Oct. 1873.]

STATE V. STOLL.

Statement of the case.

STATE V. STOLL.
If the provisions of a special charter or a special authority derived from the
legislature, can reasonably well consist with general legislation whose
words are not absolutely harmonious with it, the two are to be deemed to
stand together; one as the general law of the land, the other as the law
of the particular case.
'Where a State had publicly promised that the notes of a bank in which
it was the sole stockholder, and for whose bills it was liable, should be
taken in payment of taxes and all other debts due to the State, and so
impressed the credit of the State uponthe notes: Held, that when the
State afterwards intended to terminate this obligation (as it could do
upon reasonable notice as to after-issued bills), it was bound to do it
openly, and in language not to be misunderstood. As a doubtful or
obscure declaration would not be a proper one for the purpose, so it was
not to be imputed.
The court construes different sections of the statutes of the State of South
Carolina relating to the banks of that State, and holds-under the sixteenth section of the charter of the bank known as "1the President and
Directors of the Bank of the State of South Carolina," or more briefly
"9the Bank of the State," (wh.ch enacted "thdt the bills or notes of the said
corporation originally made payable, or which shall have become payable on
demand, in gold or silver coin, shall be receivable -inall payments for taxes
or other moneys due the State ")-that the bills of the bank, although
issued after December 20th, 1860, were a legal tender for thb payment
of taxes due the State in 1870, notwithstanding the fact that the bank at
the time of their presentation did not redeem its notes in specie, and
notwithstanding that in 1843 the legislature had enacted that "all taxes
for the service of the State shall be paid in specie ... or the notes of speciepaying banks."

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of South Carolina; the case being thus:
Between the years 1801 and 1812 the legislature of South
Carolina incorporated five banks, viz., the Bank of South
Carolina, in 1801; the State Bank of South Carolina, in 1802;
the Union Bank, and the Planters' and Mechanics' Bank, in
1810, and "the President and Directors of the Bank of
South Carofina," called for brevity THE BANK OF THE STATE
OF SOUTH CAROLINA, and sometimes THE BANK OF THE STATE,
in 1812.
The preamble to the act of incorporation of this last-

STATE V.

STOLL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

named bank set forth that "it is deemed expedient and
beneficial to the State and the citizens thereof to establish a
bank on the funds of the State, for the purpose of discounting paper and making loans for longer periods than has
heretofore been customary, and on security different from
what has hitherto been required."
The charter then declared that certain stocks, which were
designated, should constitute and form. the capital of the
said bank, and be vested in the president and directors, who
should be appointed in a manner there provided, and then
adds:
"Afd the faith of the State is hereby pledged for-the support
of the said hank, and to supply any deficiency in the funds spec ily pledged, and to make good all losses arising from such
deficiency."
The sixteenth section of the charter to this bank provided, as did also the same section in the charters of the four
other banks above referred to, as incorporated in previous
years,
"That the bills or notes of the said corporation, originally
made payable, or which shall have become payable, on demand,
in gold or silver coin, shall be receivable at the treasury of this
State, and by all tax collectors and other public officers, in all
payments for taxes or other moneys due to the State."
In 1832 the bank last named (the Bank of the State), and
of which we are principally to speak, was rechartered by an

enactment,
"That an act entitled an act to establish a bank in behalf of
and for the benefit of the State, passed on the 19th December,
finthe year of our Lord 1812, and all other acts now of force
relating to the conduct and operations of the said bank, be, and
they are hereby, re-enacted and continued of force until the 1st
May, 1856."
In 1852 the charter was again renewed in-these terms:
"That from and after the expiration of the present.charter of
iiiolina, the same hall be, and
the Bank of the State of Soqth

Oct. 1873.]*

STATE V. STOLL.

Statement of the case.

is hereby extended until the 1st of January, which will be in the
year of our Lord, 1871."
So the charters of the four other banks -were at different
times extended, and among the times of the, first two in
1822 and 1833; and of the last two in 1830; and in all these
extensions or recharters the privileges of the sixteenth section of making the notes receivable in payment of taxes,
irrespectively of the fact whether the notes were redeemable
in specie, were retained. We speak heieafter of a reeharter
of these four banks in 1852 and 1853, when these privileges
were not retained.
In 1857, in the act to raise supplies for the year commencing in Optober, 1857, it is-provided:
, That the -comptroller-general shall direct the tax collectors
and treasurers-to receive the taxes and other dues to the State
only in notes of the Bank of the State, op of specie-paying
banks of this State, or in coin of the United States."
In 1865 the legislature declared, that the branches and
agencies of the Bank-of the State of South Carolina should
be closed, and the principal bank in Charleston cease to be
a bank of issue, and continue to act as a bank of deposit
until further orders of the legislature.
In 1868 the legislature passed an act to close the operations of the bank; and by the fourth section of the act en'acted "that the sixteenth section of the act, ratified the 19th
December, 1812, entitled 'An act to establish a bank on behalf of and for the benefit of the State,' and all acts and
-parts of acts which render the bills of said corporation receivable in payment of taxes and all other dues to the State,
be, and -the same are hereby repealed."
In the year 1843, that is to say, before the date of the
second recharter above mentioned-of the Bank of the State,
the legislature passed an act "prescribing the duties of cer.tain officers ifi the collection of supplies, payment of salaries,
and for other pujrposes,'" and the first section of this act enacted,
"That-all taxes for the use and service of the State shall be

:428

STATE V. STOLL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

paid in specie, 'paper medium,'* or the notes of specie.paying
banks."

This was a permanent act. But in all previous years, with
the exception of the year 1837, of which we speak directly,
as far back atleast fis 1826, the same enactment had been
introduced into each annual appropriation bill as a special
enactment. In 1837, in which year there was a general
suspension of specie payments throughout the United States,
the enactment was:t
"That the taxes be paid in specie . . . or the bills of the
banks of the State. And if any bank shall in the opinion of
the comptroller-general become unsafe, it shall be his duty to
order their'reception to be discontinued by thd tax collectors."
So far as regards the Bank of the State of South Carolina
and the four other banks named in connection with it.
We now pass to certain banks incorporated in years of
later date.
BRetween the year 1831 and the year 1836, seven of these
banks vere incorporated by the State, tovii: the Commer.
cial Bank of Columbia, in 1831; the Merchants' Bank of
South Carolina at Che'aw, in -1833; the Bank of Charleston,
in 1834; the Bank of Caniden, in 1835; the Bank of Hamburg, in the same year; the Bank (if Georgetown, and the
Southwestern Railroad Bank, in 1836. Except in the case
of the one last named, the charters of each of these banks
contained a section in the words following, viz.:
"The bills or notes of the said corporation, originally made
payable on demand, or which shall have become payable, in
gold or silver, current coin, shall be receivable by the treasurers, tax collectors, solicitors, and other public officers, in all
payments for taxes, or'other moneys due to the State, so long
as the said bank shall pay gold and silver, current coin, for their
notds; but whenever there shall be a protest on any of the bills
This "paper medium" was a currency issued in 1785, of which it was
supposed that some remnant might be outstanding.
t- 6 South Carolina Statutes at Large, 584.

Oct. 1873.]

STATE V. STOLL.
Statement of the case.

or notes of the said bank for non-payment of specie, the comptroller.general shall be authorized, and he is hereby iequired, to
countermand the receipt of the bills and notes of the said bank
in payment of taxes or debts due to the State, unless good and
satisfactory cause shall be shown him, by the said corporation,
for protesting in a court of justice the payment thereof."
The charter of the remaining bank was to the same effect,
omitting the direction to the comptroller-general and his
action thereon.
Reverting now to the five earlier banks and to recharters
of them, the reader will remember that in the recharters of
the Bank of the State of South Carolina, made, first in
1832 and again in 1852, "the- same," the old charter of
1812-including, of course, the sixteenth section-was continued, And that the same thing was true of the four other
banks, so far as related to their recharters as made in 1822,
1830, and 1833. But while in regard to the Bank of the
State of South Carolina, no variation was made on the old
charter during the active existence of the bank, nor until the
legislature in 1868 passed the act to close its operations, the
same was not true of the other four early banks which we
have spoken of chiefly in connection with it. A variation
was finally made on them. And when, after their recharters
of 1822, 1830, and 1833, they were again rechartered in
1852 and 1853, the old sixteenthsection was not re-enacted
in regard to them, but they were made subject to the last
above-quoted restriction of the later banks; the banks,
namely, incorporated between the years 1881 and 1836.
In this condition of State legislation, one Wagner, who was
indebted to the State for taxes for the year 1870, tendered
to a certain Stoll, a collector of taxes, whose duty it was to
collect and receive such taxes, in payment of his taxes, bills
of the already mentioned "the President and Directors of
the Bank of the State of South Carolina," or as more briefly
called the Bank of the State of South Carolina, or Bank of
the State. The bills were issued after December 20th, 1860,

STATE V. STOLL.

[Sup. Ot

Statement of the case.

though not in aid of the rebellion. At .the time of their
presentation the bank did not redeem its notes in specie.
the officer refused to receive them, and Wagner presented
his petition to the court below for a mandaimus to compel
him to receive the same.
The question in the case was the nature and extent-of the
obligation of the contract which, under the ixteenth section
of the charter of the Bank of the State, arose betweef the
State of South Carolina and the holder of bills of the bank
to receive the bills in payment of taxes due the State.
It was asserted by Stoll, the tax collector, that the .sixteenth section of the charter of the bank had been repealed
or so fiir modified by the act passed in 1843-enacting* that
"all tixes for the use and service of the State shill be paid
in specie, paper medium, or the notes of specie-paing banks
of this State"-that thereafter the bills of the bankin question were not- receivable for taxes due to the State-unless
the bank was in fact at the time the taxes becamb payable a
bank that-redeemed its notes in specie; the argument being
that although by this sixteenth section of the charter of the
bank the receivability of its notes inpayment of taxes or
other ioneys due to the State, was guarantee.d, whether
they were or were not in fact redeemed in coin when presented for payment; yet that the act.of 1843 prohibited th'
receipt in payment of taxes of the notes of any bank which
did not in fact redeem its notes in specie when presented
for payment, and that the latter'act being inconsistent with
the former effected its repe.lor modification.
The Supreme Court of the State thought this argument
sound, aid adjudged that the tax collector of the State was
not bound to .eceive them, and refused the mandamus.
To reverse that judgment this writ of error was talen.
The case was twice argued: fi'st at the last term, and now,
-again, much more fully at this.
Messrs. T. W. ,-Boyce, A. G. 1Jlagrath, and B. B. Curtis, for
t.Jhamberlain,contra.
the plaintiff in error; Mr.-D. H.
* See Aupra, pp. 427-8. -

Oct 1873.]

STATE V. STOLL.
Opinion of the court.

.Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the bourt.
It is evident from a comparison of the different statutes
incoi'porating the banks-Ist, that as to all the banks, the
statutory description of their notes to be received in payment
of taxes, referred to the form of the notes, viz., those expressed upon their face to be payable in gold or silver, and,
which are originally or by lapse of time had become payable
on demand, and not to the fact that specie wa%actually paid
when the notes were presented for payment; anl 2dly, that
the legislature intended to provide that a different rule
should be applied to the two classes of banks. In the case
of the banks chartered between 1801 and 1812, it was simply
provided that their bills should be received inpayment of
taxes and other monkeys due to the State. In the case of
those chartered between the years 1881 and 1886, it was
provided that their bills should be thus receivable so long
only as they should pay gold and silver, current coin, for
their notes. The two classes of banks were thus confessedly
placed upon a different basis, and so remained when the act
of 1843 was passect.
To justify this court in holding that' the act passed in that
year repealed or modified the sixteenth section of the charter
of the bank in question, it must appear that the later provision is certainly and clearly in hostility to the former. If,
by any reasonable construction, the two statutes can stand.
together, they must so stand. If harmony is impossible, and
only in that event, the former law is repealed in part or
wholly, as the case may be.* The principle is thus ex-pressed in Daviess v. Fairbairh :t "If a subsequent statute be
not repugnant in all of its provisions to a prior one, yet if
the latter statute clearly intend to prescribe the only rule
which shall govern, it repeals the prior one."
Is it clear and certain that the act of 1843 was intended
to prescribe the only rule to govern the receivability of bank
Dwarris on Statutes, 530; Sedgwick on Statutes, 126; United States v.
Tynen, 11 Wallace, 88, 92; Henderson's Tobacco, 11 1b. 657.
t 8 Howard, 636, 643.

STATE V. STOLL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

notes, and that a different rule was not intended to be applied to the banks chartered before 1812, and those chartered after 1831? Were not the words "the specie-paying
banks," in the act of 1843, intended as a description of' the
banks then in existence, and which then actually paid specie
shall
on their. notes, as if the act had said "all taxes ..
be paid in specie,
. or the -notes of the banks of the
State.now paying speqie in conformity with their charter, to
wit: the notes of the Bank of the State of South Carolina,
the Union Bank, &c.?"
The statute-book shows that for many years prior to 1843,
at each successive session, the.legislature passed an annual
supply bill, in which was regularly re-enacted the provision,
that the taxes ,due to the-State for that year should be paid
in.specie, paper, medium (a currency now at an end), or in
the notes of speciepaying banks. This was a temporary
and annual act, and,was enacted yearly at least as early as
the year 1826, until and including the year 1842, with the
exception of the year 1837. In the year 1837, it is said the
banks were in a state of suspension, and the legislature enacted that the taxes should "be paid in specie, ... or the
bills of the banks of the State, and if any bank shall, in the
opinion of the comptroller-general, become unsafe, so that
its bills ought not to be received at the treasury, it shall be
his duty to order their reception to be discontinued by the
tax collectors."
In the year 1843 the provision above recited and so fr'equently adopted was re-enacted as a part of the general law
of thle State, and it was no longer embraced in the annual
supply bill.
Whether contained fin
the annual supply bills or in the
more durable form of the act of 1843, we ar.e satisfied that
that act was not in'tended by the legislature as a repeal of
the sixteenth section of the act incorporating the Bank of
the State of South Carolina.
To sustain this view, we refer to the acts extending the
charter of the bank in question. It was chartered in the
year 1812. Its charter expired in the year 1832, and was in

Oct. 1873.]

STATE V. SrOLL.
Opinion of the court.

that year extended for a further term of twenty years. In
the year previous, in the succeeding year, and in this same
year, the legislature enacted the provision that" taxes should
be paid in specie, paper medium, or the notes of the speciepaying banks of the State." It, Iowever, re-enacted in its
extended charter the provision that the notes of the Bank
of the State should be receivable in payment of taxes, if
payable in form in specie and on demand.
A gain, in the year 1852, nine years after the passage of
the act of 1843, the legislature for the second time extended
the charter of this bank, including the original sixteenth
section. If there be a conflict between these statutes, it
might well be argued that the act of 1852 re-enacting the
sixteenth section operated as a repeal of the law of 1843, so
far as it related to this bank. Whether this be the case, or
whether the two ar- to be continual as both continuing in
force and as being applicable to different subjects, the result
is the same, that the sixteenth section remains in force.
This view is further illustrated by the fact that the four
other banks whose charters were granted prior to 1812, were
extended without any alteration of their charters. Notwithstanding the yearly enactment that taxes should be collected
in gold and silver, or the notes of specie-paying banks, the
charters of the State Bank and of the Bank of South Carolina were extended in the year 1822, and those of the Union
Bank and of the Planters' and Mechanics' Bank, in the year
1830, and again in 1833 the charters of the State Bank and
the Bank of South Carolina we:;e further extended; and in
each instance the provision was retained making the notes
receivable in payment of taxes without reference to the fact
that their notes should be redeemed in specie. It is difficult
to believe that the legislature intended the act of 1843 to act
as a repeal or modification of these laws, some passed prior
and some subsequent to that date.
It is eyident, again, that the legislature of South Carolina,
when they intended that the bills of non-specie-paying banks
should not be received in payment of taxes, used language
perfectly adapted to that purpose, and indicated the process
VOL. XVIL

28

STATE V. STOLL[

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

by which it would easily, but certainly, be accomplished.
Thus, in the cbarters of the banks incorporated between
the years 1831 and 1836, is found the provision already
quoted,.viz. : '.' That 'the bills or notes of said corporation,

originally made payable on demand, or which shall have
become payable, in gold or silver, current coin, shall be
receivable by the treasurers, tax collectors, solicitors, and
other ,public officers, in all payments for taxes or. other
moneys due to the State, so long as said hank shall pay gold
'and silver, current coin, for their notes. But whenever
there shall be a protest on any of the bills or notes of said
bank,. for non-payment in specie, the comptroller-general
shall be authorized, and is hereby required, to countermand
t he receipts of the bills and notes of the bank, in payment
of taxes and debts due to the State, unless good and satisfactory cause shall be shown him, by the said corporation,
for ,contesting in a court of justice the payment thereof."
It is thus expressly enacted that its bills shall be receivable
for taxbs so lo)g only as the said bank shall pay gold or silver current coin for its notes. A precise definition is given
of what constitutes a failure so to pay, to wit, a protest for
non-payment in specie of its notes or bills, and a mode is
provided of precluding their further reception, to wit, the
action of the comptroller-gen eral.
Again, wheni the charters of the four .early banks, the
associates of the Bank of the State, in date as well as in the
terms of their charter, were last extended, in 1852 and 1853,
they were subjected to the same restrictions as the other
banks mentioned. Their recharter was expressly made subject to the condition that their notes should be received in
payment of taxes so long only as the banks should pay gold
and silver current coin for their notes.
The Bank of the State was the property of the State. The
State was its only stockholder, and its faith and credit stood
publicly pledged for the payment of its notes. In the case
of that bank all the specificationis are absent. The legislature intentionally omitted to say that its bills should not be
receivable for taxes when it failed to redeem them in specie.

Oct. 1873.]

STATE V. STOLL.

Opinion of the court.

It omitted to furnish the test of non-specie-payment, a protest, and omitted to authorize the comptroller-general to
forbid their reception.
It is scarcely credible, under these circumstances, that the
legislature intended the Bank of the State to stand upon the
same plane with the other banks. We do not think it was
so intended or that such is the legal effect of the statutes we"
have been considering.
The absence, in the case of the Bank of the State, of the
necessary machinery to prevent the reception of its notes if
it ceased to be a specie-paying bank, affords a strong argument in support of this view. The notes were intended to
be received by the hundreds of tax collectors throughout the
State, a class of me, not usually qualified to decide nice
legal questions, and not elected with a view to their capacity
to make such decisions. Yet the question of whether a
bank was a specie-paying bank or a non-specie-paying bank
rested in the judgment and decision of the collector. If one
collector held as a matter of law that a bank which paid
specie on it,. bills but refused to pay specie on its deposits
was a specie-paying bank, be could receive its notes in payment of taxes. If the collector in an adjoining district held
that the payment of its deposits was a more important element than the redemption of its notes in specie, and that
this afforded the test of a spbcie-paying bank, the notes
could be refused by him. Great and inevitable confusion
'would result. That such confusion was anticipated, and
that it was intended to be avoided, is evident from the clear,
detailed, and precise provisions applied to those banks where
the actual paymen-t of specie by them was intended to be
required. These details not being provided for the Bank
,of -the State, a strong argument arises that the actual payment of spe(ie was not intended to be required 6f that bank.
That the principle of implied repeal or modification does
not apply to the charter of the Bank of the State we are
considering is evident also from two other considerations:
1. The State of South Carolina had publicly undertaken and
promised that the notes of this bank should be taken in pay-

STATE V. STOLP.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ment of taxes and all other debts due to the State. It impressed the credit of the State upon the npotes. Every man,
who held and received them had a right to rely upon this
promise.' When the State intended to terminate this obligation, as it has been held it could do upon reasonable
notice and as to after-issued bills, it was bound to do it
openly, intelligibly, and in language not to be misunder-,
stood. As a doubtful or obscure declaration would not be
justifiable, so it is not to be imputed. 2. The provisions
of a special charter or a special authority derived from the
legislature are not affected by general legislation on the subject. The two are to be deemed to stand together; one as
the general law of the land, the other as the law of the particular case.*
In September, 1868, an act Was passed by the legislature
of South Carolina to close the operations of this bank. In
the fourth section it was enacted that the original act, '1aud
all acts and parts of acts, which render the bills of said corporation receivable in payment of taxes and all other debts
due to the State, be, and the same are hereby, repealed."
The sixteenth section was the act, the extension of 1832 and
the extension of 1852 were "the parts of acts" which rendered its bills keceivable in payment of taxes. This was the
explicit and intelligible declaration to which the public was
entitled to, and the legislature intended to terminate the receivability of its notes in payment of taxes or debts due to
the State- At this time, and not before, y*as the sixteenth
section of its charter actually and legally repealed.
Much that is difficult in-the consideration of the case of
this bank is explained by the fict that the State itself was
its sole stockholder, receiving all the benefits of its lills
issued, and responsible for all its losses and the payment of
its bills.
Upon the whole case we are clear that the judgment be* See Dillon on Municipal Corporations,
effect are collected.

54, where many cases to this

