Oct. 1873.]

PUBLIC WORKS V. COLUMBIA COLLEGE.

521

Statement of the case.

BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS V. COLUMBIA COLLEGE ET AL.
1. A personal judgment, rendered in one State against several parties jointly,
upon service of process on some of them, or their voluntary appearance,
and upon publication against the others, is not evidence outside of the
State where rendered of any personal liability to tha plaintiff of the
parties proceeded against by publication.
2. The clause of the Federal Constitution which requires full faith and credit
to be given in each State to the records and judicial proceedings of every
other State;, applies to the records and proceedings pf courts only so far
as they havejurisdiction. Wherever they want jurisdiction the records
are not entitled to credit.
3. N~o greater effect can be given to any judgment of a court of one State in
another State than is given to it in the State where rendered. So held
in a case where a party, relying upon a decree of an inferior State court,
objected to the character 'given to the decree as interlocutory by the
highest appellate court of that State, and insisted that it should be
treated as a final decree.
4. A court of equity will not exercise its jurisdiction to reach the property
of a debtor applicable to the payment of his debts, unless the debt be
clear and undisputed, and there exist some special circumstances requiring the interposition of the court to obtain possession of, and apply the
property.
5. This rule should be insisted upon with rigor whenever the property sought
to be reacled constitutes assets of a deceased debtor, which have already'
been subjected to administration and distribution ; and some satisfactory
excuse should be given for the failure of the creditor to present his claim,
in the mode prescribed by law, to the representative of the estate, before
distribution.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Co-

lumbia.
This was a suit in equity to reach property belonging to
the estate of a deceased debtor, and have it applied to the
demand of creditors, and particularly funds distributed by
the exccutboi of the estate of the deceased to legatees.
The facts of the case were as follows :
In July, 1853, the firm of Selden, Withers & Co., which
was engaged in the business of banking in the city of Wash•ington, entered into a contract with the Board of Public
Works of Virginia, to sell on its account certain bonds of

522

PUBLIC WORKS V. COLUMBIA COLLEGE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

the State of Virginia, which bad been issued for public improvements. In pursuance of this contract, the firm received
from the complainnnt at different times bonds of the State
amounting to over $4,000,000. In November, 1854, the firm
suspended payment, being jin insolvent circumstances, and
made an assignment of its partnership. assets to trustees for
the benefit of its creditors. It was at the time indebted in
a. large amount to the complainant for the proceeds of bonds
sold and not accounted for. The firm consisted of five partners, named Selden, Withers, Latham, Bayne, and Whiting;
the two former having been of' Alexandria, Virginia, the
others mostly of Washington.
In December following, the said board instituted ait
action in the Supreme Court of the State of New York,
against the members of the firm, to compel them to account
for bonds deposited with them, and to pay the proceeds
received from their sale. In this action personal service of
process was made upon two of the partners, Latham and
Bayne. Whiting, another partner, voluntarily appeared by
attorney. The other two partners, Selden and Witlers,
were not personally served, and (lid not appear in the action.
Being non-residents of the State, only a constructive service
by publication was made upon them. The ,nswer of Bayne,
which was filed in 1856, alleged various set-offs, and (referring to the gqneral assignment of the partnership in 1854,
and to that of Withers in 1855) set up for a further and
separate defence, that since the filing of the bill there had
been assigned to the said Board of Public Works, or to persons for it, bonds, real estate, and other property (which it
alleged that the said boAtd, had accepted and received), to an
amount sufficient to extinguish and satisfy the balance. The
action proceeded on the pleadings to judgmeht,-which was
rendered in March, 1857;-ainst all the partners for upwards
of $500,000, including the allowance to the attorneys and
costs.
In January, 1855, the defendant Withers,-professing d desire, so far as'he was able, to furnish sufficient security out
of his private'means for any balance of the-debt-of the firm

Oct. 1873.]

PUBLIC- WORKS V. COLUMBIA COLLEGE.

523

Statement of the case.

that might remain unsatisfied from the partnership assets,
conveyed to Bocock, the Attorney-General of Virginia, and
one Wylie, a resident of that State, in trust for that purpose,
certain real property situated in Alexandria, Virginia, and
in St.-Louis, Missouri, and certain shares in the Cumberland
Coal Company. The nominal value of the propri'ty thus
conveyed exceeded $250,000.
In September, 1858, the said board instituted a suit in
equity in the Circuit Court of Alexandria County, in Virginia, against the members of the firm, their assignees, and
the trustees, Bocock and Wylie, to obtain a decree against
all the partners for the amount due from them, and for the
sale of the property conveyed by Withers to Bocock and
Wylie, and the application of the proceeds to the payment.
of the debt. In this suit two of the partners, Selden and
Withers, were personally served with process; the other
partners being non-residents of Virgidiia, were proceeded
against by publication. Withers filed an answer, setting
up, among other things, the recovery by the complainant of
the judgment in the New York Supreme Court against his
copartners upon the same causes of action, insisting that
those causes were merged in that judgment; and also that
,the partfiership assets in the hands of the assignees exceeded
in amount the indebtedness of the firm, and that his individual property conveyed to the trustees, Bocock and Wylie,
could not be subjected to sale until the trusts of the deed to
the assignees were fully executed. This defence does not
appear to have made much impression upon the Circuit
Court, for on the same day on which the answer was filed,
it rendered its decree that the complainants recover against'
all the partners, as well against those brought in by publication as those personally served, the sum of $518,615; this
sum having been ascertained and reported as due from them
by a commissioner previously appointed in the case. The
decree, which was made June 1st, 1860, was accompanied
by a direction that unless the amount was paid before the 1st
of December following, the property conveyed by Withers
to the trustees, Bocock and Wylie, should be sold and the

524

PUBLIC WORKS V. COLUMBIA COLLEGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

proceeds applied thereon; and commissioners were designated to make such sale.
From this decree Withers filed a petition to the Supreme
Court for an appeal. But the appeal was denied, "the court
being of opinion that the decree being interlocutory, no execution can issue without the order of court; and deeming
it most proper that the case should be proceeded in further
'in the court below before an appeal is allowed."
. In the year 1860, Withers removed his residence from
Alexandria, in Virginia, to the District of Columbia, and in
November, 1861, died there, leaving a will, which was insufficient to pass. real property, but was sufficient to pass
personal estate. The will was admitted to probate in the
Orphans' Court of the district, and letters testamentary were
issued thereon to English, the only one of the executors
named in the will who qualified.
Under this will there were several legatees, among whom
were the President of Columbia College (in trust for the
college), Elizabeth Madden and Attie Gulick.
In 1865 the legatees filed a bill in the Supreme Court of
the District to compel the executor to account-for and distribute the personal estate in his hands. The executor appeared and answered, and the cause was referred to an auditor
to take an account of 'the personal property of the testator,
and of the debts against the "estate,and of the balance distributable to the legatees and. next of kin. The auditor
having by advertisement called on persons having claims
against the estate 'to present them to him, made a report
accordingly, reporting distribution among the legatees and
next of kin. The report was confirmed, and in April, 1866,
the Board of Public Works of Viiginia not having in any
way appeared or made any claim before the auditor, or in
the Orphans'. Court of the Distriit of Columbia (a tribunal
having jurisdiction over the estat'es of decedents in the District), a decr ee'was entered directing distribution, which was
accordingly made.
The will, as already state4;.was. insufficient to pass real
property, and an interest in such -piopery-situated in the

Oct. 1873.]

PUBLIc WORKS V. COLUMfIA COLLEGE.

525

Statement of the case,

District..belonging to the deceased, vested, accordingly, in
his heirs.
In 1856 the deceased had conveyed a parcel of land, situated in the District, to Columbia College for the nominal
consideration of $18,000.
In this state of things the Board of Public Works -of
Virginia filed, in July, 1867, the present bill against the
executor of Withers, his heirs at law, and legatees, among
whom were Columbia College, Madden, and Gulick, to
reach the real property of the deceased which did not pass
under the will, but which vested in his heirs; to set aside
the deed to the college, on the alleged ground that it was
made ivithout consideration, whilst the deceased was insolvent, with intent to defraud the complainant; to charge the
executor for the assts which came into his hands, and which
he distributed to the legatees under the decree of the Su-'preme Court of the District, on the ground thai he was informed of the debt to the complainant, and failed to bring
it to the notice of the court directing the, distribution, and
to compel the legatees to refund the amounts received by
them.
Columbia College, Madden, and Gulick (these last two
with their husbands) alone answered the bill. In their answers they negatived its material allegations and relied upon
the non-joinder of the" surviving partners of Withers, and
the statute of limitations. They also contended that the
demand against Withers was merged in, and extinguished
by, the judgment of the Supreme Court of New York; that
the decree of the court of Virginia was interlocutory and
not final, and that the distribution under the decree of the
Supreme Court of the District afforded a complete protection to the executor and .legatees.
A replication was filed to the answers, and the ease was
heard upon the pleadings without any proofs. The court
dismissed the bill without prejudice, and the complainant
appealed.
The defendants, in their answer, disclaimed any knowledge or information touching the alleged interest of the

526

PUBLIC WORKS V. COLUMBIA OOLLEGE;

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

deceased in real property in the Districtwhich did not pass
under his will, and, by consent of parties, a decree was entered for its sale. The answer of Columbia College showed
that the deed to that institution, executed by the deceased
in 1856, was made in part payment of a bond given as far
back as 1852, and which became payable in July, 1853, before the suspension of Selden, Withers & Co., and before
that firm was in failing circumstances; and the attempt to
reach the property appeared to have been abandoned by the
complainant. On the argument no decree was asked respecting it, nor was any allusion made to it. And from the
failure to press the charge made against the executor personally, and to present any evidence of neglect of duty on
his part, that ground of relief would also appear to have
been abandoned. In his printed argument in this court the
counsel of the complainant stated, that the only question
really controverted and decided in the court below was the
liability of the above legatees to refund the amounts received
by them to be applied on the demand of the complainant.
And that question was the only one for determination on
this appeal.
Mr. W. S. Cox,for the appellant,argued that the case brought
in 1854 in the Supreme Court of New York was, of course,
founded on the existence of a debt due by Selden, Withers
& Co. to the Board of Public Works of Virginia; that
except on pleadings showing it, no such judgment as was
giveiy could have been given; that the decree of the Circuit
Court of Alexandria County, Virginia, made in 1860, was
equally conclusive; that it terminated in a decree ascertaining a clear balance, and decreeing unconditionally that the
board recover of all the partners the sum of $513,615; that
such a decreewas a final decree according to the Virginia
decisions,* and must be treated as conclusive in other States.;t
Harvey v. Branston, I Leigh, 1.08; .Thorntons v. Fitzhugh, 4ia, 209;
Dunbar's Executors v. Woodcock', 10 Id. 629.
t-" Mills v. Duryee, 7 Crancn,:481.

Oct. 1878.]

PUBLIC WORKS V. COLUM*IA COLLEGE.

527

Opinion of the court.

Assuming thus, he argued fu'ther that it was a settled
doctrine'of equity that the creditois of a deceased person
had a right to pursue assets in the hands- of legatees, and
this law was recognized in ihis court,* as generally elsewhere.
Mr. TV. .D. Davidge, contra, for Columbia College, argued
that independent of numerous technical objections, which
he specified,-including among them and prominently the
statute of limitations, and non-joinder of the-s.urviving partners of Withers,-that neglect-of the complainant to give
notice to the executor of Withers, or to notify its claim to
the auditor when about finally to distribute the fund, alone
required the dismissal of the bill below, and the affirmance
of the decree which dismissed it.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the facts of the case,
delivered the opinion of the court as follows:
As preliminary to the inquiry whether any grounds aredisclosed in the case for the ifiterposition of a court of equity,
the existence of an undisputed debt by the deceased must
appear. The existence of such a debt is affirmed upon the
admission of the pleadings of the indebtedness, in 1854 and
1855, of the firm of Selden, Withers & Co., and upon the
decree of.the Circuit O6urt of Virginia, in June, 1860.
Whether the indebtedness of that firm, was merged in the
judgment of the Supreme Court of New York, and the
personal claim against Withers was thus extinguished, as
contended by counsel, it is unnecessary to determine. It is
sufficient for the disposition of this case that the judgment
is not evidence of any personal liability of Withers outside
ofNew York. It was rendered in that State without service
of pi'ocess upon him, or his appearance in the action. Personal judgments thus rendered have no operation out of
the limits of the State where rendered. Their effects are
merely local. Out of the State they are nullities, not bind*

Riddle v. Mandeville & Jameson, 5 Cranch, 322.

528

PUBLIC WORKS V. COLUMBIA COLLEGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ing upon the non-resident defendant, nor establishing any
.claim against him. 'Such is the settled law of this country,
asserted iurepeated adjudications of this court and of the
State courts.
The judgment in New York, it is true, is a joint judgment
against all the partners, against those summoned by publication as well as those who were served with process or
appeared, but this joint character cannot affect the question
of its validity as respects those not served. The clause of
the Federal Constitution which requires full faith and credit
to be given in each State to the records and judicial proceedings of every other State, applies to the records and
proceedings of cou/ts only so far as they have jurisdiction.

Wherever they want jurisdiction the records are bot entitled
to credit.*
The indebtedness of the firm of Selden, Withers & Co.,
to the complainant in 1854 is, it is true, admitted by the
pleadings, but the admission is accompanied with such statements as to the assignment of the partnership property, and
transfer of individual property of Withers for the payment
of the indebtedness, and the disposition.aud use of such
property, as to render it a matter of doubt whether, upon
an accounting, any amount would remain due to the complainant. The existence of any present indebtedness is
denied, and the ease was brought to a hearing on the
pleadings without any evidence.t
Is the claim of the complainant against Withers established by the decree of the Circuit Court of Virginia so as
to authorize the present bill ? The suit in- this latter court
was brought against all the partners, but personal. service
was made only upon two of them, Withers and Selden, and
the case proceeded against the others upn publication of
citation. Withers, as already stated, insisted in his ans'wer,
amono other things, upon the merger of the causes of action
in the Newv York judgment;: aud that his individual prop*'D'Arby v. Ketchurn, 11 Howard, 174; Bates v. Delavan, 5 Paige, 305;
Story on Conflict of" ILaws, 546.
f- Young v. Grundy, 6 Cranch, 51.

Oct. 1873.]

PUBLIC WORKS V. COLUMBIA COLLEGE.

529

Opinion of the court.

erty conveyed to trustees could not be subjected to sale until
the trusts in the deed of assignment were executed; but the
Circuit Court, without appearing to attach any weight to
this defence, immediately rendered its decree against all the
partners. Withers desired to appeal from this decree, but
the Court of Appeals denied his application for that purpose,
on the ground that the decree was merely interlocutory and
not final, declaring, in its order, that it deemed it " most
proper that the case should be proceeded in further" before
an appeal was allowed. One of the principal objects of the
suit was to obtain a sale of the property conveyed by him to
trustees, and the application of the proceeds to the debt
of the firm of Selden,Withers & Co. to thQ complainant.
The amount of individual property thus conveyed exceeded
in nominal value, as already stated, $250,000, and this was
to be applied only to cover a deficiency remaining after the
application to that debt oF a portion of the partnership assets
assigned in 1854. The Court of Appeals may have considered that the decree of the Circuit Court, as a personal judgment, was not to be treated as final, but only as interlocutory, until the deficiency mentioned was determined, and
the property held as security for its payment had been sold
and applied. At any rate, the complainant, relying upon
the decree of the court as evidence of his demand against
*Withers,invoking for it full faith and credit under the clause
of the Constitution, cannot object to the character which the
highest.court of Virginia has given to it, or insist that it is
entitled to any othe-r consideration or weight. No greater
effect can be giveli to any judgment of a court of one State
in another State than is given to it in the State where rendered. Any other rule would contravene the policy of the
provisions of the Constitution and laws of the United States
on that subject.*
It' the decree was interlocutory, it is to be treated as only
fixing provisionally the indebtedness to the complainant of
the firm of Selden,Withers & Co., and, of course, the indiSuydam v. Barber, 18 New York, 468.
VOL. xvir.

84

580

PUBLIC WoRiNS V. OOLUMBIA COL.LEGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

vidual liability of Withers. The adjudicati6o did not prevent a re-examination of-the question of his liability, if an
examination of the merits of his defence were ever made,
or any subsequent- modification of the terms of the interlocutory decree. The ivhole subject remained open, under the
control of the court, and at the final hearing the provisions
ofAthe decree might have been enlarged or restricted, or
otherwise modified.
- It does not appear from the bill, or the record annexed,"
whether any proceedings for the enforcement of the interlocutory decree were subsequently taken; whether the property in Virginia or in Missouri, or any part of such property,
was ever sold; or, if a sale was made, whether any of the
proceeds were applied to the extinguishment of the amount
adjudged due. If any inference upon this head can be drawn
from the allegation of the bill -that the amount remains
wholly unsatisfied, it is that n6 such proceedings were ever
taken.
The jurisdiction of a court of equity to reach the property
of a debtor justly applicable to the payment of his debts,
even when there is no specific lien on the property, is undoubt'ed. It is a very ancient jurisdiction, but for its exercise the debt must be clear and undisputed and there must
exist some special circumstances requiripg the interposition
of the court to obtain possession of, and apply the property.
Unless the suit relate to the estate of a deceased person, the
debt must be established by some judicial proceeding, and
it must generally be shown that legal means for its collection have been exhausted.

In'all cases, we believe property

pledged or conveyed for the payment of the debt must be
first applied.
The rule requiring the eiistence of special circumstances
bringing the case under some recognized head of equity
jurisdiction, should not only be insisted upon with 'rigor
whenever the property. sought to be reached constitutes, as
here, assets of a deceased debtor, which have already been
subjected to administration and -distribution; but some satisfactory excuse should be given for the failure of the cred-

Oct. 1873.]

PUBLIC WORKS V. COLUMBIA COLLEGE.

531

Opinion of the court.

itor to present his claim, in the mode prescribed by law, to
the representative of the estate, before distribution.*
In England, courts of chancery took jurisdiction of bills
against executors and administrators, for discovery and account of assets, and to reach property' applicable to the payment of the debts of deceased persons, not merely from their
general authority over trustees and trusts, but from the imperfect atnd defective power of the ecclesiastical courts. It
was sufficieut that a debt existed against the estate of a
decedent, and that there was property which should be
applied to its payment, to justify the interposition of the
court; but when a distribution of the fund had been made,
another creditor could not ask for a return of the moneys
from the distributees or for a proportional part, if he had
received notice of the original proceeding, and had been
guilty of laches or unreasonable neglect.t
In this country, there are special courts established in all
the States, having jurisdiction over estates of deceased persons, called probate courts, orphans' courts, or surrogate
courts, possessing, with respect to personal assets, nearly all
the powers formerly exercised by the court of chancery and
the ecclesiastical courts in England. They are authorized to
collect the assets of the deceased, to allow claims, to direct
their payment and the distribution of the property to legatees
or other parties entitled,and generally to do everything essential to the final settlement of the alfairs of the deceased, and
the claims of creditors against his estate. There is a special
court of this kind in this District, called the Orphans' Court,
which was competent to allow the complainants' demand,
but the demand was never presented to it for allowance.
That court could have directed the application of the assets
of the estate, if the demand had been allowed, or, if rejected,
had been established by legal proceedings. No application
was made for its aid, nor was the demand brought to the
attention of the Supreme Court of the District when the
4*Williams v. Giobes, 17 Howard, 239, 254, 255; Pharis v. Leachman,
20 Alabama, 662.
t Sawyer v. Birchmore, 1 Keen, 391.

REA v. MfSSoURL

[Sup.

at.

Syllabus.

estate was before it for settlement, 'although publication was.
made by the auditor for the presentatiou of claims. No explanation is made or attempted of this neglect, and the only
grounds disclosed by the bill for relief are-fully met by the
answe:s, and re not ustained by any-proof.
We are of opinion, for the reasons stated, that the decree
of the court below, dismissing the bill, was correct; and it
is unnecessary to consider the objections to it founded upon
the non-joinder of thesarviving partners of Withers, and
the statute of limitations.
DECREE APFIRMIED.

REA v. MIssoURI.
1. Although a -greater latitude is allowable in the cross-examination of a
party who places himself on the stand, than in that of other witnesses,
still, where the cross-examinatioil'is directed to inatterg not inquired
about in theprincipal examination its course and extent are very largely
subject to the control of the court in the exercise of a sound discretion ;
and the exercise of that discretion is not reviewable on a writ of error.
2. Where A. bad levied on certain goods as owned by B., which 0. claimed,
the allegation of A. being that there had been collusion between'B. and
0 , and that 0. was a mere inqtrument of B:, he!d on a suit by C. against
A. for damages-(the jury having been charged by the circuit judgein
a way not excepted to, and coming in for additional instructions and.
being again charged by the district judge, who now happened to be on
the bench)1st. That where the manifest tendency of the additional instructions, contrary to that of the original vharge, was to give the jury the impression
that evidence was required of a ehdracter more direct and positive than
that of facts and circumstances tending to the conclusion of fraud, and
such as might reasonably induce the jury tb believe that C. held 'the
property but in trust for B., the additional instructions were erroneous.
.Andfurther, that it would not be inferred by this courtthat the jury had.
taken them in connection with the qualifications made in the original
charge.
2d. That any statements made by.B. in the absence of 0., which were afterwards assented to by the latter or were part of the res gesia, were evidence in the suit.

