Oct. 1873.]

CARPENTER V. UNITED STATES.4

.489

Statement of the case.

CARPENTER V. UNITED STATES.
One who enters into possession of land in virtue of an agreement or understanding that he is to b&a purchaser of it, cannot be held liable for use
and occupation if the purchase be actually concluded.
APPEAL from the Court of Claims; the.case as found b y
that court having been thus:
In July, 1863, Major Hunt, of the corps of engineers, entered into negotiations with one Carpenter, owner of an
island in Narragansett Bay, for the purchase of it by the
United States for military uses; and a parol contract for the
purchase and sale was then formally concluded; the terms
being approved by the See-retary of War. The price, as
stipulated, was $21,000. It.August following, the officers
of the government, with the consent of Carpenter, entered
into possession of the island and began to prepare for fortifying it. The possession then taken they h ave ever since retained.
Upon examination, however, it was found and so reported
by the Attorney-General, that under an act of May 1st,
1820,* an *executive department had by law no authority to
purchase land on account of the government. Consequently
the verbal arrangement wifh Carpenter remained unconsummated, until 1866. On the 12th of June, of that year,
Congress made an appropriation for the purchase of sites
then occupied, and proposed to be occupied for sea-coast defence, and on the 7th of August next following, the purchase-money of the island ($21,000) was paid to Carpenter,
and accepted 1-y him without any claim forinterest or rents, so far
as it appeared, and he delivered a deed for the property to the
United States. In this state of things Carpenter now, December 7th, 1867, filed a petition in the Court of Claims,
claiming compensation from the United States for the use
and occupation of the island from the time the United States
officers, with his consent, took possession, after the verbal
* 3 Stat. at Large, 568.

CARPENTER V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellan

arrangement to purchase, until the deed was made and the
purchase-money was paid, that is, from August, 1863, to
August, 1866.
The questi6n was whether, upon the case stated, an action
for use and occupation could be sustained.
The Court of Claims, as appeared by its opinion,* considered that the law (i. e., the statute of 11 George II, chapter 19, ยง 14) which gives the action for use and occupation
always required that some contract of demise should subsist;
in other words, that the relation of landlord and tenant must
be established ;t that there was no such relationship here.
That independently of this the claim rested on an implied
contract, but that where there was an express contract to
buy, a contract to pay rent could not arise by mere inference.
Relying on these views, ind citing the English case of Kfirland v. Piounsetj it accordingly decreed a dismissal of the
petition. From that decree the claimant appealed.
Messrs. .1. IV. Carlisle and . D. McPherson,for the appellant:
The right lo sue for use and occupation does not rest, as
the court below assumed, on the statute of-11 George I.
It existed previously; though until the passing of the statute
mentioned thq, plaintiff was nonsuited, if a demise was
proved.ยง Use and occupation may well. lie without a demise.
* 6 Court of Claims, 162.

- It having been held in Brett v. Read (1 W. Jones, 329.) that where there
had been an actual lease, action for use and occupation would not lie, the
statute of 11 George II, chapter 19, 14, enacted that"It should be lawful for a landlordi where the agreement was not by deed. to
recover a reasonable satisfaction for the lands, tenements, or hereditamentg held or
occupied by the defendant, in an action on the case for the use and occupation of
what was so held or enjoyed; and if, on the trial of such action, amy parol demise,.or
any agreement (not being by deed) whereon a certain rent was reserved, should appear, the plaintiff in s6ch action should not therefoie be nonsaited, but might make
use th'ereof as an evidence of the quantumn of damages to be recoverd."-RFp.
2 Taunton, 145.Churchward v. Ford' 2 Hurlstone & Nor-man, 448,

Oct. 1873.]

CARPENTER V. UNITED STATES.
Argument tor the appellant.

The English case of Kirtland v. Pounsett, cited by the
Court of Claims, does not apply. The report says:
"Mansfield, C. S., at firlst inclined to think the action might
be supported; for that if a man had contracted for the purchase
of an estate of the annual value of many thousand pounds, and
had through the imprudence of the vendor been permitted to
take possession, which he might possibly retain for several
years pending the discussion of the title in a court of equity, it
would be strange if the purchaser could bold possession and receive the profits during all that time without paying any consideration for it to the vendor. But upon the ground that during
all the defendant's occupation of the- prenhises the plaintiff had been
in possession of the purchase-money, of which he had made or might
have made interest, the Chief Justice directed a nonsuit, with liberty
to move to set it aside."
On the motion to set aside the Chief Justice said he
doubted extremely whether in any case the plaintiff could
recovopr. If no money had been paid, he said, it might perhaps be a different question, but if one paid his money and
took possession, he asked:
"Is it not just that one party should take back his money
and the other take back his house ?"
On the other band, Roward v. Shaw, in the English Exchequer,* is in our favor. 'There the defendant had entered
into possession under a valid contract to purchase, and deposited part of the price. He afterward took advantage of
some dispute to demand back his deposit, and received part,
but not receiving the whole kept possession, until an action
of ejectment was brought against him, when he surrendered
the premises. The vendor then sued for use and occupation.
At thv, trial the point was made by the defendaut that the
action could not be maintained, because the relati6n of land-'
lord and tenant had never existed; and the Chief Baron being
of that opinion, nonsuited the plaintiff Upon rule being
moved 'for, to set aside the nonsuit and enter a verdict, the
* 8 Meeson & Welsby, 118.

492

CARPENTER V.

"UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

Chief Baron said he had entertained doubts, but was satisfied
the plaintiff ought to recover; that "while the defendant
occupied under a valid contract for the sale of the property
he could not be considered as a tenant." He goes on:
"But what is the relation of the parties when the contract
of sale has gone off? -The defendant remains in possession with
the consent of tile landlord, but without ,iny title to or contract
to purchase the land. Under these circumstances he is a tenant
at will, and if the occupation is beneficial to him, that is sufficient to imply a contract to pay a reasonabe sum by way of
compensation for such occupation."
Baron Parke was of the same opinion.
said on the point:

Baron Alderson

"While the defendant was in possession under this contract
for sale, he was a tenant at will under a distinct stipulationthat
he should be rent free, therefore for that term no action for use
and occupation can be brought against him, but when that contract is at an end, he is a tenant at will simply: thereforefrom
that time he is to pay for occupation."
Baron Rolfe concurred; and the rule was made absolute.
The Court of Claims, in its"opinion, assumes that the defendants entered under "a contract" of purchase, and that
this "contract" was finally consummated when the "stat u tory obstacles" were removed.
Carpenter offered to
But there was no such "contract."
sell the land, but there was no one to buy; no one to agree
to buy. Carpenter never was bound to convey, for there
was no one to whom he could be bound. The contract was
not "consummated" in 1866; it was but made in 1866.
Carpenter's offer was a continuing offer, which he could
have withdrawn, at any time, and it was not accepted till
1866. There was no statutory obstacle "removed," but
statutory power was given. The act of May, 1820, was not
repealed, nor its provisions suspended; they were complied
with.
Mr. S. P. Phillips, Solicitor-General,contra.

Oct. 1873.]

CARPENTER

V.

UNITED STATES.

49

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
Though it has sometimes been said that an action of debt,
or assumpsit, for the use and occupation of land, can be
maintained only when the relation of landlord and tenant
has existed between the plaintiff and defendant, this is not
strictly accurate, if it be meant that a demise must be in
fact proved. It is true that the statute of 11 George II,
chapter 19, ยง 14, enacted that the action might be sustained
when a demise has been proved, but the action existed before the statkite was enacted, and the only effect-of the statlute was to enlarge its sphere. Privity of contract is doubtless essential in all cases. But when the defendant has entered and occupied by permission of the plaintiif, without
any express contract, the law implies a promise on his part
to make compensation or pay a reasonable rent for his occupation. In such a case, the consent of the owner to the defendant's entry, followed by such entry and by subsequent
occupation, may be considered equivalent to a demise, or at
least prime facie evidence of a demise. This is because a
demise with a corresponding agreement to pay rent, or
make compensation for the use of the property, is consistent
with an unexplained entry by the owner's consent, and because it is a reasonable presumption that occupation thus
taken was intended to be paid for. No reason, however, for
such an implication exists, when an express contract or an
ayrangement between the parties shows that it was not intended by them to constitute the relation of landlord and
tenant, but that the occupation was taken and held for another purpose. And this is shown when the, entry has been
made in pursuance of an agreement to purchase, whether
that agreement was in writing or in parol. Such an agreement sufficiently explains the allowed entry, without the
necessity of resorting to any implication of a contract other
than that actually made. Accoi'dingly, it was ruled in Kirtland v. Pounsetl,* that an action for use and occupation cannot be maintained against one who took possession under a
* 2 Taunton, 145.

CARPENTER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

contract of sale, which failed afterwards to be consummated,
in consequence of the vendor's inability to make title. It is
true, it appeared in that case the purchase-money had been
paid, and by the use of it the vendor might have been regarded as compensated for the defendant's occupation, yet
0. J. Mansfield said: "A contract cannot arise by implication of law under circumstances the occurrence of which
neither of the parties ever had in contemplation." The
same principle was asserted in Rumball v. Wright.* And in
the later case of Witnerbottom v. Ingham,t the same doctrine
was declared, though the purchase-money bad not been
and th reason given was, that when the defendant
paid,
was let
into possession, both parties understood
that he
made no promise to pay rent. The holding was in the expectation that title would be made and the purcbase completed. There are other decisions to the same'effect. It is
true that in Howard v. Shaw,$ it was held that after a contract of sale had been rescinded, an action for use and occupation might be maintained against a defendant who had
remained in possession with the consent of the owner, but
without any title or contract for the purchase of the land,
and that a recovery might be had for the possession retained'
after the contract of purchase was terminated. But he was
not hela liable for rent during the time the contract subsisted, and he could not have been for the obvious reason
that the contract was inconsistent with any understanding
that rent was to be paid. And no case can be found, it is"
believed, in which one who entered in virtue of an agreement or understanding that he was to be a purchaser, has
been held liable. in an action for the use and occupation of
the land, if the, purchase was actually concluded.
It is contended, however, on behalf of the preseutplaintiff, that the contract of purchase under which, or in the
expectation of the completion of which the United States
entered, and .under which they continued to hold until the
* 1 Carrifigton & Payne, 589. "

4

8 Meeson & Welsby, 118.

7 Adolphus & Ellis, New Series, 611.

Oct. 1873.]

CARPENTER V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the coart.

deed was niade and the purchase-money was paid, was invalid; that until the act of Congress of 1866 was passed, no
executive department had authority to purchase the island,
and that, therefore, there was no legal contract for the purchase in existence until the deed was made and the price
paid. But if this be conceded, it can make no difference.
Let it be that neither party could have enforced the parol
arrangement, it is still true that it was utterly inconsistent
with any understanding that the parties contemplated the
one was to pay and the other was to receive rent for the
occupation of. the property. The understanding of the p-arties is the material thing. Unless it was in'their contemplation that compensation, other than the price stipulated to be
paid for the transfer of the title, should be made, as 0. J.
Mansfield said, in Kirtland v. Pounseti, a contract to pay rent
cannot arise by implication of law.
The plain co.mmon sense of the case is, that if the plaintiff was entitled to anything beyond what he has received, it
was to interest on the purchase-money from the time the
possession was taken uitil the price of the sale was paid.
That he should have-demanded before he delivered his deed.
Not having done so, but having accepted the principal and
consummated the sale, he cannot now assert that the relation in which his vendee stood to him was that of a tenant
to a landlord, and recover interest in the shape of damages
for the breach of an implied promise to pay rent for the use'
and occupation of the island. There is no room in the facts
found by the Court of Claims for the implication of any such
promise.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

