Dec. 1872.]

.
D APEYRE

V. UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

Such being the facts, as found, the plaintiff was expressly
declared by the 20th section to be-assessable for the .diflrence between his return and the estimated possible product,
and it was made the duty of the collector to collect it. The
survey and estimate of producing capacity made under the
10th section were conclusive; while they remained, though
subject to revisi6n, under the direction of the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue. And the extent of liability to taxation
was, under the act of Congress, directed to be measured,"
not by the actual product of spirits, but by what should have
been the product of the materials used, according to the estimate made under the 10th section.
It follows that the assessment made was legal, and that
the plaintiff is not entitled to recover. The Circuit Court,
therefore, erred in giving judgment for the plaintiff JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the record remitted with in-

structions to enter
JUDGMENT FOR THE DEFENDANT.

LAPEYRE V. UNITED STATES.
1. A proclamation of the President relieving parties who had been transacting business in ignorance of it, from penalties, and restoring to them
their rights of property, held, under special circumstances, by the judgment of the court to have taken effect when it was signed by the President and sealed with the seal of the United States, officially attested.
2. Publication in the newspapers held, in the same way, not requisite to
make it operative.

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
By the act of 13th July, 1861,* the President was authorized to proclaim, "that the inhabitants of a State, or any
part thereof, where such insurrection exists, are in state of
insurrection against thE United States ;" and thereupon, "all
APPEAL

12 Stat. at Large, 257,

5.

LAPEYRE V. UNiTED -STATES'.

[
I[Sup.

Cti

Statement of the case.

commercial intercours'e," between, such inhabifants and the
citizens of the rest of the United States; "shal l -cease and be
unlawful, so long as such condition of hostility -shallcontinue."
By the act of July 2d, 1864,*-provision was made for the
transmission and. sale of cotton from the insurrectionary
States. Among other things it was provided that -a person
having cotton in the States west of the Mississippi,. might
transport.the same through the lines of the armies of the
United States to the cityof New Orleans, and there deliver
the same to an agent of the Uniited States, wbo should, buy
the same and return to the person pr'oducing the cotton
three-fourths of the market value thereof in-the city of New
York. In substance this act permitted the introduction and
sale of cotton from an enemy's country, subject to a tax of
25 per cent. on the value thereof.
On the 6th of April, 1865, Lee, commanding the body of
the rebel foi'ces at Richmond, surrendered. Johnson', %ith
another part of them, surrendered on the'*26th'of the' same
mdnth; ard Kirby Smith, who 'commanded west of the Mississippi, did the same on the 26th of May following.
On the 10th of May, 1865, the President issued his proclamation that "armed resistance to the authority of this
government may be regarded ,as virtually at an 'nd."t
On the 18th of June, 1865, one ]apeyre caused to be
shipped to New Orleans, from some point west of the Mis476 bales of cotton,'and .Coisigned',the sme
4is.Sippi iRierT,
to. the purchasing age~at of the government.,, This cotton
reached New Orleans on the 24th"day of June. On the 26th
the owffeP exe'6uted a bill of'sale of the [arhe to the goern'ment agent, who ieturned to him ,867 bales, being threefourths thereof, and retained 119 bales, being one-fourth,
under the provisions of the act referred to. At this time
neither the' claimant nor the agent had any knowledge of
the proclamation, now to be mentioned.
This proclamation, fol oving one:which had been issued
on the 13th of June, i865,1 'etmoving all restrictions on "in:
* 13 Stat. at Large, 377, 418.

t Ib.767.

I lb. 763.

Dec. 1872.]

]LAPEYRE V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

ternal domestic and coastwise trade, and upon the removal
of products of States heretofore declared in insurrection east
of the Mississippi River," removed the restrictions upon the
trade and intercourse from the States west of it,* and restored
the former relations between the States. It was an instrument by the President, bearing date June 24th, 1865, in the
usual form of a proclamation, and was made by authority of
the Congress of the United States. It was headed:
" BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATUES:
A PROCLAMATION."

After making various recitals it proceeded:
"Now, therefore, be it known that I, Andrew Johnson, President of the United States, do hereby declare," &c.
It closed thus:
"In

testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. Done at the
city of Washington, this twenty-fourth day of June, in the year
of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-five, and of
the independence of the United States of America the eightyninth.
"ANDREW

JOHN sON.

"By the President:
" W. HUNTER, Acting Secretary of State."

It was a fact undisputed, and was found by the Court of
Clairms, in one of its fiudings-the third"That this proclamation of the President, of June 24th,-1865,
was not published in the newspapers until the morning of the
27th of the month, nor was it published or promulgated anywhere or in any form prior to said last-named day, unless its
being sealed with the seal of the United States in the Department of State was a publication or promulgation thereof."

It was equally undisputed and found that the Secretary of
the Treasury sent a telegram to the treasury agent in iew
* 13Stat. at Large, 769.

VOL. XVII.

13

LAPEYRE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

Orleans, on the 27th J.une, and also a letter on the 28th
June, informing him that the exaction of 25 per cent. on.
cotton had been. rescinded.
The transaction now under consideration had been entered

into by both parties ignorant- of the removal of the restrictions.
On a uit brought by Lapeyre in the .Court of Olaims, to
recover the proceeds of the 119 bales, which had been sold
by the United States, the question airose whether this instrument,' prior to its being published anywhere, or in form
otherwise than a's mentioned, had'the force and effect of a
proclamation. The Court of Claims was of opinion that it
had inot; and decided against Lapeyre. He now brought
the case here for review.
Mr. P. Phillips, fo' the appellant; a brief of "Messrs.R. H.
Blackburn, .W. H. Lamisn, and C. R Hovey, behig filed on the
same side:
The prohibition of bommercial initercoui'se provided for
by the act of 1861, continued onlyso long ais hostilities existed, and was to end when they ceased. The proclamation
of the President declared that they had ended on 10th MAy',
1865.
. The ground for taking from'owners of property the onefourth of its value, was, that the condition of hostilities~deprived them of the right to sell it, and the one-fourth was
the consideration fo" the special privilege to do so: As soon
-'as hostilities ceased, the rights of commercial intercourse
.returned, and there was no longer any consideration upon
which- the ;3laim of the one-fourth could be rested. The
;two proclamations were issued but to give full effect to this
,result of the law of July 2d, 1864. They were a formal
;notification that the'prphibition under that act no longer
iremaitned.
The' department, charged with the execution of the laws
.respecting such purchases, has given its constrtiction,.and
.holds that thepse proclamations operate from their date.
*The.judgment should in any event be reversed, for the

Dec. 1872.]

DAPEYRE

V.

UNITED

STATES.

Opinion of the Chief Justice, and of Swayne, Clifford, and Strong, JJ.

parties acted under a mistake of fact against which equity
will relieve.*
Independently of ail this, the present is not a case where
a penalty is imposed, and where natural feelings of justice
would influence the court to seek escape from inflicting punishment on parties for an act which they believed to be innocent. To the contrary, givipg effect to this act from its date
restores the party to a right which, in justice, he is entitled
to, and which the law of the land intended to confer upon
him.
If the matter is placed on technical grounds, the wellknown case of 31arbary v. Madison,t may be relied on.
Mr. G. H. Williams, Atorney-General, and Mr. C. tH. Hill,
Assistant Attorney-Gen eral, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered thejudgment of the court.
The only inquiry presented for our consideration is, when
the proclamation, which is the hinge .of the controversy,
took effect. The question arises on the third finding of the
Court of Claims, which is as follows: "The proclamation
of the President of June 24th, 1865, was not published in
the newspapers until the morning of the 27th of that month ;

nor was it published or promulgated anywhere, or in any
form, prior to said last-named day, unless its being sealed
with the seal of the United States, in the Department of
State, was a publication or promulgation thereof."
There is no act of Congress, and nothing to be found in
American jurisprudence, which bears very directly on the
subject. In the English law the instrument is thus defined:
"Proclamttion--prociamalio-is a notice publicly given of
anything whereof the king thinks fit to advertise his subjects. And so it is used, 7th Tichard I, chap. 6."1
Proclamations for various purposes are mentioned in the
English authorities, but it could serve no useful end partic. Hunt v. Rousmanier, 8 Wheaton, 174; S. C., 1 Peters, 1.
1 Cowel's Law Dictionary.
t 1 Craneb, 137.

IJAPEYRE

V. UNITED STATES;

[Slip. Or.

Opinion of the Chief Justice, and of Swayne, Clifford, and Strong, JJ.

--

ula'ly to refer to them.* In England they must be under
the great seal.t If their existence is iitended to be denied,
the proper plea is nd tiel record.4 It is a part of the king's
prerogative to issue them.§ It is a criminal offence to issue
them withoutauthority.1] By the 31st of Henry VIII, chap.
8, it was enacted that the king, with the advice of his council, might issue proclamations denouncing pains and penalties, and that such proclamations should have the force of
acts of Parliament. Thi statute, so fraught with evil to the
liberties of the subject, was repealed a few years later in
the succeeding reign of Edward VI, and during his minofity. A very careful and learned writer says: "A proclamati.on must be under, the great sea], and if denied is to be
tried by the record thereof. It is of course necessary to be
published, in order that the people may be apprised of its
existence and may be enabled to perform the injunctions it
contains. In the absence of any express authorities it should
seem that if the proclamation be under the great seal it need
not be made by any particular class of individuals or in any
particular manner or place, and that it would suffice if it
were made by any 'oneunder the kbiig's authority in the
market-place or public street of each large town. It always
This is the only authority on the
appears in the gazette."
suhject here under consideration which our researches have
enabled us to find. The writer refers to no other author
and to no, adjudicated cases in support of his views. The
third section of the Documentary Evidence Act,** declares
that the copy of a proclamation purporting to be printed by
the queen's printer shall be sufficient proof of the existence
of the original. Under the circumstances it may be well to
look to-the analogy afforded by.the promulgation of statutes.
A t the com mion law every act of Parliament, unless a different time were fixed, took effect from thefirst day of the
t 7 Comyns's Digest, 81.
2 Jacobs's Law Dictionary.
Manning, Cro. Car. 180; Howard v.Slater, 2 Rolls, 172.
+ Keyley -v.
1 Blackstone's Commentaries, 70.
11Broke's Abridgment, folh 160, 17 Viner, 199.
x* 8 aud 9 Victoria, chap. 118.
ff Chitty on-Prerogatives, 106.
*.

Dec. 1872.]

LAPEYRE V. UIITED STATES.

Opinion of the Chief Justice, and of Swayne, Clifford, and Strong, JJ.

session, no matter how long the session or when the act was
passed. This rule was applied to acts punishing offences oV
all grades, including those which were capital and even
attaints. The authorities on the subject are learnedly collected by Mr. Justice Story in the case of The Brig Anzn.*
Sdch was the law ill England until the passage of the 33d
George III, chap. 13, which declared that the royal assent
should be indorsed, and that the act should take effect only
from that time.
The act of Congress of July 27th, 1789, § 2, declares that
whenever a bill, order, resolution, or vote of the Senate and
House of Representatives has been signed by the President,
or not having been rdturned by him with his objections,
shall have become a law, it shall forthwith thereafter be received by the Secretary of State from the President; and
that whenever a bill, order, resolution, or'vote-having been
returned by the President with his objections-shall have
been approved by two-thirds of both houses of Congress,
and become a law, it shall be received by the Secretary from
the President of the Senate, or Speaker of the House of.
Representatives, in whichsoever house it shall have been
last approved; and it is made his duty careully to preserve
the originals. The first section of the act of April 20th,
1818, directs that the secretary shall pubiish all acts and
resolutions currently as they are passed, in newspapers.
The fourth section provides that he shall cause to be published at the close of every session of Congre'ss copies of the
acts of Congress at large, including all amendments to the
Constitution adopted, and all public treaties ratified, sincethe last publication of the laws.
Both those acts are silent as to proclamtions, and we
have been unable to find any provision in the laws of Congress touching the manner of their original promulgation
or their subsequent printing and preservation. Numerous
acts were passed during 6e late war authorizing proclamations to be issued, but they are silent upon these subjects.
1 Gallison, 64.

LAPEYRE V. U9ITED STATES.

[Sup. CL.

Opinion of the Chief Justice, and of Swayne, Clifford, and Strong, JJ.

In the act of July 10th, 1861, under which the proclamation
here inlquestion was issued, the ranguage is-"it may and
shall be lawful for the President by proclamation V) declare,"
&cIn the act of June 22d, 1861, the language is-"the
President shall from time to time issue his riroclamation."t
In the act of December 31st, 1862, the lauguhge is the same
as in the act first.referred to.$ In the act of March 3d, 1863,
the language is-" the President shall issue his proclamation dielaring," &c.§ We have'nowhere found in the legislation of Congress any material departure from this formula,
nor anything.turther in anywise affecting the question before us.
We know that the established usage is to publish proclamations with the laws and resolutions of Congress currently
in the newspapers, and in the same volume with those laws
and resolutions at the end of the session.
There is no statute fixing the time when acts of Congress
shall take effect, but it is settled that where no other time is
prescribed, they take effect from their date.j Where the
language employed is "ffrom, and after the passing of this
act," the same result follows. The act becomes effectual
upon the day of its date. In such cases it is operative from
the first nibment of that day. Fractions of the day are not
recognized. An inquiry involving that -subject is inadmissible. See Welman's Case, where the subject is examined
with learning and ability.
Publishing by outcry, in the market-place and streets of
towns, as suggested by Chitty, has, we apprehend, thllen
into disuse in England. It is certainly unknown in this
country. While it is said the proclamation always appears
in the gazette, .hedoes not say that it cannot become operative until promulgated in that way. -As no mode of publication is prescribed, and those suggested will answer, we do
not see why applying the seal and depositing the instrument
* 12 Stat. at Large, 257.

t lb. 268.

1 lb. 633.

lb.
D 735.

MI
Matthews v. Zane, 7 Wheaton, 211.
20 Vermont, 653; see also Howe's Case, 21 Id. 619; The Ann, 1 Galli-

son, .62; Arnold v. The Urited States, 9 Cranch, 104; 1 Kent, 457.

Dec. 1872.]

LAPEYRE V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Chief Justice, and of Swayne, Clifford, and Strong, JJ.

in the office of the Secretary of State, may not be held to
have the same effect. The President and Secretary have
then completed their work. It is there amidst the archives
of the nation. The laws of Congress are placed there. All
persos desiring it can have access, and procure authenticated copies of both. The President signs and the Secretary
of State seals and attests the proclamation. ' The President
and Congress make the laws. Both are intended to be published in the newspapers and in -book: form.. Acts take
effect before they are printed or published. Whljy should
not the same rule apply to proclamations? We see no solid
reason for making a distinction. If it be objected that the
proclamation may not then be known to many of those to
be aftected by it, the remark applies with equal force to
statutes. The latter taking effect by relation from the beginning of the dayof their date, may thus become operative.
from a period earlier than that of their approval by the
President, and indeed earlier 1han that at which they received the requisite legislative. sanction. 'The legislati~e
action may all occur in the latter part of the day of their
approval. The approval must necessarily be still later. ' It
may be added, as to both statutes and proclamations, that
even after publication in the newspapers, there are in our
country large districts of territory where -actual knowledge
does not usually penetrate through that or any other channel of communication, until a considerably later period. It
will hardly be conteude d that proulamations should take
effect at difierent times, in diffbrent places, according to the
speedier or less speedy means of knowledge in such places
respectively.
But the gravest objection to the test of publication contended for by the defendant in error remains to be considered. It would make the time of taking effect.depend
upon extraneous evidence, which might be conflicting, and
might not be preserved. The date is an unvarying guide:
If that be departed from, the subject may be one of indefinitely recurring litigation. The result in one case would be
no bar in another if the parties.were different;" Upon whom

LAPEYRE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Concurrence of Davis, J., in the judgment.

would rest the burden of proof, the party alleging or the
party denying the fact of publication ? If, after a lapse of
years, the proof were that a proclamation purporting to be
published by authority, was seen at a specified time in a
newspaper, but the paper were lost and its date could not
be shown, would the proclamation be held to take effect
only from the time it was so seen by the witness? Suppose
in the distant future no proof of publication could be found,
would all the rights which had grown up under it be lost
unless protected by the rule of limitations? Would the instrument itself be a nullity? Would an exemplified copy
from the proper office be an insufficient answer to the plea
of nul tiel record? According to the views maintained by
the counsel for the plaintiff in error all these questions must
be answered in the affirniative. The only way to guard
igainst these mischiefs is to apply the same rule of presumption to proclamations that is applied to statutes, that is, that
they had a valid existence on the day of their ditte, and to
permit no inquiry upon the subject. Conceding publication
to be necessary, the officer upon whom rests the duty of
making it should be conclusively presumed to have promptly
and properly discharged that duty. If the proclamation
here involved were a resoldtion or an act of Congress no
such question could arise. That "a proclamation," . . .
"if denied, is'lo be tried by the record thereof," and that in such
(case the proper plea. is nl tiel record, seems to be conclusive
upon the subject.
It would be unfit and unsafe to allow the commencement
of ibhe effect whenever the question. arises, whether at a near
or a distant time, to depend upon the uncertainty of parol
proof, or upon anything extrinsic to the instrument itself, as
found in the archives of the nation.
JUDGMEINT REVERsE'D,

and the case remanded with direc-

tions to enter a judgment
IN

FAVOR OP THE APPELLANT.

PAVIS, Justice.-I concur in the judgment in this case.

Dec.1872.]

LAPEYRE V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of Hunt, Miller, Field, and Bradley, JJ., dissenting.

Mr. Justice HUNT (with whom concurred Justices MILLER, FIELD, and BRADLEY), dissenting:
The question presented is this: Does the fact that the
document under consideration had on it the seal of the
United States, and that it was in the Department of State,
give to it the vitality of a proclamation ?
If it had vitality or existence on the 24th day of June, the
government agent had no authority to retain the 119 bales
of cotton by virtue of the law of 1864. If it had not existence on that da'y, he had authority, and the present-claim is
without foundation.
What is a proclamation? It is to cry aloud, publicly to
make known. One may proclaim, as of old, by the sound
of trumpet,'or by voice, or by print, or by posting; but not
by silence. A proclamation may be published in the newspapers, or scattered by writing, or in any demonstrative
manner, but it cannot be published by a deposit in a place
to which the public have no access.
The lexicographers agree in their definition of a proclamation. Webster gives it thus: "1. A proclamation by
authority; official notice given to the public. 2. In England a declaration of the king's will openly published." " 3.
The declaration of a supreme magistrate made publicly
known." In each of these definitions, it will be perceived
that publicity is an important ingredient. "Notice given to
the public," "openly published," "made publicly known,"
are significant expressions. They give it as an essential element of its character that it should be. openly and publicly
made known. The expcunders of the law use nearly the
same language as the lexicographers. In Jacobs's Law
Dictionary is this languAge: "Proclamation-a notice publicly given of anything whereof the king thinks fit to advertise his subjects." In Bacon's Abridgment* it is said.:
"The king, by his prerogative, may in certain cases and on,
special occasions mace and issue out proclamations for the
prevention of offences, to ratify and confirm an ancient law,
-N Prerogative 8.

.202

TLAPEYRE V.

'UNITED STATES.

.

[Sup. 0t.

Opifiion of Hunt, Miller, Field, and Bradley, JJ., dissenting.

or, as, some books express it, 'quo ad terrorem populi,' to admonish them that they keep the law on pain of his displeasure." And again :* "The king, by his proclamation,
may enforce the execution of the laws, and, therefoie, if the
king, by proclamation, prohibits that which was before unlawful, the offence afterwards will be aggravated." Al
unknown and secret act of -the king could not legally add
to the enormity of a public offence. In his 12th volume,t
Coke gives a full statement of what the king may do by
proclamation, and what he may not do. Chitty, on Prerogative, thus lays it down: "A proclamation must be under
the reat seal, and if denied, is to be tried by the record
thereof. It is, of course, necessary that it be published, in
order that the people may be apprised of its existence and
may be enabled to perform the injunctions it contains. In
the absence of any express authorities on-the point it should
seem that if the proclamation be under the great seal, it
need not be made by any particular class-of individuals or
in particular manner and place, and that it would suffice if
made by any one under the king's authority, in the marketplace or public streets of each large town. It always appears in the gazette."I This authority clearly asserts the
necessity of publication. It always appears, he says, in the
gazette. It would suffice if made in the market-place or
.public streets.
After a careful examinatior of the law books-Allen on
the Royal.Prerogative, Hearne on the Government of England, and several similar works-it is safe to say that no
authority, can be found contradicting this statement of
Chitty.
It is assumed generally, as resting on the nature of the instrument and the general principles of law, that there must
be a publication, and nowhere is an intimation to the contrary to be found.
In the case before us no publicity was given to the paper.
It was in no gazette, in no market-place, nor in the street.
*Prerogative 8.

-f Pff'ge 76.

+ Chitty on Prerogative, 106.

De. 1872.J

LAPEYIE V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of Hunt, Miller, Field, and Bradley, JJ., dissenting.

It was signed by the President and the Acting Secretary of
State, and deposited in the Secretary's office. It does not
appear that a single person besides the President and Secretary was aware of its existence. A deposit in the office of
state is not notice or publicity. *We are not to confound
the solemnity or the security of a resting-place in the archives of the state with publicity. No doubt the place of
deposit was suitable and approprifte, but if promulgation is
founded upon public knowledge or nfotice, it is difficult to
understand how it is furnished by this-facL
Neither did the seal add to its charactei: except to authenticate it. Comyn says that every proclamation ought to be
"sub magno sigillo Anglic."* As evidence of its regularity
and authenticity the seal is welt,'buf it adds nothing to its
publicity. It conveys, notice to no one. It gives no public
knowledge of its existence.
It is argued that a statute takes effect from'the date of
its approval, unless a-different time is fixed by law. As a
general rule this is true. It is further said that, by relation,
it covers the whole of the day of its approval. This also is
generally true.' It has often been decided, however, that
where justice requires it, the true time of its passage may
be shown even to the hour of the day.t
In the case of Welman,J cited to sustain the general rule,
the qualification here stated is recognized. The statement
of Lord Mansfield is given,§ in which it is stated that, when
necessary, the law does examine into fractions of a day. He
says that "lie does not s6e why the very hour of its passage
may not be shown when it is necessary and can be done."
This principle, however, does not aid in the present case.
When a bill has passed both houses and been signed by the
President, and deposited in the proper place, the legislative
and executive power is exhausted. The last act of power
has been exercised. The present is more like the case of a
Title Prerogative; D. E. 3.
j- Brainard v. Bushnell, 11 Connecticut, 17; The People v. Clark; 1 California, 408; Gardner v. Collector, 6 Wallace, 4U9.
20 Vermont, 653.
Combe v. Pitt, 3 Burrow, 1434.

-

'IAPEYRE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion. of Hunt, Miller, Field, and Bradley, JJ.,dissenting.

deed, which takes effect from its delivery. It may be signed,
sealed, and acknowledged by the grantor, but, as a general
rule, it has no eftfct while it remains in his possession; nor
is the efEct different, if it be left in the hands of the notary
taking the acknowledgment.
It is said again that a proclamation is a record, and that
its existence is to be determined upon the plea of nul lie
record. So is'a judgment a record. So is a statute; and the
same may be said of a deed. The document itself must be
proved by the production -of the record; but in each of the
cases mentioned -the time at which it takes effect may be
established by parol. In each case its effect is presumptively
of the day of its date, but the truth may be shown when the
fact is otherwise, ind even to fractions of a day when justice
requires it.*

It is said also that the introduction of extraneous evidence
of the time of publication would cause great confusion. The
argument of inconvenience is never a satisfactory one. It
is not perceived how it would produce more difficulty in this
case than in the case of statutes. A proclamation is usually
issued in fact at" its date. It is presumed to be so issued.
The date may be erroneous. It may have been issued before it bears date. It may have been issued afterwards.
The important rights of persons and of property affected
by it cannot be allowed to be overborne by the argument
of inconvenieice. It would produce much greater inconvenience, as well as injustice, to public interests and to
private rights that a rule of law or of property should be
fixed as of a time which it should be bbyoid the powe of
the most vigilant to ascertain. Proclamations by the king
alone, or by the king by the authority of Parliament, or by
the President by the authority of Congress, or as part of the
executive power, embrace an immense range of subjects.
Knowledge of their contents, 6r the means of obtaining it,
is of more importance than the inconvenience that may be
supposed to arise from leaving the time of publi.cation to be
ascertained by actual proof.
* Authorities supra.

Dec. 1872.]

LAPEYRE V.; UNITED STATES.

Opinion of Hunt, Miller, Field, and Bradley, JJ., dissenting.

It is suggested that the case of Marbury v. ladison* is in
conflict with the conllusion stated. In that case Mr, Adams
had appointed Mr. Marbury and others justices of the peace
of the District of Columfbia, but their commissions had not
been delivered. Afterwards Mr. Madison, Secretary of State,
refused to deliver them, and Mr. Marbury applied for a mandamus to compel such delivery. The nominations had been
confirmed by the. Senate, and the commissions had been
signed bly the P'esident, and- the seal of the United States
affixed by the Secretary of State. The court held that when
the last act of authority on the part of the Executive had
been completed his power was at an end, and the right to
the office was perfect. This last act was declared to be the
signature of the commission.
The want of applicability of this authority to the case before us is manifest. There the last authority of the President had been exercised. His power. was exhausted. Here
he had 'not, on the 21th of June, exercised the last act of authority, nor did he exercise it until the 27th of that month.
It is not doubted that when he had- exercised it, and had
published his proclamation, hi§ power was at an end, the
instrument was perfect, and the rights of all parties became
fixed. But until lie gave life to his proclamation, by some
public or official notice of its existence, it was inchoate
merely. The last act had not been performed.
The learned counsel who argued for the appellant did not
deny that until publication had been made the proclamation
was revocable by the President. If the view we take is correct, it certainly remained in his power and under his control for alteration or revocation until publication was made.
A revocable law is an anomaly. It is a solecism, an absurdity. If itis a law, it is not revocable. If it is revocable,
it is not a law. The elements of change and of certainty
cannot exist in the same thing at the same time. Until the
27th.of June the proclamation was not beyond the power of
change. Until that day, therefore, it could not be a law.
* 1 Cranch, 137.

LAPEYRE V. UNITED STATES..

[Slip. ot.

Opinion of Hunt, Miller, Field, and Bradley, JJ., dissenting.

It has been suggested, although this proclamation did
not come into existence until the 27th of June, that after it
did take effect, it related back to the 24th of that month.
Such a principle is unknown to our laws. It involves the
essential effect of a retroactive law. That a mal should, on
the 24th of Jnne, perform an act lawful and commendable,
that by al official declaration on the 27th this lawful act
should be rendered unlawful at the time -it was performed,
and punishable, is in violation of every idea of constitutional
law and of common right. When applied to criniinal law,
such an actis ex post facto, and retroactive when applied to
civil cases.
An ex post facto law-is one which imposes a punishment
for an act which was not punishable at the time it was committed, or which imposes additional punishment to that then
prescribed.*
In Fletcherv. Peckjt it was decided that an act of the legislature, by which a man's estate shall be seized for a crime,
which was not declared to be an offence by some previous
law, was null and void.
In Cummings v. Iffissour-4, it was held that although the
prohibition of the Constitution against ex post facto laws is
aimed against criminal cases, it cannot be evaded by giving
a civil form to that which is in substance criminal. The
passage of an act imposing a, penalty upon a priest for the
performance of an act, innocent by law at the time it was
committed, was, therefore, held-to be void.
The principle is so familiar that it is not -necessary to
accumulate auth orities. The proposition we are discussing
fills directly within the prohibition.
We nre not called upon to decide what would amount
to a sufficient publication, or in what manner the required
notice may be given. -We are simply to decide whether,
upon the facts b'efore us, a legal publication of the proclamiation had been made on the 24th day of June, 1865.
.* Carpenter v. Pennsy.vania, 17 Howard, 456.
t 6 Cranch, 87.
$ 4 Wallace. 277.

