Oct. 1878.]

lEx PARTE ATOCHA.

Syllabus.

within the Confederate lines. During his absence he had
no legal right to appoint an agent or to transact any other
business in New Orleans.* This legal proposition has been
so often and so fully discussed by this court that it is ieedless to go over the same ground again.
If the law were otherwise, it is to be presumed that any
communication between MNobile and New Orleans was impracticable. Lasere doubtless knew not'ing'of the proceedings against him; and, if"he had had such knowledge,
he was powerless to do anything to protect his rights.
The point here involved was decided by this court in
ean v. Nelson.t It was there said: "The defendants in
the proceedings"-neaning the original proceedings-" the
appellees here, wei'e within the Confederate lines at the
time, and it Was unlawful for them to cross those lines.
Two of them bad been expelled the Union lines by military
authority, and were not permitted to return. The other,
Benjamin May, had never left the Confederate lines. A
notice directed to them and published in a newspapet1 was a
mere idle form." They could not lawfully see or obey it.
As to them, the proceedings were wholly void-and inopera-.
tive."
The case thus condemned is substantially the one before us.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the case remanded to the court

whence it came, withi directions to proceed
IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

EX

PARTE ATOCHA.

1. Claims under treaty stipulations are excluded from the general jurisdiction of the Court of Claims conferred by the acts of Congress of Febru.
ary 24th, 185, and 'March 3d, 1863; and when jurisdiction over such
claims is conferred by special act, the authority of that court to hear
and determine them, and of this court to review its action, is limited
and controlled by the provisions of that act.
* Coppell v. Hall, 7 Wallace, 568.

t 10 Wallace.. 172.

EX PARTE ATOCHA.

Iqup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
2. An act of Congress passed on the 14th of February, 1865, "for the relief
of Alexander J. Atocha," directed the Court of Claims to examine into
his claim against the government of Mexico for losses sustained by him
by reasoA of his expulsion from that country in 1845, and provided that
if the court was of opinion that the claim was a just one against Mexico
when the treaty of 1848 was ratified, and was embraced by that treaty,
it should "1fix and determine" its amount, and declared that the loss or
damage sustained by him, thus adjudicated and determined, should be
paid out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, subject only to the condition that the amount did not exceed the unapplied
balance of the sum provided by the treaty. Under this act the claim of
Atocha was presented to that court for examination and determination.
The court gave its decision to the effect that it was of opinion that the
claim was a just one against Mexico when the treaty of 1848 was ratiflied, and was embraced by that treaty, and " fixed and determined " the
amount of the loss and damage sustained by Atocha, and declared that
it would be satisfied by the United States paying to the administratrix
of the estate of the claimant the balance remaining unapplied of the sum
designated in the treaty: Held, that the decision of the Court of Claims
was final under the special act, and that no appeal would lie from it to
this court.

and motion for mandamus: the case being thus:
By the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, made on the 2d of
February, 1848, between the United States and Mexico, the
United States exonerated Mexico from all demands of their
citizens, which had previously arisen, and had not been decided against that government, and engaged to satisfy them
to an amount not exceeding $3,250,000. They also stipulated for the establishment of a board of commissioijers to
ascertain the validity and amount of the claims, and provided that its awards should be final.*
In execution of this stipulation Congress, on the 3d of
March, 1849, passed an act creating 4 board of commissioners to examine the claims, and provided for the payment of
its awards, or a proportional part thereof, from the amount
designated in the treaty. The act required the board to
terminate its business within two years from the day of its
organization.t
.PETITION

* 9 Statutes at Large, 933, Arts. XIV and XV of the Treaty.

t Ibid. 394.

'Oct. 1873.]

EX PARTE ATOCHA.
Statement of the case.

To this board Alexander J. Atocha, a naturalized, citizen
of the United States, p,'esented a claim against the government of Mexico for losses sustained by reason of his expulsion from that country in 1845. In the prosecution of his
claim evidence was taken and laid before the board, but
whether it was acted upon, and what proceedings were subsequently taken, did not appear by the record. For aught
that appeared the claim might not have been prosecuted to
a final determination; it might have fallen from the expiration of the board, or. it might have been rejected ol its
merits. It was, however, immaterial, so far as the present
inquiry was concerned, what had been its fate before the
board. If rejected, the United States were the only party
to insist upon the finality of the determination. Mexico was
released from the claim, and it did not concern her what
consideration the United States might choose to give to it,
so long as other claimants against her were not in consequence denied payment of their demands, and there was no
pretence that such was the case. On the contrary, a balance
remained of the amount designated in the treaty after the
satisfaction of the awards made. And on the 14th of Februay, 1865, Congress passed a special act for the relief of
Atocha, and by it directed the Court of Claims to examine
into his claim, and provided that if the court was of opinion
that the claim was a just one against Mexico when the treaty
of 1848 was ratified, and 'was embraced by that treaty, it
should "fix and determine" its amount, and declared that
the loss or damage sustained by him, thus adjudicated and
determined, should be paid out of any money in the treasury
not otherwise appropriated, subject only to the condition
that the amount did not exceed the unapphled balance of the
sum designated in the treaty.*
The claim was accordingly brought, in pursuance of the
act, before the Court of Claims for examination and determination. To aid in its examination Congress passed, on the
5th of April, 1870, an amendatory act authorizing Atocha,
13 Stat. at Large, 595.

Ex PARTE ATOCHA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

in the prosecution of his claim, and-the government in defending against it, to use such portions of the evidence taken
in pursuance of the rules and regulations of the commission
established under the treaty as consisted of the testimony of
persons since deceased, and declared that the court should
give to this evidence, so fa' as its subject-matter was competent, such weight as itf the judgment of the court, under all
the circumstances, it ought to have.*
On the 26th of May, 1873, the Court of Claims rendered
its decision. Reciting that having examined int.o the claim,
in pursuance of the act of Congress, it announced that it was
of opinion that the claim was a just one against Mexico when
the treaty of 1848 was ratified, and was embraced by that
treaty, and "fixed and determined" the amount of the loss
and damage sustained by Atocha by reason of his expulsion
from that country at the sum of $207,852.60, and declared
that this sum would be satisfied and discharged by the payment by the United States to Eliza J. Atocha, who is the
administratrix of the estate of the original claimant, of the
balaice remaining uenapplied of the sum designated in the
treaty, which was a few hundred dollars less than the amount
awarded.
,From this decision the Attorney-General applied for an
appeal on behalf of the United States. The application was
denied, fhe Court of Claims being of opinion that no appeal
was.by law allowed in the case. On motion of the Attorney-General ai alternative writ of mandamus was directed
to the judges of that court to allow the appeal. In their
return the judges referred to the special act under which
the Court of Claims heard the case, and placed their refusal
on the ground, substautially, that the court acted not under
any general grant of jurisdiction, but under the limited authority prescribed by that act; that it was the intention of
Congress that the court should proceed not as a court trying
an action against the United States, but as a commission
similar to that provided by the treaty; that no claim against
16 Stat. at Large, 638.

Oct. 1873.]

EX PARTE ATOOHA.
Opinion of the court.

the United States was submitted to its adjudication; that in
the absence of any provision in the special act for an appeal
none would lie unless some other provision of law authorized
it, and that the provisions contained in the general acts of
March 3d, 1863, and June 25th, 1868, in relation to appeals
from judgments of the Court of Claims, did not apply, as
the first act only gave an appeal from judgments on claims
against the United States, and the second act from judgments adverse to the United States.
Upon this return, as upon a demuriler to its sufficiency,
the Attorney-General asked for a peremptory mandamus.
Mr. G. H. Williams, Attorney-General, and Mr. . Goforth,
Assistant Attorney-General, in favor of the mandamhs; Messrs.
J. J. Weed, W. P. Clarke, B. H. Gorwine, and Edward Janin,
en Ira.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the facts of the case, delivered the opinion of the court, as follows:
The question for determination is, whether, under the acts
of Congress investing the Court of Claims with general jurisdiction to hear and determine claims, an appeal lies from
its decision in this case. If an appeal is authorized it must
be by the provisions of the act of March 8d, 186.3, amending
the act establishing the Court of Claims, or of the act of
June 25th, 1868, providing for appeals from its judgments.
The original act of February 24th, 1855, establishing the
court, gave it jurisdiction to hear and determine all claims
founded upon any law of Congress, or upon any regulation
of an executive department, or upon any contract, express

or implied, with the government of the United States, which
might be suggested to it by petition, and all claims which
might be referred to the court by either house of Congress;
but it did not authorize any appeal from the.decisions of the
court. It required the court to report to Congress the cases
upon which it had finally acted, and the material facts established by the evidence in each, with its opinion and the
reasons upon which the opinion was founded. It was not

EX PARTE ATOCHA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

until the passage of the act of March 8d, 1863, that an appeal from its decisions was allowed. That act materially
amended the original act, added two more judges, gave the
court jurisdiction over set-ofl's and counter-claims, and authorized an appeal to the Supreme Court in all cases where
the aniount in controvery exceeded $8000, and without reference to the amount, where the case involved a constitutional question, or the judgment or decree affected a class of
cases, or furnished a precedent for the future action of an
executive department. But the act at the 'same time declared that the jurisdiction of the court should not extend
to or include any claim against the government, not pending in the court on the 1st of December, 1862, growing out
of or dependent on any treaty stipulation entered into with
foreign nations or the Indian tirbes. All the cases of which
the court could subsequently take cognizance, by either the
original or amendatory act, were cases arising out of contracts or transactions between .the government or its officers
and claimants; and in their decision the court was to be
governed by those established rules of evidence which determine controversies between litigants in the ordinary tribunals of the eountliy. Those acts have since then applied
only to claims made directly against the United, States, and
for the paymelit of which they were primarily liable, if liable
at all, and not to claims against other governments, the payment -of which the United States had assumed or 'might
assume by treaty.
The act of June 25th, 1868, whilst allowing appeals on
behalf of the United States from all final judgments.of the
Court of Claims adverse to the United States, did not change
the character of the claims of which that court could previously take cognizance. Claims under treaty stipulations
are not brought within it, and when jurisdiction over such
claims is conferred by special act, the authority of that court
to hear and determihe them, and of this court to review its
action, is -limited and controlled by the provisions of that
act.
In the case of Meade v. United States, thre special act of

Qct. 1873.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. BROWN.

445

Syllabus.

Congress was pas'sed to remove the restriction of the ninth
section of the act of 1863, and his claim was referred to the
Court of Claims "for adjudication thereof, pursuant to authority conferred upon said court by any existing law to
examine and decide claims against the lnited States, referred to it by Congress."* His claim was thus placed under
the jurisdiction of the court equally as though the ninth section were not in existence.
In the present case, no such general reference was made
of the claim of Atoeha, nor was any such extended authority over it conferred. The court was directed to make a
specific examination into the justice of the claim against
Mexico, and whether it was embraced within tire treaty;
and if the court was of opinion that the claim was a just one
and was embraced within tha.treaty, it was required "to fix
and determine" its amount, and when so determfined, the
act declares that the amount shall be paid." -The matter was
referred to the court to ascertain a particular fact to guide
the government in the execution of its treaty stipulations.
The court has acted upon the matter, and as no mode is
provided for a review of its action, it must be taken and regarded as final.
Our judgment is, that the return of the judges of the
Court of Claims to the alternative writ is sufficient, and a
peremptory mandamus is
DENIED.

RAILROAD COMPANY v. BRowN.
1. An act of Congress, in cases of a suit against a railroad company which
it incorporated, authorized service of process "on any director of the
company." On a suit brought, the marshal made a return of service,
July 6th, 1868, on J. S., "reputed to be one of the directors of the conpany." The record showed that on the 5th of May, 1866, J. S. was, in
fact, one of the directors. Held, sufficient service, in the absence of
proof, that J. S. was not one of the directors at the time of service; and
* 14 Stat. at Large, 611.

