322

UNITED STATES v. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

UNITED STATES V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

The tax provided.for in the 122d section of the Internal Revenue Act of
June 30th, 1864, as subsequently amended, in which section it is enacted
that railroad and certain other companies specified, "indebted for money
for which bonds shall have been issued .. . upon which ihterest is stipulated to be paid... shall be subject to and pay a tax of 5 pet centum on
the amount of all such interest,"

. . .

is a tax upon the creditor and not

upon the corporation. The corporation is made use of but as a convenient means of collecting the tax.
A municipal corporation is a portion of the sovereign power of the State,
and is not subject to taxation by Congress upon its municipal revenues.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland.

This case arose upon the identical 122d section of the Internal Revenue Act of 1864, as amended by that of 1866,
which is discussed in the preceding case. The section enacts:
"That any railroad,canal, turnpike, canal navigation, or slackwater company, indebted for any money for which bonds or other
evidence of indebtedness have been issued, payable in one or more
years after date, upon which interest is stipulated to be paid, or
coupons representing the interest, or any such company that
may have declared any dividend in scrip or money due or payable to its stockholders, including non-residents, whether citizens or aliens, as part of the earnings, profits, income, or gains

of such company, and all profits of such company carried to the
account of any fund, or used for construction, shall be subject to
and pay a tax of 5 per centum on the amount of all such interest or
coupons, dividends or profits, whenever and wherever the same
shall be payable, and to whatsoever party or person the same
may be payable, including non-residents, whether citizens or
aliens.
"IAnd said companies are hereby authorized to deduct and withhold from all payments on account of any interest or coupons, and
dividends, due and pay' te as aforesaid,the tax of 5 per centum;
and the payment of the amount of said tax so deducted from
the interest, or coupons, or dividends, and certified by the president or treasurer of said company, shall discharge said company
from that amount of the dividend, or interest, or coupon on the

Dee. 1872.]

UNITED STATES V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

828

Statement of the case.

bonds or other evidences of their indebtedness so held by any,
person or party whatever, except where said companies may
have contracted otherwise."
This is the material part of the section. Another paragraph is, however, here presented, as it is spoken of in one
of the opinions* in the preceding~case, as assisting to interpret the parts that precede it.
"And a list or return shall be made and rendered to the assessor or assistant, assessor Qn or bWfore the tenth day of the
month followini that in which said interest, coupons, or dividends become'due.and payable, and as often as every six months;
and said list or return shall contain a true and faithful account
of the amount of tax-, and there shall be annexed thereto a declaration of the president or treasurer of the company, under oath
or affirmation, in form and manner as may be prescribed by the
Commissionor of Internal Revenue, that the same contains a
true and faithful account of said tax. And for any default in
making or rendering such list or return, with the declaration
annexed, or of the payment of the tax as aforesaid, the company
making such default shall forfeit as a pena-.y the sum of $1000;
and in case of any default in making or rendering said list or
return, or of the payment of the tax or any part thereof, as
aforesaid, the assessment and collection of the tax and penalty
shall be made according to the provisions of law in other cases
of neglect or refusal."
In the year 1854, and prior, of course, to the enactment
of the said section, or indeed of any internal revenue statutes, the legislature of Maryland gave to the city of Baltimore (then desirous of aiding the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company in the construction of its road, which the
city councils of Baltimore conceived would, if made, greatly
benefit the city), authority 1b issue and sell its bonds to the
extent of $5,000,000, payabl" in 1890; and to lend the proceeds to the railroad company, less 10 per cent., to be reserved as a sinking fund to pay the principal of the loan at
its maturity. This the city did, the railroad company in
* Supra, p. 305.

824

UNITED STATES v. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court..

turn giving to it a mortgage on all its road, revenue, and
frinchises, to secure the payment of the bonds which the
city had issued, and the interest which it had bound itself
to pay.
After the passage of the internal revenue laws, the 122d
section of which is above quoted, the government claimed
payment from the company of a tax of 5 per cent., which
the collectors of the Federal revenue alleged that under the
plain language of the above-quoted 122d section, the company was bound to withhold from the city and pay to the
United States. The company refused so to pay the 5 per
cent. to the government, on the ground that the tax was not
a tax laid on it, the company, but one laid on their creditor,
the city of Balti-moie, and that that city, being a municipal
corporation, could not have its revenues taxed by the Federal government.
The 'United States accordingly sued the company, in the
court below, in assumpsit.
The first count alleged that the company, by force of the
provisions of the mortgage, became bound to pay to the city
the interest on the loan, and that the company owed for
tax on such interest $87,000.,
'The second count was fo6i $87,000, money had and received. The defendant pleaded the general issue.
The court below gaye judgment for.the company, and the
United States brought the case here, where it was fully
argued March 12tli, 1873, byWillians, Atormey- General, and Mr. S. F. Phillips,
Mr. G. .I.
Solicitor-General,for the plaintiff in error; Messrs. J. 1T B.
Latrobe and I. R..Steele, contra..
And now, April 3d, 1873Mr. Justice HUNT deliver ed the opinion of the court.
The defendants insist, firstly, that the section in question
dogs not lay a tax upon the corporations therein named, and
by whom the tax is payable, upon their own account, but

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

82&

Opinion of the court.

uses then as a convenient means of collecting the tax from
the creditor, or stockholder, upon whom the tax is really
laid. They insist as a consequence, secondly, that the present is a tax upon the revenues of the city of Baltimore; and,
thirdly, that it is not within the power of Congress to tax
the income or property of a municipal corporation.
1. The case of The Railroad Comnpany v. Jaekson,* decided
in 1868, and Haight v. Railroad Comparty,t are authorities in
support of the first proposition. In the case first mentioned,
Jackson, an alien non-resident, sought to recover from the
railroad company the amount of the tax of 5 per cent. imposed upon the interest of bondholders by the act of 1864,
and withheld by the company. A similar tax was imposed
by the statutes of Pennsylvania. The plaintiff claimed that
as he was an alien non-resident, it was not in the power of
Congress, or of that State, to tax him. The courts of Pennsylvania had sustaine. the deduction. Mr. Justice Nelson,
in delivering the opinion of this'court, and in remarking
upon the decision of those courts, " that the deduction from
the prescribed income of the interest on thtese railroad bonds,
when paid by companies, was regarded as simply a mode of
collecting this part of the income tax," says: "We concur
in this view. It is not important, however, to pursue this
argument, as Congress has since, in express terms, by the
acts of March 10th and July 13th, 1866, imposed a tax on
alien non-resident bondholders. The question will be hereafter not whether the laws embrace the alien non-reside, t
holder, but whether it is competent for Congress to impose
it." In laight v. Railroad Company it was held that a covenant by the corporation issuing the bond to pay the interest
"without any deduction to be made for or in respect of any
taxes, charges, or assessments," did not relieve Haight, who
was a bondholder, from the deduction of the 5 per cent.
authorized by the 122d section. The court below said that
"the measure of the company's liability is expressed in the
bond as being debt and interest only. It has nothing to do
* 7 Wallace, 262.

* 6 Id. 17.

826

UNITED STATES V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[SUp. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

with the taxes which the government may impose on the
plaintiff for the interest payable to him. .

.

. The plaintiff

pays no internal revenue tax on these bonds at his place of
residence. It is, therefore, no case of double taxation. The
tax should be paid somewhere, and it was to meet investmeats like this, in banks, railroads, &c., that the 122d section was passed." This opinion was adopted in this court,
Mr. Justice Grier saying: "The facts in this case are correctly stated, and the law properly decided by the learned
judge of the Circuit Court."
This is a clear, distinct,, unqualified adjudication, by the
unanimous judgment of this cotirt, that the tax imposed by
the 122d section is a' tax imposed upon the creditor or stockholder therein named; that the tax is not upon the corporation, and that the corporation is made use of as a convenient and effective instrument for collecting-the same. It
is a sequence in logical connection with that provision of section 117,* which specifies as the subjects of individual taxation all the earnings, profits, gains, and income from whatever source dd'ived, and whether divided or not, except the
amount derived from the sources indicated in the 122d
section. Of the incomes specified in section 117 the individual must make specific ieturns, and be directly taxed
thereon. Upon or for the incomes received from the sources
mentioned in section 122 no tax is directly imposed upon
the owner. That tax is to be returned by, and collected
from, the corporation as his agent and instrument.
A tax is understood to be a charge, a pecuniary burden,
for the support of government. Of all burdens imposed
upon mankind that of grinding taxation is the most cruel.
It is not taxation that government should take from one the
profits and gains of another. That is taxation which compels one to pay for the support of the government from his
own gains and of his own property.
In the cases we are considering the corporation parts not
with a farthing of its bwn property. Whatever sum it pays
* See this section quoted supra, p. 295.

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES V. RAILROAD OOMPANY.

327

Opinion of the court.

to the government is the property of another. Whether the
tax is 5 per cent. oil the dividend or interest, or whether it
be 50 per cent., the corporation is neither richer nor poorer.
Whatever it thus pays to the gov.;rnment, it by law withholds from the creditor. If no tax exists, it pays 7 per cent.,
or whatever be its rate of interest, to its creditor in one unbroken sum. If there be a tax it pays exactly the same sum
to its creditor, less 5 per cent. thereof and this 5 per cent.
it pays to the government. The receivers may be two, or
the receiver may be one, but the payer pays the same
amoumit in either event. It is no pecuniary burden upon
the corporation, and no taxation of the corporation. The
burden falls on the creditor. He is the party taxed.
In the case before us this question controls its decision'
If the tax were upon the railroad, there is no defence. It
must be paid. But we hold that the tax imposed by the
122)d section is in substance and in law a tax upon the income of the creditor or stockholder, and not a tax upon the
corporation.
The creditor here is the city of Baltimore, and the question then arises whether this tax can be collected from the
revenues of that municipal corporation.
There is no dispute about the general rules of law applicable to this subject. The power of taxation by the Federal
government upon the subjects and in the manner prescribed
by the, act we are considering, is undoubted. There are,
howeve-r, certain departments which are excepted from the
general power. The right of the States to administer their
own affairs through their legislative, executive, and judicial
departments, in their own maner through their own agencies, is conceded by the uniform decisions of this court and
by the practice of the Federal government from its organization. This carries with it an exemption of those agencies
and instruments, from the taxing power of the Federal government. If they may be taxed lightly, they may be taxed
heavily; if justly, oppressively. Their operation may be
impeded and may be destroyed, if any interference is per-

;328

UNITED STATES V.

RAILROAD

OOMPANY.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

mitted. Hlence, the beginning of such taxatioii is not allowed on the one side, is not claimed on the other.
In the " Compendium of Internal Revenue Law,' by Davidge & Kimball, it is said,* " Congress may not tax the
T'evenues of a State,"t aiid also, "A national bank is not
liable under the internal revenue laws to the tax upon divi-dends due a State on stock owned by the State."
Again :T " The term corporation as used in the acts of
Congress touching internal revenue does not include a State,
consequently the income of the State of Georgia froth the
Western and Atlantic railroad, property owned, controlled,
and managed by that State, has not been made by law a
subject of taxation."
Again, "The term person as used in §§ 9and 44 does not
include a State. The receipts or certificates issued by the
State of Alabama are not subject to the tax of 10 per cent.
imposed by the act of C0ongress of March 25th, 1867."§
The inquiry then arises, what is the nature and character
-ofmunicipal corporations, and what is their connection with
the government of the State.
A work on corporations says,I that inferior and sub'ordinate communities, imperia in imperio, such as cities and
towns. . . . are allowed to assume to themselves some of
the duties of the State' ini a partial or detailed form, but
having neither property nor power for the purposes of personal aggrandizement, they can be considered in no other
light than as auxiliaries of the g 6 vernment, and as- the
secondary deputies and trustees and servants of the people. f
It is said further by the same authority, the main distinction between public and private e.orporati0ns is, that over
the former the legislature, as guardiani of the public inter- Page 505; citing Sayles v. Davis, 22 Wisconsin, 229.
t Page 485; 'citing 12 Opinions of the Attorneys-General, 402.
: Page 471; citing State of Georgia v. Atkiiis, Collector, 8 Internal Rev,enuc Record, 113.

I

12"Opinions of the Attorneys-General, 176.
Angel & Ames on Corporations, 16 el seq.
.2 Kent, 4th ed. 274, and De Tocqueville Democratie, 1, 64, 9{.

Dec.

1872.]

UNITED STATES V. RAILROAD C6MPANY.

829

Opinion of the court.

ests, has the exclusive and unrestrained control; and acting
as such, as it may create, so it may modify or destroy, as
public exigency requires or recommends, or the public interest will be best subserved. It possesses the right to alter,
abolish, or destroy all such institutions, as mere municipal
regulations must, from the nature of things, be subject to
tha absolute control of the government.* " Such institutions (it is added) are auxiliaries of the government in the
important business of municipal rule."
A municipal corporation like the city of Baltimore, is a
representative not only of the State, but is a portion of its
governmental power. It is one of its creatures, made-for a
,specific purpose, to exercise within a limited sphere the
powers of the State. The State may withdraw these local
powers of government at pleasure, and may, through its
legislature or other appointed channels, govern the local territory as it governs the State at large. It may enlarge or
contract its powers or destroy its existence. As a portion
of 'the State in thetexercise of a limited portion of the powers
of the State, its revenues, like those of the State, are not
subject to taxation. This proposition is very properly admitted by the counsel for the government. In their brief
it is said, "We admit that municipal corporations, acting
merely within the scope of their duties as such, are not to
be included within general words imposing taxes upon persons or corporations." In support of this view is cited the
proviso to the amendment in 1866, in these words: "Pro-'
vided that it is the intent hereby to exempt from liability to
taxation such State, county, town, or other municipal corporation, in the exercise only of functions strictly belonging
to them in their ordinary governmental and municipal capacity."
Assuming for the argument that this qualification is well
made, let us look at the facts of the case before us. The
city of Baltimore, with a view to its commercial prosperity,
was desirous of aiding in the construction of a railroad, by
* Angcl & Ames on Corporations,

81.

880

UNITED STATES V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

which the commerce and business of the Western States
would be brought to that city. For this purpose it was authorized by the legislature to issue its corporate bonds for
$5,000,000, on which it was to obtain the money. The proceeds of these bonds, reserving 10 per cent. as a sinking fund,
were to be paid to the railroad company. To secure the
city against loss and to provide for the payment of the interest on the bonds of the city as it should, from time to
time mature, and of the principal when payable, the railroad
company were to execute a mortgage to the city upon its
road and franchises and revenues. All this was dohe as
agreed upon. The interest, secured by this mortgage, has,
from time to time, been paid by the railr6ad company to the
city, and it is a tax (under the 122d section before referred
to) upon the interest thus paid, that the plaintiff now seeks
to recover.
That the State possessed the power to confer this authority upon the city, we see no reason to doubt.*
Was it exercised for the benefit of the municipality, that
is in the course of its municipal business or duties? In
other words, was it acting in its capacity of an agent of the
State, delegated to exercise certain powers for the benefit of
the municipality called the city of Baltimore? Did it act
as an auxiliary servant and trustee of the supreme legislative
power? The legislature and the authorities of the city of
Baltimore decided that the investment of $5,000,000 in aid
of the construction of a railroad, w1iich should bring to that
city the unbounded harvests of the West, would be a measure
for the benefit of the inhabitants of Baltimore and: of the
municipality. This vast business was a prize for which the
States north of Ma!ryland were contending. Should it endeavor by the expenditure of this money or this credit to
bring this -vast business into its own State, and make its
commercial metropolis great and prosperous, or should it
refuse to in~ur hazard, allow other States to absorb this
commerce, and Bi Iimore to fall into an inferior position ?
* Gelpckev. Dubuque, I Wallace, 202; Rogers v. Burlington, 8 Id. 664.

Dec. 1872.] UNITED STATES V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

831

Opinion of th court.

This was a question for the decision of the city under the
authority of the State. It was a question to be decided
solely with reference to public and municipal interests. The
city'bad authority to expend its money in opening squares,
in widening streets, in deepening rivers, in building common roads or railways. The State could do these things by
the direct act of its legislature, or it could empower the city
to do them. It could hct directly or through the agency of
others. It is not a question to be here discussed, whether
the action proposed would in the eild result to the benefit
of the city. It might be wise, or it might prove otherwise.
The city was to reap the fruits in the advanced prosperity
of all its material interests, if successful. If unsuccessful,
the city was to bear the load of debt and taxation, which
would surely follow. The city had the power given it by
the legislature to decide the question. It was within the
scope of its municipal powers.
This advance of the city bonds was not a donation. It
was an investment supposed to be judiciously made and adequately secured. It was not for the individual benefit of
those managing the business. No one received advantage
except as he was a citizen or his property was within the
city. It was not a loan for the benefit of the railroad; it
was for the benefit of the city solely. That the railroad
company was also benefited did not affect the purpose of
the transaction.
It is said by the counsel for the United States that municipal corporations are those that are created irrespective of
those who are associated therein, and that the powers are
given and withheld upon grounds which concern the public
at large. It is not necessary to discuss the question whether
this city is a municipal corporation. If there can exist a
municipal corporation, as that expression is generally understood, the cities of this country, like Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New York, fall within the definition. The power
in question was conferred because its exercise concerned the
public and to benefit that public. This power could no
doubt have been imposed upon the city as a duty, and its

832

UNITED STATES V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

exercise directed without the- assent or against the wish of
the corporation or its citizens. The State could do it directly for and on behalf of the city, and without its intervention. The city could act only by authority from the
State. The State is itself supreme, and needs no assent or
authority from the city. It is not perceived that the act is
less public and municipal in its character than if the State
had compelled the city to lay the tax and to make the appropriation of the proceeds to the railroad company. In
The Town of Guiyord v. The Board of Supervisors of Chenango
Gounly,* it was held:
1. That the legislature has power to levy a tax upon the
taxable property of a town, aid appropriate the same to the
payment of a claim made by an individual against the town.
2. That it is not a valid objection to the exercise of such
power, that the claim to satisfy which the tax is levied is
not recoverable by action against the town.
8. Tht it does not alter the case that the claim has been
rej.ected by the voters of the town, when submitted to them
at a town meeting, under an act of the legislature authorizing such submission and declaring that their decision should
be final and conclusive. °
The action is no iess a portion of the sovereign authority,
when it is done through the agency of a town or city corporation.
We admit the proposition of the counsel, that the revenue must be municipal in its nature to entitle it to the exemption claimed. Thus, if an individual should make the
city of Baltimore his agent and trustee to receive funds,
and to distribute them in. aid of science, literature, or the
fine arts, or even for the relief of the destitute and infirm, it
is quite possible that such revenues would be subject to
taxation. The corporation would therein depart from its
municipal character, and assume the position of a private
trustee. It would occupy a place which an individual could
occupy with equal propriety. If would not in that action
* 3 Kernan, 148.

Dec. 1872.] UNITED STATES v.

RAILROAD

COMPANY.

833

Opinion of Clifford and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

be an auxiliary or servant of the State, but of the individual
creating the trust. There is nothing of a governmental
character i!n such a position. It is not necessary, however,
to speculate upon hypothetical cases. We are clear in the
opinion that the present transaction is within the range of
the municipal duties of the city, and that the tax cannot be
collected.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY:
I concur in the judgment of the court in this case, without
deciding whether Congress can or cannot tax the property
of municipal corporations. I concur in the judgment on the
ground that Congress did not intend by the internal revenue
laws to tax property belonging to the States or to municipal
corporations. This is apparent from the language of the
116th section of the Internal Revenue Act of 1864. I also
concur in the construction given by the opinion to the Internal Revenue Act, that the tax imposed by the 122d section
of that act was substantially a tax on the stock and bondholders, and not on the railroad or canal companies.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD (with whose dissent and views
concurred Mr. Justice MILLER), dissenting:
I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court.
Property owned by a municipal corporation and 'used as
means or instruments for conducting the public affairs of
the municipality "may not be subject to Federal taxation, as
it may perhaps be regarded as illing withit. the implied
exemption established by a recent decision of this'court.*
Well-founded doubts, however, may arise even upon that
subject, as the tax in that case was levied directly upon the
salary of a judicial officer, and the opinion of th6 court is
carefully limited to the case then before the -court. But
concede, for.the sake of the argument, that the means and
instruments for conducting the public affairs of the munici* The Collector v. Day, 11 Wallace, 113.

884

UNITED STATES V. RAIIROAD COMPANY.

[Sup.

at.

Opinion of Clifford and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

pality are entitled to the same exemption from such taxation
as the revenues of the State,' it by no means follows that the
private property owned by such a corporation, and held
merelyas private property in a proprietary right, and used
merely in a-commercial sense for the income,-gain-, and
profits, is not taxable just-the same as property owned by an
individual, or any other corpordtion. Such a right is one
which may be of great value to the government in time of
war and imminent public danger, and one which the United
States ought never to surrender.
Corporations of the kind are vel-y numerous and they may
and often do own large amounts of bank stock, bonds, and
stocks of railroads, vacant lots and bther real estate of great
value, and many other species'of personal property and
choses in action never used or intended to be used ,smeans
or instruments for conducting the public affairs of the municipality, and in respect to all such property the right of
Congress to pass laws subjecting the same to taxation with
the property of the citizens generally is as clear, in my judgment, as it is that the power to lay and collect taxes, duties,
imposts, and excises is vested by the Constitution in the

national legislature.*
It was decided by this court, in the case of Vidal v. Girard's Executors,t that the corporation of the city of Philadelphia had the power under its charter to-take real and
personal estate by deed and also by devise, inasmuch as the
English statute which excepted corporations from taking
such properties in the former mode-was not in force in that
State; that where a corporation has this power it may take
and hold property in trust in the same manner and to the
same extent- as a private person may do, even though the
trust is not strictly withifi the scope of the direct purposes
of the charter of the municipality.
Ten years later this court affirmed that same rule in the
* McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheaton, 434; Louisville v.Commonwealth,
1 Duvall, 295; National Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wallace, 353; Veazie
Bank v. Fenno, 8 Id. 533.
t 2 Howard, 127.,

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED

STATES V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

385

Opinion of Cliflbrd and Miller; JJ., dissenting.

case of The Executors of i~cDb'nogh v. Murdoch* which gave
three millions of dollars to the city of Baltimore and more
than a half-million of dollars to the city of New Orleans.
Both of those corporations, it was held in that case, were
empowered to take the property by devise, as the laws of the
respective States do not prohibit such dispositions of prop.erty in their favor, affirming the principle that such corporations may take real and personal estate by deed or devise,
and that they hold such property in trust in the same manner and to the same extent as private persons, and the statistics will show that such corporations have become. the
grantees or devisees of vast amounts of personal and real
estate, and that many of them still hold and enjoy the same
for the income, rents, and profits.
Apply the rule here suggested to the case before the court
and it is clear, whether it be held that the tax was levied
upon the municipal corporation or the railroad company,
that the judgment should be reversed.

NOTE.

Soon after the opinion of the court in the preceding case was
delivered, a motion was made by 31essrs. Gowen, Biddle, and
Cuyler, the counsel of the different railroad companies, in the
case of Barnes v. Railroad Conpanies, decided five weeks before
it, for a rehearing of that case; the grounds of the motion being
the obvious and irreconcilable contradiction between the language in one of the opinions given in the first case (see supra,
pp. 302-3, 309), which opinion the learned counsel assumed to
be the opinion of the court-and the opinion of the court in
the second case (see supra, pp. 326-7); a contradiction which
the counsel exhibited by a juxtaposition of passages in the two
opinions.
And now, April 28th, 1873, the Chief Justice announced the
DENYING THE MoTIoN.T
order of the court
* 15 Howard, 367.

f No rehsons were assigned for the order. The reader will have perceived, probably, that notwithstanding the inconsistency of language in the

