666

THE EMILY SOUDR.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus

,TnE EMILY

SOUDER.

1. In June, 1865, the American steamer Emily Souder, owned by residents
in New York, whilst on a voyage to that port from Rio Janeiro lost her
propelling screw, and put into the port of Maranham, on the coast of
Brazil, in distress. She was towed into that portby another steamer
for which she had signalled. The captain was -without adequate funds_
to make the repairs required and furnish the vessel with the supplies
necessary to enable her to proceed on her voyage, or to pay.the expenses
of her towage into port, and of pilotage, custonr-house dues, fees of the
consul in the port, and expenses of medical attendance upon the sailors.
Both he and the owners of the vessel were unknown in Maranham, and
without credit there. Under these circumst ies the captain borrowed
of the libellants the necessary funds to Cnable him to pay thege several
expenses, and gave them drafts on the owners of the vessel'in New York
for the amount, payable thirty days- after siglit, which drafts were accepted on presentation, but were protested for non-payment; Held, 1st,
that the items of expense for towage, pilotage, custom-house dues, consular fees, and medical attendance upon the sailors stood in the same
rank with the repairs and supplies to the vessel, and that the libellants
advancing funds for their payment were equally entitled as security to
a lien upon the vessel; 2d, that the drafts were only conditional payment, and did not discharge and satisfy the original debt.
2. After -the libellants in one of the cases had agreed with the captain tb advance all the funds required by him, the libellant in the other case, who
had been first applied to by the captain, agreed to advance a portion of
the funds, and did so; Held, that this subsequent agreement did not
affect the implied hypothecation of the vessel for the whole, the advances
by both libellants having been made on the credit of the vessel and not
solely on the personal credit of the captain or owners.
3. The piesumption of law. is, in the absence of fraud or collusion, that
where advances are made to a captain in a foreign port, upon his request,
to pay for necessary repairs or supplies to enable his vessel to prosecute
her voyage, or to pay harbor dues, or for pilotage, towage, and like services rendered to the vessel, that they are made upon the credit of the
vessel as well as upon that of her owners. It is not necessary to the
existence of the hypothecation that there should be in terms any express
pledge of the vessel, or any stipulation that the credit shall be given on
her account.
4. The presumption in such cases can be repelled only by clear and satisfactory proof that the master was in possession of funds applicable to the
expenses, or of a credit of his own or of the owners of his vessel, upon
which funds could be raised by the exercise of reasonable diligence, and
that the possession of such funds or credit was known to the party
making the advances, or could readily have been ascertained by proper
inquiry.

TH-E EmILY

Oct. 1873.]

SOUDER.

Statement of the case.
5. Liens for advances of funds for the necessities, of vessels in a foreign port
have priority over existing mortgages to creditors at home.
6. 'Where advances in a foreign port are made in gold, and drafts for the
amount on the owners show that the payment to the parties making the
advances is to be also in gold, the court may direct that its decrees be
entered for the aniount in like currency.
APPEALS

from the Circuit Court for the Southern District

of New York.
The firm of Packenham Beatty & Co., and also a certain
Pritchard, filed separate libels-in the District Court of the
district just m6ntioned, against the steamer Emily Souder,
an American vessel, owned in New York. The case was
thus:
The steamer while on a voyage to that port from Rio
Janeiro in June, 1865, lost her screw, and was compelled to
put into the port of Maranham, on the coast of Brazil, for
repairs. Her captain was without funds, sufficient to meet
the expenses fo'- these repairs, and other expenses incurred
and to be incurred to enable the vessel to proceed on her
voyage. The funds in his possession did not amount to
$600, and both he and the owners of the vessel were unknown in the port of Maranham, and without credit. He
accordingly applied to the consul of the United States there
to find him a consignee, who would advance the necessary
funds and attend' to the business of the vessel. The consul
applied in company with the captain to several *persons
without success, but finally an arrangement was made which
was satisfactory, with the firm of Packenham Beatty & Co.,
merchants at that port; they to receive five per cent. commission on the amount advanced, and five per cent, commission for attending to the business of the vessel.
The steamer was repaired, and supplies furnished to en-able the vessel to proceed on her voyage, and the funds for
these items, and also to pay. the charges for towing the
vessel when disabled into port by another steamer which
had been signalled for, and for pilotage, and for the dues at
the custom-house, fees of the consul, and charges for medical attendance upon the sailors in port, were furnished by

THE, EMILY SOUDER.[u.at

[Sulk. Ot.

Statement of the case.

the libellants. The different items were all submitted to
the captain, and were approved by him before they were
paid.
Pritchard, one of the libellants, was applied to by the
captain to- advance the funds before the arrangement was
made with Packenbam Beatty & Co., the other libellants.
fHe then said th'at he would see wfhat he could do. Afterwards he cofisbnted to advance a portion of the funds. Accordingly two drafts were drawn by the captain on the
ownersf the vessel i'n New York, for the amounts advanced, and one of them was 'given to Pritchard, and the
other to Packenham Beatty & Co. The drafts were payable.
thirty days after sight in gold; the currency in which the
advances mWere made. The drafts were presented and accepted, but on their maturity'were protested for non-payment. The holders thereupon filed libels against the vessel,
producing the drafts in court on the trial, and surrendering
them for cancellation. Beatty, of the firm of Packenham.
Beatty & Co., and jritchard, both testified that the advances
in Maranham'were made on the credit of the vessel, and
would not have been made on any other condition; but that
the drafts were taken only as conditional 'payment, and not
in satisfaction of the sums advanced. The testimony of the
captain was somewhat in -conflict with this, he stating that
the advances'iVere made on the credit of the owners of the
vessel and upon drafts on them, nothing being said at the
time about bottomiy of the vessel or raising money on her
credit.
The vessel was at the time thie advances were made under
mortgage to the former owners for the purchase-money.
They wef'e obliged to take back the vessel before the libels
were'filed and they-were the claimants here.
The District Court rendered a decree in favor of the libel]ants in both cases; for the amouints' advanced by. them
respectively, with interest, and directed that the amounts
should be paid iii gold coin of 'the United States. The Circuit Court affirmed the decrees and the claimants appealed
fo this court.

Oct. 1873.]

THE EMILY SOUDER.
Opinion of the court.

2F. Charles Donohue, for'the appellants; Mr. G. Van Santvoord, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The rule announced in The Grapeshot,* and there relieved
from the supposed embarrassment of some previods decisions
of-this court, and repeated and affirmed in The Lulu,t and
The Kalorama,j and followed in The Patapsco,ยง disposes of
the main question in these cases. The steamer here had
entered the port of Maranham, on -the 'coast of Brazil,-in
distress; she had lost her propelling screw, and was t6wed
into port by another steamer, for which she had signalled.
The repairs there made to the vessel, and the supplies furnished to her, and the expenses incurred on: her account,
were necessary to render, her seaworthy and enable her to
leave the port and prosecute her voyage to N~ew York. The
captain was without adequate funds for these purposes, the
whole amount in his possession being under $600, and that
sum being insufficient to meet the contingent expenses of
the vessel. Both he and the owners of the vessel were
unknown in Maranham, and without credit there. -It was
under these circumstances that he requested the consul of
the United States in that port to obtain for him a consignee
who would attend to the business of the vessel and advance
the requisite funds. And it was only after applying without success to several parties, that he succeeded in inducing
the firm of Packenham Beatty & Co., the libellants in one
of these cases, to make the arrangement desired with the
captain. The stipulation in the arrangement for five per
cent. commission on the funds advanced, and five per cent.
commission for attending to the business of the vessel was
not unreasdnable nor unusual. The steamer was detained
at Maranham nearly five weeks, and the moneys advanced
by the libellants, it is true, were not entirely for the repairs
to the vessel and the supplies needed for the voyage; they
were intended -and applied in part to meet the expenses of
* 9 Wrallace, 129.

t 10 Id. 192.

$ Ib.204.

13 Id. 329.

670

THE EMILY SOUPER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

her towage into port and of pilotage, and to pay the 6ustomhouse dues, consular fees, and charges for medical attendance upon the sailors. These various items, however, stood
in the same rank with necessary repairs and supplies to the
vessel, and the libellants advancing funds for their payment,
were equally entitled as security to a lien upon the vessel.
The items were all submitted to the examination of the captain, and were approved by him before they were paid.
The drafts given by the captain upon the owners of the
vessel in Now York were, not received by the libellants in
discharge and satisfaction of the sums advanced. They were
received only as conditional payment. Such would be the
presumption of law in the absence of any direct evidence on
the point. For by the general commercial law of the world,
a promise to pay, whether in the form of notes or bills, is
not of itself the equivalent of payment; it is treated everywhere, in the absence of express agreement or local usage
to the contrary, as conditional payment only. On principlg,
nothing can be pa3,naent in fact except what is in truth such,
unless specially agreed to be taken as its equivalent. But
here the evidence of the libellants is direct and positive that
the-drafts were only taken as; conditional payipent, and on
the trial they were produced and surrendered for cancellation.*
Thd consent of Pritchard, the libellant in one of the cases,
to advance a portion of the funds after Packenham Beatty
& Co. had agreed to advance the whole, does not in our
judgment in any respect affect the implied hypothecation
of the vessel for the whole. The whole sum advanced was
required, and the question is not whetlfer it came from one
or more parties, or whether the advances were made at one
time or at different times, but whether they were made on
the personal credit of the captain or of the owners, or were
made on the credit of the vessel also. Arrd upon this question there can be in this case no reasonable doubt. The
presumption of law always is, in the absence of fraud or
*

The Kimball, 3 Wallace, 37; The Bark Chusan, 2 Storyj 456.

Oct. 1873.]

THE EMILY SOUDER.
Opinion of the court.

collusion, that where advances are made to a captain in a
foreign port, upon his request, to pay for necessary repairs
or supplies to enable his vessel to prosecute-her voyage, or
to pay harbor dues, or for pilotage, towage, and like s'ervices
rendered to the vessel, that they are made upon the credit
of the vessel as well as upon that of her owners. It is not
necessary to the existence of the hypothecation that there
should be in terms any expeess pledge of the vessel, or anystipulation that the credit shall be given on her account.
The presumption arises that s.uch is the fact from the necessities of the vessel, and the position of the parties considered
with reference to the motives which generally govern the
conduct of individuals. Moneys are not usually loaned to
strangef's, residents of distant and foreign count.ries, without
security, and it would be a violent presumption to suppose
that any such course was adopted when ample security in
the vessel was lying before the parties. The presumption,
therefore, that advances in such cases are made upon the
credit of the vessel is not repelled by any loose and uncertain testimony as to the suppositions or understandings of.
one of the parties. It can be repelled only by clear and.satl
isfactory proof that the master was in possession of funds
applicable to the expenses, or of a credit of his own or of the
owners of his vessel, upon which funds could be raised by
the exercise of reasonable diligence, and that the possession
of such funds or credit was known to the party making the
advances, or could readily have been ascertained by proper
inquiry.
In the cases at bar, the presumption is not only not repelled by any satisfactory evidence, but is supported by the
positive testimony of the libellants. Beatty, who appears to
have transacted the business of Packenham Beatty & Co.
with the captain, and Pritchard, both declare in the most
emphatic manner that they made the advances on the credit
of the vessel, and would not have made them on any other
condition.
The evidence of the captain, it is true, is to some extent
in conflict with their testimony, but considering the circum-

.672

LIFE LiSURANOE. OOMPANY V. FRANCISCO.

[Sup. Ct.

&ylab~s.

.stances.under which the advances were'rade, it, is, entitled,
as against their direct and positive dbclarhti6ns, td little
weight. -Perhaps, as suggested by the Giretfit'Oourt in its
opinion, the inferences 6f the captdin we'e ilot theresult Of
any intended untrhth on his part, butwere drawn from the
fact ,that nothing' was said- during the negotiation fur advances in'timatiug i4 terms that the libellafitg wdr to have
a,lien upor the Vessel.
The fact that the vessol was; at the time the advalces
were-made- under, mortgage to thdclaitant , does not stibordiiiate'the Aiwnof th-e libellnts to the claiiii of the mortgagees,' Fundgfurni~hed in a foreign'pbi't, under the circurnstances aid for the purposes mentioned in this -case,
have priority"'as, lien upon th vessel over: existing mortgages. Advanced for the security 6id-protection of the
vessel, they were for t]e benefit of the mortgagees as vell
as of the-owbers. If lien's created by the necessities of vessels ih a'foreigh port could be subordinated to or displaced
by mortgages to prior creditors at home, such liens would
sooi cease to he r~garded as having any certain value, or as
affodiking any reliable scchrity.
As the advances were in gold; and the drafts onr the ownSe's in New rYork show that the payment to tle' libellints
vas'to be made also in gold, the -court below riled rightly
in directin~g its decrees to be entered for the amount due
themn in' like currency.*
DECOR9 AFFIRMBD in both cdses, with interest and costs.

LIFE INSU6RANCE COMPANY V. FRANCISCO.
1. 'When, under the terms of a policy of life insurance, the representatives
of the party assured are to furnish, within a certain time after the death
of the assured, 11due proof of the just claim, of the assured,'-if the
party claiming the insurance-money have within the time furnished
answers written out in the presence of the insurers' agent, to certain
'.

Bi6fison'x'. :flode ':7AVallaee, 229' Trebilcoik,;v; Wil;s n,42 Id. 687.

