Oct. 1873.]

OUTNER V.

UNITED STATES.

Syllabus.

covered by the marine risk she had assumed, are questions
not before us, and which we need not, therefore, consider.
The claim of per diem compensation for the time the
marshal held the vessel, is the only ground of controversy
between the parties, and it is the only subject open for examination in this case.
During that time, she was in the custody of the law, she
was in no wise in the employment of the United States nor
subject to their control. She did not, and could not render
them any service while thus held.
The United States had not stipulated to pay in such a
contingency. On the contrary, the detention was incident
to the marine risk which the owners had expressly assumed.
It was a fruit of that peril. The United States are not
blameworthy, and not responsible. The contract puts all
such burdens upon the shoulders of the owners. Those burdens cannot be shifted and thrown upon the other patty.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

OUTNER v. UNITED STATES.
1. A sale made without "a license to trade," by a loyal citizen of the United
States, on the 6th of March, 1865, when Savannah was occupied by the
Federal troops, to a loyal citizen of New York, of cotton which had
been returned by the owner, registered, and taken into possession by the
United States, and sent for sale to New York under the Captured and
Abandoned Property Act, held void, although the bill of sale of the
cotton authorized the attorney of the vendors to receive the proceeds of
sale and pay them to the vendees, and was thus argued to have been not
a sale of the cotton at Savannah, Georgia, but a sale of claim in Washington, D. 0. This was apparently decided under the act of July 13th,
1861, prohibiting and making unlawful "all commercial intercourse between the inhabitants of any State proclaimed to be in a state of insurrection against the United States, and the citizens of the rest of the
United States, so long as such condition of hostility should continue ;"
and the act of July 2d, 1864, making the prohibition applicable to all
commercial intercourse to persons being within districts within the lines
of National military occupation in such States.

CUTNER

V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
2. Held further, the fall consideration-money of the purchase having been
paid, that the vendor could not sustain a suit id the Court of Claims for
the proceeds of the cotton, for the use of the vendee; that the vendor
was not entitled to sue for himself, because he had been paid in full; nor
entitled to sue for his vendee, because the sale was unlawful and void.
APPEAL from the Cout't of Claims; the case as found by
that court was thus:
Cutner, a loyal citizen of the United States, resident at
Savannah, Georgia, one of the States which went into rebellion, was, on the 21st of December, 1864, the owner of thirty
bales of cotton. On th6 day just named Savannah was captured by the army of the United States. On the 23d of
February, 1865, Cutuer reported his cotton to the commanding officer, and it was registered, in compliance with general
military orders, by the Treasury agents in his name; and on
the 3d of March following taken into the custody of the
Treasury agents of the United'States and shipped to New
York, and There sold by the United States; the net proceeds,
amounting to $6897, being paid into the Treasury.
On the 6th of March, 1865, Cutner-executed a bill of sale
of the cotton specifically, and describing it as "all that certain lot and quantity of cotton, viz., thirty bales of cotton,
marked S. C.," to Sehiffer & Co., of New York, and received at the time, from one Stewart, the attorney and agent
of Schi-fer & Co., $2250, the entire consideration named in
the bill of sale. The bill of sale recited thatthe cotton sold
was the same which he, Cutner, bad described in a petition
of March 6th, 1865, to the President of the United States;
and it authorized Stewart, the attorney, "to pay over to
Schiffer & Co. any an4 all proceeds which may 'arise from
the same when sold." At the time of this sale Schiffer & Co.
had no license to trade with the enemy.
By act -ofJuly 13th, 1861,* it was enacted, that "all commercial intercourse" between the inhabitants of any State,
or any section, or part thereof, who the President should
declare "were in a state of insurrection against the United
12 Stat. at Large, 257.

Oct. 1873.1

GUTNER V. UNITED STATES.
Argument for the appellant.

States," and the citizens of the rest of the United States
should "cease and be unlawful so long as such condition of
hostility shall continue."
By proclamation of August 16th, 1862,* the President
declared the State of Georgia to be in such stat of insurrection.
By the act of July 2d, 1864,t the prohibitions upon commercial intercourse with the territory in rebellion, are made
to apply "to all commercial intercourse by and between
persons residing or being within districts within the present
or future lines of National military occupation in the States
or parts of States declared in insurrection, whether with
each other or with persons residing or being within districts
declared in insurrection, and not within those lines."
It was not denied by Cutner, or Schiffer & Co., or at the
bar, that the sale had been made in Savannah.
In this state of things Cutner, suing for the use of Schiffer
& Co., filed a petition in the court below, under the provisions of the Captured and Abandoned Property Act, asking for restitution of the proceeds of the cotton in the
Treasury.
The Court of Claims held:
1. That Schiffer was the real and beneficial claimant in
this suit, although Cutner was the nominal one.
2, That the pretended transfer of the cotton by Cutner to
Schlfer, on 6th March, 1865, was in violation of the nonintercourse acts of Congress and the President's proclamations made subsequent thereto, and therefore inoperative to
clothe the real claimant, Schiffer, with a valid title to the
cotton, or to vest in him a right to the proceeds thereof.
The court accordingly dismissed the petition. Hence this
appeal.
Messrs. A. G. Biddle and A. L. Merriman,for the appellant:
There was no violation of the law restrictin,1'commercial
intercourse in this transaction. However the subject of
* 12 Stat. at Large, 1262.

t 13 Id. 376,

4.

CU NER V. UNTTED STA _ES.

[Sup. Ct.

'Opinion of the court.

sale is described in the bill of sale, the property sold was a
claim against the United States for thirty bales of cotton or
the proceeds of them, and, as a matter of course, was situated at the seat of government. Then the purchasers were,.
loyal citizens of a loyal State, and being such, could not be
presumed to have intended to send the fruits of such contract to the aid of the insurrectionary government, even if
it were possible (which it was not) to have obtained the
subject-matter of the trade from the government before sale
thereof.
Messrs. G. H. Williams, Attorney-General, and C. i. .fll,
Assistant Attorney- General, contra:
In any view the sale was unlawful. The State of Georgia,
in which Savannah was, had been declared by a proclamation of the President, "in a state of insurrection against
the United States." Though occupied by our. forces, the
"-state of hostility still continued." The case comes, therefore, within the act of July 13th, i861. It comes also
*within the later act of July 2d, 1864; for the sale and purchase-the "commercial dealing "--was made "with each
other "by and between parties "being within districts within
the lines of National military occupation, in a State declared
in insurrection."
,Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Intercourse between the inhabitants of the two belligerent
sections was still prohibited when this sale was made. It
was, therefore, clearly illegal, unless Schiffer & Co. had a
license to trade in Savannah, which the case expressly finds
they had not. The sale being illegal, the suit can'not be
sustained for the benefit of the vendees. It cannot be silstained for Cutner's own benefit, because he received the full
consideration of the cotton and has no interest remaining.
DECREE AFFIRMED..

