Oct. 1878.] -

THE STAR OF HOPE.
Syllabus.

defendants claimed, and that the premises, so far as they lay
below the line of low-water mark, belonged to the State.
It is not for us to express any opinion as to what would
be our construction of the act had the Supreme Court of
the State never spoken on the subject. In -the construction
of the statutes of a State, and especially those affecting titles
to real property, where no Federal question arises, this court
follows the adjudications of the highest court of the State.
Its. interpretation is accepted as the true interpretation,

whatever may be our opinion of its original soundness. It
becomes a part of the statute, as mush so as if incorporated
into the body of it, and in following the statute as thus interpreted we only apply to a local question the law of the
place. As has been often remarked, infinite mischiefs would
result if, in construing State statutes affecting titles to real
property, where no Federal question is involved, a. different
rule were adopted by the Federal tribunals from that of the
State courts.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE STAR OF HOPE.
Nuts in bags and boxes were shipped at New York to be delivered at San
that if nuts are stowed-in the
Francisco. It was shown on ther t-ial
hold an this voyage they are very liable to be'injured by s~veat; that it
is the almost invariable practice to carry them in the cabin, or cabin
state-rooms; and to bnter them on the bill of lading as to be thus carried;
and that if they are carried in the hold they are sometimes inclosed in
water-tight oil casks in order to keep them in proper condition. The
packages in this case were all marked " in cabin state-room." The contract of the bill of lading was that the goods should be delivered in San
Francisco " in good order and condition, dangers of the seas, fire, and
collisions excepted." The-goods were placed in the hold without notice
to the sippers, and were damaged on the voyage by sweating. Held,
that in view of the almost invariable practice as to the stowage of nuts
on this voyage, of the well-known fact that if stowed in the hold -they
are extremely liable to be injured by sweat, and of the marks and directions on the packages in question in this case, it was culpable negligence

THE

STAR OF

HOPE.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the ship-owner.
in the master of the vessel to stow them in the hold, and that the vessel
was liable aecordiuigly.

APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the District of Cali-

.fornia.
Church & Clark libelled the ship Star of Hope, in the District Court for California, for damages done to a quantity of
nuts in bags and boxes, which had been shipped at New
York on board of the said vessel, to be delivered to them at
San Francisco. It was clearly shown on the trial that if
nuts are stowed in the hold on this voyage they are very
liable to be injured by sweat; that it is the almost invariable
practice to carry them in the cabin, or cabin state-rooms, and
to enter them on the bill of lading as to be thus carried;
and that if they are carried in the hold they are 'sometimes
inclosed in water-tight oil casks in order to keep them in
proper condition. The packages in this case were all marked
"in cabin state-room," and when they were delivered for
shipment receipts were given by the, receiving clerk of the
vessel, specifying in the margin the marks of the goods, including the direction above quoted. But the bill of lading,
which was received by the shippers after the parcels were
delivered, omitted any allusion to this direction. It contracted simply that the goods should be delivered in San
Francisco "in gbod order and condition, dangers of the sea,
fire, and collisions excepted." The goods were placed in the
hold without notice to the shippers, and havingibeen injured
on the voyage this libel was filed for damages.
The. District Court decreed in favor of the libellants; and
the Circuit Court having affirmed the decree, this appeal
brought the case here for review.
Mi C. Donohue, for the appellant:
The only contract that binds the parties, and on which
all parties are compelled to rely, is the bill of lading. The
contract being in writing, that alone must govern. This
was
the decision of this court in The -Delaware;*a decision
* '14Wallace, 579.

Oct. 1873.]

THE STAR OF HOPE.

"653

Argument for the shipper.

the more authoritative since it was made, as the repQrt of
the case. shows, after one of the fullest, ablest, -and most
learned arguments at the bar, on the other side of the question, which it was possible to make. That case also decided
that a "clean" bill of lading, that is to say, a bill which was
silent as to the place of stowage, imports a contract that the
goods are to be stowed under deck. But it has never been
decided, nor, so far as we kfnow, supposed that such a bill
imports a colitract that goods are to be stowed in the cabin.
state-room; 5 place not appropriated to the stowage of
goods at all.
As, therefore, no particular place was specified for the
stowage of the goods, they were sufficiently stowed when
they were stowed in the ordinary place-the place where,
according to The Delaware, the bill imported that they should
be stowed, i. e., anywhere between decks in the hold.
The "sweating" was a danger of the sea; an excepted
danger, therefore, under the bill of lading.
r. 0. E. Whit'head, contra:
1. A clean bill of lading imposes an obligation to store
under the deck. This, we agree with the other side in saying,
was decided ih-The Delaware. Now the °agreement to store
in the cabin is not an agreement in contradiction to that
implied obligation. On the contrary it is ancillary to it,
and aids it in a point upon which the bill of lading is silent.
A written contract may always lie thus aided.*
2. The libellants proved "a custom of trade" -to store
nuts in the cabin, and having hhown that nuts stored otherwise would be injured, the master is chargeable with negligence for storing in the hold, whether he gave a bill of
lading or not, or whether there was an express agreement or
not.t- In Blak v. Stembridge,$ an action was brought by a
Bonney v. Morrill, 57 Maine, 372; Blossom v. Griffin, 13 New York,
569; Witbeck v. Waine, 16 Id. 535; Filkins v. Whyland, 24 Id. 338.
- Angell on the Law of Carriers,4th ed., 187, and cases there cited; Lamb
v. Parkman, 1 Sprague, 343.
$ 6 Jurist, New Series, 1128.

THE STAR OF HOPE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

shipper for damages occasioned by sweat on a voyage from
China, by reason of improper stowage. The court held that
the question of negligence would be governed by the custom
of trade, and if the goods were stowed according to the
customary way in that particular trade, the vessel would be
absolved; otherwise not.
8. The receiving dlerk of the vessel when the nuts were
delivered for shipment, gave what amounted to a receipt,
that they were to be carried "in cabin state-room." Given
as this receipt was, it must be considered as so far forming
part of the bill of lading, that the latter must be read by its
light. Contemporaneous written documents are to be construed together.*
Indeed, the court, on trial, could at any time have amended
the bill of lading, as was done in ChOuteaux v. Leech,t in
regard to anything omitted therefrom through a clerical
error, and contrary to the understanding of the parties.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The claimant insists that the bill of lading is the only
contract binding on him, and as that did not specify any
particular place for the stowage of the goods, they were
properly stowed between decks in the hold.
This is not a sufficient answer to the libellants' case. The
contract of the bill of lading was, that the goods should be
delivered in San Vrancisco "in good order and condition,
dangers of the seas, fire,.and collisions excepted." The defence is to the effect that "sweating" is one of the dangers
of the seas. But if the sweating be produced in consequence
of negligent stowage, the claimantis precluded from setting
up the defence. If cosily mirrors are stowed amongst loose
articles of hard'ware,-or if a case inclosing valuable statuary,
aud marked "This side up with care," is placed upside down
aynongst a lot of pig-iron, the claimant could hardly contend
that lie is protected from responsibility by the clause relating to the dangers of the seas. In this matter, as in all
* Hunt v. Livermore, 5 Pickering, 395.

t 18 Pennsylvania State, 224.

-

Oct. 1873.]

MILLER v. JOSEPH.
Statement of the case.

others, due care and its 'opposite' negligence, are relative
terms, having respect to the nature of the duty to be performed, the knowledge communicated to the party to be
charged, and -the prevailing usages of the business. In view
of the Atlmost invariable practice as to the stowage of nuts
on this voyage, of the well-known fact that if stowed in the
hold they are extremely liable to be injured by sweat, and
of the marks and directions on the packages in question in
this case, it was culpable negligence in the master of the
vessel to stow them in the hold. If he could not stow them
as directed, he should, at least, have given notice to the
shippers.
This view of the case is sufficient to dispose of it without
deciding whether the evidence in reference to the stowage
of nuts established a custom of the trade ii the proper
sense of that term, or whether the shipping receipts were-a
part of the contract of affreightment.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH INTEREST AND COSTS.

MILLER V. JOSEPH ET AL.
A writ of error from the Supreme Court of the United States to review the
judgment of a'State court must be issued to the highest court of the
State in which a decision of the case could be had, even if that court be
an inferior court-of the State. Accordingly, ivhere a Circuit Court of
Virginia had jurisdiction to-decide a case finally, the Court of Appeals
of that State not having jurisdiction to review the decision, by reason
of the amount in controversy being under $500, a writ of error from
this court issued to the Court of Appeals was dismissed. If allowable at
all, the writ should have been issued to the Circuit Court.

EAROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia; the
case beii-g thus:
In 1868 one Joseph recovered a judgment in the Circuit
Court of Rockingham County, Virginia, against a certain.
Miller for a sum less than $500-costs and interest included
-and issued execution thereon. In 1869 Miller filed a bill

