Oct. 1873.]

ADAMS V. BURKE.
Statement of the case.

on account of color, where slavery obtained, which was the
subject of discussion at the time, and not the fact that the
colored race could not ride in the cars at all. Congress, in
the belief that this discrimination was unjust, acted. It told
this company, in substance, that it could extend its road
within the District as desired, but that this discrimination
must cease, and the colored and white race, in the use of
the cars, be placed on an equality. This condition it had
the right to impose, and in the temper of Congress at the
time, it is manifest the grant could not have been made
without it. It was the privilege of the company to reject
it, but to do this, it must reject the whole legislation with
which it was connected. It canunot accept a part and repudiate the rest. Having, therefbre, constructed its road as it
was authorized to do, and in this way greatly added to the
value of its property, it will be held to a faithful compliance
with all the terms accompanying the grant by which it was
enabled to secure this pecuniary advantage.
In our opinion there is no error in the record, and the
judgment below must be
AFFIRMED.

ADAMS

v.

BURKE.

a patentee has assigned his right to manufacture, sell, and use
1. 'here
within a limited district an instrument, machine, or other manufactured
product, a purchaser of such instrument or machine, when rightfully
bought within -the prescribed limits, acquires by such purchase the right
to use it anywhere, without reference to other assignments of territorial
rights by the same patentee.
2. The right to the use of such machines or instruments stands on a different
ground from the right to make and sell them, and inheres in the nature
of a contract of purchase, which carries no implied limitation of the
right of use within a given locality.
.APPEAL from the Circuit Court fbr the District of Massachusetts; the case being thus:
On the 26th day of May, 1863, letters-patent were granted

ADAMS

v. BuR'.

I[Sup.

Ot.

Statement of the case.

to Merrill & Horner, for a certain improvement in coffinlids, giving to them the exclusive right of making, using,
and vending to others to be used, the said improvement.
On the 13th day of March, 1865, Merrill & Homer, the
patentees, by an assignment duly executed and -recorded,
assigned to Lockhart & Seelye, of Cambridge, in Middlesex
County, Massach-usetts, all the right, title* and interest which
the said patentees had in the invention described in the said
letters-patent, for, to, and in a circle whose radius is ten
miles, having the city of Boston as a centre. They subsequntly assigned the patent, or wvhat right they retained in
it, to on Adams.
Adams now filed a bill in the court below, against-a certain Burke, an-undertaker, who used iii the town of Natick
(a town about seventeen--miles from Boston, and therefore
outside of the circle above mentioned) coffins with lids of
the kind patented, alleging him to be an infringer of their
patent, and praying for an injunction, discovery, profits, and
other relief suitable against an infringer.
The defendant pleaded in bar:
"That he carries on the business of an undertaker, having
his place of business in Natick, in said district; that, in the exercise of his said business, he is employed to bury the dead;
th: when so nmployed it is his custom to procure hearses, coffins, and whatever else 'iay be necessary or proper for burials,
and to superintend the preparation of graves, and that his bills
for his services, in each case, and the coffin, hearse, and other
articles procured by him, are paid by the personal representatives of the deceased; that, since the date of the alleged assignment to the plaintiff of an interest in the invention secured by
the said letters-patent, he has sold no coffifns, unless the use of
coffins by him in his said business, as above described,' shall be
deemed a sale; has used no coffins, except in-his said business
as aforesaid; and has manufactured no coffins containing the
said invention; and that since the said date he has used in his
business as aforesaid, in Natick, no coffin containing the invention secured by said letters-patent, except such coffins containing'
said invention as have been manufactured by said Lockhart &
Seelye, within a circle, whose radius is ten miles, having the

Oct. 1873.]

ADAMS

v.

BUR KE.

Opinion of the court.

city of Boston as its centre, and sold within said circle by said
Lockhart & Seelye, without condition or restriction."
The validity of this plea was the question in the case. The
court below, referring to the case of Bloomer v. 1eQuewan,*
in which Taney, 0. J., delivering the opinion of the court,
said:
" When a machine passes to the hands of the purchaser, it is
no longer within the limits of the monopoly. It passes outside
of it, and is no longer under the protection of the act of Congress."
And referring also to some other cases, held that the plea
was good. And from a decree which followed, dismissing,
of course, the bill, this appeal was taken.
ir. C. B. Goodrich, for the appellant; Messrs. R. H. Dana
and L. S. .Dabney, eontra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented by the plea in this case is a very
interesting one in patent law, and the precise point in it has
never been decided by this court, though cases involving
some of tle considerations which -apply to it have been decided, and others of analogous character are frequently recurring. The vast pecuniary results involved in such cases,
as well as the public interest, admonish us to proceed ith
care, and to- decide in each case no more than what is directly in"issue.
We have repeatedly held that where a person had purchased a patented machine of the patentee or his assignee,
this purchase carried with it the right to the use of that machine so long as it was capable of use, and that the expiration
and renewal of the patent, whether in favor of the original
patentee or of his assignee, did not affect this right. The
true ground on which these decisions rest is that the sale by
a person who has the full right to make, sell, and use such a
machine carries with it the right to the use of that machine
to the full extent to which it can be used in point of time.
* 14 Howard, 549.

456'

ADA S

v. BUTRKE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The right to manufacture, the right to sell, and the right
to use are each substantive rights, and may be granted or
conferred. separately by the patentee.
Bui, iu the. essential nature of things, when the patentee,
or the person having his rights, sells a machine or instrument whose sole value is in its use, he receives the consideration for its use and he parts with the right to restrict that
use. The artidle, in the language of the, court, passes without the limit'of the monopoly.* That is to say, the patentee
or his assignee having in the act of sale received all the
royalty or consideration which he claims for the use of his
invention in that particular machine or instrument, it is
bpen to the use of. the purchaser without further restriction
on accbunt of the monopoly of the patentees.
If'this principle be sound as to a machine or instrument
whose use may be continued for a number of years, and may
extend beyond the existence of the patent, as limited at the
time of the sale, and into the period of a renewal or extension, it must be much more applicable to an fnstrument or
product of patented manufacture which perishes in the first
use of it, or which, by that first use, becomes incapable of
fur-ther use, and of no further value. -Such is the case with
the coffin-lids of appellant's patent.
It -eems to us that, although the right of Lockhart &
Se'elye to manufacture, to sell, and to use these coffin-lids
was limited to the circle of tea miles around Boston, that a
purchaser from them of a single coffin acquired the right to
use that coffin for the purpose for which all coffins are used.
That so far as the use of it was concerned, the patentee had
received his consideration, and it was no longer within the
monopoly of the patent. It would be to engraft a limitation
upon the right of use not contemplated by the statute nor
within the reason of the contract to say that it could only
be used within the ten-miles circle. Whatever, therefore,
may be the rule when patentees subdivide territorially their
patents, as to the exclusive right to make or to sell within a
Blbomer . lcQuewan, 14 Howard, 649; Mitchell v. Hawley, 16 Wallace, 644.

Oct. 1873.]

ADAMS

v. BURiE.

Opinion of Bradley, Swayne, and Strong, JJ., dissenting.

limited territory, we hold that in the class of machines or
implements we have described, when they are once- lawfully
made and sold, there is no restriction on their use to be
implied for the benefit of the patentee or his assignees or
ficensees.
A careful examination of the plea satisfies us that the defendant, who, as ail undertaker, purchased each of these
coffins and used it in burying the body which he was employed to bury, acquired the right to this use of it freed
from any ejaim of the patentee, though purchased within
the ten-mile circle and used without it.
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the plaintiff's
bill is, therefore,
AFEIiMED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY (with whom concurred Justices
SWAYTE and STRONG), dissenting:
The question raised in this case is whether an assignment
of a patented invention for a.limited district, such as a city, a
county, or a State, confers upon the assignee the right to sell
the patented article to be used outside of such limited distrilct. The defendant justifies under such a claim. He uses
a patented article outside of the territory within which the
patent was assigned to the persons from whom he purchased
it. The plaintiff, who claims under the original patentee,
complains that this is a transgression of the limits of the
assignment.
If it were a question of legislative policy, whethvr a patentee should be allowed to divide up his monopoly into territorial parcels, it might admit of grave doubt whether a
vendee of the patented article purchasing it rightfully,
ought to be restrained or limited as to the place of its use.
But the patent act gives to the patentee a monopoly of use,
as well as of manufacture, throughont the whole United
States; and the eleventh section of the act (of 1836) expressly
authorizes not only an assignment of the whole patent, or any
undivided part thereof, but a "grant and conveyance of the
exclusive right under any patent, to make and use, and to

ADAMS V. BURKE.[

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of.Bradley, Swayne, and Strong, JJ7., dissenting.

grant to bthers to make and use the thing patented within
and throughout any specified part or portion of the United
States."*
If an assignment under this clause does not confer the
same rights within the limited district which the patentee
himself previously had in the whole United States, and no
more, it is difficult to know what meaning to attach to language however plain.
On the 26th day of May, 1868, letters-patent were granted
to Merrill & Horner,for a, certain improve ment in coffin-lids,
giving to them the exclusive right of making, using, and

vending to'others to be used, the said improvement.
On the 13th day of March, 1865, Merrill & Horner, the
patentees, by an assignment duly executed and recorded,
did assign to Lockhart & Seelye, of Cambridge, in Middlesex County, Massachusetts, all the right, title, and interest
which the said patentees had in the invention described in
the said letters-patent, for, to, and in a circle whose radius
is ten miles, having 'the city pf Boston -as a centre. By
necessary consequence (as it seems to ne), the iight thus
assigned consisted of-the exclusive right'to.make, use, and
vend the .improved coffin-lid within' the- limited territory
described; but did not- include any right to make, use, or
vend the same outside of those limits. As tfli assignied right
to make tre lids was a restricted right, limited to the territory; so .-the assigned right to usi them was a restricted
right limted in the same manner. Each right is conveyed
by precisely the same language. A different construction
would defeat the intent of the parties. For if the assignees,
after making any number of lids within the limited district,
could use them or authorize -others to use them outside of
the district, the balance of the monopoly remaining in the
hands of the patentees might be rendered of little value.
If it be contended that the right of vending the lids to
others enables them to confer upon their vendees the right
* Washburn v. Gould, 3 Story, 131; Blanchard r. Eldridge, 1 Wallace,
Jr., 389.

Oct. 1873.]

A&DAMS

v. :BURKE.

Opinion of Bradley Swayne, and Strong, JJ., dissenting.

to use the lids thus sold outside of the limited district, the
question at once arises, how can they confer upon their
vendees a right which they cannot exercise themselves?
The only consistent construction to be given to such an
assignment is, to limit all the privileges conferred by-it to
the district marked out. It is an assignment of the mannfacture and use of the patented article within that district,
and within that district only.
Difficulties may, undoubtedly, be suggested in special
cases. If the patented thing be an article of wearing apparel, sold by the assignee within his district, it is confidently
asked, cannot the purchaser wear the article outside of the
district? The answer to acute suggestions of this sort would
probably be found (in the absence of all bad faith in the
parties) in the maxim de minimis non aurat lex.
On the other hand, the difficulties and the injustice which
would follow from a contrary construction to that which I
contend for, are very obvious. Take the electric telegraph,
for example. Suppose Professor Mo:se had assigned his
patent within and for the New England States. Would
such an assignment authorize the vendees of his assignees
to use the apparatus in the whole United States? Take the
planing machine: would an assignment from Woddworth
pf his patent within and for the State of Vermont, authorize
the assignees to manufacture machines ad libitum, and sell
them to parties to be used in other States? So of Hoe's
printing press, and a thousand other machines and inventions of like sort.
Such a doctrine would most seriously affect not only the
assignor (as to his residuary right in his patent), but the
assignee also. For if it be correct, there would be nothing
to prevent the patentee himself, after assigning his -patent
within a valuable city or other locality, from selling the
patent machine or article to be used within the assigned district. By this means, the assignment could be, and iii numberless instances would be, rendered worthless. Millions of
dollars have been invested by manufacturers and mechanics
in these limited assignments of patents in our manufacturing

Pi1Tp V. NOoK.

['Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

districts and towns, giving them, as they have supposed, the
monopoly of the patented machine or article within the district purchased. The decision of the court in this case will,
in my view, utterly destroy the value of a great portion of
this property.
I do not regard the authorities cited as establishing a different doctrine from that now contended for. The remark
of Chief Justice Taney, in Bloomer v. ikcQuewan, that "when
a machine passes to the hands of a purchaser, it is no longer
within the limits of the monopoly; it passes outside of it,
and i6 no longer under the protection of the act of Congress,"
is perfectly true in the sense and application in which the
Chief Justice made it. He was speaking of time, not territory; of the right to use a machine after the original patent had expired and a renewal had been granted, not bf
using it in a place outside of the grant. All the effects
mentioned by the Chief Justice would undoubtedly follow
so far forth as it was in the power of the vendor to produce
them, but no further. And he would never have contended
that those effects would follow any further than tire vendor's
power to produce them extended- That is the very question in this case. How far did the assignee's interest aud,
therefore, his power extend? In my judgment it was limited iu locality, both as to manufacture and use, and that lie
could not convey to another what he did not have himself.
I hold, therefore, thdt the dec"ee should be reversed.

PIHLP ET AL. V. NoCK.
In a suit by a patebtee, for damages against an infringer, the plaintiff can
recover only for actual damages, and he must show the damages by evidence. They cannot be left to conjecture by the jury. 'Where he has
sought his profit in the form of a royalty paid by his licensees and there
are no peculiar circumstances, the amount to be recovered will be regulated by that standard. Counsel fees cannot be Lacluded in the verdict,
and an instruction which directed thq jury to award to the plaintiff
""such sum as they shouldfind to be requiredl to remunerafe him for the
loss sustained by the wrongful act of the defeadants, and to .-reimburse
himfor-al such expenditures as have beennecessarily incurred by him in

