UNITED STATES-v. BOUTWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the cse.

at&d.while it was legal to create an agency. In each case,
also, existed the important fact that the transaction of purchase took place' after the parties became residents of hostile
p'rtions of the same State. Burridge was appointed the
agent of Johnson in Montgomery's case, as was the agreement in this case- made \vith Avegno, and, the money advanced by him, while the parties were all residents of and
under the control of the Confederate government. But the
cotton was sold by Burridge, as here the cotton was purchased by the clerk after this relation had ceased. In each
instance the purchase of the cotton was a transaction with
an alien enemy.

The agency to purchase cotton was terminated by the hostile position of the parties. The agency to receive'payment
of debts due to Lapene & Co. may well have continued.
But Avegno was no debtor to that firm. He advanced
money to their agent when it was legal to do so. With tlfis
money, and other moneys belonging to then, while in an
enemys country, the agent of the-plaintiffs bought the cotton in question. This purchase gave effectual aid to the
enemy by furnishing to them the sinews of war. It was
forbidden by the soundest principles of public law. The
purchaser obtained no title to the cotton, and has no claim
against the government for its capture.
JUDG

FNT REVERSED.

Dissenting, Mr. Justice MILLER and Mr. Justice FIELD.

UNITED STATES V. BOUTWELL.In the absence of. statutory provision to the contrary, a mandamus against
an officer of the government abates on his death or retirement from
His successor in office cannot be brought in by way of amenA- offi e.
ment of the proceeding or on an order foi the substitutibn of parties.

Mr.1. W. Corwine, in behalf of the owhgers of .
an order on the Treasury of the United States, had applied
ON MOTION.

Oct. 1873.]

UNITED STATES V. BOUTWELL.

605

Argument for the motion.

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia for a mandamns on the Hon. G. S. Boutwell, then Secretary of the
Treasury, to pay it. That court refused the mandamus, and
the case was brought, on error, by the relators here. After
it had got into this court, Mr. Boutwell resigned his place
of Secretary and the Hon. W. A. Richardson was appointed
to it.. Hereupon Mr. Corwine moved for leave to bring in
and substitute Mr. Richardson on the record as defendant in
the place of Mr. Boutwell. It did ,not appear that any application had been made to Mr. Richardson as Secretary to
pay the draft. Mr. Richardson, by his counsel, opposed the
motion.
Messrs. 1. X. and Q. Corwine, in support of the motion:
We assume, for the purpose of our argument, that the claim
of the relators is ajust one, and that the order on the treasury
held by them ought to be paid. That in such a case they
ought to certainly have the assistance of the courts cannot
be denied. But how, practically, can they certainly have it
if they cannot have the substitution asked for? and if,on
the contrary, the right to any writ has abated by the resignation of Mr. iBoutwell? Rarely dQes any officer of the
Cabinet long remain in office. In that department which
specially concerns this court, for example, since 1864---that
is to say, in nine years-seven attorneys-general have been
in and out of these precincts. If a claimant on the treasury
must proceed de novo against each successive secretary he
will rarely see the end of his suit, for a secretary rarely remains in office for as long a time as in the "law's delay" a
suit is pending. Such a doctrine, therefore, as is contended
for on the other side is a practical denial of justice.
But why should such a doctrine prevail ? We seek relief
not against Mr. Boutivell, but against the Secretary of the
Treasury of the United States. Until he c6mes into place,
Mr. Boutwell is as nothing to us, and he isas nothing to us
from the moment that he leaves place. The person is nothing; the place or office everything. The obligation on which
we rely arises from the acceptance of an office, which has rim-

UNITED STATES V. BOUTWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the motion:

posed a duty on its incumbent. Why; then, when one secretary departs shall not the new one be substituted for him ?
The Sapphire,* in this court, seems in point. There a libel
had been filed by the then Emperor of the French, Napoleon
III, against the Sapphire, an American vessel, for injuries
done to the French ship Euiyale. Before the cause came fo
be heard Napoleon III was deposed. And one question was
whether the suit had not abated. The counsel for the respondents argued that the Euryale was a vessel of the French
government, with which Napoleon had "nothing whatever
now to do, being banished and a fugitive." But this court
said:
"The reigning emperor, or national assembly, or other actual
person or party in power, is but the agent and representative
of the national sovereignty. A change in such representativeworks no change in the national sovereignty or its rights. The
next successor recognized by our government is competent to
carry on a suit already commenced, and receive the fruits of it.
"If a substitution of -names is necessary or proper, it is a
formal matter, and can be made by'tbe court under its general
power to preserve due symmetry in its forms of proceeding."
Mandamus is in the nature of a suit at common law.
After institution, its conduct and management are governed
by the pleadings and practice which pertain to like suits,
whether in the Circuit or in the Supreme Court, on writ of
error. All such amendments as can be made in suits at law
may be made in suits of mandamus. The strict rules appertaining to the old writ of right, as this writ was once called,
have no longer any application in this country. New parties, plaintiff or defendant, maybe made upon a proper case.
The death of either party does not necessarily abate the suit.
Upon a proper case, orders for the substitution of parties
will be made as a mailer of course.t
If this were a proceeding against Mr. Boutwell individu* 11 Wallace, 168.

t Maddox v. Graham, 2 Metcalfe, 56; Hollister & Smith v. The Judges,
&c., 8 Ohio State, 201.

Oct. 1873.]

UNITED STATES v.

BOUTWELL.

Opinion of the court.

ally, and he were dead, there could be no question of ourright to bring in his representatives under this rule.
Mr.C. ii. Hill, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The office of a writ of mandamus is to compel the performance of a duty resting upon the person to whom the
-writ is sent. That duty may have originated in one way or
in another. It may, as is alleged in the present case, have
arisen from the acceptance of an office which has imposed
the duty upon its incumbent. .But no matter out of what
facts or relations the duty has grown, what the law regards
and what it seeks to enforce by a writ of mandamus, is the
personal obligation of the individual to whom it addresses
the writ. If he be an officer, and the duty be an official
one, still the writ is aimed exclusively against him as a person, and he only can be punished for disobedience. The
writ does not reach the office. It cannot be directed to it.
It is, therefore, in substance a personal action, and it rests
upon the averred and assumed fact that the defendant has
neglected or refused to perform a personal duty, to the performance of which by him the relator has a clear right.
Hence it is an imperative rule that previous to making application for a writ to command the performance of any particular act, an express and distinct demand or request to
perform it must have been made by the relator orp)rosecutor
upon the defendant, and it must appear that he refused to
comply with such demand, either in direct terms or by conduct from which a refusal can be conclusively iferred.*
Thus it is the personal default of the defendant that warrants impetration of the.writ, and if a peremptory mandamus
be awarded, the costs must fall upon the defendant.
- It necessarily follows from this, that on the death or retirement from office of the original defendant, the writ must
abate in the absence of any statutory provision to the con* Tapping on Mandamus, 283.

-UNITED STATES V, BOUTWELM

S
t
[Slip.
ot.

Opinion of the court.

trary. When the personal duty exists only so long as the
office is held, the court cannot compel the defendant to perform it after his power to perform has ceased. And if a
successor in office may be substituted, he may be mulcted
in costs for the fault of his predecessor, without any delinquency of his own. Besides, were a demand made upon
him, he might discharge the duty and render the interposition of the court unnecessary. At all events, he is not in
privity with his predecessor, much less is he his predecessor's
personal representative. -As might be expected, therefore,
we find no case in which such a substitution as is asked for
now has ever been allowed in the absence of some statute
authorizing it. .Onthe contrary, after the statute of 9th
Anne, chapter 20, see. 1, it was the acknowledged doctrine
in England, that the rules and practice as to-abatement by
death, resignation, or removal from office, were the same in
cases of mandamus as in personal actions. By that statute,
it was enacted that the prosecutor or relator may plead to
or traverse all or any of the material facts averred in the
return, the defendant having liberty to reply, take issue, or
demur, and it was directed that such further proceedings
might be had as might have been had if the prosecutor had
brought his action on the case for a false return. Thus
mandamus became in effbct a personal action against the
defendant.* This statute was in force in Maryland when
the District of Oolumbia was a part of that State, and hence
it is in force in the District now. Therefore, whatever may
be the rule elsewhere, here a writ of mandamus mnst abate
whenever the performance by the defendant of the personal
duty it seeks to enforce has become impossible.
The law was changed to some extent in England, by the
later act of Parliament of 1 William IV, chapter 21, sec. 5,
by which it Was enacted that in case the return to any writ
(of mandamus) within the purview of the act should, in pursuance of an allowance made by it, be expressed to be made
on behalf of any other person than the defendant, the further
proceedings on such writ should not abate or be disconSee Chitty's General Practice, 3d ed., 1406-1409.

Oct. 1873.]

UNITED

STATES V. ]3oUTWELL.

Opinion of the court.

tinued by death, resignation, or removal from office of the
person who made such return, but the same might be continued and carried on in the name of such person, and if a
peremptory writ should be awarded, it might be directed to
any successor of such person in office or right. No similar
statute exists with us, and its enactment in England was a
recognition of the rule that the death, resignation, or removal from office of the defendant, worked an abatement
of the action. It required a statute to change the rule, and
to avoid injustice, the costs of the writ, when issued and
obeyed, were committed to the discretion of the court.
And, even if the retirement of the defendant from office
and his consequent inability to perform the act demanded
to be done does not abate the writ, or necessitate its discontinuance, there is still an insuperable difficulty in the way
of our directing the substitution asked for. We can exercise only appellate power. We have no original jurisdiction
in the case.* But any summons issued, or rule upon Mr.
Richardson requiring him to become a party to the suit,
would be the exercise of original jurisdiction over both a
new party and a new cause, for the duty which he would
be required to perform would be his own, not that of his
MOTION DENIED.
predecessor.

NOTE.

The preceding case, in its principal form, being subsequently
reached in the regular call of the docket, the court decided that
the suit having abated must be dismissed; 1r. Justice CLIFFORD,
who announced this judgment, referring to the opinion just
above given, as showing the abatement of the suit by the resignation of Mr. Bo'utwell and by the appointment of his successor,

and referring to that opinion and to the case of The Secretary v.
McGarrahan,tas all that was necessary to support the conclusion to which the court had come in thus finally disposing of
the case.
* Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137; Kendall v. United States, 12

Peters, 526.
j- 9 Wallace, 313.
VOL. XViI.

89

