ELDRED v.

Oct. 1873.]

.BANK.

Syllabus.

purchase'of the. goods, were competent evidence. For example, the statement of Fuller when commending Hayes to
the vendors of the goods, that he was worth forty or fifty
thousand dollars, if shown to be untrue, was very material
evidence.
We also think the judge erred in instructing the jury that
it was immeiterial as to the ownership of the goods, how
Hayes acquired his means, or whether his exhibit of his
means was correct or not. Considering the connection between Hayes and Fuller, the fact that Fuller recommended
Hayes as a purchaser of the goods, certified to his responsibility, indorsed his notes for a part of the purchase-money,
and pledged his wife's securities as collaberal to a portion
thereof, an inquiry into Hayes's means at the time of the
purchase, and the correctness of his exhibit, was competent
and proper. The opposite idea proceeded from the view of
the case before noticed, to wit, that the only legitimate inquiry was, as to the naked property of the goods. Whereas,
the case really turned upon the ancillary question, whether
Hayes and Fuller were engaged in a fraudulent scheme to
procure goods in the name of Hayes, but for the secret
benefit of Fuller.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and a
VENIRE DE NOVO ORDERED.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissented, on the first point, the
exception to the ruling-of the court on the admission of evidence.

ELDRED.

. RANK

). 'Cho court adheres to the doctrine that a judgment on a note or contract
merges the note or contract, and that no other suit can be maintained
on the same instrument.
2: Such a judgment, when binding personally, can be introduced in evidence
and, relied on as a bar to a second suit on.the note.
VOL. XY

.

85

:ELDRED

v.

:BANK.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.
8. When a defendant has filed a .,a to the merits, and afterwards, by leave
of the court, withdraws hi, 15lea, that does not withdraw his appearance,
and he is still in eourl so as to be bound personally by a judgment rendered against him in the action.
4. Special circumstances of an alleged misleading of the court and opposite
counsel by a stsftement of counsel, considered as a reason for refusing to
reverse a judgment manifestly, errQneous, and found to be insufficient.
5. But though the judgment is reversed and there does not appear to have
'been any intent to deceive, the plaintiff in error, under the circumstances, recovers no costs in this court.

ERROR to fhe Circuit Court for the Eastern District of

Wisconsin; the case being thus:
A statute of Michigan known as the Joint Debtor Act*
thus enacts:
"1. In actions against two or more persons, jointly indebted
upon any joint obligation, contract, or liability, if, the process
issued against all of the defendants shall have been duly served
upon either of them, the defendant so served shall answer to the
plaintiff; and in such case the judgment, if rendered in favor of
the plaintiff, shall be against all the defendants, in the same
manner as if all had been served with process.
"2. Such judgment shall be conclusive evidence of the liability of the defendant who was served with process in the suit,
or who appeared therein; 'but against every other defendant it
-shall be evidence only of the extent of the plaintiff's demand,
;after the liability of such"defendant shall have been established
:by other evidence."'
This statute being in force, the Michigan Insarance Bank,
-on the 14th of August, 1861, sued Anson Eldred, Elisha El,dred, and Uri Balcom, trading as Eldreds & Balcom, in the
-court of Wayne:County, Michigan, as indorsers on a'promis,sory. note for $4000. On the same day a writ of attachment
,was issued, and the sheriff returned to it that he had attached
-certain property, but that he was unable to find any of the
,defendants in his bailiwick. Publication-notice under the
laws of Michigan was given, and thereupon the defendants'
:appearances were entered in the Common Rule Book by the
mattorney of the plainitiff, usiider the practice of Michigan, and
-*Compiled Laws of Michigan of 1657. voL 4,chap. .18,.page 1219.

Oct. 1873.]

:ELDRED

v. :BANKI.

Statement of the case.

a declaration, to which a copy of the note sued on was annexed, filed December the 16th, 1861. The defendant, Anson Eldred, filed a plea of non-assumpsit, with notice of setoff December 27th, 1861, and demanded a trial.
On the 22d of April, 1862, as the record of the case stated,
the cause came on to be heard, and the plea of the defendants theretofore pleaded by them was withdrawn, and the
default of Elisha Eldred and Uri Balcom entered, and on
the 10th day of'May the said default was made absolute.
On the 13th of May, the record continues:
"The plea of the defendant, Anson Eldred, heretofore pleaded
by him, having been withdrawn, and the default of the defendants, Elisha Eldred and Uri Balcom, having been duly entered,
and the same having become absolute, and the damages of the
said plaintiff, on occasion of the premises, having been duly
assessed at the sum of $4211 over and above their costs and
charges by them about their suit in this behalf expended;
therefore, it is considered that said plaintiffs do recover against
said defendants their damages aforesaid, together with their
costs aforesaid to be taxed, and that said plaintiff have execution therefor."
In this state of things the bank brought this, the present
suit, in the court below, on the sane note against the same
Anson Eldred, Elisha Eldred, and Uri Balcom. The declaration contained a special count on the note against the Eldreds and Balcom, as indorsers, and the commor counts with
a copy of the note annexed and notice that it would be given
in evidence under them. Anson Eldred, who alone was
served or appeared, pleaded the.general issue; and the case
came on for trial. The plaintiffs having offered the note
sued upon, and proof tending to show presentment of it for
payment, dishonor, and notice to the indorsers, and having
rested their case, the defendant,-who had given some proof
tending to show a fraudulent alteration in the note, then
offered in evidence the record of the above-mentioned suit
on the same note in. the Wayne County Court:
1st. As corroborative proof that the note was fraudulently
made.

648

ELDRED V. BANK.

[Sup, Ct.

Argument for the plaintiffin error.

2d. As being a bar to recovery on this note in suit.
The plaintiffs' counsel objected to the records being received.
The bill of exceptions proceeded:
"The defendant's counsel, in ansWer to a question from either
the court or counsel, admitted that the said suit was an attach-

ment suit, and that there was no persotatlservice of yrocess on the
defendant."
The court after this overruled the plaintiff's objection
and admitted the record in evidence. And, in charging the
jury, refused to charge them-as the defendant asked that
they should be charged-that the judgment 'vas a bar to the
action on the note now sued on. ,
Jfudgment having gope accordingly for the bank, Anson
Eldred brought the case here on error; the error assigned
being the refusal of the court to instruct the jury that the
judgment was a bar.In the case of Mason v. Eldred,* this court announced its
adherence to the general doctrinethat when a judgment was
recovered on a promissory note in a court of competent jurisdiction the original cause of action was merged in the judgment, and such a judgment was, a bar to any future action
on the note; but said'that, bythe statute law of Michigan
this effect was not given to the judgment as to parties to the
note who were not served in the first suit nor had personally
appeared.
In the case now before the court the question was whether,
by the record of the suit in the Wayne County Court, Anson
Eldred was before that court, in Michigan, when the judgment was rendered. against all the defendants, so as to bind
him personally as if he had been served with notice.
Mr.. J.. P. C. Cottrill (a brief of Jfr. . W. Cary beingfiled),
for the plaintiff in error :
1. The appearance of Anson Eldred in the suit in the
* 6 Wallace, 281.

Oct. 1873.]

"ELDRED V/. :BANK.

Argument for the defendant in error.

*Wayne County Court, and his pleading to the merits, was
equivalent to personal service of process, and gave to the
Michigan court full jurisdiction of his person (which ivas all
that was necessary to be acquired in order to render a valid
judgment), as also of his cause. His subsequent withdrawal
of his plea could not divest the court of the full jurisdiction
that it had previously acquired.*
2. The judgment afterwards obtained was admissible in
evidence under the plea of the general issue, and wasta bar
to this, it being another suit on the same note there sued
and recovered upon.t
Mr. A. Finch, contra:
1. The only appearance entered by the defendant, in the
Wayne County suit, was by the filing of a plea. The court,
upon motion of the defendant's attorneys, permits the plea to
be witlidrawn. Is not that the same, in legal effect, as if
the order had been that the defendant have leave to withdraw his appearaiice? There is no doubt that a court in
which an action is pending has the right to permit a party
to withdraw his appearance, and if the withdrawal is allowed,
the order must be held conclusive until vacated or set aside
by a proper proceeding. It cannot be reviewed in another
and different action, in another court.
In Forbes v. Eyde,J it appeared that an answer was inadvertently filed for all the defendants in the'suit. The attorneys upon discovering the mistake made application to the
court to withdraw the answer and file another, limiting their
appearance to the defendants whom they represented and
for whom they intended to answer. The motion was granted.
In another action the record was offered in evidence. It was
Pollard & Pickett v. Dwight, 4 Cranch, 421 ; Farrar& Brown v. United
States, 3 Peters, 459; Toland v. Sprague, 12 Id. 331; Shields v. Thomas, 18
Howard, 253; Jones v. Andrews, 10 Wallace, 327.
t Mason v. Eldred, 6 Wallace, 231.
1 31 California, 346; and see Dubois v. Glaub, 52 Pennsylvania State,
242; Lodge v. The State Bank, 6 Blackford, 558; Michew v. McCoy, 3
Watts & Sergeant, 502.

.ELDRED V. BANK.

[Sup. Ct."

Argument for the defendant in error.

objected to on the ground that it appeared the court had
never acquired jurisdiction of the person. The objection
was overruled, and the record was admitted in-evidence in
the lower court. On error, it was held improperly admitted. The opinion says, as to the effect of the withdrawal of the
answer:

"Upon the discovery of the mistake, upon application, and a
proper showing promptly made to' the court, and by order of
the court, the mistake was corrected and the answer, and consequently the appearanceinvolved in the filing, were withdrawn. After
the correction of this mistake, the record, in legal contemplation,
stood as though it had never occurred, and there can be no reasonable
ground for holding that the. court, after the answer was tius withdrawn, had jurisdiction, in consequence. of the inadvertence. The
plaintiff was in no way injured. The way was open to him to.
proceed in the proper mode, as he had before commenced to do,
to obtain jurisdiction, and he did proceed, in all respects, as
though no answer had been filed."
2. The statement of the counsel of the defendant at the
time when he offered the copy of the. record in evidenceand when the court made an inquiry of him whose obvious
and sole purpose was to obtain a true and full kilowledge of
the nature of the record thus offired by him-that it was
"a suit commenced by an attachment, and that there was no personal service of process," was a; representation of such a characte'r, and fuade under such circumstances, that to allow the
defendant now to allege that the said record shows an appearance duly entered in the suit by the defendant, would
be to impute a fraud by the learned counsel of the defendant apen the court below. It would be, in effect, permit-ting the defendant to allege, as a ground of reversal, a fact
which- he must have known was in the record when he
offered it, and which fact he must have intentionally suppressed.
The defendant ought not to complain if the presiding judge
assumed the record to be what-his counsel represented it to
be. His statement, indeed, could have left no other impression'upon the judge than that it was a record affecting only

Oct. 17.

ELDRtED V. BANK.
Opinion of the court.

the property attached, and not creating any personal liability
on Anson Eldred or in any way binding on him. It is certain that the presiding judge, and the counsel for the plaintiff, were led by the statement of the counsel to believe that
this was the facf. Now, the rule of law is well settled that
solemn admissions made by counsel in the progress of a
trial conclude the party making them.*
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
It is argued by the counsel of tue defendant in error that
the withdrawal of the plea of Anson Eldred left the case as
to him as though he had never filed the plea, and that never
having been served with process he was not liable to the
personal judgment of the court.
We do not agree to this proposition. The filing of the
-plea was both an appearance and a defence. The case stood
for the time between one term and another with an appearance and a plea. The withdrawal of the plea could not have
the effect of withdrawing the appearance of the defendant,
and requiring the plaintiff to take steps to bring that defendant again within the jurisdiction of the court. Having
withdrawn that plea he was in condition to demur, to move
to dismiss the suit if any reason for that could be found, or'
to file a new and different plea if he chose, either with the
other defendauts joiutly, or for himself. He was not, by the
withdrawal of the plea, out of court. Such a doctrine would
be very mischievous in cases where, as it is very often, the
first and only evidence of the appearance of a party is the
filing of his plea, answer, or demurrer. The case might rest
on this for a long period before it was ready for trial, when,
if the party could obtain leave of the court to withdraw his
plea (a leave generally granted without objection), he could
thereby withdraw his appearance, the plaintiff is left to begin
de novo.
Vandervoort v. Smith, 2 Caines, 164;, Hoyt v. Gelston, 13 Johnson, 141;
Fernald v. Ladd, 4 New Hampshire, 370; Morrish v. Murray, 13 Mees~a
& Welsby, 52; Shutte v. Thompson, 15 Wallace, 151.

ELDRED V. BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

We are of opinion that the record of the suit in Michigan
shows a valid personal judgment against Anson Eldred, and
that that judgment was a bar to recovery in the present
suit.
But it is further urged that the present judgment should
not be reversed because the court was prevented from giving
the instructions asked by defendant's counsel by being misled by that counsel as to the character of the judgment.
The bill of exceptions, immediately after what is said about
the purposes for which the transcript of the judgment was
offered, proceeds as follows: "The defendant's counsel, in
answer to'a question from either the court or counsel, admitted that said suit was an attachment suit, and that there
was no personal service of process-on defendant."
It is argued that this was equivalent to a declaration that
it was rendered without notice or personal appearance. This
impression may have been produced on the opposite counsel
and the court may have shared in it. But it is very clear
that it was not so equivalent, and that what he said was perfectly consistent with what is now found to be in that transcript, namely, the appearance of defendant and a valid personal judgment against him. MWny attachment suits are
accompanied by the appearance of defendant in the progress
of the suit, though not served with process or notice.
Besides, the counsel for defendant had stated that he
offered it as a bar, and both counsel and court had their
attention turned to the fact that it could be no bar without
service or appearance; -and after all this was over and the
record admitted he asked the court for the instruction which
wasrefused and which could only be founded on the idea
that it was valid as a personal judgment. 'The record was
open to inspection of counsel opposed, and it would be a
very dangerous practice to hold, under these circumstances,
that counsel had intentionally misled his opponent and the
court in this matter.
There seems to be an entire absence of motive to deceive
the court or counsel. What was said was at the time the

Oct. 1873.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. FORT.

Syllabus.

record was offered in evidence as a bar. To show that it
was a valid personal judgment was to secure its admission, while to show it was not was to render its admission
doubtful.
So, in regard to the instruction, there could be no object
in misleading the court other than to have a judgm'ent rendered against his client that he might have the satisfaction
of reversinig it, a motive hardly to be imputed to counsel in
this court. It seems much more reasonable to infer that
counsel doubted whether the withdrawal of the plea did not
withdraw the appearance of defendint, and, therefore, did
not say anything on that point.
We do not think that under these circumstances we can
permit a judgment to stand, manifestly drroneous, where
there is a complete bar found to it in the record, when the
effect would be to close to defendant entirely this defence,
while to reverse it would only leave the other party 'vhere he
would be had nothing been said.
He has not been injured by the statement of the opposing
counsel. Shall he profit by it to the extent of having an
erroneous judgment confirmed?
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

but without costs to either party in

this court, and a new trial granted in the Circuit Court.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. FORT.
F., a boy of tender years, had been engaged, by a company owning it, in i
machine shop, as a workman or helper under the superintendence of C.,

and required to obey his orders. After being employed for a few months
chiefly in receiving and putting away mouldings as they came from a
moulding-machine, the boy, by the order of C., a-cended a ladder to a
great height from the floor, among rapidly revolving and dangerous
,machinery, for the purpose of adjusting a belt by which a portion of the
machinery was moved, and while engaged in the endeavor to execute
the order had his arm torn from his body. The jury, by a special ver-

