OLCOTT

v. BYNUM.

[Sup. ct.

Syllabus.

was made, except that it must have been after the 19th of
May, 1826, the date of the letter referred to in the memorandum itself, which was eight years after the date of the
patent; nor is it known who made it, nor on what evidence
itwas made. Such a memorandum, being no part of the
record itself, cannot be received to contradict the record,
It would be a very dangerous precedent to allow it to have
that effect. It is not the record of any act of the department, nor of any document entitled to registry in its archives.
It is nothing but a memorandum of a third person, and hearsay evidence at best.
As to the recital of the statute, whilst the recitals of public
acts are regarded as evidence of the facts recited, it is otherwise, as we have seen, in reference to private acts. They
are not evidence except against the parties who procure
them.* The statute in question is a mere private act, and
cannot be rceived as evidence, except as against the person
who procured it, who was not Egerton, but his remote assignee under the Hart deed. It can only be used. as evidence against the person on whom it acts as an estoppel.
We conclude, therefore, that the charge of the court below was erroneous, and that the judgment must be REVERSED,
with directions to award a
VENIRE DE NOVO.

OLCOTT V.

BYNUM

ET AL.

Under the statutes of North Oarolina regulating the conveyance of real
estate in that State, no copy of a registefdd copy of 6, deed can be read
in evidence in place of the original, even if it be proved that the original is lost.
A resulting trust of land does not arise in favor of one of two joint purchasers, unless his part is some-definite portion of the whole, and what
money he pays is paid for some alicuot part of the property, qsa fourth,
third, or a moiety. Nor can it arise in any case for more-than the
* 2 Phillipson Evidenrm, 106; 6th Ani. ed.

Dec. 1872.]

OLCOTT

v.

]BYNUM.

Statement of the case.
money actually paid. Thus, if B. buy land worth $25,000, and with
A.'s'money pay $5000 and give his own bond and mortgage for the balance, no trust results for more than the $5000 at best.
A resulting trust cannot be created by advances or funds furnished after
the time when the purchase is made.
-There not being in North Carolina iny statutory provision relating to
express trusts, ,"manifested and proved," similar to the provision in the
seventh section of the Statute of Frauds, such trusts in that State stand
as at common law.
A deed of trust with power of sale (a deed, therefore, in the nature of a
mortgage), provided that money should be paid in three equal instalments,
and that in default of payment of any one "that may grow due thereon,"
all the mortgaged premises might be sold and~a deed of the premises
made to the purchaser, and that it should be lawful for the trustee "1out
of the money arising from such sale to retain the principal and interest
which shall then be due" ... rendering tfie overplus to the mortgagor.
Beld (the property being incapable of advantageous sale in rarts),that
when one instalment fell due, the trustee had a right to sell, and though
there was a surplus above what was necessary to pay the instalmentdue,
yet that the trustee might reserve the whole and apply it to the residue
of the mortgage debt.
A sale of a large and valuable property under a deed of trust in the nature
of a mortgage, held under the proofs to have been properly made in a
body, and for cash alone, and on the premises themselves, though they
were in a remote part of Virginia.
EouoR to the Circuit Court for the District of North Carolina; the case being thus:
In the year 1854, the High Shoals Manufacturing Company
owning 14,873 acres of land in the counties of Lincoln, Gaston, and Cleveland, in North Carolina, having upon it two
water-powers, abounding in iron ore and other minerals,
and having erected thereon two iron-works, forges, furnaces,
machinery, and other fixtures for the manufacture of iron,
sold the same, in a body, to one Groot, who paid $7.5,000
therefor; $25,000 in cash and a morfgage of $50,000 to two
persons, Bynum and Grier, trustees for the High Shoals Company. This mortgage not being paid, Bynum and Grier, on
the 1st of January, 1859, foreclosed it by a public sale of the
property in a body; one Hovey presenting himself as the purchaser. As a matter of fact, however, Iovey was only "a
man of straw," the real purchasers being one Olcott and a
certain Stephenson. There had been an agreement previous

[Sup. Ot.

OLOTT v. BYNUM.

46

Statement of the case.

to this sale that the purchase-money (which proved to be
$48,500) should be paid:
โข......
$8,600
40,000

Money down.
Balance, mortgage,

$48,500

And it was so paid.
The money down was paid by Olcott and Stephenson, and
thus made up cash, ..
Certain dividends due Stephenson (equivalent to cash) assigned,

$6,800
1,700
$8,500

A deed was accordingly made to Hovey January '1st, 1859,
and on the same day Hovey gave a deed of trust-with power
of sale, or deed in the nature of a mortgige, for the balance,
which was to be paid:
1860, January 1, ...
1860, July 1,...
1861, January 1, .

.1q,333

$13,333 33
13,333 33
34

All with interest from January 1st, 1859.
The deed of trust which was accompanied by a penal bond,
provided,
"That if default shall be made in the payment of the said
sum of money, or the interest that may grow due thereon, or
of any part thereof, that then, and upon failure of the grantor
to pay the first or any subsequent instalment, as hereinbefore
specified, it shall be lawful for the trustee to enter upon all and
singular the premises hereby granted, and to sell and dispose of
the same, and all benefit and equity of redemption, &c., and to
make and deliver to the purchaser or purchasers thereof a good
and -sufficient deed for the same, in fee simple, and out of the
money arising from such sale to retain the principal and interest
which shall then be due on the said bond or obligation, together
with the costs and charges of advertising and sale of the same
premises, rendering the overplus of the purchase-money, if any
there shall be, unto the said Hovey, &c.; which sale so to'be
made shiall forever be a perpetual bar, both in law and equity,
against the said Hovey, his heirs and assigns, and all other per.ons claiming the premises, or any part thereof, by, from, or
und'4r him, them, or either of them."

'Dec. 1872.]

OLCOTT v. BYNum.

47

Statement of the case.

A few days after the conclusion of these arrangements,
that is to say on the 8th of January, 1859, Hovey, as he testified in a deposition found in the record, and as Olcott himself also testified, conveyed the premises to Olcott and Stephenson, by deed' in due form. But i;o such deed was now
to be found nor any registry of it. It was proved to have
been lost, and a certified copy from the proper office was
produced of a copy which had been registered there.
On the 18th of December, 1867, Stephenson released all
his interest to Olcott, by deed in due form, of whose existence there was no question. Default in the first payment
securqd by the mortgage being made, the mortgagees, on the
81st of January, advertised the property for sale on the 8th
day of March, 1860. *Upon hearing of the advertisement
of sale, Stephenson and Olcott wrote to Bynum, the acting
trustee, as follows:
" NEw YouRE, February 25th, 1860.

"DEAR Sin: You will recollect that when the High Shoal
property, hanged hands in January, 1859, we stated to you that
our aim. would be to pay off the entire amount of the mortgage
before the expiration of the year. To bring about a result so
desirable to all parties interested, we have taken the position
with our friends, in organizing a new.company, that a less sum
than thie whole amount required to satisfy the mortgage would
not answer our purpose. This, we have felt assured, was the
true policy for us to pursue, and the only ground we could take
and do justice to them, and realizb what we had encouraged you
to expect. We are now, we think, on the eve of accomplishing
our aim, having already a large part of the reiluired sum offered
to us, but as we may not 'be prepared with the whole amount
on the day fixed by you in the advertisement, we beg to ask the
postponement of the day of the sale for a short time under the
conviction that we shall be able to meet your wishes and our
own at a very early day, and much in advance of the average
time named in the mortgage. We should like to have the time
of payment put off to the 1st Mfay, but if that is longer than
you think ought to be granted, we must be satisfied with a
shorter date.
"Although, by the strict letter of the contract, you have the

48

OLCOIT v. ByNum.

[Sup.

at.

Statement of the case.

right to require us to fulfil its conditions punctually, yet, in
view of the large amount already paid to the stockholders of
the company which you represent, and the still larger sum expended upon the property, we hope it will not be deemed necessary to compel us to sacrifice these large disbursements at a
time when the delay of a few weeks will enable us to protect
them, and cannot jeopard or in any way prejudice the rights of
those you represent.
"Recollecting and appreciating the good feeling evinced towards us by the stockholders of -the old compony during-onr
long struggle with outside claimants, we dare venture to hope
f(r the continuance of their indulgence for the brief period
asked for to enable us to bring this our determined effort to
cancel the entire debt to a successful issue.
"Believing that your good wishes are with us, and that you
will, as far as you can consistently with your obligations to
others, grant our request,
"We are,'very respectfully, ,3ours, &e.,
BE. S. STEPHENSON,

IT. OLCOTT.
"To W. P. BYNum, ESQ., &C."
The sale was accordingly postppned;- and'on the 19th of
March, 1860, the property was again advertised as about
to be publicly sold "at the High -Shoals, Gaston Oouut"
N. C.," on the 28th of April,; it being announced that " the
sate will be positive and for cash."
This, and the further history of the matter, was thus.given
in the testimony of Bynnm himself:
"I postponed the sale to the 28th of A-pril, in compliance with
the request of Messrs. Stephenson and T Olcott, having business
elsewhere on the 1st May. Mr. Olcott was infbrmed of this
postponement. both by letter from myself and from Thomas
Darling, the agent 'upon the premises, and I was informed by the
said agent that the arrangement was satisfactory to all the paties. On the 28th April, the prpperty was duly exposed to public
sale by me and Grier, as mortgagees, when and where (on the
premises at the High Shoals), William Sloan, as the agent-of the
-figh Shoals Manutaetui'ing Company, beichg the creditors, became the highest bidder and purchaser, at the sum of .$43,200
the estimated debt and interesL due on the mortgage. I am not

Dec. 1872.]

OLCOTT v. BYNUM.

Statement of the case.

aware that there was any opposition bid, or that he made more
than one bid. At the time of the sale, the creditor company
were anxious to realize that debt without purchasing in the
property. I and others accordingly made every reasonable
effort, both before and at the sale, to induce the mortgagees to
pay, or third parties to buy the property; and in fact, I did induce several capitalists from Charlotte to attend the sale, with"
the view of buying. But on surveying the property, they concluded to run the same to $35,000 and no more. At the time of
sale, and during the entire bidding,.Joth Hovey, the mortgagor,
and Darling, the agent of the New York company, were personally present and assenting thereto, well knowing that Sloan
was bidding in behalf of the creditors, the old High Shoals
Company. I expressly deny that Sloan was the agent of the
mortgagees, or employed by them to bid off the property, but
know that he was directed by the High Shoals Company to bid
fbr them to the amount of their debt, and no more. I was, before said sale, informed, both by Hovey and Darling, that the
purchasers had failed, and wbre unable to meet the payments,
and they acknowledged the necessity of the sale and acquiesced
in it, as representing the New York company. After ,",- alc,
the same day, or shortly thereafter, the penal bond of flovey
for 980,000 was credited with amount of said bid by Sloan, and
the bond itself was cancelled in satisfaction of said debt.
"Mr. Olcott came to North Carolina and visited this property
in the year 1860, and after said.sale, and in repeated conversations with me,and with a full knowledge of said sale and all
the circumstances connected with it, acknowledged the validity
of the sale and the full and complete title of the purchasers at
it. In the summer of 1860, he, on two occasions, visited me
with the view of procuring a lease on a portion of said property,
for gold-mining purposes, and the farther view of pur chasing
the entire property, if his mining project proved successful. In
fact he did procure from me a mining lease (to himself and one
Muir), on a part of the property, which was in writing, and for
the period of six months from that time, subject to be revoked
at any time on the sale of the property. And I am informed
that he did make explorations, &c., but finally abandoned his
lease and left the State in April, 1861, or thereabouts. In Iarch,
1862, by the direction of the High Shoals Manufacturing Company, I contracted to sell the property to R. R. & J. L. Bridgers,
4
VOL. XVIL.

OLCOTT v. BYNUm.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

for the sum of $65,000; $30,000 of said sum was to be paid in
North Carolina bank bills, and the said sum was accordingly
paid in miscellaneous bills of the various banks of the State, then
considerably depreciated. The balance, being $35,000, was to
be paid in specie or equivalent, in three and four years, with
interest. The interest for two years has been paid on said debt
and the balance is still due and unpaid. When the Messrs.
Bridgers- bought in March, 1862, they immediately took possession, and worked the property until their sale to Admiral Wilkes,
in 1865, when the said Wilkes entered into possession, and has
ever since occupied and worked the same."
After the sale of April 28th, 1860, no deed was ever executed by-Bynum and Grier to Sloan until June 12th, 1860.
In tli state of things Olcott, on the 22d of Apri,.1868,
filed a bill in the court below, against Bynum and Grier
(the trustees), Sloan, Bridgers, and Wilkes, setting outThe purchase by Hovey for him, Olcott, and the Stephen-.
son already mentioned; an' express trust:
That the sale was not an execution of the powers of' the
mortgage deed, but an attempt irregularly to foreclose the
mortgage by a mere agreement between Bynum an'd Grier,
and Sloan, without any i*egard to the interest of the plaintiff
and Stephenson, "and was void against them:
That the exposure to sale of said property in solido, at
public auction, for cash, on the premises, in a remote and unfrequented neighborhood, when there was due not more than
$14,500 of the mortgage debt, was highly injurious to the
mortgagors, and gave an assurance to the mortgagees of a
foreclosure at an amount not greater than their debt:
That the property was easily susceptible of division, and
that a fraction thereof would have brought the amount due
at the time of sale, such amount being within the compass
of the means of bidders; that the property was situated far
in the interior of the country, where capital did not abound,
where there wire divers iron manufactories on a small scale,
embracing investments of from $2000 to $10,000, but that
'there, w'as no ground for expecting apurchaser of the whole
property at a cash sale, uuless it were the mortgagees or

Dec. 1872.]

OLCOTT v. ]BYNUM.
Statement of the case.

their.trustees, and that the result was a sacrifice of the property at such price as they chose to bid; -that but a single bid
was made, and that by the defendant, Sloan; that upon this
the property was knocked down; but no money was paid
and no deed executed; and soon thereafter the said trustees,
the vendors, took possession in their character as such:
That the effect of this course of proceeding, unless relieved
against by this court, would be to deprive the plaintiff of a
property which had already been sold for $75,000, and was
then worth more than that sum, to satisfy a balance of
$40,000, of which only one-third was then due:
That on account of the threatening aspect of affairs in the
Southern country, resulting in war, neither the plaintiff nor
Stephenson visited North Carolina again until since the close
of the war, after the announcement by the Chief Justice of
this court that the Federal courts were again in the exercise of their full jurisdiction in that State:
That the purchasers, Messrs. Bridgers, in the first instance,
and Charles Wilkes in the second, had notice of the equities
of the plaintiff in the premises.
Answers having been pat in, testimony was taken.
Bynum testified that he had an interest as a stockholder in
the old High Shoals Company of $1200; *that the property
in question was the most valuable property in that vicinity;
"that in the section of country where this property is situated he had never known property of the value of $40,000
or upwards set up at auction sale, in the lump for cash, but
this."
Sloan testified "that the question whether the property
could best be sold in separate parcels, with advantage to any
of the parties concerned, was fully discussed by the stockholders of the original company:before the sale, and it was
deemed by them totally impracticable, as they could not, by
such a course, obtain money eubugh to pay off the debt."
He added, "If the sale had been on credit it might have been
more Advantageous to have offered the property in parcels;
but that selling for cash, it was better to sell in bulk." He
testified further that he was bidding only for the High Shoals

[Sup. Ct.

OLCOTT v. BYNUM.
Statement of the case.

Company, not for Bynum and Grier; and that after the sale
of the 28th of April, 1860, Olcott proposed to him to join ina new purchase of the property.
White, who had been acquainted with the property for
thirty years, testified that in his opinion "the property could
not be divided without destroying its value as an iron property."
It was fiurther testified, by Bynum, that during the six
years in which the pioperty was held by Groot, and by 01cott and Stephenson, several thousand dollars' worth of timber was destroyed, and several thousand dollars' worth of
ore was dug,-and that the mills, machinery, dwellings, buildings, and fences were -suffered to go to decay, to the great
loss of the property. "That before the sale to Groot the company was leasing the property for $5000 per annum; but
when they took possession again, under the sale of the 28th
of April, 1860, the property was so injured and out of repair
that he was unable to lease, the, manufacturing and valuable
part of the, same, and was able to rent only the tillable lands
for a very small sum, to wit, about $500.
Witnesses of the other side, however,,testified that much
money.had been laid out by .ovey and Stephenson on the
property.,
The court below dismissed the bill, holding that under
the statutes of North Carolina,, the copy of the copy of the
unregistered deed from Hovey to Olcott and Stephepson,
wqs not evidence, and therefore that Olcott had failed to
show any connection with the property in question.
It may be well here to state that a statute of North Carolina*' enacts that-'E No conveyance for land shall be good and available in law,
unless the same shall be proved and registered in the county
where the lands lie."
And that an act of 1846t allows to be read in evidence
"the registry -or duly certified -copy of the record of any
deed" duly' register'ed.
*' Revised'Code, ehapter 87,

1.

tj lb.

16.

Dec. 1872.]

OLCOTT V. BYNUM.
Argument against the sale.

And finally, that the seventh section of the Statute of
Frauds is not in force in the State named. The section
thus enacts:
"All declarations or creations of trusts or confidences of any
lands, tenements or hereditaments, shall be manifested and
proved by some writing signed by the party who is by law
enabled to declare such trust ...or else they shall be utterly
void and of none effect."
Mr.W. A. Graham,for the appellant:
I. As to the lost deed from Hffovey. The question here is, "Is
a party to lose an estate granted by means of the loss of the
deed before registration ?" By the statute of North Carolina,* conveyances of lease are required to be "acknowledged by the grantor or proved on oath by one or more
witnesses" and registered. In a case like the present, where
there can be no literal compliance, on account of the loss of
the original deed, which was a part of the primary evidence,
we must resort to secondary evidence according to the rules
of the common law. This can be done in a court of probate,
in proceedings ex parte, as well as in courts of contestation.
Here a copy is alleged to have been preserved, and copies
are set out in the record.
The law of evidence requires in the circumstances of this
case-ist, that the loss of the original shall be proved by
the evidence of the plaintiff, the bargainer, in whose custody
it was last seen; 2d, that the alleged copy is a true copy,
and that the original was executed and delivered according
to its import. Upon such proof the deed was properly ordered to be, and was, registered.
But if this deed were rejected there is abundant proof by
parol that Stephenson and Olcott were entitled to the beneficial interest in the property, by their purchase in the name
of Hovey, and their payment of part of and securing of the
balance of the consideration. The well-known doctrine of
equity applies, " that if one purchase an estate for another
* Revised Code, chapter 37.

OLCOTT V. BYNUM.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the sale.

with the money of the latter, a trust results to the latter."
And, as to Stephenson's share, the plaintiff produces the
deed of Stephenson, releasing all his right in the premises
to himself.
. Passing then to the merits. The next question is
the
validity of the alleged sale of the 28th of April, 1860. And
it is to be remarked that Bynum, the trustee, who transacted
the entire business, had an interest adverse to the plaintiff,
being both a stockholder in the High Shoals Company and
president. It is, then, the case of a mortgagee with a power
of sale, and the manner of its execution is liable to th'e
strictest scrutiny. Will it stand any scrutiny? We think
not.
1st. The sale was made for cash in toto. The trustees had
no power to sell for cash in this way at the time when they
did so sell. Only one-third of $40,000, with interest on that
third fiom January 1st, 1859, was then due and demandable.
The plain duty of the trustees was either to wait till the
whole fell due, 1st January, 1861, after which they could
have sold for cash; or, if resolved to sell at once, to have
set up the property for cash as to one-third, credit on another third till the 1st of July, 1860, and on the balance till
1st of January, 1861. The mortgage does not contain the
word "cash;" it was a mere requirement of the trustees,
without authority, which chilled the sale and depressed the
price by thousands of dollars.
If a sale for cash in toto was not wholly ultra vires, the
only footing on which it could be maintained, even upon

the allegations of the defendants, would have been to credit
the one-third of the debt then due upon the mortgage, require Sloan to pay down the residue of $26,666.66, and pass
this over to the complainant. The alleged purchaser had
no right both to the property and the money. A trustee
has no right to receive money before it is due, much less to
raise it by sale. It is further apparent from the continued
action of Bynunn and Grier, as trustees, with no other evidence of title except the deed of January 1st, 1859, that they
were the purchasers at that sale. Had Sloan purchased for

Dec. 1872.]

OLCOTT v. BYNUMj.
Argument against the sale.

the company, he or they should have been invested with title,
and the trustees denuded. This was never attempted to be
done till June 12th, 1868; after the filing of the bill in This
suit. If our assumption of fact here be true, the old doetrine applies, that a trustee cannot purchase from himself.*
2d. But if the company be assumed to have been the'purchaser, the sale was made in such disregard of the interests
of the plaintiff that equity will not permit it to stand. Be:
fore a trustee can assert that he has foreclosed the rights of
the mortgagor by a sale in pais, he should be able to show
that it was such a sale as would have been ordered by a
chancellor if application had been made to a court.
Now, no chancellor would have ordered a sale of this vast
property for cash when only an instalment of $13,000 was
due. Sloan admits that the property would have sold better
on a credit, and in that case might have been enhanced in
price by dividing it into lots.
So a sale of the property in solido in that state of the mortgage debt was a great wrong to the plaintiff. It may well
be questioned whether a sale by a sheriff, under similar circumstances, would not have been void. If the property can
be separated, and exceeds the debt, no more ought to be
sold than will pay the debt. The presumption is, when the
estate is very large and at all capable of division, that a sale
in parcels will be most advantageous.
The opinion of the defendants' witnesses, that a sale in
lots would not have been more advantageous, is entitled to
little weight, when they themselves prove that no single
estate of such magnitude exists, and none equal to it has
ever been exposed at auction sale in that section of country,
and it is obvious that by reducing the parts within the ability
of bidders much more competition might have been expected.
3d. As to the place of sale, any neighboring town would
obviously have been more eligible than this place, a remote
and unfrequented one.
Fox v. Mackreth, Leading Cases in Equity, p. 92, with notes.

OLOOTT

v).

B YNUM.

[sup. t

Recapitulation in the opinion of the facts.

There is nothing in the letter from New York, February
25th, 1860, consenting to a sale for cash in toto, or agreeing
to anything variat from the terms of the mortgage; it asks
only that the trustees will not be too rigorous, and allow
some six or eight weeks longer for an endeavor to raise
money.
Mr. WI. . -Battle, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAINIE delivered the opinion of the court.
The object and prayer of the bill in this case are to redeem certain premises therein described, consisting of upwards of 14,000 acres of land, sold by the defendants Bynum
and Grier to the defendant Sloan, under a mortgage containing a power of sale. The mortgage was executed by
the defendant Hovey, and bears date the 1st day of January,
1859. Bynum and Grier, as trustees for the High Shoals
Manufacturing Company, were the mortgagees. The mortgage recites that Hovey had executed to Bynum and Grier
a penal bond in the sum of $80,000 to secure the payment
of $40,000 in three instalments of $18,833.33 each, the first
payable on the 1st day of January, 1860, the second on.
the 1st of July, 1860, and the third on the 1st of January,
1861, all with interest from the 1st of January, 1859. It
was conditioned that, in defiult of payment of either of the
instalments or the interest thereon, or of any part of either
when due, it should be lawful for the mortgagees to sell at
public auction all the mortgaged premises, and to make and
deliver to the purchaser a deed in fee simple, and out of the
moneys arising from the sale to retain the amount of the
principal and interest which should then be due on the
bond, together with the costs and charges of advertising and
selling, rendering the overplus, if any, to the mortgagor, his
heirs, or assigns; "which sale so to be made," it was provided, "shall forever be a perpetual bar, both in law and
equity, against the mortgagor his heirs and assigns, and all
other persons claiming or to claim the premises, or any part
thereof, by, from, or under him, them, or either of them."

Dec. 1872.]

OLCOTT

v.

BYNqUM.

Opinion of the court.

Default having been made in the payment of the first instalment, due January 1st, 1860, the mortgagees advertised
the premises to be sold on the ensuing 28th of April, and
then sold them fbi the sum of $43,500 to Sloan, to be held
by him in trust for the Hiigh Shoals Manufacturing Company,
the cestui que trust of the mortgagees.
At the time of the sale and conveyance to Hovey a down
payment was made consisting of $6157 in cash, and a receipt
to Bynum by Ebeu S. Stephenson for certain dividends to
which Stephenson was entitled, which, added to the cash,
made an aggregate of $7853.33. The bond and mortgage
were given to secure the residue of the purchase-money.
The bill charges that this payment was made by Olcott and
Stephenson jointly; that lovey was a man of no means,
and that he bought and took the title as the agent of the
complainant and Stephenson, wholly in trust for them, and
that on -the 8th day of January, 1860, eight days after the
title was conveyed to him, he conveyed to them all his interest in the property, and that on the 18th day of December,
1867, Stephenson conveyed all his interest to the complainant. These allegations, so far as they relate to the' agency
of iovey, are clearly proved by the testimony of Hovey Ym self and of the complainant, and there is nothing in the
record which tends in any degree to contradict them. Sufficient evidence was produced in the court below of the execution of the deed from Stephenson to the complainant.
The evidence offered as to the deed from Hovey to the complainant and Stephenson consisted of proof of the-loss of the
original and a certified copy from the proper register's office
in North Carolina of a copy which had been registered there.
It was held by the court below that this evidence was incompetent to establish the existence of the lost deed, and
that the complainant had therefore failed to show any connection with the property in question. Upon the ground of
this objection the bill was dismissed.
I
Whether this ruling was correct is an inquiry which meets
us at the threshold of our examination of the case. It is

OLCOTT v.

ByNUu.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion ofthe court.

one to be determined by the lex loci rei sitar. It is to be considered solely in the light of the statutes and adjudications
of North Carolina. This court must hold and administer
the law upon the subject as if it were sitting as a local court
of that State. In the revised code of 1854 we find the following language. It is a re-enactment of the provision of
the act'of 1715 on the same subject: "No conv.eyance for
land shall be good and available in law unless the same shall
be acknowledged by the grantor, or proved on oath by one
or more witnesses in the manner hereinafter directed, and
registered in thQ county where the land shall be, within two
years after the date of said deed, and all deeds so executed
and registered shall be valid and pass estates .in land without
livery of seizin, attornment, or other ceremony whatever."*
Sections three, four, and five of chapter 37, and section two
of chapter 21, provide for the execution in other States of
deeds for lands in North Carolina and their registration in
the proper county; but we have found no provision authorizing the registration of a copy. In Patton and Erwin's Lessee
v. Beily,t in the Supreme Court of Tennessee, an original
unregistered deed was offered in evidence. It was objected
to upon the ground of the want of registration. The court
said: ".Registration was intended to stand in the place of
livery of seizin. By the common law no estate could pass
without livery of seizin, and the same may be said of its substitute.' Lands as conveyed by this deed, would not pass
the estate at common law, and if it will pass,. it must be by
act of assembly. The act of 1715 requires the deed to be
registered before a legal estate is vested in the grantee. To
create a title under this act of assembly, the party claiming
the benefit of it must have complied with its requisitions.
One of them is that the deed shall be registered. This deed
cannot be read in evidence." The plaintiffs were nonsuited.
Patton and Erwin's Lessee v. Brownt is to the same effect.
Such is the settled law of North Carolina upon the subject.ยง
I lb. 126.
t 1 Cook, 125.
Chapter 37, 1.
R ogan v. Strayhorn, 65 North Carolina, 279; Ivey v. Granberry, 66
Id. 223; Hodges v. Hodges, 2 Devereux & Battle's Equity, 72.

Dec.1872.]

OLCOTT V. BYNUM.
Opinion of the court.

The original deed from Hovey to Olcott and Stephenson
never having been registered, and the registration of the
copy being unauthorized, it follows that the certified copy
of the registered copy was a nullity, and could give no legal
right to the grantees which the Circuit Court could recognize. We hold, therefore, that the ruling upon this subject
was correct. Obviously, a proceeding in equity had specially
for that purpose, and bringing the proper parties before
court, is the appropriate remedy for the complainant to
establish the lost deed and give it efficacy, and in no other
way can this be done.*
It has been insisted, in behalf of the complainant, that,
there was a resulting trust in favor of the complainant and
Stephenson, arising from the circumstances of the transaction at the time of the conveyance to Hovey.
Where the purchase-money is all paid by one, and the
property is conveyed to another, there is a resulting trust in
favor of the party paying, unless there be something which
takes the case out of the operation of the general rule. But
where he furnishes only a part of the amount paid no trust
arises unless his part is some definite portion of the whole,
and is paid for some aliquot part of the property, as a fourth,
a third, or a moiety.t 'There must be no uncertainty as to
the proportion of the property to which the trust extends. "
Here the amount paid was $7853.33, and it was paid without
reference to any specific part of the property. Hence the
principle in question does not apply. But if it did, it could
do so -only to the extent of the actual payment. It could
certainly have no application in respect to the $40,000, for
which Hovey gave his obligation, and for which Olcott and
Stephenson assumed no liability to the grantors of the
estate. Such a trust must arise, if at all, at the time the
purchase is made. The funds must then be advanced and
invested. It cannot be created by after-advances or funds
subsequently furnished. It does not arise upon subsequent
,
* Hodges v. Hodges, supra.
- White v. Carpenter, 2 raige, 241; Sayre v. Townsend, 15 Wendell, 650.
$ Baker v. Vining, 30 Maine, 127.

OLCOrT V. BYNUML

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

payments under a contract by another to purchase.* A
trust to the extent of the payment made, if it existed, would
not support the case made in the bill. The complainant
claims to have owned the entire estate.
But the bill sets out clearly and fully a case of express
t"ust, and if the -seventh section of the Statute of Frauds
applied, the trust would be sufficiently "manifested and
proved" by the deposition of Hovey, to give it effect.t But
there is no such statutory provision in North Carolina, and
the case stands 'in fhis aspect as it would at the common
law, before the enactment of the 29th Car. II, c. &T
This brings us to the examination of the merits of the
case. The objections taken by the complainant to the sale
to Sloan may be thus stated and grouped together:
That the entire property was sold wholly for cash when
only a pal:t of the debt was due; that Bynum and Grier
bought in the property for themselves; that it was a case of
trustees buying for themselves;
And that the sale was made in gross disregard of the interests of tlhe complainant in the following particulars:
Only, enough of the property should.have been sold to
pay the instalment then due;
If the whole were sold it should have been for cash, only
to the extent of the amount due, and with credits maturing
respectively, so as to meet the instalments of the debt, underdue, at their maturity;
The place of sale was improper.
Th6 business was conducted by the defendant Bynum.
He appears well in the record No imputation of bad faith
has been cast upon him, and no ground for any is disclosed.
He conducted himself with integrity and frankness, -Ind mingled kindness with the administration of his trust, as far as
his -duty to his principals would permit. The first instal* Buck v. Swazey & Darling, 35 Maine, 51; Conner v. Lewis, 4 Shepley,
274.

j"Brown on the Statute of Frauds, 94; Tiffany on Trusts and Trustees,
191 ; Pinney v. Fellows, 15 Vermont, 525; Seaman v. Cook, 14 Illinois, 503.
$ Foy v. Foy, 2 Haywood, 131.

Dec. 1872.]

OLeOTT

v.

B YNUM.

Opinion of the court.

mert matured on the 1st of January, 1860.

lie waited

until Yebruary trying to get payment without a sale. Meeting with no success, and seeing no prospect of such a result,
he advertised the property to be sold in March. Olcott and
Stephenson, by their letter of the 5th of February, asked
delay until the 1st of May, hoping to be able in the meantime to raise the funds necessary to discharge the amount
due. Bynum's absence on the 1st of May being necessary,
he gave them until the 28th of April. With this they were
content, and asked no further indulgence. Failing to realize
their expectations, the property was exposed to sale upon
the premises on the appointed day. Bynum procured several capitalists to attend, but none of them would bid more
than $35,000, deeming that to be as much as the property
was worth. A meeting of the stockholders of the High
Shoals Company had been held, and decided not to allow
the property to be sold for less than the amount of the debt
due on the bond of Hovey, and appointed and instructed
Sloan to bid accordingly. He did so bid, and the sale was
made to him, as before stated. A deed was not executed
until the 12th of June, 1868. It was operative by relation
from the time of the sale. But the deed is an immaterial
fact. If the sale were valid, it is conclusive without the
deed. If it were invalid, the deed caunot help it. It
cannot be doubted that Olcott and Stephenson, when their
letter of the 25th of February, 1860, was written, knew the
property was to be sold as they had bought it, en masse, and
maling no objection, they are concluded upon that point.*
The cbmplainant visited N~orth Carolina in the spring of
1861. While there he made no objection to the sale, either
to Sloan or Bynum. On the contrary, in conversation with
both, he expressly acquiesced and admitted its fairness and
validity. He proposed to Sloan to join him in a new purchase
of the property. lie applied to Bynum for license for a
year to himself and Muir, to enable them to search for mines.
Bynum gave him one runuing from April to November, but
* Lamb v. Goodwin, 10 Iredell, 320.

62

OLCOTT v.

BYNUm.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

subject to .be revoked at .any time upon the sale of the premises. It does not appear that the complainant set up any
claim touching the property after the sale, until abou. the
time of the filing o this bill, on the 22d of April, i868.
These are significant and important facts in the case.*
The place of sale, like the time of advertising, is not prescribed in the mortgage. Both are left to the discretion of
the mortgagees. There is no complaint as to the latter.
We are satisfied there was no abuse as to the former. The
testimony leaves.no doubte in our minds that the property
would not have brought more if offered elsewhere. Express
authority is given to sell all the property upon the failure to
pay either of the instalments at maturity. If enouigh of it
to satisfy the amount due could be segregated and sc51d without, injury to the residue, it would have been the dufy of the
mortgagees so to sell. The evidence convinces us that the
sale of a parcel could not have been made without such
injury. It was bought by Groot from the High Shoals Manufacturing Company entire. It was sold entire to Hovey
under the mortgage of Groot. It was so sold toSloau under
the mortgage of Hovey. Subsequently it was so sold to
Bridgers and others, and it was so sold by them to Commodore Wilkes. This shows the views upon the subject of
,those most conversant with the property and most interested
in disposing of it to the best advantage. It has upon it
water-power, timber, ores, mills, and furnaces; each part is
necessary to every other. Dismemberment, instead of increasing, would have lessened the aggregate value. It could
not have been sold in parcels without a sacrifice.
If a mortgage, provide that upon default in the payment
when due of a part of the amount secured the.whole shall
become due and may be collected, such a stipulation is valid
and may be enforced.t
So where a bond contains such a stipulation it may be enforced accordingly in an action at law.j. But the bond in
this case as recited in the mortgage contained no such stipuf Noonan v.Lee, 2 Black, 509.
+ James v. Thomas, 5 Barnowall & Adolphus, 40.
* .Veazie v. Williams, 3 Story, 621.

Dec. 1872.]

OLCOTT V. B YNUM .
Opinion of the court.

lation. On the contrary the mortgage, while it authorized
a sale of the entire property in the event of any default, expressly provided that if there should be a sale, the amount
"then due," with costs and charges, should be retained, and
the overplus, if any, paid over "unto the party ofthe first
part, his heirs, administrators, or assigns." Such a clause
has not the effect to make the entire debt due and collectible
upon the first default.* But the property being incapable
of division without injury, and having all been properly sold
together, yielded a fund sufficient to pay the whole debt, as
well the instalments underdue as the one overdue. Under
these circumstances it was proper at once to pay the former
as well as the latter, stop the interest, and-extinguish the'
entire liability. The lien of the mortgage continued upon
the fund as it subsisted upon the premises before they were
sold.t If a court of chancery had administered the fund it
would have so applied it. Such is the settled rule in equity.$
Here the mortgagees, having applied the fund as a court of
equity would have applied it in conformity to this principle,
theie is no ground for complaint on the part of Olcott.
Where there is a power and discretion, such as existed in
this case, touching the sale, a court of equity will. interpose
only on the ground of bad faith.ยง
The bid of Sloan was a liberal one. The property could,
doubtless, have been bought in for much less. That bid
and the cancellation of the entire debt were in consistency
with the fair dealing which characterized the conduct of the
mortgagees in all their transactions with the other parties.
There is no foundation for the imputation that Bynum and
Grier were themselves the purchasers. They had no authority to give credit for any part of the purchase-money.
It was their duty to sell wholly for cash. They were auHolden v. Gilbert, 7 Paige, 208.
j Astor v. :Miller, 2 Paige, 78; Sweet v. Jacocks, 6 Id. 355.
* Salmon v. Clagett, 3 Bland's Chancery, 179; Peyton v. Ayres, 2 Maryland Chancery, 67; King v. Longworth, 7 Ohio Rep., pt. 2, 232; Campbell
v. MaComb, 4 Johnson's Chancery, 534.
Z Bunner v. Storm, 1 Sandford's Chancery,'8&0; Champlin v. Champlin,
3 Edwards's Chancery, 577.

EX PARTE WARMOUTIE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

thorized to sell, without the intervention of a court of
equity.* The property when sold under the mortgage of
Hovey was hastening to decay.

When, he bought, it rented

for $5000 per year. When Sloan bought, its condition was
such that it could be rented for only $500.
When this bill was filed nearly eight years had elapsed
since the sale was made to Sloan. Making allowance for
the difficulty of intercourse between the North and the
South during the war, there was acquiescence, express and
implied, for three years after, the war ceased. This, if not
conclusive, weighs heavily against the complainant. Ve
see no reason to disturb the decree. This conclusion has
rendered it unnecessary to consider so much -of the record
is relates to R. R. Bridgers and his associates and their vendee, Commodore Wilkes. We have given no thought to
that part of the case.
DECREE AFrnmE.

Justices MILLER, FIELD, and STRONG were absent.

EX PARTE WARMOUTH.
I. Where the Circuit Court of the United States proceeds to exercise jurisdiction under the twenty-third section of the act of 31st May, 1870, entitled "An act to enforce the rights of citizens of the United States to
vote in the several States of this Union, and for other ptrposes," an
appeal will lie to this court from its final decree.
2. This court has no power to issue the writ of prohibition in such a cause
until such appeal is taken.

SuR application of -1. 0. Warmouth, for a prohibition to
the circuit judge for the district 6fLouisiana.
The application now. made was filed-December 10tb, 1872,
based on a bill (and the proceedings under It) which had
*Demarest and Wife) v. Wynko op, 3 Johnson's Chancery, 184.

