836"

HUME v. BEALE'S EXECUTRIX.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

flUmE v. BEALE'S EXECUTRIX.
1. Although a former suit about the same subject-matter as a later one may
not operate strictly as res adjudicata, yet it may well be referred to when
it was heard'on the scene of the transaction complained of, and when it
relates to a transaction forty years old, isan element by which a conclusion at a later day in accordance. with its result may be assisted.
2. The rule of equity applied, that if a cestui que trust, after becoming sui
juris, has with full knowledge of a breach of trust, for a long time acquiesced in it, equity will not relieve him.
3. Accordingly, a bill by cestui que trusts was dismissed, where all thegrounds
of action had occurred between twenty and thirty years, and the alleged
breach of trust had taken place thirty-seven years before the bill was
filed, and the trustee was dead.
4. This, although the cestui que trusts were women and the trustee a lawyer,
who had married their half-sister.
ERRo- to the Supreme Court for the Dist.rict of Columbia;
the case being thus:
Benjamin Berry, of Prince George's County, Maryland,
owning a farm in that county, about. twenty miles from
Washington City, stocked with thirty slaves, and w~ith proper
animals and implements of husbandry, on which farm his
son and the wife Eleanor of this son, with their three children,
named respectively, Barbara', Amanda, *and Rosalie, were
living, conveyed it in"March, 1826 (his said son having then
recently died), to Robert Beale (a young lawyer of Washington City, a friend of th family, and who in 1829 married
a daughter of the said Mrs. Eleanor Berry, by a former
husband) on these trusts "and o other;" that is to say, "to
retain.the legal title to all the said property during the life
and widowhood of the said Eleanor, and after her death or
marriage, until such time as the eldest of the children shall
opinion relied on by counsel in the former case, with that expressing the
opinion of the court in the latter,.thejudgments of the court in ,the two cases
are in no way inharmonious. And the Reporter has already noted in his
syllabus of the former case that the judgment in it was given by a court
nearly equally divided, and that the. majority of the court who agreed in the
judgment did not agree in the grounds of it.

Dec. 1872.]

HUME v. BEALE'S EXECUTRIX.
Statemept of the case.

come of age or be married, on which event or events the said
Robert shall convey the unconditional title in fee to all the
property, both real and personal, unto th'e said children and
their heirs, or such of them as may be living at the time of
such conveyance, and to the issue of any such as may be
dead, &c. . . And the said Robert shall peruit the said
Eleanor to have and enjoy the sole and exclusive use of all
the said property for and during the time in which she shall
and may live and remain unmarried, without molestation or
hindrance of him, the said Robert, or said Benjamin, or any
other person or persons whatsoever."
On the 18th of December, 1827, Benjamin Berry, the
grantor, died.
In the autumn of 1828 Mrs. Eleanor Berry took up her
residence in Washington City, and there became acquainted
with, and; as was rumored, was married (secretly, in order
to avoid a forfeiture of her life estate), to a certain Col.
Owings. While "on the farm, according to the testimony,
she'" lived finely, and entertained a great deal." Her course
of life in Washington also was expensive. She had very
little property of her own, and that not in money.
. In the years 1828 and 1829, that is, after the death of Mr,
Berry, the grantor, and before the year 1830, nearly all the
slaves had disappeared from the farm; the slaves were "not
sold in a body but picked off one or two at a time; that is,
sent to a place where the traders could get them; locked
up there till the traders came."Most of the farm stock had equally disappeared.
Early in 1830 Beale filed a bill against Mrs. Berry in the
High Court of Chancery of Maryland to prevent her from'
further disposing of the personal property. And immediately thereafter, in 1830, under or in consequence of some
order of court, took possession of the land and what remained of the personal property.
In the summer of 1830 Mrs. Berry left her house in Washington City, and never returned to it; "went off travelling,"
said a witness in the case, "where, I do not know."
In December, 1830, the three children, by their uncle as
VOL. XVII.

22

838

HumE v. BEALE'S EXECUTRIX.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

next friend (he residing on an adjoining estate), filed a
bill in the County 'Court of Prince George's County, Maryland, against Beale, Mrs. Berry, and Owings (to whom the
bill alleged that she was married), setting forth the sale of
all the personal property and waste of the proceeds, and
praying the removal of Beale as trustee, an account, and
the appointment of a receiver. Mrs. Berry was not served
with process, being off travelling. A receiver was appointed
and gave bond. Beale appeared and answered. He admitted in his answer that Mrs. Berry, who, he asserted, had
been rightfully in possession and control of the property,
had, without his knowledge or authority, greatly impaired
and injured the value of the trust estate; and alleged that
finding all other means ineffectual to prevent her further
disposing of the property, lie had appealed for protection to
the High Court of Chancery of Maryland, which was granted,
and that he had abandoned his residence in Washington at
great personal sacrifice, and was living on the farm for the
purpose of taking care of it and what remained of the per-sonal property. He denied that he was in anywise remiss
or negligent of his duties as trustee, or that he had anything.
:to do with the sale of the negroes or other personalty. The
.cause was regularly heard, and i decree made dismissing the
:bill.
In February, 1833, the daughter Barbara married Mr.
THume.
In 1834 the trust property was sold under a decree of the
court; the share of each of the three daughters being $3000.
The share of the youngest daughter, Miss Rosalie, was left
in the hands of Beale, who was intrusted by the said Miss
Rosalie with the management of it. This money was paid,
after Miss Rosalie's death, to her adfninistratrix and sister,
Mrs. Hume.
In 1839, Mrs. Hume attained the age of 21 years.
In September, 1842, -Mr. Hume died.
In 1843, Mrs. Eleanor Berry was married to one Ferguson.
In November, 1844, Amanda married Mr. Crosby.

Dec. 1872.]

Hu mE v.

BEALE'S EXECUTRIX.

3839

Statement of the case.

In January, 1857, Mrs. Eleanor Ferguson (Berry) died.
In September, 1857, Mr. Crosby died.
In May, 1860, Iiss Rosalie Berry died unmarried; her
sister, Mrs* Hume, becoming her administratrix.
In November, 1866, Mr. Beale, the trustee, died, leaving
his daughter executrix of his estate.
In April, 1867, the surviving daughters, Mrs.'ume and
Mrs. Crosby (their husbands being now dead), filed a bill in
the court belowagainst this executrix of Beale, alleging that
he bad sold and converted to his own use a considerable
portion of the personal property, the proceeds of which he
had used very advantageously to himself, and had suffered
Mrs. Berry, the widow, to squalider the rest. The bill giving -s an excuse for not instituting proceedings sooner,
that Beale iad from time to time put the complainants off
with promises of settlement; that having married their halfsister, "he took advantage of that relationship to abuse
the confidence which the relationship naturally inspired,
and to turn the same to his own pecuniary interest and advantage."
The answer denied the breach of trust, and while alleging
that the transactions narrated in the bill, so far as they were
founded in truth, occurred nearly forty years before, and
b'efore the respondent was born, and consequently that she
could have no personal knowledge of the circumstances, yet
set forth a narrative of facts which tended to shdw that the
waste of the property was committed solely by Mrs. Berry,
and that Beale had used his efforts to prevent it, and did
finally arrest it, but not until most of the personal property
had been made away with. It stated that the farm, and'what
trust property remained, had prior to 1834 been sold by
order of the court, by trustees duly appointed, and the proceeds distributed. It denied that Beale ever made the admissions, promises, and excuses alleged in the bill, or that
the complainants ever asserted against him in his lifetime
the claim now made or any claim; and asserted contrariwise
that the coriplainants had received all that they were entitled to, and that their husbands had used what money they

840

HUME

[Sup. Ct.

V. BEALE's EXECUTRIX.
Statement of the case.

had, and left them, in widowhood, dependent on their relatives.
The answer set up also certain special .defences asThe suit against Beale in the County Odurt of Prince
George's County.
The statute of limitation [three years in the District], and
independently of it the laches and lapse of time.
The testimony chiefly relied on by the complainants was
that of Mrs. Hume, one of the complainants; of a white
witness narned Douglass, of another, named Brashears, and
of two old colored servants, Johnson and Brooks, who had
been on the farm.
testimony of Mrs. Hume was received'under the act
of The
Congress
of July 2d, 1864,4 which enacts
that
"In courts of the United States there shall be no exclusion
of any witness... in civil actions, because he is a party to or
interested in the issue joined ;"

no objection having been raised to it, so far as appeared by
the record, under the act of March 3d, 1865,t amendatory to
the said act, which amendatory act provides"That in actions by or against executors, administrators, or
guardians, in which judgment may be rendered for or against
them, neither party shall be allowed to testifyagainst the other
as to any transaction with or statement by the testator, intestate or ward, unless called to testify by the opposite party."
Mrs. Hume testified as follows:
"After my grafdfather Berry's death, in 1827, the property
commenced t6 go. It went by degrees. From 1828 to the
summer of'1830 everything was spent except some old negroes.
They 'vere sold by my mother and Mr. Beale.' The real estat6
was sold by commissioners appointed by'the court. My hitsband received my portion in person. - Mr. Beale paid me my
sister's portion in driblets. He never paid me anything else.
I called upon him repeatedly to settle his trusteeship. Three
or four years before his death, 'most every time I saw him, I
* 15 Stat. at. Large, 351.

t

Ib. 583.

Dec. 1872.]

EUME v. BEALE'S F4XEOUTRIX.
Statement of the case.

asked him for a settlement, and told him my inability to live.
I told him my situation, and told him it was very destitute.
These conversations occurred almost every time I saw him. I
told him almost every week, when I saw him, that it was high
time to make a settlement. He did not give me any money,
and be never made any settlement. He made a great many
promises, and that isall. The reason I never instituted this
suit before was he made so many promises from time to time
that he would settle. He never made me any payments at all
outside of the $3000 which he received as my share of the pro.
ceeds of the farm. At the conversations I have spoken of,
about a settlement, no one was present but ourselves. He
never talked before third persons unless they were interested.
I occasionally wrote to Mr.Beale, and he answered my letters.
In his letters lie never spoke anything of the wasted property.
I never wrote to him about any of it,except some servants that
Otho Beale bought, and Mr.Beale (for me) brought suit to recover them. I always thought that Mr.Beale got part of the
money that the personal estate sold for. My husband thought
Mr.Bealb had done very wrong. ie'was bimselfa lawver. He
spoke to me in his lifetime, in 1834 or 1835, of bringing a suit,
and asked'me to join him. I told him itwas of no use, as Mr.
Beale was poor ,andwe could make nothing out of him at that
time.
"I never was present when any negroes were sold. I never
saw any money paid by the traders for them. My mother had
some negroes wi'bh came by her mother's (Mrs.Lane's) estate.
Mrs. Lane was rich. They came to her before her marriage
with my father, Mr.Berry, Jr. They were made over to my
half-brother and to Mrs. Beale, my half-sister."

Douglass, who testified that he had owed some money to
Mr.Beale, said:
"Mr. Beale was pressing me for the money. He said that he
owed these ladies (half-sisters of his wife) some money, and
that he wanted the money for them. These conversations ran
through a number of years, to the day that I settled with him.
lHe said that he wanted $5000. I. do not remember that he
mentioned real estate to me. lie told me that the way he became indebted to the ladies was that he had charge of their
money, and had borrowed it. He said that he must raise thA

. 42

IUME V.

REALE'S EXECUTRIX.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.
money from me or sell his house to raise it. In speaking of
these ladies, I think he mentioned one of them as Berry: he
simply used the name of Berry."
Brashears testified only that he lived on an adjoining farm
and knew Beale; that when Beale was appointed trustee,
he was regarded as poor, and that he afterwards owned a
house in which he lived; that he thought Beale had exercised control over the farm from the time he was married;
and that "the property on it was pretty generally on the
travel from the time Mrs. Berry moved to Washington till
it was all sold."
One of the old slaves, Brooks, testified thus:
"fMr. Beale bad no property, before he was married, but a
house. After the deed of trust was given and Mr. Beale got
the property in his own hands he was like the green bay tree
by the river of water. He spread out-he got everything he
wanted. He bad control as a master over everything; to sell
or not to sell, as be pleased. If -he chose to do anything, Mrs.
Berry could not stop him. I never saw him do anything, because I was not present, but I know he disposed of all the property. I never saw him take away any of the property; I mean,
saw him sell any, and I never saw. him -receive any money for
it. The only way that I know he sold the slaves was that I
missed them, and as they could not be sold by law without his
consent, I believe he sold them. I know it must have been
done by his consent, because nobody else could have done
it. He was the guardian of the children. Before lrs. Berry
moved 'to Washington, she lived in very handsome style and
had plenty of everything. She was rich."
The other negro, Johnson, testified:
"As far as I know, Mrs. Berry and Mr. Beale were hand-inglove, and between them they sold the colored people; somewhere in the neighborhood of thirty-five; not one was left to
tell the tale. Mr. Beale would come down from Washington
once or twice a week. I don't know who received any of the
money for the negroes. I have seen the negro-traders there
often. Mr. Beale would bring them down there from the city,
and have the negroes hiding about like young rabbits. And I

Dec. 1872.]

HuME

v. BEALE'S EXECUTRIX.

343

Statement of the case.

have often beard the servants say that they thought 31r. Beale
ought to interfere and protect the children. I never knew him to
interfere to prevent them being sold. He only told me that he
would see that I was not sold to Georgia. My wife belonged to
him. She came from old Mrs. Lane. I never saw Mr. Beale
have any possession of any of the servants, except when any of
them were to be sold, when, of course, he always had a hand in
it. There were only two old~men and two old women, three or
four house servants, and myself left on the farm after Mrs.
Berry came to Washington. I flew the track; they sold me
running. I think one of the old ones that were left was afterwards sold to a brother of old Mr.Berry. Xirs. Eleanor Berry
bad no property when she married young Mr. Berry. His
father gave him the farm, and stock, and servants, and let him
have it to make what he could, but gave him no title to it, or
any of it, because his wife had the reputation of being an extravagant woman, and he was fearful that the children might come to
want."
Certain letters were introduced by the defendants from
Mrs. Hume to Mfr. Beale, by way of discrediting her testimony. They were of a very confidential kind. Parts of
them were thus:
"NASHVILLE, December 1st, 1837.
"DEAR AIR. BEALE: You will oblige me very much, if you can
spare the time, to go to Marlboro' this court, for the purpose of
getting the money, or a part of it, that is due me. I am very
much in want at this time. I would not trouble you, but necessity is the first law of nature; therefore I was compelled to address you. My circumstances are such that I cannot do without a little money. Mr. Hume is out of employment entirely;
dissipated and too indolent to exert himself for a support. We
are all living with his inother; she is not able to keep us, and
can hardly get along with'her own family. I cannot stay here.
I am a.stranger-here, no one to aid me in the most trifling matter. If I was where I was known I could get along somehow
or other. I should like to be with my relations. I think Otho
Beale would help me if he knew my situation. I should like to
get in a school as an assistant teacher, so as I could be making
a living for myself and children. I would exert myself to the
utmost to get along. I have said enough of this matter for you

HUME V. BEALE'S EXECUTRIX.

[Sup. Ot.

"Argumentfor the eestui que trusts.

to judge of my situation. . . . I wish I had never have left the
bity, and have'taken your good advice. I cannot say any more.
You can sde what my feelings are. Do answer this, and please
to attend to the request I have made of you about getting the
nroney. Give my best love to sister and brother, and accept a
great share of love from
"Your true friend,
"BARBARA."

"June 5th, 1846.

" . BEALE, EsQ.: Your note has been received in which you
refuse to see nie again, and, strange to say, you have charged
me with falsehood, duplicity, and treachery. -What crime have
I committed that you should apply such-epithets to my name?
Thank God, I have an approving conscience; one that can say
I have never, my dear brother, wronged you in thought or
word. I always spoke of you in the most affectionate manner.
I admit I have been in error, but am ready to make reparation.
Don't judge me s6 harshly.. You have wronged me. Forgive
the innocent.* I truly repeat, my dear brother, speak kindly to
me, and don't cast me on the cold world without a cent. I will
go to Baltimore; stay there iretirdment. Time will show you
that I am not what you.consider me. I will not stay here
longer. . . . Soon a lonely-grave will be the oniy mark that I
shall leave behind me. I wvish to see you once more. , I shall
be then better satisfied. Don't refuse me this small favor. No
money or friends! Heaven's support in this hour of affliction
is all I pray for.
"B."
It appeared that the husbands of both Mrs. Hume and
Mrs. Crosby (the daughters Barbara and Amanda) were improvident men, who always wanted money.
The court below being equally divided in opinion the bill
was dismissed, and +he complainants took this appeal.
Messrs. Moore and Hughes, for the appellants, the complainants
below:
The claim of the complainants is not barred by the lapse
-of time or the statute of limitations. The trust is an express

Dec. 1872.]

HUME V. -VEALE'S EXECUTRIX.

345

Argument for the eestui que trusts.

trust. The- trustee was the brother-in-law of the complainants, and when he took possession of their property they
were of tender years. It is not pretended that any settlement of Beale's trnsteeship was ever made. No account
was ever rendered to the court, or anywhere else, by Beale.
A large amount of personal property came to his hands.
The deed of trust vested the legal title to all of the property
in him, and 'Mrs. Berry had nothing but the use under said
deed. That Beale profited by it is show'n by the testimony
of Mrs. Hume, and of Johnson and Brooks, old family servants. That he abknowledged his obligation, and promised
to pay, is shown by the testimony of Mrs. Hlume and of
Douglass. The case is one where two dependent females,
sisters-in-law to the trustee, looked to him, leaned upon
him, and trusted him to take care of the estate which had
been left them by their grandfather. They, of course, were
reluctant to believe that their brother-in-law would wrong
them, and his repeated promises doubtless kept them from
calling him to a settlement in court long ago,
Under suei a state of facts, neither the lapse of time nor
statute of limitations can avail. The principle settled by
this court in 3lichoud v. Girod," rules the case. In that case
the court, speaking of the acquiescence of parties like the
complainants here, say:
"We can only see in their conduct the fears and forbearance
of dependent relatives, far distant from the scenes of the transactions of which they complain, desirous of having what was
due to them, and suspecting it'had been withheld, but unwilling
to believe that they had been wrofiged by brothers with whom
they had been associated in a common interest by another
brother who was dead. In a case of actual fraud courts of
equity give relief after a long lapse of time, niuch longer than
has passed since the 'executors in this instance purchased their
testator's estate. In general, length of time is no bar to a trust
ciearly established to have once existed; and where fraud is imputed and proved length of time ought not to exclude relief."
4 Howard, 197.

lUME v. BEALE'S EXECUTR[IX.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the trustee's executrix.

Messrs. J. X. Carlisle and J..D. MePherson, contra, argued:

That the complainants were estopped in the proceeding in
the County Court of Prince George's County in December,
1830.
That Beale was trustee of a mere dry legal estate, and
that the duties of such trustees are confined to three objects:
1st. To permit the cestui que trust t6 enjoy the estate; 2d.
To execute conveyances when necessary; "3d. To defend
the title of cestui que trust in any court of law or equity, or at
any rate to suffer his name to be used for that purpose."*
"It is not his duty to bring suits, but only to allow his name
to be used, and this not until security has been given by the
cestui que trust for costs."t
That it could never have been contemplated that Mr.
Beale, a young lawyer in Washington City, should act the
part of a slave-master and overseer of a farm, twenty
miles off.
That so far as evidence of Mr. Beale's misconduct as
trustee came from Mrs. lume, one of the con.plainants, it
should be disregarded as having been received in violation
of the act of Congress of March 3d, 1865; while so far as
it came from the old slaves, Johnson and Brooks, who naturally wished to testify in favor of their young mistress; it was
destroyed by the very witnesses themselves; and that if Mr.
Beale ever did bring slave-traders to the farm to buy slaves,
it was doubtless to buy his own wife's slaves; those that
came from Mrs. Lane, her grandmother, anul were on the
farm, but were not among those conveyed by old MIr. Berry.
That there was no evidence that Beale ever grew rich, beyond owning a house in which he lived; while it was shown
that his wife had some property.
That the testimony of Douglass was sought to be perverted.
Consider that testimony. If Mr. Beale was speaking of
what he owed Mrs. Hume and Mrs. Crosby, in their own
right, he would have used their names, and not have used
the name-of Berry, which they had laid aside years before;
* Hill on Trustees, 316-17.

tlb.

Dec. 1872.]

HumE V. BEALE'S EXECUTRIX.
Opinion of the-court.

he would have had no occasion to speak of owing any one
named Berry at all. Mr. Beale, "said he had charge of
their money, and borrowed it." That was the way in which
he owed Miss Rosalie, and that certainly was not the way in
which he owed the complainants. If he owed them anything, it was because he had fraudulently sold their slaves,
and not because he had borrowed their money.
That the laches were gross; the lapse of time in connection with the death of the party charged with mal-administration, conclusive. In Prevost v. Gratz,* this court says:
"Fraud or breach of trust ought not lightly to be imputed to
the living, for the legal presumption is the other -way; and as
to the dead, who are not here to answer for themselves, it would
be the height of injustice and cruelty to disturb their ashes, and
violate the sanctity of the grave, unless the evidence of fraud
be clear beyond a reasonable doubt."
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court..
It is undeniable that the waste and misappropriation of
property ,for which relief is sought, occurred prior to 1830.
This is apparent, not only by the testimony of the living
witnesses, but by the papers in the suit commenced in the
County Court of Prince George's County, Maryland, where
the property was situated, in behalf of the children, for
whom Benjamin Berry, in his deed, made provision, by their
uncle and next friend, for the same cause of action as that
comprised in the present suit.
While it is not necessary for the purposes of this case to
decide whether this decree can be treated as a former adjudication of the matters in controversy, yet it is quite clear
that forty years ago a Maryland court of equity, sitting on
the spot where the transactions occurred, while they were
fresh in the memory of men, did not believe Beale guilty of
the breach of trust with which he was charged, and that the
near kindred of the complainants acquiesced in the result
of that suit.
* 6 Vheaton, 481,498; and see Pratt v. Vatier, 9 Peters, 416; and Knight
v. Taylor, 1 Howard, 161, 168.

HumE v. BEALE'S EXECUTRIX.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Whether Beale, under the deed of Benjamin Berry, was
the trustee of a mere dry, legal estate, or whether his duties
and responsibilities extended further, it is not important to
determine. In any aspect of the case, there has been such
gross laches on the part of the cestui que trusts that they have
disentitled themselves to the relief which they seek to obtain. It is an .established rule with. courts of equity, independent of any statute limiting the time in which suits can
be brought, that they will not entertain stale demands. This
rule is necessary from considerations of public policy, and
because it is impossible to do entire justice when the transactions sought to be impeached have bec6me obscure by
lapse of time, and the evidence on the subject is liable to be
lost. Story, referring to the rule imposing diligence upon
parties seeking relief, says: "Hence, if there be a clear
breach of trust by a trustee; yet, if the cestid que trust or
beneficiary has for a long time acquiesced in the misconduct
of the trustee, with full know~ledge of if, a court of equity
will not relieve him, but leave him to bear the fruits bf his
own negligence or infirmity of purpose."*
This rule, requiring the party injured to seek redress in
reasonable time; ha so often received the sanction of courts
bf equity in this country and England, that it is unnecessary
to cite authorities to sustain it.Whether the lapse of time
is sufficient to bar a recovery must, of necessity, depend
upoli the particular circumstances of each case.t
By the terms of the deed inthis case, the interest of Mrs.
Berry in the property termin'ated on her marriage or deatb,
and if the eldest child was of age or married,'on the happening of either of these events the entire trust ceased, and the
trustee'was directed'to convey the estate, real and personal,
to- the children and their heirs. It is alleged that Mrs.
Berry -was married to Owings in 1880. If this Were so, it
would account for her conduct in converting the personal
property to her use, but the evidence on the subject of this
*Equity

Jurisprudence,

ยง 1284.

t Harwood v. Railroad Co., supra, 78.

Dec. 1872.]

HumE v.

BEALE'S EXECUTRIX.

Opinion of the court.

mgrriage, although rendering it highly probable that it did
occur, is insufficient to establish it.
It is conceded, however, that she was married to Ferguson
in 1843, at which time the eldest child was not only of full
age, but had been married and was then a widow. These
occurrences, according to the terms of the deed, terminated
the trust,.but in point of fact it was terminated in 1834 or
1836, when the real estate was sold by order of the Prince
George's County Court. This sale is set up in the answer,
and Mrs. Hume testifies that the farm was sold by commissioners appointed by the court, and -that her husband, in
1836, received from them in person, her share of'the proceeds. It is in evidence that Mrs..Crosby was married in
1844, and she must have arrived at full age before that time.
It thus appears that all grounds of action, existing in this
case, must have occurred between twenty and thirty years
ago, and that the alleged breach of trust for which the estate
of Beale is asked to account took place thirty-seven years
before the institution of this suit.
Why have these complainants slept upon their rights for
this great length of time, and why have they delayed invoking the aid of a court of equity until the person charged
with misconduct is dead? It is plain this unusual delay
places them on the defensive, and requires satisfactory explanation before they can obtain relief.
It is alleged in the bill as an excuse for not suing earlier
that Beale put the complainants off from time to time with
promises to settle his trusteeship, and did not deny that he
was largely indebted to them on that account. This allegation receives support only in the testimony of Mrs. Hume,
who had no right to testify as to any conversation or transaction with the decedent unless the opposite party or the
court wished her to do it.* This rule of exclusion was imposed by Congress in the interest of dead men's estates, but
as the record does not disclose any objection to the competency of the witness her testimony will be treated as if right* 15 Stat. at Large, 533.

HUME

v. BEALE'S EXECUTRIX.

I Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

fully given. She says,-in general terms, that she cElled on
Beale repeatedly to settle, and that he promised to 'do 0so,
and that these promises induced her not to sue him. This
is the extent of her testimony on the subject, and he'r statement is so general and so obviously necessary to avoid the
bar of the statute of limitations and of lapse of time, Which
were pleaded, that it carries little weight with it. It Would
never do to hold that a stale demand of such long standing
could have vitality imparted to it, on the mere statement of
a party in interest that the decedent promised to settle.
There must be some corroborating circumstances to call into
activity the powers of a court of equity, and these are wholly
wanting in this case. No one was ever present at any of
these conversations, and there is no specification of time or
place, nor does she say that Beale ever admitted any indebtedness on account of this trust. Besides, she never wrote
to him, nor did he ever write to her on the subject, which is
a little remarkable, considering her destitute situation from
1837 to the commencement of this suit. Indeed, the letters
which she did write to him in 1837 and 1846 are inconsistent with the idea that she thought he intended to defraud
her, which she now says she always entertained.
There is nothing in the record except this testimony that
tends even to show that Beale. ever admitted he was chargeable for the wrongful conversion of the property in question.
He expressly disclaims this liability in the Maryland suit in
1830, and the court could not have rendered the decree it
did without being satisfied at least that lie was not personally concerned in the waste of the property. It is hard to
believe, on the unsupported testimony of a party in interest,
that Beale at different times during a long life confessed a
liability which he repudiated on the occasion of that litigation.
It is a little singular that Beale should have confified his
promises to Mrs. Hume, and not extended them to Mrs.
Crosby. Mrs. Crosby does not testify, and we do not learn
that either herself or husband, with whom she lived for thirteen years, ever manifested disapprobation of Beale's con-

Dec. :1872o.]

ALLEN V. MASSEY.

Syllabus.

duct. If the other sist~r5 Rosalie, who died unmarried in
1860, considered Beale had wronged her, she would not
have intrusted him, as she did, with the management of her
share of the money received from the sale of the farm.
There is otie other point in connection with the testimony
of Mrs. Hume- worthy of comment. She swears that, in
1834 or 1835, she advised her husband against suing Beale,
for the reason that he was poor and nothing could be made
out of him, and that her husband used to lend Beale money
and supersede his debts for him. If this be so, the theory
on which this case is prosecuted falls to the ground, for the
whole effort is to show that Beale got so rich immediately
after the conversion of the personal estate that he must have
shared the proceeds. It is argued that the conversations
which Beale had with Douglass refer to the obligations arising from his breach of trust, and that, therefore, Mrs. Hume
is sustained by the testimony of Douglass. But manifestly
Beale is not talking on this subject; he is talking about the
sum of $3000 which Miss Rosalie Berry got friom the sale of
the farm and placed in his hands to loan. This money he
owed the estate of Miss Berry, and was desirous of paying
to her next of kin, Mrs. Hume and Mrs. Crosby.
It is needless to pursue the subject further. If Beale was
guilty of misconduct in his character of trustee, the complainants had full knowledge of it and acquiesced in it for
a great length of time, and there is nothing shown in the
evidence to overcome the decisive influence of this knowl-

edge and acquiescence.

ALLEN V.

DECREE AFFIRmED.

MASSEY.

1. Under the statute of frauds of Missouri, as interpreted by the highest
court of that State, an interpretation which this court will follow, a sale
of household furniture in a house occupied jointly by vendor and vendee, both using the furniture alike, and there being no other change of
possession than that the vendor, after going around with the vendlee and

