HARTFORD IND. 00. v. DELTA CO.
139

Syllabus.

The decree is in a form long recognized as admissible in
such an admiralty proceeding. The principal part--that
which awards a recovery in damages for the collision-is
directed only against the claimant Elliot, not against him
and the surety. The only mention of the surety is in
the dependent and contingent part relating to the issue
of execution, and this part of the decree is based upon
provisions in Admiralty Rules 5, 12 and 20, under which,
where a release stipulation is given and the libelant obtains
a decree for the payment of money, summary process of
execution may be issued against the principal and sureties
for the purpose of enforcing the decree.
We think the decree is to be read in connection with
the applicable statute and admiralty rules and that when
so read it is not joint. That it might have been made joint
is not of present importance. There was no requirement
that it be so made, and in fact it was not so made. So,
giving effect to the face of the record, as the rule in the
Bunn case requires, we are of opinion that the Circuit
Court of Appeals erred in holding that the claimant's
appeal, without the surety joining therein; could not be
entertained. The decree of that court is accordingly reversed, and the cause is remandedto it for consideration
and disposal on the merits.
I Decree reversed.
HARTFORD ACCIDENT & INDEMNITY CO. ,TAL.
v. DELTA & PINE LAND CO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 650. Argued March 15, 1934.-Decided April 9, 1934.
1. A contract between a Connecticut and a Mississippi corporation,
whereby the former insured the latter against loss through dishonesty of one of its employees "in any position anywhere," was
made in Tennessee, where both parties and the employee were

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

present, and contained a condition that any claim under the contract must be made within 15 months from the termination of
the suretyship. In an action for defalcations committed in Mississippi, where also both corporations did business, the courts of
Mississippi held. that the condition was contrary to the policy and
law of that State, and awarded judgment against the insurer-although the condition had not been complied with. Held that
such extension of the Mississippi law was beyond the jurisdiction
of the State and void under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 149.
2. Obligations of a contract lawfully made in another jurisdiction
may not be enlarged by a State to accord with all its own statutory
policies upon the ground that one of the parties is its own citizen.
P. 149.
3. A legislative policy which attempts to draw to the State of the
forum control over the obligations of contracts elsewhere validly
consummated and to convert them for all purposes into contracts
of the forum, regardless of the relative importance of the interests
"of the forum as contrasted with those created at the place of the
contract, conflicts with the guaranties of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 150.
169 Miss. 196, reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment sustaining a recovery from the

Indemnity Company in an action on an indemnity bond.
Mr. Win. M. Hall submitted for appellants.
Mr. Garner W. Green, with whom Messrs. Oscar John8ton and Marcellus Green were on the brief, for appellee.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This was an actioi instituted in a circuit court of Mississippi by Delta & Pine Land Company, a corporation of
tbat state with its principal place of business therein.
against Hartford Accident & Indemnity Company, a corporation of Connecticut, having its principal place of
business in Hartford in that state. The declaration alleges that on or about January 1, 1928. the plaintiff ap-

HARTFORD IND. CO. v. DELTA CO.
143

Opinion of the Court.,

.

plied to the defendant for a fidelity bond and paid the
agreed premiums therefor, and the defendant executed and
delivered to the plaintiff such a bond, whereby it bound
itself to pay the plaintiff, within sixty days after satisfactory proof, pecuniary loss sustained by the plaintiff
through fraud or dishonesty or wilful misapplication by
any employee" in any position, anywhere," from the time
that the name of such employee should be placed upon a
schedule attached to the bond to and including the termination of the suretyship for such employee by his dismissal, retirement from service, discovery of loss, or cancellation of the bond by the parties. It is alleged that the
name of H. H. Harris, as treasurer of the plaintiff appears
upon the schedule, and that the amount of coverage for
him is $25000. Sundry defalcations by Harris between
May 9, 1929, and December 20, 1929, totaling $2703.79,
are set forth, all of which and the resulting loss occurred
in the first judicial district of Bolivar county, Mississippi.
The further material matters charged are that the defendant throughout all the times mentioned in the declaration, and ever since, was and now is duly qualified and
licensed to do business in Mississippi; that the dishonest
acts of Harris were discovered on or about May 20, 1931,
immediate notice given to the defendant at its home office,
and affirmative, proof of loss under oath, with full particulars, filed with the defendant at its home office within
three months after the discovery. The declaration in conclusion asserts compliance by plaintiff with all the terms
of the bond, and refusal of the defendant, though requested, to make payment of the sum demanded. Annexed to the declaration are copies of the bond and the
supplementary schedules forming part of it.
The defendant's plea was, in substance: the plaintiff,
before and at the date of the contract of suretyship, was
doing business in Tennessee, with its principal office at
Memphis in that state, and defendant also was then and

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
. Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

is now doing business in Tennessee, having an agency at
Memphis; plaintiff, through its office at Memphis, applied
to defendant through its agency there for the bond, rider
and schedules containing the name of the defaulting employee, Harris, constituting the contract of suretyship;.
defendant through its agency at Memphis executed and
delivered the bond and schedules to plaintiff at its office in
that city; the contract is a Tennessee contract and governed by the laws of Tennessee, and full faith and credit
must be given to it in the courts of Mississippi in accordance with the requirements of Article IV, § 1, Article I,
§ 10, and § 1 of the 14th Amendment of the Constitution
of the United States; there was not at the time of delivery of the contract, and is not now, any statute in Tennessee prohibiting or invalidating the condition or limitation
in the contract to the effect that any claim thereunder
must be duly made upon the defendant as surety within
fifteen months after the termination of the suretyship for
the defaulting employee, and the plaintiff did not make
claim upon the defendant for the loss within fifteen
months after the termination of the suretyship for Harris,
as the contract was cancelled and terminated December
31,1929, and the plaintiff made no claim until June 22,
1931.
To this plea the plaintiff demurred, assigning these
causes of demurrer: (1) the construction and validity of
the provision of the contract relied upon in the plea is to
be determined by the laws of Mississippi, and not by the
laws of Tennessee; (2) the statute of limitations of the
state where suit is brought is the statute which governs
the time for bringing this action, and the provision in the
contract requiring that any claim thereunder must be
made upon the defendant within fifteen months after the
termination of the suretyship for the defaulting employee
is in violation of § 2294 of the Mississippi Code of 1930,
and in violation of the public policy of Mississippi, and

HARTFORD IND. CO. v. DELTA CO.
143

Opinion of the Court.

its courts are not required to give full faith and credit to
this provision of the contract by Article IV, § 1, Article I,
§ 10, or § 1 of the 14th Amendment of the Constitution.
The cause came on for hearing upon the pleadings, and
the court sustained the demurrer. The defendant declined
to plead further; whereupon judgment was
entered by default in favor of the plaintiff, a jury was impaneled and assessed damages at the amount claimed,
and final judgment was accordingly entered.
Upon appeal by the defendant the Supreme Court of
Mississippi affirmed the judgment. Conceding that under
the decisions of the Supreme Court of Tennessee the
provision for notice within fifteen months of the termination of the suretyship is a valid limitation of liability
and not a limitation of action, the court said the converse is true in Mississippi. Although the bond was
executed and delivered and the agreement consummated
in Tennessee, where the plaintiff and the defendant's
agent had their respective offices, and where, in the absence of proof of a contrary intent, the contract was to
be performed, the court concluded that the statutes of
Mississippi made the instrument a Mississippi contract,
and annulled the contractual limitation of the time for
giving of notice of claim.
The Mississippi statutes relied upon were the following:
"A contract of insurance is an agreement by which one
party for a consideration promises to pay money or its
equivalent, or to do some act of value to the assured,
upon the destruction, loss or injury of something in which
the assured or other party has an interest, as an.indemnity therefor; and it shall be unlawful for any company to
make any contract of insurance upon, or concerning any
property or interest or lives in this state, or with any resident thereof; or for any person as insurance agent or insurance broker to make, negotiate, solicit, or in any manner aid in the transaction of such insurance unless and

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

except as authorized under the provisions of this chapter.
All contracts of insurance on property, lives or interests
in this state shall be deemed to be made therein.'!
(§ 5131, Mississippi Code, 1930.)
"The limitations prescribed in this chapter shall not be
changed in any way whatsoever by contract between parties, and any change in such limitations made by any contract stipulation whatsoever shall be absolutely null and
void; the object of this statute being to make the period
of limitations for the various causes of action the same for
all litigants." (§ 2294, Mississippi Code, 1930.)
The state Supreme Court said:
"But clearly under section 5131, Code 1930, defining
insurance, this indemnity bond is a contract of insurance
within the purview of that statute; and, further, it being
expressly provided therein that all contracts of insurance
on property, lives, or interests in this state shall be deemed
to be made therein, in our judgment, makes the contract
herein under review a Mississippi contract and solvable
under the laws of this state. The contract here provided
or stipulated that the appellee should be indemnified from
loss by the defalcation of H. H. Harris in any position
anywhere, and when he, the employee and the insured
herein, removed to Mississippi and there defaulted, so far
as the appellee is concerned its interest was insured or
indemnified by the appellant in Mississippi, and, under
the provision quoted from the above statute, became operative, and this state is obligated to enforce it, as a
Mississippi contract, although it contained all the elements necessary to make it a Tennessee contract, but for
the statute."
"When the statute declares that such a contract shall
be deemed to be made in this state, it means that the
conflict of law between the two states is eliminated, and

HARTFORD IND. CO. v. DELTA CO.
143

149

Opinion of the Court.

thereby, . . . a contract for fifteen months' notice was
a limitation of the action unenforceable as such in this
state."
The Mississippi statutes, so construed, deprive the appellant of due process of lav. A state may limit or prohibit the making of certain contracts within its own territory (Hooper v. California,155 U.S. 648; Orient Insurance
Co. v. Daggs, 172 U.S. 557, 565-6; New York Life Ins.
Co. v. Cravens, 178 U.S,. 389, 398-9); but it cannot extend
the effect of its laws beyond its borders so as to destroy
or impair the right of citizens of other states to make a
contract not operative within its jurisdiction, and lawful
where made. New York Life Ins. Co. v. Head, 234 U.S.
149; Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Dunken, 266 U.S. 389, 399.
Nor may it in an action based upon such a contract enlarge the obligations of the parties to accord with every
local statutory policy solely upon the ground that one of
the parties is its own citizen. Home Insurance Co. v.
Dick, 2S1 U.S. 397, 407-8.
It is urged, however, that in this case the interest insured was in Mississippi when the obligation to indemnify
the appellee matured, and it was appellant's duty to make
payment there; and these facts justify the state in enlarging the appellant's obligation beyond that stipulated in
the bond, to accord with local public policy. The liability
was for the payment of money only, and was conditioned
upon three events,-loss under the policy, notice to the
appellant at its home office, and presentation of claim
within fifteen months of the termination of the suretyship.
All of these conditions were of substantial importance, all
were lawful in Tennessee, and all go to the obligation of
the contract. It is true the bond contemplated that the
employee whose faithfulness was guaranteed might be in
any state. He was in fact in Mississippi at the date of
loss, as were both obligor and obligee. The contract be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

ing a Tennessee contract and lawful in that state, could
Mississippi, without deprivation of due process, enlarge
the appellant's obligations by reason of the state's alleged
interest in the transaction? We think not. Conceding
that ordinarily a state may prohibit performance within
its borders even of a contract validly made elsewhere, if
the performance would violate its laws (Home Insurance
Co. v. Dick, supra, p. 408), it may not, on grounds of
policy, ignore a right which has lawfully vested elsewhere,
if, as here, the interest of the forum has but slight connection with the substance of the contract obligations. Here
performance at most involved only the casual payment of
money in Mississippi. In such a case the question ought
to be regarded as a domestic one to be settled by the law
of the state where the contract was made. A legislative
policy which attempts to draw to the state of the forum
control over the obligations of contracts elsewhere validly
consummated and to convert them for all purposes into
contracts of the forum regardless of the relative importance of the interests of the forum as contrasted with those
created at the place of the contract, conflicts with the
guaranties of the Fourteenth Amendment. Aetna Life
Ins. Co. v. Dunken, supra; Home Insurance Co. v. Dick,
supra. Cases may occur in which enforcement of a contract as made outside a state may be so repugnant to its
vital interests as to 'justify enforcement in a different
manner. Compare Bond v. Hume, 243 U.S. 15, 22. But
clearly this is not such a case.
Our conclusion renders unnecessary a consideration of
the claims made under the full faith and credit and contract clauses of the federal constitution.
The jugigment is reversed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

