INT. MILLING CO. v. COLUMBIA CO.

511

Syllabus.

498

is necessary for the Commission to find that the rates
from the group as a whole are reasonable, before it can
raise the intrastate rates. Compare Georgia Public Service Comm'n v. United States, 283 U.S. 765; State Corporation Comm'n v. Aberdeen & Rockfish R. Co., 136 I.C.C.
173. But it by no means follows that that body, before
it can remove discrimination against the district of origin
whose rates are under consideration, must find or make
reasonable rates adjusted to a different base rate and
applyifig from districts lying in -comparatively distant
areas.
The Commission has found that the interstate rates
from four districts of origin are reasonable. It has found
that Ohio intrastate rates, the transportation conditions
being similar, are, distance considered, out of relation to
these interstate rates, so as to create undue preference and
prejudice. These findings, supported by evidence, fully
justified the order with respect to the intrastate rates
under § 13 of the Act. Compare Louisiana Commission
v. Texa8 & N. 0. R. Co., 284 U.S. 125.
No. 868, Judgment affirmed.
No. 886, Appeal dismissed.
INTERNATIONAL

MILLING CO. v. COLUMBIA

TRANSPORTATION CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 561.

Argued February 16, 1934.-Decided May 28, 1934.

1. In determining whether a suit brought in a state court by one
foreign corporation against another on a foreign cause of action is
an unreasonable burden on the interstate commerce conducted by
the defendant and is therefore beyond the jurisdiction of the court,
the fact that the plaintiff is a resident of the State, in the sense
that its business is there, is of high significance. P. 519.
2. The business of a Delaware corporation, with its principal office

in Ohio, was carriage of merchandise by steamer in interstate and

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Respondent.

292 U. S.

foreign commerce, between ports on the Great Lakes and tributary
waters including ports of Minnesota. Its vessels navigated waters
of Lake Superior over which Minnesota and Wisconsin have concurrent jurisdiction, and it maintained at Duluth, Minnesota, an
agent who did whatever was necessary to facilitate loading and unloading of cargoes. When one of its vessels, bearing cargo partly
destined for Duluth, arrived in adjacent waters within the concurrent jurisdiction, it was attached in an action brought by another
Delaware corporation, whose business was in Minnesota, on a cause
of action for negligence in the transportation of cargo between Chicago, Illinois, and Buffalo, New York. Held:
. (1) That maintenance of the action would not be an unreasonable burden upon interstate commerce. P. 520.
(2) The forum being in other respects appropriate, jurisdiction
was not lost because the property subjected to the attachment was
an instrumentality of commerce, nor because the chief witnesses
on the trial resided in other States. P.521.
189 Minn. 516; 250 N.W. 190, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 290 U.S. 622, to review a judgment affirming a judgment which vacated for want of jurisdiction a
summons and attachment served on the master of a vessel
in an action against the owner for negligence in the transportation of cargo. See 189 Minn. 507; 250 N.W. 186.
Mr. James G. Nye, with whom Messrs.
Oscar Mitchell
and Albert C. Gillette were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Edgar W. MacPherran,with whom Messrs. Thomas

H. Garry, Carl V. Essery, and Thomas H. Adams were on
the brief, for respondent.
Maintenance of a suit against a foreign corporation engaged in interstate commerce on a cause of action arising
outside the State is, in the absence of consent, an unreasonable burden on interstate commerce. Davis v. Farm-

ers Co-operative Equity Co., 262 U.S. 312; Atchison, T.
& S. F. R. Co. v. Wells, 265 U.S. 101; Michigan CentralR.
Co. v. Mix, 278 U.S. 492; Denver & R. G. W. R. Co. v.

Terte, 284 U.S. 284. Distinguishing: Missouri ex rel. St.

INT. MILLING CO. v. COLUMBIA CO.
511

513

Argument for Respondent.

Louis, B. & M. R. Co. v. Taylor, 266 U.S. 200; Hoffman v.
Missouri ex rel. Foraker,274 U.S. 21; Denver & R. G. W.
R. Co. v. Terte, 284 U.S. 284 (as to Santa Fe).
The burden is objectionable regardless of the nature of
the process employed to subject the defendant to jurisdiction. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co. v. Wells, 265 U. S. 101;
Denver & R. G. W. R. Co. v. Terte, 284 U.S. 284.
While this Court has perhaps laid down no specific
rules as to when such an action will or will not be objectionable, it is clear from the adjudicated cases that it is
the burden imposed upon the defendant which renders
the maintenance of the action objectionable and that in
the absence of facts which render it clearly reasonable to
impose the burden, the maintenance of the suit will not
be allowed.
Petitioner is not a resident or a citizen of Minnesota.
For purposes of jurisdiction, the residence of a corporation is considered to be in the State where incorporated,
regardless of its doing business elsewhere. GermaniaFire
Ins. Co. v. Francis, 11 Wall. 210, 216; Ex parte Schollenberger, 96 U.S. 369, 377; PennsylvaniaR. Co. v. St. Louis,
A. & T. H. R. Co., 118 U.S. 290, 295; Shaw v. Quincy
Mining Co., 145 U.S. 444, 450; Seaboard Milling Co. v.
Chicago Ry. Co., 270 U.S. 363.
The decisions under the statute relating to removal of
actions from state to federal courts on the ground of diversity of citizenship, are applicable to the present question. Southern Ry. v. Allison, 190 U.S. 326; Missouri
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Castle, 224 U.S. 541.
While it is true that in the Davis case this Court left
open the question of what, if any, effect the fact that the
suit was instituted in the jurisdiction of which the plaintiff was a resident at the time of the accrual of the cause
of action might have, it is submitted that this question
has since been determined by the Terte case adversely to

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Respondent.

292 U. S.

the position taken by petitioner that residence of the
plaintiff is of importance. Cressey. v. Erie R. Co., 278
Mass. 284, distinguished.
The true doctrine enunciated by this Court in the Davis
case and succeeding cases is that regardless of the residence
of the plaintiff, a suit against a foreign corporation in a
jurisdiction unconnected with the cause of action constitutes a burden upon interstate commerce and can not be
maintained unless defendant has either expressly consented to be sued there, or, its operations in the State are
of such a character that consent must necessarily be
implied.
Respondent had neither consented to be sued in Minnesota nor was it carrying on such business there as to warrant the maintenance of this action. See Peoples Tobacco
Co. v. American Tobacco Co., 246 ,U.S. 79, 86; Philadelphia & Reading Ry. Co. v. McKibbin, 243 U.S. 264.
Minnesota's jurisdiction and territorial limits are covered by two separate sections of the Minnesota Conistitution. The first, § 1, Art.'II, defines the boundaries of the
State; the second, § 2 of the same Article, gives to Minnesota certain concurrent jurisdiction beyond its boundaries.
The attached vessel, up to the time of its attachment, had
not come within the boundaries of Minnesota. The respondent, whether on waters within the boundaries of
Minnesota, on waters without those boundaries but within
the so-called concurrent jurisdiction of Minnesota, or
whether on waters entirely outside any Minnesota jurisdiction, is operating upon the navigable waters of the
United States which are free to commerce under the
repeated decisions of this Court. The respondent, on the
other hand, only goes to the State as it secures cargoes
from other States destined to Minnesota. When, if ever,
it may again go to Minnesota is a matter of conjecture.
While it is true that the mere fact that the business
carried on by a corporation is entirely interstate in char-

INT. MILLING CO. v. COLUMBIA CO.
511

515

Opinion of the Court.

acter does not render that corporation immune from the
ordinary process of the courts of the State, International
Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U.S. '579, it does not follow that the mere carrying on of some business in the
State renders the foreign corporation amenable to suit
upon all causes of action. Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Chatters, 279 U.S. 320.
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner, plaintiff in the court below, is a Delaware
corporation, a dealer in grain, with its principal office and
place of business in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Respcndent, defendant below, is also a Delaware corporation, a
carrier by water, with its principal office in Cleveland,
Ohio. We are to determine whether in the circumstances
exhibited in the record a suit between the parties in the
courts of Minnesota is an unreasonable burden upon
interstate commerce.
On January 1, 1930, petitioner loaded a cargo of grain
on one of the vessels of respondent's predecessor for
transportation and storage. This vessel was the W. C.
Richardson, and the termini of the voyage were Chicago
and Buffalo. At one of those points or somewhere between them the grain was negligently handled while in
the carrier's possession with ensuing damage discovered
about the end of 1930. The defendant in this suit is a
successor corporation, which took over the business in
December, 1931, and assumed its liabilities.
The new corporation, like its predecessor, is a carrier
of merchandise in interstate and foreign commerce, picking up cargoes where it can get them, but principally
along the Great Lakes and in tributary waters. It has a
fleet of ten steamers which it uses for that purpose as
occasion requires. .Owing to slack business, the only
vessel in commission during the first half of 1932 was

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

the C. Russell Hubbard, which operated principally between ports on Lakes Superior and Michigan. On July
1, 1932, this vessel arrived at Duluth, Minnesota, carrying a cargo of coal from Sandusky, Ohio. While unloading in neighboring waters she was seized by the sheriff
under a writ of attachment sued out by the petitioner
in a District Court of the state. The summons and the
attachment writ were served on the master of the vessel,
who made report of the proceeding to the respondent's
agents at Duluth. These agents, a firm of vessel brokers,
were employed by the respondent as its Duluth representatives to act for it as might be necessary when its
boats were at the dock. They saw, to it that. the cargoes
were loaded, and unloaded, reported to their principal the
coming and going of the vessels, and issued bills of lading. Notice of an expected cargo came to them by telegraph, for there was no regular schedule to put them on
the watch. Payment was by the job, $10 for each cargo.
Like services had been rendered by the same agents since
1928, and, it may be, even earlier. Just how often they
had acted, the record does not tell us, though presumably
the facts were within the knowledge of the principal. If
there may be inferences from silence, we draw them
against the party who bears the burden of persuasion.
Promptly upon the seizure of the vessel, the respondent
filed an undertaking in the sum of $40,000, whereupon the
levy was released. Then, appearing specially, it moved
to vacate the attachment and the summons upon the
ground that the prosecution of the action in the state of
Minnesota would impose a serious and unreasonable burden upon interstate commerce, in contravention of Article I, Section 8, of the Constitution of the United States.
The District Court granted the motion. The Supreme
Court of Minnesota affirmed, three judges dissenting.
189 Minn. 507; 250 N.W. 186. Later there was a final
judgment in the District Court, and again an affirmance

INT. MILLING CO. v. COLUMBIA CO.
511

517

Opinion of the Court.

on appeal. 189 Minn. 516; 250 N.W. 190. A writ of
certiorari hAs brought the case here. 290 U.S. 622.
Our point of departure is the decision of this court in
Davis v. Farmers Co-.operative Equity Co., [1923] 262
U.S. 312. There a Kansas corporation brought suit in
Minnesota against the Director General of Railroads,
representing the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway
Company, also a Kansas corporation. The plaintiff was
not a resident of Minnesota, nor engaged in business
there. The railway company was not a resident of Minnesota, and did no business there, except to solicit traffic.
The cause of action had no relation to any local activity.
Service of process was made in reliance upon a Minnesota
statute (Laws of 1913, c. 218, p. 274) whereby every
foreign interstate carrier was compelled." to submit to
suit there as a condition of maintaining a soliciting agent
within the State." 262 U.S. at pp. 313, 315. Upon those
facts the ruling of this court was that the effect of the
statute, when applied to a carrier so situated, was an
unreasonable obstruction of interstate commerce. The
decision was confined narrowly within the bounds of its
own facts. "It may be," the court said (262 U.S. at p.
316), "that a statute like that here assailed would be
valid although applied to suits in which the cause of
action arose elsewhere, if the transaction out of which it
arose had been entered upon within the State, or if the
plaintiff was, when it arose, a resident of the State." The
facts in the Davis case were substantially identical with
those in Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Wells, 265 U.S.
101, decided a year later. Then, in 1929, Michigan Central R. Co. v. Mix, 278 U.S. 492, enforced the same conclusion where the plaintiff, a resident of Michigan at the
time of an accident, sued a Michigan railway company
in Missouri upon a Michigan cause of action, though the
defendant's only activity in Missouri was the maintenance
of an agency for the solicitation of business. The suit

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

was not saved because the plaintiff had moved into Missouri "after the injury complained of, but before instituting the action." "For aught that appears her removal
to St. Louis shortly after the accident was solely for the
purpose of bringing the suit; and because she was advised that her chances of recovefy would be better there
than they would be in Michigan." (278 U.S. at p. 495.)
There was no proof of such a relation between the residence or activities of the suitor and the forum chosen for
the suit as to make the choice a natural or suitable one,
and rid the burden on the carrier of at least a measure
of its hardship.
To be contrasted with these cases where jurisdiction
was denied because of the necessities of commerce is another series of cases where differentiating circumstances
led to a different result. Thus, in Missouri ex rel. St.
Louis, B. & M. R. Co. v. Taylor, [1924] 266 U.S. 200, a
Delaware corporation with a usual place of business in
Missouri brought suit in a Missouri court against the St.Louis, Brownsville & Mexico Railway Company, a Texas
corporation, operating a railroad in Texas and nowhere
else, jurisdiction being asserted solely by reason of the
garnishment of traffic balances due from a connecting
carrier. The cause of action was for damages to freight
originating in Texas on lines of the Brownsville Company
and shipped on through bills of lading to points in Missouri as well as other states. This Vourt rejected the carrier's contention that Davis v. Farmers Co-operative
Equity Co., supra, and Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Wells, supra, supplied the applicable rule. The opinion
pointed out (1) that for anything made to appear the
negligence of the connecting carrier may have occurred in
Missouri where the goods were to be delivered, and (2)
that "the plaintiff consignee is a resident of Missourithat is, has a usual place of business. within the State."

INT. MILLING CO. v. COLUMBIA CO.
511

519

Opinion of the Court.

"To require that, under such circumstances, the foreign
carrier shall submit to suit within a State to whose jurisdiction it would otherwise be amenable by process of
attachment does not unreasonably burden interstate commerce." 266 U.S. at p. 207. In line with that decision
is Denver & Rio Grande Western R. Co. v. Terte, [1931]
284 U.S. 284, where the plaintiff, a resident of Missouri,
had brought suit in a Missouri court upon a cause of action
for personal injuries suffered in Colorado. There were
two defendants, the Rio Grande railway company and the
Santa Fe. The first, a Delaware corporation, did not operate a railroad in Missouri, but had a traffic agency only.
As to it the suit was dismissed upon the authority of the
Davis case. The other defendant had part of its line in
Missouri, though the accident occurred elsewhere. Cf.
Hoffman v. Foraker, 274 U.S. 21. As to the defendant
so situated, jurisdiction was upheld. The groups are
clearly marked, and also the reasons for the grouping.
The question now is whether the defendant with its
steamship business shall be placed in the one group or
the other. At the outset, we mark the fact that the petitioner, though a Delaware corporation, is suing in the
state of its business activities. For many purposes, its
domicile in law is in the state of its creation (Shaw v.
Quincy Mining Co., 145 U.S. 444; Seaboard Rice Milling
Co. v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 270 U.S. 363), but it is
living its life elsewhere. In a very real and practical
sense, it is a resident of the forum, like the plaintiff in the
Taylor case (266 U.S. 200, 207), who was domiciled in one
state and resided in another. Certainly its relation to the
locality was so permanent and intimate as to relieve it of
the opprobrium of..an impertinent intruder when it went
into the local courts. In saying this we do not hold that
the residence of the suitor will fix the proper forum without reference to other considerations, such as the nature

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

of the business of the corporation to be sued. Denver &
Rio Grande Western R. Co. v. Terte, supra,is opposed to
such a holding. Residence, however, even though not
controlling, is a 'fact of high significance. Our next inquiry must be whether there is anything in the nature of
the activities of the defendant to overcome its force.
The defendant, though an interstate carrier, does not
do business like a railroad company along a changeless
route. It is engaged in transportation in Minnesota as
much as it is engaged in transportation anywhere, if we
exclude the activities of management that have, their
centre in Ohio. Its vessels navigate the waters of Lake
Superior, not merely occasionally, but by long continued
practice, and Minnesota and Wisconsin maintain over the
boundary waters of that lake a concurrent jurisdiction.
Constitution of Minnesota, Art. II, § 2; Constitution of
Wisconsin, Art. IX, § 1. At Duluth a designated agent
does whatever is necessary to facilitate the work of loading and unloading cargoes, and in the waters near at hand
there was a levy of an attachment upon property brought
into the state in the usual course of business. When
subjected to this levy, the carrier was not engaged in some
incidental or collateral activity, such as the solicitation of
freight to be carried at other times and places. It was
engaged, when thus subjected, in the very act of transportation, the dominant end and aim of its corporate
existence.
Viewing all these circumstances together, we find ourselves unable to conclude that by the prosecution of this
suit there has been laid upon the carrier a burden so
heavy and so unnecessary as to be oppressive and unreasonable. Rather we find a situation where the defendant,
chargeable with knowledge of the attachment laws of
Minnesota, brought its property into that state not fortuitously or by a rare accident, but in furtherance of a

INT. MILLING CO. v. COLUMBIA CO.
511

521

Opinion of the Court.

systematic course of business, and thereby subjected itself to suit quasi in rem, at the instance of a local creditor, who could not with equal convenience or facility
have sued it anywhere else. Such a suit may be a burden, but oppressive and unreasonable it is not. There is
no occasion to determine whether the conclusion would
be the same if an attachment had been levied upon property brought within the state through the voluntary act of
the defendant, but in an isolated instance, dissevered
from a course of dealing. In the circumstances of this
case, Missouri ex rel. St. Louis, B. & M. R. Co. v. Taylor,
supra, and Denver & Rio Grande Western R. Co. v. Terte,
supra, to the extent that the latter case involved a suit
against the Santa Fe, supply, when read together, the
applicable rule, and sustain the jurisdiction of the Minnesota courts.
The forum being in other respects appropriate, jurisdiction is not lost because the property subjected to the
attachment is an instrumentality of commerce (Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Wells, supra, p. 103; Davis v.
Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co., 217 U.S. 157), nor
because the chief witnesses on the trial reside in other
states, most of them, it seems, in Chicago, Illinois. "As
a practical matter, courts could not undertake to ascertain in advance of trial the number and importance of
probable witnesses within and without the State and retain or refuse jurisdiction according to the relative inconvenience of the parties." Denver & Rio Grande Western
R. Co. v. Terte, supra;p. 287; Hoffman v. Foraker,supra,
p. 22.
The judgment should be reversed and the cause remanded to the Supreme Court of Minnesota for further
proceeding not inconsistent with this opinion.

Reversed.

