MONACO v. MISSISSIPPI.
Statement of the Case.

PRINCIPALITY OF MONACO v. MISSISSIPPI.
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE DECLARATION.

No.

-,

original. Argued March 5, 1934.-Decided May 21, 1934.

1. This Court has no jurisdiction of a suit brought by a foreign State
against a State of the Union without her consent. Pp. 320, 330.
2. The need for such consent, though not expressed in Art. III, § 2,
cl. 1, of the Constitution, is clearly to be implied. P. 321.
3. Clause 2 of § 2, Art. III, of the Constitution, merely distributes
the jurisdiction conferred by Clause 1, and deals with cases in
which 'resort may be had to the original jurisdiction of this Court
in the exercise of the judicial power as previously given. P. 321.
4. Neither the literal sweep of the words of Clause 1, § 2, Art. III,
nor the absence of restriction in the letter of the Eleventh Amendment, permits the conclusion that in all controversies of the sort
described in Clause 1, and omitted from the words of the Eleventh
Amendment, a State may be' sued without her consent. P. 321.
5. Behind the words of these constitutional provisions are the essential postulates that the controversies shall be found to be of a
justiciable character and that the States of the Union, still possessing attributes of sovereignty, shall be immune from suits, without
their consent, save where there has been a surrender of this
immunity in the plan of the Constitution. P. 322.
6. There has been such a surrender of immunity as respects suits in
this Court brought by one State of the Union against another, or
by the United States against a State; but not as respects (1) suits
against a State brought by citizens of another State or citizens of
a foreign State (expressly barred by the Eleventh Amendment);
or (2) suits against a State of the Union by its own citizens or by
federal corporations; or (3) suits against a State of the Union by
foreign States. P. 328.
7. In construing the constitutional provision with respect to suits by
foreign States, consideration is given to the thought that such
suits may involve questions of national concern. P. 331.
Leave to file denied.
HEARING upon the application of the Principality of
Monaco for leave to bring in this Court an action against

Mississippi to recover the principal and interest of cer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Monaco.

292 U. S.

tain bonds issued by that State. Mississippi made her
return to a rule to show cause why the leave should not
be granted.
Messrs. Frederic R. Coudert and Dean Emery, with
whom Messrs. Ethelbert Warfield, Frederic R. Kellogg,
and Howard Thayer Kingsbury were on the brief, for
the Principality of Monaco.
Jurisdiction to entertain this action and render judgment is vested in this Court by the provisions of Art. III,
§ 2 of the Federal Constitution.
The Eleventh Amendment does not affect this jurisdiction.
In addition to the express provision of the Constitution
vesting original jurisdiction in the Supreme Court in cases
such as the one at bar, this Court has fully upheld the
right of foreign States and foreign sovereigns to bring
actions in the United States courts. Colombia v. Cauca
Co., 190 U.S. 524; Ex parte Muir, 254 U.S. 522; The
Sapphire, 11 Wall. 164.
In Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, Chief Justice Marshall, considering the Eleventh Amendment, said, at
p. 406:
" It does not comprehend controversies between two
or more States, or between a State and a foreign State.
The jurisdiction of the Court still extends to these cases:
and in these a State may still be sued."
The Supreme Court, having jurisdiction, can not refuse
to exercise it. Fisherv. Cockerell, 5 Pet. 248, 259; Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U.S. 373, 384; The St. Lawrence,
1 Black 522, 526.
The jurisdiction of this Court over the controversy is
fully supported by United States v. North Carolina, 136
U.S. 211; Virginia v. West Virginia, 220 U.S. 1; 238 U.S.
202; 241 U.S. 531; South Dakota v. North Carolina,192
U.S. 286.

MONACO v. MISSISSIPPI.
313

Argument for, Monaco.

The plaintiff is a foreign State within the meaning of

§ 2 of Art. III of the Constitution.
The consent of Mississippi is not necessary to give this
Court jurisdiction.
Here we have a point that has been raised in this Court
from the days of the argument in Chisholm v. Georgia,
2 Dall. 419, down through the decisions in Virginia v.
West Virginia, 220 U.S. 1; 238 U.S. 202; 241 U.S. 531.
That there has been a difference of opinion as to what the
Constitution should have provided there is no doubt.
The quotations from Madison, Marshall and others in the
debates in the Virginia Convention held prior to the
ratification of the Constitution have been urged time and
time again. Despite this fact, however, the Constitution
provides that the judicial power shall extend to controversies between a State and foreign States, and that the
Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction over such
controversies. The decisions of the Supreme Court fully
sustain the point that the word "controversies" includes
all disputes of a civil nature. The cases further sustain
the point that just as the States have given up the right
to coin money, the right to make treaties, the right to
enter into diplomatic relations, so they have given up the
right to be free from suits in the specific cases provided
for in the Constitution. See Louisiana v. Texas, 176 U.S.
1; Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U.S. 46.
That one of the States of the Union may be sued in the
Supreme Court by a foreign State was expressly laid down
as indisputable by both the prevailing aud the dissenting
opinions in Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 1 Pet. 1.
While it is true under the normal circumstances of
sovereignty that those who deal in the bonds and obligations of a sovereign State must rely altogether on the
sense of justice and good faith of the State, it is also true
that those who deal with States of the United States have
the further assurance granted by the Constitution and en-

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Mississippi.

292 U. S.

forceable by the Supreme Court of the United States that
a State of the United States will not pass legislation impairing the obligation of contracts made by it. This is so,
whether the attempted impairment is by an act of legislature or by constitutional amendment. New Orleans Gas
Light Co. v. Louisiana Light Co., 115 U.S. 650; Fisk v.
Police Jury, 116 U.S. 131. See also, Robertson v. Miller,
276 U.S. 174; Columbia Ry. v. South Carolina, 261 U.S.
236; Houston & Texas Central Ry. v. Texas, 177 U.S. 66.
It is difficult to find a more definite form of "impairment of contract" than the Mississippi repudiation.
Mr. J. A. Lauderdale, Assistant Attorney General of
Mississippi, and Mr. Greek L. Rice, Attorney General,
with whom Mr. W. W. Pierce, Assistant Attorney General,
was on the brief, for Mississippi.
Without consent the State can not be sued.
The compact of the States in the Constitution imposed
no duties and conferred no rights upon any foreign nation.
A sovereign can not be sued without his consent.
United States v. Diekelman, 92 U.S. 520, 524; Briscoe v.
Bank of Kentucky, 11 Pet. 257; Cohens v. Virginia, 6
Wheat. 264; Hamilton, The Federalist, No. 80; 3 Elliott's
Debates, pp. 533, 555, 556; Beers v. Arkansas, 20 How.
527; Clark v. Barnard, 108 U.S. 436; Bank of Washington v. Arkansas, 20 How. 530; Webster, opinion to Varning
Bros. & Co., Oct. 16, 1839, Vol. 6,'p. 537; Crouch v. Credit
Fancier, 8 Q.B. 374; Hamilton, Report 1795, Annals of
Congress, 1793-1795, 3d Cong., p. 1635; Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U.S. 1; Osborn v. Bank of U.S., 9 Wheat. 783;
Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203; Board of Liquidationv. McComb, 92 U.S. 53; United States v. Lee, 106 U.S. 196;
Virginia Coupon Cases, 114 U.S. 269; Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419, 741; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12
Pet. 657, 720; Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet. 515, 569; Mar-

MONACO v. MISSISSIPPI.
313

Opinion of the Court.

tin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 304, 524, 525; 1 Story's Com. on
the Constitution, c. III.
Even though the Eleventh Amendment had not been
adopted, the original clause in the Constitution extending judicial power of the Federal Government to controversies between the States of the. Union and foreign powers did not contemplate that a foreign government could
maintain an action such as this without the consent of
the State.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The Principality of Monaco asks leave to bring suit in
this Court against the State of Mississippi upon bonds
issued by the State and alleged to be the absolute property o the Principality.
The proposed declaration sets forth four causes of
action. Two counts axe upon bonds known as Mississippi
Planters' Bank Bonds, dated March 1, 1833, the first
count being upon eight bonds of $1,000 each, due March
1, 1861, and the second count upon two bonds of $1000
each, due March 1, 1866, all with interest at six per cent.
per annum. The remaining two counts are upon bonds
known as Mississippi Union Bank Bonds, the third count
being on twenty bonds of $2,000 each, dated June 7, 1838,
due February 5, 1850, and the fourth count upon twentyfive bonds of $2,000 each, dated June 6, 1838, due February 5, 1858, all with interest at five per cent. per annum.
In each count it was alleged that the bonds were transferred and delivered to the Principality at its legation in
Paris, France, on or about September 27, 1933, as an
absolute gift. Accompanying the declaration and made
a part of it is a letter of the donors, dated September 26,
1933, stating that the bonds had "been handed down
from their respective families who purchased them at

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

the time of their issue by the State of Mississippi "; that
the State had "long since defaulted on the principal and
interest of these bonds, the holders of which have waited
for some 90 years in the hope that the State would meet
its obligations and make payment "; that the donors had
been advised that there was no basis upon which they
could maintain a suit against Mississippi on the bonds,
but that "such a suit could only be maintained by a
foreign government or one of the United States "; and
that in these circumstances the donors were making an
unconditional gift of the bonds to the Principality to be
applied "to the causes of any of its charities, to the furtherance of its internal development or to the benefit of
its citizens in such manner as it may select."
The State of Mississippi, in its return to the rule to
show cause why leave should not be granted, raises the
following objections: (1) that the Principality of Monaco is not a "foreign State" within the meaning of § 2,
Article III, of the Constitution of the United States, and
is therefore not authorized to bring a suit against a State;
(2) that the State of Mississippi has not consented and
does not consent that she be sued by the Principality of
Monaco and that without such consent the State cannot
be sued; (3) that the Constitution by § 10, clause 3,
Article I, " forbids the State of Mississippi without the
consent of Congress to enter into any compact or agreement with the Principality of Monaco, and no compact,
agreement or contract has been entered into by the State
with the Principality"; (4) that the proposed litigation
is an attempt by the Principality "to evade the prohibitions of the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution
of.the United States "; (5) that the proposed declaration
does not state a controversy which is "justiciable under
the Constitution of the United States and cognizable
under the jurisdiction of this Court "; (6) that the alleged right of action "has long since been defeated and

MONACO v. MISSISSIPPI.
313

Opinion of the Court.

extinguished" by reason of the completion of the period
of limitation of action prescribed by the statutes of Mississippi; that the plaintiff and its predecessors in title
have been guilty of laches, and that the right of action, if
any, is now and for a long time has been stale.
The State contends that the holders of her bonds had
a statutory right to sue the State by virtue of the Act of
February 15, 1833 (Hutchinson's Code, 1798-1848, Chap.
54, Art. 11, § 1; State v. Johnson, 25 Miss. 625); that by
the operation of a constitutional amendment in 1856
abolishing the Superior Court of Chancery, and until the
adoption of the Code of 1871, the State had no statutory
provision authorizing suits against her (Whitney v. State,
52 Miss. 732); that the Code of 1871 (§ 1573) provided
that the State might be sued, and that-Code had no statute of limitations in respect to bonds or contracts under
seal; that a limitation of seven years as to actions upon
such obligations was imposed by the Act of April 19, 1873
(Laws of 1873, Chap. 26) and that the statute of limitations against the bonds in question began to run on that
date; that the right to sue the State conferred by the
Code of 1871 was taken away by the Code of 1880, which
became effective on November 1st of that year (Gulf
Export Co. v. State, 112 Miss. 452; 73 So. 281); that
meanwhile, in 1876, the Constitution of the State was
amended so as to provide that the State should not "assume, redeem, secure, or pay any indebtedness or pretended indebtedness claimed to be due by the State of
Mississippi, to any person, association or corporation
whatsoever, claiming the same as owners, holders or assignees of any bond or bonds, now generally known as
Union Bank Bonds, or Planters' Bank Bonds," that this
provision was incorporated in the Constitution of 1890
(§ 258), and that since its adoption no foreign State
could accept the bonds in question as a charitable donation in good faith.

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

In reply to these objections, the Principality asserts
that she is a foreign State recognized as such by the
Government of the United States; that the consent of
the'State of Mississippi is not necessary to give the Court
jurisdiction; that the obligation of. the State of Mississippi to pay her bonds is not an agreement or a compact
with a foreign power within § 10, Clause 3, Article I, of
the Constitution; that the action is not a subterfuge to
evade the Eleventh Amendment; that the cause of action is justiciable; that no statute of limitations has run
against the plaintiff or its predecessors, and that neither
has been guilty of laches. Upon the last-mentioned
points the Principality urges that, under the provisions
of the 'statutes of Mississippi, holders of her bonds never
had an enforceable remedy which could be said to be
barred by the running of any state statute of limitations,
and that the Principality will be prepared in the course of
the suit to meet the defense of laches by showing the
history of the efforts of the holders of the bonds to
procure payment.
These contentions have been presented in oral argument as well as upon briefs. We find it necessary to deal
with but one, that is, the question whether this Court
has jurisdiction to entertain a suit brought by a foreign
State against a State without her consent. That question, not hithereto determined; is now definitely presented.
The Principality relies upon -the provisions of § 2 of
Article III of the Constitution of the United States that
the judicial power shall extend to controversies "between
a State, or the Citizens thereof, and foreign States, Citizens or Subjects" (Clause one), and that in cases "in
which a State shall be Party" this Court shall have original jurisdiction (Clause two)'. The absence of qualification requiring the consent of the State in the case of a
suit by a foreign State is asserted to be controlling.
And the point is stressed that the Eleventh Amendment

MONACO v. MISSISSIPPI.
313

Opinion of the Court.

of the Constitution, providing that the judicial power
shall not be construed to extend to any suit against one of
the United States "by Citizens of another State, or by
Citizens or Subjects of any Foreign State," contains no
reference to a suit brought by a foreign State.
The argument drawn from the lack of an express
requirement of consent to be sued is inconclusive. Thus
there is no express provision that the United States may
not be sued in the absence of consent. Clause one of § 2
of Article III extends the judicial power" to Controversies
to which the United States shall be a Party." Literally,
this includes such controversies, whether the United States
be party plaintiff or defendant. Williams v. United States,
289 U.S. 553, 573. But by reason of the established doctrine of the immunity of the sovereign from suit except
upon consent, the provision of Clause one of § 2 of Article III does not authorize the maintenance of suits against
the United States. Williams v. United States, supra;
compare Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 411, 412; Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U.S. 373, 384, 386; Kansas v.
United States, 204 U.S. 331, 341, 342. And while Clause
two of § 2 of Article III gives this Court original jurisdiction in those cases in which "a State shall be Party," this
Court has no jurisdiction of a suit by a State against the
United States in the absence of consent, Kansas v. United
States, supra. Clause two merely distributes the jurisdiction conferred by Clause one, and deals with cases in which
resort may be had to the original jurisdiction of this Court
in the exercise of the judicial power as previously given.
Duhne v. New Jersey, 251 U.S. 311, 314.
Similarly, neither the literal sweep of the words of
Clause one of § 2 of Article III, nor the absence of restriction in the letter of the Eleventh Amendment, permits the
conclusion that in all controversies of the sort described
in Clause one, and omitted from the words of the Eleventh
Amendment, a State may be sued without her consent.

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

Thus Clause one specifically provides that the judicial
Power shall extend" to all Cases, in Law and Equity, arising under this Constitution, the Laws of the United States,
and Treaties made, or which shall be made, under their
Authority." But, although a case may arise under the
Constitution and laws of the United States, the judicial
power does not extend to it if the suit is sought to be
prosecuted against a State, without her consent, by one
of her own citizens. Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U.S. 1;
Duhne v. New Jersey, supra, p. 311. The requirement of
consent is necessarily implied. The State has the same
immunity in case of a suit brought by a corporation
created by Act of Congress. Smith v. Reeves, 178 U.S.
436. Yet in neither case is the suit within the express
prohibition of the Eleventh Amendment. Again, the
Eleventh Amendment mentions only suits "in law or
equity"; it does not refer to suits in admiralty. But this
Court has held that the Amendment does not "leave open
a suit against a State in the admiralty jurisdiction by
individuals, whether its own citizens or not." Ex Parte
State of New York, No. 1, 256 U.S. 490, 498.
Manifestly, we cannot rest with a mere literal application of the words of § 2 of Article III, or assume that the
letter of the Eleventh Amendment exhausts the restrictions upon suits against non-consenting States. Behind
the words of the constitutional provisions are postulates
which limit and control. There is the essential postulate
that the controversies, as contemplated, shall be found
to be of a justiciable character. There is also the postulate that States of the Union, still possessing attributes
of sovereignty,1 shall be immune from suits, without their
consent, save where there has been "a surrender of this
'See Briscoe v. Bank of Kentucky, 11 Pet. 257, 321; Darringtonv.
Bank of Alabama, 13 How. 12, 17; Beers v. Arkansas, 20 How. 527,
529; In re Ayers, 123 U.S. 443, 505.

MONACO v. MISSISSIPPI.
313'

Opinion of the Court.

immunity in the plan of the convention." The Federalist, No. 81. The question is whether the plan of the
Constitution involves the surrender of immunity when the
suit is brought against a State, without her consent, by a
foreign State..
The debates in the Constitutional Convention do not
disclose a discussion of this question. But Madison, in
the Virginia Convention, answering objections to the ratification of the Constitution, clearly stated his view as to
the purpose and effect of the provision conferring jurisdiction over controversies between States of the Union and
foreign States. That purpose was suitably to provide for
adjudication in such cases if consent should be given but
not otherwise.2 Madison said: "The next case provides
for disputes between a foreign state and one of our states,
should such a case ever arise; and between a citizen and
a foreign citizen or subject. I do not conceive that any
controversy can ever be decided, in these courts, between
'There is no question but that foreign States may sue private partiei in the federal courts. King of Spain v. Oliver, 2 Wash.C.C. 429;
The Sapphire, 11 Wall. 164. In the latter case the court said (pp.
167, 168): "Our own government has largely availed itself of the
like privilege to bring suits in the English courts in cases growing
out of our late civil war. Twelve or more of such suits are enumerated in the brief of the appellees, brought within the last five years
in the English law, chancery, and admiralty courts. There are
numerous cases in the English reports in which suits of foreign
sovereigns .have been sustained, though it is held that a sovereign
cannot be forced into court by suit." (Cases cited.) In Kingdom of
Roumania v. Guaranty Trust Co., 250 Fed. 341, the court held that
the bringing of an action by a foreign nation in a court of the United
States to recover a deposit placed to its credit in a bank was not
a waiver of its immunity as a sovereign from suit by other parties,
and hence that the court was without jurisdiction to permit the
defendant by interpleader to substitute as defendant another party
claiming a lien on the deposit as a creditor of the plaintiff. See, also,
Colombia v. Cauca Co., 190 U.S. 524; Ex parte Muir, 254 U.S. 522.

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

an American state and a foreign state, without the consent of the parties. If they consent, provision is here
made." 3 Elliot's Debates, 533.
Marshall, in the same Convention, expressed a similar
view. Replying to an objection as to the admissibility
of a suit by a foreign state, Marshall said: "He objects,
in the next place, to its jurisdiction in controversies between a state and a foreign state. Suppose, says he, in
such a suit, a foreign state is cast; will she be bound by
the decision? If a foreign state brought a suit against
the commonwealth of Virginia, would she not be barred
from the claim if the federal judiciary thought it unjust?
The previous consent of the parties is necessary; and, as
the federal judiciary will decide, each party will acquiesce." 3 Elliot's Debates, 557.8
Hamilton, in The Federalist, No. 81, made the following emphatic statement of the general principle of immunity: "It is inherent in the nature of sovereignty not
to be amenable to the suit of an individual without its
consent. This is the general sense and the general practice of mankind; and the exemption, as one of the attributes of sovereignty, is now enjoyed by the government of
every State in the Union. Unless, therefore, there is a
surrender of this immunity in the plan of the convention,
it will remain with the States, and the danger intimated
must be merely ideal. The circumstances which are necessary to produce an alienation of State sovereignty were
discussed in considering the article of taxation and need
not be repeated here. A recurrence to the principles
there established will satisfy us that there is no color to
pretend that the State governments would by the adoption of that plan be divested of the privilege of paying their
own debts in their own way, free from every constraint
but that which flows from the obligations of good faith.
ISee Story on the Constitution, § 1099; Willoughby on the Constitution (2d ed.), § 885.

MONACO v. MISSISSIPPI.
.313

Opinion of the Court.

The contracts between a nation and individuals are only
binding on the conscience of the sovereign, and have no
pretensions to a compulsive force. They confer no right
of action independent of the sovereign will. To what
purpose would it be to authorize suits against States for
the debts they owe? How could recoveries be enforced?
It is evident it could not be done without waging war
against the contracting State; and to ascribe to the federal courts by mere implication, and in destruction of a
pre-existing right of the State governments, a power
which would involve such a consequence would be altogether forced and unwarrantable."
It is true that, despite these cogent statements of the
views which prevailed when the Constitution was ratified, the Court held, in Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419,
over the vigorous dissent of Mr. Justice Iredell,' that a
State was liable to suit by a citizen of another State or
of a foreign country. But this decision created such a
shock of surprise that the Eleventh Amendment was at
once proposed and adopted. As the Amendment did not
in terms apply to a suit against a State by its own citizen, the Court had occasion, when that question was
presented in Hans v. Louisiana, supraz (a case alleged to
arise under the Constitution of the United States), to
give elaborate consideration to the application of the
general, principle of the immunity of States from suits
brought against them without their consent. Mr. Justice Bradley delivered the opinion of the Court and, in
view of the importance of the question, we quote at
length from that opinion to show the reasoning which
"For 'statements by Madison and Marshall in the Virginia Convention in relation to the non-suability of States by individuals, see

3 Elliot's Debates, 533, 555.
'For comment upon the force of this dissent, see Hans v. Louisiana,
134 U.S. 1, 12, 14; Williams v. United States, 289 U.S. 553, 574, 576,
577.

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

led to the decision that the suit could not be maintained.
The Court said (134 U.S. pp. 12,et .seq.): "Looking back
from our present standpoint at the decision in Chisholm
v. Georgia, we do not greatly wonder at the effect which
it had upon the country. Any such power as that of
authorizing the federal judiciary to entertain suits by
individuals against the States, had been expressly disclaimed, and even resented, by the great defenders of the
Constitution, whilst it was on its trial before the American people." After quoting the statements of Hamilton, Madison and Marshall, the Court continued: "It
seems to us that these views of those great advocates
and defenders of the Constitution were most sensible and
just; and they apply equally to the present case as to
that then under discussion. The letter is appealed to
now, as it was then, as a ground for sustaining a suit
brought by an individual against a State. The reason
against it is as strong in this case as it was in thAt. It
is an attempt to strain the Constitution and the law to
a construction never imagined or dreamed of. Can we
suppose that, when the Eleventh Amendment was
adopted, it was understood to be left open for citizens
of a State to sue their own state in the federal courts,
whilst the idea of suits by citizens of other states, or
of foreign states, was indignantly repelled? Suppose that
Congress, when proposing the Eleventh Amendment, had
appended to it a proviso that nothing therein contained
should prevent a State from being sued by its own citizens in cases arising under the Constitution or laws of
the United States: can we imagine that it would have
been adopted by the States? The supposition that it
would is almost an absurdity on its face.
"'The truth is, that the cognizance of suits and actions
unknown to the law, and forbidden by the law, was not
contemplated by the Constitution, when establishing the
judicial power of the United States. . . .

MONACO v. MISSISSIPPI.
313

327

Opinion of the Court.

"The suability of a State without its consent was a
thing unknown to the law. This has been so often laid
down and acknowledged by courts and jurists that it
is hardly necessary to be formally asserted. It was fully
shown by an exhaustive examination of the old law by
Mr. Justice Iredell in his opinion in Chisholm v. Georgia;
and it has been conceded in every case since, where the
question has, in any way, been presented, even in the
cases which have gone farthest in sustaining suits against
the officers or agents of States."
The Court then adverted to observations of Chief Justice Marshall in Cohens v. Virginia., 6 Wheat. 264, which
favored the argument of the plaintiff ih error, but as those
observations were unnecessary to the decision in the case
of Cohens, the-Court was of the opinion that they should
not "outweigh the important considerations referred to
which lead to a different conclusion."I
The same principle of immunity was reiterated and
applied by the Court, upon the authority of Hans v.
Louisiana, in Smith v. Reeves, supra, in deciding that
a federal corporation could not sue a State without her
consent, although, as we have seen, such a suit was not
listed in the specific prohibitions of the Eleventh Amendment.
In the case of South Dakota v. North Carolina, 192
U.S. 286, 318, the Court observed that the expression in
the opinion in Hans v. Louisiana of concurrence in the
views announced by Mr. Justice Iredell in his dissenting
opinion in Chisholm v. Georgia, could not be considered
as a judgment of the Court, in view of the point which
Hans v. Louisiana actually decided. But South Dakota
v. North Carolina did not disturb the ruling in Hans v.
Louisiana or the principle which that decision applied.
'See

Missouri v. Il/inois, 180 U.S. 208, 240; New Hampshire v.

Louisiana, 108 U.S. 76.

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

South Dakota v. North Carolinawas a suit by one State
against another State and did not present the question of
the maintenance either of a suit by individuals against a
State or by a foreign State against a State. As a suit by
one State against another State, it involved a distinct and
essential principle of the constitutional plan which provided means for the judicial settlement of controversies
between States of the Union, a principle which necessarily
operates regardless of the consent of the defendant State.
The reasoning of the Court in Hans v. Louisiana with
respect to the general principle of sovereign immunity
from suits was recently reviewed and approved in Williams v. United States, supra.
The question of that immunity, in the light of the
provisions of Clause one of § 2 of Article III of the Constitution, is thus presented in several distinct classes of
cases, that is, in those brought against a State (a) by
another State of the Union; (b) by the United States;
(c) by the citizens of another State or by the citizens or
subjects of a foreign State; (d) by citizens of the same
State or by federal corporations; and (e) by foreign
States. Each of these classes has its characteristic aspect,
from the standpoint of the effect, upon sovereign immunity from suits, which has been produced by the constitutional scheme.
. 1. The establishment of a permanent tribunal with
adequate authority to determine controversies between
the States, in place of an inadequate scheme of arbitration, was essential to the peace of the Union. The Federalist, No. 80; Story on the Constitution, § 1679. With
respect to such controversies, the States by the adoption
of the Constitution, acting "in their highest sovereign
capacity, in the convention of the people," waived their
exemption from judicial power. The jurisdiction of this
Court over the parties in such cases was thus established

MONACO v. MISSISSIPPI.
313

Opinion of the Court.

"by their own consent and delegated authority" as a
necessary feature of the formation of a more perfect
Union. Rhode Island v. Massachusetts,12 Pet. 657, 720;
Louisianav. Texas, 176 U.S. 1, 16, 17; Missouri v. Illinois,
180 U.S. 208, 240, 241; Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U.S. 125,
142, 144; 206 U.S. 46, 83, 85; Virginia v. West Virginia,
246 U.S. 565.
2. Upon a similar basis rests the jurisdiction of this
Court of a suit by the United States against a State, albeit
without the consent of the latter. While that jurisdiction
is not conferred by the Constitution in express words, it
is inherent in the constitutional plan. United States v.
North Carolina,136 U.S. 211; United States v. Texas, 143
U.S. 621, 644, 645; 162 U.S. 1, 90; United States v. Michigan, 190 U.S. 379, 396; Oklahoma v. Texas, 258 U.S. 574,
581; UnitedStates v. Minnesota,270 U.S. 181, 195. Without such a provision, as this Court said in United States v.
Texas, supra, "the permanence of the Union might be
endangered."
3. To suits against a State, without her consent, brought
by citizens of another State or by citizens or subjects of a
foreign State, the Eleventh Amendment erected an absolute bar. Superseding the decision in Chisholm v. Georgia,
supfa, the Amendment established in effective operation
the principle asserted by Madison, Hamilton, and Marshall in expounding the Constitution and advocating its
ratification. The "entire judicial power granted by the
Constitution" does not embrace authority to entertain
such suits in the absence of the State's consent. Ex parte
State of New York, No. 1, supra, p. 497; Missouri v.
Fiske, 290 U.S. 18, 25, 26.
4. Protected by the same fundamental principle, the
States, in the absence of consent, are immune from suits
brought against them by their own citizens or by federal
corporations, although. such suits are not within the ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

plicit prohibitions of the Eleventh Amendment. Hans v.
Louisiana,supra; Smith v. Reeves, supra; Duhne v. New
Jersey, supra;Ex parte State of New York, No. 1, supra.
5. We are of the opinion that the same principle applies to suits against a State by a foreign State. The
decision in Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, is not
opposed, as it rested upon the determination that the
Cherokee nation was not a "foreign State" in the sense
in which the term is used in the Constitution. The
question now before us necessarily remained an open one.
We think that Madison correctly interpreted Clause one
of § 2 of Article III of the Constitution as making provision for jurisdiction of a suit against a State by a foreign State in the event of the State's consent but not
otherwise. In such a case, the grounds of coercive jurisdiction which are present in suits to determine controversies between States of the Union, or in suits brought
by the United States against a State, are not present.
The foreign State lies outside the structure of the Union.
The waiver or consent, on the part of a State, which inheres in the acceptance of the constitutional plan, runs
to the other States who have likewise accepted that plan,
and to the United States as the sovereign which the Constitution creates. We perceive no ground upon which it
can be said that any waiver or consent by a State of
the Union has run in favor of a foreign State. As to
suits brought by a foreign State, we think that the States
of the Union retain the same immunity that they enjoy
with respect to suits by individuals whether citizens of
the United States or citizens or subjects of a foreign State.
The foreign State enjoys a similar sovereign immunity
and without her consent may not be sued by a State of
the, Union.
The question of the right of suit by a foreign State
against a State of the Union is not limited to cases of

MONACO v. MISSISSIPPI.
313,

331

Opinion of the Court.

alleged debts or of obligations issued by a State and
claimed to have been acquired by transfer. Controversies
between a State and a foreign State may involve international questions in relation to which the United States
has a sovereign prerogative. One of the most frequent
occasions for the exercise of the jurisdiction granted by
the Constitution over controversies between States of the
Union has been found in disputes over territorial boundaries. See Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, supra,p. 737.
Questions have also arisen with respect to the obstruction
of navigation, South Carolinav. Georgia, 93 U.S. 4; the
pollution of streams, Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U.S. 208;
200 U.S. 496; and the diversion of navigable waters, Wisconsin v. ,Illinois, 278 U.S. 367; 289 U.S. 395, 400. But
in the case of such a controversy with a foreign power, a
State has no prerogative of adjustment. No State can
enter "into any Treaty, Alliance, or Confederation" or,
without the consent of Congress, "into any Agreement or
Compact with a foreign Power." Const. Art. I, § 10.
The National Government, by virtue of its control of our
foreign relations is entitled to employ the 'resources of
diplomatic negotiations and to effect such an international
settlement as may be found to be appropriate, through
treaty, agreement of arbitration, or otherwise. It cannot
be supposed that it was the intention that a controversy
growing out of the action of a State, which involves a
matter of national concern and which is said to affect
injuriously the interests of a foreign State, or a dispute
arising from conflicting claims of a State of the Union
and a foreign State as to territorial boundaries, should
be taken out of the sphere of international negotiations
and adjustment through a resort by the foreign State to a
suit under the provisions of § 2 of Article III. In such a
case, the State has immunity from suit without her consent and the National Government is protected by the

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Counsel for Parties.

292 U.S.

provision prohibiting agreements between States and
foreign powers in the absence of the consent of the Congress. While, in this instance, the proposed suit does
not raise a question of national concern, the constitutional
provision which is said to confer jurisdiction should be
construed in the light of all its applications.
We conclude that the Principality of Monaco, with
respect to the right to maintain the proposed suit, is in no
better case than the donors of the bonds, and that the
application for leave to sue must be denied.
Rule discharged and leave denied.
EASTMAN KODAK CO. ET AL. v. GRAY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 709. Argued May 1, 1934.-Decided May 21, 1934.
A judgment of the District Court holding a patent invalid for want
of novelty and invention, in an action at law tried without a jury
pursuant to §§ 773 and 875, U.S.C., Title 28, is not reviewable in
the absence of any assignment of error based on the pleadings,
and where the bill of exceptions discloses no special findings or
request therefor nor any proposition of law presented and relied
upon during the progress of the trial. P. 336.
67 F. (2d) 190, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 291 U.S. 655, to review a judgment reversing a judgment in an action at law based upon alleged
infringement of a patent.

Mr. Dean S. Edmonds, with whom Messrs. William H.
Davis, George E. Middleton, and Allen Hunter White
were on'the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Thomas Raeburn White, with whom Mr. Leon
Edelson was on the brief, for respondent.

