CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.

FLORIDA

ET AL.

V. UNITED

STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 342.

Argued February 13, 1934.-Decided April 2, 1934.

I. By § 13 (4) of the Interstate Commerce Act, the Interstate Com-

merce Commission is empowered to increase intrastate rates under
which the intrastate traffic fails to contribute its fair share to the
revenue of the interstate carrier, and which thus cause an unjust
discrimination against interstate commerce. P. 4.
2. This power was not withdrawn or diminished by the changes made
in § 15a of that Act by the Emergency Railroad Transportation
Act of 1933. P 5.
3. Findings of the Commission preliminary to an order increasing
intrastate rates on lcgs in Florida to remove unjust discrimination
against interstate commerce with respect to the carrier's revenue,
held sufficient and in conformity with the principles laid down in
Florida v. United States, 282 U.S. 194. P. 8.
4. The evidence supported the findings. P. 13.
5. The authority of the Commission with respect to the removal of
discrimination against interstate commerce cau,-ed by inadequacy
of the intrastate rates of an interstate carrier, rests upon the
constitutional power of Congress, extending to such carriers as
instruments of interstate commerce, to require that these agencies
shall not be used in such manner as to cripple, retard, or destroy
that commerce, and provide for the execution of that power
through a subordinate body. P. 12.
6. In relation to such discrimination, as in other matters, when
the Commission exercises its authority upon due hearing, as pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.

2

Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

scribed, and without error. in the application of rules of law, its
findings of fact supported by substantial evidence are not subject
to review. It is not the province of the courts to substitute their
judgment for that of the Commission. P. 12.
4 F.Supp. 477, affirmed.

APPEALS from a decree of the District Court, of three
judges, sustaining an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission. There were originally three suits, against
the United States and the Interstate Commerce Commission, viz., a bill by the State of Florida and the Florida
Railroad Commission, another by Wilson Cypress Co. and
Wilson Lumber Co., and the third by F. S. Buffum & Co.,
Inc. The Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. intervened as a defendant. The several suits were consolidated below and
were heard and decided as one case.
Messrs. Theodore 7'. Turnbull, Henry P. Adair, and J.
V. Norman, with whom Mr. Cary D. Landis, Attorney
General of Florida, and Messrs. C. G. Ashby, August G.
Gutheim, and F. C. Hillyer were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. J. Stanley Payne, with whom Solicitor General
Biggs and Messrs. Elmer B. Collins, Harold 3M. Stephens,
and Daniel IV. Knowlton were on the brief, for the United
States and Interstate Commerce Commission, appellees.
Mr. Robert C. Alston, with whom Messrs. Carl H.
Davis, W. E. Kay, IVm. Hart Sibley, and Alfred P. Thorn
were on the briefs, for the Atlantic Coast Line R. Co.,
appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion o

the Court.
This appeal presents the question of the validity of
an order made by the Interstate Commerce Commission
on July 5, 1932, requiring the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company to desist from an unjust discrimination.

FLORIDA v. UNITED STATES.

3

Opinion of the Court.
found to exist in the relation of intrastate and interstate
rates and to maintain certain rates for the intrastate
transportation of logs, as described, within and throughout the State of Florida for distances of 170 miles or less.
186 I.C.C. 157; 190 I.C.C. 588. The order was sustained
by the District Court, three judges sitting. 4 F.Supp. 477.
By an order of August 2, 1928, the Commission prescribed interstate rates on logs on the lines of the Atlantic
Coast Line Railroad Company from points in northern
Florida to destinations in Georgia for distances not exceeding 170 miles. Finding that the Florida intrastate
rates on similar logs for similar hauls, generally described
as the Cummer scale, resulted in unjust discrimination,
the Commission also established rates for intrastate application within Florida which would correspond with the
rates fixed for interstate transportation. 146 I.C.C. 717.
The order in the latter respect was assailed and the decree
of the District Court sustaining it was reversed by this
Court. Floridav. United States, 282 U.S. 194. We decided that the order could not be upheld on the ground of
undue prejudice against persons and localities in interstate commerce, and that it could not be sustained on the
ground of unjust discrimination against interstate commerce from the standpoint of revenue losses due to intrastate rates as the order in that aspect was not supported
by appropriate findings.
Meanwhile, in February, 1929, both the interstate rates
and intrastate rates, as prescribed, had been put into effect. After the mandate of this Court, the Cummer scale
of intrastate rates was restored and became effective on
April 10, 1931. The Interstate Commerce Commission
reopened the proceedings and, after hearing, found that
the Cummer scale of intrastate rates caused unjust discrimination against interstate commerce from a revenue
standpoint. The Commission made no finding with respect to undue prejudice against persons and localities

OCTOBER TERM. 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

in interstate commerce. The Commission accordingly
entered the order of July 5, 1932, now under review.
While bills were pending in the District Court to enjoin
this order, the Commission granted a further hearing in
view of the representation that a number of southern
railroads had reduced their log rates, and on January
9, 1933, the Commission made an additional report which
affirmed the findings previously made and restored the
order of July 5, 1932, to be effective February 25, 1933.
190 I.C.C. p. 600. Supplemental bills were filed in the
District Court, and on February 24, 1933, the decree was
entered upholding the Commission's action.
The order of the Commission is attacked upon the
grounds (1) that under Emergency Railroad Transportation Act, 1933 (c. 91, 48 Stat. 211), the Commission was
without power to make the order; (2) that the findings
of the Commission are inadequate to sustain the order;
and (3) that if the findings can be deemed to be adequate,
they are not supported by the evidence.
First. The power of the Commission. By Transportation Act, 1920 (41 Stat. 484), the Congress granted specific authority to the Commission to remove discriminations against interstate commerce caused by intrastate
rates. The Congress amended § 13 of the Act to
Regulate Commerce so as to empower the Commission
to confer with state authorities" with respect to the relationship between rate structures and practices of carriers
subject to the jurisdiction of such State bodies and of the
Commission." § 13 (3). And, whenever in the course
of its authorized investigations, theCommission, after full
hearing, finds that any rate, regulation, or practice "made
or imposed by authority of any State" causes "any undue or unreasonable advantage, preference, or prejudice
as between persons or localities in intrastate commerce on
the one hand and interstate or foreign commerce on the
other hand, or any undue, unreasonable, or unjust discrim-

FLORIDA v. UNITED STATES.
1

Opinion of the Court.

ination against interstate or foreign commerce," the Commission is required to prescribe the rate thereafter to be
charged, or the regulation or practice thereafter to be
observed, in such manner as in its judgment will remove
the discrimination. The order of the Commission is to
bind the carriers, parties to the proceeding, "the law of
any State or the decision or order of any State authority
to the contrary notwithstanding." § 13 (4).
In Railroad Commission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, B. &
Q. R. Co., 257 U.S. 563, 585-587, we reached the conclusion that the provision of § 13 (4) for the removal of
"any undue, unreasonable, or unjust discrimination
against interstate commerce" was not to be regarded as
referring only to discrimination as between persons and
localities. We held that Transportation Act, 1920, imposed an affirmative duty on the Commission "to fix
rates and to take other important steps to maintain an
adequate railway service for the people of the United
States." Intrastate rates, we said, must play a most important part in maintaining such an adequate system. If
there was interference with the achievement of that purpose because of a disparity of intrastate rates as compared with interstate rates, the Commission was authorized to end that disparity. It was to be ended because
it constituted an "unjust discrimination against interstate commerce." We concluded that these words in § 13
(4) were not tautological, but had the necessary effect of
conferring authority upon the Commission to raise intrastate rates so that the intrastate traffic may produce its
fair share of the earnings required to meet maintenance
and operating costs and to yield a fair return on the value
of property devoted to the transportation service, both
interstate and intrastate. United States v. Louisiana,290
U.S. 70, 75.
Appellants insist that this result was reached because
of what was described as the "dovetail relation" between

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

§ 13 (4) and § 15a, and that the amendment of the latter
section by Emergency Railroad Transportation Act, 1933,
has effected a radical change. They contend that the
Commission no longer has authority to remove an unjust
discrimination against interstate commerce caused by a
disparity of intrastate rates viewed from a revenue standpoint. We are unable to accept that view. Section 13
(4) was not amended by Emergency Railroad Transportation Act, 1933. The authority conferred by § 13 (4)
to prescribe intrastate rates for the purpose of removing
an unjust discrimination against interstate commerce was
not withdrawn. The Congress had knowledge of the construction given to §.13 (4) by this Court and of the -important effect of that construction in relation to intrastate
rates found to be inadequate. The conclusion is not lightly
to be reached that the Congress would have undertaken to
change a policy of such great importance without explicit
language indicating that purpose.
The purpose of the changes in § 15a is not left in doubt.
They were made with the manifest object of eliminating
the provisions for the recapture of excess income of carriers and of revising the rule as to rate making.' The requirement imposed by Transportation Act, 1920, for the
adjustment of rates according to rate groups was abolished
and in substitution the Commission was directed to give
due consideration to the factors which are specified in the
section as amended. 2 Thus the Commission is to consider,
report of the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce
of the House of Representatives, H.R. No. 193, 73d Cong., 1st sess.,
pp. 28-30.
2
Section 15a in its amended form is as follows:
"Section 15a. (1) When used in this section, the term 'rates'
means rates, fares, and charges, and all classifications, regulations,
and practices relating thereto.
"(2) In the exercise of its power to prescribe -just and reasonable
rates the Commission shall give due consideration, among other factors, to the effect of rates on the movement of traffic; to. the need,
1 See

FLORIDA v. UNITED STATES

7

Opinion of the Court.

among other factors, " the effect of rates on the movement
of traffic"; "the need, in the public interest, of adequate
and efficient railway transportation service at the lowest
cost consistent with the furnishing of such service "; and
"the need of. revenues sufficient to enable the carriers,
under honest, economical, and efficient management, to
provide such service." '
Neither the elimination of the group method of rate
making, nor the substituted rule, suggests an intention to
impair the Commission's authority over intrastate rates
for the appropriate protection of interstate commerce.
On the contrary, the substituted rule of rate making by
in the public interest, of adequate and efficient railway -transportation
service at the lowest cost consistent with the furnishing of such
service; and to the need of revenues sufficient to enable the carriers,
under honest, economical, and efficient management, t6 provide such
service."
8
As to the substituted rule of rate making, the House Committee
said in its report: "The rule of rate making as rewritten in the proposed paragraph (2), found in section 205 of the bill, directed the
Copnission to give due consideration, among other factors, to the
effect of rates on the movement of traffic; to the need, in the public
interest, of adequate and efficient railway transportation service at
the lowest cost consistent with the furnishing of such service; and to
the need of revenues sufficient to enable the carriers, under honest,
economical, and efficient management, to provide such service. It is
difficult to conceive of a reasonable rate which would ignore any one
of these considerations. The Commission as a fair and impartial
body acting for the Congress will continue to give consideration to
these factors. In the case of the power given to the Commission to
prescribe just and reasonable rates the committee does not believe
that it is necessary to encumber the statutes with further language
which might be mandatory in terms, but which could add nothing
further to the plain duty of the Commission under the law, and
which might be interpreted to imply a distrust of the Commission in
prescribing just and reasonable rates. The Commission will and must
give consideration to all facts developed on the record and see to it
that the record is enlightening as to such factors as are mentioned in
the first section of this bill." H.R. No. 193, 73d Cong., 1st sess., p. 30.

OCTOBER TERM. 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

its express terms emphasizes the carriers' need of adequate revenues. The Congress had provided authority to
meet that need where inadequate intrastate rates caused
unjust discrimination against interstate commerce. The
Commissionhad exercised that authority. The Commission had not proposed the diminution of that authority.
The new Act discloses no intention to weaken national
control for essential national purposes over the railway
system of the country. It was rather designed to aid that
control in the light of the depressed economic condition
of the railways. We conclude that the new rule of rate
making left the power of the Commission under § 13 (4)
intact.
Second. The Commnission's findings. On the former
appeal we pointed out that if the action of the Commission was not simply for the removal of undue prejudice
against interstate commerce as between persons or localities, and the Commission undertook to prescribe a statewide level of intrastate rates in order to avoid an undue
burden, from a revenue standpoint, upon the interstate
carrier, there should be appropriate findings upon evidence to support an order directed to that end. We observed that in dealing with unjust discrimination as between persons and localities the question was one of the
relation of rates to each other; but that in considering the
authority of the Commission to enter the state field and to
change a scale of intrastate rates in the interest of the
carrier's revenue, the question was that of the relation of
rates to income. But to support the order then under
review, the Commission had made no findings as to the
revenue which had been derived by the carrier from the
traffic in question, or which could reasonably be expected
under the increased rates, or that the alteration of the
intrastate rates would produce, or was likely to produce,
additional income necessary to prevent an undue burden
upon the carrier's interstate revenues and to maintain an

FLORIDA v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

adequate transportation service. Floridav. United States,
supra, pp. 212, 214, 215.
On the new hearing, the Commission made comprehensive findings to supply what had thus been found to be
lacking. The findings set forth at length transportation
conditions, traffic and revenues. 186 I.C.C., pp. 160-189.
Appellants' criticisms proceed upon an unwarranted assumption. The requirement of essential findings as to
revenues did not demand an impracticable exactness.
Losses through inadequate rates could be shown satisfactorily even though proof of the precise extent of such
losses was not available. Reasonable determinations were
required and these were made.
Reviewing the history of the Cummer scale of intrastate rates on logs, and considering comparable interstate
and intrastate rates, the Commission found that the Cummer scale was abnormally low and less than reasonably
compensatory; that the defendants' revenue under the
Cummer scale was "insufficient under all the circumstances and conditions to cover the full cost of the service." Id., pp. 165, 187. The Commission was able to go
further. In considering the effect of the Cummer scale
upon interstate commerce, the Commission was aided by
evidence of actual operations during the period from February 8, 1929, to January 31, 1931, when the increased
intrastate rates prescribed by the former order were in
effect. The Commission, in its summary, found (id., pp.
188, 189):
"The record shows that during the period of approximately two years following the increase in the rates the
total movement amounted to 18,602 cars. This total included 3,740 cars transported to Eastport, Lacoochee and
Otter Creek in trainload movements that have ceased and
will not be resumed. Under normal economic conditions
it seems probable that the annual volume of the Florida
log movement under rates the same as those previously

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

prescribed will not be less than the average of this 2-year
period minus the number of cars included in the discontinued trainload movements. This average is 7,431 cars.
That the movement will not be less than this under normal conditions is confirmed by the fact during the five
months immediately preceding the last hearing in this
case, February to June, 1931, when conditions were abnormal, there were shipped over defendant's lines in Florida
a total of .2,765 cars of logs. This movement was at the
rate of 6,636 cars a year. We believe that the movement
of logs intrastate in Florida over defendant's lines will not
be materially curtailed under the rates which we here prescribe, which are the same or substantially the same as the
rates generally in effect and under which logs freely move
throughout the South.
"The freight charges collected on the 18,602 cars above
referred to aggregated $571,508.94, and if the Cummer
scale had applied the charges would have been $281,225.75. The freight charges collected on the 3,740 cars
referred to were $100,439.06, and if the Cummer scale had
applied they would have been $48,286.75. On the 14,862
cars remaining after deducting the 3,740 cars from the
total movement of 18,602, the freight charges collected
were $471,069.88 ($571,508.94 minus $100,439.06) and
if the Cummer scale had been applicable they would have
been $232,939 ($281,225.75 minus $48,286.75) or $238,130.88 less than those actually collected. Accordingly, on
the basis of an average of 7,431 cars a year under normal
economic conditions, which basis we believe conservative,
the gross revenues under the rates prescribed by the previous order herein would be more than $100,000 a year
greater than under the Cummer scale, now in effect. The
application of the Cummer scale, therefore, places a substantial burden upon defendant's interstate revenues. If
the revenues yielded by the Cummer scale are not sufficient to cover the cost of the service, as the cost evidence

FLORIDA v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

indicates, it would follow that part of the above-stated.
amount would constitute a dead loss in net revenue.
"We find that the circumstances and conditions surrounding the transportation of these logs intrastate in
Florida are not on the whole as favorable as the circumstances and conditions surrounding the interstate movement of logs over defendant's lines ...
" We further find that the intrastate rates on logs over
6 feet in length, except walnut, cherry, and cedar, applicable between points on the Atlantic Coast Line in Florida for distances of 170 miles and less are, and for the
future will be, unjustly discriminatory against interstate
commerce, and that such unjust discrimination can be and
should be removed by the establishment between all
points on the Atlantic Coast Line in Florida for distances
of 170 miles or less of rates not less than the rates shown
for such distances in Appendix F hereto, which. are the
rates found reasonable for interstate application from
northern Florida to Georgia."
On the second rehearing, with respect to changes made
by southern rail carriers in their log rates-which appeared to have been made largely for the purpose of
meeting truck competition-the Commission found that
in Florida the movement of logs had "not been shown
to,have gone to the trucks to any substantial extent where
the hauls are over 25 miles "; that "truck-competitive
rates for distances under 25 miles would regain little, if
any, traffic "; and that the maintenance of the Cummer
scale to meet what little truck competition could be met
in that way would greatly decrease the revenues of the
Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company and would not be
warranted. 190 I.C.C. p. 599.
We perceive no ground for the contention that the
Commission has failed to make the basic findings necessary to support its ultimate conclusion.

OCTOBER TERM. 1933.
-Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

Third. The evidence before the Commission. The
question of the weight of the evidence was for the Commis ion and not for the. court. The authority conferred
upon the Commission by § 13 (4) of the Interstate Commerce Act, with respect to intrastate rates, is not different
in its quality or effect from that given to the Commission
to prevent other sorts of unjust discrimination against
interstate commerce. That authority rests upon the constitutional power of the Congress, extending to interstate
carriers as instruments of interstate commerce, to require
that these agencies shall not be used in such manner as
to cripple, retard, or destroy that commerce, and to provide for the execution of that power through a subordinate body. Shreveport Case, 234 U.S. 342, 351, 354, 355;
Railroad Commission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, B. & Q.
R. Co., supra. The purpose for which the Commission was
created was to bring -into existence a body which, from its
special character, would be best fitted to determine, among
other things, whether upon the facts in a given case there
is an unjust discrimination against interstate commerce.
United States v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 235 U.S.
314, 320. That purpose unquestionably extended to the
prohibited discrimination produced -by intrastate -rates.
In relation to such a discrimination, as in other matters,
when the Commission exercises its authority .upon due
hearing, as prescribed, and without error in the application of rules of law, its findings of fact supported by substantial evidence are not subject to review. It is not the
province of the courts to substitute their judgment for
that of the Commission. Interstate Commerce Comm'n v.
Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 227 U.S. 88, 100; Western
Chemical Co. v. United States, 271 U.S. 268, 271; Virginian Railway Co. v. United States, 272 U.S. 658, 663;
Assigned Car Cases, 274 U.S. 564, 580; Merchants Warehouse Co. v. United States, 283 U.S. 501, 508; Crowell v.
Benson, 285.U.S. 22, 50,"51.

MISSOURI v. MISSOURI PAC. RY. CO.

13

Statement of the Case.

We agree with the conclusion of the District Court that
there was no lack of substantial evidence to support the
Commission's findings.
The Commission's determinations were "without
prejudice to the right of the authorities of the State of
Florida or of any other interested party to apply in the
proper manner for a modification of its (our) findings and
order as to any specified intrastate rate on the ground
that it is not related to interstate rates in such a way as
to contravene the provisions of the Interstate Commerce
Act." 190 I.C.C. p. 600.
Decree affirmed.
MISSOURI v. MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY CO.
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 824. Jurisdictional statement submitted February 28, 1934.Decided April 2, 1934.
1. Under the Act of February 13, 1925, this-Court can not entertain
a direct appeal from a decree of the District Court denying preference to a money claim of a State against a railway company in a
receivership proceeding. P. 15.
2. The provision of the Judiciary Act of 1891; § 5, for direct appeal
to this Court from the Circuit (later District) Court in cases
involving the Constitution was deleted by the Act of 1925; and
direct appeal in the cases of that class covered by Jud. Code, § 266,
as amended, lies only. where. hearing in the District Court was
before three judges, as provided in that section. P. 15.
Appeal dismissed.

The State in this case sought to support the appeal
upon the ground that enforcement of its claim was supplementary to a decree in an earlier case, directed by
this Court in the exercise of the jurisdiction by direct
appea1 then allowed by the Act of 1891.

