FAIRPORT R. CO. v. MEREDITH.
571

Syllabus.

March 20, 1933, and on which maturity of the insurance
contract had been determined by the Veterans' Administration prior to March 20, 1933, and where payments
could not be made because of the provisions of the Act
of March 20, 1933, or under the provisions of the Act
of June 16, 1933, may be adjudicated by the Veterans'
Administration and any person found entitled to yearly
renewable term insurance benefits claimed shall be paid
such benefits in accordance with and in the amounts proL
vided by such prior laws." "
The provision in the Act of June 16, 1933, which was
enacted before the entry of judgments by the district
courts, does not appear to have been considered by the
lower courts. The provision in the Act of March 27-28,
1934, was enacted after the filing in this Court of the
petitions for certiorari but before the writs were granted.
As neither of these Acts was referred to by the Solicitor
General or by counsel for the petitioners, we assume that
there is nothing in them, or in any action taken thereunder, which should affect the disposition of the cases
now before us. Any such matter also will be open for
consideration by the lower courts upon the remand.
Reversed.
FAIRPORT, PAINESVILLE & EASTERN RAILROAD CO. v. MEREDITH.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS, SEVENTH JUDICIAL
DISTRICT, OF OHIO.

No. 820.

Argued May 4, 7, 1934.--Decided June 4, 1934.

1. The requirement of the Safety Appliance Act that trams shall be
equipped with power brakes implies that such brakes shall be
maintained for use. P. 593.
'See

instructions issued April 11, 1934, by the Administrator of

Veterans' Affairs, pursuant to the Act of March 27-28.

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Petitioner.

292 U.S.

2. The.'title of an Act and the history leading up to its adoption,
ag aids to statutory construction, are to be resorted'to only for the
purpose of resolving doubts as to the meaning of the words used
in the Act in case of ambiguity. P. 594.
3. Power brakes are required by the Safety Appliance Act for the
safety not only of railway emplpyees and passengers on trains but
also of travelers on the highways at railway crossings. P. 594.
4. It fairly may be said that the nature of the duty imposed by a
statute and the benefits resulting from its performance usually
determiie what persons are entitled to invoke its protection. P. 596.
5. The Safety Appliance Act imposes absolute duties upon interstate
railway carriers and thereby creates correlative rights in favor
of such injured persons as come within its purview; but the right
to enforce the liability which arises' from the breach of duty is
derived from the principles of the common law. P. 598.
6. The doctrine of last clear chance amounts in effect to a qualification of the rule of contributory negligence, having the result of
relieving the injured person from the consequences of his violation
of that rule; and its. application in a grade-crossing case in a state
court on the assumption that the accident might have been avoided,
notwithstanding the contributory negligence, if power brakes had
been maintained as prescribed by the Federal Safety Appliance
Act, is a matter of local law. P. 598.
46 Oh. App. 457; 189 N.E. 10, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 291 U.S. 657, to review the affirmance of a
recovery from the Railroad in an action for personal
injuries suffered in a highway crossing accident. The
Supreme Court of Ohio refused to take up the case.
Messrs. Atlee Pomterene and Elbert F. Blakely, with
whom Messrs. Harry T. Nolan and Thomas M. Kirby
were on the brief, for petitioner.
No cases in the courts of. the United States have been
found where the provisions of the Safety Appliance Act
have been applied for the benefit of any person except
employees and travelers upon the railroad itself.
The purpose of the Act, as shown by the recommendations of President Harrison, which brought it about, and
by the title of the Act itself, was confined to employees
and travelers. Thornton's Federal Employers' Liability

FAIRPORT R. CO. v. MEREDITH.
589

Counsel for Respondent.

Act, § 227; Roberts, Federal Liability of Carriers, Vol. 2,
§ 718; Clay v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 210 S.W.
1072; Grand Rapids Ry. Co. v. United States, 249 Fed.
650; St. Louis & S. F. R. Co. v. Conarty, 238 U.S. 243,
250; Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Layton, 243 U.S. 617; Lang
v. New York Central R. Co., 255 U.S. 455; Davis v.
Wolfe, 263 U.S. 239, 241.
The violation of a statutory duty is the foundation of
an action in favor of such persons only as belong to the
class intended by the legislature to be protected by the
statute. Schell v. DuBois, 94 Oh. St. 93, 107; Hannan v.
Ehrlich, 102 Oh. St. 176; Pittsburgh Ry. Co. v. Bingham,
29 Oh. St. 364; Baltimore & 0. S. W. Ry. Co. v. Cox,
66 Oh. St. 276; St. Louis & S. F. R. Co.v. Conarty, 238
U.S. 243, 249; Lake Shore & M. S. Ry. Co. v. Harris, 13
Ohio -Cir. Dec. 400; C. A. & C. Ry. Co. v. Workman, 66
Oh. St. 509.
The holding upon the last clear chance doctrine based
upon the Federal Safety Appliance Act deprived the railroad company of its defense of contributory negligence
which was clearly established in this case.
The trial court ignored the fact that there was nothing
that the crew could do by way of connecting this air hose
after the dangerous position of plaintiff was discovered.
The doctrine of last clear chance does, not apply unless
danger is actually discovered. Pennsylvania R. Co. v.
Swartzel,17 F. (2d) 869; Cleveland Ry. Co. v. Masterson,
126 Oh. St. 42.
The error complained of is not cured by any claim that
the case might properly have been decided for the plaintiff upon an issue other than the application of the Safety
Appliance Act. St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co. v. McWhirter, 229 U.S. 265, 276; Cleveland Ry. Co. v. Masterson, 126 Oh. St. 42.
Mr. David F. Anderson for respondent.

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

292 U.S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent recovered judgment against petitioner upon
the verdict of a jury in an Ohio state court of first instance for a personal injury resulting from a collision at
a railroad-highway crossing between an automobile which
she was driving and a train of cars operated by petitioner
over its line of railroad. There is evidence that the train
approached the crossing without sounding the whistle
of the engine or ringing the bell so as to give warning
of the train's approach. There is also evidence which
fairly establishes that as respondent drew near the crossing the train was in plain view for a sufficient length
of time to have enabled respondent, by the use of ordinary
care, to' see the train, stop and avoid the collision, and,
therefore, that she was guilty of contributory negligence.
Miller v. Union Pacific R. Co., 290 U.S. 227, 231. The
train was equipped with air brakes, in conformity with
the federal Safety Appliance Act, as atnended, U.S.C.,
Title 45, c. 1, §§ 1 and 9,1 and the orders of the Interstate
'Section 1. It shall be unlawful for any common carrier engaged
in interstate commerce by railroad to use on its line any locomotive
engine in moving interstate traffic not equipped with a power drivingwheel brake and appliances for operating the train-brake system, or
to run any train in such traffic that has not a sufficient number of
cars in it so equipped with power or train brakes that the engineer
on the locomotive drawing such train can control its speed without
requiring brakemen to use the common hand brake for that purpose.
Section 9. Whenever, as provided in this chapter, any train is
operated with power or train brakes not less than 50 per centum
of the cars in such train shall have their brakes used and operated
by the engineer of the locomotive drawing such train; and all powerbraked cars in such train which are associated together with said 50
per centum shall have their brakes so used and operated; and, to
more fully carry into effect the objects of said chapter, the Interstate
Commerce Commission may, from time to time, after full hearing,
increase the minimum percentage of cars in any train required to be

FAIRPORT R. CO. v. MEREDITH.
589

Opinion of the Court.

Commerce Commission made thereunder; but the air was
disconnected between the cars and the engine, leaving
the brakes of the engine and tender as the only means of
stopping the train or checking its speed, thus constituting
a clear violation of the act, since the requirement that a
train shall be equipped with power brakes necessarily contemplates that they shall be maintained for use. See
United States v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 229 Fed. 927,
930.
The complaint alleges, as one ground of, negligence,
failure on the part of petitioner to make an air connection
between the engine and cars, and to maintain and use
the power brakes. In respect of that ground of negligence the trial court instructed the jury, in effect, that if
the violation of the federal act resulted proximately or
immediately in the injury complained of, the railroad
company was liable. But the jury was also told that if
respondent was guilty of contributory negligence she could
not recover notwithstanding the negligence of petitioner. The trial court also instructed the jury in respect
of the doctrine of the last clear chance-its view apparently being that, notwithstanding the contributory negligence of respondent, petitioner would be liable if, after
the danger to respondent became apparent, it could have
avoided the injury but for its antecedent failure to maintain and use an equipment of air brakes such as required
by the federal act.
The appellate court, in sustaining the judgment of the
trial court, held: (1) that the federal law violated by
petitioner was enacted not only for the protection of
railroad employes and passengers on railroad trains, but
operated with power or train brakes which must have their brakes
used and operated as aforesaid; and failure to comply with any such
requirement of the said Interstate Commerce Commission shall be
subject to the like penalty as failure to comply with any requirement
of this section.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

'292 U.S.

the public generally-that is to say, as applied to the
present case, that the requirement of the federal Safety
Appliance Act as to power-contriolled brakes and their use
imposed a duty upon the railroad company in respect of
travelers at railroad-highway crossings; and (2) that the
instructions of the trial court in respect of the doctrine
of the last clear chance correctly stated the law. 46
Ohio App. 457; 189 N.E. 10.
. These 'two rulings present the questions which the writ
brings here 'for' consideration.
First. The contention of petitioner is that the federal
Safety Appliance Act was intended only for the protection of employes and travelers upon the railroads, and has
no relation to the safety of travelers upon highways or of
the public generally. Very likely, the primary purpose
in the mind of Congress was to protect employes and passengers. So much is indicated by the title-"An act to
promote the safety of employes and travelers upon railroads" etc. And this is borne out by the history of the
legislation. President Harrison in his first annual message to Congress called attention to the need of legislation for the better protection of the lives and limbs of
those engaged in operating the interstate freight lines
of the country, and especially the yard men and brakemen, and expressed the view that Congress had power to
require uniformity in the construction of cars used in
interstate commerce and the use of approved safety
appliances upon them.
But we are asked to hold that the title expresses the
sole intent of the act, and this involves a question of
statutory construction. The title of an act and the history leading up to its adoption, as aids to statutory construction, are to be resorted to only for the purpose of
resolving doubts as to the meaning of the words used
in the act in case of ambiguity. Patterson v. Bark Eudora, 190 U.S. 169, 172; Cornell v. Coyne, 192 U.S. 418,

FAIRPORT R. CO. v. MEREDITH.
589

Opinion of the Court.

430; Lapina v. Williams, 232 U.S. 78, 92. Compare Russell Motor Car Co. v. United States, 261 U.S. 514, 519,
522. But here the words of §§ 1 and 9 of the act speak
plainly and nothing in the nature or operation of the
legislation requires, or suggests the necessity of, an appeal to extrinsic aids to determine their meaning. It
may be that the protective operation of §'2 of the act
requiring automatic couplers 2 was not meant to extend
to persons other than employes. Compare St. Louis &
S. F. R. Co. v. Conarty, 238 U.S. 243; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Layton, 243 U.S. 617, 620; Lang v. New
York Cent. R. Co., 255 U.S. 455; Davis v. Wolfe, 263 U.S.
239, 243; Philadelphia & R. Ry. Co. v. Eisenhart, 280
Fed. 271. But the installation and use of power brakes
required- by §§ 1 and 9 so obviously contribute to the
safety of the traveler at crossings that it is hardly probable that Congress could have contemplated their inapplicability to that situation.
Section 9, supra, provides that when a train is operated
with power or train brakes, not less than 50 per cent.
(under regulation of the Interstate Commerce Commission now 85 per cent.) of the cars in such train shall have
their brakes used and operated by the engineer of the
locomotive drawing the train. That a train so equipped
and operated can be brought to a stop much more quickly
than by the use of hand brakes is, of course, perfectly
clear; and it is reasonable to conclude that a result so
readily perceivable lies within the purview of the requirement. The most important purpose of a brake upon any
vehicle is to enable its operator to check its speed or stop
'Section 2. It shall be unlawful for any common carrier engaged in'
interstate commerce by railroad to haul or permit to be hauled or
used on its line any car used in moving interstate traffic not equipped
with couplers coupling automatically by impact, and which can be
uncoupled without the necessity of men going between the ends of the
cars.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

it more quickly than would otherwise be possible. The
old railway hand brake was principally for that purpose,
but it was undesirable for two reasons--first, because in
setting it the brakeman was exposed to danger, and second,
and especially in the case of long heavy trains, it did not
meet the necessity of stopping the train quickly in emergencies. In this second aspect, the common law duty of
the railway company to use ordinary care to provide and
keep in reasonably safe condition adequate brakes for the
control of its trains was one owing, among others, to travelers in the situation which the respondent here occupied
Sections 1 and 9 of the Safety Appliance Act converts
this qualified duty imposed by the common law into an
absolute duty, from the violation of which there arises
a liability for an injury resulting therefrom to any person falling within the terms and intent of the act. Compare Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Layton, supra, 620;
St. Louis, I. M, & S. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U.S. 281, 295.
To confine the beneficial effect of these provisions to
employes aild passengers would be to impute to Congress
an intention to ignore the equally important element
which their enactment actually contributes 'to the safety
of travelers at highway crossings. Since all of these three
classes of persons are within the mischief at which the
provisions are aimed, it is quite reasonable to interpret the
statute imposing the duty as including all of them.
It fairly may be said that the nature of the duty imposed by a statute and the benefits resulting from its
performance usually determine what persons are entitled
to invoke its protection. In Atchison,' T. & S. F. R. Co.
v. Reesman, 60 Fed. 370, where the railroad company
failed to erect and maintain sufficient fences, as required
by a state statute, in consequence of which an animal
got upon the track and derailed the train, it was held
than an employe upon the train who was injured was
entitled to recover* under the statute. In the opinion,

FAIRPORT R. CO. v. MEREDITH.
589

Opinion of the Court.

delivered by Mr. Justice Brewer (pp. 373-374), it is
said:
"At any rate, it is clear that the fact that certain classes
of persons were intended to be primarily protected by the.
discharge of a statutory duty will not necessarily prevent
others, neither named nor intended as primary beneficiaries, from maintaining an action to recover for injuries
caused by the violation of such legislative command. It
may well be said that, though primarily intended for the
benefit of one class, it was also intended for the protection of all who need such protection.-. . . The purpose
of fence laws, of this character, is not solely the protection of proprietors of adjoining fields. It is also to secure
safety to trains. That there should be no obstruction on
the track is a matter of the utmost importance to those
who are called upon to ride on railroad trains. Whether
that obstruction be a log placed by some wrongdoer, or
an animal straying on the track, the danger to the trains,
and those who are traveling thereon is the same. To prevent such obstruction being one of the purposes of the
statute, any one whose business calls him to be on a train
has a right to complain of the company, if it fails to
comply with this statutory duty."
See also Hayes v. Michigan Central R. Co., 111 U.S.
228, 239-240, and other authorities cited in the Reesman
case.
In the light of what has now been said, it follows that
the duty imposed upon petitioner by the provisions of the
act in respect of power-controlled brakes extends to and
includes travelers at railway~highway crossings..
Second. The holding of the court below as to the doctrine of the last clear chance is challenged as being contrary to the weight of American authority;' but we are
'See, for example, Illinois Cent. R. Co. v. Nelson, 173 Fed. 915;
St. Louis & S. F. R. Co. v. Summers, 173 Fed. 358; Smith v. Norfolk

598

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

precluded from considering the contention because it does
not present a federal question. The federal Safety Appliance Act, as we already have said and this court repeatedly
has ruled, imposes absolute duties upon interstate railway carriers and thereby creates correlative rights in
favor of such injured persons as come within its purview; but the right to enforce the liability. which arises
from the breach of duty is derived from the principles
of the common law. The act does not affect the defense
of contributory negligence, and, since the case comes here
from a state court, the validity of that defense must be
determined in accordance with applicable state law.
Moore v. C. & 0. Ry. Co., 291 U.S. 205, 214 et seq., and
cases cited; Gilvary v. Cuyahoga Valley Ry. Co., ante,
p. 57. And see Schlemmer v. Buffalo, R. & P. Ry. Co;,

205 U.S. 1, upon second appeal, 220 U.S. 590, 598. The
same is true of the doctrine of the last clear chance, which
likewise is not affected by the act. If doubt might otherwise exist in respect of the specific application of the
cases cited to that doctrine, regarded independently, the
doubt would vanish when consideration is given to the
relation which it bears to the rule of contributory negligence, namely, that it amounts in effect to a qualification
of that rule, Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 196

Fed. 878, 880, having the result of relieving the injured
person from the consequences of his violation of it.
Nothing we have said is to be understood as indicating
our acceptance, as a substantive principle, of the ruling
of the court below in respect of the point. That question-is left open for consideration and determination when,
if ever, it shall be so presented as to admit of its being
dealt with upon its merits.
Judgment affirmed.
& Southern R. Co.,114 N.C. 728, 734-735; 19 S.E. 863; Hays v.
Gainesville'StreetRy. Co., 70 Texas 602, 607; 8 S.W. 491. Contra;
Thompson v. Sait Lake Rapid Transit Co., 16 Utah 281, 292; 52
Pac. 92.

