398

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

292 U.S.

COLUMBUS GAS & FUEL CO. v. PUBLIC UTILITIES

COMMISSION OF OHIO

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 937. Argued May 1, 2, 1934.-Decided May 21, 1934.
1. In fixing the rates of a distributing gas company, a State is not
bound by the price at which that company purchases its gas supply
under a contract with an affiliated gas producing company, if it is
higher than a fair return to the seller. Dayton Power & Light Co.
v. Public Utilities Commission of Ohio, ante, p. 290. P. 400.
2. A State can not constitutionally confine a public utility to a return
of 6%% upon the value of its rapidly and inevitably wasting assets
while withholding from it the privilege of including a depreciation
allowance among its operating expenses. P. 404.
3. In finding the fair price for gas delivered by a producing company,
"delay" rentals, paid for keeping alive leases of gas lands held in
reserve, should not be charged to operating expenses, where sufficient depreciation allowance is made for replacement of operated
lands when exhausted. Dayton Power & Light Co. v. Public
Utilities Commission of Ohio, ante, p. 290. P. 406.
.4. In computing .thd rate base, the market or book value of gas lands
not presently in use need not be included unless the time for using
them is so near that they may be said to have the quality of
working capital. P. 406.
5. In allocating transmission property of a producing gas company,
in the process of finding a fair return for gas delivered at one of
many cities served by its unit system, it would be arbitrary to
employ a formula based on the mileage to the particular city
from an intermediate point where gas is compressed, remote from
the source of supply, and which took no account of other parts
of the unit system. P. 408.
6. Land and rights of way held rightly, omitted in measuring depreciation, no evidence of their location or present or prospective uses
having been presented. :Pp. 410-411.
7. Going value of affiliated gas companies, not separately appraised,
was, in this case, reflected in appraisal of the physical assets as
parts of an assembled whole. P. 411.
8. In rejecting the estimates of expert witnesses of going value of
affiliated gas supplying corporations, the state commission did not
exceed its discretion in the circumstances of this case. P. 412.

COLUMBUS GAS CO. v. COMM'N.
398

Opinion of the Court.

9. The rule de minimis is applicable to trivial differences between
opposing estimates 'of annual depreciation allowances, in deciding
upon the adequacy of a rate. P. 413.
10. Un.er the laws of Ohio, gas companies which sell and deliver
supplies of gas to affiliated distributors must serve them at reasonable rates. P. 414.
11. In so far as a reasonable rate of a public utility is something
other or higher than one not strictly confiscatory, the difference,
if an3t, is determined with finality by the appointed officers of the
StatQ, P. 414.
127 Ohio St. 109; 187 N.E. 7, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment sustaining an order fixing the
rates chargeable by the appellant gas company in Columbus, Ohio. The City of Columbus had intervened in
the proceedings before the Utilities Commission. The
City and company took cross-appeals from the order to
the court below. Cf. Dayton Power & Light Co. v. Public
Utilities Commission of Ohio, ante, p. 290. An earlier
appeal to this Court was dismissed because the judgment
was not final. 291 U.S. 651.

Mr. Edward C. Turner, with whom Mr. Albert M.
Calland was on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. John L. Davies and James W. Huffman for
appellees.
MR. JUsTIcE CARDOZO

delivered the opinion of -the

Court.
An ordinance of the City of Columbus, Ohio, approved
by the electors at a referendum vote, provides that for
five years from November 12, 1929, the price- to be
charged for natural gas shall be at the rate of 48 cents
per thousand cubic feet with a minimum charge of 75
cents-per month.
The appellant, the Columbus Gas & Fuel Company,
supplies gas to consumers in the City of Columbus, purchasing the gas from the Ohio Fuel Gas Company, an

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

affiliated corporation. Part of the gas so supplied is
produced by the Ohio Fuel Gas Company in its own gas
fields, part is bought by it from another affiliated corporation, the United Fuel Gas Company, and part from
independent producers. The three affiliated corporations,
i.e., the appellant, the Ohio, and the United, are subsidiaries of one parent company, the Columbia Gas &
Electric Corporation.
On December 31, 1929, the Columbus Gas & Fuel Company filed a complaint with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio in which it prayed that the rate prescribed
by the ordinance be declared to be inadequate and that
such other rate be substituted as might be found to be just
and reasonable. To dispose of that complaint there was
need of an. inquiry into the value of the complainant's
property and into its operating expenses, which in turn
necessitated an inquiry into the property and expenses
of its affiliated corporations. Until some time in 1929,
there had been a contract between the Columbus Company and the Ohio Fuel Gas Company whereby for gas
delivered at the city gateway Columbus was to pay to
Ohio 65% of the local retail rate, retaining 35% for itself as distributor. On the basis of a 48 cent retail rate,
the gate rate would thus have amounted to 31.2 cents, and
16.8 cents would have been the return to the distributor.
By consent, this agreement' was canceled in 1929, and
a gate rate of 45 cents was substituted. Most of this
voluminous record grows out of a controversy as to the
fairness of that charge. The Columbus Company and
the Ohio being parts of a single affiliated system, their
intercorporate agreement does not control the price to be
paid by consumers if the rate thereby established is
higher than a fair return. Dayton Power & Light Co. v.
Public UtilitiesComm'n of Ohio, ante, p. 290. The process
of ascertaining that return did not end with an inquiry
into the property and expenses of the affiliated seller.

COLUMBUS GAS CO. v. COMM'N.
398

Opinion of the Court.

It became necessary to examine the property and expenses of a second affiliated company, the United Fuel
Gas Company, which produces gas in West Virginia and
sells to the Ohio Company, delivery being made at the
Ohio River. The price charged for this gas, which was
afterwards mingled with the gas from other fields, is
known as the "river rate," and is so described in the
record. What was fairly due from Columbus for
gas delivered at the gateway is not susceptible of
ascertainment without tracing the supply to its sources
far away.
The Commission followed these inquiries -through all
their elusive ramifications. Its members were in agreement as to the value of the appellant's property to be
included in the base. They were also substantially in
agreement as to all the items of operating expenses with
the exception of the price to be paid to the affiliated seller.
If that item was laid aside, a rate of 16 cents plus per
thousand cubic feet would assure to the appellant the
enjoyment of a fair return. Division 'of opinion came in
estimating the price at the gateway and the river. As to
that item of expense a majority held the view that a fair
price to be paid to the affiliated seller was 39.02 cents per
thousand cubic feet, which, added to a rate of 16.02 cents
to be retained for distribution, would make the retail price
in Columbus 55.04 cents, or 7.02 cents in excess of the
rate established by the ordinance. A minority opinion
fixed the price at the gateway at 31.70 cents per thousand
cubic feet, and the total retail price at 47.95 cents. An
order was made, in accordance with the report of the majority, whereby the ordinance rate of 48 cents was declared to be inadequate, and a rate of 55 cents, with an
additional charge of 5 cents per thousand cubic feet if
monthly bills were not paid within a fixed time, and a
monthly minimum charge of 75 cents without discount,
became a substituted schedule.

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

Cross-appeals followed to the Supreme Court of Ohio.
The City of Columbus, which had intervened in the proceeding, appealed upon the ground that the ordinance
rate should have been upheld as adopted by the city and
approved by the electors. The Columbus Gas & Fuel
Company appealed upon the ground that the substituted
schedule was too low, and that nothing less than 69.59
cents per thousand cubic feet would yield a fair return.
United States Constitution, Amendment XIV. The Supreme Court of Ohio held in favor of the city, adopting
for the most part the conclusions of the minority commissioner, though going in. some respects beyond them. It
held that an adequate price at the gateway would be 31.70
cents or less. In arriving at that conclusion it set aside
the finding of the Commission that the operating expenses of the affiliated seller should include a yearly allowance of $4,158,954, to amortize the depletion of the
gas fields and appurtenant equipment. It held also that
the "river price" paid. by the Ohio Company to the
United, which had been fixed by the majority commissioners at 22 ,cents, was too high to the extent of 4.21
cents, thus reducing that item to 17.79 cents per thousand
cubic feet. Going farther, it held that all the members
of the Commission had erred in appraising the gas fields
known as class No. 1 1 at $25 an acre, and that the valuation of the leases should have been made on the basis
of book cost, excluding all leases acquired as a reserve
and not presently in use. Cf. Dayton Power & Light
Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n of Ohio, supra. It held
also that in fixing the price of gas delivered at the gateway there sh6uld have been an additional reduction that
would make appropriate allowance for the lower cost of
transmission to Columbus as compared with points more
distant, though the opinion does not furnish us with any
workable formula whereby to put the Vrecept into force.
'This classification is explained in Dayton Power & Light Co. v.
Public Utilities Comm'n of Ohio, supra.

COLUMBUS GAS CO. v. COMM'N.
398

Opinion of the Court.

As the upshot of the whole matter, the court arrived. at
the conclusion that the ordinance rate was valid, and remanded the proceeding. 127 Ohio St. 109; 187 N.E. 7.
There was an appeal to this court, which was dismissed
upon the ground that the order was not final. 291 US.
651. Thereupon the Supreme Court of Ohio amended its
decree by striking out the remand, and substituting a
direction that the rate be established in accordance with
the ordinance. Upon an appeal from the decree as thus
amended the cause is here again.
Many of the questions urged on this appeal have been
considered very recently by this court in disposing of an
appeal by an affiliated company. Dayton Power & Light
Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n of Ohio, ante, p. 290. In
so far as the cases overlap, we refer to that opinion without repetition of its reasoning. But along with many
features of identity there are important points of difference. The issue in the Dayton case was one as to the
right of the gas company to put into effect a new schedule higher than the rate level previously prevailing. The
issue in this case is one as to the right of the municipality
to establish a new schedule lower than any level accepted
by the company. All that the state court had to do in
order to uphold the determination in the Dayton case
was to reach the conclusion that adherence to the old
rates would not result in confiscation. What it said as to
the possibility of excluding an amortization allowance
and several other contested items did not determine the
result. "If the evidence would have been adequate to
uphold a lower rate, a fortiori it was adequate to uphold
the rate prescribed." Dayton Power & Light Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n of Ohio, supra. Here, on the other
hand, the decision of the state court reverses the determination of the Commission, and in so doing excludes important items, such as an amortization charge and others,
which had received allowance there. Not a little that
was put aside in the Dayton case as unrelated to the re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

sult must have consideration and decision now. To those
items we turn first, postponing for the moment what will
have to be said later as to items less contentious.
1. Amortization, depletion and unoperated leases.
We have seen in the Dayton case that in determining
the price to be paid for gas delivered at the gateway, the
Commission included among the operating expenses of
the affiliated seller an annual allowance of $4,158,954,
to amortize the value of leaseholds No. 1 (the only leaseholds then in use) and of the well-structures and equipment used in connection therewith, and thus provide a
fund that would restore the depleted capital when the
gas had been exhausted. The same allowance was made
here.
Upon the appeal by the City ofColumbus to the Supreme Court of Ohio the item thus allowed was excluded
altogether. The court did not deny that without the
creation of a fund to replenish wasting assets the affiliated
seller would be left with only a salvage value for leases,
wells and fittings after the exhaustion of the gas. It put
its judgment upon the ground that the statute of Ohio
defining the powers of the Commission and the method of
appraisal makes no provision for depletion (Ohio General
Code, §§'499-9 to 499-13), and that the statute, and
nothing else, gives the applicable rule. We may assume
in submission to the holding of that court that the amortization allowance must be rejected if the rate making
process is to conform to the rule prescribed by statute,
irrespective of any other. Tl~at assumption being made,
the conclusion does not follow that the statutory procedure may set at naught restrictions imposed upon the
states and upon all their governmental organs by -the
constitution of the nation.
To withhold from a public utility the privilege of including a depletion allowance among its operating expenses, while confining it to a return of 6/2t%upon the
value of its wasting assets, is to take its property away

COLUMBUS GAS CO. v. COMM'N.
398

Opinion of the Court.

from it without due process of law, at least where the
waste is inevitable and rapid. The Commission has
found that the life expectancy of the operated gas fields is
only three years and two months. If that holding is correct, the owner of the exhausted fields will find itself in a
brief time with wells and leases that are worthless and
with no opportunity in the interval to protect itself
against the impending danger of exhaustion. Plainly the
state must either surrender the power to limit the return
or else concede to the business a compensating privilege
to preserve its capital intact. Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U.S. 1, 13; cf. Helvering v. Falk, 291 U.S. 183.
There is nothing to the contrary of this in cases such as
Burnet v. Harmel, 287 U.S. 103, 107, 108; Stratton's Independence, Ltd. v. Howbert, 231 U.S. 399; and Goidfield
Consolidated Mines Co. v. Scott, 247 U.S. 126. The
profits of a mine may be treated as income rather than as
capital if the state chooses so to classify them and to tax
them on that basis. This is far from saying that in the
process of rate making depletion of the capital may be disregarded by the agencies of government in figuring the
interest returned on the investment. "Before coming to
the question of profit at all the company is entitled to
earn a sufficient sum annually to provide not only for
current repairs but for making good the depreciation and
replacing the parts of the property when they come to the
end of their life." Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co.,
supra; Lindheimer v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., ante,
p. 151. It is idle to argue that a company using up its
capital in the operations of the year will have received
the same return as one that at the end of the year has
its capital intact and interest besides.
We hold that a fair price for gas delivered at the gateway includes a reasonable allowance for the depletion
of the operated gas fields and the concomitant depreciation of the wells and their equipment. What that allowance shall be has not yet been considered by th~e

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

Supreme Court of Ohio, invested with jurisdiction to review the law and facts. Hocking Valley Ry. Co. v. Public
Utilities Com'n, 100 Ohio St. 321, 326; 126 N.E. 397.
The court will have to say in the light of all the circumstances whether the amount to be allowed shall be the
same as that fixed by the Commission ($4,158,954), or
something less or greater. It may disagree with the
Commission either as to the value of the fields or as to
the life expectancy of the supply of gas. There will be
power, we assume, to direct another hearing if the basis
for an intelligent judgment is lacking in the record.
When the allowance has been fixed and has been charged
to operating expenses, it will supply the answer to other
questions in controversy now. There will be no need,
when that is done, to include in operating expenses a
separate provision for the payment of "delay rentals"
upon leases in reserve. This is so for reasons that were
explained in the Dayton case. "Operating expenses are
magnified unduly if they cover both the fund and the
payments that are made out of it." Dayton Power &
Light Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n of Ohio, supra.
There will be no need. in the computation of the rate
base to include the market or the book value of fields not
presently in use, unless the time for using them is so
near that they may be said, at least by analogy, to have
the quality of working capital. The arrival of that time
cannot be known in advance through the application of
a formula, but. within the margin of a fair discretion
must be determined for every producer by the triers of
the facts in the light of all the circumstances.2 The burden is on the gas company to supply whatever testimony
'The state court will be in a position to determine the unoperated
acreage analogous to working capital when it has ascertained the life
expectancy of present sources of supply.
If there is a change in the allowance for annual depreciation, there
may be need for a corresponding change in accrued depreciation.

COLUMBUS GAS CO. v. COMM'N.
398

Opinion of the Court.

may be necessary to enable court or board to make the
requisite division. Leases bought with income, the proceeds of the sale of gas, and thus paid for in last analysis
through the contributions of consumers, ought not in
fairness to be capitalized until present or imminent need
for use as sources of supply shall have brought them into
the base upon which profits must be earned. To capitalize them sooner is to build the rate structure of the business upon assets held in idleness to abide the uses of the
future. At times the immediate purpose of buying up
extensive tracts is to forestall or stifle competition that
might bring the prices down. There is adequate compensation for investment so remotely beneficial when the cost
of renewing fields in present operation, and thus replenishing the capital, is paid out of gross earnings as an expense of operation, with a proportionate increase of the
prices to be charged for gas thereafter. Cf. Natural Gas
Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 95 W.Va. 557, 569, 570;
121 S.E. 716; United Fuel Gas Co. v. Public Service
Comm'n, 14 F. (2d) 209, 221; Erie City v. Public Service
Comm'n, 278 Pa. 512, 531;. 123 Atl. 471. Postponement
of other profit until the stage of imminent or present
use is not an act of confiscation, but a legitimate exercise of legislative judgment. Certainly that is so when
the amortization fund has been computed with reasonable liberality, and is large enough to make provision for
adequate reserves. If the company is not satisfied to
have the depletion allowance thus applied in renewal of
its life, it may divide the fund among the stockholders
and wind the business up. It cannot get its capital back
at the expense of the consuming public and also at the
same expense provide itself with a fresh supply to keep
the business going.
2. The River Rate.
We have seen that the Ohio Company when buying
gas from the United Company, an affiliated corporation,

408

OCTOBER TERM; 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

paid an agreed rate (261/2 cents per thousand cubic feet)
for delivery at the river.
A majority of the Ohio Commission, following in substance a decision of the Commission for West Virginia,
fixed the reasonable price for gas so delivered at 22 cents
per thousand cubic feet, and computed operating expenses
accordingly.
The West Virginia Commission with the approval of
the Supreme Court of that state (Charleston v. Public
Service Comm'n, 110 W.Va. 245; 159 S.E. 38) had permitted an annual depreciation allowance of 1..12% and a
depletion or amortization allowance of 4.15%.
The Supreme Court of Ohio struck out these allowances, thereby reducing the rate payable at the river from
22 cents to 17.79 cents. In so doing it adhered to the
ruling, announced elsewhere in the same opinion, that
under the statutes of Ohio amortization is not permissible
to replenish wasting assets. - For reasons already stated
these items should be restored with such modification in
amount as may be found to be appropriate upon. a survey
of the evidence.
The claim is made by the appellant that the river price
remains inadequate after adding the excluded items for
depreciation dnd depletion, and that the price should be
fixed in accordance with the contract. There is nothing
to show that the Supreme Court of Ohio held itself bound
by the determination of the West-Virginia Commission,
or failed to exercise an independent judgment upon the
evidence before it. The testimony and exhibits in West
Virginia had been read into the record. We must presume they were considered. Nothing now before us justifies a finding that they fail, with the exceptions already
noted, to sustain what has been done.
3. Allocation.
Upon the hearings before the Commission, the city
made the claim that in the appraisal of the property of

COLUMBUS GAS CO. v. COMM'N.
398

Opinion of the Court.

the Ohio Fuel Gas Company, the production property
should be allocated between Columbus and other municipalities upon the basis of the sales, but the transmission property should be allocated upon the basis of
mileage, multiplied by the peak demand at the place of
distribution. In opposition the appellant contended that
allocation on the basis of mileage was impracticable, and
so the Commission unanimously held.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Ohio, though
giving its approval to the principle -of mileage allocation
favored by the city, does not furnish us with any formula that would make the principle a working one when
applied to the Ohio system. If such a formula can be
discovered, it may reduce the price at the Columbus gateway by an amount as yet unknown. Enough for present
purposes that it is not discovered yet.
The formula proposed by the city, and, it seems, sanctioned by the court, would estimate the mileage by starting from a place described as the last point of major
compression, and thence proceeding to the town or cijty
where distribution is to be made. In its application to
the Ohio system, such a measurement of mileage is unrelated to realities. In the first place, the compressor,
wherever situated, is not the source of the supply. Gas
may have traveled hundreds of miles before the process
of compression starts. Conceivably these inequali~ies
might be corrected by the aid of some law of averages.
There has been no endeavor to correct them here. 'n
the second place, no one municipality is served by any
one compressor unaided by another. The system of
transmission maintained by the Ohio Company with its
38 compressors scattered through the state is organized
as a unit, and mileage from any single point would be
an arbitrary measure of the value of the property devoted to transmission without including in the reckoning
the mileage embraced in the system as a whole.

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S

Nothing to the contrary was held in Wabash Valley
Electric Co. v. Young, 287 U.S. 488, or in United Fuel
Gas Co. v. RailroadComm'n of Kentucky, 13 F. (2d) 510,
522. A municipality may be treated as the unit for determining the rates to be charged to its inhabitants.
Wabash Valley Electric Co. v. Young, supra. This does
not mean that allocation of values may be made by recourse to an arbitrary formula. The value of the property devoted to transmission may be measured upon the
basis of mileage multiplied by demand. United Fuel Gas
Co. v. Railroad Comm'n of Kentucky, supra, where the
experts are stated to have agreed upon the method of
division. This does not mean that a like basis will be
approved when mileage contributing to the supply is
omitted from the reckoning.
4. What has been said exhausts the points of difference
between the decree and the report.
Other objections have been urged in respect of other
points as to which the Commission and the court concurred. What has been said as to the points in respect
of which they. differed has brought us to the conclusion
that the rate as fixed by the ordinance must be supplemented by an allowance for amortization or depletion.
The appellant insists, however, that even this addition
will not serve, and that confiscation will result unless
there is an allowance of other items which the court and
the Commission have united in rejecting. Whether that
contention may be upheld is the question next before us.
Objection is made that the annual depreciation allowance ($667,612) for depreciable property other than wellstructures and equipment is less than is necessary to
maintain the property intact.
We considered this objection in the Dayton case and
overruled it. In this case, however, the appellant submits a computation which is intended to prove that in

COLUMBUS GAS CO. v. COMM'N.
398

Opinion of the Court.

measuring depreciation certain items of property, such
as land and rights of way, have been omitted altogether.
The record tells us nothing as to the location of this property or its present or prospective uses. Whether it has
relation to the operated fields or the fields to be opened
in the future there is nothing to inform us. Certainly
land and rights of way may not be characterized as wasting assets in the absence of explanation that would stamp
that quality upon them. In saying this we do not forget
that an abandonment of the business might bring about
a sharp reduction in the value of the plant, aside from
well-structures and equipment. There is nothing to
show, however, that any such abandonment is planned or
even reasonably probable. On the contrary, the course
of business makes it clear that when the fields in use shall
be exhausted, the business will extend to others, and this
for an indefinite future, or certainly a future not susceptible of accurate estimation. We find no reason for a
revision of our conclusion that the depreciation reserve
has not been proved to be inadequate.
Objection is made also as to the disallowance of a
going value for the affiliated companies. Going value
was excluded both by court and by Commission as an
item of property to be separately appraised and separately reported. The record justifies a holding that it
was reflected in the other items and particularly in the
appraisal of the physical assets as part of an assembled
whole. Cf. Hardin-Wyandot Lighting Co. v. Public
Utilities Comm'n, 118 Ohio St. 592, 603; 162 N.E. 262.3
This, we think, was adequate.
'Going value, of course, is not. to be confused with good will (Los
Angeles Gas & Electric Corp. v. Railroad Comm'n, 289 U.S. 287, 314),
and is not to be "read into every balance sheet as a perfunctory
addition." Dayton Power & Light Co. v. Public Utilities Comrm'n,
supra.

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

The going value of the Columbus property must have
been small, if not nominal, for the business, though
broader in its beginning, had been narrowed in the
course of years to one ofgdistribution only. Cf. Dayton
Power & Light Co. v. Public Utilities Corn i'n, supra.
The going value of the Ohio Fuel Gas Company was
placed by the appellant's witness at a figure so high
($12,000,000) as to be excessive almost on its face, and
the impression of exaggeration is confirmed when the
appraisal as a whole is resolved into its elements.
Thus, some of the appellant's experts have included
interest or return unearned during the business development period as a factor contributing to going value, one
witness placing this factor as high as $6,300,000. Their
method of computation was condemned by this court in
Galveston Electric Co. v. Galveston, 258 U.S. 388, 394,
in very similar conditions. No evidence was offered by
the appellant that expenses had been incurred " in overcoming initial difficulties incident to operation and in
securing patronage." Galveston Electric Co. v. Galveston, supra. On the contrary there is evidence as to the
business in Columbus that customers were clamoring for
an extension of the service, to such an extent that a
suit was begun for a mandatory injunction. The sales
by the Ohio Company and the United to the extent of
more than half in value were made to their own affiliates.
In such circumstances, the base value is not greater because of losses at. the beginning thanm it is where there is
no development cost because the success of the business
has been " instant and continuous." Galveston Electric
Co. v. Galveston, supra, p. 396.
Other experts, who reject the factor of interest unearned during the period of development, build their
estimates of going value upon the cost of attaching new
customers to the business, a cost not taken from the

COLUMBUS GAS CO. v. COMM'N.
398

Opinion of the Court.

books, but merely presumed or estimated at widely variant amounts. So far as such expenses had been actually
incurred by any affiliated company, they had already been
included as part of the cost of operation. So far as value
had been added above the moneys thus expended, there
was not even approximate precision in measuring its
amount. The burden of building up patronage may be
negligible where there is little competition with any other
producer or with other kinds of fuel. Charlestonv. Public Service Comm'n, supra.
Other experts, testifying to an aggregate, without assigning a proportion to the contributory factors, give estimates so vague as to be little more than guesses, one of
them, for illustration, holding to the opinion that ten
would be a fair percentage, yet unable to give a reason
why the amount should not be less or greater.
From the testimony as a whole one gains a definite
impression that the opinions are derived for the most part
from a professed experience and understanding of business conditions generally, and very little from any knowledge of the "history and circumstances of the particular
enterprise." Los Angeles Gas & Electric Corp. v. Railroad Comm'n, supra; cf. Houston v. Southwestern Bell
Tel. Co., 259 U.S. 318, 325.
We cannot find that the Commission and the court
went beyond the bounds of a legitimate discretion in putting aside these estimates as too uncertain to be followed.
Objection is made that there was an inadequate allowance ($68,196) for the annual depreciation of the
physical assets in Columbus.
The value of those assets, together with general overheads, as fixed by the Commission was $3,927,647. The
depreciation reserve at the end of 1929 was $1,166,762.30,
and at the end of 1930 $1,251,886.77. On the other hand
the accrued depreciation (which was taken at the con-

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

pany's own figures) was only $710,659 as compared with
a reproduction cost new of $4,638,326.
The Commission determined that in view of the large
reserve and the good condition of the plant, the allowance
asked for by the company ($174,880.24)' was too high,
and that $68,196 was adequate.
This is slightly less, it is true, than the amount ($88,695.03) suggested by a witness for the city, but the Commission was at liberty to form its own judgment. in any
event the rule of de minimis is applicable where the
difference is so trivial in its effect upon the rate. Dayton Power & Light Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n,
supra.
Other objections not covered by the opinion in the
Dayton case are concerned almost wholly with inferences
of fact as to which the concurrent conclusions of the court
and the Commission must be accepted as conclusive.
We have not been unmindful in what has been written
that the affiliated sellers (the Ohio and the United) are
not parties to this proceeding nor bound by our decree.
None the less, under the law of Ohio, they ,must serve
their affiliated buyers at reasonable rates. Ohio Mining
Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 106 Ohio St. 138, 146,
150; 140 N.E. 143. In so far as a reasonable rate is something other or higher than one not strictly confiscatory
(Banton v. Belt Line Ry. Corp., 268 U.S. 413, 423), the
difference, if any, is determined with finality by the appointed officers of the state. The only question for us in
these intercorporate relations is whether the rejection of
the contract as a measure of the appellant's operating
expenses was a wholly arbitrary act, and thus equivalent
in-its effect to an act of confiscation. Neither our judgment nor that of the state court operates directly upon
the contract by destroying its obligation. The measure

LEE v. BICKELL.
398

Syllabus.

of judicial power in the absence of the affiliated sellers is
the determination, of the expenses to be borne by the
consuming public.
There being error in the reduction of the appellant's
operating expenses by the refusal to make provision for
replenishing the wasting assets of its affiliated companies, the decree is reversed and the cause remanded
to the Supreme Court of Ohio for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE, MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER
concur in the result.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE SUTHER-

LAND took no part in the consideration or decision of this
case.

LEE, COMPTROLLER, v. BICKELL, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE 'DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE- NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 944.

Argued May 10, 1934.-Decided May 21, 1934.

1. Equity jurisdiction exists to enjoin numerous and repeated impositions of an unlawful tax for which redress at law would entail a
multiplicity of actions. P. 421.
2. In a suit in the federal court to enjoin the imposition of stamp
taxes on documents connected with the transactions in a broker's
office, the jurisdictional amount consists of the taxes claimed by
the taxing authority and resisted by the complainant. P. 421.
3. The tax imposed by Laws of Florida, 1931, c. 15,787, on memoranda of sales or deliveries of stock, relates to the memorandum in
prescribed form which must be executed by the seller in case of an
agreement to sell or where a transfer is executed by delivery of the
ceriificate assigned in blank-a memorandum to be handed by the
seller to the buyer as an evidence of the contract or as a muniment
of title. P. 421.

