210

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

292 U. S.

the interpleader, it was even more plainly so thereafter.
By the express terms of the decree the stakeholder was
discharged when the fund was paid into the registry, 38 F.
(2d) 212, with the result that there was no longer the
possibility of pursuing the garnishee anywhere and thus
perfecting the attachment. If some inchoate incumbrance
had existed until then, it was then obliterated forever.
The fund was free and clear.
The federal court in Texas was thus driven to a choice
between a claimant with a foreign attachment which by
the law of its creation was of no extraterritorial validity
till it had ripened into payment under the compulsion of
a judgment, and a claimant whose title to the fund was
undisputed unless the lien of the attachment was presently
effective. It is not easy to see how there could be any
choice but one.
The decree of the Court of Appeals should be reversed
and that of the District Court affirmed.
-The

QHIEF JUSTICE, MR.JUSTICE BRANDEIS,

JUSTICE STONE

and MR.

join in this dissent.

AVERY v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 791 and 792.

Argued April 5, 1934.-Decided April 30, 1934.

Where dividends were declared payable on or before December 31st,

but, pursuant to the invariable practice and the purpose of the
corporation, were paid by checks so transmitted that they did not
and could not reach the shareholders until the first business day in
January of the following calendar year, held:
1. That, within the intendment of ยง 213 (a) of the Revenue
Act of 1924, and like provisions of the Act of 1928, such dividends
were "received " in the calendar years in which the checks were
received. P. 214.

AVERY v. COMMISSIONER.
210

Opinion of the Court.

2. They were not on December 31st preceding "cash or other
property unqualifiedly made subject" to the shareholder's demands,
within the meaning of Treasury Regulations 65, Art. 1541. Id.
67 F. (2d) 310, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 291 U.S. 657, to review the affirmance of
an order of the Board of Tax Appeals, decision unreported, which sustained deficiency assessments of income
taxes.
Mr. Leland K. Neeves for petitioner.
Assistant Solicitor General MacLean, with whom Solicitor General Biggs, Assistant Attorney General Wideman,
and Messrs. Julius C. Martin,James W. Morris, and Morton K. Rothschild were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS
Court.

delivered the opinion of the

The petitioner was a large stockholder, and president,
of the United States Gypsum Company. In November,
1924, the Company declared a dividend payable on or
before the 31st day of December following. Its check,
dated December 31st, for the amount attributable to his
stock, payable to him, was received by petitioner January 2, 1925. In November, 1929, another dividend was
declared, payable on or before the following December
31st, and the Company's check for petitioner's portion was
received by him January 2, 1930.
Annually, dividend checks, signed by the proper corporate officers and dated December 31st, were on that day
mailed out to all stockholders except those who were
officers and employees, including the petitioner. Checks
for the latter were held in the treasurer's office until the
first business day of the next month and then distributed
through the office mail.
The Company declared dividends quarterly; and in
every instance they were made payable on or before the

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

last day of some month. The dividend checks never left
the treasurer's office or went to the mailing department
until the afternoon of the last day of the month. They
were mailed on the last day. of the month so as to be in
the stockholders' hands on the first business -day of the
following month. The practice was without exception
that no stockholder, whether employee or officer, should
receive his check before the- first business day of the
month following tie month in which the dividend was
made payable.
Petitioner kept his accounts on the cash receipts and
disbursements and calendar year basis.
The Commissioner assessed the dividends above described as part of the petitioner's income for the years 1924
and 1929. The Board of Tax Appeals approved; and the
court below affrmed this action. The facts are not in
dispute. The only question for our determination is when,
within intendment of the statutes, the dividends were
received" by petitioner.
He maintains that under the plain language of the
Revenue Acts of 1924 and 1928 the dividends--like other
assessable items-should be treated as income for the taxable years during which they were actually received-1925
and 1930. The Commissioner claims that under Treasury
Regulations promulgated in 1921 and in effect ever since,
the dividends constituted income for the years in which
they were declared and made payable.' The regulation
specially important here (No. 65, Art. 1541) follows:"Dividends. ...
A taxable distribution made by a
corporation to its shareholders shall be included in the
gross income of the distributees when the cash or other
property is unqualifiedly made subject to their demands."
1

See Treasury Regulations, No. 62 (1921), Arts. 53 and 1541;
No. 65 (1924), Arts. 52 and 1541; No. 69 (1926), Arts. 52 and 1541;
Nos. 74 and 77 (1928-32), Arts. 333 and 621.

AVERY v. COMMISSIONER.
210

Opinion of the Court.

The Revenue Act of 1924, c. 234, 43 Stat. 253, provides"Sec. 212. (b) The net income shall be computed upon
the basis of the taxpayer's annual accounting period (fiscal
year or calendar year, as the case may be) in accordance
with the method of accounting regularly employed in
keeping the books of such taxpayer; but if no such method
of accounting has been so employed, or if the method
employed does not clearly reflect the income, the computation shall be made in accordance with such method as in
the opinion of the Commissioner does clearly reflect the
income. If the taxpayer's annual accounting period is
other than a fiscal year as defined in section 200 or if the
taxpayer has no annual accounting period or does not keep
books, the net income shall be computed on the basis of
the calendar year.
"Sec. 213. For the purposes of this title, . . .
"(a) The term 'gross income' includes gains, profits,
and income. . . . The amount of all such items shall be
included in the gross income for the taxable year in which
received by the taxpayer, unless, under methods of
accounting permitted under subdivision (b) of section
212, any such amounts are to be property accounted f6r as
of a different period. ...
"Sec. 1001. The Commissioner, with the approval of
the Secretary, is authorized to prescribe all needful rules
and regulations for the enforcement of this Act."
Sections 41, 42 and 62. Revenue Act of 1928, c. 852, 45
Stat. 791, are substantially like corresponding ones quoted
from the 1924 Act. Similar provisions appear in the
Revenue Act of 1918 and all subsequent ones.
The Revenue Act of 1921, c. 136, 42. Stat. 227, 229, is
peculiar in that it makes distinction between dividends
and other income items by the following provision which
does not appear in subsequent Acts.
"Sec. 201. (e) For the purposes of this Act, a taxable
distribution made by a corporation to its shareholders or

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

members shall be included in the gross income of the distributees as of the date when the cash or other property is
unqualifiedly made subject to their demands."
If we give the words of the statutes their ordinary
meaning, clearly the dividends under consideration were
not actually received by the taxpayer during 1924 and
1929. Certainly, they -were not received when declared.
They did not come into the taxpayer's hands on December 31st simply because payable on that day. And unless Congress has definitely indicated an intention that the
words should be construed otherwise, we must apply them
according to their usual acceptation.
The petitioner insists that the word "receive" is free
from ambiguity and admits of no interpretation; the
statute furnishes the sole measure as to when dividends
are to be reported.
In behalf of the Commissioner it is saidThe Revenue Act directs that the amount of all such
(specified) items shall be included in the gross income for
the taxable year in which received by the taxpayer. The
word "received," as applied to dividends, is not entirely
clear since there are different times at which it reasonably
may be claimed the taxpayer receives them. To meet this
situaton the Commissioner promulgated the regulation
that dividends are taxable when unqualifiedly made subject to the stockholder's demand. This provision has
been included in all Treasury Regulations since 1918 and
has been approved and accepted by Congress through
subsequent re-enactments of the statute. When a dividend unqualifiedly becomes subject to a taxpayer's demand is essentially. a question of fact. Here, the Board
of Tax Appeals and the Circuit Court of Appeals agree
that the dividends were subject to the taxpayer's demand
on December 31st.
It is unnecessary for us to determine how far the quoted
Treasury Regulation was incorporated into the Acts of

AVERY v. COMMISSIONER.
210

Opinion of the Court.

1924 and 1928. If we assume that the Regulation, in
effect, became part of those enactments, nevertheless we
think the Commissioner's action was erroneous. In the
disclosed circumstances the dividends cannot properly
be considered as cash or other property unqualifiedly subject to the petitioner's demand on December 31st. It
was the practice of tht Company to pay all dividends by
checks not intended to reach stockholders until the first
business day of January; there is nothing to show that
petitioner could have obtained payment on December
31st, he did not expect this and the practice shows the
company had no intention to make actual payment on
that day. Nothing indicates that it recognized an unrestricted right of stockholders to demand payment except through checks sent out in the usual way. The
checks did not constitute payments prior to their actual
receipt. The mere promise or obligation of the corporation to pay on a given date was not enough to subject
to petitioner's unqualified demand "cash or other property "; and none of the parties understood that it was.
This subject has been considered with varying results
in Commissioner v. Bingham, 35 F. (2d) 503 (1929);
Hadley v. Commissioner, 59 App.D.C.. 139; 36 F. (2d)
543 (1929) ; Commissionerv. Adams, 54 F. (2d) '228, 230
(1931); Shearman v. Commissioner, 66 F (2d) 256
.(1933). The facts here disclose a situation substantially
like that in the Adams case; and we agree with the conclusion of the court therein, stated as follows: "We are also
of the opinion that, on the facts found, the dividends
were 'not unqualifiedly made subject to the demand of
the stockholder,' in the year 1924, if article 52 of the
Departmental Regulations can be said to be valid and
not in conflict with the express language of section
213 (a)."
Reversed.

