474

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

ILLINOIS COMMERCE COMMISSION
UNITED STATES ET AL.

ET AL. V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 787. Argued April 30, May 1, 1934.-Decided May 28, 1934.
1. Under § 13 (4) of the Interstate Commerce Act, the Interstate
Commerce Commission is given plenary power to remove the discrimination created by intrastate rates against interstate commerce,
by raising intrastate rates so that the intrastate traffic may produce
its fair share of the revenue required to meet maintenance and
operating costs and to yield a fair return on the value of property
devoted to the transportation service. P. 479.
2. In a hearing before the Interstate Commerce Commission to determine whether intrastate switching rates in the Chicago Switching
District should be increased to the level of interstate rates, in
order to do away with discrimination against interstate commerce,
the question whether a cost study used at an earlier hearing was
adequate and representative of conditions existing at the time of
the later hearing or should be refined and supplemented, was a
question of fact for the determination of the Commission, which
will not be disturbed when supported by evidence. P. 480.
3. Findings of the Interstate Commerce Commission supporting its
order for the raising of intrastate rates to the level of interstate
rates for switching in the Chicago Switching District, are to be
read in the light of traffic conditions in the District as disclosed in
the evidence before the Commission and described in its report.
P. 481.
4. Findings of the Interstate Commerce Commission showing that
the Chicago Switching District (situate part in Illinois and part in
Indiana) is essentially a unit, so far as switching movements are
concerned; that the interstate and intrastate traffic are commingled
and handled indiscriminately in the same manner, often in the
same trains and by the same crews; that the movements have no
relation to main line hauls, but are chiefly between local industries,
and involve a complete service originating and terminating within
the District; that transportation conditions throughout the District are substantially similar; that the established interstate scale
is reasonable and not shown to cause any undue preference or
advantage to persons or localities in intrastate or interstate corn-

ILLINOIS COMMERCE COMM'N v. U.S. 475
474

Statement of the Case.

merce; that the lower intrastate rates have resulted, and will result,
in unjust discrimination against interstate commerce; that they
caused loss of carrier revenue and that their increase to -he level
of the interstate rates will probably result in increase of such
revenues--held ample to support the Commission's order raising
the intrastate rates accordingly. P. 482.
5. Where the conditions under which interstate and intrastate traffic
move are fDund to be substantially the same with respect to all
factors bearing on the reasonableness of the rate, and the two
classes are shown to be intimately bound together, there is no
occasion to deal with the reasonableness of the intrastate rates
more specifically, or to separate intrastate and interstate costs
and revenues. P. 483.
6. The effect of maintaining an intrastate rate lower than the reasonable interstate rate is necessarily discriminatory wherever the two
classes of traffic, inextricably intermingled, are carried on, as in the
Chicago Switching District, under substantially the same conditions. P. 485.
7. There was evidence in support of the Commission's conclusion that
the area should be treated as a unit and a uniform blanket or
group rate applied within it rather than distance or zone rates.
P. 485.
8. An order, made applicable to all carriers in the Chicago Switching
District, directing that intrastate switching rates shall be maintained on a parity with the interstate rates "contemporaneously
applied by said carriers," interpreted in the light of the report,
applies to interstate carriers whose rails in the district are confined to one State and which for that reason have filed no interstate switching rate, and requires them to adopt the prescribed
intrastate rate. P. 486.
9. The rule that a carrier may not be required to remove discrimination against a locality unless it participates in both the prejudicial and preferential rates, is irrelevant to proceedings under § 13
(4) of the Interstate Commerce Act for removal of discrimination
agaiust interstate commerce caused by intrastate rates maintained
by state authority. P. 487.
Affirmed.

Appeal from a decree of the District Court, constituted
of three judges, which dismissed a bill brought against
the United States and 37 railroad corporations by two

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

rate-making commissions, of the States of Illinois and
Indiana respectively, and by other parties, to set aside
an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission. That
Commission intervened.
Messrs. Luther M. Walter and Herbert J. Campbell,
with whom Mr. Philip Lutz, Jr., Attorney General of
Indiana, and Messrs. Herbert J. Patrick, Deputy Attorney General, John S. Burchmore, and Nuel D. Belnap
were on the brief, for appellants.
. Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, with whom Solicitor General
Biggs, Assistant Attorney General Stephens, and Messrs.
Elmer B. Collins and Edward M. Reidy were on 'the
brief, for the United States and Interstate Commerce
Commission.
Mr. J. N. Davis, with whom Messrs. Harry I. Allen,
J. R. Barse, P. F. Gault, Walter McFarland,Elmer A.
Smith, and James Stillwell were on the brief, for the
Alton R. Co. et al., appellees.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of thb Court..

This is an appeal under the Urgent Deficiencies Act
of October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208,.219, 220, from a
decree of a District Court for Northern Illinois, three
judges sitting, which dismissed the complaint upon which
appellants sought to set aside an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
The order, made under § 13 (3) (4) of the Interstate
Commerce Act, directed the removal of unjust discrimination against interstate commerce, resulting from dis,parity of the intrastate and interstate switching rates of
interstate rail carriers in the Chicago Switching District,
lying partly in Illinois and partly in Indiana. It provided that the intrastate rate should be not less than the
interstate switching rates prescribed -in an earlier order

ILLINOIS COMMERCE COMM'N v; U..S. 477
474

Opinion of the Court.

of the Commission in Switching Rates in the Chicago
Switching District, 177 I.C.C. 669, of 30 per 100 lbs. for
one-line hauls, 3.50 for two-line hauls, and 40 for threeor-more-line hauls, of carloads of minimum weight of
60,000 lbs. The rates, both interstate and intrastate,
which were thus displaced were commodity rates of 2.50
per 100 lbs.-for one and two-line hauls, and 30 for threeor-more-line hauls. The rates are for district intrastate
switching movements, having no relation to main line
movements. They are chiefly between local industries,
involve a complete service originating and terminating
within the district, and embrace a loaded and empty car
movement and two complete terminal services.
The Commission, of its own motion, began the first proceeding in Switching Rates in the Chicago Switching District, supra, in which the carriers, interested shippers, and
,the state commissions of Illinois and Indiana were parties, and in the course of which extensive hearings were
conducted jointly by the Interstate Commerce Commission and the two state commissions. Pending this proceeding, the carriers were directed by the Interstate Commerce Commission to make a cost study of switching
movements in the District. This study, which involved
the preparation of statistics showing the longest, shortest
and average hauls within the District and detailed cost
data for selected periods in 1926-1927, was completed and
submitted to the Commission and was an important part
of the evidence on which it based its decision.
In its report and order, made July 31, 1931, the Commission found the rates which it prescribed for interstate
switching service to be reasonable for future application
on all commodities shipped within the District, except
railway equipment on its own wheels. It also stated that
a large percentage of the traffic was intrastate in character, but that the record did not disclose any difference

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

in the conditions surrounding the handling of the interstate and intrastate movements. It made no order with
respect to the intrastate traffic, but expressed the hope
that the two state commissions would bring the intrastate rates into harmony with the interstate rates whichit had prescribed.
The state commissions failed to prescribe a higher level
of intrastate rates, and the carriers of the District, shortly
after the new rates became effective, filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission a petition to establish an
increased rate for intrastate traffic, whereupon the Commission, on November 2, 1931, reopened the proceeding
for further hearing with respect to the relationship of
intrastate and interstate rates. A complaint filed with
the Commission by numerous shippers attacking the lawfulness of the interstate switching rates was assigned for
hearing with the proceeding already pending.
At the hearings, the state commissions in one proceeding and the shippers in the other offered evidence which,
by stipulation, was treated as received in both, to show
that the interstate switching rates were unreasonably
high, and in support of allegations that the cost study
made in the first proceeding was defective because of
changed conditions. The Commission consolidated the
two dockets in one report, and by its report and order of
July 3, 1933, 195 I.C.C. 89, assailed here, it dismissed the
complaint of the shippers with respect to the interstate
rates and placed the intrastate rates on the same basis as
the interstate rates already in effect. Before the hearings
were closed motions of the state commissions and shippers,
appellants here, that a further and more detailed cost
study be made, which it was contended would be more
representative of the traffic, and which would reflect conditions in 1932, five years after the period selected for
study, were denied. The same questions were raised by
motions to reopen the proceedings in the.two dockets, or

ILLINOIS COMMERCE COMM'N v. U.S. 479
474

Opinion of the Court.

for reargument, to reconsider the cost study, which were
also denied.
In tho District Court below the case was submitted
upon the pleadings, the two reports and orders of the
Commission, and certified copies of the evidence and
exhibits before the Commission in the second proceeding.
The court dismissed the complaint upon findings of fact
and law, rejecting the several contentions which appellants make before us.
The scope and application of § 13 (4) have so recently
been fully considered in opinions of this Court in United
States v. Louisiana,290 U.S. 70; Floridav. United States,
ante, p. 1; see also Georgia Public Service Commn. v.
United States, 283 U.S. 765; Florida v. United States,
282 U.S. 194; that it is unnecessary to repeat that discussion here. Under § 13 (4) of the Interstate Commerce
Act, the Interstate Commerce Commission is given plenary power to remove the discrimination created by intrastate rates against interstate commerce, by raising intrastate rates so that the intrastate traffic may produce its
fair share of the revenue required to meet maintenance
and operating costs and to yield a fair return on the value
of property devoted to the transportation service. The
question for decision is whether the order of the Commission directing the removal of the discrimination is
supported by the findings, based upon substantial evidence.
The numerous objections to the order are grounded
for the most part on an elaborate analysis and discussion
of the evidence. All have received our attention, but so
far as they require our discussion they may be summarized as follows: (1) The order of the Commission is void
because of its abuse of discretion in denying the motions
for an order requiring that the original cost study be
supplemented by a further and more detailed study
which would reflect conditions in 1932 and in denying

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

the petition for reopening the proceedings or reargument
for reconsideration of the effect' to be given the cost
study. (2) The order is not supported by the .findings.
(3) Certain essential findings are not supported by evidence. (4) The order is too indefinite to be applied.
1. The alleged abuse of discretion by the Commission
is not that it refused to consider the contention of appellants as to the sufficiency of the cost study in the
light of the facts relied upon, see Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry.
Co. v. United States, 284 U.S. 248, but that it decided
these contentions wrongly. There can be no serious
doubt that the cost study faithfully represented conditions obtaining during the periods in 1926-1927 selected
for study. It was characterized by the Commission as
"perhaps more exhaustive" than any previously undertaken in proceedings involving switching charges. To
the seven carriers of the thirty-five serving the District,
originally chosen for study during selected. periods, eight
others were added on the initiative of the Commission. A
request of certain of the appellants that the Chicago
Junction Railway be included in the study was denied,
the Commission pointing out in both reports that because
of the short hauls on this line it did not regard the traffic
as representative. Appellants urge specifically that if all
the lines in the District were not to be included, this line
should have been, in order to make the study fairly repre-sentative; but the Commission considered the issue of
fact so raised and decided to the contrary.
The principal contention is that conditions since 1927
had so changed that a new study should have been made.
The changes emphasized are (1) falling off in volume of
traffic; (2) improvement of highways in the District resulting in diversion of traffic from the rail lines for movement
by truck; (3) the decline in value of many of the articles
transported; (4) reduction in wages and cost of supplies;
and (5) curtailment of the amount of service rendered by

ILLINOIS COMMERCE COMM'N v. U.S. 481
474

Opinion of the Court.

carriers to industries within the District. In considering
these changes on the basis of the data already in the
record, the Commission pointed out that they had resulted in increased unit costs because unaccompanied by
a corresponding or proportionate decrease in operating
expense. It also concluded, upon the basis of data
before it, that in view of the improvement of highways
and trucking facilities and other changes in conditions
affecting traffic the Commission could not, even though
it were its duty to do so, provide a rate which would
enable the railroads to compete successfully with trucking movements, by which the traffic had been diverted.
The Commission decided that, on the record before it,
it was able to consider the effect of the factors suggested
by appellants and that a new cost study was unnecessary.
Whether or not the cost study was representative,
whether the study should have been more refined, and
whether it should have been supplemented as appellants
desired, are questions of fact, the determination of which
is within the competence of the Commission. The Commission reached its conclusion after full hearing and
thorough consideration of all questions presented. As the
record affords a sufficient basis for the Commission's determination, it is not subject to review in the courts.
See Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States, 246 U.S.
457, 481; Assigned Car Cases, 274 U.S. 564, 580.
2. The Commission's findings are to be read in the light
of traffic conditions, fully disclosed in the evidence and
described in the Commission's report. The Chic .go
Switching District comprises an area of more than 600
square miles, served by thirty-five railroads, which maintain there more than 5,000 miles of track, serving 4,000
private industries. The District is essentially a unit, so
far as switching movements are concerned. Interstate
and intrastate traffic are commingled in switching movements and handled in the same manner indiscriminately,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

often in the same trains and by the same crews. As already noted, the movements have no relation to main line
hauls, are chiefly between local industries, involve a complete service originating and terminating within the District, a loaded and empty car movement, and two complete terminal services.
In the original proceeding, no party took the position
that a rate should apply on intrastate traffic within the
District different from that applied to interstate traffic,
the only substantial issue being whether the rates finally
adopted and applied to interstate traffic were too high.
In the second proceeding, after considering and stating
at. length the evidence showing the effect upon interstate
commerce of the lower rates prevailing upon intrastate
traffic of the same general character, and the probable
effect in an increased return to the carriers if the intrastate rate were raised to the interstate level, the Commission found- that the transportation conditions throughout
the Chicago Switching District are substantially similar;
that they are no more -favorable to interstate movements
than to intrastate movements within the District; that
the established interstate scale of rates was reasonableand not shown, when applied intrastate, to have or cause
any undue preference and advantage to the persons or
localities in intrastate commerce, or any undue preference
and advantage to persons and localities in interstate commerce; that the lower intrastate, rates had resulted and
would for the future result in unjust discrimination
against interstate commerce. The report dealt at length
with the evidence showing probable increase in revenue
which would result if the intrastate rates were raised to
the interstate level; comparisons based on the recorded
traffic in 1926 and in November, 1931, and January, 1932,
indicated a loss of revenue by the maintenance of the
lower intrastate rate in excess of $1,000,000. These findings, which are supported by detailed subsidiary findings

ILLINOIS COMMERCE COMM'N v. U.S. 483
474

Opinion of the Court.

in the report, are ample to support the order. Floridav.
United States, ante, p. 1., They disclose no such defects
as were found in Floridav. United States, 282 U.S. 194,
or urged in United States v. Louisiana,supra.
Specific objections to the sufficiency of the findings, so
far as they are not already disposed of by what has been
said, are that there is no finding that the intrastate xates,
before the increase, were less than maximum reasonable
rates, and there was no finding which separated interstate and intrastate property, revenues and expenses of
the carriers so as to make it possible to compare revenues
with cost for the two classes of traffic considered separately. But these objections, and others which we need
not stop to consider in detail, leave out of account the
nature of the traffic and the significance of the principal
and subsidiary findings showing that the conditions
throughout the District were substantially the same for
both classes of traffic, which were handled in the same
manner. The inquiry in both proceedings was directed
to the commerce' of the District as a unit. The decision
in the first proceeding, that the increase in interstate
rates was reasonable, was made in the hope that the state
commissions would. bring intrastate rates into harmony.
When they failed to do so, the Commission reaffirmed its
finding that the new interstate rates were reasonable and
found that the intrastate rates must be raised in order
that the. intrastate traffic may bear its fair share of the
revenue burden. It is plain from the nature of the inquiry that the rate level, to which both classes of traffic
were raised, was found reasonable on the basis of the
traffic as a whole. Where the conditions under which
interstate and intrastate traffic move are found to be
substantially the same with respect to all factors bearing
on the reasonableness of the rate, and the two classes
are shown to be intimately bound together, there is no
occasion to deal with the reasonableness of the intrastate

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

rates more specifically, or to separate intrastate and interstate costs and revenues. Compare American Express
Co. v. Caldwell, 244 U.S. 617; United States v. Louisiana,
supra;Floridav. United States, ante, p. 1.
3. Appellants contend there is no evidence in the
record to support the Commission's findings that the prescribed interstate rate was reasonable or that after the
increase in that rate the old intrastate rate unjustly discriminated against interstate commerce. Appellants
reach their conclusion as to the reasonableness of the
interstate rate by disregarding the cost study as evidence
because, as is contended, it was erroneously considered
by the Commission. But as we have already said it was
for the.Commission to determine whether the cost study
was adequate or whether it was necessary to refine or
supplement it in order to make it dependable evidence
for the purpose of rate making. The study itself afforded
evidence of the reasonableness of the rate fixed, and upon
the whole record there was abundant support for the
Commission's finding, which was carefully and thoroughly
considered in its report. There is no basis upon which
the courts, not authorized to weigh evidence, could re~xamine or disregard its conclusion.
The increased intrastate rate applied to grain, to which
specific objection is made, does not stand on a different
footing. This objection is also predicated upon the mistaken assumption that the Commission should have disregarded the cost study and traffic analysis as evidence.
It is true that the rates on grain were not included in the
all-commodity rate prevailing in the District before the
first proceeding was initiated, and were not uniform
throughout the District, but the proceeding was reopened
by the Commission to investigate the lawfulness of "all
rates and charges . . . of all carload traffic" interstate,
and their relationship to like rates and charges intrastate.

ILLINOIS COMMERCE COMM'N v. U.S. 485
474

Opinion of the Court.

It acted upon a record showing that the grain moved
intra-District, under the same conditions as other commodities, and the Commission had before it evidence
showing that the cost of the traffic largely exceeded the
revenue derived from the old rates and that a rate on a
distance or zoning basis was impracticable.
Similarly, the finding of unjust discrimination against
interstate commerce made in the second report rests upon
evidence. The effect of maintaining a lower rate, intrastate, than the reasonable interstate rate is necessarily
discriminatory wherever the two classes of traffic, inextricably intermingled, are carried on, as in the District,
under substantially the same conditions. Compare
United States v. Louisiana, supra. Moreover, it appeared
that many of the railroads cannot move traffic between
points of origin and destination in Indiana and between
points of origin and destination in Illinois without crossing the state line, and thus subjecting the shippers to the
interstate rate; that some of the industries are located on
both sides of the state line and that some of the assembling yards and interchange tracks overlap state lines.
On the other hand, many industries, in preference to a
more direct interstate route, resort to intrastate routes
to obtain lower rates, although they are so-called "unnatural" routes, against the flow of traffic, and therefore
entail additional expense in handling. Evidence to show
the extent of the burden upon the carriers' revenues, and
the diversion of traffic from interstate to "unnatural"
intrastate movements, is found both in the testimony of
the carrier vitnesses and in exhibits of record.
Appellants recur to their criticism of the cost study
and insist that in view of differences between average
lengths of haul in intrastate and in interstate movements, costs and revenues intrastate and interstate should
have been segregated. But this objection is directed not
only to the conclusion of the Commission, already con-

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

sidered, that the cost study was representative and dependable evidence, but is based upon the assumption that
the Commission should disregard the long history of rates
in the Switching District, in the course of which a commodity rate, generally applicable without regard to distance, had been built up through the District, and that
upon a review of the evidence we are free to reject the
Commission's conclusion that a distance or zone rate
should not apply. Upon this subject there was substantial evidence supporting the reasonableness of uniform
commodity rates in preference to a distance or zone rate.
So far as this objection is of any force it goes only to the
weight of the evidence and not to the want of it. Treating an area as a unit and applying a uniform blanket or
group rate within it, as is the common practice with respect to switching rates, is within the competence of the
Commission. See St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v.
United States, 245 U.S. 136, 138, Note 1, 141; United
States v. Illinois Central R. Co., 263 U.S. 515, 518, Note
1; Virginian Ry. Co. v. United States, 272 U.S. 658, 660,
664.
4. Appellants contend that the order cannot be applied to certain carriers whose rails extend onlk into the
Illinois section of the District. As in terms it directs
that intrastate rates be established on the level of the
interstate switching rates maintained by the carriers who
are parties to the proceeding, it is said to be inapplicable
to those carriers which because they do not cross state
lines in their switching operations have filed no interstate switching rates. But we think the order is not to
be read so narrowly. It is made applicable to all the
carriers in the District and directs that the intrastate
switching rates shall be maintained on a parity with the
interstate rates "contemporaneously applied by the said
carriers." On its face it would seem that the quoted
phrase was intended only to describe the intrastate rates

BURNS MORTGAGE CO. v. FRIED.
474

Syllabus.

maintained by such of the carriers as had occasion to
establish interstate switching rates. But if this were
doubtful the order is to be read with the report. Georgia
Public Service Comm'n v' United States, supra, 771;
American Express Co. v. Caldwell, supra, 627. So read
there can be no doubt that it was intended to prescribe
for all intrastate traffic within the District the same rate
as that prescribed for all interstate traffic there, and that
interstate carriers whose rails aro confined to either state
and which for that reason have filed no interstate: switching rates are nevertheless required to adopt the prescribed
intrastate rate.
Appellants also urge that interstate carriers whose rails
reach only the Illinois part of the District cannot be required to remove a discrimination against interstate commerce unless they participate in both the prejudicial and
preferential rates, as was said in Texas & Pacific Ry. Co.
v. United States, 289 U.S. 627, with respect to discriminations between localities forbidden by § 3 of the Act.
But this restriction has no relevance to proceedings under
§ 13 (4) directed to the removal of discriminatory intrastate rates maintained by state authority. By that section the Interstate- Commerce Commission is expressly
authorized to prescribe the intrastate rates which will
remove the discrimination.
Affirmed.
BURNS MORTGAGE CO. v. FRIED.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 786.

Argued May 3, 1934.-Decided May 28, 1934.

1. The Conformity Act, 28 U.S.C. 724, requires that the form of a
law action in a federal court and the right in which it may be
brought shall be determined by the local law, but it does not apply
to substantive questions upon which the local procedure may
depend. P. 492.

