REYNOLDS v. UNITED STATES.

443

Syllabus.

REYNOLDS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 734.

Argued May 3, 1934.-Decided May 28, 1934.

1. Although the function of determining whether a veteran is entitled to hospital facilities under the World War Veterans Act, and
of ordering his hospitalization or certifying to his right thereto, is
a function of the Director of the Veterans Bureau, the right of the
veteran, where it exists on indisputable facts as a matter' of law,
may be enforced by the courts. P. 446.
2. An honorably discharged veteran of the Spanish-American War,
suffering from a neuropsychiatric ailment, was in 1911 committed
to St. Elizabeths Hospital by the Secretary of the Interior, pursuant to statutory authority, and remained there confined as an
insane person until, in 1930, he was discharged. Held:
(1) That the Veterans Bureau having had and exercised the right
to make use of this hospital for insane veterans, the facilities of the
hospital were under the control and jurisdiction of that Bureau
within the meaning of § 202 (10) of the World War Veterans Act
of 1924, as amended July 2, 1926. P. 445.
(2) Under the proviso of § 202 (10) of this amended Act, the
pension money credited to the veteran while in the hospital could
not, upon his discharge, be withheld to pay for his board at the
hospital during that period. P. 447.
(3) This applies to the charges for board incurred before July 2,
1926, the date of the proviso, as well as to those incurred afterwards, the entire deduction having been made after the proviso
became effective. P. 447.
3. A statute is not rendered retroactive merely because the facts
or requisites upon which its subsequent action depends, or some
of them, are drawn from a time antecedent to the enactment. Cox
V. Hart, 260 U.S. 427, 435. P. 449.
78 Ct. Cls. 401, reversed.

CERTIORARI * to review a judgment rejecting a claim for
recovery of pension money which had been applied to pay
for the board of a Spanish War Veteran at a government
hospital for the insane.
See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

Mr. Francis W. Hill, Jr., for petitioner.
Mr. H. Brian Holland, with whom Solicitor General
Biggs, Assistant Attorney General Sweeney, and Mr. Paul
A. Sweeney were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought in the Court of Claims by petitioner, an honorably discharged veteran of the SpanishAmerican War, to recover judgment against the United
States for money deducted from his pension on account
of board furnished him while he was an inmate of St.
Elizabeths Hospital. He was committed to the hospital
as an insane person on June 19, 1911, and remained
there until April 25, 1930, when he was discharged in
the custody of his brother. Thereafter, petitioner regained his sanity and was of sound mind when this suit
was prosecuted. During the entire period of his confinement he suffered from a neuropsychiatric ailment. Preceding the time of his discharge from the hospital there
had been placed to his credit on the books of the institution, under the certificate of the Bureau of Pensions,
$4,036, representing funds paid to the institution by the
Bureau of Pensions on his behalf. Upon his discharge
the hospital deducted from these pension funds a sum
which had been advanced to him for clothing and cash,
and applied the remaining $3,259.17 on account of board
furnished during the period of his confinement. Petitioner, at the time, protested against the application thul
made and against the refusal of the hospital to pay over
to him the amount so withheld.
Shortly after his discharge from the hospital, application was made on his behalf to the Director of the Veterans' Bureau for an order authorizing and directing his
hospitalization at St. Elizabeths Hospital from the effec-

REYNOLDS v. UNITED STATES.
443

Opinion of the Court.

tive date of the World War Veterans' Act of June 7, 1924,
to the date of his discharge, April 25, 1930. The director
held that since no application had been made by petitioner or by anyone acting in his behalf until after his
discharge, the question was moot, and the director was
without authority of law to issue a retroactive order
authorizing hospitalization in such a case. Following
this ruling, however, the bureau issued a certificate recognizing petitioner as a veteran entitled to hospitalization
under § 202 t 10) of the World War Veterans' Act of
1924, as amended.
Petitioner, by three successive enlistments, served in
the army of the United States from November 30, 1897,
until January 25, 1907, at which time he was honorably
discharged by reason of the expiration of his term of
service.
The Court of Claims denied petitioner's right to recover
and dismissed his petition. 78 Ct. Cls. 401.
Section 202 (10) of the World War Veterans' Act, as
amended (U.S.C., App., Title 38, § 484), directs that all
hospital facilities under the control and jurisdiction of
the Veterans' Bureau shall be available "for every honorably discharged veteran of the Spanish-American War,
. . . suffering from neuropsychiatric . . . ailments," with

the following proviso:
"That the pension of a veteran entitled to hospitalization under this subdivision shall not be subject to deduction, while such veteran is hospitalized in any Government
hospital, for board, maintenance, or any other purpose
incident to hospitalization."
This proviso appeared for the first time in the Act of July
2, 1926, c. 723, § 9, 44 Stat. 794.
The Veterans' Bureau had and exercised the right to
make use of St. Elizabeths Hospital for insane veterans;
and this, we think, satisfied the requirement contemplated
by the statute that the hospital facilities (not the hospi-

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

tal) shall be under the control and jurisdiction of that
bureau.
The court below, in ruling against petitioner, proceeded
upon the theory that a court is without jurisdiction to
entertain a proceeding for the determination of the question whether a veteran is entitled to hospital facilities,
to order his hospitalization, or to certify his right thereto-those being matters, the court said, within the sole
authority of the director of the bureau. Granting the
correctness of this view, we are of opinion that it does not
apply in this case. The undisputed and indisputable facts
bring the veteran within the requirements of the statute.
Undoubtedly, therefore, as matter of law, he was entitled
to the hospital facilities of St. Elizabeths, and if timely
application had been made to the director of the bureau,
a refusal upon his part to order the hospitalization would
have been wholly without evidentiary support, clearly
arbitrary and capricious, and would not, upon well settled
principles, have concluded the courts. Silberschein v.
United States, 266 U.S. 221, 225, and authorities cited;
lUnited States v. Williams, 278 U.S. 255, 257. So much,
indeed, seems to be within the concession made in the
brief and argument for the government:
" It may be conceded at the outset that if a court may
determine whether a person is entitled to hospitalization
under the statute when the Director of the Veterans'
Bureau has not passed upon the facts of the case, the petitioner has stated and proved a good cause of action,. and
the court below erred in rendering judgment in favor of
the United States."
Here no application was made to the director for the
sufficient reason that petitioner was mentally, and therefore legally, incapable of making it; and apparently he
had no guardian to act for him. However, his condition
being certified to the Secretary of the Interior, in virtue
of a statutory provision, that official, adting under the

REYNOLDS v. UNITED STATES.
443

Opinion of the Court.

statute, ordered petitioner confined at St. Elizabeths Hos-pital; and to that hospital he was accordingly committed
and there held until his discharge in 1930. It would,
perhaps, not be going too far to say that the hospital
authorities were charged with the duty of making application to the director if under these circumstances any
further steps were required. We, therefore, do not have
the case of an insane person seeking at the hands of a
court an order awarding him the facilities of the hospital,
but that of one who having been accorded such facilities
was in and entitled to be in the possession and use of
them as of right.
In this state of affairs, about which there is and can
be no dispute, the only question presented to the court
below was whether, under the proviso already quoted,
the pension of petitioner was subject to deduction for
board. The purpose of that proviso was to exempt pensions of the class named from hospital charges like the
one here involved, and thereby cure what Congress
deemed a defect in the prior law. The language is clear
and explicit, namely, "that the pension of a veteran
entitled to hospitalization under this subdivision shall not
be subject to deduction, while such veteran is hospitalized . . ., for board . . ." Given their natural meaning,

these words plainly are applicable to the situation with
which the court below was called upon to deal. The
result is that the hospital was without authority to retain
the funds here in question, and the court below should
have given judgment for petitioner.
The final contention of the government is that, in any
event, petitioner is not entitled to recover so much of the
funds withheld by the hospital as equal the charges for
board furnished prior to July 2, 1926, when the proviso
first came into effect, since to allow him to do so, it is
said, would be to give the proviso a retroactive operation
contrary to the intention of Congress. The evidence of

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

such intention is said to lie, in the fact that the bill as it
passed the House contained an additional provision to the
effect that when any such deductions "have heretofore
been made" the Veterans' Bureau shall reimburse the
veterans concerned in amounts equal thereto; and that
this provision was rejected by the Senate and finally eliminated from the bill; thus evincing the intention of Congress that the proviso should operate prospectively only.
But the rejected provision spoke only of deductions
made before the enactment of the proviso, and the deduction in the present case was not so made. The court
below found that at the time of petitioner's discharge
from the hospital the sum of the pension payments which
had been credited to him on the books of that institution
was $4,036; and that upon his discharge the hospital deducted the amount here in dispute on account of board
from May 7, 1922, to February 6, 1930. The deduction,,
therefore, was not one which had "heretofore been made,"
but was one made long after the passage of the proviso and
did not come within the terms of the rejected provision.
Certainly Congress has power to relieve a pension paid
by the federal government from liability to answer for a
preexisting unpaid debt owing to a governmental institution, as well as one thereafter incurred; and it seems entirely clear that the proviso in question was so intended.
The liability for board arose from continuous charges,
beginning before the proviso was passed and ending at
the time of petitioner's discharge, when the pension funds
credited to petitioner and then in the hands of the hospital were taken over, or "deducted," in settlement of
the then existing account for board-a proceeding plainly
forbidden by the proviso.
But in no aspect of the matter would the allowance of
that portion of the amount sued for which was applicable
to board furnished prior to July 2, 1926, cause the proviso

WOODSON v. DEUTSCHE, ETC., VORMALS.
443

449

Syllabus.

to operate retroactively. A statute is not rendered retroactive merely because the facts or requisites upon which
its subsequent action depends, or some of them, are
drawn from a time antecedent to the enactment. Cox v.
Hart, 260 U.S. 427, 435, and cases cited.
Judgment reversed with directions to
enter judgment for petitioner.
MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR. JUSTICE CARDOzo dissent.

WOODSON, ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN, ET AL.
v. DEUTSCHE GOLD UND SILBER SCHEIDEANSTALT VORMALS ROESSLER.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 795. Argued May 3, 1934.-Decided May 28, 1934.
1. The proceeds of enemy property, seized under the Trading with
the Enemy Act, are subject to the disposition of Congress. P. 453.
2. The original Trading with the Enemy Act, coupled with the Acts
of March 4, 1923, and May 16, 1928, plainly discloses a reservation
to Congress of power to appropriate the property seized or its
proceeds, as far as might be deemed necessary, to the payment of
expenses incurred in the seizure and subsequent administration. P. 454.
3. The Act of March 28, 1934, provides, inter alia, that no suit shall
be instituted or maintained "against the Alien Property Custodian
or the Treasurer of the United States, or the United States, under
any provisions of law, by any person who was an enemy or ally of
enemy as defined in the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended,
. . . nor judgment entered in any such suit heretofore or hereafter instituted, for the recovery of any deduction or deductions,
heretofore or hereafter made by the Alien Property Custodian from
money or properties, or income therefrom, held by him or by the
Treasurer of the United States hereunder, for the general or administrative expenses of the office of the Alien Property Custodian, . . ." Held, that the Act is applicable to a suit already

