40

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

292 U.S.

In Barnette v. Wells FargoBank, 270 U.S. 438, 441, the

record does not disclose on what ground removal was
sought and allowed in the District Court or the jurisdiction was sustained by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Enough appears, however, to show that the case was
wholly unlike that now before us.
Affirmed.

A. MAGNANO CO. v. HAMILTON, ATTORNEY

GENERAL OF WASHINGTON,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 589.

Argued March 7, 1934.C-Decided April 2, 1934.

A statute of the State of Washington lays a tax of fifteen cents per
pound on all butter substitutes, including oleomargarine, sold
within the State. Held:
1. In respect of the equal protection clause it is obvious that
the differences between butter and oleomargarine are sufficient to
justify their separate classification for purposes of taxation. P. 43.
2. The requirement that a tax shall be for a public purpose has
regard to the use to be made of the revenue derived from the tax.
Its purpose may be public, although the motive behind it may have
been to benefit one industry (dairying) by burdening another
(oleomargarine). P. 43.
3. The statute in question imposes no burden on interstate
commerce. P. 43.
4. The effect on an individual of an interference with federal
taxing power, caused by destruction of a potential source of federal
taxes through excessive state taxation, is too speculative, indirect
and remote to afford the individual any equitable standing in a
suit to enjoin the state tax on the ground of such interference.
P. 43.
5. In general, the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, applied to the States, like the due process clause of the
Fifth Amendment, applied to Congress, is not a limitation upon
the taxing power. P. 44.
6. The due process clause applies if the Act be so arbitrary as
to compel the conclusion that it does not involve an exertion of

MAGNANO CO. v. HAMILTON.
40

41

Opinion of the Court.
the taxing power, but constitutes, in substance and effect, the
direct exertion of a different and forbidden power, as, for example,
the confiscation of property.

P. 44.

7. Collateral purposes or motives of a legislature in levying a
tax of a kind within the reach of its lawful power are matters
beyond the scope of judicial inquiry. P. 44.
8. A tax otherwise within the lawful power of a State can not
be adjudged contrary to due process merely because its enforcement may or will result in restricting or even destroying particular
occupations or businesses. P. 44.
2 F. Supp. 414, 417, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree dismissing the bill in a suit to
enjoin collection of an excise tax on the business of selling
oleomargarine within the State.
Mr. Otto B. Rupp, with whom Messrs. Alfred J.
Schweppe, A. M. Davis, and W. R. Brown were on the
brief, for appellant.
Mr. E. P. Donnelly, Assistant Attorney General of
Washington, and Mr. Philip D. Macbride, with whom
Mr. G. W. Hamilton, Attorney General, was on the brief,
for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appellant assails as invalid a statute of the State of
Washington which levies an excise tax of fifteen cents per
pound on all butter substitutes sold within the state.
Every distributor of such butter substitutes is required to
file a duly acknowledged certificate with the Director of
Agriculture, containing the name under which the distributor is transacting business within the state and other
specified information. Sale of any butter substitute is
forbidden until such certificate is furnished. The distributor must render to the Director of Agriculture, on the
fifteenth day of each month, a sworn statement of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

number of pounds of butter substitutes sold during the
preceding calendar month. Section 10 of the act provides that the tax shall not be imposed on butter substitutes when sold for exportation to any other state, territory, or nation; and any payment or the doing of any act
which would constitute an unlawful burden upon the sale
or distribution of butter substitutes in violation of the
Constitution or laws of the United States is by § 13 excluded from the operation of the act. Violation of any
provision of the act is denounced as a gross misdemeanor.
Appellant is a Washington corporation, and has for
many years been engaged in importing and selling
"Nucoa," a form of oleomargarine. Prior to the passage
of the act, it had derived a large annual net profit from
sales made within the state. Since then, claiming the tax
to be prohibitive, it has made no intrastate sales and no
effort to do so. "Nucoa" is a nutritious and pure article
of food, with a well established place in the dietary.
Suit was brought to enjoin the enforcement of the act,
on the ground that it violates the Federal Constitution in
the following particulars: (1) that the imposition of the
tax has the effect of depriving complainant of its property
without due process of law and of denying to it the equal
protection of the laws, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment; (2) that the tax is not levied for a public
purpose, but for the sole purpose of burdening or prohibiting the manufacture, importation and sale of oleomargarine, in aid of the dairy industry; (3) that the act
imposes an unjust and discriminatory burden upon interstate commerce; and (4) that it interferes with the
power of Congress to levy and collect taxes, imposts and
excises, in violation of Art. I, § 8.
The case came before a statutory court of three judges,
under § 266 of the Judicial Code, as amended, 28 U.S.C.,
§ 380, first upon an application for an interlocutory injunction, which was denied, 2 F.Supp. 414, and subse-

MAGNANO CO. v. HAMILTON.
40

Opinion of the Court.

quently for final hearing, at the conclusion of which that
court made written findings of fact and conclusions of
law, as required by Equity Rule 70 , and entered a, final
decree dismissing the bill. 2 F.Supp. 417.
First. We put aside at once all of the foregoing contentions, except ,the one relating to due process of law, as
being plainly without merit. 1. In respect of the equal
protection clause it is obvious that the differences between
butter and oleomargarine are sufficient to justify their
separate classification for purposes of taxation. 2. That
the tax is for a public purpose is equally clear, since that
requirement has regard to the use which is to be made of
the revenue derived from the tax, and not to any ulterior
motive or purpose which may have influenced the legislature in passing the act. And a tax designed to be expended
for a public purpose does not cease to be one levied for
that purpose because it has the effect of imposing a burden
upon one class of business enterprises in such a way as
to benefit another class. 3. The act, considered as a
whole, clearly negatives the idea that a burden is imposed
upon interstate commerce, as the court below held. The
tax is confined to sales within the state, and (§§ 10 and 13,
supra) has no application to sales of oleomargarine to be
either imported or exported in interstate commerce.
4. The contention that the act interferes with the taxing
power of the United States seems to be based upon the
supposition that the state tax is so great that it will put an
end to the sale of oleomargarine within the State of
Washington, and thereby destroy a potential subject of
federal taxation. Assuming such a consequence and putting other questions aside, the effect of it upon appellant
would be so remote, speculative and indirect as to afford
appellant no basis for invoking the powers of a court of
equity. Compare Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U.S. 447,
487; Floridav. Mellon, 273 U.S. 12, 17-18.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

Second. Except in rare and special instances,* the due
process of law clause contained in the Fifth Amendment
is not a limitation upon the taxing power conferred upon
Congress by the Constitution. Brushaber v. Union Pac.

R. Co., .240 U.S. 1, 24. And no reason exists for applying
a different rule against a state in the case of the, Fourteenth Amendment. French v. Barber Asphalt Paving
Co., 181 U.S. 324, 329; Heiner v. Donnan, 285 U.S. 312,
326. That clause is applicable to a taxing statute such as
the one here assailed only if the act be so arbitrary as to
compel the conclusion that it does not involve an exertion
of the taxing power, but constitutes, in substance and
effect, the direct exertion of a different and forbidden
power, as, for example, the confiscation of property. Compare McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 423; Child
Labor Tax Case, 259 U.S. 20, 37 et seq.; McCray v. United
States, 195 U.S. 27, 60; Brushaber v. Union Pac. R. Co.,
supra, 24-25; Henderson Bridge Co. v. Henderson City,
173 U.S. 592, 614-615; Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U.S. 531,
542. Collateral purposes' or motives of a legislature in
levying a tax of a kind within the reach of its lawful power
are matters beyojid the scope of judicial inquiry. McCray v. United States, supra,56-59. Nor may a tax within the lawful power of a state be judicially stricken down
under the due process clause simply because its enforcement may or will result in restricting or even destroying
particular occupations or businesses (Loan Association v.
Topeka, 20 Wall. 655, 663-664; McCray v. United States,
eupra, 56-58, and authorities cited; Alaska Fish Co. v.
Smith, 255 U.S. 44, 48-49; Child Labor Tax Case, supra,
38, 40-43), unless, indeed, as already indicated, its necesSee Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. Co. Co., 240 US. 1, 24-25;
Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U.S. 531, 542-543; Heiner v. Donnan, 285
U.S. 312, 325-328. Compare Schlesinger v. Wisconsin, 270 US. 230,
239-240.

MAGNANO CO. v. HAMILTON.
40

Opinion of the Court.

sary interpretation and effect be such as plainly to demonstrate that the form of taxation was adopted as a mere
disguise, under which there was exercised, in reality, another and different power denied by the Federal Constitution to the state. The present case does not furnish such
a demonstration.
The point may be conceded that the tax is so excessive
that it may or will result in destroying the intrastate business of appellant; but that is precisely the point which
was made in the attack upon the validity of the ten per
cent. tax imposed upon the notes of state banks involved
in Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 548, This court
there disposed of it by saying that the courts are without
authority to prescribe limitations upon the exercise of
the acknowledged powers of the legislative departments.
"The power to tax may be exercised oppressively upon
persons, but the responsibility of the legislature is .not to
the courts, but to the people by whom its members are
elected." Again, in the McCray case, supra, answering
a like contention, this court said (p. 59) that the argument
rested upon the proposition "that, although the tax be
within the power, as enforcing it will destroy or restrict
the manufacture of artificially colored oleomargarine,
therefore the power to levy the tax did not obtain. This,
however, is but to say that the question of power depends, not upon the authority conferred by the Constitution, but upon what may be the consequence arising from
the exercise of the lawful authority." And it was held
that if a tax. be within the lawful power of'the legislature,
the exertion of the power may not be restrained because
of the results to arise from its exercise.
In Alaska Fish Co. v. Smith, supra, 48-49, a statute of
Alaska levying a heavy license tax upon persons manufacturing fish oil, etc., was upheld as constitutional against
the contention that it would prohibit and confiscate plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

tiff's business. "Even if the tax," the court said, "should
destroy a business it would not be made invalid or require
compensation upon that ground alone. Those who enter
upon a business take that risk. . ..
The acts must be
judged by their contents not by the allegations as to their
purpose in the complaint. We know of nQ objection to
exacting a discouraging rate as the alternative to giving
up a business, when the legislature has the full power
of taxation."
In the Child Labor Tax Case, supra, this court, in holding unconstitutional the provisions of the Revenue Act
of February 24, 1919, imposing a tax upon the employment
of child labor, fully recognized the foregoing limitations
upon the judicial authority; but declared that the act constituted an attempt to regulate a matter exclusively
within the control of the state, and that, although the exaction was called a tax, it was, in fact, not a tax but a penalty
exacted for the violation of the regulation. "Taxes are
occasionally imposed," it was said (p. 38), "in the discretion of the legislature on proper subjects with the primary motive of obtaining revenue from them and with the
incidental motive of discouraging them by making their
continuance onerous. They do not lose their character
as taxes because of the incidental motive. But there
comes a, time in the extension of the penalizing features
of the so-called tax when it loses its character as such and
becomes a mere penalty with the characteristics of
regulation and punishment. Such is the case in the law
before us."
The statute here under review is in form plainly a
taxing act, with nothing in its terms to suggest that it
was intended to be anything else. It must be construed,
and the intent and meaning of the legislature ascertained,
from the language of the act, and the words used therein

MAGNANO CO. v. HAMILTON.
40

Opinion of the Court.

are to be given their ordinary meaning unless the context
shows that they are differently used. Child Labor Tax
Case, supra, 36. If the tax imposed had been five cents
instead of fifteen cents per pound, no one, probably, would
have thought of challenging its constitutionality or of
suggesting that under the guise of imposing a tax another
and different power had in fact been exercised. If a contrary conclusion were reached in the present case, it could
rest upon nothing more than the single premise that the
amount of the tax is so excessive that it will bring about
the destruction of appellant's business, a premise which,
standing alone, this court heretofore has uniformly rejected as furnishing no juridical ground for striking down
a taxing act. As we have already seen, it was definitely
rejected in the Veazie Bank case, where it was urged that
the tax was" so excessive as to indicate a purpose on the
part of Congress to destroy the franchise of the bank ";
in the McCray case, where it was said that the discretion
of Congress could not be controlled or limited by the
courts because the latter might deem the incidence of the
tax oppressive or even destructive; in the Alaska Fish
case, from which we have just quoted; and in the Child
Labor Tax Case, where it was held that the intent of
Congress must be derived from the language of the act,
and that a prohibition instead of a tax was intended might
not be inferred solely from its heavy burden.
From the beginning of our government, the courts have
sustained taxes although imposed with the collateral intent of effecting ulterior ends which, considered apart,
were beyond the constitutional power of the lawmakers to
realize by legislation directly addressed to their accomplishment. Those decisions, as the foregoing discussion
discloses, rule the present case.
Decree affirmed.

