386

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Statement of the Case.

292 U.S.

OKLAHOMA GAS & ELECTRIC CO. ET AL. v. OKLAHOMA PACKING CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 832. Argued May 3, 4, 1934.-Decided May 21, 1934.
1. The three-judge procedure under Jud. Code, § 266 is an extraordinary one, designed for a specific class of cases, and must be kept
within the limitations imposed by the statute. P. 391.
2. The procedure prescribed by § 266 may be invoked only if the
suit is in fact and in law a suit to restrain the action of state
officers. P. 390.
3. When it becomes apparent that the plaintiff has no case for three
judges, though they may have been properly convened, their action
is no longer prescribed, and direct appeal to this Court must fail
as well as where the plaintiff does not press his injunction or his
constitutional attack. P. 391.
4. In a suit brought by a public utility company under Judicial
Code, § 266, to enjoin the enforcement by state officers of an
allegedly unconstitutional order affecting its service and rates, and
also to enjoin a private party from prosecuting an action based
upon the order, it became apparent at final hearing that there had
been no basis for relief against the officers because the order had
been superseded by another before the suit was begun and no
penalties were threatened. Held, that there was no occasion for
proceeding under § 266, and that a direct appeal would not lie to
this Court for thd purpose of determining the private controversy
although it was one within the general jurisdiction of the District
Court. P. 390.
5. Although without jurisdiction to hear the merits of an appeal
erroneously based on Jud. Code, § 266, this Court has authority
in the case to enforce the limitations of that section by appropriate
directions, and it may frame its order in a way that will save to
the appellants their proper remedies. P. 392.
6 F.Supp. 893, decree vacated.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, constituted
of three judges, which dismissed a suit brought against
the Corporation Commission of Oklahoma and its mem-

OKLAHOMA GAS CO. v. PACKING CO.
386

Opinion of the Court.

bers, to enjoin the enforcement of an order affecting service and rates of the plaintiff gas company; and also
against a private corporation, beneficiary of the order, to
restrain it from prosecuting an action to recover what it
had paid in excess.
Messrs. Robert M. Rainey and I. J. Underwood, with
whom Messrs. Streeter B. Flynn and R. M. Campbell were
on the brief, for appellants.
Messrs. W. R. Brown and Fred Hansen, with whom
Messrs. J, Berry King and Crawford D. Bennett were on
the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal under § 266 of the Judicial Code from
a decree of the District Court for Western Oklahoma,
three judges sitting, which dismissed the cause for want
of equity jurisdiction. 6 F.Supp. 893. The suit was
brought by Oklahoma Natural Gas Company and Oklahoma Gas & Electric Company, two public service companies, against appellees, Wilson & Company, Inc., now
Oklahoma Packing Company, a private business corporation, the State Corporation Commission, and the Attorney
General of the State, to enjoin enforcement of an order
of the Commission. The order, which directed the Oklahoma Natural Gas Company to supply Wilson & Company with natural gas at a prescribed rate, was assailed
as an infringement of the due process and contract clauses
of the Federal Constitution on the ground that it imposed on the Gas Company a duty to serve which it had
never undertaken to perform, and impaired a contract
between the two gas companies with respect to the distribution of gas by them to consumers in the vicinity of the
plant of Wilson & Company. The order, which was
made upon petition of Wilson & Company to the State

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

Commission, directed that the Oklahoma Natural Gas
Company be required to supply it with gas at a lower rate
than it had been paying for gas supplied by the Oklahoma
Gas & Electric Company which that company purchased
from the Natural Gas Company for distribution.
On appeal the state supreme court -affirmed the order.
146 Okla. 272; 288 Pac. 316. Pending the appeal, supersedeas bonds were given which suspended the order and
Wilson & Company continued to take its gas supply from
the Oklahoma Gas*& Electric Company at the higher rate.
In the meantime, while the petition to review the order
was pending before the state supreme court, and before
the present suit was brought, the Oklahoma Natural Gas
Company acquired the properties of the Oklahoma Gas &
Electric Company and a new industrial rate for natural
gas supplied by it was put into effect by order of the
Commission.
Upon.affirmance by the state supreme court of the Commission's earlier order, Wilson & Company brought suit
in the state district court, joining as defendants the Oklahoma Gas & Electric Company and the, sureties on the
supersedeas bonds, to recover the amount paid for gas in
excess of the rate prescribed by the earlier order of the
Commission. That suit was defended upon the ground,
among others, of the constitutional invalidity of the order.
Judgment was given for Wilson & Company, from which
an appeal was taken and is now pending in the state
supreme court.
Following this judgment the present suit was brought
upon a bill of complaint which set up the invalidity of
the order, alleged that the action of the state supreme
court in affirming it was legislative not judicial, see Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co. v. Wilson & Co., Inc., 54 F. (2d)
596, and prayed an injunction restraining appellees from
taking any steps to enforce it. The court below construed
this as asking both that the state officers be enjoined from

OKLAHOMA GAS CO. v. PACKING CO.
386

Opinion of the Court.

enforcing the order and that Wilson & Company be restrained from prosecuting its pending suit in the state
courts to recover the excess payments for gas. Upon the
trial, the court below made its finding, not assailed here,
that no penalties could be imposed for non-compliance
with the challenged order, as it had been suspended by
supersedeas in the proceedings to review it before the
Supreme Court of Oklahoma, and while they were pending it had become inoperative by reason of the order of
the Commission establishing the new rate. It found that
"there is no suggestion in the record of any intention on
the part of any of the officials of Oklahoma to undertake
to impose any statutory penalties for failure to comply
with the order." The court concluded that there was no
basis for relief by injunction against state officials, and
that the only issue left in the case was the right asserted
by appellees to enjoin prosecution of the suit of Wilson &
Company in the state courts, and that as the alleged invalidity of the Commission's order had been interposed as
a defense in that suit and had been passed upon by the
stAte court, there was no occasion for relief by a federal
court of equity.
The appellants insist here, as they did below, that the
district court of Oklahoma is without jurisdiction to pass
upon the issue of the invalidity of the order, since by § 20,
Art. 9 of the state constitution, exclusive jurisdiction to
review or set aside an order of the Commission is conferred on the state supreme court. See Pioneer Tel. &
Tel. Co. v. State, 40 Okla. 417; 138 Pac. 1033. We are
asked on this appeal to sustain the equity jurisdiction
of the three judge court to restrain the prosecution of
the suit at law in the state courts, upon the ground that
appellants are without adequate legal remedy to protect
themselves from the exactions of the unconstitutional
order.

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

By § 266 of the Judicial Code, suits, in which an interlocutory injunction is sought and pressed, to restrain any
state officer from enforcing or executing a state statute
or an order of a state commission, on the ground of its
unconstitutionality, are required to be tried before a court
of three judges. The section provides that "a direct appeal to the Supreme Court may be taken from a. final
decree granting or denying a permanent injunction in
such suit." Our jurisdiction to hear the present appeal is
challenged and as this is the only provision authorizing
the appeal to this Court, it is necessary at the outset to
determine whether this is "such suit."
The procedure prescribed by § 266 may be invoked
only if the suit is one to restrain the action of state
officers. Ex parte Public National Bank, 278 U.S. 101;
Ex parte Collins, 277 U.S. 565. That this condition is
vital is sufficiently indicated by reference to the part
played by Ex parte Young, 209 U.S. 123, in inducing
enactment of the section.' Hence the cause of action
alleged against Wilson & Company, although within the
jurisdiction of the district court, is subject to this extraordinary procedure, and appealable directly to this
Court, if at all only because it is incidental to the relief
prayed against the state officers. See Pittsburgh & West
Virginia Ry. Co. v. United States, 281 U.S. 479. Whether
it is so incidental we need not inquire, for we conclude
that the case against the state officers was not one within
the appellate jurisdiction conferred upon this Court by
§ 266 so as to bring either that case or its incidents before
us for decision. Compare Levering & Garrigues Co. v.
Morrin, 289 U.S. 103; Clark v. Wooster, 119 U.S. 322,
325.
'See 42 Cong. Rec. 4846, et seq.; 45 id. 7252, et seq.; Hutcheson,
A Case for Three Judges, 47 Harv. L. Rev. 795, 805.

OKLAHOMA GAS CO. v. PACKING CO.
386

Opinion of the Court.

The allegations against appellee officers, it is true,
present on their face every prerequisite to three judge
action. But when it became apparent, as it did upon the
final hearing, that there was never any basis for relief of
any sort against the state officers, and that the only matter in controversy was the right of Wilson & Company to
recover the alleged excess payments for gas, there was no
longer any occasion for proceeding under § 266. The
issue is not one of the federal jurisdiction of the district
court, see Healy v. Ratta, ante, p. 263; Ex parte Poresky,
290 U.S. 30, 31; compare Rice & Adams Corp. v. Lathrop,
278 TY.S. 509, 514, with Smith v. Wilson, 273 U.S. 388,
and Ex parte Hobbs, 280 U.S. 168; but whether a final
hearing by three judges was prescribed by the section,
and hence whether this Court has jurisdiction to hear the
appeal. Smith v. Wilson, supra.
The three judge procedure is an extraordinary one,
imposing a heavy burden on federal courts, with attendant expense and delay. That procedure, designed for a
specific class of cases, sharply defined, should not be
lightly extended. Ex. parte Collins, supra, at 569. The
limitations of the statute would be defeated were it
enough to keep three judges assembled that a plaintiff
could resort to a mere form of words in his complaint
alleging that the suit is one to restrain action of state
officers, with no support whatever in fact or law. Compare Pacific Elec. Ry. Co. v. Los Angeles, 194 U.S. 112,
118; see also Wilderman v. Roth, 17 F. (2d) 486. The
restrictions placed upon appellate review in this Court by
the jurisdictional act of February 13, 1925, would likewise be measurably impaired were groundless allegations
thus to suffice. See Smith v. Wilson, supra, at 390; compare United States v. Alaska S.S. Co., 253 U.S. 113.
When it becomes apparent that the plaintiff has no case
for three judges, though they may have been properly

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

convened, their action is no longer prescribed and direct
appeal here must fail as well in this case as where the
plaintiff does not press his injunction, Smith v. Wilson,
supra, or his constitutional attack. Compare Ex parte
Hobbs, supra.2
Although without jurisdiction to hear the merits of the
appeal, this Court, in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction, has authority to give such directions as may
be appropriate to enforce the limitations of § 266, and
to conform the procedure to its requirements. And we
may frame our order in a way that will save to the appellants their proper remedies. Gully v. Interstate Natural Gas Co., ante, p. 16; see Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Dennis, 224 U.S. 503; compare United States v. Anchor
Coal Co., 279 U.S. 812.
By mistakenly appealing directly to this Court appellants have lost their opportunity to have the decree below
reviewed on its merits, as the time for appeal to the
Circuit Court of Appeals has expired. Compare Healy
v. Ratta, 289 U.S. 701; ante, p. 263. We might now
terminate the litigation by dismissing the appeal without
more, and it would be proper to do so had the correct
procedure under § 266 been more definitely settled at the
time the appeal to this Court was attempted. But in
the circumstances, it is appropriate that the decree below
should be vacated and the cause remanded to the district
court for further proceedings to be taken independently
of § 266 of the JUdicial Code. Gully v. Interstate
Natural Gas Co., supra.
Costs will be awarded against the appellants. See
Mansfield, Coldwater & Lake Michigan Ry. Co. v. Swan,
111 U.S. 379, 387.
Decree vacated.
'The authorities are collected and discussed in Bowen, When Are
Three Federal Judges Required, 16 Minn. L.Rev. 1, 33-39.

