498

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

292 U. S.

The judgment must be reversed and the cause remanded
to the District Court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

Reversed.
OHIO ET AL. v. UNITED STATES .ET AL.*
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 868.

Argued May 8, 1934.-Decided May 28, 1934.

The Interstate Commerce Commission found that intrastate rates on
bituminous' coal from certain mining districts in southeastern Ohio
to destinations in the northeastern portion 'of the State, as reduced by order or permission of the Public Utilities Commission
of the State, were substantially lower, distance considered, than
interstate rates on such coal moving to the same destinations from
districts in Pennsylvania and West Virginia; that the interstate rates
from the latter districts were reasonable; that the system of
differentials between the Ohio origins and the more remote otherState origins was proper, distance and other conditions considered;
that 'the reduced Ohio rates were unduly preferential of persons
and localities in Ohio and unduly prejudicial to persons and
localities in the Pennsylvania and West Virginia districts; and
that to remove such discrimination, the intrastate rates should be
increased to their former level and the preexisting interrelationship
reestablished. In a suit to annul the resulting order, held:
1. Objection that the Commission did not afford a fair hearing
is based on excerpts from its report, taken out of their connection,
and is disproved by an examination of the record, report and findings. P. 505.
2. There was ample evidence before the Commission to sustain
the finding of undue prejudice against interstate shippers and
localities. P. 506..
3. It is not required of the Commission that, before it can remove undue prejudice caused by intrastate rates to districts of
origin in other nearby States whose rates are under consideration
and found reasonable, it must find or make reasonable other interstate rates to the destination in question, which are adjusted on a
*

Together with No. 886, United States et al. v. Ohio et al.

OHIO v. UNITED STATES.
498

499

Counsel for Parties.

different rate base ,and apply to districts lying in comparatively
remote areas. P. 506.
4. It is a theory of rate-making that the longer haul may be expected to yield a lower ton-mile return. P. 508.
6 F. Supp. 386, affirmed.
Appeal in No. 886, dismissed.

APPEALS from decrees of the District Court, constituted
of three judges, which dismissed the bills in two suits to
set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission. The two suits had been consolidated for trial.
The cross-appeal, No. 886, was from an order of the court
below staying the operation and enforcement of the order'
of the Commission for 60 days. This order of the court
below was vacated by this Court, February 12, 1934, see
291 U.S. 644. The cross-appeal is therefore now dismissed
as moot.
. Mr. John W. Bricker, Attorney General of Ohio, and
Messrs. Ernest S. Ballard, Clan Crawford, and H. Austin
Hauxhurst, with whom Messrs. Donald C. Power, Atlee
Pomerene, and Andrew P. Martin were on the brief, for
the State of Ohio et al., appellants in No. 868 and appellees in No. 886.
Mr. J. Stanley Payne, with whom Solicitor General
Biggs, Assistant Attorney General Stephens, and Messrs.
Elmer B. Collin$ and Daniel W. Knowlton were on the
brief, for the United States and Interstate Commerce
Commission, appellees in No. 868 and appellants in No.
886.
Mr. August G. Gutheim for the Western Pennsylvania
Coal Traffic Bureau et al., appellees in No. 868 and appellants in No. 886.
Mr. Alexander M. Bull, with whom Mr. Henry C. Hall
was on the brief, for Robert C. Hill et al., Receivers,
appellees in No. 868 and appellants in No. 886.

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

Mr. Guernsey Orcutt, with whom Messrs. M. Carter
Hall, Leo P. Day, Charles R. Webber, and Frederic D.
McKenney were on the brief, for the Pennsylvania
Railroad Co. et al., interveners.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These are appeals from orders of a statutory court of
three judges, convened in the Southern District of Ohio,
in two suits, one brought by the State of Ohio and the
Public Utilities Commission of Ohio, and the other by the
Wheeling and Lake Erie Railway Company, against the
United States and the Interstate Commerce Commission,
to enjoin and set aside two orders of the Commission.
The suits were consolidated for trial. The first of the
Commission's orders, that of May 2, 1933, required the
increase of Ohio intrastate rates on bituminous coal from
certain mining districts in eastern and southern Ohio to
destinations in the northeastern portion of the State.
The second order, that of May 9, 1933, required the rates
prescribed by the first to be increased by the amount of
the surcharge authorized upon interstate rates on bituminous coal in the Fifteen Per Cent Case, 1931, 178 I.C.C.
539, 179 I.C.C. 215, and 191 I.C.C. 361. While the causes
were under submission the period during which the surcharge was authorized expired, and it was discontinued.
The court, therefore, refrained from any adjudication as
to the order of May 9, 1933, and no issue is here raised
concerning it.
The court granted preliminary injunctions, but after
a hearing on the merits, dissolved them and dismissed the
bills. It, however, stayed the operation of the order of
May 2, 1933, for a period of sixty days, so that the plaintiffs might perfect an appeal to this court. Upon the
allowance of an appeal (No. 868) the defendants took a

OHIO v. UNITED STATES.
498

Opinion of the Court.

cross-appeal (No. 886) assigning as error the entry of the
stay order. By decree of February 12, 1934 (291 U.S.
644), the stay was vacated. The appeal in No. 886 will,
therefore, be dismissed as moot.
The Commission's order of May 2, 1933, requiring the
rates intrastate from points in southern and eastern Ohio
to destinations in northeastern Ohio, on bituminous coal
in carload lots, to conform to those in effect prior to
June 30, 1932, was entered under § 13 (3) and (4) of the
Interstate Commerce Act.' The Commission found that
the reduced rates yut into effect on the intrastate traffic
in question as a result of orders or permission of the Public
Utilities Commission of Ohio were unduly preferential of
persons and localities in Ohio, unduly prejudicial to persons and localities without the State, and that they cast
an undue revenue burden upon interstate commerce.
The appellants, conceding the Commission's power
under § 13 (3) and (4) of the Act (Florida v.
United States, 282 U.S. 194, 208; United States v. Louisiana, 290 U. S.70; Floridav. United States, ante, p. 1),
claim the dismissal of the bills was erroneous for these
reasons: (1) The Commission did not afford them the
full and fair hearing to which they are entitled by § 13 of
the Act. (2) There is no evidence to support the finding
that restoration of the state rates to their former level
was required to avoid undue preference and prejudice
between persons and localities. (3) The Commission exceeded its authority in requiring the state rates to be'
raised, without first having found reasonable, or made
reasonable, all substantially competitive interstate rates
to the same destinations.
The District Court held the order justified by reason of
undue preference and prejudice, but did not pass upon
the lawfulness of the Commission's action in respect of
'U.S.C. 49, c. 1, § 13 (3), (4).

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

revenue discrimination. We hold the decision of the court
was right and we need not discuss the arguments presented
as to revenue burden.
The litigation does not involve state-wide rates, but only
those on bituminous coal in carloads from producing fields
in Ohio to destinations in that portion of the State lying
northwardly of a line drawn east and west through Columbus, and eastwardly of a line drawn north and south
through Galion and Sandusky and Columbus. The latter territory is highly industrialized, and great quantities
of coal are there consumed for manufacturing and domestic purposes. This comes from the producing districts in eastern Ohio and from those to the east and south
in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Kentucky and adjoining
states. The rates are group rates from each mining district; all mines within a single district enjoying the same
rate to a given destination. As found by the court below,
prior to August 1, 1932, there was maintained what it
described as "a finely balanced and nicely adjusted schedule of interstate and intrastate rates on bituminous coal
from western Pennsylvania, northern West Virginia, and
Ohio coal mining districts, to northeastern Ohio, with fixed
differentials which have been regarded as essentially reasonable in view of all the elements which must be considered in rate making." These differentials had been
maintained long prior to the year 1932; the rates being
based upon that from the Pittsburgh district to Youngstown. With that rate fixed those from more remote producing districts, such as Connellsville, immediatel south
of the Pittsburgh district, and Fairmont, south of Connellsville, in northern West Virginia, -were made by adding a differential; and rates to Cleveland and other more
distant destinations also by adding a differential.
In 1932 the Ohio Commission ordered a reduction in
the rates from two Ohio producing districts (Middle-Massillon and Ohio No. 8) to Canton and to Massillon.

OHIO v. UNITED STATES.
498

Opinion of the Court.

Thereafter the Wheeling & Lake Erie Railway sought and
obtained permission to extend the reductions to other
destinations. The result was lowered scales to important
coal consuming points such as Cleveland and Lorain.
The New York Central, the Pennsylvania, the Baltimore
& Ohio, and the Pittsburgh & West Virginia, as well as
the Wheeling & Lake Erie, serve the Ohio producing territory. They resisted the proposed reductions of the
Wheeling & Lake Erie, but without success. In order to
meet competition, they reduced the rates between No.
8 District in Ohio and northeastern Ohio destinations.
Thereafter, in order to preserve rate relationships, the
Ohio Commission compelled reductions from mines in the
Cambridge, Hocking and Pomeroy districts. Thus, by
November 1, 1932, all of the intrastate rates between
origins in Ohio and destinations in the territory above
mentioned had been substantially lowered. This threw
out of relation the interstate rates from the Freeport,
Pittsburgh, Connellsville and Fairmont districts.
Several proceedings before the Interstate Commerce
Commission resulted. In Septeniber and October, 1932,
twelve carriers serving the Ohio districts and other origin
territory in Pennsylvania, Maryland and nearby states,
complained that the reductions gave an undue advantage
and preference to persons and localities in Ohio to the
prejudice of persons and localities outside the State, and
charged also unreasonable and unjust discrimination
against, and undue burden upon, interstate commerce.
The Commission ordered an investigation, and named as
respondents all railroads operating in Ohio subject to its
jurisdiction. Subsequently four complaints were filed on
behalf of operator8 of mines in Pennsylvania, Maryland
and West Virginia. These alleged that the reduced Ohio
rates in their relation to interstate rates were unduly
preferential of Ohio shippers and localities, and unduly
prejudicial to interstate shippers and localities, and un-

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

justly discriminated against interstate commerce. Three
of the complaints asserted that the interstate rates to
northeastern Ohio from mines in the Pittsburgh, Freeport,
"Connellsville, and Fairmont districts were unreasonable
and in violation of § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act.
After the Ohio rates were reduced the P. & W. Va. Railroad lowered its rates from the Pittsburgh district. The
Commission suspended these rates, but by a subsequent
order permitted their continuance subject to further investigation. The Complaint cases and the Investigation
and Suspension case against the P. & W. Va. Railroad
were consolidated with the 13th section investigation and
heard upon a single record.
The Commission found that northeastern Ohio is served
principally by the Pennsylvania, New York Central, Baltimore & Ohio, Wheeling, and Nickle Plate-Erie system;
that all of these carriers participate in the rates and transportation of bituminous coal from the Ohio mines and
mines in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and other states,
to the same destination, and that there is a large movement of coal from the Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia mines to northeastern Ohio. From the record it
concluded that coal is transported from the Ohio mines
to the destinations in question "at intrastate rates which
are generally substantially lower, distance considered,
than are the reasonable interstate rates herein provided,
under which such coal is moved to such destinations from
Pennsylvania and West Virginia "; and that "this disparity in rates is greater than is warranted by differences
in transportation conditions from the Ohio mines on the
one hand and the Pennsylvania and West Virginia mines
on the other."
-There was evidence in substantial volume bearing upon
the issue of the reasonableness of the existing interstate
rates from the Freeport, Pittsburgh, Connellsville and
Fairmont districts to the destination territory involved.

OHIO V'.UNITED STATES.
498

Opinion of the Court.

Much evidence was adduced as to rates approved by the
Commission in other proceedings for approximately similar hauls, under similar transportation conditions. The
Wheeling & Lake Erie introduced a cost study, and the
State and other parties produced evidence as to coal rates
in Illinois, fixed by the Commission, and a comparison
of the conditions in that territory and those found in
Ohio, all for the purpose of demonstrating that the reduced
Ohio rates were maximum reasonable rates. There was
evidence in opposition to this contention. The testimony
showed that coal had moved freely from all producing
areas, intrastate and interstate, under the old rates, and
tended to prove .that the unbalancement of the relation
between the state and interstate rates had retarded and
prohibited the shipment of a large quantity of coal from
the other states to northeastern Ohio. The Commission
in its report discusses this evidence in detail, and based
upon it, makes findings to the effect that the interstate
rates from the Freeport, Pittsburgh, Connellsville and
Fairmont districts are reasonable; the system of differentials between the nearer state origins and the more remote interstate origins is proper, distance and other conditions considered; the reduced state rates are unduly
preferential of persons and localities in Ohio and unduly
prejudicial to persons and localities in the Freeport, Pittsburgh, Connellsville and Fairmont districts; and in order
to remove the undue discrimination between persons and
localities the intrastate rates should be increased to the
former level, and the preexisting interrelationships redstablished.
1. The assertion that appellants were denied a fair
hearing rests not upon any refusal to receive evidence
tendered, but upon the Commission's alleged misconception of the rules as to burden of proof. It is said that
from the outset the Commission acted upon a presumption that the reduced Ohio rates were unlawful and cast

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

on the appellants the burden of overcoming it by a preponderance of proof impossible of production. This complaint is founded upon a portion of the opening sentence

of the report and two sentences near its close and by an
analysis of the remainder of the report intended to show
that the Commission gave too little weight to appellants'
evidence and too much to that in opposition. On examination of the record, the report and the findings, we are
satisfied there is no adequate foundation for the contention. The excerpts from the report which are cited, when
read in their context, indicate only that the Commission
intended fairly to inquire with respect to the lawfulness
of the attacked rates and, after evaluating all the proofs
on both sides, concluded that the preponderance was
heavily against the appellants. The hearing was fair.
2. Untenable, also, is the position that there was no
sufficient evidence to support the finding of preference
and prejudice. We agree with the District Court that the
proof of discrimination against interstate shippers and
localities was convincing. Upon the issue whether the
preference and prejudice was undue,-that is, whether the
interstate rates were reasonable, whether the attacked intrastate rates were reasonable maxima, and what the
proper relationship between the two scales should be,-a
large amount of evidence was taken and considered in
detail. There was ample support for each of the findings. In effect, we are asked to rebxamine the evidence,
appraise it, and hold the Commission erred in its judgmeit as to the facts. We have often said that we have no
such power.
3. The claim is that the Commission exceeded its authority in requiring state rates to be raised without
having found or made reasonable all substantially competitive interstate rates. This contention requires the
statement of certain matters in addition to those above
recited. As we have seen, the coal which. reaches north-

. OHIO v. UNITED STATES.
498

507

Opinion of the Court.

eastern Ohio comes from mines within and without the
State. Those within Ohio are grouped in eight origin
districts lying in the eastern and southern portions of
the State. Those without Ohio lie in two rough arcs
known as the inner and outer crescents. The inner includes the Pittsburgh district in western Pennsylvania
contiguous to the Ohio River, the Connellsville immediately to the south, the Fairmont to the south of that, and
eleven others to the southwestward through northern
West Virginia, eastern Kentucky. and Tennessee. The
outer crescent is composed of districts extending in a
wider arc eastward and southward of the inner crescent
from the Altoona in Pennsylvania at the northeastern
extremity to the Rathburn in southern Tennessee at the
southwestern extremity'

The mines in each district enjoy the same rate to a
single destination, but the rates from .the more remote
districts are higher than those from the Ohio districts and
from the more northerly districts in the inner crescent.
In the proceedings before the Commission the only attack
upon the reasonableness of interstate rates was leveled
at those from the Pittsburgh, Connellsville and Fairmont regions. The complainants did not plead or offer
proof that the rates from the more southerly districts in
the inner crescent, or from those in the outer crescent,
were unreasonably high. Nor did the appellants, who
were respondents before the Commission, assert or attempt to prove that they were too low. These rates were
put in evidence by the appellants, but only for the purpose of showing, by comparison of the ton-mile earnings
under them, that the reduced Ohio rates were reasonable
maxima.
'A map showing the area and location of the Ohio districts and
most of those in the inner and outer crescents will be found in
46 I.C.C. opposite page 158.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

The argument is .that by confining its investigation of
the reasonableness of the interstate rates to those from
the Freeport, Pittsburgh, Connellsville and Fairmont
origins and neglecting to investigate the reasonableness
of those from the inner and outer crescents generally, the
Commission exposed intrastate commerce to unjust discrimination in relation to competitive interstate commerce originating in the inner and outer crescents. Support for the argument is drawn from the assertion first,
that the existing interstate rates from the crescents are
lower than those from the Ohio mines, and secondly, that
the entire crescent adjustment has always been made and
regulated so as to represent a reasonable average level,
and therefore any consideration of the Ohio rates should
rest upon a comparison of the average reasonableness of
the entire interstate adjustment.
The appellants fail to call attention to anything in the
record which supports either of these statements, and we
have been unable to find anything of the sort. The fact
is that the rates from the southern inner and from the
outer crescent territory are much higher than those from
Ohio mines, and considerably in excess of those from the
Freeport, Pittsburgh, Connellsville and Fairmont districts. It is undoubtedly true that the former show lower
earnings per ton-mile than the latter. This, however, is
in entire accord with the theory of rate making, namely,
that the longer haul may be expected to yield a lower
ton-mile return. But entirely apart from this, the record
not only does not disclose that the entire adjustment of
interstate rates from the Appalachian district is upon an
average basis, but shows the contrary. Coal moves from
Ohio origins and from both the crescents to destinations
in territory other than the destination area here involved.
Rates upon these movements have been the subject of
repeated investigations by the Commission. Examination of the record and of the various proceedings with

OHIO v. UNITED STATES.
498

509

Opinion of the Court.

respect to these interstate rate adjustments discloses that
there are four major adjustments on northwestwardbound coal from Ohio and the crescents. One is the lake
cargo adjustment, applicable on coal moving to lower
Lake Erie ports for transshipment by water. The rate
from any origin district is the same to all ports to which
rates are published, but there are differentials in favor of
Ohio origins and against inner and outer crescent districts.' A second embraces rates to northwestern Ohio,
northeastern Indiana, and the southern peninsula of
Michigan. The third is to territory west of that just
mentioned, in which Chicago is a typical destination
point. To the destination territory covered by the last
mentioned areas the adjustments are similar, though the.
differentials from various points of origin are -not the
same. Five of the Ohio districts--No. 8, Cambridge,
Hocking, Pomeroy, and Jackson-have the same rate to
any given destination; the other Ohio districts take differentials under the rates from the former. All inner
crescent districts have the same rate to a given destination. It is 500 over the Hocking rate to a destination in
the first mentioned territory, and 35¢ over the Hocking
rate to Chicago. The outer crescent has differentially
higher rates than those applicable to the inner. The base
rate for these two adjustments is the rate from Hocking
to Toledo.'
The fourth adjustment is that to northeastern Ohio.
It differs from the three previously mentioned. On shipments from Crooksville, Pomeroy and Hocking in Ohio,
and from Kanawha and other southern inner crescent
districts, northeastern Ohio prior to August 1, 1932, was
included in the Toledo group, Cleveland taking the same
rate as Toledo from those Ohio districts, and a rate 50
8

See Lake Cargo Coal Cases, 1930, 181 I.C.C. 37.
'Compare Bituminous Ccal to C. F. A. Territory, 46 I.C.C. 66;

Ohio-Michigan Coal Cases, 80 I.C.C. 663.

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

higher from the named inner crescent districts. On the
other hand, from Middle, Massillon, No. 8 and Cambridge in Ohio, and from Freeport, Pittsburgh, Connellsville and Fairmont in the northern part of the inner
crescent, the adjustment was quite distinct. The base
for these rates was not the Hocking-Toledo rate, but the
Pittsburgh-Youngstown, or Pittsburgh-Cleveland rate.
The rate from Ohio district No. 8 to Cleveland was 100
under the Pittsburgh-Cleveland rate. The rate from
Connellsville is 90, and from Fairmont 150, over the Pittsburgh-Cleveland rate. The more southerly Ohio districts
have always had a rate differentially higher than No. 8.
Thus it appears that the adjustment from the crescent
districts has not been, as appellant asserts, based on an
average principle or average rates of all origin territory
shipping coal to northeastern Ohio.
The appellant's argument, then, comes to this: That
if a commodity is shipped in large quantities in interstate
commerce from certain districts without Ohio to a destination in that state, and if it happens that the commodity
also reaches the same destination from wholly different
regions whose rates have been built upon a different key
rate, the Commission cannot abate a discrimination between the first named group of rates, found to be reasonable, and the intrastate rates, without first finding that
the rate from every other region to the same destination
in Ohio is reasonable. To state the proposition is to answer it. The Commission has found the interstate rates
from Freeport, Pittsburgh, Connellsville and Fairmont
districts to northeastern Ohio destinations are reasonable.
It cannot remove a preference and prejudice due to the
reduction of the Ohio intrastate rate, so the argument
runs, unless it finds also that the rate from a district in
eastern Tennessee, close to the Alabama border, to the
same destination, is also reasonable. Where rates are
uniform from a group of origins to a given destination it

INT. MILLING CO. v. COLUMBIA CO.

511

Syllabus.

498

is necessary for the Commission to find that the rates
from the group as a whole are reasonable, before it can
raise the intrastate rates. Compare Georgia Public Service Comm'n v. United States, 283 U.S. 765; State Corporation Comm'n v. Aberdeen & Rockfish R. Co., 136 I.C.C.
173. But it by no means follows that that body, before
it can remove discrimination against the district of origin
whose rates are under consideration, must find or make
reasonable rates adjusted to a different base rate and
applyifig from districts lying in -comparatively distant
areas.
The Commission has found that the interstate rates
from four districts of origin are reasonable. It has found
that Ohio intrastate rates, the transportation conditions
being similar, are, distance considered, out of relation to
these interstate rates, so as to create undue preference and
prejudice. These findings, supported by evidence, fully
justified the order with respect to the intrastate rates
under § 13 of the Act. Compare Louisiana Commission
v. Texa8 & N. 0. R. Co., 284 U.S. 125.
No. 868, Judgment affirmed.
No. 886, Appeal dismissed.
INTERNATIONAL

MILLING CO. v. COLUMBIA

TRANSPORTATION CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 561.

Argued February 16, 1934.-Decided May 28, 1934.

1. In determining whether a suit brought in a state court by one
foreign corporation against another on a foreign cause of action is
an unreasonable burden on the interstate commerce conducted by
the defendant and is therefore beyond the jurisdiction of the court,
the fact that the plaintiff is a resident of the State, in the sense
that its business is there, is of high significance. P. 519.
2. The business of a Delaware corporation, with its principal office

in Ohio, was carriage of merchandise by steamer in interstate and

