OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

292 U.S.

which credit is sought. It would have been proper for
the taxpayer to carry the debt in question in a suspense
account awaiting the ultimate determination of the
amount that could be realized upon it, and thus to indicate the status of the debt in financial statements of the
taxpayer's condition. But that proper practice, in order
to advise those from whom credit might be sought of
uncertainties in the realization of assets, does not affect
the construction of the statute, or make the debt deducti5le in 1920, when the entire debt was not worthless, when
the amount which would prove uncollectible was not yet
ascertained, rather than in 1923 when that amount was
ascertained and its deduction allowed.
We conclude that the ruling of the Circuit Court of
Appeals was correct.
Judgment affirmed.

SANDERS v. ARMOUR FERTILIZER WORKS ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 106. Submitted February 5, 1934.-Decided April 30, 1934.
1. Two claimants of a fund due by a fire insurance company, one
claiming it as insurance money due under a policy and the other
claiming it as a creditor of the first who had attached the fund by
garnishing the insurance company, are adverse claimants within
the intendment of the Interpleader Act of May 8, 1926; 2S U.S.C.,
§ 41 (26). P. 199.
2. The purpose of the Interpleader Act of May 8, 1926; 28 U.S.C.,
§ 41 (26) is to protect the stakeholder, and to determine the
claims according to equity, weighing the right or title of each
claimant under the law of the State in which his claim arose. Full
faith and credit must be given by the forum to judicial proceedings
in other States upon which claims are founded. Pp. 199, 204.
3. Under this Act, the fund paid into court by the applicant for
interpleader does not come under the domination of the law of the
particular State in which the suit is brought, and the rights of

SANDERS v. FERTILIZER WORKS.
190

Argument for Petitioner.

claimants can not be varied by the applicant's choice of forum.
Pp. 200, 205.
4. Under the law of Illinois a garnishment, with judgment by default
against the debtor after service on him by publication, gives the
plaintiff in the garnishment proceeding at least an inchcate lien
upcn the fund or debt attached, which may be perfected by a
final judgment against the garnishee. P. 203.
5. An exemption from execution extended by statutes of Texas to
proceeds of fire insurance on property appertaining to a homestead
in that State is not recognized by the laws of Illinois when the
insured is sued there on a debt and the insurance money is attached
by garnishment served on the insurance company. P. 203.
6. A fire insurance company owing money to a resident of Texas on
account of the burning of his homestead property in that State,
was garnished in Illinois in :n action on a debt against the insured
in which he suffered judgment by default. The company then
interpleaded the garnishor-plaintiff and the insured by a suit in
the federal court in Texas, under 28 U.S.C., § 41 (26); paid the
insurance money into the registry; and prosecution of the Illinois
action was enjoined. Hcld that the Illinois claimant wis entitled
to the fund as against the insured, who claimed that it was
exempt' under the Texas homestead exemption statutes. P. 204.
63 F. (2d) 902, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 290 U.S. 623, to review the reversal of a
judgment recovered by Sanders in a case of interpleader
in the federal court. See also 33 F. (2d) 157; 38 id. 212,
on the question of the District Court's jurisdiction.

Mr. Thomas D. Gresham submitted for petitioner.
The judicial proceeding instituted by Armour in Illinois, which under the laws and practice of that State
merely gave rise to an inchoate and defeasible claim upon
the debt sought to be garnished, in an indeterminate
amount so far as a garnishing plaintiff was concerned,
need not be honored in Texs as a definite and final judgment awarding the entire debt sought to be garnished to
the satisfaction of Armour's claim.
The full faith and credit clause of the Federal Constitution, after prescribing in general terms that full faith

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Petitioner.

292 U.S.

and credit shall be given in each State to the public acts,
records, and judicial proceedings of every other State,
leaves the specific enforcement of the clause to statutory
enactment by Congress. This power has been exercised
by Congress, and the statute on this point (28 U.S.C.,
§ 687) is clear. The judicial proceeding relied upon by
Armour is to be given only such faith and credit as it
would be entitled to by law or usage in the courts of Illinois. Lancashire Ins. Co. v. Corbetts, 165 Ill. 592;
Beckcr v. Illinois Central R. Co., 250 Ill. 40; 28 C.J. 252;
Bigelow v. Andress, 31 Ill. 322; McElwee v. l1ilce, SO Ill.
App. 338; Robertson v. Pickrell, 109 U.S. 608; Union &
Planters Bank v. Memphis, 18 U.S. 71; Covington v.
First Nat. Bank, 198 U.S. 100; Free v. TWestern Union, 15S
Wis. 36; Bruce v. Ackroyd, 95 Conn. 167; Aldrich v.
Kinvney, 4 Conn. 380; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v.
Sturm, 174 U.S. 170; Hari-is v. Ball, IDS U.S. 215; Kline
v. Burke Construction Co., 260 U.S. 226; Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U.S. 107; National Bank v. Indiana Banking
Co., 114 Ill. 483; Reeve v. Smith, 113 Ill. 477; Martin v.
Dryden, 6 Ill. 187; Corbin v. Graves, 27 Fed. 644; Walker
v. Garland, 235 S.W. 1078; Lears v. Seaboard Air Line
Ry., 3 Ga. App. 614; Rood on Garnishment, § 11; Black
on Judgments, p. 1039; 34 C.J. 1105; 15 R.C.L. 900; 1
Lewis's Sutherland on Statutory Construction, p. 283;
State Bank of Chicago v. Thweatt, 111 Ill. App. 599; U.S.
Constitution, Art. 4, § 1; Illinois Attachment Act, § 37.
All matters of procedure, including the remedies of
garnishment and exemption, in all kinds of actions, are
to be governed wholly by the law of the forum. The
idea that in interpleader suits the courts of the forum are
free to disregard its procedural law and to follow such
procedural law, domestic or foreign, as may appeal to
them as reaching the most equitable result under the circumstances, is fallacious. Story, Conflict of Laws, Sth
ed., §§ 556. 558; Wharton, Conflict of Laws, Vol. 2, p.

SANDERS v. FERTILIZER WORKS.
190

Argument for Petitioner.

1433; Dicey, Conflict of Laws, 2d ed., p. 708; Scudder v.
Union Nat. Bank, 91 U.S. 406; Lanahanv. Sears, 102 U.S.
318; Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 How. 311; Mason v. United
States, 260 U.S. 545; Bank of U.S. v. Donnally, 8 Pet.
361; Pritchardv. Norton, 106 U.S. 134; Vogel v. Thiesing,
55 F. (2d) 205; Logan v. Goodwin, 104 Fed. 490; Thompson v. McConnell, 107 Fed. 33; Cameron v. Fay, 55 Tex.
58; Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U.S. 107; Chase v. Swayne,
88 Tex. 218; Sorenson v. City Nat. Bank, 121 Tex. 478;
28 U.S.C., §§ 41 (26), 725, 726, 727; U.S. Equity Rule 23;
Art. 16, § 50, Constitution of Texas; Art. 3832, Rev. Civ.
Stats. of Texas.
The court below erred in holding it the policy of the
United States to aid a creditor to collect his claim against
a debtor in violation of the exemption laws of the State
of the, debtor's domicile, and especially so in a United
States District Court sitting within the confines of the
State whose exemption laws the creditor is seeking to
evade. Holden v. Stratton, 198 U.S. 214; Chase v.
Swayne, 88 Tex. 218; Ketcham v. Ketcham, 269 Ill. 584;
Reames v. Morrow, 193 Ill. App. 155; Singer Mfg. Co. v.
Fleming, 39 Neb. 679; Strawn Mercantile Co. v. FirstNat.
Bank, 279 S.W. 473; Jackson v. Republic, 141 Ill. App.
453; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. McDonald, 112 Ill. App.
391; Steele v. Buel, 104 Fed. 972.
We believe that the majority decision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is plainly in violation of the provisions of 28 U.S.C., § 687, in that the decision expressly
gave to the incomplete garnishment proceeding in Illinois
a greater effect than was given to it by the established
law and usage of that State, on the plea that the
Supreme Court of Illinois had incorrectly interpreted the
law of that State, and that the court below had the
right to place its own interpretation upon the law of
Illinois in preference to accepting the interpretation of
the. Illinois Supreme Court. In its holding that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

institution of a garnishment suit is the equivalent of a
final judgment awarding to the garnishing plaintiff all the
relief sought by him in such suit, and that it must be
recognized and enforced as such in the courts of a sister
State, even though it be in violation of the public policy
and laws of such sister State, the decision is squarely in
conflict with the prior decision of this Court in Cole v.
Cumn)igham, 133 U.S. 107.
In the right asserted by the majority of the Circuit
Court of Appeals to disregard the sovereign laws of the
State in which the district court is sitting, whenever the
individual judge sitting as such court may consider such
sovereign laws to be inequitable, the decision is revolutionary. wholly without precedent, and dangerous in the
extrelne.

icssrs. CharlI. .1. FUoll'r,Jr., ail liar! 3Mc.l[alwu
subiitted for A riniur FeIrtilizer Vorks, respoiidi enI.

3r. George S. 1lrig

slibinitted for Natiovial Fire

Insurance Co., respondeit.

iXIR. JUSTICE AIcIEYNOLDS delivered the o)inion of the
Court.
Ncw York Life Itis. Co. v. Dudcvy (1916), 241 V.S. 51S,
exhibited the serious problems encountered by insurance
companies when conflicting deiandIs are made by residents of different States. There two individuals, residents of California and Pennsylvania, clainied the surrender value of a life policy. The insurer unsuccessfully
sought through interpleader proceedings in Pennsylvania
to secure release from all liability.
It order to mitigate the difficulties, Congress, by the
Act of February 27, 1917, 39 Stat. 929, authorized insurance companies to file bills of interpleader in District
Courts of the United States. An amendment followed

SANDERS v. FERTILIZER WORKS.
190

195

Opinion of the Court.

February 25, 1925, 43 Stat. 976, U.S.C.A. 28. § 41 (26).
And the Act of May 8, 1926, 44 Stat. 416, U.S.C.A. 28,
Supp., § 41 (26) (in the margin'), rewrote and amplified
the provisions of the earlier enactments.
'Act approved May 8, 1926, 44 Stat. 416. Chap. 273-" The district courts of the United States shall have original jurisdiction to
entertain and determine suits in equity begun by bills of interpleader
duly verified, filed by any casualty company, surety company, insurance company-or association or fraternal or beneficial society, and
averring that one or more persons who are bona fide claimants against
such company, association, or society resides or reside within the territorial jurisdiction of said court; that such company, association, or
society has in its custody or possession money or property of the value
of $500 or more, or has issued a bond or a policy of insurance or certificate of membership providing for the payment of $500 or more to
the obligee or obligees in such bond or as insurance, indemnity, or
benefits to a beneficiary, beneficiaries, or the heirs, next of kin, legal
representatives, or assignee of the person insured or member; that
two or more adverse claimants, citizens of different- States, are claiming to be entitled to such money or property or the penalty of such
bond, or to such insurance, indemnity, or benefits; that such company,
association, or society has deposited such money or property or has
paid the amount of such bond or policy into the registry of the court,
there to abide the judgment of the court.
"See. 2. In all such cases if the policy or certificate is drawn payable to the estate of the insured and has not been assigned in accordance with the terms of the policy or certificate the district court of
the district of the residence of the personal representative of the insured shall have jurisdiction of such suit. In case the policy or certificate has been assigned during the life of the insured in accordance
with the terms of the policy or certificate, the district court of
the district of the residence of the assignee or of his personal representative shall have jurisdiction. In case the policy or certificate is drawn payable to a beneficiary or beneficiaries and there has
been no such assignment as aforesaid the jurisdiction shall be in the
district cdurt of the district in which the beneficiary or beneficiaries
or their personal representatives reside. In case there are claimants
of such money or property, or in case there are beneficiaries under
any such bond or policy resident in more districts than one, then
jurisdiction shall be in the district court in any district in which a

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

National Fire Insurance Company and Hartford Fire
Insurance Company, Connecticut corporations, under policies issued to him, became indebted to W. D. Sanders,
resident of the Eastern District of Texas, for loss by fire
(July 3, 1927) of property located therein and part of his
homestead. Texas statutes exempt from execution the
proceeds of such insurance. The indebtedness of the two
insurers respectively was adjusted at $3400.00 and
$4250.00; these sums they agreed to pay. Both Companies were garnished in a foreign attachment proceeding
against Sanders instituted July 18, 19'27, in an Illinois
court by Armour Fertilizer Works, a corporation of that
State. This proceeding was based upon his notes which
undertook to waive homestead- and exemption rights.
The garnishees admitted liability to Sanders but gave
notice of his claim-that the proceeds of the policies were
exempt from garnishment under Texas laws. He did not
appear. After proper publication, judgment was entered
against him September 19, 1927. This sustained the attachment and awarded recovery against him in favor of
beneficiary or the personal representative of a claimant [sic] or a deceased claimant or beneficiary resides. Notwithstanding any provision
of Part I of this title to the contrary, said court shall have power to
issue its process for all such claimants and to issue an order of injunction against each of them, enjoining them from instituting or prosecuting any suit or proceeding in any State court or in any other Federal
court on account of such money or property or on such bond or on
such policy or certificate of membership until the further order of the
court; which process and order of injunction shall be returnable at
such time as the said court or a judge thereof shall determine and
shall be addressed to and served by the United States marshals for the
respective districts wherein said claimants reside or may be found.
"Sec. 3. Said court shall hear and determine the cause and shall
discharge the complainant from further liability; and shall make the
injunction permanent and enter all such other orders and decrees as
may be suitable and proper, and issue all such customary writs as may
be necessary or convenient to carry out and enforce the same."

SANDERS v. FERTILIZER WORKS.
190

Opinion of the Court.

the Fertilizer Works for the amount due upon the notes$7,589.81; also directed execution. It is in the margin. "
Before final trial in the Illinois court under their
answers, as permitted by the Act of May 8, 1926, the
Insurance Companies, claiming to be mere stakeholders,
filed separate interpleader proceedings in the District
Court, Eastern District of Texas--June 12, 1928. Sanders and Armour Fertilizer Works, alleged adverse claimants, were made defendants. The sums admitted to be
"' On motion of the plaintiff herein, the defendant, W. D. Sanders,
is ruled to appear herein instanter, and thereupon said defendant
being called in open court comes not, nor does anyone for said defendant, but herein said defendant makes default, and it appearing to
the court that said defendant was duly notified by publication of
notice according to law duly notifying said defendant of the pendency
of this suit and of the time required of said defendant to appear
herein, all of which was a sufficient number of days prior to the time
required of said defendant to appear as aforesaid to now require of
said defendant that said defendant either appear in this cause at this
time or that said defendant suffer judgment by default for want of
such appearance, and it further appearing to the court that said defendant is still in default of an appearance herein, it is, on motion of
the plaintiff, ordered by the court that default be entered herein
against said defendant for want of an appearance.
"And as to the damages sustained by the plaintiff herein, the court
hears the evidence contained in the affidavit of plaintiff's claim *filed
herein and finds therefrom that there is due to the plaintiff the sum
of money shown in said affidavit of claim to be due, and assessed the
plaintiff's damages at the sum of seven thousand, five hundred eightynine and 81/100 dollars ($7,589,81).
"This cause coming on for further proceedings herein, it is considered by the court that the attachment herein be and it hereby is sustained, that the plaintiff have judgment on the default and assessment
of damages herein, and that the plaintiff have and recover of and
from the defendant, W. D. Sanders, the damages of the plaintiff
amounting to the sum of seven thousand, five hundred eighty-nine
and 81/100 ($7,589.81) in form as aforesaid assessed, together with
the costs by the plaintiff herein expended and that execution issue
therefor."

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

due under the fire policies were paid into court. An injunction restrained the Armour Fertilizer Works from
proceeding further in the Illinois court. Answers by both
defendants followed. The causes were consolidated. The
District Court awarded the fund to Sanders; the Circuit
Court of Appeals held that it should go to Armour Fertilizer Works and reversed the trial court. National Fire
Ins. Co. v. Sanders, 33 F. (2d) 157; National Fire Ins.
Co. v. Sanders, 38 F. (2d) 213. Certiorari, granted upon
Sanders's petition, brings the matter here.
The facts are not in dispute. The parties agree that
the proceedings in Illinois were according to her statutes;
and that under the settled law there Sanders's claim of
exemption would have been denied and judgment given
against the garnishees if the cause had followed the
ordinary course.
The Circuit Court of Appeals overruled objections to
the jurisdiction of the District Court and affirmed the
latter's authority to consider and determine the rights
of the claimants.
It concluded that the Texas statutes did not control;
that the Act of May 8, 1926, was intended to afford protection to stakeholders, not to alter the rights of adverse
claimants; that the rights of each claimant under the law
of the State where they arose should be considered; and
that equitable principles commonly accepted in federal
courts should be applied.
It held that by the Illinois garnishment the money payable by the Companies to Sanders was sequestrated and
that this was good against his claim of exemption; that
the lien so obtained followed the fund paid into court.
And it directed that the Illinois judgment against him
should be satisfied. Upon the first hearing the District
Court dismissed the bill for lack of jurisdiction; the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. Judgment went for San-

SANDERS v. FERTILIZER WORKS.
190

Opinion of the Court.

ders on the second trial; the Circuit Court of Appeals
again reversed.
Objection to jurisdiction of the District Court is now
made upon the theory that the defendants are not adverse
claimants within the intendment of the interpleader Act
since one admits the attached debt is payable primarily
to the other and seeks to recover because of his indebtedness to it. The court below. adequately answered this
contention"We think that the facts in this case show that the
District Court is mistaken in concluding that the claims
of Armour and Sanders are not adverse. Each is claiming
the proceeds of the policies to the exclusion of the other.
Armour claims by virtue of its Illinois judgment against
Sanders and the attachment, and Sanders, while not disputing his obligation to Armour, claims the proceeds, notwithstanding, by virtue of the exemption under the laws
of Texas. The statute is remedial and to be liberally construed. It is broad enough to cover any adverse claims
against the proceeds of the policies, no matter on what
grbunds urged. Its terms are not to be interpreted as
meaning only adverse claims of those pretending to be
beneficiaries of the insured." [38 F. (2d) 214.]
The general purpose and effect of the Act of March 8,
1926, were also well stated below"Suits for interpleader in which actions in other courts
are enjoined were familiar to equity when the Constitution
was adopted [see Spring v. South Carolina Ins. Co., 8
Wheat. 268] and are one of the forms of controversy to
which, when arising between citizens of different States,
the federal judicial power was extended. The Act enlarges
the processes of the District Court to cover a broad territory, but otherwise authorizes only an ordinary form of
equitable relief. .... The District Court, of course, is
bound on an interpleader to give full faith and credit to

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

the garnishment proceedings in Illinois. Cooper v. Newell,
173 U.S. 567. . . . [63 F. (2d) 903.]
"We do not think the filing of the federal interpleader
and the payment thereunder of the money into the
District Court in Texas operated to bring it under, the
dominion of Texas law. The applicant for interpleader
often has a choice of forum, and he cannot at his will
subject the rights of the contesting claimants to one set of
laws rather than another. The purpose of the interpleader
statute was to give the stakeholder protection, but in nowise to change the rights of the claimants by its operation.
The interpleader is a suit in equityrand equitable princi-'
ples and procedure are the same throughout the federal
jurisdiction. The court is to weigh the right or title of
each claimant under the law of the State in which it arose,
and determine which according to equity is the better.
The decision should be the same whether the interpleader
is filed in Illinois or in Texas. No one's rights are intended
to be altered by paying the fund into the court, which
as an impartial neutral is to determine them." [63 F.
(2d) 906.]
Assertion by the complainant of entire disinterestedness is essential to a bill of interpleader. Groves,v. Sentell, 153 U.S. 465, 485. "In such a bill it is necessary to
aver that the complainant has no interest in the subjectmatter of the suit; he must admit title in the claimants
and aver that he is indifferent between them, and he
cannot seek relief in the premises against either of them."
Killian v. Ebbinghaus,110 U.S. 568, 571.
The situation here is unlike that presented where one
voluntarily subjects himself to its jurisdiction and seeks
the aid of a court to enforce his claim. See Story on Conflict of Laws (8th ed.) § 598. The Armour Fertilizer
Works asks nothing under any Texas law. Brought into
the District Court against its will it was held there against
its protest and enjoined from proceeding further in Illinois.

SANDERS v. FERTILIZER WORKS.
190

Opinion of the Court.

It now claims priority of right and only asks what it would
have secured but for the injunction. Under such circumstances, to hold that the statutes of Texas control would
destroy rights duly obtained in Illinois; would permit the
Insurance Companies by interpleader proceedings to
change the positions of defendants; and, in effect, seriously interfere with the impartial adjustment of existing equities. We think Congress had no intention to
permit such destruction of acquired rights, if indeed it had
power so to do.
By his answer Sanders thus stated his claim to the fund
in court"That by reason of the fact that the property which
was the subject of insurance covered by said insurance
policy was the homestead of the defendant, W. D. Sanders, the proceeds of the same which have been tendered
into court by the plaintiff herein are exempt to the defendant, W. D. Sanders, under the laws and Constitution
of the State of Texas, and his rights therein are superior
and prior to the rights of the defendant, Armour Fertilizer Works."
Armour Fertilizer Works asserted"On or about the 18th day of July, 1927, it filed -a suit
in the Municipal' Court of Chicago, Cook County, Illinois,
styled Armour Fertilizer Works, a corporation, trading as
the Planters Fertilizer and Chemical Company, versus
W. D. Sanders, being numbered 1,413,423. Said suit was
based upon, eight promissory notes upon which there was
due at that time, including principal, interest and attorney's fees, the sum of $7,589.81. That in connection
with said proceedings a writ of attachment and garnishment was issued out of said court, and was, on the 19th
day of July, 1927, served upon the plaintiff herein. That
the defendant W. D. Sanders was duly cited by publication, in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois,
to appear and answer said suit. Judgment was taken

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

against the said W. D. Sanders in said suit on September
19, 1927, for the sum of $7,589.81. That said case has
not been dismissed as between this defendant and the
plaintiff herein, garnishee in that suit. The judgment
rendered in said suit is a valid and binding judgment and
was procured in accordance with the laws of the State of
Illinois, and is a valid judgment against the defendant
W. D. Sanders to the extent of the funds impounded by
said garnishment. That under the terms of said judgment the said attachment and garnishment against the
plaintiff herein and against the defendant W. D. Sanders
was sustained and all matters in dispute and with reference to the funds involved herein, were and have been
judicially determined by said judgment."
We are not now primarily concerned with rights of a
garnishee. The Insurance Companies have paid their
debts and obtained complete discharge. Only Sanders
and the Armour Fertilizer Works are interested.
He presented claims against Connecticut corporations
arising under insurance contracts which he had not undertaken to enforce. These were free from execution in
Texas. He might have sued upon them in Illinois; there
they were subject to valid attachment.
The Armour Fertilizer Works, an Illinois corporation,
presented the judgment against Sanders duly rendered
by a court of that State in a proceeding properly begun
and prosecuted. It had secured a lien upon the claims
against the insurance Companies. There is no ground
for any claim of fraud. True, no final judgment had gone
against the garnishees; but as between Sanders and the
Fertilizer Works judgment stood against him; also, sequestration of the debts. The precise effect which would be
given this preliminary judgment, as against the garnishees,
in proceedings involving their rights may be doubtful,
but opinions by the Supreme Court of Illinois clearly
indicate that Armour Ferlitizer Works secured a lien

SANDERS v. FERTILIZER WORKS.
190

Opinion of the Court.

upon the Sanders claims; and that, but for the injunction,
final valid judgment would have gone against the Insurance Companies, accompanied by a lien good against all
the world.
The effect of the proceedings .in Illinois as against one
occupying the position of Sanders is plain enough under
her statutes and decisions. The Illinois courts would
have rejected his claim of exemption under the laws of
Texas. This view is affirmed here by agreement.
The Illinois rule is that garnishment imposes an inchoate lien subject to defeat by certain subsequent events,
none of which are present here. Also, that final judgment
in Illinois against the garnishee prior to one in another
jurisdiction is conclusive of the rights of the parties.
Lancashire Ins. Co. v. Corbetts, 165 Ill. 52; 46 N.E. 631;
Becker v. Illinois Central R. Co., 250 Ill. 40; 95 N.E. 42.
Also, "that property, real and personal, attached, and
funds in the hands of the garnishee, are placed on the
same footing,-that is, when attached, such property or
funds are appropriated from that time to the payment of
a certain class of judgment creditors specifically enumerated." Accordingly, the principal debtor may not assign
his claim against the garnished one after the writ has been
served upon the latter. National Bank of America v.
Indiana Banking Co., 114 Ill. 483, 489; 2 N.E. 401.
:Martinv. Dryden, 6 Ill. 187, declares-"Without a levy of the attachment, or the service of a
garnishee, the court has no jurisdiction to proceed, by
publication of notice, to render any judgment. But, by
the seizure of any estate or property of the defendant, or
the service by garnishment upon any having estate, property, or effects of his in their hands, the law has laid hold
of a fund, which it may condemn, and'appropriate to the
satisfaction of whatever judgment it may render against
the defendant, and thereupon the court proceeds to hear
as to the indebtedness. [p. 212] . . .

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

"These remarks and views apply also to the question
of lien. This specific appropriation of property must
amount to something as to those who may deal in relation to it; else the defendant could, at any time before
judgment, defeat the object of the party by a sale, and
possibly, even the jurisdiction of the court. We are of
opinion, that the attachment is a lien from the date of
the levy, when followed by a judgment, and which will
have relation back to it. This doctrine is sanctioned by
numerous authorities, which I will not review." [p. 213]
In the circumstances presented the proceedings in Ilinois gave to Arrmour Fertilizer Works a paramount right
or superior equity to the proceeds of the policies. To
hold that the District Court in Texas could enjoin the
Fertilizer Works from proceeding further and then declare
that because the last step in the Illinois suit had not been
taken Sanders, in some way, became entitled to priority,
plainly would be inequitable. Moreover, it would deny
to the garnishment proceedings the credit and effect
accorded them in the State where taken.
It is unnecessary to enter upon discussion of vexed questions arising out of garnishment proceedings in different
jurisdictions. The different views are well stated in
Minor on Conflict of Laws, §§ 125, 126, 209. This Court
has had occasion to consider the general subject in Cole
v. Cunningham, 133 U.S. 107; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. v.
-Sturm, 174 U.S. 710; King v. Cross, 175 U.S. 396; Harris
v. Balk, 198 U.S. 215, 223. The latter says"Notice to the debtor (garnishee) of the commencement of the suit, and notice. not to pay to his creditor, is
all that can be given, whether the garnishee be a mere
casual and temporary comer, or a resident of the State
where the attachment is laid. His obligation to pay to
his creditor is thereby arrested and a lien created upon the
debt itself. Cahoon -v. Morgan, 38 Vermont 234, 236;
National Fire Ins. Co. v. Chambers, 53 N.J.Eq. 468, 483.

SANDERS v. FERTILIZER WORKS.
190

Opinion of the Court.

We can see no reason why the attachment could not be
thus laid, provided the creditor of the garnishee could
himself sue in that State and its laws permitted the attachment."
Petitioner's argument proceeds upon the erroneous assumption that the money paid into court came under
the dominion of Texas law-especially her exemption
statutes. This view is not in harmony with the settled
law of Illinois that an attachment when levied on the
debtor fixes a lien upon the claim and prevents subsequent transfer by the creditor; also, with the reasoning
and conclusion in Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. v. Sturm,
supra.
The latter case-approved in King v. Cross, supra, and
Harris v. Balk, supra-held that garnishment proceedings pending in Iowa again-st a claim for wages due by
the Railway to a resident of Kansas, and there exempt
from execution, constituted good defense when the wage-,
earner subsequently sued the Railway in Kansas. It
approved the doctrine that debts accompany the debtor
and may be attached wherever he can be sued by his creditor. Among others, it cited with approval, National
Fire Ins. Co. v. Chambers, 53 N.J.Eq. 468; 32 Atl. 663.
It declared that the exemption law was no part of the
contract of employment and disapproved the notion that
when debts are exempt from execution in the State where
created this privilege follows as an incident into other
jurisdictions.
In National Fire Ins. Co. v. Chambers, supra, (an interpleader proceeding-1895) Vice Chancellor Pitney
elaborately discussed a situation substantially similar to
the one before us. After full review of the authorities,
he held that a pending garnishment prioceeding properly
instituted under the laws of Pennsylvania against indebtedness due to a resident of New Jersey created a lien
thereon and gave the attachiu'g creditor superior equity

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
CARDozo, J., dissenting.

292 U.S.

to one who claimed by transfer from the New Jersey
creditor. He applied the familiar principle that he who is
first in time is best in right. See also American Bank v.
Rollins, 99 Mass. 313, and Garity v. Gigie, 130 Mass. 184.
The record does not indicate that any other creditor
was interested in- the fund impounded in Illinois. The
court below rightly gave precedence to the claim of the
Fertilizier Works; also properly ruled that the controversy
should be terminated by a decree devoting the fund in
court to the Illinois judgment against Sanders.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo,

dissenting.

The federal court in Texas is under a duty, prescribed
by statute (R.S. § 905; 28 U.S.C. § 687; American Surety
Co. v. Baldwin, 287 U.S. 156, 166), to give full faith and
credit to judicial proceedings in Illinois, including proceedings under writs of garnishment or attachment.
Green v. Van Buskirk, 7 Wall. 139. This does not mean
that the proceedings are to have any greater effect than
they have by law or usage in the courts of Illinois. Robertson v. Pickrell, 109 U.S. 608, 610, 611; Ohio v. Chattanooga Boiler Co., 289 U.S. 439, 443. The duty is fulfilled if the force and efficacy are the same.
Garnishment in Illinois does not create a lien upon the
debt or chose in action subjected to the writ. Bigelow v.
Andress, 31. Ill. 322, 330, 332 (distinguishing Brashearv.
Wept, 7 Pet. 608, which was based upon a different statute); Gregg v. Savage, 51 Ill. App. 281, 284, aff'd, 150 Ill.
161; 37 N.E. 312; McElwee v. Wilce, 80 Ill. App. 338, 342.
In substance it is a monition whereby the defendant is
apprised that he will be acting at his peril if he makes a
voluntary payment to the original creditor, the peril consisting in this, that he may have to pay again. Bigelow v.
Andress, supra; Gregg v. Savage, supra;McElwee v. Wilce,

SANDERS v. FERTILIZER WORKS.
190

CARDozo, J., dissenting.

supra.' The writ has no effect upon involuntary payments
before the stage of judgment. Some other attaching creditor, suing the same defendant, may garnish the same debt
in another jurisdiction. The Illinois plaintiff, though the
first to have recourse to garnishment, will be postponed to
the other plaintiff who is first with execution. Lancashire
Ins. Co. v. Corbetts, 165 Ill. 592; 46 N.E. 631. Indeed, the
primary creditor, i.e., the debtor of the attaching plaintiff,
may bring suit against the garnishee in another jurisdiction, and collect the indebtedness if he wins the race to
judgment. Becker v. Illinois Central R. Co., 250 Ill. 40;
95 N.E. 42.2 The garnishment suit is in personam against
the debtor of a debtor (Harrisv. Balk, 198 U.S. 215), and
the res is not impounded till the compulsion of judgment
and execution has caused it to be paid. Then, but not
before, the garnishee will have protection against the hazard of conflicting claims. Cf. Harris v. Balk, supra;
Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Deer, 200 U.S. 176; B. & 0. R.
Co. v. Hostetter, 240 U.S. 620.
What has been written does not go beyond the law as
declared in Illinois. The fact is not ignored that there
are other jurisdictions in which the process of garnish1 "A garnishment is an attachment of the effects of the debtor in
the hands of the garnishee; creating no lien upon anything, but
holding the garnishee to a personal liability." Gregg v. Savage, supra.
The Illinois Supreme Court in that case did, it is true, refer to a
garnishment in Missouri as creating an "inchoate" lien, but coupled
the description with a ruling that the inchoate lien was not a charge
upon a cause of action elsewhere against the same defendant.
"By the service of the garnishee summons in Missouri, Miller [the
plaintiff in that action] acquired a contingent or inchoate lien upon
the debt, and appellant could not thereafter make a voluntary payment to the appellee; but the right which Miller acquired was
dependent upon subsequently acquiring judgment, and that was not
accomplished until a judgment had been recovered in this state,
where the debt was free from any right or claim that he had."
Becker v. Illinois Central R. Co., supra.

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
CARDOZO,

J., dissenting.

292 U.S.

ment receives a different meaning. Sometimes the service of the writ is held to impose upon the debt a fixed and
present lien which will have recognition and enforcement
everywhere. See, e.g., Embree v. Hanna, 5 Johns. 100;
Wallace v. McConnell, 13 Pet. 136; In re Ransford, 194
Fed. 658, 661; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Sturm, 174
U.S. 710. Sometimes the lien is spoken of as a quasi lien
or an inchoate one. See e.g., Focke v. Blum, 82 Tex. 436,
441; 17 S.W. 770; North Star Boot Co. v. Ladd, 32 Minn.
381, 383; 20 N.W. 334; In re Ransford, supra. Cf.
Becker v. Illinois Central R. Co., supra. In the conflict
of laws the difference may be important between realities
and metaphors, between the organism and the germ.
Sometimes the Illinois rule is accepted, and there is said
to be no lien, or one that does no more than restrain the
garnishee from making voluntary payments. See e.g.,
Commercial State Bank v. Pierce,' 176 Ia. 722; 158 N.W.
481; McGarry v. Lewis 'Coal Co., 93 Mo. 237; 6 S.W. 81;
Parker v. Farr, 2 Browne (Pa.) 331. Little is to be
gained by dilating upon these and like decisions, for they
are rooted in local laws or customs. Garnishment and
attachment today are statutory remedies. They are what
the state creating them declares that they shall be. It
is of no moment that Illinois might have made their efficacy greater as long as her legislature. and courts have
preferred to make them less.
In that state of the law the garnishee would have been
remiss if it had failed to shape its course with prudent
recognition of conflicting possibilities. Its indebtedness
'"The garnishment proceedings created'no lien upon any property
belonging to the original defendant, if any, in the hands of the garnishee. By the garnishment proceedings a personal claim was acquired against the garnishees to the extent of any money or property
that might be in their hands at the time the garnishment was ser:ed,
belonging to the judgment defendant." Commercial State Bank v.
Pierce, supra, at 732.

SANDERS v. FERTILIZER WORKS.
190

209

CAPwozo, J., dissenting.

to Sanders had been subjected to garnishment by the
Armour company in Illinois, but Sanders was threatening
it with suit in Texas. If Sanders had a judgment there
before Armour was in a position to issue execution in
Illinois, the garnishment in all likelihood would count
for nothing, yet there was a possibility even then of dispute and litigation. Plainly in the race for judgments
and its aftermath, there was the risk of expense and embarrassment, if not 'of double payment.
The garnishee in this dilemma paid the amount of the
indebtedness into the registry of the federal court in
Texas and had the rival claimants interplead. 28 U.S.C.,
§ 41 (26). The claimant Sanders was entitled to the
money unless the Armour company had a lien, and the
courts of Illinois had held there was no lien. True there
had been a judgment against Sanders, though not against
his codefendant, the insurer, but this judgment had been
obtained by default after service by publication, not followed by an appearance. It was therefore ineffective as a
judgment in personam, and in the absence of a lien did
not operate in rein. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U.S. 714; New
York Life Ins. Co.v. Dunlevy, 241 U.S. 518. The joinder
of Sanders had no effect except to give him notice of the
garnishment and an opportunity to come in, if he was so
minded, and contest the plaintiff's claiim Harris v. Balk,
supra, p. 27. He declined the invitation and preferred
to litigate at home. Whatever lien has been adjudged as
the result of his default was contingent upon the consummation of proceedings to charge the garnishee, and ended
when they lapsed, just as if the suit were discontinued. It
did not rise to the rank of a general interest in property,
adhering to the debt everywhere and qualifying the title
in another jurisdiction. Probably no one would contend
that by force of the judgment against Sanders a suit
could have been maintained by Armour as quasi owner
of the policies outside of Illinois. If that was so before

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

292 U. S.

the interpleader, it was even more plainly so thereafter.
By the express terms of the decree the stakeholder was
discharged when the fund was paid into the registry, 38 F.
(2d) 212, with the result that there was no longer the
possibility of pursuing the garnishee anywhere and thus
perfecting the attachment. If some inchoate incumbrance
had existed until then, it was then obliterated forever.
The fund was free and clear.
The federal court in Texas was thus driven to a choice
between a claimant with a foreign attachment which by
the law of its creation was of no extraterritorial validity
till it had ripened into payment under the compulsion of
a judgment, and a claimant whose title to the fund was
undisputed unless the lien of the attachment was presently
effective. It is not easy to see how there could be any
choice but one.
The decree of the Court of Appeals should be reversed
and that of the District Court affirmed.
-The

QHIEF JUSTICE, MR.JUSTICE BRANDEIS,

JUSTICE STONE

and MR.

join in this dissent.

AVERY v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 791 and 792.

Argued April 5, 1934.-Decided April 30, 1934.

Where dividends were declared payable on or before December 31st,

but, pursuant to the invariable practice and the purpose of the
corporation, were paid by checks so transmitted that they did not
and could not reach the shareholders until the first business day in
January of the following calendar year, held:
1. That, within the intendment of § 213 (a) of the Revenue
Act of 1924, and like provisions of the Act of 1928, such dividends
were "received " in the calendar years in which the checks were
received. P. 214.

