OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

292 U.S.

argued that such a provision contemplates a risk which
is comparatively slight and that therefore it should be
strictly construed. It may be that the insurer assumes
little additional risk; but the terms of the clause disclose
an inducement to insure set forth in attractive detail.'
The policy contains no exceptions exempting the insurer
from liability if the injury is caused by negligence of the
insured, or restricting the liability to accidents occurring
only after a point of safety has been reached, and the
steps of a car are specifically included in the place where
injury insured against may occur. Nothing in the policy
gives any hint that words in this clause are used more
narrowly than those in any other. The insurer has chosen
the terms, and it must be held to their full measure in
this clause, as in any other, whether its promise be for
more or less. London Guarantee & Accident Co. v. Ladd,
299 Fed. 562, 564; Cedergren v. Massachusetts Bonding
& Ins. Co., 292 Fed. 5, 8; Dolge v. Commercial Casualty
Ins. Co., 211 App. Div. 112, 207 N.Y.S. 42; Stewart v.
North American Acc. Ins. Co., 33 S.W. (2d) 1005 (Mo.
Reversed.
App.).
MONAMOTOR OIL CO. v. JOHNSON, TREASURER
OF IOWA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.

No. 555.

Argued March 7, 8, 1934.-Decided April 2, 1934.

1. Laws of Iowa, 42 General Assembly, c. 103, § 1, imposing an additional tax per gallon on motor vehicle fuel imported' and used

' Discussion of the double indemnity provisions from the standpoint
of risk and sales value may be'found in Sommer, Manual of Accident
and Health Insurance, 16, 84 et seq.; Hutcheson, Note on Double
Indemnity Clauses, 19 Transactions, Actuarial Society of America, 332.

MONAMOTOR OIL CO. v. JOHNSON
86

Syllabus.

within the State, held consistent with provisions of the Iowa constitution respecting title and substance of taxing laws. P. 93.
2. A State mdy impose a tax on the local use of gasoline imported
from without and collect it by requiring the importing distributor
to report the amounts of his importations, account to the State
for the corresponding taxes, as collecting agent of the State, and
pass on the tax burden to consumers by adding it to the selling
price. P. 93.
S. No unlawful burden on interstate commerce results from the circumstance that, in the application of this method of collection, the
distributor may make preliminary payments in respect of imported
gasoline which he intends at the time to export, or which he may
afterwards in fact export, from the State, where, as in this case,
he is entitled to a refund of such payments. P. 94.
4. The Iowa statute here involved obviously was not intended to
reach transactions in interstate commerce, but to tax the use of
motor fuel after it had come to rest in Iowa; and the requirement
that the distributor as the shipper into Iowa shall, as agent of the
State, report and pay the tax on the gasoline thus coming into the
State for use by others on whom the tax falls, imposes no unconstitutional burden either upon interstate commerce or upon the
distributor. P. 95.
5. A distributor of gasoline, in being required to prepay to the State
the taxes that are ultimately to be passed on to and paid by those
who buy the gasoline for local consumption as motor vehicle fuel,
is not himself taxed but is merely made a collecting agency, and
has no ground for alleging that he is deprived of equal protection
of the laws by a statutory provision under which the tax, when
paid on gasoline consumed for other uses, not taxed, is refunded
to the consumer by the State. P. 95.
6. Code of Iowa, c. 241-B1, § 4755-b38, laying an additional tax on
all motor fuel imported and used within the State, applies to gasoline manufactured within the State as well as to that which is
imported. P. 96.
7. One who has not sustained and is not threatened with injury
from a statute can not complain of an alleged discrimination arising
from it. P. 96.
8. Revocation without notice or hearing of a license to distribute
gascline, required by the Iowa law, held not a taking of property,
in the absence of any penalty for doing business unlicensed, and of
any threat of other injury to the licensee. P. 97.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

9. In a suit to restrain state officers from enforcing a taxing statute,
a federal court has no jurisdiction to enjoin the prosecution of a
prior action in a state court, for collection of taxes under such

statute. Jud. Code, § 265. P. 97.
3 F.Supp. 189, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, of three
judges, dismissing a bill seeking to restrain the Treasurer,
Attorney General, and other officials of the State of Iowa.
Questions under the State and Federal Constitutions were
involved and diverse citizenship was alleged.
Messrs. Paul E. Roadifer and M. D. Kirk, with whom
Messrs. George S. Wright and Addison G. Kistle were on
the brief, for appellant.
Mr. L. W. Powers, Special Assistant Attorney General
of Iowa, for appellees.
MR. JUsTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The appellant filed a bill in the District Court for
Southern Iowa, seeking a declaration that the laws of
Iowa laying a tax on motor vehicle fuel violate state and
federal constitutional provisions, and an injunction
against their enforcement by state officers. A temporary
injunction issued, but a court of three judges, upon final
hearing, dismissed the suit.Z The case is here on direct
appeal.
The general assembly of the State, in order to raise
revenue for the improvement of highways, imposed a
license fee of two cents per gallon on all motor vehicle
fuel "used or otherwise disposed of in this state for any
purpose whatsoever "; and directed that "Any person
using motor vehicle fuel within the state shall be liable for
the fee herein provided for unless the same shall have
'3 F.Supp. 189.

MONAMOTOR OIL CO. v. JOHNSON.
86

Opinion of the Court.

been previously paid." 2 By a later statute an additional
license fee of one cent per gallon was imposed." The law
defines " distributor" as "any person who brings into the
state or Who produces, refines, manufactures or compounds within the state any motor vehicle fuel to be used
within the state or sold or otherwise disposed of by him
within the state for use in the state." " Person" is defined to include partnerships, corporations and associations. One who sells at retail is required to keep posted
in a public place a placard showing the total sale price per
gallon, including license fee, and to have printed on the
placard the words "state license fee included." It is
declared unlawful to conduct the business of a distributor unless a certificate giving certain information is filed
with the state treasurer and a license is procured permitting the conduct of that business. Every distributor is
required on or before the twentieth day of each calendar
month to file with the state treasurer a report showing the
total number of gallons imported by. him during the preceding calendar month, with details as to each shipment,
and at the same time to remit to the treasurer the amount
of the license fee for such preceding month; he may, however, deduct three per cent. of the gallonage for evaporation and loss. If after the fee is remitted the fuel is
destroyed by casualty not due to the fault of the distributor, before being sold or used, a refund of the tax paid
'Laws of the 41st. General Assembly, Chapter 6, § 1, as amended
by laws of 42d General Assembly, Chapter 248, § 1; Code of Iowa
of 1931, Chapter 251-Al, § 5093-al.
" There is hereby levied on all motor vehicle fuel imported and
used within this state a license fee of one cent per gallon, 'Which shall
be in addition to the license fee levied by chapter 251-Al. All of the
provisions and conditions of said chapter 251-Al relating to the levy,
collection or payment of the license fee on motor vehicle fuel shall
apply with equal force to the license fee levied herein ... " Laws
of the 42d General Assembly, Ch. 103, § 1; Code of Iowa, 1931,
Chapter 241-B1, § 4755-b38.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Ccurt.

292 U.S.

thereon is to be made by the state treasurer. The act
declares that its provisions are not to apply to foreign or
interstate commerce. As distributors import gasoline
into Iowa for reshipment to other states, the state treasurer has, in the administration of the acts, permitted a
deduction in the monthly reports of any gasoline so sold
and reshipped to points outside the state.
There is provision that one using fuel purchased for
a purpose other than for a motor vehicle may, upon making claim upon the state treasurer in proper form and in
due time, obtain a refund of the amount of the tax paid
in respect of it.
A penalty of ten per cent. of the amount of the tax
is-imposed upon a distributor who fails to remit on or before the twentieth of the month following the importation. The attorney general is empowered to bring action
on behalf of the state against any distributor who is in
default for thirty days in payment Of tax. The state
treasurer is authorized to revoke the license of a distributor who fails to render the prescribed reports, or renders
a false report, or fails to pay the license fee when due, and
he need not renew the license until satisfied that the applicant will in future comply with the law. Distributors
are required to permit inspection of their books, records,
papers, invoices and equipment. It is made a misdemeanor for a distributor or any principal officer to refuse
to submit the prescribed reports and certificates to the
treasurer, or to refuse an examination of books, records
and equipment by the treasurer or his representatives, or
to violate other provisions.'
The appellant is an Arizona corporation whose business
is the buying, manufacturing, blending and selling of
gasoline and kindred products, including the importation
into Iowa of gasoline by tank cars, trucks and other con'Code of Iowa, 1931, Chapter 251-Al.

See also § 4755-b38.

MONAMOTOR OIL CO. v. JOHNSON.
86

Opinion of the Court,.

tainers, for resale to consumers and to dealers who sell to
consumers, and the exportation of gasoline to other states;
the maintenance of storage facilities in Iowa, from which
deliveries are made in that and other states, and the maintenance of a refinery at Carter Lake, Iowa, where gasoline
is blended and compounded and shipped to points in
Iowa and other states. Prior to April, 1932, gasoline was
refined at this plant. The corporation maintains numerous service stations in Iowa which sell to consumers.
Upon the filing of - certificate with the state treasurer
the company received a distributor's license; and between
May, 1927, and May, 1932, paid to the state treasurer
monthly, in accordance with the reports rendered, many
thousands of dollars as license fees. There was included
in the amount so reported and paid a tax at the rate of
three cents per gallon on gasoline imported into Iowa and
gasoline refined and manufactured at the refinery at Carter
Lake. No question seems to have been raised as to the
applicability and validity of the statute until about May,
1932. At that time a controversy arose out of the
following facts:
Carter Lake, Iowa, where the appellant's refinery is
located, now lies on the west shore of the Missouri River,
not far from Omaha, Nebraska. It was originally on the
east side of the river, the interstate boundary. By an
avulsion the stream changed its course to the east of
Carter Lake, but the old bed remained the interstate
boundary. The refinery ships large quantities of gasoline
to points in Nebraska and also to points in Iowa. The
question arising whether the appellant should report
gasoline which was ultimately distributed in Iowa upon
its arrival at Carter Lake, or its manufacture there, or
when it was shipped from Carter Lake to other points in
Iowa, the state treasurer and the appellant agreed that
importations into Carter Lake Deed not be treated as ima-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

portations into Iowa, but when gasoline arriving at Carter
Lake or there manufactured should be shipped to other
points in Iowa, it should be treated as then imported into
the state for the'purpose of report and payment of the tax
by the appellant. This arrangement was made for the
convenience of the parties.
Prior to May, 1932, the appellant shipped forty tank
cars of gasoline from the refinery at Carter Lake to destinations in Iowa., for sale and use there. Its employees
and agents altered the invoices and waybills on these shipments so as to show "gas-oil" instead of gasoline and
omitted to report them to the state treasurer, or to pay
tax upon them, as should have been done in accordance
with the arrangement mentioned. When the state treasurer called appellant's attention to the falsification of its
reports the representatives of the company for the first
time asserted that as gasoline moving from Carter Lake
to other points in Iowa had to pass through Nebraska the
shipments were interstate, and a tax on them would be.a
burden upon interstate connerce. The state treasurer,
having confirmed the facts by an audit of the company's
books, caused the appellant and certain of its officers to be
indicted for making a false rturn, procured the attorney
general to bring a civil action against the appellant by attachment to recover the unpaid tax on gasoline imported
'and used within the state, and notified the appellant that
he had revoked its license as a distributor. The individual defendants pleaded guilty and were fined, and the
indictment was dismissed, as to the company. The civil
suit was pending when the present bill was filed, asserting
the invalidity of the law, and praying that the state treasurer and other officials be enjoined from interfering with
the conduct of appellant's business as a distributor, from
collecting the taxes imposed by the statutes, and from
prosecuting the civil action in the state court.

MONAMOTOR OIL CO. v. JOHNSON.
86

Opinion of the Court.

The district court, whose jurisdiction was invoked by
reason of diversity of citizenship as well as the alleged
conflict of the state statutes and the federal constitution,
dismissed the bill. The decision is challenged for several
reasons, but we are of opinion that it was proper.
1. The amendatory act by which an additional tax of
one cent per gallon was imposed is said to violate provisions of the Iowa constitution respecting the title and
the substance of taxing laws. -The district court examined these contentions and found them without merit.
We concur in its conclusions.
2. There is no substance in the claim that the statutes
impose a burden. upon interstate commerce, contrary to
the prohibition of Article I, § 8 of the Federal
Constitution. The appellant insists that the tax is a
direct tax on motor vehicle fuel imported. The court
below concluded that the law laid an excise upon the
use of fuel for the propulsion of vehicles on the highways
of the state. The state officials have administered the
tax on this theory. We think this the correct view. The
levy is not on property but upon a specified use of property. Altitude Oil Co. v. People, 70 Colo. 452; 202 Pac.
180; Standard Oil Co. v. Brodie, 153 Ark. 114; 293 S.W.
753. It is not laid upon the importer for the privilege of
.importing (compare Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419;
Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U.S. 642, 647), but
falls on the local use after interstate commerce has ended.
Compare Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton, 262 U.S. 506; Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 288 U.S. 249;
Edelman v. Boeing Air Transport, Inc., 289 U.S. 249.
The statute in terms imposes the tax on motor vehicle
fuel used or otherwise disposed of in the state. Instead
of collecting the tax from the user through its own officers,
the state makes the distributor its agent for that purpose.
This is a common and entirely lawful arrangement. Cit-

94

OCTOBER TERM, 1,933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

izens National Bank v. Kentucky, 217 U.S. 443, 454;
Pierce Oil Corp. v. Hopkins, 264 U.S. 137; Standard Oil
Co. v. Brodie, supra; Standard Oil Co. v. Jones, 48 S.D.
482; 205 N.W. 72. The distributor who reports the gasoline and pays the tax is required to pass the burden on to
the consumer, who is advised that in addition to the price
of the gasoline he is paying a license fee to the state. To
prevent evasion the distributor must pay and pass on
the tax on all gasoline imported or distributed, irrespective of its ultimate use; but as some purchasers employ
the gasoline for a purpose other than the propulsion of a
motor vehicle, and as the burden of the tax has been
passed on to them as well as those who desire a motor
fuel, provision is made for a refund to the former. Since
the law declares that the levy is only upon use of motor
vehicle fuel in the state, and the intent is not, to affect
interstate commerce, the state treasurer properly permits
distributors to deduct as a credit from the gasoline returned
as imported into the state in any calendar month, that
which has been exported from the state by the distributor.
Thus gasoline passing through the state to reach its ultimate destination is exempt. It is of course true that as the
report is required on the twentieth of the calendar month
for transactions of the preceding month, there may at
times be gasoline received in the month covered by the
report which has not been exported by the twentieth
of the succeeding month; but the distributor is entitled
to a credit for such exportation in his report made in
the next month, and the mere fact that he cannot claim
an anticipatory credit for gasoline not yet exported, but
intended so to be, seems to us to be too slight a burden
to be of any moment, or to raise a substantial constitutional question.
The appellant, however, says that the state officials
have required it to report and to pay tax on shipments
made from Oklahoma direct to dealers in Iowa who are

MONAMOTOR OIL CO. v. JOHNSON.
86

Opinion of the Court.

appellant's customers, and that in respect of such transactions the burden on interstate commerce is obvious. But

if the gasoline so imported is intended to be used in Iowa
for motor, vehicle fuel it is subject to the tax. If it is
not so used by the appellant's customer, or by the purchaser at retail, either may obtain a refund of the tax collected by the appellant and remitted to the state. The
statute obviously was not intended to reach transactions
in interstate commerce, but to tax the use of motor fuel
after it had come to rest in Iowa, and the requirement that
the appellant as the shipper into Iowa shall, as agent of
the state, report and pay the tax on the gasoline thus
coming into the state for use by others on whom the tax
falls imposes no unconstitutional burden either upon
interstate commerce or upon the appellant.
3. The method of imposition and collection of the tax
does not deny the equal protection of the laws guaranteed
by the XIV Amendment. Complaint is made of several
features of the law which are said to create arbitrary discriminations. Appellant first says that as it must pay
to the state a tax of three cents on every gallon of gasoline
imported, whereas the user who employs the gasoline purchased for some other purpose than motor fuel may obtain
a refund of the tax paid in respect of the fluid so used, the
law attempts to impose a tax on the distributor for the
benefit of persons who buy or use gasoline for some purpose other than the operation of a motor vehicle on the
highways, and that the result is the imposition on the
distributor of a tax for the benefit of this other class of
persons.
The shqrt answer to the contention is that the statutes
properly construed lay no tax whatever upon distributors,
but make of them mere collectors from users of motor
vehicle fuel, and refund the tax only to that class of users
upon whom no excise is intended to be laid. The distribu-

OCTOBER TERM. 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

tor does not pay the tax; the user does. It cannot therefore be said that any tax is laid upon the appellant in
ease of another class of taxpayers.
The amendatory act, levying an additional cent per
gallon, is said to discriminate against the appellant because if gasoline were distilled or manufactured in Iowa
it would escape taxation, since the amendatory statute
refers only to gasoliiie "imported and used" within the
state. This statute is, however, an amendment or supplement to the earlier act taxing use and disposition of
gasoline for motor fuel (see State v. Northern Iowa Oil
Co., 209 Iowa 980; 229 N.W. 214), embodies by reference
provisions of the earlier law (see Note 3, supra) and, as
the District Court held, is, therefore, to be construed to
cover gasoline whether imported or manufactured within
the state. It appears, moreover, that no gasoline is or
has been distilled or manufactured in Iowa except that
which was distilled or manufactured by appellant prior
to April 1, 1932. Since that date the appellant has not
distilled or manufactured gasoline within the state. The
appellant is not in a position to complain of any alleged
discrimination arising from the terms of the statute, since
it has not sustained injury and none is threatened which
can affect it.
It is asserted that naphtha imported into Iowa and
blended may escape the tax on the ground that it is not
motor vehicle fuel imported into Iowa. The evidence,
however, discloses that the officers charged with the administration of the law are insisting that the tax should
be paid on naphtha so imported and blended and in fact
are now prosecuting a suit against another defendant on
this theory. No reason appears why, even if such naphtha
were held free of tax, this would constitute an unfair
discrimination against appellant, which is required to
collect from users the tax on gasoline.

MONAMOTOR OIL CO. v. JOHNSON.
86

Opinion of the Ccurt.

4. The revocation of the appellant's license by the state
treasurer without notice and hearing did not deprive it of
property without due process in violation of the XIV
Amendment. Whether in other circumstances the license
contemplated by the statutes under consideration might be
considered property within the protection of the due process clause we need not determine. It is sufficient in this
case. to advert to the undisputed facts disclosed by the
record. The law imposes no penalty for conducting the
business of a distributor without a license; the only penalties mentioned are for failure to report gasoline intended
for use in the state, and to pay the tax. The state officers
have not sought to prevent the appellant from continuing
its business as a distributor, and have in this proceeding,
both by answer and by evidence, avowed their purpose to
take no further action against the appellant, either criminal or civil, until the conclusion of the civil suit now
pending in a state court to recover the tax, the failure to
pay which was the ground of revocation of the appellant's
license. The State's officials are prosecuting the action as
a test suit. There is therefore no threat of immediate
harm as a result of the revocation of the license, and the
action of the state treasurer in revoking it cannot affect
the pending civil suit or any other action civil or criminal
which may hereafter be brought.
5. By its bill the appellant asked an injunction against
the further prosecution of the action at law in the state
court forthe failure to report and to pay tax on certain
gasoline. The court below pointed out that § 265 of the
Judicial Code (U.S.C. Tit. 28, § 379) forbids the granting
of this prayer, and the appellant admitted at the bar that
it could not have such relief and did not insist upon it.
We find no error in the decision of the district court,
and its judgment must be
Affirmed.

