LEE v. BICKELL.
398

Syllabus.

of judicial power in the absence of the affiliated sellers is
the determination, of the expenses to be borne by the
consuming public.
There being error in the reduction of the appellant's
operating expenses by the refusal to make provision for
replenishing the wasting assets of its affiliated companies, the decree is reversed and the cause remanded
to the Supreme Court of Ohio for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE, MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER
concur in the result.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE SUTHER-

LAND took no part in the consideration or decision of this
case.

LEE, COMPTROLLER, v. BICKELL, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE 'DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE- NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 944.

Argued May 10, 1934.-Decided May 21, 1934.

1. Equity jurisdiction exists to enjoin numerous and repeated impositions of an unlawful tax for which redress at law would entail a
multiplicity of actions. P. 421.
2. In a suit in the federal court to enjoin the imposition of stamp
taxes on documents connected with the transactions in a broker's
office, the jurisdictional amount consists of the taxes claimed by
the taxing authority and resisted by the complainant. P. 421.
3. The tax imposed by Laws of Florida, 1931, c. 15,787, on memoranda of sales or deliveries of stock, relates to the memorandum in
prescribed form which must be executed by the seller in case of an
agreement to sell or where a transfer is executed by delivery of the
ceriificate assigned in blank-a memorandum to be handed by the
seller to the buyer as an evidence of the contract or as a muniment
of title. P. 421.

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Counsel for Parties.

292 U.S.

4. As to purchases and sales of stock made on an exchange in another State for Florida customers through brokers having a branch
office in Florida, this statute does not intend that tax stamps shall
be affixed to telegrams announcing such transactions sent from
the main office and received in and reduced to writing in
the Florida office, or to copies of such telegrams delivered by the
branch office to the customer; or to receipts signed in Florida by
the customer when shares purchased for his account in the other
State are sent to him directly from the main office; or to receipts
delivered by the branch office to the customer for certificates to be
sold; or to written orders to sell delivered by the customer to the
branch. P. 422.
5. An order to sell securities delivered by a customer to a broker is
not an agreement to sell. P. 424.
6. When this Court sustains an injunction against a state tax as
unauthorized by a state statute, without passing upon objections
to it raised under the Federal Constitution, the decree should be
so framed that the case may be reopened if it should appear that
the state supreme court has construed the statute as applicable. P. 425.
Affirmed with modification.

APPEAL from a final decree of the District Court, constituted of three judges, enjoining the Comptroller of the
State of Florida from enforcing a statute for the levy and
collection of stamp taxes. For the opinion of the court
below accompanying the granting of an interlocutory
injunction, see 5 F. Supp. 720.
Messrs. J. V. Keen and H. E. Carter, Assistant. Attorneys General of Florida, with whom Mr. Cary D. Landis,
Attorney General, and Mr. Robert J. Pleus, Assistant
Attorney General, were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Charles A. Carroll, with whom Messrs. Frank B.
Shutts and Crate D. Bowen were on the brief, for
appellees.

LEE v. BICKELL.
415

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The appellees, complainants in the court below, have
brought this suit against the appellant, the Comptroller
of the State of Florida, to restrain the enforcement of a
Florida statute for the levy and collection of stamp taxes
upon the documents described in the bill of complaint.
Their contention has been and is that the statute,
properly construed, -does not apply to the transactions
stated in the bill, and that, if so applied, it is in conflict
with the due process and commerce provisions of the
Constitution of the United States. Amendment XIV;
Art. I, § 8.
A District Court of three judges granted an interlocutory injunction, 5 F.Supp. 720, which thereafter was made
permanent. The case is in this court upon an appeal
by the state Comptroller. Judicial Code, § 266;
28 U.S.C., § 380.
The Florida statute (Chapter 15,787, Laws of Florida,
1931) imposes a stamp tax upon all bonds or certificates
of indebtedness issued in Florida; upon each original
issue of certificates of stock; and upon all sales of stock or
certificates of stock, agreements to sell, memoranda of
sales or deliveries, or transfers of title, the stamps to be
placed upon the certificates if the assignment of the certificate is to a person named therein, and upon a written
memorandum which the seller is required to execute and
deliver to the buyer if there is either an agreement to sell
or a transfer of title by delivery of a certificate assigned
in blank. The provisions of the statute so far as material
are printed in the margin.'
"On

all sales, agreements to sell, or memoranda of sales or de-

liveries of, transfers of legal title to shares, or certificates of stock
or profits or interest in property or accumulations in any corpora-

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

The appellees are stockbrokers engaged in business in
the City of New York with branch offices in Florida.
Orders to buy or sell received from Florida customers are
transmitted by the Florida branches, and are executed in
New York in accordance with the customs of the Stock
Exchange. The Comptroller does not contend that any
document signed by the brokers in New York is subject
to the tax. To the contrary there is a concession that the
stamp taxes applicable to such transactions are those
imposed by the New York statute (New York Tax Law,
§ 270) and by a statute of the United States (26 U.S.C.
§ 901 [3]), which are substantially the same as the stamp
tax law of Florida. What the Comptroller contends is
this, that after the transaction is executed in New York,
where certificates and memoranda are stamped under the
New York and federal statutes, there are certain supplementary papers, copies of the original memoranda, or
receipts, or entries in the books, which are signed by the
managers or employes of the Florida branches, or on occation, or to rights to subscribe for or to receive such shares or certificates, whether made upon or shown by the books of the corporation,
or by any assignment in blank, or by any delivery, or by any paper
or agreement or memorandum or other evidence of transfer or sale,
whether entitling the holder in any manner to the benefit of such stock
interests, rights, or not, on each $100.00 of face value or fraction
thereof 100; and where such shares are without par or face value,
the tax shall be 10¢ on the transfer or sale or agreement to sell on
each share: Provided, that in case of sale, where evidence of transfer
is shown only by the books of the corporation, the stamps shall be
placed upon such books of the corporation; and where the change
of ownership is by transfer of the certificate, the stamps shall be
placed upon the certificates; and in case of an agreement to sell or
where the transfer is made by delivery of the certificate assigned in
blank, there shall be made and delivered by the seller to the buyer
a bill or memorandum of such sale, to which the stamp shall be
affixed; and every bill or memorandum of sale or agreement to sell
before mentioned, shall show the date thereof, the name of the seller,
the amount of the sale. and the matter or things to which it refers."

LEE v. BICKELL.
415

Opinion of the Court.

sion by the customers. These, it is said, are memoranda
of sales or deliveries within the meaning of the Florida
statute. A tax is also claimed where a written order for
the sale of shares is signed by a Florida customer and
delivered to the Florida agent for transmission to the
central office.
The application of the statute to these and similar situations will be determined more easily when the course of
business, first in respect of purchases, and next in respect
of sales, has been traced in greater detail. What that
course of business is appears very clearly from the
stipulated facts.
Upon the transmission to New York of an order for the
purchase of shares of stock and after the execution of the
order upon the floor of the Exchange, the buying and
selling brokers sign and exchange what is known as an
"exchange contract." There is no contention by the
Comptroller that this is taxable in Florida. When the
shares are delivered, the rules call for the exchange of
what is known as a "sales ticket," a. memorandum of
the transaction, which bears the stamps required by the
Federal Stamp Tax Act and by the statute of New York.
26 U.S.C. § 901 (3); New York Tax Law, § 270. There
is no contention that the sales ticket is taxable in Florida. After the execution of the order, the New York
office reports the transaction by telegraph over its private wire to the Florida branch, where an employe receives the telegram and reduces it to writing. This copy
according to the contention of the Comptroller is a
memorandum of sale within the meaning of the Florida
statute, and must be stamped accordingly. Another copy
of the telegram is commonly, but not invariably, delivered by the branch office to the customer. This too is
claimed by the Comptroller to be a taxable memorandum,
though a stamp is not required if one has been affixed to
the copy retained for the office files. In addition to the

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

telegraphic notice to its Florida representatives, the New
York office follows the practice of sending notice of the
purchase by mail directly to the customer. No stamp
is required for this notice, which is signed and transmitted
in New York. Finally when the purchase has been
completed by delivery, there are times when the New
York office, instead of holding the certificates for the
account of its Florida customer, forwards them to him
by registered mail. When this is done a form of receipt
is enclosed, which the customer is asked to' sign. The
Comptroller contends that this receipt, if signed in
Florida, is subject to a stamp tax as a memorandum of
delivery.
The course of dealing upon an order for the sale of
shares does not differ in essentials, so far as the present
subject of inquiry is concerned, from that upon an order
to buy. By concession the "exchange contracts," and the
"sales tickets" are not taxable in Florida. Taxes are
claimed, however, upon the telegraphic report of the
sale when written out by employes in the Florida office
or by them transmitted in writing to the Florida customer. Taxes are claimed also when the Florida branch
delivers a receipt to the customer for certificates to be
sold, or receives a written order to sell, the theory being
that this last is an agreement to sell within the meaning
of the statute.
If stamp taxes due in connection with any of these
memoranda are not affixed when payable, they must be
affixed, in the view of the Comptroller, to the corresponding entry upon the books of account, but the tax is
payable only once in respect of the same transaction,
duplicate documents or entries being held to be exempt.
The failure to pay the tax by affixing and cancelling
stamps of the prescribed value is declared to be a crime
and is punishable accordingly.

LEE v. BICKELL.
415

Opinion of the Court.

Upon these facts the District Court held that the complainants, who were nonresidents of Florida, were without
an adequate remedy at law, and that the threatened acts
of the Comptroller- if illegal, should be restrained by a
court of equity. As to this we are not in doubt, the
multiplicity of actions necessary for redress at law being
sufficient, without reference to other considerations, to uphold the remedy by injunction. Wilson v. Illinois Southem Ry. Co., 263 U.S. 574; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U.S. 44,
62. The taxes claimed by the Comptroller and resisted by
the complainants exceed the amount necessary to sustain
the federal jurisdiction. Several hundred transactions are
affected every day.
The District Court held also (1) that the writings
signed in Florida were not agreements or memoranda of
sale or delivery within the meaning of the Florida statute; and (2) that the effect of a different construction
would be to bring the statute into conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment. The two grounds are not sharply
separated in the opinion of the District Court, the second
being brought in to reinforce the first. We propose in
what follows to keep them distinct.
First. The evidence drawn from the wording of the
statute combines with the administrative interpretation of
like statutes in other jurisdictions and with the practical
interpretation of this one for nearly two years in Florida
to exclude the transactions from the operation of the tax.
The scheme of the statute is to tax the transfer of shares
of stock, whether executory or executed, by stamps to be
affixed to those writings, and those only, which in a practical sense are the repository of the agreement or the instruments or vehicles for the ensuing change of title.
Thus, if a transfer has been made and the only evidence of
its making is on the books of the corporation, it is on such
books and no where elsethat the stamps are to be placed.

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

The statute does not say or mean that they shall be placed
also upon the memoranda of the transaction in the office
of the brokers or that there shall be an election to affix
them either at one place or the other. Again, "if the
change of ownership is by transfer of the certificate" to a
stated assignee, it is on the certificate and no where else
that the stamps are to be placed. Only in two classes of
cases is a different rule prescribed. "In case of an agreement to sell" (as distinguished from an executed transfer)
"or where the transfer is made by delivery of the certificate assigned in blank," then a memorandum in a prescribed form must be executed by the seller, and this
prescribed memorandum is the one to be stamped. In
brief, the memorandum of sale -or delivery to be taxed
under the statute is not every note or entry made in Florida recording a transaction elsewhere. It is the kind of
note or entry exacted by the statute where there is an
executory agreement or a transfer by delivery, a note or
entry to be handed by the seller to the buyer as an evidence of contract or as a muniment of title. If another
view were to prevail, the tax could be multiplied repeatedly as the product of the same transaction. Not only the
first memorandum would be taxable, but every copy of a
copy, and every entry of the transaction in one book or
in many. There is significance in the unwillingness of the
Comptroller to press his claim so far. Refusing to concede
that he is not at liberty under the statute to tax as many
entries as he can find, he has none the less chosen in the
administration of his office to tax the same transaction
only once. The choice supplies agloss upon the intention
of the law makers. It is an illuminating token that the
memoranda to be taxed are the mandatory memoranda
only, the customary sales tickets of the brokers, tickets
subject to a tax in Florida if ancillary to a transaction
consummated there, but free from that burden if signed
and delivered somewhere else. In this instance the sales

LEE v. BICKELL.
415

Opinion of the Court.

tickets were ancillary to a transaction consummated in

New York, were signed and delivered in that state, and
when signed and delivered carried stamps in the amount
required by the laws of New York and the laws of the
United States. We perceive nothing in the law of Florida
indicative of a purpose that other memoranda, not the
repository of the contract nor exchanged between the
paties, should be subject to a tax anywhere.
One finds it hard, indeed, to see how the collection of
the tax would be workable as an administrative problem
if a broker were free to choose between stamping his own
copy of a document and stamping the duplicate delivered
as a memorandum to his customer. The taxing officials
could never learn through an inspection of the files
whether the mandate of the statute had been followed or
ignored. One of the major merits of a stamp tax is to
make the evidence of payment visible and almost automatic. That.benefit is lost if the collector is uncertain
whether the document to be stamped is on the files of the
taxpayer or in the possession of another. A court will
be' slow to hold that the lawmakers had in.view a method
of collection so awkward and unwieldy. To tax every
copy may be oppressive. To tax any one of them indifferently is ineffective. The intention of the lawmakers
was to tax a particular set of documents identified with
certainty.
Like statutes outside of Florida have had administrative
interpretation pointing to a like conclusion. By § 270 of
the Tax Law of New York, a stamp tax is imposed upon
"all sales, or agreements to sell, or memoranda of sales
and all deliveries or transfers of shares or certificates of
stock . . . in any domestic or foreign association, company or corporation . . . whether made upon or shown

by the books of the association, company, corporation or
trustee, or by any assignment in blank, or by any delivery, or by any paper or agreement or. memorandum or

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

other evidence of sale or transfer, whether intermediate or
final. . . ." The Attorney General of New York has
ruled that this statute does not apply to an assignment in
blank in New York for delivery to a purchaser in Canada
under a sale previously executed upon a Canadian exchange. Opinions of Attorney General 1928, p. 125. Cf.
People ex rel. Hatch v. Reardon, 110 App. Div. (N.Y.)
821, 832, 97 N.Y.S. 535; aff'd 184 N.Y. 431, 77 N.E. 970;
204 U.S. 152. By a statute of the United States, Revenue Act of 1926, § 800, schedule A, subd. 3 as amended
by the Revenue Acts of 1928 and 1932, 26 U.S.C. § 901
(3), a stamp tax is imposed upon sales or memoranda
in almost the same words as those of the New York statute. Regulation No. 71, Article 36, of the Bureau of
Internal Revenue, makes it clear that only the mandatory memorandum is required to bear a stamp. See also
Article 35. Finally in Florida itself, the very statute now
in controversy was ruled by the appellant's predecessor
in the office of Comptroller to be inapplicable to these
transactions or to others not to be distinguished. Counsel
for the appellees, uncertain as to his clients' duty, put
the case to the Comptroller, and received a favorable ruling. For nearly two years the statute was so administered till the present appellant, reaching out, it seems,
for new sources of public revenue, found or thought he
had found the evidence of an intention to tax a copy
made in Florida of a memorandum in New York.
A word must be said in response to the suggestion that
an order to sell, delivered by a customer in Florida to the
manager of a Florida branch, is an agreement to sell, and
therefore subject to the tax. Clearly, we think it is
nothing of the kind. It is a grant of authority by customer to broker, by principal to agent, revocable till executed, like agencies in general. There was no agreement
to sell till the selling broker and the buying one came to-

LEE v. BICKELL.
415

Opinion of the Court.

gether on the floor of the stock exchange in New York,
and made a contract there.
The directive force of all these signposts of intention
is little less than irresistible when the series is viewed
together. The meaning ascribed to the statute by the
judges of the court below gives it coherence and simplicity.
The meaning read into it by the Comptroller splits it into
jarring fragments, one a plan for the taxation of the operative documents, all executed in one place, and the
other a plan for the taxation of casual reports and copies,
executed in another. These plans, to be sure, might be
held to coexist if the purpose to combine them were unmistakably disclosed, yet disclosure short 6f that would be
too weak to make the combination plausible. The
Florida decisions tell us that doubts, if nicely balanced,
will be resolved in favor of the taxpayer. State ex rel.
Packard v. Cook, 108 Fla. 157; 146 So. 223; State ex rel.
Rogers v. Sweat, 112 Fla. 797; 152 So. 432; cfi Burnet
v. Guggenheim, 288 U.S. 280, 286. There is little need to
summon to our aid that. canon of construction invoked
by the complainants. The meaning of the statute as we
read it is too plain to be swayed by favor or disfavor
for one class or another.
Second. The taxation of the documents being without
warrant in the statute, there is no duty to determine
whether the Constitution would be infringed if the meaning were something else. As to that we do not indicate
an opinion, even by indirection. It will be soon enough
to set a value upon the arguments of counsel when a statute is before us that requires us to choose between them.
At the same time the parties to the controversy should
have adequate protection in the possible contingency of
a decision by the state Supreme Court at variance with
ours in respect of the meaning of the statute, a meaning
that will then be declared with ultimate authority.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

292 U.S.

Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co. v. Nelson Mfg. Co.,
291 U.S. 352. There should be an appropriate opportunity in such circumstances to terminate or modify the
restraints of the decree. There should also be an opportunity to renew the litigation in respect of the issue of
constitutional validity, now held to be irrelevant. The
reservations proper to that end will follow the practice
indicated in Glenn v. Field Packing Co., 290 U.S. 177,
and Wald Transfer & Storage Co. v. Smith, 290 U.S. 602.
In conformity with those decisions, the decree will be
modified by striking therefrom any conclusion of law or
other adjudication as to the validity of the Documentary
Stamp Tax Act of Florida under the Constitution of the
United States, and by adding a provision, that the parties
to the suit or any of them may apply at any time to the
court below, by bill or otherwise, as they may be advised,
for a further order or decree, in case it shall appear that
the statute has been then construed by the highest court of
Florida as applicable to the transactions in controversy
here. With this modification the decree will be affirmed.
Decree modified and affirmed.
W. B. WORTHEN CO. ET AL. v. THOMAS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 856.

Submitted May 2, 1934.-Decided May 28, 1934..

1. Plaintiff rebovered a judgment for the payment of money upon a
contract and garnished a life insurance company which owed the
defendant upon a policy on the life of her deceased husband. The
garnishment became a lien. After this, the legislature enacted a law
exempting from judicial process the proceeds of life insurance
policies payable to residents of the State; and the state courts
construed the statute so as to vacate the lien of the garnishment and
exempt the fund from judicial process. Held that as applied to
plaintiff's contract the statute was void under the contract clause of
the Constitution. P. 431.

