ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
337

Syllabus.

raneous construction by the administrative officers; and,
no circumstance indicating the contrary, this establishes
his purpose to surrender the contract as he properly could
have done.
We are of opinion there is enough to show abandonment of the contract by the assured and upon- that ground
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be
affirmed.
After expiration of the first enlistment, neither party
to the contract appears to have treated as operative the
authorization for deductions contained in the application.
Zimmerman accepted every month during a considerable
period the full amount due him; made no effort to provide for payment of premiums when he must have been
aware that no deduction had been made. There is nothing to indicate that he did not have full possession of his
faculties or lacked intelligence or probity, or that he was
unaware of the important circumstances. If he had supposed the insurance remained in effect, common honesty
would have moved him to provide for actual payment of
the premiums. He must have known they had not been
met. In the circumstances his conduct, we think, adequately indicates the exercise of his right to abandon the
policy. See Sawyer v. United States, 10 F. (2d) 416;
United States v. Barry, 67 .F. (2d) 763; contra, Unger v.
United States, 65 F. (2d) 946.
The challenged judgment must be
Affirmed.

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA ET

AL.

MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE BILL TO PERPETUATE TESTIMONY.

No. -,

original.

Return to Rule to Show Cause Presented April 2,

1934.-Decided May 21, 1934.
1. This Court may entertain a bill to perpetuatle testimony in aid
of future litig'tion within its origin:d jurisdiction. P. 347.

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

292 U. S.

2. The sole purpose of such a suit is to perpetuate the testimony;
and in order to sustain the bill it must appear that the facts which
the plaintiff expects to prove by the testimony of the witnesses
sought to be -examined will be material to the determination of
the matter in controversy; that the testimony will be competent
evidence; that depositions of the witnesses can not be taken and
perpetuated in the ordinary methods prescribed by law, because
the then condition of the suit (if one is pending) renders it impossible, or (if no suit is then pending) because the plaintiff is not in
a position to start one in which the issue may be determined; and
that taking of the testimony on bill in equity is made necessary
by the danger that it may be lost by delay. P. 347.
3. Arizona asked leave to file a bill to perpetuate the testimony of
persons who took part in the formulation of the "Colorado River
Compact," apportioning the waters of the Colorado River, which
was adopted by. all the States embracing the water-shed of that
river, except Arizona, and was approved, subject to certain limitations and conditions, by the Act of Congress of December 21, 1928,
known as the Boulder Canyon Project Act (See 283 U.S. 423).
By the bill she claimed that § 4 (a) of the Act, imposing limitations on the use of water by California, was intended for the
benefit of Arizona; that § 4 (a) embodies by reference Article III
(b) of the Compact for the purpose of defining those limitations,
and that the proper interpretation of Art III (b) will be, therefore, essential in future litigation to the determination of Arizona's
rights under the statute; -that, read in the light of other parts of
the Compact, Art. III (b) is ambiguous; and that the testimony
sought to be perpetuated will be material and admissible in removing the ambiguity, and will show that the water apportioned by
Art. III (b) to the lower basin of the water-shed-,000,000 acre
feet per annum-is for the sole and exclusive use and benefit of
Arizona. Held:
(1) That the meaning of the Compact, considered merely as a
contract, can never be material to the contemplated litigation,
since Arizona refused to ratify the Compact. P. 356.
(2) The bill does not show that Art. III (b) of the Compact
is relevant to the interpretation of § 4 (a) of the Act. The Act
does not purport to apportion among the States of the lower basin
(to which Arizona and California belong) the waters to which the
lower basin is entitled under the Compact; it merely limits California's use of waters under Art. III (a) and of surplus waters;
and there can be no claim that Art. III (b) is relevant in defining
surplus waters under § 4 (a) of the Act. P. 357-

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
341

Counsel for Parties.

(3) Proof that Congress understood that Article III (b) had
allotted all the waters therein to Arizona would not make Art. III
(b) relevant to the interpretation of § 4 (a) of the Act. P. 358.
(4) Ambiguity in Art. III (b) is not shown. The Compact
makes an apportionment only between the upper and lower basins.
The fact that any of the waters apportioned to the lower basin are
useful to Arizona only or have been appropriated by her does not
contradict the clear intent of Paragraph (b) to apportion the
1,000,000 acre-feet therein to the States of the lower basin and not
specifically to Arizona alone. P. 358.
(5) The proposed testimony, even if it were relevant, would
not be competent, since the Act rests not upon what was thought
or said by negotiators of the Compact, but upon its ratification
by the six States other than Arizona. P. 359.
4. The rule permitting recourse to the negotiations, preparatory
works, and diplomatic correspondence of the contracting parties to
establish the meaning of a treaty when not clear, has no application to oral statements made by those engaged in negotiating the
treaty which were not embodied in any writing and were not
communicated to the Government of the negotiator or to its
ratifying body. P. 360.
Leave to file denied.

ORIGINAL application upon the part of the State of
Arizona for leave to file a bill to perpetuate testimony for
use in future litigation against the State of California
and other parties named.
Mr. Arthur T. LaPrade, Attorney General of Arizona,
and Messrs. Charles A. Carson, Jr., and A. M. Crawford
were on the brief for plaintiff.
Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of California, and
Messrs. I. W. Stewart, Arvin B. Shaw, Charles L. Childers,
E. C. Finney, Ray L. Chesebro, James M. Stevens, and
Fred M. Bottorf were on the brief for California et al.,
defendants.
Messrs. James H. Howard, Northcutt Ely, Ray W.
Bruce, C. L. Byers, Phil D. Swing, and Thos. Whelan,
were on the brief for the Metropolitan Water District of
Southern California et al., defendants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

Mr. Paul P. Prosser, Attorney General of Colorado,
Mr. Gray Mashburn, Attorney General of Nevada, Mr.
E. K. Neumann, Attorney General of New Mexico, Mr.
Joseph Chez, Attorney General of Utah, and Mr. Ray E.
Lee, Attorney General of Wyoming, were on the brief for
Colorado et al., defendants.
Solicitor General Biggs, Assistant Attorney General
Blair, and Messrs. Charles Bunn, Aubrey Lawrence, and
Nathan R. Margold were on the brief for Ickes, Secretary
of the Interior, defendant.
By leave of Court, Messrs. James D. Parriott, R. C.
Hecox, Malcolm Lindsey, and Stanley P. Smith filed a
brief on behalf of the City and County of Denver, as
amici curiae.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
On October 13, 1930, Arizona sought, by an original bill,
a declaration that the Colorado River Compact and the
Boulder Canyon Project Act be decreed to be unconstitutional and void; that the Secretary of the Interior and
California, Nevada, Utah, New Mexico, Colorado and
Wyoming be permanently enjoined from carrying out said
Compact or said Act; and that they be enjoined from performing contracts which had been executed by the Secretary on behalf of the United States for the use of stored
water and developed power after the project shall have
been completed, and from doing any other thing under
color of the Act. The bill was " dismissed without prejudice to an application for relief in case the stored water
is used in such a way as to interfere with the enjoyment
by Arizona, or those claiming under it, of any rights
already perfected or with the right of Arizona to make
additional legal appropriation and to enjoy the same."
Arizona v. California,283 U.S. 423, 464.

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
341

Opinion of the Court.

On February 14, 1934, Arizona moved for leave to file
in this Court its original bill of complaint to perpetuate
testimony in an action or actions arising out of the Boulder
Canyon Project Act which "at some time in the future"
it will commence in this Court against California, and
others therein named as defendants.' The bill sets forth:
(a) The Act of Congress, August 19, 1921, c. 72, 42 Stat.
171, which authorized Arizona, California, Colorado,
Nevada, New Mexico, Utah and Wyoming to enter into a
compact regarding the waters of the Colorado River; and
the appointment of a representative to act for the United
States.
(b) The Colorado River Compact dated November 24,
1922, signed by representatives of the seven States-to
"become binding and obligatory when it shall have been
approved by the legislature of each of the signatory States
and by the Congress of the United States."
(c) The Act of Congress, December 21, 1928, known
as the Boulder Canyon Project Act, c. 42, 45 Stat. 1057,
which approved the Colorado River Compact subject to
certain limitations and conditions, the approval to become
effective upon the ratification of the compact, as so modified, by the legislature of California and at least five of
the other six States.
(d) The Act of California, c. 16, March 4, 1929, limiting its use of the waters of the Colorado River in conforinity with the Boulder Canyon Project Act.
(e) The Proclamation of the President declaring the
Boulder Canyon Project Act to be in effect, June 25, 1929,
46 Stat. 3000.
'Namely, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah, Wyoming, Harold
L. Ickes, Scretlary of the Interior, Palo Verde Irrigation District,

Inperial Irrigaition District, Coachella Valley Water District, Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, City of Los Angeles,
City of San Diego, and County of San Diego.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

(f) The General Regulation of the Secretary of the
Interior, concerning the storage of water in Boulder Dam
Reservoir and the delivery thereof, dated April 23, 1930,
as amended September 28, 1931.
The bill alleges, among other things:
That no right of Arizona has yet been interfered with;
that attempts will be made hereafter to interfere with its
rights; that it is not possible to bring the issues which will
arise to an immediate judicial investigation or determination and it may be years before this can be done because
"the cause or causes of action have not accrued and may
not accrue for years to come "; that facts known only to
certain named persons will be evidence material in the
determination of such controversy or controversies; that
these persons will be necessary witnesses in the prosecution of the action or actions which Arizona will be compelled to institute in order to protect its rights and those
of persons claiming under it; and that all the persons
with present knowledge of the present facts may not be
available as witnesses when the cause or causes of action
shall have accrued to the plaintiff. The prayer is for
process to take the oral depositions and to perpetuate the
testimony of these witnesses.
On February 20, 1934, a rule issued to those named
as defendants to show cause why leave to file the bill
should not be granted. All filed returns. Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah and Wyoming stated that they
have no objection to the filing of .the bill or to the taking of any competent testimony; and prayed that to each
state should be granted the right of cross-examination
and the right to object to any such testimony on any
ground either at the time oji the taking or of its presentation to this Court. California and the public agencies
of that state expressed a doubt as to the existence of jurisdiction 'inthis Court. They opposed the granting of
the motion on the ground that the testimony if taken

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
341

Opinion of the Court.

would not be admissible in evidence; opposed also on
the ground that the United States is an indispensable
party; and insisted that the bill should not be received
in the absence of consent by the United States to be
sued. The Secretary of the Interior conceded that this
Court has jurisdiction, but objected on the same grounds
as California to granting the motion. Thereupon, a brief
was filed by Arizona, reply briefs by respondents and a
brief amicus curiae by the City and County of Denver,
Colorado.
First. No bill to perpetuate testimony has heretofore
been filed in this Court; but no reason appears why such
a bill may not be entertained in aid of litigation pending
in this Court, or to be begun here. Bills to perpetuate
testimony had been known as an independent branch of
equity jurisdiction before the adoption of the Constitution.2 Congress provided for its exercise by the lower
federal courts.' There the jurisdiction has been repeatedly invoked; ' and it has been recognized by this Court.
The sole purpose of such a suit is to perpetuate the
testimony.. To sustain a bill of this character, it must
appear that the facts which the plaintiff expects to prove
'1 Pomeroy's Equity Jurisprudence, (4th ed.) § 211; West v. Lord
Sackville, L.R. [1903] 2 Ch. Div. 378.
'Revised Statutes, § 866: "... any circuit [district] court upon
application to it as a court of equity, may, according to the usages
of chancery, direct depositions to be taken in perpetuam rei memoriam, if they relate to any matters that may be cognizable in any
court of the United States. ..."

"New York & Baltimore Coffee Polishing Co. v. New York Polishing Co., 9 Fed. 578; 11 Fed. 813; Richter v. Jerome, 25 Fed. 679;
Westinghouse Machinery Co. v. Electric Storage Battery Co., 170
Fed. 430; reversing 165 Fed. 992; The West Ira, 24 F. (2d) 858;
Todd Engineering Co. v. United States, 32 F. (2d) 734; Union Solvents Corp. v. Butacet Corp., 2 F.Supp. 375.
'Richter v. Union Trust Co., 115 U.S. 55; compare Green v: Cornpagnia Generale, 82 Fed. 490, 494-5.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

by the testimony of the witnesses sought to be examined
will be material in the determination of the matter in
controversy; that the testimony will be competent evidence; that depositions of the witnesses cannot be taken
and perpetuated in the ordinary methods prescribed by
law, because the then condition of the suit (if one is
peiiding) renders it impossible, or (if no suit is then pending) because the plaintiff is not in a position to start one
in which the issue may be determined; and that takinig
of the testimony on bill in equity is made necessary by
the danger that it may be lost by delay.
The allegations of the bill presented by Arizona are
sufficient to show danger of losing the evidence by delay;
and also to show Arizona's inability to perpetuate the
testimony by the ordinary methods presribed by law for
the taking of depositions. The only question which requires consideration is whether the testimony which it is
proposed to take would be material and competent evidence in the litigation contemplated.
Second. The action or actions which Arizona expects to
bring may rest upon a claim that " the stored water is
used in such a way as to interfere with the enjoyment by
Arizona, or those claiming under it, of aniy rights already
perfected or with the right of Arizona to make additional legal appropriations and to enjoy the same." Specifically, Arizona claims rights mder § 4 (a) of the
Boulder Canyoi Project Act; these rights, it is said, are
governed in turn by the terms of the Colorado River
Compact. Briefly, the Compact apportions the waters
of the Colorado River between a group of States, termed
the upper basin, north of Lee Ferry, and a group south
thereof, the lower basin, among which are Arizona antid
California. The interference apprehended will, it is alleged, arise out of a refusal of the respondents to accept
as correct that construction of Article III (b) of the

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
341

Opinion of the Court.

Compact which Arizona contends is the proper one. It
claims that this paragraph, which declares:
"In addition to the apportionment in Paragraph (a),
the lower basin is hereby given the right to increase its
beneficial consumptive use of such waters by 1,000,000
acre-feet per annum
means:
"that the waters apportioned by Article III (b) of
said compact are for the sole and exclusive use and benefit of the State of Aizona."
The bill charges that the Secretary of the Interior and the
other defendants refuse to accept such construction; and
that, by certain contracts made between the Secretary and
the California defendants, they are asserting a right to
appropriate the said 1,000,000 acre-feet of water to California .uses. The bill states that the decision in some
future action construing Paragraph (b) will materially
affect rights of Arizona arising under the Boulder Canyon
Project Act, in particular § 4 (a) thereof.'
Arizona seeks, as stated in the bill, to perpetuate, and
proposes to introduce in support of its construction of
Paragraph (b) of Article III, of the Compact, in the
actions to be brought in the future, testimony to the following effect by those who in 1922 were connected with
the negotiation of the Compact:
" The representatives of all the States and the United
States except the Arizona delegation were in agreement
It is claimed that a future decision as to the meaning of Article
III (b) will affect rights also under (a) the Colorado River Compact,
(b) the conditions required by the Boulder Canyon Project Act to

be attached to patents, grants, contracts, concessions, leases, permits,
rights of way and other privileges from the United States, (c) the
relative and respective rights of each of the parties (to the suit to
perpetuate testimony) in the waters of the Colorado and its tributaries, and the use thereof and the burdens and restrictions upon
such use.

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

as to the definition of the Colorado River System, including the Gila River and its tributaries, and as to the division proposed, which substantially apportioned the waters
of the Colorado River at Lee Ferry, the point selected as
dividing the Upper Basin friom the Lower Basin. The
Arizona delegation refused and declined to accept the proposed compact because of the inclusion of the Gila River
and its tributaries without any compensating provision to
the State of Arizona in lieu of the waters thereof, which
had already been appropriated and in which no other State
could have any interest on account of the further fact
that the waters of the Gila River and its tributaries enter
the Colorado River at Yuma, at a point so far (lown stream
and of such low elevation that it was and is impossible to
put the waters thereof to beneficial use in the United
States after they reach the main stream of the Colorado
River. Hence, the Arizona delegation pointed out that
the conference was discussing something which had
already been disposed of and in any event could not concern any State, other than Arizona. Several (lays elapsed
in a discussion between the said representatives of this
problem before a, solution was found. The problem was
finally thought solved by adding subdivision (b) of Article III to the compact as finally approved by said
representatives which reads as follows:
(b) In addition to the apportionment in paragraph
(a), the Lower Basin is hereby giveti the right to increase
its beneficial consumptive use of such waters by one million acre-feet per annum.'
"It was agreed between all the representatives of the
various States and the representative of the United States,
negotiating said compact, that said one million acre-feet
apportioned by subdivision (b) of Article III of said coinpact was intended for and should go to the State of Arizona to compensate for the waters of the Gila River and

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
341

Opinion of the Court.

its tributaries being included within the definition of the
Colorado River System and the allocations of said compact, and that said one million acre-feet was to be used
exclusively by and for the State of Arizona, that being the
approximate amount of water then in use within the State
of Arizona from the Gila River and its tributaries, and it
was agreed that in view of the fact that no appropriation
or allocation of water had otherwise been made by said
compact directly to any State, the one million acre-feet
for the State of Arizona should be included in said compact by an allocation for the Lower Basin. And it was
further agreed that a supplemental compact between the
States, California, Nevada and Arizona should be adopted
and that such supplemental compact should so provide.
"The Arizona delegation stated that if it were agreed
by all the representatives of the several States and of the
United States that said million acre-feet should be for the
exclusive benefit of the State of Arizona to provide compensation to Arizona on account of the inclusion of the
waters of the Gila River and its tributaries in said compact, they would accept said compact, otherwise they
would refuse to accept said compact. It was thereupon
agreed by all representatives of all the States and of the
United States, participating in said negotiations and conferences, that the waters apportioned by Article III (b)
of said compact were for the sole and exclusive use and
benefit of the State of Arizona, and it was further agreed
that a supplemental compact between the States of California, Nevada and Arizona should be adopted and that
such supplemental compact should so provide. Thereupon said compact was signed by the representatives of
the several States and of the United States."
Third. In this suit Arizona asserts rights under the
Boulder Canyon Project Act of 1928, not under the Colorado River Compact, which she has refused to ratify.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

That Act approved the Colorado River Compact subject
to certain limitations and conditions, the approval to become effective upon the ratification of the Compact, as so
modified, by the legislatures of California and at least five
of the six other states. It was so ratified. Arizona claims
that § 4 (a) of that Act imposing limitations on the use
of water by California was intended for her benefit; that
§ 4 (a) embodies by reference Article III (b), among
others, of the Compact for the purpose of defining the
limitation and that the proper interpretation of Article
III (b) will be, therefore, essential to a determination of
Arizona's rights under the statute; that, read in the light
of other sections of the Compact, Article III (b) is ambiguous; and that the testimony sought to be perpetuated
will be material and admissible in removing the ambiguity. The elaborate argument in support of these contentions appears to be, in substance, as follows:
1. Colorado River Compact, apportions the water of
the Colorado River System between the upper and the
lower basin. By Article II it defines the terms used:
"(a) The term 'Colorado River system' means that
portion of the Colorado River and its tributaries within
the United States of America."
"(b) The term 'Colorado River Basin' means all of
the drainage area of the Colorado River system and all
other territory within the United States of America to
which the waters of the Colorado River system shall be
beneficially applied."
"(g) The term ' Lower Basin' means those parts of the
States of Arizona, California, Nevada, New Mexico and
Utah within and from which waters naturally drain into
the Colorado River system below Lee Ferry and also all
parts of said States located without the drainage area of
the Colorado River system which are now or shall hereafter be beneficially served by waters diverted from the
system below Lee Ferry."

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
341

Opinion of the Court.

By Article III, the apportionment is made:
"(a) There is hereby apportioned from the Colorado
River system in perpetuity to the upper basin and to the
lower basin, respectively, the exclusive beneficial consumptive use of 7,500,000 acre-feet of water per annum,
which shall include all water necessary for the supply of
any rights which may now exist."
"(b) In addition to the apportionment in Paragraph
(a), the lower basin is hereby given the right to increase
its beneficial consumptive use of such waters by 1,000,000
acre-feet per annum."
"(d) The States of the upper division [Colorado, New
Mexico, Utah and Wyoming] will not cause the flow of
the river at Lee Ferry to be depleted below an aggregate of 75,000,000 acre-feet for any period of 10 consecutive years reckoned in continuing progressive series beginning with the first day of October next succeeding the
ratification of this compact."
Article III does not in terms apportion as between the
upper and the lower basin the surplus waters in excess
of the amounts specifically allocated. But it recognizes

in Paragraph (c) that there may be "surplus"
in the River, applicable to the lower basin.'

waters

2. The Colorado River Compact does not purport to

apportion between the States of the lower basin the
share of each in the waters of the Colorado River Sys'Paragraph (c) provides: " If, as a matter of international comity,
the United States of America, shall hercafter recognize in the United
States of Mexico any right to the use of any waters of the Colorado
River system, such waters shall be supplied first, from the waters
which are surplus over and above the aggregate of the quantities
specified in paragraphs (a) and (b); and if such surplus shall prove
insufficient for this purpose, then, the burden of such deficiency shall
be equally borne by the upper basin and the lower basin, and whenever necessary the States of the upper division shall deliver at Lee
Ferry water to supply one-half of the deficiency so recognized in
addition to that provided in paragraph (d).

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292-U.S.

tern; but Boulder Canyon Project Act makes some provision for such apportionment. By § 4 (a) it provides
that:
"California, by act of its legislature, shall agree irrevocably and unconditionally with the United States and
for the benefit of the States of Arizona, Colorado, Nevada,
New Mexico, Utah and Wyoming, as an express covenant
and in consideration of the passage of this Act, that the
aggregate annual consumptive use (diversionA less returns to the river) of water of and from the Colorado
River for use in the State of California, including all
uses under contracts made under the provisions of this
Act and all water necessary for the supply of any rights
which may now exist, shall not exceed four million four
hundred thousand acre-feet of the waters apportioned
to the lower basin States by paragraph (a) of Article
III of the Colorado River compact, plus not more than
one-half of any excess or surplus waters unapportioned
by said compact, such uses always to be subject to the
terms of said compact."
And that section authorizes Arizona, California and
Nevada to enter into an agreement which, among other
things, shall provide:
"(1) That of the 7,500,000 acre-feet annually apportioned to the lower basin by paragraph (a) of Article
III of the Colorado River compact, there shall be apportioned to the State of Nevada 300,000 acre-feet and to
the State of Arizona 2,800,000 acre-feet for- exclusive
beneficial consumptive use in perpetuity, and (2) that
the State of Arizona may annually use one-half of the
excess or surplus water unapportioned by the Colorado
River compact, and (3) that the State of Arizona shall
have the exclusive beneficial use of the Gila River and
its tributaries within the boundaries of said State . . .
(7) said agreement to take effect upon the ratification of

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
341

Opinion of the Qourt.-

the Colorado River compact by Arizona, California and
Nevada."
3. Arizona refused to ratify the Colorado River Compact, and the authority conferred upon Arizona, Nevada
and California by the Boulder Canyon Project Act to
enter into an agreement for apportioning the waters has
not been acted on. But California bound itself, by the
Act of its legislature, March 16, 1929, to the limitation
of 4,400,000 acre-feet, plus one-half of the surplus; Arizona claims that the limitation on California's use must
have been enacted for the benefit solely of Arizona, since
geographically she alone could use waters in the lower
basin which California may not use; and that, because
it is embodied in a statute, the limitation imposed by
Congress on California's use confers rights upon Arizona,
although she failed to sign either the principal or the
subsidiary compact.
4. In support of the contention that Article III (b)
of the Compact has a bearing on the interpretation of the
limitation of § 4 (a) of the Act, Arizona points to the
fast that while the Boulder Canyon Project Act makes no
mention of the 1,000,000 acre-feet assigned to the lower
basin by Article III (b) of the Compact, § 4 (a) of the
Act limits California, in terms, to 4,400,000 acre-feet of
the waters apportioned to the lower basin under Article
III (a) of the Compact plus one-half of the "surplus
waters unapportioned by said compact "; that § 4 (a)
declares that such uses by California are "always to be
subject to the terms of said compact "; that California
claims that, in addition to the waters already mentioned,
she is entitled, as one of the parties to the Compact, to
draw upon the Article III (b) waters; and that, acting
upon this assumption, the Secretary of the Interior has
already contracted with California users for delivery of
5,362,000 acre-feet of water per annum from the main

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

stream of the Colorado River, though this water is not
yet being delivered; whereas Arizona contends that by a
proper interpretation of Article III (b) California is excluded from all the waters thereunder in favor of Arizona.
5. In support of the contention that Article III (b) is
ambiguous, Arizona points out that, whereas the Compact
awards to the lower basin, in the aggregate, 8,500,000 acrefeet of water,' Article III (d) of the Compact shows that
only 7,500,000 of this is to come from the main stream of
the Colorado River, since that section provides:
"The States of the upper division will not cause the
flow of the River at Lee Ferry to be depleted below an
aggregate of 75,000,000 acre-feet for any period of 10 consecutiv*e years reckoned in continuing progressive series
beginning with the first day of October next succeeding the
ratification of this compact."
It argues that the 75,000,000 was doubtless arrived at
through multiplying by ten the 7,500,000 acre-feet per
annum apportioned to the lower basin under Article III
(a); that though the lower basin is entitled to 8,500,000
acre-feet, it can only call on the upper basin to release
7,500,000 acre-feet from the main stream; that the only
other waters below Lee Ferry which are available to the
lower basin come from tributaries entirely in Arizona;
that these waters enter the Colorado River at a point so
far south that they could not be used in the United States
after they enter the Colorado; and they have in fact been
appropriated for use in Arizona; that, therefore, what has
in terms been awarded to the lower basin is in practical
effect available only to that part of the lower basin
constituted by Arizona.
Fourth. It is clear that the meaning of the Compact,
considered merely as a contract, can never be material in
the contemplated litigation, since Arizona refused to ratify
'That is the 7,500,000 of the Article III (a) waters and the
1,000,000 of the Article III (b) waters.

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
341

Opinion of the Court.

the Compact. Arizona rests her rights wholly upon tha
Acts of Congress and of California. Arizona claims that
California's construction of § 4 (a) of the statute would
allow her water which under the Compact has been
assigned to Arizona, and that a conflict is thus raised
between the statute and the Compact which the suggested
testimony is competent to resolve. But the resolution of
this alleged conflict can never be material to any case
based on the Compact considered .as contract, since
Arizona neither has nor claims any contractual right.
Fifth. Nor does Arizona show that Article III (b) of
the Compact is relevant to an interpretation of § 4 (a)
of the Boulder Canyon Project Act upon which she bases
her claim of right. It may be true that the Boulder
Canyon Project Act leaves in doubt the apportionment
among the states of the lower basin of the waters to
which the lower basin is entitled under Article III (b).
But the Act does not purport to apportion among the
states of the lower basin the waters to which the lower
basin is entitled under the Compact. The Act merely
places limits on California's use of waters under Article
III (a) and of surplus waters; and it is" such "uses which
are "subject to the terms of said compact."
There can be no claim that Article III (b) is relevant
in defining surplus waters under § 4 (a) of the Act; for
both Arizona and California apparently consider the waters under Article III (b) as apportioned.' It is true that
Arizona alleges (not in the bill however but in her brief)
that she "hopes to be able to show in the case hereafter
to be brought" by evidence of Congressional Committee
hearings and other legislative history that the failure in
the statute to apportion the 1,000,000 acre-feet of waters
was due to an understanding by Congress that Article
The Secretary of the Interior in his brief seems to be of the
opinion that waters under Article III (b) might be surplus waters
under § 4 (a) of the Act.

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

III (b) of the Compact had already assigned these waters
to Arizona and that the limitation on California was
passed in the light of this understanding. This hope if
fulfilled would not make Article III (b) relevant. The
allegation is, not that Congress incorporated Article III
(b) into the Act; it is that Congress understood that
Article III (b) had allotted all the waters therein to
Arizona.
Sixth. The considerations to which Arizona calls attention do not show that there is any ambiguity in Article
III (b) of the Compact. Doubtless, the anticipated
physical sources of the waters which combine to make the
total of 8,500,000 acre-feet are as Arizona contends, but
neither Article III (a) nor (b) deal with the waters on the
basis of their source. Paragraph (a) apportions waters
" from the Colorado River system," i. e., the Colorado and
its tributaries, and (b)' permits an additional use "of such
waters." The Compact makes an apportionment only
between the upper and lower basin; the apportionment
among the states in each basin being left to later agreement. Arizona is one of the states of the lower basin and
any waters useful to her are by that fact useful to the
lower basin. But the fact that they are solely useful to
Arizona, or the fact that they have been appropriated by
her, does not contradict the intent clearly expressed in
Paragraph (b) (nor the rational character thereof) to apportion the 1,000,000 acre-feet to the states of the lower
basin and not-specifically to Arizona alone. It may be
that, in apportioning among the states the 8,500,000 acrefeet allotted to the lower basin, Arizona's share of waters
from the main stream will be affected by the fact that
certain of the waters assigned to the lower basin can be
used only by her; but that is a matter entirely outside
the scope of the Compact.
The provision of Article III (b), like that of Article
III (a) is entirely referable to the main intent of the

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
341

Opinion of the Court.

Compact which was to apportion the waters as between
the upper and lower basins. The effect of Article III (b)
(at least in the event that the lower basin puts the 8,500,000 acre-feet of water to beneficial uses) is to preclude
any claim by the upper basin that any part of the 7,500,000 acre-feet released at Lee Ferry to the lower basin may
be considered as "surplus" because of Arizona waters
which are available to the lower basin alone. Congress
apparently expected that a complete apportionment of
the waters among the States of the lower basin would be
made by the sub-compact which it authorized Arizona,
California and Nevada to make. If Arizona's rights are
in doubt it is, in large part, because she has not entered
into the Colorado River Compact or into the suggested
sub-compact.
Seventh. Even if the construction to be given Paragraph (b) of the Compact were relevant to the interpretation of any provision in the Boulder Canyon Project
Act and such provision were ambiguous, the evidence
sought to be perpetuated is not of a character which
would be competent to prove that Congress intended by
§ 4(a) of the 1928 Act to exclude California entirely from
the waters allotted by Article III (b) to the states of the
lower basin and to reserve all of -those waters to Arizona.
The evidence sought to be perpetuated is not documentary. It is testimony as to what divers persons said six
years earlier while negotiating a compact with a view to
preparing the proposal for submission to the legislatures
of the seven States and to Congress for approval-a proposal which Arizona has not ratified and which the six
other States and Congress did ratify, as later modified,
by statutes enacted in 1928 and 1929. The Boulder Canyon Project Act. rests, not upon what was thought or said
in 1922 by negotiators of the Compact, but upon its
ratification by the six States.
It has often been said that when the meaning of a
treaty is not clear, recourse may be had to the negotia-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

292 U. S.

tions, preparatory works, and diplomatic correspondence
of the contracting parties to establish its meaning. Nielsen v. Johnson, 279 U.S. 47, 52; compare United States
y. Texas, 162 U.S. 1; Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U.S. 197,
223; Cook v. United States, 288 U.S. 102. See Yii, The
Interpretation of Treaties, pp. 138, 192; Chang, The Interpretation of Treaties, p. 59 et seq. But that rule has
no application to oral statements made by those engaged
in negotiating the treaty which were not embodied in any
writing and were not communicated to the government
of the negotiator or to its ratifying body. There is no
allegation that the alleged agreement between the negotiators made in 1922 was called to the attention of Congress in 1928 when enacting the Act; nor that it was
called to the attention of the legislatures of the several
States.
As Arizona has failed to show that the testimony which
she seeks to have perpetuated could conceivably be material or competent evidence bearing upon the construction to be given Article III, Paragraph (b), in any action
which may hereafter be brought, the motion for leave to
file the bill should be denied. We have no occasion to
determine whether leave to file the bill should be denied
also because the United States was not made a party and
has not consented to be sued.
Leave to file bill denied.
OHIO v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF

INTERNAL REVENUE,

ET AL.

MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE BILL OF COMPLAINT.
No. -,

original.

Return to Rule to Show Cause Presented April
30, 1934.-Decided May 21, 1934.

1. The instrumentalities, means and operations whereby the States
exert the governmental powers belonging to them are exempt from
taxation by the United States. P. 368.

