OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

292 U.S.

taining about eight acres. The dissenting judge in the
court of appeals thought that a decree should be entered
cancelling the lease as to the 320 acre tract (the E of
the Section) unless within a reasonable time an exploratory well should be drilled therein to the Mississippi lime,
and that the 40 acres embraced in the SEl of the SW'A
of Section 16 should remain under the lease. We are of
opinion that such a decree would recognize and protect
the equities of both parties.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded to
the District Court for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

MISSISSIPPI VALLEY BARGE LINE CO. v. UNITED

STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
EASTERN
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI,

DIVISION.

No. 807. Argued April 5, 1934.-Decided April 30, 1934.
1. Findings of the Interstate Commerce Commission may not be
assailed in a suit to set its order aside in the absence of the evidence on which they were made. This settled rule can not be
avoided' by the submission of additional evidence in the form of
affidavits. P. 286.
2. It is not for a court to substitute its judgment for that of the
Interstate Commerce Commission in the adjustment of a rate
schedule; the judicial function is exhausted when there is found
a rational basis for the Commission's conclusion. P. 286.
3. Order of the Commission permitting lower rail rates on sugar, to

meet water competition on the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers, held
supported by the facts set forth in its report. Id.

MISS. VALLEY BARGE CO. v. U.S.
282

Opinion of the Court.

4. The policy of Congress with respect to rail and water transportation, as evinced by the Transportation and the Inland Waterways
Transportation Acts, does not mean that carriers by rail shall be
required to maintain a rate that is too high for fear that through
a change they may cut into the profits of carriers by watef. The
most that it can mean, unless, conceivably, in circumstances of
wanton or malicious injury, is that where carriers by land and
water are brought within the range of the regulatory powers of
the Commission, as e.g., in establishing through routes or joint
rates, there shall be impartial recognition and promotion of the
interests of all. P. 288.
5. The permissive minimum rail rate in this case, fixed high enough
to more than pay the cost of service, involves no discrimination
against the complaining water competitor. P. 288.
4 F.Supp. 745, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, constituted
of three judges, dismissing a bill to set aside an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. James R. Van Slyke, with whom Messrs. Guy A.
Thompson and Truman P. Young were on the brief, for

appellant.
Mr. J. Stanley Payne, with whom Solicitor General

Biggs, Assistant Attorney General Stephens, and Messrs.
Elmer B. Collins, and Daniel IV. Knowlton were on the
brief, for the United States and Interstate Commerce

Commission, appellees.
Mr. Elmer A. Smith for the Illinois Central R. Co., et
al., interveners.
MR. JUSTICD CARDOZO delivered

the

opinion of the

Court.

The appellant, Mississippi Valley Barge Line Company, is a common carrier by water, operating towboats
and barges on the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers. It de-

rives a large part of its earnings from the transportation

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

of sugar, which it,carries from New Orleans to Cincinnati

and St. Louis and intermediate ports. It is in active
competition with rail carriers serving the same ports and
inland points beyond.
In 1932, the Illinois Central Railroad Company and
other carriers by rail filed with the Interstate Commerce

Commission proposed schedules of reduced rates on sugar
from New Orleans to northern points, the rates to become
effective October 1 of that year. The aim of the reduction was to meet. the competition of the appellant and
other carriers by water who had been able by reason of
low and unregulated rates to divert to themselves a large
part of the traffic in sugar that till then had moved by
rail. The railway companies perceived that they were
threatened with still heavier losses in the future unless
something was done by a reduction of their own charges
to recover the business that was slipping from their grasp.
Indeed the change had gone so far that already they were
hauling practically no sugar within the field of competition. In 1932 the barge movement amounted to over
500,000 tons, about ten times as much as moved all-rail
from Louisiana to the north. Of the water-borne traffic,
by far the greater part was carried by the Federal Barge
Line, which has acquiesced in the new schedules, preferring to let the rail carriers fix the rate level. The residue
has been carried, part of it by this appellant, part by the
American Barge Company, and part by tramp or contract
operators. During the year 1932, one railway company,
the Illinois Central, lost about half a million dollars by
traffic thus diverted. The new schedules that were filed
in the attempt to retrieve these losses proposed two different sets of rates, one based upon a minimum weight of
60,000 pounds per car, and the other upon a minimum
weight of 80,000 pounds per car. To illustrate their
effect, the old rate between New Orleans and Chicago had

MISS. VALLEY BARGE CO. v. U.S.
282

Opinion of the Court.

been 560 per 100 lbs.; the new one was 300 per 100 lbs.
for the 80,000 minimum and 390 per 100 lbs. for the 60,000
minimum. Between New Orleans and St. Louis the old
rate of 520 became 280 and 340.
Protests against these changes having been filed by the
appellant and others, the Interstate Commerce Commission proceeded to an investigation under § 15 (7) of the
Interstate Commerce Act, and in the meantime ordered
that the schedules be suspended. There were full hearings
of the parties in inferest, with testimony and argument.
On July 3, 1933, the Commission found by its report that
the respondents (the interveners in the court below) had
justified the proposed rates with the 60,000 pound minimum. It found that they had not justified the proposed
rates with the 80,000 pound minimum, but that they had
justified rates four cents higher. "So far as the 80,000
pound minimum is concerned," the Commission said, " this
means all-rail rates from New Orleans of 34 cents to Chicago and 32 cents to St. Louis." Sugar Cases of 1933, 195
I.C.C. 127. The rail carriers accepted this proposal, and
an amended order of the Commission gave approval to
the schedules so revised.
Under the Urgent Deficiencies Act (October 22, 1913,
c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220; 28 U.S.C., §§ 47, 48), the Mississippi Valley Barge Line Company filed a bill to enjoin
and set aside the order of the Commission, joining the
United States and the Commission as defendants. A number of rail carriers who had been respondents in the proceeding were allowed to intervene. After the filing of
answers, the suit was heard by a District Court of three
judges in accordance with the statute. 28 U.S.C., § 47.
None of the evidence received by the Commission was
placed before the court. All that the court had, aside from
the reportand orders, was a group of affidavits by the
complainant's officers, which were in substance to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

effect that the water carriers would be unable to compete
with the carriers by rail if the schedules were to stand
approved. These affidavits were received without objection as to their form, but subject to the objection that they
were inadmissible in so far as they were inconsistent with
what had been found in the report. The court dismissed
the bill, holding that the findings of the report were conclusive as to the facts, and that they were sufficient on
their face to uphold the lowered rates. 4 F.Supp. 745. An
appeal to this court followed. Judicial Code, § 210; 28
U.S.C. § 47a.
The settled rule is that the findings of the Commission
may not be assailed upon appeal in the absence of the evidence upon which they were made. Spiller v. A., T. &
S. F. Ry. Co., 253 U.S. 117, 125; Louisiana & Pine Bluff
Ry. Co. v. United States, 257 U.S. 114, 116; Nashville,
C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Tennessee, 262 U.S. 318, 324;
Edward Hines Trustees v. United States, 263 U.S. 143,
148; Chicago, I. & L. Ry. Co. v. United States, 270 U.S.
287, 295. The appellant did not free itself of this restriction by submitting additional evidence in the form of
affidavits by its officers. For all that we can know, the
evidence received by the Commission overbore these affidavits or stripped them of significance. The findings in
the report being thus accepted as true, there is left only
the inquiry whether they give support to the conclusion.
Quite manifestly they do. The structure of a rate schedule calls in peculiar measure for the use of that erlightened
judgment -,which the Commission by training and experience is qualified to form. Florida v. United States,
ante, p. 1. It is not the province of a court to absorb
this function to itself. I.C.C. v. Louisville & Nashville
R. Co., 227 U.S. 88, 100; Western PaperM11akers' Chemical
Co. v. United States, 271 U.S. 268, 271; VirginianRy. Co.
v. United States, 272 U.S. 658, 663. The judicial func-

MISS. VALLEY BARGE CO. v. U.S.
282

Opinion of the Court.

tion is exhausted when there is found to be a rational basis
for the conclusions approved by the administrative body.
In this instance the care and patience with which the
Commission fulfilled its appointed task are plain, even
to the casual reader, upon the face of its report. The
rates were not approved as the respondents had submitted
them. For the 80,000 p6und minimum, they were found
.to be too low. Not till there had been an increase of four
cents per 100 pounds did the schedule win approval.
There was a sedulous endeavor to guard against a rate war
that would end in mere oppression.
We are told for the appellant that upon the face of the
report the Commission has been heedless of the mandate
of a statute. By § 500 of Transportation Act, 1920 (Feb.
28, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 499; 49 U.S.C. § 142) "it is declared to be the policy of Congress to promote, encourage
and develop water transportation, service, and facilities
in connection with the commerce of the United States, and
to foster and preserve in full vigor both rail and water
transportation." Following this declaration, which is in
ther last title of the act, a duty is imposed upon the Secretary of War to do certain acts with the object of developing facilities for inland waterway transportation, and in
particular to investigate the subject of water terminals
both for inland waterway traffic .and for through traffic
by water and rail; to advise and co6perate with communities, cities and towns; and to ascertain whether the inland waterways "are being utilized to the extent of their
capacity " and are meeting the demands of traffic. By
earlier sections of the act, § 418; 49 U.S.C. § 15; 15 (1),
15 (4), the regulatory powers of the Commission had
been broadened in respect of through or joint rates for
carriers by rail and water, Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v.
United States, 274 U.S. 29, 36; and by the Inland Waterways Transportation Act as amended in 1928, these pow-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

ers had a new extension. Act of May 29, 1928, c. 891,
§ 2, 45 Stat. 978; 49 U.S.C. § 153 (e); United States v.
Illinois Central R. Co., 291 U.S. 457.
For the determination of this case there is no need to
go into the question whether the declaration of the policy
of Congress to foster rail and water transportation creates
a new standard of duty for the Commission in the ordering of rates, or is a source of private rights if the duty is
ignored. That question does not become important until
the policy of the lawmakers appears to have been flouted;
and here it was obeyed. The admonition does not mean
that carriers by rail shall be required to maintain a rate
that is too high for fear that through the change they may
cut into the profits of carriers by water. The most, that it
can mean, unless, conceivably, in circumstances of wanton
or malicious injury, is that where carriers by land and
water are brought within the range of the regulatory
powers of the Commission, as e.g., in establishing through
routes or joint rates, there shall be impartial recognition
and promotion of the interests of all.
No discrimination of that kind is proved or even charged.
The rates affected by this schedule do not involve the
division of joint earnings between land and water carriers. The appellant makes its own rates from port to
port, and may increase or lower them at will. What has
been done by the Commission affects the carriers by rail
alone, at least in its immediate consequences. Transportation by water may feel the repercussions of regulation elsewhere. It has not been regulated directly. Even
for transportation by land, the Commission has done no
more than establish a permissive minimum, and this a
minimum sufficient to give assurance that the carriage
of the sugar will not involve a loss. "There is no reasonable doubt," we are told in the report, " that the proposed rates are high enough to pay more than the cost of
service."

MISS. VALLEY BARGE CO. v. U. S.
282

Opinion of the Court.

The appellant insists that it is fighting for its life, and
that the effect of the new competition will be to drive it
out of business. Nothing in the findings gives substance
to the fear. There is significance in the fact that the Federal Barge Line, the leading carrier by water, submitted
without protest. We do not overlook a sentence that the
appellant has lifted from its setting and put before us as
a finding. "If respondents succeed, the barge lines will
be dealt a staggering blow." Taken by themselves the
words suggest a finding that the new schedules will affect
the barge lines to the point of destruction, or something
very near it. Read in the light of the context, they are
not a finding at all, but a summary of the grounds of
protest, an outline of the pleadings, or of what amounts
to the pleadings before an administrative body. This being so, we do not now consider whether the destruction of a
rival through the mere force of competition is legally a
wrong, unless "disinterested malevolence" (American
Bank & Trust Co. v. Federal Reserve Bank, 256 U.S.
350, 358), or something akin thereto, has supplied the
motive power. M. Steinert & Sons Co. v. Tagen, 207
Mass. 394, 397; 93 N.E. 584; Nann v. Raimist) 255 N.Y.
307, 319; 174 N.E. 690.
There is no substance to the contention that the effect
of the report is to give the sanction of the Commission
to an illegal combination in restraint of trade and
commerce.
Nor is .there substance to the contention that discretion was abused by denying a rehearing. United States
v. Northern Pacific Ry Co., 288 U.S. 490, 494.
For the purposes of this appeal we have assumed, as it
was assumed in the court below, that the appellant has a
standing sufficient to maintain the suit. See, however,
Sprunt & Son, Inc. v. United States, 281 U.S. 249. We
have made a like assumption in answer to the argument
of counsel for the railways that the order of the Corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.

290

292 U.S.

Syllabus.

mission is negative in form and substance, and hence
not subject to review. Alton R. Co. v. United States, 287
U.S. 229. These objections to the suit coalesce to such
an extent with the merits of the appellant's grievance
under § 500 of the statute (Transportation Act, 1920)
as to make it unnecessary to separate them.
The decree is
Affirmed.

DAYTON POWER & LIGHT CO. v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF OHIO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.
No. 609.

Argued March 13, 14, 1934.-Decided April 30, 1934.

1. In fixing the rates of a gas distributing company, the State is not
bound to allow as operating expenses the full amounts paid for
.gas supplied the distributor under a contract between it and a
closely affiliated seller, but may inquire into the reasonableness
of the contract price. P. 295.
2. To prove that a lower allowance, found reasonable by the state
authorities, resulted in a confiscatory rate, the distributor in this
case was under the burden of showing that, in its transactions with
the affiliated seller, which was itself subject to rate regulation, the
contract price was no higher than would fairly be payable in a
regulated business by a buyer unrelated to the seller and dealing at
arms length. Pp. 295, 308.
3. Where a gas distributing company claimed that a rate fixed by a
State was confiscatory, upon the ground that the allowance made
for purchase of its gas supply from an affiliated producing company and chargeable to its operating expenses was inadequate, and
this question turned upon the value of leases of gas land held by
the affiliate, which were appraised by the state authorities at more
than book- value, held that the burden of proving such appraisal
so inadequate as to result in confiscation through its effect upon
the rate was not sustained by evidence consisting (a) of testimony
of friendly experts who gave widely variant estimates based on
forecasts of production capacity and on the assumption that the
product would be sold in an unregulated market; and (b) actual
sales of other gas leaseholds in sporadic transactions, separate in

