OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

292 U. S.

tions, preparatory works, and diplomatic correspondence
of the contracting parties to establish its meaning. Nielsen v. Johnson, 279 U.S. 47, 52; compare United States
y. Texas, 162 U.S. 1; Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U.S. 197,
223; Cook v. United States, 288 U.S. 102. See Yii, The
Interpretation of Treaties, pp. 138, 192; Chang, The Interpretation of Treaties, p. 59 et seq. But that rule has
no application to oral statements made by those engaged
in negotiating the treaty which were not embodied in any
writing and were not communicated to the government
of the negotiator or to its ratifying body. There is no
allegation that the alleged agreement between the negotiators made in 1922 was called to the attention of Congress in 1928 when enacting the Act; nor that it was
called to the attention of the legislatures of the several
States.
As Arizona has failed to show that the testimony which
she seeks to have perpetuated could conceivably be material or competent evidence bearing upon the construction to be given Article III, Paragraph (b), in any action
which may hereafter be brought, the motion for leave to
file the bill should be denied. We have no occasion to
determine whether leave to file the bill should be denied
also because the United States was not made a party and
has not consented to be sued.
Leave to file bill denied.
OHIO v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF

INTERNAL REVENUE,

ET AL.

MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE BILL OF COMPLAINT.
No. -,

original.

Return to Rule to Show Cause Presented April
30, 1934.-Decided May 21, 1934.

1. The instrumentalities, means and operations whereby the States
exert the governmental powers belonging to them are exempt from
taxation by the United States. P. 368.

OHIO v. HELVERING.
360

361

Argument for Ohio.

2. The immunity of the States from federal taxation, under the
above-stated rule, is limited to those agencies which are of a
governmental character. P. 36S.
3. Whenever a State engages in a business of a private nature it
exercises non-governmental functions, and the business, though
conducted by the State, is not immune from the federal taxing
power. P. 368.
4. Where a State engages in the business of distributing and selling
intoxicating liquors, though pursuant to a legislative enactment
providing a system of liquor control, it is not immune from the
federal tax imposed on liquor dealers by R.S., § 3244. Following
South Carolina v. United States, 199 U.S. 437. P. 368.
5. Though the Eighteenth Amendment outlawed the liquor traffic, it
did not have the effect of converting what had always been a
private activity into' a governmental function. P. 369.
6. As applied to business activities, the police power is the power
to regulate those activities, not to engage in carrying 'them on.
P. 369.
7. Whether the word "person " or " corporation " as used in a
statute includes a State or the United States depends upon the
connection in which the word is found. P. 370.
8. As used in 26 U.S.C., § 205, which imposes a tax upon every
person who deals in intoxicating liquors, the word "person" is held
to include a State, either under the statutory extension of the word
to include a corporation (26 U.S.C., § 11) or without regard to
such extension. P. 371.
Motion denied.

THis was a motion by the State of Ohio for leave to file
a bill of complaint invoking the original jurisdiction of
this Court.

The State was seeking to enjoin the enforce-

ment against it of federal statutes imposing taxes upon

dealers in intoxicating liquors.
Mr. John W. Bricker, Attorney General of Ohio, Mr.
William S. Evatt, and Mr. Isadore Topper, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief for Ohio.

The right of a State to institute an original action in

this Court against citizens of another State is granted in
Art. III, § 2, of the Federal Constitution.

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Ohio.

292 U.S.

The right of a State to prosecute a suit in injunction
has been recognized by this Court. Georgia v. Tennessee
Copper Co., 206 U.S. 230; Floridav. Mellon, 273 U.S. 12.
This is an action arising from extraordinary and exceptional circumstances.
If an individual may enjoin the collection of a federal
tax in the District Court under certain circumstances,
Regal Drug Corp. v. Wardell, 260 U.S. 386; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U.S. 44; Miller v. Standard Nut Margarine Co.,
284 U.S. 498; a State may enjoin such collection under
like circumstances in this Court.
In the operation of complainant's Department of Liquor Control, the State is performing a purely governmental
function, an exercise of its police power.
It is difficult to conceive of a function at the present
time more directly designed for the protection of the public health, safety, welfare and morals than the control of
the liquor traffic, and hence more directly and exclusively
a purely governmental function. Plumb v. Christie, 103
Ga. 686; Dispensary Comm'rs v. Thornton, 106 Ga. 106.
It is submitted that when a State, in the exercise of its
police power, for the purpose of controlling the liquor
traffic, prohibits the private business of wholesaling and
retailing by the package of spirituous liquor, and itself
takes over that function for the protection of its citizens
from unscrupulous liquor dealers and bootleggers, it is
performing a most vital governmental function. This,
plaintiff contends, has always been true, but it is now
doubly true in view of America's experience during the
last fifteen years.
The adoption of the Eighteenth Amendment, followed
by the adoption of the Twenty-first Amendment, has indisputably placed plaintiff's operation of its Department
of Liquor Control in the category of a governmental function.

OHIO v. HELVERING.
360

Argument for Ohio.

The federal statutes do not levy a tax against a State
which sells and distributes intoxicating liquor.
In construing a statute, words are taken in their ordinary sense unless from the whole context a different
meaning was intended. Giving to the term " person" its
broad and commonly understood meaning, § 11 (R.S.,
§ 3140) deals with individuals, associations, co-partnerships and corporations, since a State is not a person within
the ordinary or legal definition of that word. United
States v. Fox, 94 U.S. 315, 321; In re Fox, 52 N.Y. 530;
Lowenstein v. Evans, 69 Fed. 908. See also, McBride v.
Board of Comm'rs, 44 Fed. 17, 18; Berton v. All Persons,
176 Cal. 610.
It is also to be noted that Congress did not include
within the definition of the word" person," as contained in
26 U.S.C., § 11 (R.S., § 3140), the phrase "body corporate
or politic." Even if that phrase had been used, it would
not include a State. Des Moines v. Harker, 34 Iowa 84;
Lowenstein v. Evans, 69 Fed. 908, 911.
A State, accurately speaking, is not a corporation, since
the State is self-existing, whereas a corporation is an
entity created by a State. The failure of Congress to include the States in the definition of the term "person"
could not have been inadvertent, since the States are not
commonly thought of as persons. Davis v. Pringle, 1 F.
(2d) 860, 863; Mayrehoferv. Board of Education,89 Cal.
110.
This is not an action against the United States.
Defendants have no authority to assess and collect a
tax against the State. This is an action to enjoin defendants from committing acts under color of office which are
neither authorized by the statutes of the United States
nor by its Constitution. Philadelphia,Co.v. Stimson, 223
U.S. 605.
The inevitable result of taxing this state instrumentality is to interfere with and destroy it, thereby returning

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Ohio.

292 U.S.

to the Federal Government the power to prohibit the
business, a power expressly taken away by the Twentyfirst Amendment.
The Court is not here concerned with the destruction
by a State of a "preexisting. right of taxation possessed
by the Government of the United States," Murray v.
Wilson Distilling Co., 213 U.S. 173,-this for the reason
that the United States has not for the past fifteen years
had any right to tax the liquor business here under consideration, it having been during that interval prohibited;
furthermore, since the adoption of the Twenty-first
Amendment any right to tax this business is dependent,
in the first instance, upon the State permitting the biisiness to be conducted. To the extent that a State, since
the Twenty-first Amendment, authorizes a return of this
business by private individuals, to that extent is the
iight of the Federal Government to tax conferred.
There is no question here of interference with or danger
to the sources of federal revenue. The liquor traffic has
become primarily a problem of welfare, health and morals;
it is no longer a problem of revenue. Revenue has become purely secondary. This traffic ceased to be a revenue traffic upon the adoption of the Eighteenth Amendment, and the Twenty-first Amendment did not return
it to this category in States which adopt a state monopoly.
The case f South Carolina v. United States, 199 U.S.
437, is not inconsistent with plaintiff's position. The
Court had before it a dispensary system established by
the State of South Carolina in 1895, primarily for revenue,
which was materially different from that presented in the
present case. Under the South Carolina law, the dispensaries were operated by a dispenser licensed by a
county board of control. Under the Ohio law, the stateowned stores are operated by civil sevice. employees of
the state government. In the present case, instead of
being concerned with a matter of taxing natural persons

OHIO v. HELVERINO.
360

Argument for Defendants.

who were licensed by the State, we are concerned with the
matter of the taxation of the State itself. The two cases
are clearly distinguishable.
It ispertinent to note that although this South Carolina case has since been cited by this Court, it has been
cited only as authority for the principle that a private
business enterprise of the State, as distinguished from a
governmental function, may be taxed by the Federal Government. In no single case has this Court cited the case
as authority for the proposition that the exercise of a
state monopoly of the liquor business is a private business
and not the performance of a governmental function.
Solicitor General Biggs, Assistant Attorney General
Wideman, and Messrs. James W. Morris, M. H. Eustce,
and Charles Bunn were on the brief for defendants.
The cause is not within the original jurisdiction of this
Court, because four of the defendants are citizens of the
plaintiff State.
Injunction will not lie to restrain the collection of a
federal tax. Section 3224, Revised Statutes, has been
uniformly applied even where it appears that the tax is
illegal or unconstitutional. To make this section inapplicable there must exist special and extraordinary circumstances, which do not exist in this case.
The Government has provided a complete system -of
corrective justice in the administration of its revenue
laws, which is founded upon the idea of appeals within
the executive departments, where, if the' party aggrieved
can not obtain satisfaction, there are provisions for recovering the tax after it is paid, by suit against the collecting officer, or against the United States. Complainant
'has an adequate remedy at law by paying the tax and
suing for its recovery.
The tax which is challenged is one provided for the
operation of the general Government. The defendants

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

have no personal interest in the collection of the tax.
The acts complained of are the acts of the defendants in
their official capacities, done under color of their offices
in the performance of an official duty. Hence the United
States is the real party in interest, and it can not be sued
without its consent.
The merits have already been decided against plaintiff's
contention. South Carolina v. United States, 199 U.S.
437; Board of Trustees v. United States, 289 U.S. 48.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Upon the motion of complainant for leave to file a bill
of complaint invoking the original jurisdiction of this
court, a rule was issued directing the defendants to show
cause why such leave should not be granted. Defendants,
by their return to the rule, oppose the motion upon the
ground, among others, that the merits have been conclusiyely settled against complainant by prior decision of
this court.
The bill alleges that the defendant Helvering is Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and that the other defendants are collectors of internal revenue in the several
internal revenue districts in the State of Ohio; that on
December 22, 1933, the state legislature passed an act
providing a system of control for the manufacture, sale
and importation of, and traffic in, beer and intoxicating liquors within the state, and creating a state monopoly for the distribution and sale of all spirituous liquors
under a department of liquor -control; that the state has
purchased intoxicating liquors at a cost of more than
$4,500,000 for sile to permit-holders and to the public
through its state stores, each. of which will be entirely
and exclusively state owned, managed and controlled;
that the state is about to open in the various counties

OHIO v. HELVERING.
360

Opinion of the Court.

one hundred and eighty-seven such state liquor stores;
that defendants have threatened to, and unless enjoined
by this court will, levy and collect excise taxes on the
agencies and operations of the state in the conduct of
its department of liquor control, and enforce against the
state, its officers, agents and employees, penalties for
nonpayment of taxes imposed by § 3244, R.S. (U.S.C.,
Title 6, § 205), and other designated statutes of the
United States; that complainant is not subject to these
statutes and is immune from any tax imposed thereby;
and that the acts of Congress which impose such taxes
do not by their terms include a state, or its officers or
employees, and were not intended to do so. It is further alleged that the circumstances of the case are extraordinary and exceptional in several respects, among
them being that the attempt is to tax a sovereign state;
and it, therefore, is contended that the equity power of
the court is properly invoked under the principles stated
in Hill v. Wallace, 259 U.S. 44, 62.
The state act deals with the subject in great detail; but
for present purposes the provisions set forth in the bill
to which we have just referred are all that require
consideration.
The provisions of the federal statutes, so far as necessary
to be stated, follow:
U.S.C., Title 26, § 205 (R.S., § 3244, as amended):
"(a) Retail liquor dealers.-Retail dealers in liquor
shall pay $25. Every person who sells or offers for sale
foreign or domestic distilled spirits, wines or malt liquors
otherwise than as hereinafter provided in less quantities
than five wine gallons at the same time shall be regarded
as a retail dealer in liquors.
. "(b) Wholesale. liquor dealers.-Wholesale liquor dealers shall each pay $100. Every person who sells, or offers
for sale foreign or domestic distilled spirits, wines or malt
liquors, otherwise thin as hereinafter provided in quanti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

ties of not less than five wine gallons at the same time shall
be regarded as a wholesale liquor dealer."
U.S.C., Title 26, § 11 (R.S., § 3140):
",..where not otherwise distinctly expressed or manifestly incompatible with the intent thereof, the word' person,' as used in this title, shaI be construed to mean and
include a partnership, association, company, or corporation, as well as a natural person."
Putting aside various preliminary questions raised by
defendants (compare Ex parte Bakelite Corp., 279 U.S.
438, 448; Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet.
420, 553), we pass at once to the fundamental question
involved in the state's challenge to the validity of the
tax. That challenge seeks to invoke a principle, resulting
from our dual system of government, which frequently
has been announced by this court and is now firmly established,--that "the instrumentalities, means and operations whereby the States exert the governmental powers
belonging to them are . . . exempt from taxation by the
United States." , Indian Matocycle Co. v. United States,
283 U.S. 570, 575; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316,
436; Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113; and other cases cited
in Trinityfarm Construction Co. v. Grosjean, 291 U.S.
466. But, by the very terms of the rule, the immunity of
the states from federal taxation is limited to those agencies
which are of a governmental character. Whenever a state
engages in a business of a private nature it exercises nongovernmental functions, and the business, though conducted by the state, is not immune frorh the exercise of
the power of taxation which the Constitution vests in the
Congress. This court, in South Carolinav. United States,
199 U.S. 437, a case in no substantial respect distinguishable from the present one,. definitely so held. Compare
Board of Trustees v. tUnited States, 289,U.S. 48, 59.
The South Carolina case arose under a state statute,
which, like the one at bar, created a monopoly and prohibited the sale of intoxicating liquors except at dispen-

OHIO v. HELVERING.
360

Opinion of the Court.

saries to be operated by the state. This court, while
sustaining the validity of the statute and fully accepting
the rule that the national government was without power
to impose a tax in any form which had the effect of prohibiting the full discharge by the state of its governmental
functions, held that "whenever a State engages in a business which is of a private nature that business is not withdrawn from the taxing power of the Nation." The decision sustained the identical tax provisions involved in the
present case, and, therefore, we follow it as controlling.
A distinction is sought in the fact that after that case
was decided the Eighteenth Amendment was passed, and
thereby, it is contended, the traffic in intoxicating liquors
ceased to be private business, and then with the repeal of
the amendment assumed a status which enables a state to
carry it on under the police power. The point seems to
us altogether fanciful. The Eighteenth Amendment outlawed the traffic; but, certainly, it did not have the effect
of converting what had always been a private activity into
a governmental function. The argument seems to be that
the police power is elastic and capable of development and
change to meet changing conditions. Nevertheless, the
police power is and remains a governmental power, and
applied to business activities is the power to regulate
those activities, not to engage in carrying them on.
Rippe v. Becker, 56 Minn. 100, 111-112; 57 N.W. 331.
If a state chooses to go into the business of buying and
selling commodities, its right to do so may be conceded so
far as the Federal Constitution is concerned; but the exercise of the right is not the performance of a governmental
function, and must find its support in some authority
apart from the police power. When a state enters the
market place seeking customers it divests itself of its
quasi sovereignty pro tanto, and takes on the character of
a trader, so far, at least, as the taxing power of the federal
government is concerned. Compare Georgia v. Chattanooga, 264 U.S. 472, 480-483; U.S. Bank v. "Planters'

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of -the Court.

292 U. S.

Bank, 9 Wheat. 904, 907; Bank of Kentucky v. Wister,
2 Pet. 318, 323; Briscoe v. Bank of Kentucky, 11 Pet. 257,
323-325; Curranv. Arkansas, 15 How. 304, 309.
We find no merit in the further contbntion that a state
is not embraced within the meaning of the word "person," as used in U.S.C., Title 26, § 205 and defined in
§ 11, supra. By § 205 the tax is levied upon every "person who sells, etc."; and by § 11 the word "person"
is to be construed as meaning and including a partnership, association, company or corporation, as well as a
natural person. Whether the word "person" or " corporation" includes a state or the United States depends
upon the connection in which the word is found. Thus,
in Stanley v. Schwalby, 147 U.S. 508, 517, it'is said that
the word " person" in the statute there under consideration would include the United States as a body politic
and corporate. See also Giddings v. Holter, 19 Mont.
263, 266; 48 Pac. 8; State v. Herold, 9 Kan. 194, 199.
A state is a person within the meaning of a statute punishing the false making or fraudulent alteration of a
public record "with intent that any person may be defrauded." Martin v. State, 24 Tex. 61, 68. Under a
statute defining a negotiable note as a note made by one
person whereby he promises to pay money to another
person, and providing that the word "person" should
be construed to extend to every corporation capable by
law of making contracts, it was held that the word included a state. Indiana v. Woram, 6 Hill (N.Y.)
33, 38. And a state is a person or a corporation within
the purview of the priority provisions of the bankruptcy
act.* In re Western Implement Co., 166 Fed. 576, 582.
* U.S.C., Title 11, § 104 (b) (5)--" debts owing to any person who
by the laws of the States or the United States is entitled to priority."
This construction is explicitly adopted by the amendment of May 27,

1926, c. 406, § 15, 44 Stat. 666; U.S.C., Supp. VII, Title 11, § 104
(b) (7).

HELVERING v. IND. LIFE INS. CO.
360

Syllabus.

Compare In re Jensen, 59 N.Y.Supp. 653, 655; Bray v.
JWallingford, 20 Conn. 416, 418; County of Lancaster v.
Trimble, 34 Neb. 752, 756; 52 N.W. 711; Rains v. City
of Oshkosh, 14 Wis. 372, 374; 1 Black. Comm. 123.
In the South Carolina case this court disposed of the
question by holding that since the state was not exempt
from the tax, the statute reached the individual sellers
who acted as dispensers for the state. While not rejecting that view, we prefer, in the light of the foregoing
examples, to place our ruling upon the broader ground
that the state itself, when it becomes a dealer in
intoxicating liquors, falls within the reach of the tax
either as a "person" under the statutory extension of
that word to include a corporation, or as a "person"
without regard to such extension.

The motion for leave

to file the bill of complaint, accordingly, is
Denied.
MR. JUSTICE STONE concurs in the result.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. INDEPENDENT LIFE INSURANCE
CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 689.

Argued April 4, 1934.-Decided May 21, 1934.

1. A federal tax upon part of a building occupied by the owner, or
upon the rental value of the space, is a direct tax and invalid unless
apportioned. P. 378.
2. The rental value of a building used by the owner does not constitute income within the meaning of the Sixteenth Amendment.
P. 379.
3. In computing the net income of life insurance companies under the
Revenue Acts of 1921 and 1924, deductions for taxes, expenses, and
depreciation, in respect of real estate owned and occupied in whole
or in part by the taxpayer, are not permitted unless there be

