OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

292 U.S.

Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co. v. Nelson Mfg. Co.,
291 U.S. 352. There should be an appropriate opportunity in such circumstances to terminate or modify the
restraints of the decree. There should also be an opportunity to renew the litigation in respect of the issue of
constitutional validity, now held to be irrelevant. The
reservations proper to that end will follow the practice
indicated in Glenn v. Field Packing Co., 290 U.S. 177,
and Wald Transfer & Storage Co. v. Smith, 290 U.S. 602.
In conformity with those decisions, the decree will be
modified by striking therefrom any conclusion of law or
other adjudication as to the validity of the Documentary
Stamp Tax Act of Florida under the Constitution of the
United States, and by adding a provision, that the parties
to the suit or any of them may apply at any time to the
court below, by bill or otherwise, as they may be advised,
for a further order or decree, in case it shall appear that
the statute has been then construed by the highest court of
Florida as applicable to the transactions in controversy
here. With this modification the decree will be affirmed.
Decree modified and affirmed.
W. B. WORTHEN CO. ET AL. v. THOMAS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 856.

Submitted May 2, 1934.-Decided May 28, 1934..

1. Plaintiff rebovered a judgment for the payment of money upon a
contract and garnished a life insurance company which owed the
defendant upon a policy on the life of her deceased husband. The
garnishment became a lien. After this, the legislature enacted a law
exempting from judicial process the proceeds of life insurance
policies payable to residents of the State; and the state courts
construed the statute so as to vacate the lien of the garnishment and
exempt the fund from judicial process. Held that as applied to
plaintiff's contract the statute was void under the contract clause of
the Constitution. P. 431.

W. B. WORTHEN CO. v. THOMAS.
426

Argument for Appellants.

2. The statute can not be justified by a legislative finding of emergency, since it is not limited to the emergency and sets up no conditions apposite to emergency relief. Home Bldg. & Loan Assn. v.
Blaisdell, 290. U.S. 398, distinguished. P. 432.
188 Ark. 249; 65 S.W. (2d) 917, reversed.

APPEAL from the affirmance of a judgment dismissing
a garnishment of a debt owing as life insurance, and
holding the fund exempt from levy under a judgment
recovered by the garnishor on a contract to pay rent.
Mr. Henry M- Armistead submitted for appellants.
Issuance and service of the writ of garnishment creates
a lien upon the credit or the fund so attached. Desha v.
Baker, 3 Ark. 509; Martin v. Foreman, 18 Ark. 249; Smith
v. Butler, 72 Ark. 350; St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co. v. Vanderberg, 91 Ark. 252.
The exemption was so 6xcessive as to exceed the right
to alter mere remedial processes. Gunn v. Barry, 15.Wall.
610; Terry v. Anderson, 95 U.S. 628; HomeBldg. & Loan
Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U.S. 398.
The effect of the decision of the Supreme Court of
Arkansas is to make exempt retrospectively all proceeds
of life insurance policies. Such an exemption is so lacking
in uniformity and may be so grossly excessive in value as
to be constitutionally void under the decisions of this
Court.
This court, -in 'deciding Bank of Minden v. Clement,
256 U.S. 126, quoted: Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat.
122, 197, 198, and Planters Bank v. Sharp, 6 How. 301,
327, which hold that a test that a contract has been im-paired is that its value has by legislation been substantially diminished. The footnotes to the majority opinion
in Home Bldg. & Loan'Assn. v. Blaisdell, supra, cite the
Bank of Minden case as one of those in which the change
of remedies dest-ioyed substantial rights.
It is true that there is an emergency provision in .the
statute which is involved. That provision bears no rela-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Appellee.

292 U.S.

tion to its validity in a constitutional sense. Hard times,
financial distress, debt and panic have never been taken
here as an excuse for the destruction of contracts and
vested rights. Edwardsv. Kearzey, 96 U.S. 595; Memphis
v. United States, 97 U.S. 293; Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 How.
311, 317; McGahey v. Virginia, 135 U.S. 662; Louisiana
v. New Orleans, 215 U.S. 180; Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal
Co., 215 U.S. 349, 369; Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v. Wall,
241 U.S. 87, 91.
The Supreme Court of Arkansas should have construed
the statute as being prospective only in its operation.
Shwab v. Doyle, 258 U.S. 534.
Mr. Kenneth W. Coulter, with whom Mr. Harry Robinson was on the brief, submitted for appellee.
The rental contract was merged in the judgment. A
judgment is not a contract protected by the contract
clause of the Constitution. Evans-Snyder-Buell Co. v.
McFadden, 105 Fed. 293; Morley v. Lake Shore & M. S.
Ry. Co., 146 U.S. 162; Read v. Mississippi County, 69
Ark. 365.
The Act does not impair the obligation of any contract
between the parties for the reason that it is a remedial
statute, and only governs the issuance of garnishment in
certain cases. In the case at bar the fund in question
was not in existence when Mrs. Thomas entered into an
implied rental contract with the appellant.
The remedy is to be distinguished from the obligation
of the contract. Home Bldg. & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell,
290 U.S. 398; Sturges v. Crowninshield,4 Wheat. 200.
The Legislature- of Arkansas created the writ of garnishment, there being none such at common law.
No person .can claim a vested right in any particular
mode of procedure. Sutherland, Statutory Construction,
ยง 482; Cooley, Constitutional Limitations, p. 346; EvansSnyder-Buell Co. v. McFadden, 105 Fed. 293.

W. B. WORTHEN CO. v. THOMAS.
426

Opinion of the Court.

The construction placed on the Act by the Supreme
Court of Arkansas does not operate to take property
without due process of law.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Appellee, Mrs. W. D. Thomas, and her husband, Ralph
Thomas, were engaged in business as copartners in Little
Rock, Arkansas, under the name of Enterprise Harness
Company. They became indebted for the rent of premises leased to the partnership by appellant, W. B. Worthen
Company, Agent. On August 31, 1932, judgment for
the amount thus due ($1,200), with interest, was recovered against both partners. Ralph Thomas died on
March 5, 1933. Thereupon, on March 10, 1933, a writ of
garnishment was served upon the Missouri State Life Insurance Company alleging the indebtedness of that Company to Mrs. Thomas, in the sum of $5,000, as the beneficiary of a policy of insurance upon the life of Ralph
Thomas. The service of the writ, under the laws of
Arkansas, created a lien upon the indebtedness.'
A few days later, on March 16,-1933, the Legislature of
Arkansas passed an Act-Act 102 of the Laws of 1933providing as follows:
"All moneys paid or payable to any resident of this
state as the insured or beneficiary designated under any
insurance policy or policies providing for the payment
of life, sick, accident and/or disability benefits shall be
exempt from liability or seizure under judicial process
of any court, and shall not be subjected to the payment
' See Desha v. Baker, 3 Ark. 509, 520, 521; Martin v. Foreman, 18
Ark. 249; 251; Smith v. Butler, 72 Ark. 350, 351; 80 S.W. 580; St.
Louis Southwestern Ry. Co.. v. Vanderberg, 91 Ark. 252, 255; 120
S.W. 993; Foster v. Pollack Co., 173 Ark. 48, 51; 291 S.W.. 989.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

of any debt by contract or otherwise by any writ, order,
judgment, or decree of any court, provided, that the
validity of any sale, assignment, mortgage, pledge or hypothecation of any policy of insurance or of any avails,
proceeds or benefits thereof, now made, or hereafter made,
shall in no way be affected by the provisions of this act."
Appellee, on April 5, 1933, filed a motion to dismiss
the writ of garnishment and for the purpose of scheduling
the money owing to her by the Insurance Company as
being exempt from seizure under judicial process. On
April 6, 1933, the Insurance Company answered the
garnishment, admitting its indebtedness. The court then
ordered the payment of $2,000 into its registry as sufficient
to cover appellant's claim and released the garnishee from
further liability. Appellant responded to the motion
to dismiss the garnishment, and to the claim of exemption, by insisting that Act 102 of the Laws of 1933, if
so applied, contravened Article I, section 10, of the Constitution of the United States by impairing the obligation of appellant's contract. The court of first instance,
overruling that contention, and holding the insurance.
moneys to be free from all judicial process, dismissed the
garnishment and granted the schedule of exemption.
The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State, 188 Ark. 249; 65 S.W. (2d) 917. The constitutional question was again urged by petition for rehearing,
which was denied. The case comes here on appeal.
1. There is no question that the state court gave effect to
'the Act of 1933, and we are not concerned with any earlier
state statute in relatidn to policies of insurance.2 The
debt of the wife herself, as A member of a business partnership, is involved. We have not been referred to any
'Compare ยง 5579, Crawford & Moses' Digest of the Statutes of.
Arkansas, 1921; Acts 76 and 141 of the Laws of Arkansas, 1931;
Mente v. Townsend, 68 Akrk. 391, 397; 59 S.W. 41; Townes v.
Krumpen, 184 Ark. 910, 913; 43 S.W. 1083.

W. B. WORTHEN CO. v. THOMAS.
426

Opinion of the Court.

statute of Arkansas, existing prior to the firm's contract
and to the incurring by appellee of the debt in question,
which in such a case, either by the terms of the statute
or by the construction of it by the state court, precluded
resort to insurance moneys such as those in question!
The state court has mentioned none. On the contrary,
the state court recognized the greater breadth of the Act
of 1933, as compared with earlier statutes, and its controlling operation, and with this recognition sustained
and applied it.' "The only question," said the court,
"for determination here is the constitutionality of Act
102 of 1933, approved March 16, 1933."
2. The exemption created by the Act of 1933, as to the
avails of life insurance policies, is unlimited. There is
no limitation of amount, however large. Nor is there
any limitation as to beneficiaries, if they are residents of
the State. There is no restriction with respect to .particular circumstances or relations. "All moneys paid or
payable" to any resident of the State "as the insured or
beneficiary designated" under any life insurance policy,
are exempted "from liability or seizure under judicial
process" and "shall not be subjected to the payment of
any debt." The profits of a business, if invested in life
insurance, may thus be withdrawn from the pursuit of
creditors to whatever extent desired. No conditions are
imposed, save that assignees, mortgagees, or pledgees of
policies are protected.
Such an exemption, applied in the case of debts owing
before the exemption was created by the legislature, constitutes an unwarrantable interference with the obliga'As to moneys payable by fraternal benefit societies, see Act 462
of Laws of Arkansas, 1917; Acree v. Whitley, 136 Ark. 149; 206 S.W.
137.
'See Wilmington & Weldon R. Co. v. Alsbrook, 146 U.S. 279, 293;
McCullough v. Virginia, 172 U.S. 102, 116, 117; Houston & Texas
Central R. Co. v. Texas, 177 U.S. 66, 77; Appleby v. City of New
York, 271 U. S. 364..

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U.S.

tion of contracts in violation of the constitutional provision. Gunn v. Barry, 15 Wall. 610, 622, 623; Edwards v.
Kearzey, 96 U.S. 595, 604; Bank of Minden v. Clement,
256 U.S. 126, 129. Chief Justice Marshall, in Sturges
v. Crowninshield,4 Wheat. 122, 198, observed that "it is
not true that the parties have in view only the property
in possession when the contract is formed, or that its obligation does not extend to future acquisitions. Industry,
talents, and integrity, constitute a fund which is as confidently trusted as property itself. Future acquisitions
are, therefore, liable for contracts; and to release them
from this liability impairs their obligation." This principle was applied to an exemption of insurance moneys, in
relation to antecedent .debts, in Bank of Minden v. Clement, supra. The argument of appellee that a judgment
is not in itself a contract within the constitutional protection,5 and that it is competent for the State to alter
or modify forms of remedies, is unavailing. The judgment and garnishment in the instant case afforded the
appropriate means of enforcing the contractual obligations of the firm of which appellee was a member and the
statute altered substantial rights. Gunn v. Barry, supra;
Edwards v. Kearzey, supra; Fisk v. Jefferson Police Jury,
116 U.S. 131, 134; Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U.S. 398, 430.
3. The Legislature sought to justify the exemption by
reference to the emergency which was found to exist. But
the legislation was not limited to the emergency and set
up no conditions apposite to emergency relief.
We held in Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell,
supra, pp. 434, et seq., that the constitutional prohibition
against the impairment of the obligation of contracts did
not make it impossible for the State, in the exercise of
,ipS essential reserved power, to protect the vital interests
See Morley v. Lake Shore & M. S. Ry. Co., 146 U.S. 162, 169.

W. B. WORTHEN CO. v. THOMAS.
426

Opinion of the Court.

of its people. The exercise of that reserved power has
repeatedly been sustained by this Court as against a
literalism in the construction of the contract clause which
would make it destructive of the public interest by depriving the State of its prerogative of self-protection. We
held that this reserved protective power extended not only
to legislation to safeguard the public health, public safety,
and public morals, and to prevent injurious practices.in
business subject to legislative regulation, despite interference with existing contracts,-an exercise of the State's
necessary authority which has had frequent illustrationbut also to those extraordinary conditions in which a
public disaster calls for temporary- relief. We said that
the constitutional prohibition should not be so construed
as to prevent limited and temporary interpositions with
respect to the enforcement of contracts if made necessary
by a great public calamity such as fire, flood or.earthquake, and that the State's protective power could not be
said to be non-existent when the urgent public need
demanding relief was produced by other and economic
causes. But we also held that this essential reserved
power of the State must be construed in harmony with
the fair intent of the constitutional limitation, and that
this principle precluded a construction which would permit the State to adopt as its policy the repudiation of
debts or the destruction of contracts or the denial of means
to enforce them. We held that when the exercise of the
reserved power of the State, in order to meet public need
because of a pressing public disaster, relates to the enforcement of existing contracts, that action must be limited by reasonable conditions appropriate to the emergency. This is but the application of the familiar
principle that the relief afforded must have reasonable
relation to the legitimate end to which the State is entitled
to direct its legislation. Accordingly, in the case of Blaisdell, we sustained the Minnesota mortgage moratorium

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
SUTHERLAND,

J., concurring.

292 U. S.

law in the light of the temporary and 'conditional relief
which the legislation granted. We found that relief to be
reasonable, from the standpoint of both mortgagor and
mortgagee, md to be"limited to the exigency to which the
legislation was addressed.
In the instant ca e, the relief sought to be afforded is
neither temporary nor conditional. In placing insurance
moneys beyod the reach of existing creditors, the Act
contains no limitations as to time, amount, circumstances,
or need. '-We flnd the legislation, as here applied, to be a
clear violation of the constitutional restriction.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND,

concurring.

MR. JUsTIcE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTInC

McREY-

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER and I concur unreservedly in
the judgment of the court holding the Arkansas statute
void as in contravention of the contract impairment clause
of the Federal Constitution. We concur thus specially
because we are unable to agree with the view set forth-in the opinion that the differences between the Arkansas
NOLDS,

statute and the Minnesota mortgage moratorium law,
which was upheld as constitutional in the Blaisdell case,

are substantial. On the contrary, we are of opinion that
the two statutes are governed by the same principles
and the differences found to exist are without significance,
so far as the question of constitutionality is concerned.
The reasons set forth in. the dissenting opinion in the
Blaisdell case, and the long line of cases previously decided by this court there cited, fully support this conclusion. We were unable then, as we are now, to concur in
the view that an emergency can ever justify, or, what ip
really the same thing, can ever furnish an occasion for
justifying, a nullification of the constitutional restriction

NEW COLONIAL CO. v. HELVERING.
426

Syllabus.

upon state power in respect of the impairment of contractual obligations. Acceptance of such a view takes
us beyond the fixed and secure boundaries of the fundamental law into a precarious fringe of extraconstitutional
territory in which no real boundaries exist. We reject as
unsound and dangerous doctrine, threatening the stability of the deliberately framed and wise provisions of
the Constitution, the notion that violations of those provisions may be measured by the length of time they are
to continue or the extent of the infraction, and that only
those of long duration or of large importance are to be
held bad. Such was not the intention of those who
framed and adopted that instrument. The power of this
court is not to amend but only to expound the Constitution as an agency of the sovereign people who made it
and who alone have authority to alter or unmake it. We
do not possess the benevolent power to compare and contrast infringements of the Constitution and condemn
them when they are long-lived or great or unqualified,
and condone them when they are temporary or small or
conditioned.
NEW COLONIAL ICE CO., INC. v. HELVERING,
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF 'APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 547.

Argued March 5, 6, 1934.-Decided May 28, 1934.

1. Whether and to what extent deductions of losses shall be allowed
in computing income taxes depends upon. legislative grace; and only
as there is clear statutory provision therefor can any particular
deduction be allowed. P. 440.
2. The statutes pertaining to the determination of taxable income
have proceeded generally on the principle that there shall be a
computation of gains and losses on the basis of a distinct accounting for each taxable year; and only in exceptional situations, clearly

