NEW COLONIAL CO. v. HELVERING.
426

Syllabus.

upon state power in respect of the impairment of contractual obligations. Acceptance of such a view takes
us beyond the fixed and secure boundaries of the fundamental law into a precarious fringe of extraconstitutional
territory in which no real boundaries exist. We reject as
unsound and dangerous doctrine, threatening the stability of the deliberately framed and wise provisions of
the Constitution, the notion that violations of those provisions may be measured by the length of time they are
to continue or the extent of the infraction, and that only
those of long duration or of large importance are to be
held bad. Such was not the intention of those who
framed and adopted that instrument. The power of this
court is not to amend but only to expound the Constitution as an agency of the sovereign people who made it
and who alone have authority to alter or unmake it. We
do not possess the benevolent power to compare and contrast infringements of the Constitution and condemn
them when they are long-lived or great or unqualified,
and condone them when they are temporary or small or
conditioned.
NEW COLONIAL ICE CO., INC. v. HELVERING,
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF 'APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 547.

Argued March 5, 6, 1934.-Decided May 28, 1934.

1. Whether and to what extent deductions of losses shall be allowed
in computing income taxes depends upon. legislative grace; and only
as there is clear statutory provision therefor can any particular
deduction be allowed. P. 440.
2. The statutes pertaining to the determination of taxable income
have proceeded generally on the principle that there shall be a
computation of gains and losses on the basis of a distinct accounting for each taxable year; and only in exceptional situations, clearly

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

defined, has there been provision for an allowance for losses suffered
in an earlier year. P. 440.
3. The statutes also have disclosed a general purpose to confine allowable losses to the taxpayer sustaining them, i.e., to treat them as
personal to him and not transferable to or usable by another. P. 440.
4. In order to overcome financial difficulties, all the assets, liabilities
and business of a corporation were taken over by a new corporation
specially organized for the purpose and having substantially the
same capital structure, in exchange for a portion of its stock, which
was distributed by the older corporation among its stockholders,
share for share, thereby retiring the old shares. Creditors were
given a supervising management of the new corporation through
a stock-voting trust until their claims should be paid. The corporate existence of the older corporation continued. Held that the
two corporations were distinct entities, and that the new corporation, in the computation of the tax on its net income for succeeding
years, was not entitled to deduct earlier losses of the old corporation, under § 204 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1921, which provides
that where any "taxpayer" has sustained a net loss the amount
may be deducted from the net income of "the taxpayer" for succeeding tax years. P. 440.
5. As a general rule a corporation and its stockholders are deemed
separate entities, and this is true in respect of tax problems. P. 442.
66 F. (2d) 480, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

290 U.S. 621, to review the affirmance of a

decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 24 B.T.A. 886,
upholding deficiency assessments of income taxes.
Mr. Joseph Sterling, with whom Mr. Edward G. Griffin
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. H. Brian Holland, with whom Solicitor General
Biggs and Messrs. Sewall Key and John MacC. Hudson
were on the brief, for respondent.

MR. JUSTICm VAN DEVANTER
the Court.

delivered the opinion of

This is a controversy respecting deficiencies in the petitioner's income taxes for 1922 and 1923.

NEW COLONIAL CO. v. HELVERING.
435

437

Opinion of the Court.

The question presented is--where all the assets and
business of an older corporation are taken over by a new
corporation, specially organized for the purpose and having substantially the same capital structure, in exchange
for a portion of its stock, which is distributed by the older
corporation among the latter's stockholders share for
share, thereby retiring the old shares, is the new corporation entitled, notwithstanding the change in corporate
identity and ownership, to have its taxable income for
the succeeding period computed and determined by deducting from its net income for that period the net losses
sustained by the older corporation in the preceding period? The answer involves a construction of § 204 (b)
of the Revenue Act of 1921, c. 136, 42 Stat. 227, 231,
which declares:
"If for any taxable year beginning after December 31,
1920, it appears upon the production of evidence satisfactory to the Commissioner that any taxpayer has sustained a net loss, the. amount thereof shall be deducted
from the net income of the taxpayer for the succeeding
taxable year; and if such net loss is in excess of the net
income for such succeeding taxable year, the amount of
such excess shall be allowed as a deduction in computing
the net income for the next succeeding taxable year;
the deduction in all cases to be made under regulations
prescribed by the Commissioner with the approval of theSecretary."
The material facts out of which the controversy arises
are as follows:
Both corporations were organized under the laws of
New York for the purpose of producing and selling icethe older in 1920, with an authorized capital of $750,000,
and the new on April 13, 1922, with an authorized capital
of $700,000. The older one had proceeded to issue and
sell stock, acquire a site for its plant and supply necessary
equipment. When the equipment was only partly in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

stalled, and the plant was being operated at forty per cent
of its intended capacity, the company became financially
embarrassed and unable to meet its indebtedness or supply
additional equipment needed to render the business
profitable.
A creditors' committee was organized, and likewise a
stockholders' committee. Investigation disclosed that
much stock had been issued of which there was no record
and for which no consideration was received. Negotiations resulted in the restoration and cancellation of the
spurious stock and in an agreement to organize a new
company to take over the assets and liabilities, proceed
with the completion of the equipment and continue the
operation of the business. The agreement included provisions for the issue of stock by the new company to the
old equal in class, par value and number of shares, to the
outstanding. stock so that the old company could make
an exchange share for share with its stockholders and
thereby retire its outstanding stock; for obtaining new
funds with which to complete the equipment; for an
extension of time by existing creditors; and for investing
creditors with a supervising management through a stockvoting trust until their claims were paid.
Accordingly the new corporation-petitioner herewas organized and took over the assets, liabilities and
business of the old corporation on April 13, 1922. Other
provisions of the agreement were carried out in the manner contemplated, save in minor particulars not material
here. The corporate existence of the old corporation
continued (so it is stipulated) during the remainder of
1922 and all of 1923, but after the transfer it transacted
no business and had no assets or income.
The old corporation sustained statutory net losses in
the sum of $36,093.19 during 1921 and in the further sum
of $10,338.90 during the part of 1922 preceding the transfer. The new corporation realized a net income of $48,763.43 during the part of 1922 succeeding the transfer

'NEW COLONIAL CO. v. HELVERING.
435

439

Opinion of the Court.

and of $56,242.55 during the year 1923. In this proceeding the new corporation asserts a right under § 204 (b)
to a deduction from its income so realized of the losses
so sustained by the old. corporation.
The petitioner insists that the continuity of the business was not broken by the transfer from the old company to the new; and this may be conceded. But it
should be observed that this continuity was accomplished
by deliberate elimination of the old company and substitution of the new one. Besides, the matter of importance here, as will be shown presently, is not continuity
of business alone but of ownership and tax liability as
well. Had the transfer from one company to the other
been effected by an unconditional sale for cash there
would have been continuity of business, but not of ownership or tax liability.
Petitioner also insists that the ultimate parties in interest--stockholders and creditors--were substantially the
same after the transfer as before; and this may be conceded. But there is here no effort to tax either creditors
or stockholders. Other statutes, as also constitutional
provisions, have an important bearing on the taxation of
gains by stockholders through corporate reorganizations,
and the cited decisions relating to that subject' are 'not
presently apposite. What is being taxed in this instance is.
the income realized by the new company in conducting the
business after the transfer; and the sole matter for decision is whether, under § 204 (b), there shall be deducted'
from that income the losses suffered by the old company
in its conduct of the same business before the transfer.
The Board of Tax Appeals, 24 B.T.A. 886, and th6
Circuit Court of'Appeals, 66 F. (2d) 480, both ruled that
the deduction is not admissible under the statute.
1 United States v. Phellis, 257 U.S. 156; Rockefeller v. United
States, 257 U.S. 176; Cullinan v. Walker, 262 U.S..134; Weiss v.
Steam, 265 U.S. 242; Marr v. United States, 268 U.S. 536.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

The power to tax income like that of the new corporation is plain and extends to the gross income. Whether
and to what extent deductions shall be allowed depends
upon -legislative grace; and only as there is clear provision therefor can any particular deduction be allowed.
The, statutes pertaining to the determination of taxable income have proceeded generally on the principle
that there shall be a computation of gains and losses on
the basis of a distinct accounting for each taxable year;
and only in exceptional situations, clearly defined, has
there been provision for an allowance for losses suffered
in an earlier year. Not only so, but the statutes have disclosed a general purpose to confine allowable losses to
the taxpayer sustaining them, i.e.; to treat them as personal to him and not transferable to or usable by another.
Obviously, therefore, a taxpayer seeking a deduction
must be able to point to an applicable statute and show
that he comes within its terms.
These views, often reflected in decisions of this Court,
have been recently reaffirmed and applied in Woolford
Readty Co. v. Rose, 286 U.S. 319, 326 et seq.; Planters
Cotton Oil Co. v. Hopkins, 286 U.S. 332; and Helvering
v. Independent Life Ins. Co., ante, p. 371.
When § 204 (b) is read with the general policy of the
statutes in mind, as it should be, we think it cannot be
regarded as giving any support to the deduction here
claimed. It brings into the statutes an exceptional provision declaring that where for one year "any taxpayer
has sustained a net loss" the same shall be deducted from
the net income of "the taxpayers" for the succeeding
taxable year; and, if such loss be in excess of the income
for that year, the excess shall be deducted from the net
income for the next succeeding taxable year. Its words
are plain and free from ambiguity. Taken according to
their natural import they mean that the taxpayer who
sustained the loss is the one to whom the deduction shall

NEW COLONIAL CO. v. HELVERING.
435

441

Opinion of the Court.

be allowed. Had there been a purpose to depart from
the general policy in that regard, and to make the right
to the deduction transferable or available to others than
the taxpayer who sustained the loss, it is but reasonable to believe that purpose would have been clearly expressed. And as the section contains nothing which even
approaches such an expression, it must be taken as not
intended to make such a departure.
We come then to an alternative contention that, even
though the section be not as broad as claimed, the deduction should be allowed, because "for all practical pur-.
poses the new corporation was the same entity as the old
one and therefore the same taxpayer." This is not in
accord with the view on which the stockholders and creditors proceeded when the new company was brought into
being. They deserted the old company and turned to the
new one because they regarded it as a distinct corporate
entity and therefore free from difficulties attending the
old one. Having sought and reaped the advantages incident to the change, it well may be that they would
encounter some embarrassment in now objecting to an
incidental and remote disadvantage such as is here in
question. But, be this as it may, we are of opiion that
in law and in fact the two corporations were not identical
but distinct. This was plainly implied in the transfer
of the assets and business from one to the other. That
transaction was voluntary and contractual, not by operation of law. Thereafter neither corporation had any
control over the other;' the old corporation had no interest in the assets or business, and the chance of gain and
the risk of loss were wholly with the new one. Thus the
contention that the two corporations were practically the
same entity and therefore the same taxpayer has no basis,
unless, as the petitioner insists, the fact that the stock'See Southern Pacific Co. v. Lowe, 247 U.S. 330, 337; Peabody v.
Eisner, 247 U.S. 347, 349; Gut Oil Corp. v. Lewellyn, 248 U.S. 71.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

292 U. S.

holders of the two corporations were substantially the
same constitutes such a basis.
As a general rule a corporation and its stockholders are
deemed separate entities' and this is true in respect of
tax problems.' Of course, the rule is subject to the qualification .that the separate identity may be disregarded in
exceptional situations where it otherwise would present an
obstacle to the due protection or enforcement of public or
private rights." But in this case we find no such exceptional situation-nothing taking it out of the general
rule. On the contrary, we think it a typical case for the
application of that rule.
The petitioner relies on Pioneer Pole & Shaft Co. v.

Commissioner,55 F. (2d) 861; Industrial Cotton Mills v.
Commissioner, 61 F. (2d) 291; and H. H. Miller Industries Co. v. Commissioner, 61 F. (2d) 412. The decisions
in these cases are not wholly in point but contain language
giving color to the petitioner's claim, and are to that
extent in conflict with other federal decisions, notably
Athol Mfg. Co. v. Commissioner, 54 F. (2d) 230; TurnerFarber-Love Co. v. Helvering, 68 F. (2d) 416; and the
decision now under review. In so far as they are not in
harmony with the views expressed in this opinion they
are disapproved.
Judgment affirmed.
8Pullman Car Co. v. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co., 115 U.S. 587,
596-597; Donnell v. Herring-Hall-Marvin Safe Co., 208 U.S. 267,
273; United States v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., 238 U.S. 516,
527-529; Cannon Mfg. Co. v. Cudahy Co., 267 U.S; 333; Klein v.
Board of Supervisors, 282 U.S. 19, 24.
"Klein v. Board of Supervisors, 282 U.S. 19, 24; Dalton v. Bowers,
287 U.S. 404, 410; Burnet v. Clark, 287 U.S. 410, 415; Burnet v.
Commonwealth Improvement Co., 287 US. 415, 418-420.
' United States v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 220 U.S. 257, 272-274;
Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Minneapolis Civic Assn., 247 U.S.
490, 500-501; Southern Pacific Co. v. Lowe, 247 U.S. 330, 337-338;
Gulf Oil Corp. v. Lewellyn, 248 U.S. 71.

