JANUARY TERM, 1846.

465

Brown i). The Union" Bank of Florida.

THoL&s BROWN, PrAINTIFF IN ERRORt, V. THE UNION BAxN
DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

OF FLORIDA,

Where there has been no service of a citation, or no final judgment in the court
below, the case must be dismissed on motion.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Court of
Appeals for the Territory of Florida.
A motion was made by Mr.L. A. Thompson to dismiss it, upon
two grounds :1. Because there was no service of the citation upon the defendant in error.
2. Because the judgment of the Court of Appeals of Florida,
remanding the cause for a -new trial below, was not a final judgment.
The case was this.
.Onthe 5th of April, 1842, the. Union Bank of Florida brought
a suit against Thomas Brown, upon the following. single bill :"1 TALLAHASSEE, March 14th, 1841.
"1Dolls. $ 22,266 4.
"One month after date I promise to pay to the Union Bank of
Florida, at their banking-house, in the city of Tallahassee, twentytwo thousand two hundred sixty-six 3 dollars, for value received;
for securing payment whereof, I do hereby pledge my shares in the
capital stock of said bank. Witness my hand and seal.
THOMAS BROWN. [L. S.]"

The defendant pleaded the general.issue, four special pleas, and
payment. To the pleas of the general issue and payment, the
plaintiff filed a general repliqation ; a general demurrer to the second, third, and fourth, and a special demurrer to the fifth plea.
These demurrers were all sustained, and the cause came on for
trial upon the general replication to the first and sixth pleas. The
plaintiff made fourteep prayers to the court, ten of which were
granted, and four refused. The defendant made two prayers, both
of which were granted. The court then gave eight instructions to
the jury. Under all these directions, the jury found a verdict for
the defendant. TIje plaintiff excepted to the refusal of the court
to grant his four prayers, to the granting of the two asked by the
defendant, and to -five out of the eight instructions given by the
court.

The case went up to the Court of Appeals of Florida, which,
on the 20th of February, 1844, gave the following judgment :" It seems to the court here, that there is error in said judgment.
Therefore, it is considered by the court, that the said judgment be
reversed and annulled ; and it is further ordered, that the verdict
59
VOL. IV.

466

SUPREME

COURT.

Brown v. The Union Bank of Florida.

rendered in this cause be set aside, and that this cause be remanded
to the court below, with instructions to said court to award a venire
facias do novo, for a new trial of the issues to be had therein, and
that the plaintiff in error recover against the 'defendant in error
$
his costs by him about his said writ of error herein expended ; which is ordered to be certified to the court below."
From this judgment, a writ of error brought the case -up to this
court.
The motion to dismiss was made and sustained by ffr. Thompson and JMr. C. Cox, on behalf of the defendant in error, and
opposed by JIr Brockenborbugk and ,Mr. Eaton, on behalf of the
plaintiff in error.
.Mr. 'hompson, to sustain the first ground of dismissal, namely,
that no citation had been served, cited Conk. Pr. 446, and 1 Cranch,
365.
And in support of the second ground, namely, that the judgment
was not final, cited 3 Story's Laws, 2224 ; 8 Laws United States,
707 ;- Bingh. on Judgments, 3 ; 4 Dallas, 22 ; 3 Wheat. 433 ; 12
Wheat. 135; 3 Dallas, 48 ; 4 Wheat. 73 ; 6 Wheat. 448.
JMr. Brockenborough, in opposition to the motion, contended
that the writ of error was sued out in open court, in which case no
citation was necessary; that the *actof 1832 placed writs of error
and appeals on the same footing, and cited and commented on the
acts of 1832 (4. Story, 2330), 1803, 2 Cranch, 349, 7 Peters,
220 ; act of 1826, 3 Story, 2024.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion is mad? to 'dismiss this writ pf error, because the
judgment of the court below was not final, and there has been no
service of the citation.
The judgment below reversed the
The motion is granted.
judgment of an inferior court, and remanded the cause to that
court, with instructions to award a venire facias de novo ; it was,
therefore, not a final judgment, on which only a writ of error can
issue.
Order.
-This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Court of Appeals for the Territory of Florida, and it
appearing on, the motion of Mr. Thompson, of counsel for the defendant in error, that there has been no service of the citation in this
cause, it is therefore now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that this .cause be, and the same is, hereby dismissed, with costs.
January 12th.

