336

SUPREME

COURT.

Harris v. Robinson.
BFNAxN

D.

HARRIS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JAMES ROBINSON, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

In the case of a protested note, it is not necessary for the holder himself to give
notice to the indorser, but a notary or aiy other agent may do it.
The object of the rule which requires the notice to come from the holder isto enable
him, as the only proper party, either to fix or waive the liability ofindorsers.
Where a note Was handed to a notary for protest by a bank, and it did, not appear
whether the bank or the last indorser was the real holder of the note, and the
notary made inquiries from the cashier and others not unlikely to know, respecting the residence of the prior indorsers, and then sent notices according to the
information thus received, it was sufficient to bind such prior indorsers.
If the last indorser was the holder, the cashier of the bank was his agent for collecting tIe note, and the evidence showed that, in fact the last indorser knew
nothing more than the cashier.
The cases on this subject examined.
The facts being found by a jury, the question, whether or not due diligence was
used, is one of law for the court.
If dae diligence is used in sending the notice to. the indorser, it is immaterial
whether it is received or not.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Alabama.
It was an action broi ght by the indorsee (Robinson) against an
indorser (Harris) of a 7romissory note.
Robinson, .the plaintiff below, was a citizen of the State of
Tennessee, and Harris a citizen of Alabama.
The note was as follows.
1; $ 1,600 0°.Eight months after date, we promise to pay Matth.
Burks, or order, sixteen hundred dollars ; payable and negotiable
at the Planters' Bank of the State of Tennessee, at Nashville, for
Dated in Lincoln county, Tennessee, 20th
value received.
November, 1837.
JOHN P. BURKS & Co."
(Signed,)
(Indorsed,) " Matth. Burks, Benj'n b. Harris, J. Robinson."
The note not being paid at maturity, Robinson, in September,
1839, brought his action against Harris, in the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Alabama, which, after
several interlocutory proceedings, came on for trial at May term,
1843.
The jury, under the instructions of the court, found a verdict for
the plaintiff in the sum of two thousand and sixty-iwo dollars and
sixty-six cents. It is impossible to give a clear idea of the instructions of the court without reciting all the circumstances of the
case to which the ifstructions referred. They are all stated in the
bill of exceptions, which is as follows.
The Bill of Exceptions.
In the District Court of the United States of America, for the
Northern District of Alabama.
In this case, the plaintiff brought his. action against defendant

JANI kRY TERM, 1846.

'

337

'Harris v. Robinson.

as indorser of a promissory note, and introduced the deposition of
Alpha Kingsley, which is as follows.
" Deposition of At. Kingsley.
"The said Alpha Kingsley, being about the age of sixty years,
and being by me first carefully examined, cautioned, and sworn to
testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing else but the truth,
makes oath; deposeth, and saith : that he resides in the city of Nashville, in the State of Tennessee, and more than one hundred miles
from Huntsville, aforesaid, the place of trial of this cause ; furthermore he saith, I am now a notary public of Davidson county, in
the State of Tennessee, and was such on the 23d day of July,
1838, duly qualified according to the laws of said State ; that 6n
that day there came into my hands, as notary public, a promissory
note, a true copy of which is herewith inclosed, marked A, and is
made a part of this my deposition ; that at or about three o'clock of
the said 23d day of July, 1838, I presented said promissory note
at the counter of the Planters' Bank of Tennessee, at Nashville,
where the same was payable, and demanded payment thereof, and
was answered by the teller of said bank that it would not be paid ;
whereupon, as notary public aforesaid, I did protest said promissory note, as well the drawers as the indorsers thereof, and duly
recorded the same in my notarial book, and on the evening of the
said 23d day of July, 1838, I deposited in the post-office,
at Nashville; Tennessee, in time to go by the first mail leaving'
Nashville after said demand and- protest, notices of said demand
and protest, directed, to John P. Burks & Co., Matth. Burks, and
Benjamin D. Harris, Madison county, A-labama, to each separately ; a copy of the notice so sent to -Benjamin D. Harris is here7
with to be inclosed, marked B, and is made a part of this my deposition. I was not, when these notices were forwarded, acquainted
with the residence of any of the parties thus protested, or their
nearest post-office ; and I made inquipy of those I thought were.
[not] unlikely to know, where would be the proper place to which
to direct notices to them ; I applied, I recollect, to Nicholas Hobson, cashier of the Planters' Bank, who informed me they-lived in
Madison county, Alabama, but could not say where their nearest
post-office was ; I also applied to Joseph Estell, who had resided
in Madison county, and also had a very general acquaintance there ;
he likewise informed me, that they all lived in Madison county, but
did not know their nearest post-office. I knew of no other source
from whence to derive information as to where to direet, and accordingly directed said notices I Madison county, Alabama,' knowing that, from the general rules of the post-office department, they
would be sent to Huntsville, the county seat.
ALPHA KINGSLEY."
(Signed,)
VOL. IV.

43

cc

SUPREME COURT.

338

Harris v. Robinson.

Copy of Note.
to in Alpha Kingsley's deposition, as
referred
(Copy of the note,
marked A.)
,, 1,600

,.

Eight months after date, we promise to pay Matth.

Burks, or order, sixteen hundred dollars ; payable and negotiable
at the Planters' Bank of the State of Tennessee, at Nashville, for
value received. Dated in Lincoln county, Tennessee,'20th
November, 1837.
-JOHN P. BURKS & Co."
(Signed,)
(Indorsed,) " Matth. Burks, Benj'n D. Harris, J. Robinson."
(Copy of the notice, made part of Alpha Kingsley's deposition.- B.)
"MNashville, 23d July, 1838.

"Mr. BENJAMIN D. HARRIS :
" Please to take notice, that a note drawn by John P. Burks &
Co., payable at the Planters' Bank of Tennessee, at Nashville,
eight months after date, to the order of Matt. Burks, by him, you,
and J. Robinson indorsed, for the sum of sixteen hundred dollars,
dated the 20th day of November, 1837, was this day proiested by
me for non-payment, and the holder looks to you for payment as
indorser thereof.
"Respectfully, your obedient seryant.
" ALPHA KINGSLEY, .Notary Public."
And defendant introduced the deposition of N. Hobson, which
is as follows.
" Deposition of .N Hobson.
"cInterrogatories to Nicholas Hobson, on the jart of the defendant.
"1 . Were you acquainted with the defendant, Benjamin D..
Harris, in the years 1837 and 1838 ?
" 2. Do you know whether said Benjamin D. Harris resided in
Tennessee or Alabama, in 1837 and 1838 ?
" 3. Have you any recollection of ever telling Alpha Kingsley,
notary public, that the said Benjamin D. Harris resided in Madison
coirnty, Alabama, in 1838 ?
"4. Were you acquainted with the plaintiff, James Robinson ? if
so, state where he resided in 1837 and 1838.
" First. I was not acquainted personally with Benjamin D. Harris in 1837 and 1838.
" Second. I do not know whether said Harris resided in Tennessee or Alabama in 1837 and 1838.
" Third. I have no recollection of A. Kingsley having applied to
me in reference to this particular case ; he often made application

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

339

Harris & Robinson.

to me in regard to the residence of persons living in Alabama; I
know that there are a great many of the name of Harris residing
in Madison county, Alabama; and from the fact of the drawers
of the note living in Madison county, I may have told the notary
public what my belief was as to the -residence of Mr. Harris, but
not from any personal knowledge I had of his residence.
"Fourth. I was acquainted with the plaintiff, James Robinson,
lie resided in Nashville in the years 1837 and 1838.
(Signed,)
N. HOBSON."
Also, the deposition of Joseph Estell, which is as follows.
C

The-Deposition of Joseph Estell.

Quegtion by defendant. Were you acquainted with the defendantin.the years 1837 and 1838 ?
" Answer. I was, and for some time before.
" Question by same. Do you know whether the defendant resided in Tennessee or Alabama in 1837 and 1838 ?
"dAns. I understood that he resided in Alabama in 1837 and
1838. I never saw him in Alabama, and how it was that-I understood that he resided in Alabama in these years I canno now
.recollect; but such was my belief of his place of residence.
"By same. Have you any recollection of telling Alpha Kingsley, notary public, that the defendant resided in Madisonh county,
Alabama, in 1838 ?
"iAn#. I have no recollection that I ever told Alpha Kingsley
that the defendant resided in Madison county, Alabama, in the year
1838 ; Mr. Kingsley has often inquired of us, that is, of my
brother, while living, and myself, as to the residence of persons in
Alabama, but my recolletion does not serve me as to the name of
any of those about whom ie made inquiries.
" By same. Were you acquagntdd with James Robinson ? if so,
state where he resided in 1837, 1838.
"dAns. I was acquainted with James Robinson ; he resided in
Nashv .le, Tennessee, in the years 1837 and 1838.
(Signed,)
JOSEPH ESTELL."
Defendant also introduced Joseph Brddley as a witness, who
proved that, previous:to the maturity of said note, plaintiff had directed to him at Huntsville, Madison county, Alabama, notices to
all the parties to the note, requesting him to hand them to the defendant and the'other parties, the notices being intended to remind
them when the said note would fall due. Witness directed the no-ices to the post-offices of the parties respectively, and to defendant at his post-office at Cross Roads, Madison county, Alabama ;
but the notices of protest of said note were not sent to witness ;
witness acted as plaintiff's friend'in the matter ; there was no evi-

SUPREME COURT.
Harris r. Robinson.

dence to show, that the fiotary knew who was the holder of the
bill, or where he resided.
The court instructed the jury, that if they believed that the notary madv the inquiries stated in his depositions, and sent notice to
defendant as therein stated, he being ignorant of his true residence,
that the notice was sufficient to charge the defendant, and that, under the circumstances of the case as proved, it was not necessary
to make inquiry of the holder of the note as to the residence of the
indorser: to which instructions the defendant excepts, and prays
the court to sign and seal this bill of exceptious, which is done accordingly.
WM. CRAWFORD. [SEAL.]
The cause was argued by Mr. Crittenden, for the plaintiff in
error, and Mr. Brinley, for the defendant in error.
.o. C(rtfenden.
It is insisted, on the part of Harris, that the instruction given by
the court is erroneous :Ist. In making the sufficiency of the notice depend exclusively on
the jury's belief of the circumstances stated in the deposition of
Kingsley.
2d. In instructing the jury, " that, under the circumstances of
the case, it was not necessary (for the notary) to make inquiry of
the holder of' the note as to the residence of the iridorser."
Harris, on the contrary, insists that " the circumstances of the
case )7werelthese, namely, that Robinson was the holder of the note ;
that he was known as sbich to the notary ; that he lived in Nashville at the time, and might have been easily and immediately found,
and could, in all probability, have given the required infoimation as
to the residence of Harris, and the post-office nearest to him. It
is insisted that all these circumstances are proved by or deducible
from the evidence ; and .that it ought to have been left to the jury,
with the instruction, that, if they believed all these circumstances to
have existed, then that it was necessary for the notary to have
made inquiry of the holder of the note as to the residence of the
defendant, Harris ; and that if, in consequence of his nieglecting to
make that inquiry, he misdirected the notice to Harris, then that
such misdirected notice is not due notice, or such as entitled the
said -RFobinson to'fecover in this action.
- •The general law is, that the holder must give notice. The noiary ira mere agent of his. The inquiry as to Harris's residence
ought to have been made fror'i Robingin, who lived in Nashville.
Story on Bill, 334, § 309 ; Chitty on Bills (8th edit.), ch. 10,
pp. 515, 516, 524, 525 ; Bayley on Bills (5th edit.), ch. 7, § 21
pp. 280- 283.
If the holder does not know, he should inquire. Much more)

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

341

Harris v. Robinson.

thdn, should the notary. A notice is more than a mere matter of
form, for it might have enabled Harris to save the debt.
Mr. Brinly, for defendant-in error, stated the case and then
proceeded.
1st. A demand of payment of a note should be made on the last
day of grace, and notice of the default of the maker be put into the
post-office, if he live in another place,'early enough to be sent by
the mail of the succeediigg day. Lenox v. Roberts, 2 Wheat. 363.
2d. If there be no post-office in the town where the indorser resides, the notice may be qexit through the post-office to the postoffice nearest to his residence. Freeman v. Boynton, 7 Mass. R.
483 ; Ireland v. Kip, 11 Johns. R. 231.
3d. The putting of notice into the post-office is sufficient, without proof of its having been actually received. Munn v. Baldwin, lMass. R. 316 ; Miller v, Hackley, 5 Johns. R. 375 ;
Dickins v. Beal, 10 Peters, 572 ; I Bell's Comm. (5th edit.) 418.
4th. if due diligence be used to give notice to the indorser, and
he cannotibe found, this is equivalent to due notice. Stewart v.
Eden, 2 Caines's R. 121 ; Smyth v. Hawthorn, 3 Rawle, 355;
1 Bell's Conim. (5th edit.) 418.
5th. If the indorsee is ignorant of the indorser's place of abode,
it is an excuse for not giving him notice ; and then it becomes a
question of fact, whether he used due diligence to discover it.
Bate'man v. Joseph, 12 East, 433.
6th. Whether due. notice has been given, all the circumstances
necessary for the giving of such notice being known, is a question
of law; and the court will determine upon the facts. Where the
facts are contested, the question of law becomes mixed with fact,
and is for .the decision- of the jury, under instructions from the
court -upon -the' hypothetical state of facts, claimed to be proved.
Eagle Bank v. Chapin, 3 Pick. 180 ; Bank of North America v.
Pettit, 4 Dallas, 127 ; Robertson et al. v. Vogle, :1 Dallas, 252 ;
Husseyv. Freeman, 10 Mass. R. 86 ; Brydenv. Bryden, 11 Johns.
R. 187 ; Davis v. Herrick, 6 Ohio Rep. 55 ; Bank of Utica v.
Ben*der, 21 Wend. 643 ; Bank of Columbia v. Lawrence, I Peters, 578 ; Dickins v. Beal, 10 Peters, 572.
7th. The defendant except6d to that portion of the opinion of the
court below which niaintained, that it was not netessary to make
inquiry of the holder of tho note as to the residence of the indorser.
The inference is, that had such inquiry been made, the requisition of due diligence'would be satisfied. The inference is sustained by the authorities. But there is no case which decides that
such an inquiry of tlhe holder is indispensable ; they decide that
such an inquiry is proof of due diligence, not that it is the only
proof of such' diligence ; that -it is sufficient, not that it is indispensable. For instance, inquiry of one of the parties to a bill-as to
cc *

342

SUPREME COURT.
Harris v. Robinson.

the residence of the indorser is due diligence. Beveridge v. Burgis, 3 Camp. 262.
,The holder of a bill, as indprsee, went to the house of his immediate indorser? to inquire the residence of the first indorser, and
1t was helf to be due diligence. Batemanv. Joseph, 2 Camp. 461.
Where the notary made inquiry of the second indorser as to the
residence of the first indorser, who informed him that potice to an
office in a post town, which, it seems, was three miles and a half
from the first indorser, and where he did not receive his papers
and letters, it was held to be due diligence. Ransomyv. Mack, 2
Hill, 587.
Where the holder, before the note became due, applied to one
of the parties to ascertain the residence of the indorser, and he declined giving him any information, the holder was not obliged, after
the bill became due, to renew his inquiries of that pailty. Firth v.
Thrush, 8 Barn. & Cressw. 387.
8th. There is no evidence to show that the notary knew who was
the holder of the note. He had a right to infer that it belonged to
the Planters' Bank ; he accordingly inquired of the cashier where
the parties lived, that he might notify them, and duly mailed notices of protest to Madison county, Alabama, their supposed place
of residence. This was sufficient.
Notice of non-payment to an indorser was left at his boardinghouse, where he was reported to reside ; but it seems, some weeks
before the note fell due, he left Philadelphia for Europe, without
the knowledge of the holder of the note. The notice.was sufficient, as reasonable diligence had been used to ascertain the residence of the indorser., M'Murtrie v. Jones, 3 Wash. C. C.
tep. 206.
A bill was drawn and dated at New York, on persons residing
ii that city, who accepted it. The 'drawers resided in Petersburg,
Virginia. The bill being protested for non-pavment, two Jetters
were put into the post-offce, giving notice to the drawers, one directed to New York, and the other to Norfolk, Virginia, the supposed place of their residence. It was holden that this was sufficient notice, inasmuch as it did not appear that the holder knew
where the drawers lived, and notice had been directed to their supposed placeof residence. Chipman v. Liscombe, 1 Johns. R. 294.
Besides, there was no evidence to show that the notary, in the
case under consideration, knew who was the holder of the bill, or
where he resided.
If, after reasonable diligence on the part of the holder, the residence of the indorser cannot be ascertained, an excuse is furnished
for a failure to give notice. The rule in such cases is, not that it
is sufficient'to send the notice to the last place of residence of the
indorser, or to the place at which the bill or note bears date, but
that it is sufficidnt to send it-to the office believed to be the proper

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

343

Harris v. Robinson.

one, from information acquired, upon due diligence to ascertain it.
'Hoopes & Bogart v. Newman, Executor, 2 Smedes & Marshall's
Rep. 71 (Mississippi Rep., January term, 1844), cites Chitty on
Bills, 486 ; Nichol v. Bate, 7 Yerger, 305 ; Chipman v. Lipscombe, 1 Johns. R. 294.
9th. But suppose that the notary, knowing that Robinson was
the holder of the Itote, had applied to him for information, wnat
would have been his answer in regard to the residence of the parties ? Undoubtedly it would have been, that to the best of his
knowledge they resided at Huntsville, Madison county, Alabama.
The defendant introduced Joseph Bradley as a witness, Who
,proved, that, previous to the maturity of the note, Robinson had
directed to him, at Huntsville, notices to all the parties to *the
note, requesting him to haid them to Harris and the parties, to remind them when the note would fall due.
There is nothing to prove that Robinson was informed that they
were delivered to any place other than Huntsville. Of course,
had the notary known that Robinson was the holder, and cor'sulted
him as to the residence of the parties, he must have answered, that
notices had better be sent to Huntsville. , The notary did so direct,
substantially ; that is, he directed the notices, " Madison county,
Alabama," knowing that, from the general rules of the post-office
department, they would be sent to Huntsville, the county seat.'
. 10th. There is no conflict between the testimony of the notary,
and that of Messrs. Hobson and Estell ; the former swears that he
applied to them for information as to the residence of the parties ;
they could not recollect that he did in -this case in particular, because he often inquired as to the residence of persons living in Alabama. His positive testimbny, as to a fact which he was interested to ascertain, must be believed ; it more than counterbalances
their want of recollection, it being of no interest- to them to remember.
Chitty, in his Treatise on Bills (8th Amer. edit.), 486, says, that
"the holder of a bill of exchange is excused for not giving regular
notice of its being dishonored to an indorser, of whose place of
residence he is ignorant, if he use reasonable diligence to discover
where the indorser may be founf" ; nh.support of this undeniable
kosition, he cites Pothier de Change, n. 144. - The reasoning of
Pothier and of Pardessus (Droit Com., tom. 2, art. 426), in the
opinion of Judge Story (in his Commentaries on the Law of Bills
of Exchange, 350, 351), covers the case stated by Chitty, thoughthey both treat in those sections of the force majzur.vis major) as
an excuse for a non-compliance by the holder with the requisites
of law, and not upon the question of ignorance of residence. The
continental and civil law, which is identical with the common law
and common sense, do not require impossibilities.. The law does
not presume that the holder of the paper is acquainted with the resi-

344

SUPREME COURT.
Harris v. Robinson.

dence of the indorsers ; and if the notary or holder, after diligent inquiry as to the residence of the indorser, cannot ascertain it, or mis.
takes it, and gives the notice a wrong direction- the remedy against
the indorser is not lost. 3 Rent's Comm, 107 ; Barr v. Marsh,
9 Yerger, 253 ; Story on Bills of Exchange, 334-347, in
notes. The rule of due diligence "must not be such as to clog
commercial operations." Bank of Columbia v. Lawrence, 1
Peters, 578.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the majority of the court.
Under the bill of exceptions in this case, the proper practice
in some important particulars respecting notices of non-payment
of promissory notes and bills of exchange is involved. It appears
that the defendant was indorser of such a note, and at the trial the
court instructed the jury, that if they believed that the notary
made the inquiries stated in his depositions, and sent notice to the
defendant as therein stated, he being ignorant of his true residence,
thaf the notice was sufficient to charge the defendant, and that,
under the circumstances of the case as proved, it was not necessary to make inquiry of the holder of the note as to the residence
of the indorser ; to which instructions the defendant excepts.
The substance of the inquiries which were made, as shown in
the depositions, was, that the note, being "piible and negotiable
at the Planter's Bank of the State of Tennessee, at Nashville,"
tl-a notary, after presenting it.and payment being refused, inquired
of those " not unlikely " to know the residences or nearest postoffices of the indorsers, as they were not known to him. He recollects,as one of whom he inquiredthe cashier of the bank, and was
informed by him that Harris lived in Madison county, Alabama,
but that he did ,not know his nearest post-office. The notary
made similar inquiries of a Mr. Esteil, who had resided in Madison
county, but was found to be ignorant of the defendant's nearest
post-office ; and the notary adds, that, knowing "no other source
•from whence to derive information as to where to direct" the notice, he "accordingly directed" this and others "to Madison
county, Alabama, knowing that, from the, general rules of the postoff ice department, they would be getit to Hintsville, the county
seat."
The only " other circumstances of the case as proved," to
which the judge probably refers, are, that the namd of the present
laintiff appears on the back of the note as-the last indorser; that
he was then an inhabitant of.Nashville; and that Joseph Bradley,
a witness for the defendant, testified, that before the note reached
maturity, he, then living at, Huntsville, received notices from Robinson for Harris. and the other indorsers, " requesting him to hand
them to the defendant and the other parties, " in order I t remind

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

345

Harris v. Robinson.

them when said note would fall due," and that he directed the notice for Harris to his post-office at Cross Roads, in Madison county.
It is further stated, as a part of the case, "there was no evidence to show that the notary knew who was the holder of the
bill, or where he fesided."
These being the facts as proved concerning the inquiries and
circumstances to which the judge refers, he properly considered it a
question of ldaw, whether, upon those facts, if believed by the jury,
it was necessary to make inquiry of the holder himself as to the
residence of the indorsers, and whether the notice as given was in
all respects sufficient to charge the defendant. Bank of Columbia
v. Lawrence, 1 Peters, 583 ; 10 Peters, 581 ; Bryden v. Bryden,
11 Johns. R. 187 ; Hadduck v. Murray, 1 New Hamp. R; 140.
It is to be regretted, that some other facts were not agreed orreferred to the jury; such as the distance of the residence of the defendant, as well as of the Cross Roads post-office, from Huntsville;
whethei' he was accustomed to receive letters at the former ptkie;
and who in truth was the holder -of the note at the time- it fil due.
But the judge properly submitted.to the jury whatever facts tlie parties chose to present ; and it is usually the best course thus to submit
complicated questions of law and fact, accompanying them, how.
ever, with due legal instructions as to"the rules which ought to
govern. 3 Kent's Comm. 107. Then the instructions can as
easily be revised as if the case was withdrawn from th6 jury; and,
what is very desirable, the rules as to commercial paper can be
preserved as uniform over the commercial world, and the holders
of it have, as they ought to have, a fixed standard, on a like state
of facts, for protecting as well as knowing their rights. 11 Johns.
R. 187 ; 1 D. & E. 168 ; I New Hamp. R. 140.
The first objection that has been raised under the instruction
or ruling of the court is, that the notice does not appear to have.
been given by the holder of the note. There is no evidence here
to indicate any person except Robinson or the bank as the holder
at that time, and probably at the trial it was taken for granted to
be one of them, without making any point concerning it to the
court or jury. Whichevdr it .was, there is no pretence but that
the notary came into possession of the note from the agent of the'
holder lawfully, and with a view, as agent, to make the demand, and:
if not paid to give duo notice. When notes are left at banks for
collection, the notaries may often be ignorant of the names of the
holders, as the notes are handed to them by the cashier. He
would as 'properly. do this business when employed by an agent
of the holder, as by the holder himself; and having the note in
either of these ways, he would be competent in law to deliver it
up if paid, or, if not paid, to give notice of that fact to the indorsers. It has been adjudged, tlat any agent of the holders may
give notice. Chitty on Bills, 527 ; Bank of. Utica v. Smith, 18
VOL. Iv.

44

34

SUPREME COURtT.
Harris v. Robinson.

Johns. R. 239, in point; Stewart v. Kennett, 2 Camp. R. 177,
by Lord Ellenborough, 178 ; 3 Kent's Comm. 108 ; Stanton et al.
v. Blossom et al., 14 Mass. R. 116 ; 7 ibid. 486 ; 9 ibid. 423.
The agent to collect the rote may do it. Mead v. Engs, 5
Cowen, 303 ; 3 Bos. & Pull. 599 ; 2 Taunt. 38 ; .15 East, 291 ;
9 East, 347; I-Camp. R. 349; Ogden et al. v. Dobbin et al., 2
Hall's Rep. 112.
And in 9 Yerger, 255, it was decided that a notary public is
a suitable agent for this purpose . It was done by a notary of the
agent in 2 Hall, 112.
The meaning of the rule that the holder must give notice is,
not that he may not do it by an agent, as any other commercial
act, but that it shall not be given by some other party on the bill
not standing in the relation in which the holder does, and who has
no right to give it and try to make the indorser responsible when
the, holder may be willing to waive a resort to him. Tindal v.
Brawn, 1 D. & E. 170; 7 Ves. jr. 597; 1 Esp. R. 333. In
this case the notice is express,' that "the holder looks to youi for
payment as indorser" of the bill, and the notary had the note in
his possession (11 East, 117 ; 2 Camp. 178)'in order to make
demand and give notice in behalf of the holder.
The only "'maining questions which are material are, whether
any farther iiquiry, and especially of the holder of the note, ought
to have been made by the notary, as to the regidence of the indorsers, before despatching the notices, and whether the notices sent
were sufficient, considering the information he obtained, and his
ignorance of the true residence of the indorsers. It was a part of
the evidence, that the inlorsers lived remote in another State, and
that the notary was ignorant of the exact places of their abode.
Under such circumstances, he was undoubtedly bound to make
inquiries of persons likely to be acquainted with their residences.
This he did ; and, among them, of the cashier of the bank, the person
most likely to be acquainted with the pldce of abode of those making
paper negotiable and payable at the bank, and of another person who
had lived in the same county with the indorsers, and not getting
entire certainty from either, he sent the notices, addressed as accurately as his informatioD enabled him, ,to the county where they
lived, and from the capital of which the notices would be likely to
be forwarded to the indorsers.
This, in most cases, might be sufficient as- to inquiry, and especially where nobody was known to reside near who was able and
bound to give fuller and more accurate information on that subject.
It would usually satisfy a jury that the due diligence had been --exercised which, and which only, ihe law imposes. Chitty on Bills,
525 (8th Amer. ed.); 2 Camp. 461. But it is argued in this case,
that the holder probably liv-ed in Nashville, and could and ought to
have been resorted to on this occasion for such information.

JANUAR:Y TERM; 1846.

247

Harris v. Robinson.

Chitty on Bills, 525. This argument is not without forceahd might
be insuperable if the notary knew who the holder was, and. did not'
obtain otherwise all the intelligence'on this subject which the holder
probably possessed. But the evidence not showing that he knew
him, did he resort to the holder's agent, and obtain from him all
the information on this point which the holder himself was likely to
have possessed ?
Supposing the bank to have been the holder, the cashier, its,agent, was resorted to,.'and doubtless' gave all the intelligence in
possession of the bank on this subject.
But supposing Robinson to have been the holder, which is the
only other probable presumption on the -evidence, and which is
contended for by the defendaut, and then the cashier was doubtless.
his agent.to collect the note,'and receiVed from Robinson all he
knew as to the. residences of the prior indorsers, and' communicated it to the notary when applying to him on the subject. This
is not only the general inference from what would be likely to take
place on such occasions, but is strengthened in this case from the
testimony of Bradley, on the part of the defendant, saying that"
Robinson; a short time prior, had sent notice to him at Huntsville
for these parties, stating when the note fell due, and that. he requested him to hand them to these indorsers. From this it is ob-"
vious that Robinson supposed they resided in Huntsville, or he
would have sent the notices to a different place ; and he would not
Probably have desired a resident of Huntsville to handdthem to the
indorsers, unless he believed they lived in the same place.
There can be little doubt, on this evidence, that the real bolder,
whether the bank or Robinson, .did give to the cashier all the information the holder possessed on this subject, and that the cashier
communicated the same to the notary, and that the latter would
have obtained no more had he known and resorted to the bolder in
person, and that the cashier, in conforming to this information, by
addressing notices to Madison county, supposing that, by the rules
of the post-office department, they would be sent to Huntsville,
the county town, did all which duty required 'of him.
Beside the light flung on this subject, and favorable'to this conclusion, by some of the general positions in the authorities cited at
the bar, there are several precedents which bear more directly on
a state of facts such as exists in this case, and which deserve special notice, as they fortify the correctness of the views we have
presented.
In Stewart v. Eden, 2 Canes, 12 1, the court ruled, that ihe holder was bound to inquire no further than a reasonable and prudent
man should, and said, "We do not exact from him every possible
exertion," or inquiry. Only "ordinary diligence" is required in
inquiring. Catskill Bank v. Stall, 15 Wend. 367. Only " reasonable diligence." Fisher v. Eyans, 5 Binney, 543. 90 in Chap.

•848

SUPREME COURT.
Harris v. Robinson.

man v. Lipscombe, 1 Johns. R. 294, where a bill was drawn and
dated in New York city, on persons there, and accepted, but protested afterwards for non-payrnent, and it did not appear that the
holder knew where the drawers lived, but sent two notices to them,
one addressed to New York and one to Norfolk, it was held that
they were good, though the drawer in fact lived in Petersburg.
In that case, inquiry was made at the banks and elsewhere, and
notice was sent in conformity with the information received ; but
he did not inquire of the acceptors, who lived in New York, and
could have told him correctly where the drawers lived.
In 3 Kent's Comm. 107, it is laid down, that notice need not always be sent to the post-office nearest to the indorser's residence.
It suffices, if sent to the nearest which can be ascertained on due
inquiry. And in 1 Peters, 578, and 2 Peters, 551,whereanotice like this was addressed to the indorser, as belonging to the
county in which he lived, the same fuile is recognized. It is true,
that there the party in fact resided near the county seat, .orreceived
some of his letters there, about which there is no particular proof
here ; but it is said to be proper to addressa iotice in that way, " if
after due inquiry it is the only description within reach of the petson sending the notice."
Itis enough to send the notices to the place where the information
received reasonably requires him to send them. 2 Car. & Payne,
300 ; 1 Barn. & Cressw. 243 ; Bank of Utica: v. Davidson, 5
Wend. 587. If the place it reaches is the wrong one, he is then
not in fault. 5 Yerger, 67. All his duty in this case is,
to use
"ordinary diligence " on the subject, and not to insure at all events
that the notice actually reaches the indorser. 1 Peters. 582; 10
ibid. 581.
In Barr et al. v. Marsh, 9 Yerger, 255, it was held, that the
holder was not bound or presumed to know where the indorser
lived. But it was enpugh if the agent of the indorsee or holder
made due inquiry, end directed the notices to the places indicated
by the lilforthation, though wrong. It was the best that could be
done under the circumstances. Nichol v. Bate, 7 Yefger, 307 ;
Dunlap v. Thompson et al., 5 Yerger, 67. Where so many postoffices exist, the residences of parties change so often, and people live so remote from' each other, as in this country, it would
clog the circulation of negotiable paper if the holder or his agent
was bound to know every alteration in the residence of indorsers.
*The inquiries were at the bank, and of other persons, in the case
of Barr v. Marsh, much as in this instance.
In Stur-ges et al. v. Derrick, Wightwick Exch. Cas. 77, an
inquiry was made of the son of an indorser as to his retidence, and
he did not know it, and the court- held, that " sufficient diligence
had been used." And inStuckert v. Anderson, 3 Wharton, 116,
the case itself on examination shows that an inquiry of the officers

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

349

Harris v. Robinson.
of the bank where the note was discounted is deemed sufficient, if
there be no others near who are likely to know more as to the
residence of the indorsers.
Some cases, it is true, have been more stringent, such as 13
Johns. R. 434, and 3 Camp. R. 262 ; but they do not contradict our
conclusions, as in the first ond the notice was sent to a wrong place
quite remote, and the inquiry is said to have been limited ; while in
the last, no inquiry was made except at the "house " where the
bill was payable. Most of the cases referred to on this point, of
due diligence in making inquiry, are rather cases as to due diligence
in respect to the time when the notices are sent.
Some of thos6, as bearing on this, allow a very liberal time to
make.inquiries where the residence is remote (2 Barn. & Cressw.
246 ; 8 ibid. 393 ; 2 Dowl. & Ryl. 385 ;,2 Mood. & Ry. 359) ;
and only require the notice to be sent as soon as information
is obtained-under proper exertion (1 Barn. & Cressw. 245 ;
Gow's 1R. 81 ; 2 Camp. R. 462).
And some go so fal as to
excuse giving notice at all, if the place of residence at the time is
unfixed (4 Camp. 285), or cannot be ascertained (10 Peters,
580, and 9 Wheat. 591, before quoted). In the case now under
consideration, then, the conclusion seems well sustained, that reasonable inquiries were made as to the residences of the indorsers,
and notices promptly despatched, by a proper agent, in conformity
with the information received. Whether the notices were actually
received or not, and whether, if received, it was not as soon as if
they had been directed to the Cross R6ads post-office, does not
appear, nor is it,
material, as the circumstances before mentioned
show due diligence, and thus make out a sufficient case, whether
the notices ever reached the indorsers-or not. Let the judgment
below be affirmed.
Mr. Justice McLEAN.
I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case with regret.
The Circuit Court instructed the jury, "that if they believed
that the notary made the inquiries stated in his deposition, and sent
notice to the defendant, as therein stated, he being ignorant of his
place of residence, that the notice was sufficient to.charge the defendant ; -and that under the circumstances of the case,, as proved, it
was not necessary to make inquiry of the holder of the note as to
the residence of the indorser."
The note was given by John P.Burks & Co. to Matth. Burks,for
sixteen hundred dollars, in eight months from its date, payable and
negotiable at the Planters' Bank of the State of -Tennessee, at
Nashville. It was indorsed by ]Matth. Burks, Beniamin D. HarriS,
the defendant below, and also by J. Robinson, the plaintiff. The
note does not imnear to have been negotiated at the bank. A.
Kingsley, the notary,mnade a demand of-payment at the bank when
VOL. IV.
DD

350

SUPREME COVRT.
Harris v. Robinson.

the note become due, but it does not appear who delivered it to
him. Notices of non-payment were directed by the notary to
Matth. Burks and Benjamin D. Harris, the tWo first indorsers, to
Madison county, Alabama.
He did not know where these indorsers resided, but Hobson,
the cashier of the bank, to whom he applied for information as to
their place of residence, informed him that they lived in the above
county and State. Similar information was communicated to him
by Joseph Estell, but neither of these individuals knew the postoffices nearest to the respective indorsers.
Bradley, a witness, stated, that, previous to the maturity of the
note, Robinson directed to him, at Huntsville, Madison county,
Alabama, notices to all tb parties to the note, requesting him to
hand them to Harris and the other parties, stating the time when
it would become due. And that witness directed the notices to the
respective post-offices of the parties. To Harris, he directed the
notice to the post-office at " Cross Roads," Madison county,
Alabama.
•On this state of facts, the court instructed the jury, "that the
notary was not bound to inquire of the holder as to the residence
of the indorsers."
The notary did not act for himself, but as agent of the bolder;
and it was proved that Robinson, who appears to. have been the
holder, resided in the same town with the notary, and knew the
proper direction for the notices. Now the holder is bound to give
the notice himself, or through his agent ; and can he evade the law
by employing an agent who is ignorant of the residence of the
indorser5 which is known to himself. He knows where the indorser resides ; is he not then bound to direct the notice as the law
requires ? It is a new principle in the law of agency, that the
knowledge of the principal shall not affect him, provided he can
employ an agent who has no knowledge on the subject. The holder
is bound to communicate to the notary all the knowledge he has,
so that the notice may be properly directed. And if this be not
done, aid the notice is improperly directed,. the holder loses his
recourse against the indorser. This seems to me to be clear of
all doubt.
In-the case of Preston v. Daysson et al., 7 Louisiana Rep. 7, it
was held, " that thd holder. of a bill or note ought not to avail him.self of the ignorance of the notary as to tthe residence of the indorsers in giving them notice of protest ; if he knows, he must disclose
their residence, or it seems that his neglect will discharge the indorsers." And this is the case now before the court.
There was no proof that the notary knew where Robinson, the
plaintiff below, resided ; but it is-proved that he lived in the same
town, his name being on the note, and from the fact that the notary
gave no notice to. him, as indorser, it is clear that he knew he was

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

351

Harris v. Robinson.

the holder. In Hill v. Varrell, 3 Greenl. 233, itwas held, "that
where the residence of the drawer of a bill is unknown to tife holder,
he ought to inquire of the other parties to the bill if their residence is
known to him." And in Hartford Bankv. Stednian, 3 Con, Rep.
489, 11 where the holder, who was ignorant of the indorser's residence, sent the notice to A., who was acquainted with it, requesting
him to add to the direction the indorser's place of residence, it was.
held sufficient."
", If the holder of a bill uses reasonable diligence to discover the
residence of an indorser, notice given as soon as this is discovered
is sufficient." Preston v.'Daysson etal., 7 Louisiana Rep. 7. In
Beveridge v. Burgis, 3 Camp. 262, Lord Ellenborough said, " Ignorance of the indorser's residence may excuse the want of due
notice, but the party must show that be has used reasonable diligence to find it out. Has he done so here ? How should it- be
expected that the requisite information should be obtained where
the bill was-payable ? Inquiries might have been made of the other
persons whose names appeared upon the bill," &c. In Bateman.
v. Joseph, 12 East, 433, "in an action by an indorsee against
the payees and first indorser of a bill, it appeared the plaintiff received notice of its dishonor on the 30th of September, in time to
give notice to the defendant on that day ; he gave no notice, however, until the 4th of October ; to excuse which, his clerk.proved
'that the plaintiff did not know the defendant's residence until that
day. Lord Ellenborough left it to the jury, whether the plaintiff
had used due diligence to find the defendant's residence."
In Story on Promissory Notes, 370, note 1, it is laid down,-'
"That merely inquiring at the house where a bill is payable is not
due diligence for finding out an indorser. Inquiry should be made
of some of the other parties to the bill or note, and of persons of
the same name." And again, in page 368, note, - " To excuse
the not giving regular notice of the dishonor of a bill to an indorser,
it is not enough to show that the holder, being ignorant of his residence, made inquiries upon the subject at the place where the bill
was payable ; he should have inquired of every other party to the
bill."
There is no pretence that the bank was the holder of this bill.
For the evidence showed that the notary did inquire of the cash £
ier of the bank where the indorsers resided. But the court
charged, that, under the circumstances, it was not-necessary for the
notary " to make inquiry of the holder of the note as to the residence of the indorspx "; the court, therefore, referred to Robinson as the holder, and not to the bank. This charge is wholly inconsistent with the supposition that the note was discounted by the
bank, for then it would have been the holder, and the proper inquiry, as to the.residence of the indorsers, was made of -it. The
note bears no marki of its having been discounted. That Robin-

352

SUPREME COURT.
Harris v. Robinson.

son was the holder appears from the notice he gave to the parties
when the note would become due, from the fact that he was not
notified as an indorser, and also that he commenced suit as the
holder, after the dishonor of the note.
The turning point in the case is, whether the holder, in failing to
give the proper direction to the notices by his agent, the notary, is
not answerable for the knowledge he possessed of the residences
of the indorsers, which he failed to communicate to the notary. I
care not whether or not Robinson knew the post-offices of the indorsers. He had communicated with them through Bradley, the
witness, and if the notices had been thus sent, the law required
nothing more.
It will be observed, that the cases cited show the duty of the
holder as to giving notice. And it is believed no case has
been reported, except the one cited from Louisiana Reports, where
it has been supposed that a principal having knowledge of the residence oT the indorsers could excuse himself from giving notice to
them by a want of such knowledge in his agent. That the notary
knew Robinson was the holder is conclusively shown, as before
remarked, by not treating him as an indorser. His name was
upon the note as an ir lorser, and he must have understood the
purpose for which the indorsement by him was made.
All the authorities say the holder is bound to use reasonable diligence to ascertain the residence of the indorser ; and when he
attains that knowledge, is he not governed by it ? And if so, is he
not equally bound to communicate it to his agent whom he may
employ to give the notice ? A denial of this principle will overthrow the doctrine of notice, as established for more than half a
century.
I think the judgment should be reversed, and the cause remanded for a venire de novo, in the Circuit Court.
Mr. Justice McKINLEY dissented also.

