JANUARY TERM, 1846.
Foxcroft r.

JOSErH E.

353

M-allett.

FoxcRoFT, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. DAVID MALLEII', DEFENDANT.

Where a township of land was granted to a college upon condition (amongst others) that the grantees should give security that they would plate a certain number of settlers on the land within a ceram time, 'the duty of placing settlers remained as a permanent charge upon the land, unless counteracted by express
agreements and special provisions between some of the subsequent grantees.
The second grantee, in his deed to a third grantee for an undivided 'portion of the
land, having " excepted and reserved certain lots," and conveyed the rest, "subject to the condition ttat the third grantee should perform his part of the settling
duties in proportion,.' and also, "that from the portion conveyed a part should
be taken, in the proportion which the part conveyed bore to the whole township,"
by this language limited the extent and nature of the graht.
Wherl this third grantee mortgaged *his interest, the -portion of land destined for
settlers did not pass by the mortgage; but when this portion was aflerwards lo.
cated according to law, a title accruea to the settler, paramount to a title held
under a foreclosure of the mortgage.
Whether the clause in the original grant be construed as an exception or reservs.tion, or as a condition, the result would be the same. The title to the iettlie1r
lots did not vest. in any of the persons through whom the grant passed, but remained as a charge upon the land, until the intentions 'of the legislature were
carried out by an actual settlement.
By appropri.ting these lots to settlers, no part ofthe security providedby the mortgage is withdrawn, because the mortgage itself must have contemplated such an
arrangement.
The mortgage being executed on the same day that the mortgagor received his title,,
and containing a reference to the deed to the mortgagor, both deeds may be considered parts of one transaction, and be construed together.
A decision of a State court upon the construction of a deed, as to matters and language belonging to the common law and not to any local statute, although entititled to high respect, is not conclusive upon this court.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the, District of laine.
It was a writ of right sued out by David '1Iallett, an inhabitant
of New Hampshire, demanding two lots od land situated in Lee,
in the county of'Penobscot, and State of Maine, being lots numbered eleven in the fourth range, and eleven in the fifth range,
containing two hundred acres, more or less, in said town of Lee.
As an illustration of the chain of title, on the part of both plaintiff and defendant, the reporter has prepared the two following diagrams, showing the title as exhibited upon 'the trial by thb plaintiff
and defendant respectively.

VOL, IV.

DD *€

354

SUPREME COURT.
Foxcroft w. Mallett.

M1ALLETT'S (PLAINTIFF BELOW AND DE.

:FmDAZT IN maoB) TITLE.

FoXCoRpu's (PLAmINTF I
mox) T

JANUARY TERM, 1846.-

355

Foxoroft. 9. Mallett.

On the 19th of February, 1805, tfie State of Massachusetts
passed the following resolution.
No. 1.
"Resolve on the Petition of the President and Trustees of Williams College, granting them a Totonship of Land, with a
Provso. February 19, 1805.
"The committee of both Houses, to whom was referred the petition of the President end Trustees of Williams College, praying
the aid of government to enable them to build a chapel for the performance of divine service, and for keeping the College library and
apparatus, havinig examined the .origin, rise, and progress of that
seminary, from its institution to the present time, together withfthe
aid. heretofore afforded by the government, and the existing state
of its funds, beg leave to observe, that the funds granted by the
original donor and the government have, in the opinion of the committee, been judiciously applied to the object of the institution, and
with success exceeding the most sanguine expectations, and that the
present state of the Cqllege affords a reasonable and pleasing expectation of its future extensive benefits to society, and that a
chapel, for the purposes above mentioned, would effectually promote the same ; and as the encouragement and grants of the government to that College have not been equal to those made to other
seminaries in the Commonwealth, the committee-ask leave to report
the fbllowing resolve, which is submitted by Ezra Starkweather,
per order.
"Resolved, For reasons set forth in the petition, that there be,
and hereby is,.granted one township of land, of the contents of
six miles square, to be laid out and as~igned from any of the unappropriated lhnds belonging to the Commonweaih in the District of
Maine, exceptibg the ten townships lately purchased of the Penobscot Indians, the same to be vested in the President and Trustees
of Williams College and their successors for ever, for the use,
benefit, and purpose of supporting the said College, to be by them
holden in their corporate capacity, with full j ower and auth6oity to
settle, divide, and manage the same, or to sell, convey, and dispose therebf, in such way and manner as shall best promote the
interest and welfare of said College ; the same to be laid out under
the direction of the committee for the sale of Eastern lands, at the
expense of the said corporation, and a plan thereof to be lodged
in the secretary's office.
" Provided, The trustees of said College, or their assigns, shall
cause to be settled fifteen families in said township within twelve
years from the passing of this resolve ; and also, that there be reserved in said township three lots, of three hundred and twenty
acres each, for the following uses ; namely, one lot for the first

356

SUPREME COURT.
Foxcroft v. Mallett.

settled minister ; one lot for the use of the ministry ; and one lot
for the use of schools, in said township."
And on the 27th of January, 1820, the following.
No. 2.
"Resolved, That the commissioners of the land-office be, and
they hereby are, authorized and empowered to satisfy a grant of a
township of land of the contents of six miles square, made by a
resolve of the nineteenth of February, eighteen hundred and five,
to the President and Trustees of Williams College, by locating the
same, and conveying the said corporation township number three, in
north of Bingham'_ Penobscot purchase, the same
the second
being numbered four, as surveyed by Alexander Greenwood.
Provided, said grantees, or their hssigns, shall first pay to said
.commissioners the expense of surveying and locating said township,
and give security to the Commonwealth in a manner satisfactory to
said commissioners, that they will, within one year from the passing of this resolve, cut out a road, two rods wide, from the termination of the road commonly called the St. John's Road (which
has been opened, under the direction of said commissioners, from
Penobscot River into township number two in the first range) to
said township to be conveyed, and clear a- travelled path therein
of one rod in width ; and that within two years they will clear a
like road through said township, so to be conveyed, and make the
necessary causeways and bridges thereon, all in a manner to be
directed by said commissioners ; and within three years will place
on said township thirty families as settlers, of the description named
in the act for promoting the sale and settlement of the public lands
in the District of Maine ; also reserving in said township the usual
public lots."
On the 15th of February, 1820, the commissioners executed a
deed to the College, in which they recite the preceding resolution
and proceed thus :"Now, therefore, know ye, that we, the undersigned, whose
seals are hereunto affixed, appointed commissioners for promoting
the sale and settlement of the public lands in the District of Maine,
conformable to an act passed the fifteenth day of February, eighteen hundred and sixteen, by virtue of powers vested in the undersigned, and pursuant to the resolve of the twenty-seventh day of
January, eighteen hundred anti twenty, herein recited, do by these
Iresents, in behalf of the Commonwealth aforesaid, assign, reinquish, and quitclaim to the President and Trustees'of William's
College, and their successors for ever, one township of land, of the
contents of six miles 9quare, lying "n the county of Penobscot, as
the same was surveyed by Alexander Greenwood, in the year of

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

357

Foxcroft v. Mallett.

our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eleven, bounded and
described as follows; namely, southerly on township number three,
in the first range ; westerly on located land ; northerly on unlocated
land ; and easterly on township numbered four, in the second range,
containing twenty-three thousand and forty acres ; conditioned,
however, that the said grantees, their successors and assigns, shall
lay out three lots of three hundred and twenty acres each, for public
uses. One lot for the first settled minister, his heirs and assigns ;
one lot for the use of the ministry ; and one lot for the use of
schools, in said township.
" To have and to hold the aforegranted premises to the President
and Trustees of Williams College, their successors and assigns, on
the conditions aforesaid, for ever. In witness whereof, we have
hereunto set our hands and affixed our seals, this fifteenth day of
February, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
twenty.
EDWARD H. ROBBINS.
[L. S.]
[L. s.]
LATHROP LEWIS.
JOSEPH LEE.
[L. s.]
"Signed, sealed, and delivered in presence of
SAM'L REDDINGTON.
GEORGE W.

COFFIN."

On the same day, namely, the 15th of February, 1820, the
treasurer of the College executed the following deed to Nathaniel
Ingersoll.
4CKnow all men by these presents, that I, Daniel Noble, of
Williamstown, in the county of Berkshire and Commonwealth of
Massachusetts, esquire, treasurer of the corporation of Williams
College, for and in consideration of the sum of four thousand six
hundred dollars, secured to be paid to said corporation by Nathaniel
Ingersoll, of the town of New Gloucester, in the county of Cumlerland and Commonwealth aforesaid, have given, granted, sold, and
conveyed, and by these presents, in behalf of said corporation, do
give, grant, sell, and convey unto the said Nathaniel Ingersoll, a
township of land lying in the county of Penobscot and Commonwealth aforesaid, and containing twenty-three thousand and forty
acres, as the same was surveyed by Alexander Greenwood, in
the year one thousand eight hundred and eleven, bounded and
described as follows ; namely, southerly on township number three
in the first range; westerly by ,inlocated land; northerly by unlocated land ; and easterly on township number four in the second
range, the same being township number three in the second
range of townships north of Bingham's Penobscot purchase, and
numbered four by said Greenwood; conditioned, however, that
the said Ingersoll, his heirs and assigns, shall lay out three lots of
three hundred and twenty acres each, for public uses ; one lot for

358

SUPREME COURT.
IFoxcr'oft

v. Mallett.

the first settled minister, his heirs and assigns ; one lot for the use
of the mihiistry ; and one lot for the use of schools in said townqhip.
To have and to hold the aforegranted premises to the said Nathaniel
Ingersoll, his heirs and assigns for ever, on the condition aforesaid ;
and the said Daniel Noble, treasurer of the corporation of Williams
College, covenants with the said Nathaniel Ingersoll, that be has
good right to sell and convey the premises aforesaid, and that said
corporation shall warrant and defend the same, on the condition
aforesaid, to the said Ingersoll, his heirs and assigns for ever,
against the lawful claims and demands of all persons.
."In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and affixed
the seal of the corporation of Williams College, this fifteenth day
of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and twenty.
DANIEL NOBLE.
[L. s.]"
Signed, sealed, and delivered in presence of us, -the word
'each' being first interlined in the twenty-sixth line of the first page.
LATHROP LEwis.GEORGE W.

COFFIN."

Suffolk 8s.
Boston, 16th February, 1820.,
" Then personally appeared the honorable Daniel Noble, in his
said capacity as treasurer of said corporationi and freely and voluntarily subscribed his name and affixed the seal of said corporation
as thd act and deed of said corporation, and delivered the same
before me.
GEORGE W. COFFIN, Justice of the Peace."
C

This last deed, although executed in 1820, was not delivered to
Ingersoll until June 5th, 1827, being deposited, in the mean time,
with the agent of the College, 'as an escrow.
On the same day, namely, the 15th of February, 1820, Ingersoll
conveyedto William Hodgkins, one undivided forty-sixth part of
the township, saving and reserving out of said forty-sixth part, so
called, one forty-sixth part of the lands reserved in the grant of
said township to the President and Trustees of Williams College,
for public uses.
On -the 17th of March, 1820, Ingersoll, with eight other persons,
executed to the treasurer of Massachusetts a bond, in the penalty of
three thousand dollars, with the following condition, namely :"The condition of the above obligation is such, that whereas
the above .Nathaniel Ingersoll, and others above named, have become the assignees of a township of land, being numbered three, in
the second range of townships north of Bingham's Penobscot purchase, the same being numbered four, as surveyed by Alexander
Greenwood, and the same that was conveyed by the commissioners
of the land-office, the fifteenth day of February last, to the President, and Trustees of Williams College, conformable to a resolve,

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

359

Foxcroft v. Mallett.

passed the twenty-seventh day of January, eighteen hundred .and
twenty, and as such have paid the expense of surveying and
locating said township. If, therefore, the said Nathaniel Ingersoll,
Roger Merrill, Jonathan Page, Thomas Merriman, Thomas Skofield, Jacob Randall, Simeon Tryon, Jacob Davis, and Hugh
Nevens shall, within one year from the passing of said resolve, cut
out a road, two'rods wide, from the termination of the road commonly called the St. John's Road (which 'has been opened, finder
the direction of said commissioners, from Penobscot River into
township number two in the first range) to said township, and
clear, a travlled path therein of one rod in width ; and that within
two years they will clear a like road through said township, and
make the necessary causeways and bridges thereon, all in a manner
to be directed by said commissioners, and within three years will
place on said township thirty farilies, as settlers, of the description
named in the act for promoting the sale and settlement of the public
lands in the District of Maine, then this obligation to be null and
void, otherwise to remain in full force."
On the 16th of May, 1821, Ingersoll conveyed to Eleazer Greeley one thousand acres of land, "in common and undivided, with
the reservation of the public lands."
On the 7th'of May, 1825, Hodgkins reconveyed the same land
which Ingersoll had deeded to him to Ingersoll, and Samuel T.
Mallett.
On the 5th of June, 1827, three several deeds were executed,
and in order to enable himself to execute one of them, Ingersoll received the deed which had so long been kept as .an escrow by the
College, namely, the deed of the 15th of February, 1820, by which
the College conveyed the entire township to Ingersoll. Beingnow.
in possesion of his deed,
1. Ingersoll conveyed to Samuel T. Malle!t "si x -thousand acres
of land, in common and undivided, iti the township of land lying
in the county of Penobscot, as the same township was surveyed by
Alexander Greenwood, Esq., in the year 1811, the same being
township numbered three in the second range of t6wnships north
of the Bingham Penobscot purchase, and numbered four by said
Greenwood, being the same conveyed to me by the .President and
Trustees of Williams College, as described in their deed, dated
February 15th, 1820, and this day delivered to me, reference
thereto being "had; excepting and reserving the lots inarked as setters' lots on a plan of said town made. by John Webber, and excepting also the lot on which I haire improved, which are not to be
subjected to a draft; subject, however, to the condition' that the said
Mallett shall perform his part of the settling duties in proportiorn to
the land conveyed, and also that from said six thousand acres a
part of the public lands reserved shall be taken in proportion as
said six thousand-acres- bears 'to the whole township."

360

SUPREME COURT.
Foxcroft v. Mallett.

2. Greeley conveyed to the same Samuel T. Mallett " all my
right, title, and interest in and to one thousand acres of land, in
No. 4, second range, north of Bingham's purchase, and east side
of Penobscot River, in common and undivided, with the reservation
of the public lands, being the same I purchased of Nathaniel Ingersoll, as per deed dated May 16th, -1821."
3. Mallett, being in possession of these two -branches of the en'tire title, mortgaged one of them (namely, the one which he Lad
j1ust received from Ingersoll) to the College, to secure the payment
of certain notes to the College. As the whole case turned upon
the construction of this mortgage, and what passed under it, the
whole paper is inserted.
" Know'all men by these presents, that 1, Samuel T. Mallett, of
Litchfield, in the county of Lincoln, yeoman, in consideration of
the sum of three thousand dollars paid by the President and
Trustees of Williams College (the receipt whereof I do hereby
acknowledge), do he-eby give, grant, bargain, sell, and convey
unto the said President and. Trustees of Williams College, and
their successors, for ever, six thousand acres of land, in common
and undivided, in the township of land lying in the county of Penobscot, as the same township was surveyed by Alexander Greenwood, in the year 1811, the same being township numbered three
in the second range north of the Bingham Penobscot purchase,
and numbered four by said Greenwood ; being the same this day
conveyed to me by Nathaniel Ingersoll, as by his deed, reference
thereto being had.
" To have and to hold the aforegranted and bargained premises,
with all the privileges and appurtenances thereof, to the said President and Trustees, their successors and assigns, to their use and
for ever. And I do covenant with the said President and
Trustees, their successors and assigns, that I am lawfully seized in
fee of the premises ; that they are free of all encumbrances ; that I
have good right to sell and convey the same to the said President and
Trustees, to hold as aforesaid ; and that I will warrant and defend
the same to the said President ana Trustees, their successors and
assigns, for ever, -against the lawful claims and demands of all persons.
"Proyided, nevertheless, that if the 'said Mallett, his heirs, executors, or administrators, pay to the said President and Trustees,
their successors, heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns, the
sum of three thousand dollars, in equal annual payments, in one,
two, three, and four years, with interest, annually, on the whole,
from thelst day of January last past, as by notes dated May 28th,
1827 ; then this deed, as also four certain notes of th6 above date,
given by the said Mallett and Jonathan Hodgman, to the said
President and Trustees, to pay the sum and interest at the times
aforesaid, shall both be void ; otherwise, shall remain in full force.

-behoof

361

JANUARY TERM, 1846.
Foxeroft v. Mallett.

" In witness whereof I, the said Mallett, have hereunto set my
hand and seal, this !th day of June, in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and twenty-seven.
SAMUEL T. MALLETT. [L. s.]
4 Signed, sealed, and delivered in presence of
NATH'L INGERSOLL."

On the 6th of February, 1828, Ingersoll conveyed to Mallett a certain piece or parcel of land situated in No. 3, in the
county of Penobscot, being one half of lot numbered eleven, in
the fifth range, in common and undivided, being one of the settlers'
lots, the half of said lot containing fifty acres ; said land being north
of Bingham's Penobscot purchase in the county. of Penobscot.
On the 16th of April, 1828, a meeting of the proprietors was
called, "To see what measures the said proprietors will adopt to divide and apportion said lands, and to act thereon as may be judged
proper." After sundry proceedings and adjournments, the meeting voted, on the 1st of July, 1"That the proprietors will proeed
to divide and apportion the lands reserved to be set off as yublic
lots," and a committee was appointed to perform thiis duty. The
report of the committee was adopted by the meeting. After setting off nine hundred and sixty acres as "ministerial lands," and
some other proceedings, it was voted, "To assign and set off
settlers' lots ; namely, to Nathaniel Intwenty-seven lots as
gersoll, thirteen lots, which he has sold to settlers, and on which
improvements have been made, as so much towards his share.
Also, to Samuel T. Mallett, fourteen lots, being lots which he has
"
sold to settlers, as so much towards his share in said lands."
Amongst the lots thus assigned to Mallett were lots.No. 11
in range 4, and No. II in range 5, being the two lots in controversy in the present case. The meeting then proceeded to make
division by lot of the lands not reserved for public lands ; and not
reserved to be holden as.tenants in common among the several
proprietors, according to their several rights in said township ; and
not assigned to Nathaniel Ingersoll and Samuel T. Mallett.
On the 12th of August, 1829, Samuel Mallett conveyed to
David Mallett, the plaintiff below, the two lots in question.
On the 26th of July, 1832, the notes to the"College not being
paid by Samuel Mallett, the College brought an action called a
"plea of land," in the nature of an* ejectment, to recover sixtyeight lots of one hundred acres each, which had been drawn to the
share of said Mallett as above set forth, the action being for "six
thousand acres in common and undivided."
At June term, 1837, the case came on for trial, and was left to
a jury, who found a verdict for the plaintiffs, and the judgment of
the court was, "that the said President and Trustees of Williams
College recover against t.he said Samuel T. Nallett their title and
VOL. IV.

46

EN

862

SUPREME CO-URT.
Foxcroft r. Mallett.

possession of and in the demanded premises, and that a writ of
possession issue accordingly, unless the defendant, his heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns [pay] the sum of five thousand
three hundred and five dollars and seventy-five cents, and interest,
within two months, together with costs of suit, taxed at ninety-five
dollars and thirteen cents."
Upon this judgment a writ of habere facias ponesusiotnm was
issued, on the 20th of June, 1839.
-Under this recovery, Foxcroft, the plaintiff in error and defendant below, claimed. It is unnecessary to set out the mesne
conveyances and partition by which his title to the Jots in question
was established.
The suit brought by David Mallett in the Circuit Court was a
writ of right, which came on for trial in Octobe!', 1843, when the
jury found a verdict for the plaintiff. The following bil )f exceftions to a ruling of the court was taken on the part of Foxcroft,
the defendant.
"ALLETT i'. JosErP E. FoXCROFT.
" Be it'remembered, that the aforesaid Mallett having,. on the
twenty-ninth day of August; in the year of 'our Lord one thousand
eight huidred and thirty-nine, brought his writ of right, returnable
to said Cir~uit Court, to be bolden on the first day of October, then
next, wherein the said David demands against the said Joseph two
certain lots of land, with the appurtenances, situate in Lee, in
said Maine District, being lots numbered eleven in the fourth range,
and eleven in the fifth range, in said town bf Lee ; which two certain lots the said David claims to be the right and inheritance of
him, the said David, and of which he alleges that he was seized
in his demesne as of fee and right, within twenty years, and ought
now- to be in quiet possession thereof, but which the said Joseph
unjustly withholds from him. And the said writ having been duly
served and returned, when and where the same was retutnable, and
the action having been duly entered and continued, from term tp
term, to this term; and the said Joseph baving appeared and
pleaded, and thereby defended the right of the said David and his
seizin, and put himself thereof on the country, and prayed recognition to be made whether he, the said Joseph, had not greater right
to hold the tenements aforesaid, to him and his heirs, as tenants
thereof, as he now holds the same, or the said David, as he has
demanded the same in and by his said writ and declaration ; and
'the -plaintiff having joined the issue tendered, and the juri having
been duly impanelled to try the same, the plaintiff, to prove the
issue on his part, offered in evidence a deed from the Cotnmonwealth of Massachusetts to Williams College, dated February
15th, 1820,
certain
township
of land,
the demanded
premises
areofa apart,
a copy
of which
deedof iswhich
hereunto
annexed,
"DAVID

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

363

Foxcroft v. Mallett.

marked A.,.makes part of this bill of exceptions. He next offered
in evidence a deed from the same Williams College to Nathaniel
Ingersoll, dated the same 15th day of February,.1820, of the same
township, but whichsaid deed was not delivered until June 5th, 1827,
the deed having been in the mean time deposited as an escrow with
the agent of the College. He also offered in evidence a deed from
the said Nathaniel Ingersoll to William Hodgkins, dated 15th Febmary, 1820. Also, a deed from said Nathaniel Ingersoll to Eleazer Greeley, dated May 16th, 1821. Also, a deed [from] said
William Hodgkins to said Nathaniel Ingersoll and Samuel T. Mallett, dated May 7th, 1825. Also a deed from said E. Greeley to
same Samuel T.Mallett, dated June 5th, 1827. Also a deed [from]
said Nathaniel Ingersoll to said Samuel T. Mallett, February 6th,
18!8 copies of all which deeds are hereunto annexed.and marked
B, C, D, E, F, and G, make a part of this bill of exceptions.
" He then introduced the records of a meeting of the proprietors
of the township, called and organized according to the laws of the
State of Mnaine, for the purpose of making a partition of the lands
in the township among the several o'lners, &c. The meeting
being holden on the first day of July, 1828i by adjournment from
the 16th April, 1828.. Portions of the record, so far as they relate
to the matter in controvdrsy were read ; a -copy of which, marked
B, is hereunto annexed, and' makes a part of this bill of exceptions.
He also offered in evidence and read to the jury, a deed from said
Samuel T. Mallett to David Mlallett, the plaintiff, dated August
the 12th, 1829, purporting to convey to the said David two certain lots, being the demanded premises, a copy of which is hereunto annexed, marked H, and makes a part of this bill- of exceptions. And the defendant, to maintain the issue on his part,
offered in evidence, and read to the jury, a resolve of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, dated the 19th day ofiFebruary, 1805,
and another resolve of the same Commonwealth, dated the 27th
day of January, 1520 ; copies of which said resolves'are hereunto
annexed, and marked No. 1 and No. 2, and make part of 'this bill
of exceptions. Also the deed from the same Commonwealth to
Williams Collegd, and the deed from said College to said Nathaniel
Ingersoll, herein before referred to, marked A and B, having been
offered in evidence bi the plaintiff.' Also a bond from the said
Nathaniel Ingersoll'and others to the said Commonwealth, dated
March 17th, 1820, a copy of which is hereunto annexed as a part of
tls bill of exceptions, marked No. 3. Also a deed from Nathaniel
Ingersoll aforesaid, dated 5th June, 1817, to' Samuel T. Mallett
aforesaid. Also a deed of mortgage from Samuel T.* Mallett
aforesaid to said Williams College, dated the same 5th June, 1827 ;
copies of both which deeds -are hereunto annexed, marked No. 4
and 5, and make a part of this bill 'of exceptions. "Also the record
of the writ and judgment for the foreclosute of said mortgagei-by"

364

SUPREME COURT.
Foxeroft v. Mallett.

the said Williams College, azinst the said Samuel T. Mallett, a
copy of which is hereunto anexed, marked No. 6, and makes a
part of this bill of exceptions. Also a deed from said Williams
College to John Webber, aated May the 11th, 1835, assigning
said mortgaged premises to him. Also a deed from John Webber to said defendant, dated the 19th June, 1835, conveying one
undivided half of said mortgaged premises to him, said defendant ;
copies of which two last-mentioned deeds are annexed, and make
a part of this bill of exceptions, marked No. 7 and 8. Also the
proceedings in partition, instituted by the said Webber and Foxcroft, and the record of the assignment and judgment thereon, in
the Supreme Judicial Court of the State of Maine, being the
highest court of record in said State, a copy of which proceedings
and record is annexed, marked No. 9, makes a part of this bill of
exceptions. Also a deed from said John Webber to said defendant, dated November the 4th, 1836, of the residue or remaining
moiety of the mortgaged premises conveyed to said Webber by
said Williams College ; a copy of which deed is marked No. 10,
and annexed hereto, and makes a part of this bill of exceptions.
" It was stated and admitted as a part of this cause, that at the
time said proprietors' meeting was held, Samuel Fessenden, the
agent of Williams College, resided in Portland, the place of said
meeting, but was not present at said meeting.
" Upon this evidence, the honorable justice who presided at said
trial ruled that the mortgage deed offered in evidence by the defendant, given to the said trustees of Williams College, dated the
fifth day of June, 1827, mnarked 5, does not comprehend and cover
the two lots, 11th in the 4th range, and 11th in the 5th range,
being the premises demandejd. And the said honorable justice did
then and there declare and deliver his opinion aforesaid, that the
mortgage deed aforesaid does not comprehend and cover the two
lots, namely, No. 11 in the 4th range, and No. 11 in the 5th range,
being the premises demanded, to the jury zforesaid, and with
that direction left the said cause to the jury, and the said jury
then and there gave and returned the following verdict, to wit :'The jury find that the said David Mallett hath greater right
to hold the lands and tenements described in his writ in said
suit, as he has demanded the same, than said Foxcroft, the tenant,
has to hold the same.' Whereupon the counsel of the defendant
did, then and there, on behalf of- the said defendant, except to the
aforesaid opinion of said honorable justice, and insisted that said
mortgage deed did comprehend and cover the said two lots No. 11
in the 4th range, and No. 11 in the 5th range, being the premises
demanded. And inasmuch as the said several matters so produced
and given in evidence on the part of said plaintiff and defendant,
and by their counsel aforesaid insisted upon, do not appear by
the record of the verdict aforesaid, the said counsel for said de-

JANUATRY

TERM, 1846.

365

Foxeroft v. Mallett.

fendant did then and there propose their aforesaid exception to the
opinion of the said justice, and requested said justice to put his seal
to this Ull of exceptions, containing the several matters so produced and given in evidence, on the part of said defendant, as
aforesaid; and thezeupon the said honorable justice, at the request
of said counsel of said defendant, did put his seal to this bill of
exceptions, on the eighth day of October, in the year of our Lord
one thousand eight hundred and forty-three.
STORY,
L. S.]JOSEPH
One of the, Justices of the Supreme Court Of
the United States.
"We, the undersigned, certify, that this bill of exceptions is
satisfactory to us.
FESSENDEN & DEBLOIS & FESSENDEN,
For the defendant.
WILLIS & FESSENDEN,
For plaintiff."
Upon this bill of exceptions, the case came up to this court.
It was submitted upon printed arguments, by ir. Wester, for
the plaintiff in error, and .ir. Evans, for the defendant.'
The points made by Mr. Webster were the following 1. By the resolve of January 27th, 1820, and the deed of the
15th of February, 1820, A, the fee in the township passed to the
President and Trustees of Williams College, unencumbered by any
condition as to settlers to be placed on said township, - the settling duties being secured by bond.
2. By the deed B, Noble to Ingersoll, the fee in the township
passed to Ingersoll, unencumbered by any condition as to the duty
of putting on, as settlers, thirty families.
3. By the deed No. 4, Ingersoll to Mallett, the fee in six thousand acres in said township, in common and undivided, of a certain
portion of it, passed to Mallett, by the delivery of the deed, subject
to the condition subsequent, to perform his part of the settling duties in proportion to the land conveyed.
4. That the settling duties to be performed by Mallett could not
mean that he should, within three years from the making of the
grant, put settlers on said township, because, when the deed was
made to Mallett, these three years had elapsed.
5. Mallett was not bound by the condition to appropriate any
part of the six thousand acres to settlers ; but it would be a good
performance of the settling duty incumbent on in according to his
deed, had he, Mallett, within a reasonabln time after the division
of the township and the assignment of his share to him, placed settlers on any part of said township which he, Afallett, might acquire
by purchase.

366

SUPREME COURT.
Foxcroft v. Mallett.

6. It would be a good performance of the condition, to pay his
proportion of the bond made to secure the settlement of thirty families on said township.
7. That it did not and does not appear that the settling duties
secured by the condition in the deed from Ingersoll to Mallett had
not been performed.
8. There was no evidence offered to show that Ingersoll or his
heirs ever entered for a breach of any condition in that deed, and
therefore that the fee remained in Mallett or in his grantees, the
President and Trustees of Williams College.
9. Ingersoll or his heirs were the only persons who could enter
for a breach of the condition, and, as they did not, the presumption
is that the condition was not broken.
10. By the deed in mortgage, Mallett to the President and Trustees of Williams College, No. 5, the fee in mortgage of the whole
six thousand acres, in common and undivided, in the residue of the
whole township, passed to the grantees simultaneously with the fee
which Mallett took from Ingersoll.
11. That the condition assumed by Mallett to perform settling
duties, whatever might be the-import of that condition as between
Mallett and the President and Trustees of Williams College, and
the obligatiof to fulfil that condition, was not transferred from Mallett to the President and Trustees of the College by Mallett's deed
of mortgage to them.
12. By the division made by the proprietors, and the assignment to each of his share, sixty-eight lots were assigned to Mallett,
and he became seized thereof in fee and in severalty, as well those
assigned by direct vote as those assigned by draft, according to a
vote.
13. That, by operation of law, when such division was made,
the President and -Trustees of Williams College became seized,
as tenants in common with Mallett, by operation of the mortgage
deed to the whole sixty-eight lots in proportion as sixty to sixtyeight.
14. That the proprietors had no power to deduct any portion'of
the lands assigned to Mallett as his share from the lien which attached to them by the mortgage to the trustees ; nor have they so
done.
15. Neither had Mallett, any such power. It is expressly determined by the Supreme Judicial Court of Maine; in the case of
Williams College v. David Mallett et al., 4 Shepley, 88, " That the mortgagor of an undivided portion of a tract of land
cannot, without the consent of the mortgagee, by any after conveyance by metes and bounds of any part of the mortgaged premises) withdraw from the lien created by the mortgage the part so
conveyed."
In 1839,' at the July term of the Supreme Judicial Court, the

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

367

Foxcroft v. Mallett.

President and Trustees of Williams College, in a suit brought on
the mortgage of Samuel T. Mallett to' foreclose, recovered judgment for the possession for six thousand acres of land in the town
of Lee, by which name the township "nwhich are the land in controversy are situate.
And having assigned the mortgage to John Webber by deed (see
No. 7), during the pendency of their uit against Samuel T. Mallett to foreclose the mortgage, the judgment inured to Webber, the
assignee of the rportgage. Williams College v. Mallett, 4 Shepley, 84.
16. By lapse of more than three years, the fee in the six thousand acres thus recovered has become absolute in the assignees of
the mortgage.
17. By judgment for partition and the proceedings thereon,
which judgment and proceedings stand unreversed and in full force,
the assignees of the mortgage became sole seized of the lands set
off to them byithe commissioners appointed by the courtwhose
doings were accepted and by judgment of court confirmed.
See No. 9, and by which it appears the lots in controversy were
assigned to the petitioners to hold in severalty.
18. By the deeds of Webber to Foxcroft, No. 8 and No. 10,
the whole fee in those lots passed to Foxcroft, the plaintiff in error.
The question at bar involves the construction of a grant by
deed of real estate within the State of Maine. This deed and the
construction of it have been made the special subject of judicial
decision by the Supreme Judicial Court of Maine. The colistruction of-that deed on the very question at issue has been solemnly settled by the highest judicial tribunal, and is no longer an
open question.
The practice under the laws bra State furnishes a rule by which
the Circuit Court sitting in that district may proceed. Brown v.
Van Braam, 3 D all. 344.
In cases depending on the statutes of a State, and more especially those respecting titles to land, the court adopts the construction of the State where that construction is settled, and can be ascertained. Polk's Lessee v. Wendal et al., 9 Cranch, 87 ; Shipp
et al. v. Miller's heirs, 2 Wheat. 316 ; Elmondorf v. Taylor et
al., 10 Wheat. 152.
The Supreme Court adopts the local law of real property, as
ascertained by the decisions of the State courts, whether these decisions are grounded on the statutes of the State, or form a part of
the unwritten law of the State which has become the fixed rule of
property. Jackson ex dem: St. John v. Chew, 12 Wheat. 153 ;
Society for the Propagation of the Gospel v. Wheeler, 2 Gallis. 105.

fr. Evans, for the defendant in error, made the following
points.

368

"

SUPREME COURT.
Foxcroft v. Mallett.

I. With regard to that part of the case prior to the mortgage
given by Mfallett to the College.
1. Offact. That Ingersoll and Mallett had, previous to the
delivery of the deed, College to Ingersoll, been engaged as proprietors. in placing settlers upon the township, under the provisions
of the act of 1816.
That the title of Mallett to his six thousand acres was perfected
by the deed of Ingersoll to him, and by the delivery of the deed,
College to nge?soll, being parts of one transaction, both necessary
to perfect the title of Mallett.
That the condition inserted in the deed to Mallett was but the
giving a legal and binding effect to a previous stipulation between
the parties, under which they had both been acting.
2. Of law. That whether the facts above supposed were true
or not, Ingersoll, as proprietor, had a right to impose the condition undez consideration, contained in his deed as an original
condition.
That such condition must be construed and understood by a
reference to the act of 1816, referred to in the resolve.
That it must be const ued according to the intention and meaning of the parties.
That it could not have been performed by payment of money
under the bond, or in any other way than by getting on the
specified proportion of settlers, of the description contained in the
act of 1816.
That the performance of it necessarily involved an appropriation
of a certain portion of the land conveyed to settling purposes,
and necessarily contemplated a specific appropriation of the quantity of land required, in proportion, for those purposes.
That the condition thus imposed operated as a specific charge
and burden upon the land thus conveyed.
II. And with regard to the remaining part of the case, the following points, namely 1, That the delivery of the deed to Ingersoll, abd the execution of the deeds, Ingersoll to Mallett, and Mallett to the College,
being at the same time, and the two latter being witnessed and
sanctioned by the agent of the College, who delivered the former,
the College was thereby afPcted with notice of the contents of all,
and is bound thereby.
2. That whether affected with actual notice or not, the reference in the deed to the College to the deed from Ingersoll to
Mallett incorporates the whole of the former deed in the latter,
and subjects the College to all its reservations, burdens, and conditions, so far as regards the title and description of the land conveyed.
3. That the reservations and conditions in the deed, Ingersoll
to Mallett, being before the habendum, may all be considered as

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

369

Foxcroft v. Mallett.

part of the description, and are therefore, on the principles assumed by the plaintiff in error, incorporated in the d6ed to the
College, by the reference contained therein.
4. That by this reference, Mallett, the grantor , reserves to
himself, necessarily, as mortgagor, the right to discharge the burdens and obligations imposed upon the land by the deed from
Ingersoll.
5. That such reservations and conditions are not repugnant to
the covenants in those deeds, and no more repugnant to the covenants in a mortgage deed than in any other.
6. That the proprietors of the township had the power to divide the whole or a part of the same among those interested, and
that the legality of their proceedings is admitted so far as the division is concerned, both parties claiming under it.
7. That it is not competent for the plaintiff in error to affirm
the legality of the assignment to Mallett for one purpose, and deny
its validity for another. If that assignment was invalid in part, it
was so in the whole; and the lafids thus assigned remain common
lands ; and, in consequence the plaintiff in error could not have
them specifically assigned to him in partition, and his title fails.
8. That the action of the proprietors in assigning fourteen lots
to Mallett, "as so much towards his share," with the words,
"'being lots which he has sold to settlers," operated as a conveyance to Mallett of those lots in trust for the persons to whom
he had sold, or contracted to sell them.
9..That the rights of the College were not thereby infringed,
inasmuch as by that assignment the condition ot the grant from Ingersoll was saved, and the title of the College secured. That
Mfallett, as grantee, and also as mortgagor, had not only the right,
but was also under a moral obligation, to have the burden upon the
six thousand acres removed. And that the assent of his cotenants, as expressed by their votes at the meeting, operated as a
confirmation of his proceedings.
10. That no land has been subtracted from the operation of the
mortgage, as contended by plaintiff in error, but that by purchasing
and owning thirteen hundred acres in the township, besides that
covered by the mortgege, Mallett had, within a fraction of one
hundred acres, in fact relieved the mortgage from the burden of
settling duties; leaving in allotted and common lands six thousand
acres in the township, within a fraction of a lot, untouched, and
exposed to the operation of the mortgage, with all burdens discharged.
11. That whatever lien the College might have had upon the
lots assigned, that lien was divested by the action of the proprietors, and these lots freed from the operation of the mortgage.
12. That neither the case Willams College v. Mallett,.Randall v. Mallett, nor Webber v. Mallett, cited by plaintiff in error,
47
vo 1. Iv.

370

SUPREME COURT.
Foxcroft v. 'IaUett.

considers the questions at issue im this case, or gives any construction to the deeds, nor were any such questions presented in either
of those cases.
Ia. That the assignment having been made to Mallett for theuse of the settlers, a conveyance might be enforced against himin equity, - or, if he had given deeds, the title acquired by vote
of the proprietors would inure to his grantees, as settlers in the
township.
14. That it is not competent for the College to avail itself of
the assignment of these lots for one purpose; namely, to protect
its title, and then seek to divert the assignment from those to whose
use it was made, and appropriate it to its own.
* 15. If the plaintiff" m error has any title, it is under the mortgage alone. If therefore, the lots in question are not covered Iy
the mortgage, he is a mere stranger, ahd cannot inquire as toiMe
title of the defendant in error.
16. The proceedings in partition do not involve a.consideration of the point in issue in this case, or a construction of the
deeds.
17. Neither does the judgment in partition affect, in any manner, the right of property.
18. By th deed of Samuel T. Mallett to David Mallett, the
fee in these lots passed to David Mallett, and his title cannot be
questioned by any one, not a creditor, a purchaser for a valuable
consideration, or. a cestui qua trust of the lands. And the plaintiff
in-error sustains neither of these relations.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a W it of error, founded on an exception taken to th
ruling of the Circuit Court, in the Maine District, as to the con§truction of a deed.
The action below was brought to recover lots No. 11 in the 4th
range, and No. 11 in the 5th range, in the town of Lee, in said
District; and the construction c6jected to was, that a mortgage,
executed June 5th, 1827, by Samuel Mallett to Williams College,
d.nder which institution the plaintiff in error claims, did not comprehend or convey the demaifded premises.
In order to judge of the correctness of this construction, and
its bearing on the rights of the parties, it will be necessary to examine the circumstances under which the deed was made, as well
as its phraseology.
Th'e demanded premises were part of township No. 3, north of
Bingham's Penobscot purchase, conveyed by the Commonwealth
of Massachusetts to Williams College, the 15th of February, 1820,
under certain resolves, passed by the legislature, February 19tb,
1805, and January 27th, 1820. The only conditions in those resolves material to what is now under consideration were, that "the

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

371

Foxcroft v. Mallett.

grantees$ or their assigns," shall give security that they, " within
three years, will place on said township thirty families, as settl rs,
of the description named in the act for promoting the sale"and, settlement of the public lands in the District of Maine ; also reserving
in said township the usual public lots." By the act referred to,

foF "1piomoting the sale and settlement of the public lands in the
District of Maine," it-was provided (in section sixth), "that in
every township to be laid out pursuant to this act, the commissioners shall set apart fifty lots, of one hundred acres each , of
average quality and value, no two lots of which shall be contiguous
to each other, which shall be granted and conveyed to the first
fifty settlers in said township, upon the payment of five dollars for
each lot" (Statute, February 15th, 1816, p. 172). The fifth
section authorized the commissioners to take a coihmutation from
grantees of any settling duties they were held to perform.
The resolve, granting this township, reduced the number of settlers from fifty to thirty ; and, instead of reserving the right to the
commissioners to execute such deeds, provided, that the grantees
might give security to the State to do it, and perform the other
duties, as to the settlers, under the before-mentioned act. Accordingly, Williams College having conveyed this township to Nathaniel
Ingersoll, on the 15th of February, 1820, and not having given the
beford-mentioned security themselves, procured him to do it, and
he, by bond, dated March 17th, 1820, stipulated with the State,
among other things, to place, within three years, "1on said township thirty families, as settlers, of the despription named in the act
for promoting- the sale and settlement of the publi6 lands in the
District of Maine."
Matters being thus situated, Ingersoll, on the 5th of June, 1827,
conveyed to Samuel T. Aallett a portion of said township, under
the following description, reservations, and. conditions :" Six thousand acres of land, in common and undivided, in the
township of land lying in the county of Penobscot, as the sime
township was surveyed by Alexander Greenwood, Esq., in the
year one thousand eight hundred and eleven, the same being township numbered three in the second ange of townships north of the
Bingham Penobscot purchase, and numbered four by said Greenwood, being the same conveyed to me by the President and Trustees
of Williams College, :as described in their deed, dated February
fifteenth, one thousand eight hundred and twenty, and this day delivered to me, reference thereto being had ; excepting and reserving
the lots marked as settlers' lots on a plan of said town, made by
John Webber, and excepting also the lot on which I have improved,
which are not to be subjected to a draft; subject, however, to the
condition that the said Mallett shall perform his part of the settling
duties in proportion to the land conveyed, and also that from said
six 'thousand acres a part of the public lands reserved shall be

372

SUPREME COURT.
Foxcroft v. Mallett.

-taken, in proportion as said six thousand acres bears to the whole
township."
On the same day, to secure the consideration for tha purchase,
and to pay the same to Williams College, in behalf of said Ingersoll, still indebted to the College, -Mallett conveyed the same
premises, by mortgage, to the College, -under the following description :
" Six thousand acres of land, in common and undivided, in the
township of land lying in the county of Penobscot, as the same
township was surveyed by Alexander Greenwood, 1811, the same
being township number three in the second range north of the Bingham Penobscot purchase, and numbered four by said Greeftwood,
being the same this day conveyed to me by Nathaniel Ingersoll, as
by his deed, reference thereto being had."
What passed by this conveyance is the chief difficulty in the
case. The question arises in this way.
The debt, secured by that mortgage, not being paid, the College
instituted a suit to foreclose the same, in the year 1832, and recovered judgment June 20th, 1839. In the mean time, namely,
May 11 th, 1835, it transferred the rights under the mortgage to John
Webber, who, in June of the same year, conveyed a moiety of
them to Foxcroft, the plaintiff in error.
Webber and Foxcroft then, in July, 1836, petitioned the Superior Court of Maine for a partition of what they held in common
with others ; and, after various proceedings, these lots,'No. 11 in
the 4th, and No. 11 in the 5th range, were set off to them in
severalty ; and on the 4th of November, 1836, Webber released
all his rights in them tq Foxcroft. This, it is contended, vested
the title in him, derived under the mortgage ; and it might have
done so, in one view of the case, had nothing else occurred to prevent
or defeat it. But Samuel Mallett, after the conveyance to him by
Ingersoll, and the mortgage to the College, proceeded to put on
the land various settlers, under the reservations and conditions in
the deed to him ; and, at a meeting of the proprietors of the township, for the purpose of dividing the same, April 16th, 1828, No.
11 in the 4th range, and No.11 in the 5th, were set off to Samuel
Mallett, with other lots, making fourteen in all, and described as
"being lots which he has sold to settlers, as so much towards his
share in said lands"; and on the 12th of August; 1829, he -executed a deed of those lots to the demandant.
The case, then, stands thus. If the title to these lots passed
under the mortgage from Samuel Mallett to the College, without
condition, except as security for the -debt, the plaintiff in error is
now possessed of them in severalty, and should retain them. But
if the title to them did. not pass at all by that mortgage, on account
of the exceptions or reservations, either in it or the prior deed, which
are applicable to the premises ; or if itpassed on conditions which

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

373

Foxcroft v. Mallett.-

have since vested these lots in ]David Mallett, as settlers' lots under
the act to encourage the sale and settlement of lands in Maine, then he, as settler and grantee of the same, ought now of right to
possess them. The general aspect of the whole case is, we think,
strongly in favor of the right set up by the demandant.
On the construction made in his favor by the court below, he
will recover only what the laws of the State intended such settlers
as he should have ; and which it was expressly provided they
should have in the deed from Ingersoll to Samuel Mallett of the
tract including these premises.
But should the opposite construction, contended for by the tenant, prevail, the College and its assignees will get back, under a
mortgage to secure a part of the consideration; about one fourth of
the township, free from any charge or deduction on account of settlers' claims, when the College was oriinally entitled to it under
the resolve only-as burdened With that charge, and has paid nothing since to relieve the land. from it ; and when the immediate
grantee of the College conveyed it so burdened, and has done
nothing since to remove the encumbrance. Again, it was a leading
principle of public policy with the State, in order to increase its
population and wealth, that settlers should be placed upon the land
at an early day, and, as an inducement for them to come, should have
lots for a very small consideration. The College took the original
grant under stipulations to effect this, and were bound to effect it,
to the number of thirty families.
Yet, on the construdtion set up by the tena t, Ingersoll, under
his bond, and his assigns, under the clauses in ti, ,ir deeds from him,
would be compelled to effect this so far as reg~xds one fourth of
the town, without allowing them any consideration therefor, or
permitting them to make it a permanent charge on the land itself,
as it originally was and would naturally continue to be.
But general considerations like these may Ie counteracted by
express agrdements and special provisions between the parties ; and
it is necessary to ascertain next whether any such different and opposing agreements have been entered into here. When Ingersoll,
being the second grantee and the obligor in the bond to the State
for the performance of duties as to settlers, proceeded to convey
about one fourth of the township to Samuel Mallett, it is clear that
he preferred making-the performance Qf the duties to settlers in
that portion of the township a charge on the land itself, by a condition in the grant, as had formerly been the usage, rather than
taking another bond or other collateral security for it to himself. Such a course was also likely to be the safest,' and was
competent or legal, if he chose to adopt it. Accordingly, at -the
close of the description of the premises, in his deed to Mallett, he
adds, " excepting and reserving the lots marked," &c., which are
not those now in dispute, and concludes,- "subject, howeveri
vOL. IV.

F?

374

SUPREME COURT.
Foxcroft v. Mallett.

to the CONDITION, that the said Mallett shall perform his part of
the settling duties in proportion to the land conveyed, and also, that
from said six thousand acres a part of the public lands reserved shall
be taken, in proportion as said six thousand acres bears to the whole
township." There can be no doubt, that this language, whether following or-preceding the description of the premises, was intended to
constitdte an integral part of the deed itself, and to limit the extent
add nature of the grant. A condition or reservation may be inserted in any part of a deed. Shepherd's Touch., ch. 6; 5
D. & E. 526 ; I Saund 60, note.
Nor is such a provision inconsistent with the general covenants,
as has been contended by the plaintiff in error. They must be
construed as relating only to the subject-matter, looking to the
whole deed, and the obvious intent of the parties in the whole.
What, then, is the effect of these particular clauses ? Clearly to
except out of and reserve from passing at all, by the grant, so
much of the six thousand acres as "the lots marked as settlers' lots
on a plan of said town by.J. Webber," and also the lot on which
Ingersoll had improved. These were not to be considered as held
in common or " subjected to a draft," -but were entirely excluded
from any future division of the six thousand acres. These, however, are not now in controversy.
What more do these clauses provide ? The whole land, which
did pass under the grant, was to be held " subject" " to-the condition, that the said .Mallett shall perform his part of the settling
duties," or, in other words, put on his proportionate number of
families, and convey to the head of each a hundred-acre lot for only
five dollars, and also allow a proportionate share of the public lands
reserved in said township to " be taken" from this six thousand
acres. This is the important provision Laaring on the present case.
For aught which appears, the" settlers had not then removed" upon
the land. The public lots reserved in the township had not then
been set apart. But the parties virtually agreed, that, when settlers
were put on and when the public lots were set apart, one fourth, or
thereabouts, of the lands in the whole town belonging to settlers
should, on the payment of a mere nominal consideration, come out
of these six thousand acres, and, in like manner, one fourth of the
public lots should be taken therefrom.
Tiis being the special agreement of the parties, the next inquiry is,. has it been carried into effect in a manner so as legally to
sustain the judgment rendered below ?
The controverted expressions in the deed seem, in their most
obvious import, either to except from the land conveyed the lots
whivh settlers should select, or to make it a condition of the
grant, that the title to those lots should afterwards be vested in
them. The form of the uling of the court leaves it a little uncer-

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

37/5

Foxcroft v. Mallett.

tan on which of these grounds the opinion rested, as, after a Tecital
of the evidence in the case, the bill of exceptions says :" Upon this evidence the honorable justice, who presided at said
trial, ruled that the mortgage deed offered in evidence by the defendant, given to he said Trustees of Williams College, dated the
5th day of June, 1827, marked 5, does not comprehend and
cover the two lots, 11 th in the 4th range, and 11th in the 5th range,
being the premises demanded."
At the first blush, it might be inferred that the judge held these
lots did not pass at all under the mortgage, having been considered
as excepted or reserved. Mallett v. Foxcroft, I Story's R. 477.
But we are inclined to think, that so stringent a view of his ruling
is not indispensably necessary; and fit were, we see no reason why
the judgment is not to be sustained, as right fisubstance, and according to the merits of the case, - if, at the time the writ of right
was brought, the title to these lotg was not in the mortgagee or his
grantees, but was rather in the demandant, under one of the
views or constructions before mentioned.
The learned judge might well'mean, that the mortgage " does
not comprehend and cover the two lots" in dispute, as matters
stood, after the settling, partition, and conveyance to David Mallett, and he would thus regard the provision as a.condition which
had been executed. This would be free from much difficulty. On
thp contrary, it is supposed by the -plaintiff that he regarded it a an
exception or reservation of the last lots. This would be, in the
spirit and intent of the parties, as the former clause had been, an
excepting or reserving of the first-named lots. If deciding so (1
Story, 477), he doubtless considered, that the last. lots would 6re
long be set apart and marked, and thus become certain on the prin-.
ciples contained in the deed and in the statutes as to settlers and
artions. oy the proprietors of towns ; and he, therefore, may have
felt justified in regarding now as sufficiently, certain what could be
afterwards made certain' id certum est quod cerium, reddi potest
(Jacksonv. Lawrence, 11 Johns. R. 191.) But, in some respects,
it is not quite so natural or safe a view to regard this last clause as a
reservation or exception, nor does the judge call it so in the ruling.
An exception or reservation is sometimes void for uncertainty, and
sometimes for being ,infavor of third persons. 4 East, 464 ;
Thompson v. Gregoxy, 4 Johns. R. 81 ; 9 Johns. R. 73; Co.
Litt. 143, a.
Those objections have been urged in this case; and it may,
therefore, be least exceptionable to regard the last clause, as it is
called in the deed, a condition. Rice v. Osgood et al., 9 Mass.
R. 43 ; Gray v. Blanchard, 8 Pick. 284. This view seems well
sustained both by the language used and the nature of the transaction. The preceding clause is in words, eo norine, excepting or
reserving, while this is eo nomine on " condition" ; and the lots.

376

SUPREME COURT.
Foxeroft v. Mallett.

there referred to were previously set apart, marked, and identified,
while these were not so set apart, but still held in common and in
some degree uncertain. The phraseology was also changed in the
last clause from " excepting and reserving" to "condition," probably because the latter expression was deemed more appropriate
as to lots not then selected or identified, but which were intended
and virtually agreed to be, afterwards.
Such an agreement would in its spirit, no less than words, be a
condition, as it would be " a bridle" or restraint on the grant, which
is one of Shepherd's definitions of a condition. Shep. Touch., ch. 6.
The nature of a transaction, as well as the language, may well be
regarded always in deciding whether a case is a reservation or a
condition. 13 Maine R. 31 ; 15 Maine R. 216 ; 4 Johns. R. 82;
1 D. & E. 645 ; Shep. Touch., ch. 6, p. 122; 12 Pick. 156.
A charge like this, imposed in a deed by the State, though using
words of reservation, was adjudged to be a condition in Hovey v.
Deane, 13 Maine R. 31 ; and same case, 15 ibid. 216 ; Dunlap v.
Stetson, 4 Mason, 349. So a provision ray be inserted in an instrument as to land, which will be construed either a condition or a covenant, as seems most appropriate, Bac. Abr. Condition, G. And
words of limitation may be taken for a condition. Com. Dig.
Condition, A; 11 Mod. R. 61.
But whichever the last clause should be considered as operating,
consistent with legal principles, the result on the interests of the
parties would be much the same. In the former viewi as an exception or reservation, the land afterwards set apart for these lots
would be regarded as n..ver passing at all to the mortgagee or his
grantees, while, in the latter view, as a condition, it would pass,
but only on condition of being vested in the settlers, so soon as set
apart and conveyed to them; and as the latter has already been done,
the tide would not be now in the tenant, under either of these views.
Were-it necessary to give validity to the clause, and it would be
bad either as a reservation, exception, or condition, it would be no
unusual stretch of construction to consider it as a covenant to stand
,seized Wi the use of the settlers, and in this way reach a like
result. Jackson v. Swart, 20 Johns. R. 87 ; Bedel's case, 7
Coke, 40.
A deed is, if possible, to be made operative in some way ; and
the construction should be liberal, in order to effect that object, and
enforce the original desig. - 2 Wils. 75 ; Willes, 682; 5 Barn.
& Cressw. 106 ; 2 Saund. 96, note ; Preston on Conveyancing,
41 ; Broom's Legal Maxims, 238, 239.
Making these important'-lauses, then, in the deed from Ingersoll,
operative, and near as m.ay be in conformity to the original design,
whieh was both legal and. laudable, why should they not bind subsequent mortgagees and grantees ?
Samuel Mallett, having obtained no interest in' the six thousand

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

371

Foxcroft v. Mallett.

acres, so far as regards the lots then marked and reserved, and none
whatever in the whole tract, free from the condition and charge we
have been describing, - of other lots to be afterwards marked and
assigned, as these have been, to settlers, -how could he pass to
others, by a mortgage, a greater interest than he obtained ? That condition or charge was on the land, as an eheumbrance,
by the Very terms of the deed to him; and he could not, if he
tried, convey a title to the land which should be free from it.
Such a condition attaches to the land wherever it goes, "although
the same pass through the hands of a hundred men." (Shep. Touch.,
ch. 6 ; Perkins, § 818 ; 2 Preston on Conveyancing, 412; 1 Co.
Litt. 230, b. In our view, it operates like a covenant, which runs
with the land; and all assignees are bound by covenants real, that
rqn with the land. Spencer's case, 5 .Coke, 15-17 ; Co. Litt.
,47, a; Shep. Touch. 161, ch. 6, 176 ; Com. Dig. Condition;
3 D. & E. 393 ; 1 Paige's R. 412, 455..
The condition, or charge, was also public, -- on record, in extenso, in the depd from Ingersoll. That deed was expressly referred
to in the mortgage to the College ; and the value of the whole, in
Samuel Mfallett's hands, or in those of his mortgagees, would be
known by all to be, at *a time, reddced in proportion.
By proceeding afterwards to get the partition made by the proprietors, and to execute the deed to David Mfallett, so as to perform
his duty in respect to this condition, he did not, as seems to be
contended, reduce'further the value of the land to himself or mortgagees, or part with any poition o" iTnot before subject to be thus
taken.
The extent -and nature of his title being spread upon record,
nobody could be misled, and nothing could pass by his mortgage,.
free from the same conditions and reservations under which it had
come to him ; and when6ver certain lots. should afterwards be set
apart and conveyed to settlers, - it being in conformity with the
condition, - they could tnot and ought not longer to be held or retained under the mortgage deed. Nor is the subsequent setting
apart of the premises, and the conveyance of them to settlers, a
withdrawal of any part of the mortgaged security, as is argued by
the plaintiff in error ; because that security embraced the six thousand acres only as slibject to such an event ; and its happening
was provided for, and was an open and express condition of the
title to the property which was held as security.
It is likewise urged by the plaintiff in error, that Afallett might,
like Ingers6ll, have agreed to perform the duties towards settlers,
in money. But he did not. So, without any agreement, he might
have done it with money, and not left it to become an actual charge
on the land, in his mortgage, though placed as d conditional charge
on it by Ingersoll. But he did not. So it is said the condition
here is a subsequent one, and the title vests, subject to be divested
VOL. IV.

48

FF

378

SUPREME COURT.
Foxcroft v. Mallett.

only by a breach and an entry for condition broken, and which
entry has never been made. Rice v. Osgood et al., 9 Mass.
R. 38 ; 2 Cruise, title 13, § 15.
But it has not been broken, and hence no entry, by Ingersoll or
others, is necessary for condition broken. On the contrary, the
condition has been fulfilled, by a performance of- the duty to the
settlers, in getting their lots set apart and conveyed to them ; and
thus the title to those lots is vested in them now, as thdcondition
prescribed, rather than remaining in the grantee or mortgagee.
Rice v. Osgood et al., 9 Mass. R. 44.
There is no difficulty, then, about a breach and an entry, as
every thing has been fulfilled In the manner it ought to have been
done. . So, in answer to another objection, it is clear that this fulfilment was, attended to as properly by the mortgagor, before a
foreclosure, as by the mortgagee. 18 Mass. R. 87 ; Bradley v.
Fuller, 23 Pick.- 9; 2 Greenleaf, 132. The mortgagor was in
charge of the land, and was still the owner, for all purposes except the security of the creditor. That security is not lessened
by what he did in this respect.
Another point has been much argued in relation to the mortgage,
which, in this view of the subject, is not material. It ip, that the
mortgage deed does not contain the condition. After describing
the premises, it is true that it does not go into details as to the several exceptions, reservations, and conditions in the deed to Samuel
Mallett, but merely adds, "being the same this day conveyed to
me by Nath' Ingersoll, as by his deed, reference thereto being
had." This reference, it is contended, is not broad enough to include or cover the exceptions and conditions. But it could not be
considered a forced construction to hold that the whole of the
deed referred to should be regarded and considered as showing he
intended to reconvey for security all, and no more or less, in any
view, than what had just been conveyed to him. Field v. Huston, 21 Maine R. 69, 72 ; 22 ibid. 327 ; Foss et al. v. Crisp, 20
Pick. 121. The reference to the deed might as properly be considered to indicate the interests as the premises just received. In
either view, the lots reserved would be reached, as they were connected not onlywith the title but the quantity of land meant to be
conveyed. So at to any charges in the form of a condition imposed on the land, they would be embraced, even under a reference to the premises,.as those charges are contained in the same
sentence, and tend to show a diminished quantity of land passing
absolutely.
Both deeds were also parts of one transaction, and may well be
construed together, as having a like object in respect to the extent
of the interests no less than the premises. But was the conclusion
different, the case would, in the view first taken by us, and which is
the legal view, be merely that of a grantor undertaking to sell or

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

379

Foxcroft v. Malletm.

mortgage a larger interest than he possessed, or an interest unencumbered, which was in fact encumbered ; and the remedy for
such an excess in the conveyance is an action on the covenants, and
not to construe the deed as granting more than the grantor himself
possessed.
There have been some other questions raised in the argument of
this case, which it is not material to consider under the only ruling
at the trial which is excepted to, and which relates entirely to wbaat
passed by the mortgage.
One of them is the effect of a former recovery by Foxcroft and
Webber against Mallett, in the proceedings for a partition, where
the title of the latter to the lots now in controversy was questioned
and tried ; but this, being a writ of right, is probably not barred by
any prior recoveries between these parties. Mallett v. Foxcroft, 1
Story's R. 477. Another of these questions is the correctness of
the partition made by the proprietors of this township, when the
two lots in controversy were set off to Samuel Mallett. Such a
partition, however, though the ruling on it is not excepted to in the
record, is supposed to be valid under the statutes of Maine, and
the usages that have long prevailed in New England among land
proprietors of townships situated there. Smith's Laws of Maine,
175 ; 3 Shepley, 401 ; 12 Pick. 534 ; 3 Fairfield, 398 ; 10 Mass.
R. 146 ; 3 Pick. 396 ; 12 Mass. R. 415 ; 2 Greenleaf, 213
4 New Hamp. R. 99 ; 3 Vermont R. 290 ; 6 Vermont R. 208.
In conclusion, it has been urged against the judgment we have
formed in favor of the right of the demandant, that several actions
have been tried in Maine, where his interests have been brought in
question as to the premises, and decisions had against him ; and
that such local adjudications in respect to the titles to real estate
should control the opinions of this court. 9 Cranch, 87 ; 2
Wheat. 316 ; 10 Wheat. 152 ; 12 Wheat. 153 ; 2 Gallis. 105.
But on examining the particulars of the cases cited to govern this
.(3 Fairfield, 398 ; 4 Shepley, 84, 88 ; 14 Maine R. 51), it will
be seen that the construction of the mortgage to the College, in respect to this reservation or condition, never appears to have'been
agitated. If it had been, the decision would be entitled to high respect, though it should not be regarded as conclusive on the mere
construction of a deed as to matters and language belonging to the common law, and not to any local statute. 3 Sumner's R. 136,
277.
Let the judgment below be affirmed.

