JAN.UAR-Y TERM, 1846.

289

Zeller's Lessee v. Eckert et al.

interest, or on which interest is given in the name of damages."
Nor is it to be considered, by any thing which the court has done
upon the motion, that any sanction is given to any other mode of
computing interest.

ZELLER'S LESSEE V. JAcoB K. ECKERT'<AND OTHERS.
Under a will which devised laud to the son of the testator, and provided that the
widow should continue in possession and occupation of the premises until the
son arrived at the age of fteen years, she was entitled to their possession and
enjoyment until the time when tie child would have reached the age of fifteen
if he had lived, although he died before that time.
Her possession, therefore, was not adverse to the heirs of the child, during that
penod.
Where the original possession by the holder of land is in privity with the titje of
the rightful owner, in order to enable such holder to avail himself of the statute
of limitations, nothing short of an open and explicit disavowal and (disclaimer of
holding under that title, and assertion of title in himself brought home to the
other party, will satisfy the law.
The burden of proof is on the holder to establish such a change in the character of
the possession.
The statute does not begin to run until the possession becomes tortious ana wrongful by the disloyal acts of the tenant, which must be open, continued, and notorious, so as to preclude all doubt as to the character of the holding, or the want of
knowledge on.he part of the owners.
In this case there was evidence enough given upon this'point to authorize the court
below to submit the question of adverse possession to the jury, and advise them
that a foundation was laid upon which they might presume a grant for the purpose of quieting the tide.
The whole charge of the judge to the jury is incorporated into this record. This
mode of making up the error books is exceedingly inconvenient
and embarrassing
to the court, and is a departure from familiar and established practice.
So far as error is founded upon the bill of eiceptions incorporated into the record,
it lies only to exceptions taken at tfie trial, and to the ruling of the law by the
judge, and to the admission or rejection of evidence. And only so much of the
evidence as may be necessary to present the legal questions thus raised and noted
should be carried into the bill of exceptions. All beyond serves to encumber
and confuse the record, and to perplex and embarrass both court and counsel.
The earlier forms under the statute giving the bill of exceptions are models which
it would be wise to consult and adhere to.

THis was a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, to bring up for
review certain instructions to the jury in an action of ejectment
brought by the plaintiff in error against the defendants in error, and
in which the latter obtained the verdict.
Frederick White was the owner of the premises in question,
being part of a small tract of"land situate in the county of Lncaster, Pennsylvania, of which he died seized in March, 1798, leaving
a last will and testament by which he devised the said land in fee to
Frederick White, Jr., his only'child, who ivas then about four years
of age. He also provided in the will that his widow should conVOL. IV.

37

Y

290

SUPREME COURT.
Zeller's Lessee v. Eckert etal.

tinue in possession and occupation of the premises till the son
arrived at the age of fifteen.
The widow married again in about nine months after the decease
of her husband, Frederick White, to one George Eckert. One of
the defendants, Jacob K. Eckert, is a son of that marriage, who was
born in 1799. The other defendants claim under him.
Frederick White, Jr., the son, died in 1800, then about six years
of age, leaving his mother and Jacob K. Eckert, the half-brother,
surviving.
The mother resided upon the farm about one year, and then left
the possession; but her husband had the charge of it, occupying
and improving the land, leasing the same and receiving the rents and
profits, till their son became of age, when he went into the possession and management, and he and those claiming under him have
been in the possession and occupation of the same down to the
present time. The farm has always been occupied, improved, and
claimed as belonging to the half-brother, first by Eckert, the father,
during his minority, and afterwards by the son (Jacob K.) himself,
and those under him. Large and valuable improvements have been
made while rt was thus occupied.
Frederick White, the testator, was a native of Germany, and
emigrated to this country as early as 1755, and soon after settled
in Lancaster county, and purchased the premises in question,
where he resided till his death, in 1798, being then about eighty
years of age.
The lessors of the plaintiff claim to be the descendants of a halfsister, .whom he left in Germany, and to be the heirs at law of
Frederick White, Jr., the deceased son. Evidence was given on
the trial tending to establish the heirship derivable from this source,
and which constitutes their title to the premises.
It further appeared, that, as early as 1806, a family of the name
of Bonert, another branch of the descendants of the half-sister, instituted action of ejectment against George Eckert, the father of
the defendant, in the Common Pleas of Lancaster county, to
recover the premises, as the heirs of the deceased son, Frederick
White, Jr. This litigation appears to have been continued till 1810,
when the controversy was.referred to arbitrators, and an award made
against the plaintiffs.
Another suit in ejectment was brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, by the
same plaintiff, which ended in a compromise between the parties,
in 1818, by whom it was agreed that the property should be
appraised, the plaintiffs to haVe one third, and Jacob K. Eckert,
the half-brother, the remaining two thirds ; and that they should cast
lots in order to determine which of the parties should have the
land, and pay the valuation according to their proportion. The
land was appraised at the sum of $24,000 ; the plaintiffs got the

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

291

Zeller's Lessee v. Eckert et al.

right to make their dlection, and they chose the land, by which they
became obligated to pay to Eckert the sum of $ 16,000, in one year
from the time the election was made. They failed to make the
payment in pursuance of the agreement, and in 1823 ajudgment was
recovered against them for the amount, and interest, and all their
right and title to the property was sold on execution, under the
judgment, to Jacob K. Eckert, the half-brother.
It further appeared, that the lessors of the plaintiff in the
present suit, called the Shultzheiss branch of the descendants of the
half-sister, also brought suits against George Eckert, executor of
the estate of Frederick White, the testator, to recover their share
of the personal property, in the Common Pleas of Lancaster
county, which in 1810 was referred to arbitrators, and an award
made against them.
The latter were the only suits instituted by this branch of the
heirs till the present suit was instiiuted to recover the real estate,
which was commenced in April, 1834, and of course has been
pending for nearly twelve years.
When the testimony closed, the counsel for the plaintiff prayed
the court to instruct the jury, that, inasmuch as the- widow of
Frederick White was directed by his will to keep possession of
the land until the son to whom it was devised should arrive at the
age of fifteen, the possession by her and her husband was to be considered in the character of trustees of the estate for his benefit ; and
after his death, for the benefit of-those who might be entitled to the
inheritance as heirs at law ; and that the possession, therefore, was
not adverse to the plaintiff's title ; that the trust having once ttached, the possession of Eckert and wife could not become adverse
to the title of the cestuis que trust.
Which instruction the court refused, and charged the jury as follows :" That, however true it might be, in point. of fact, that the
widow and her husband did enter ugfon and continue the -''ssession of the land as trustees for young White, or his heirs, lp to
any stated period, the legal consequences asserted by the plaintiff's
counsel would not result. A trustee of any descriptibn may disavow and disclaim his trust, though it is in the utmost bad faith, or
in violation of his express agreement, from which time his possession
of lands, money, or chattels, held under an original trust, becomes
adverse, so as to bar an action of account after six years, or an
ejectment in twenty-one years after notice of the disavowal, discJlaimer, and adverse possession is given to the person entitled to
the benefit of the execution of the trust."
"That notice of the
disclaimer puts the true owner under the same obligation to reclaim
the possession within the fixed period, as if no trust had ever
existed ; -and it matters not whether the trust began by the voluntary act of the trustee, or the law made him a trustee against, his

292

SUPREiE COURT.
Zeller's Lessee v. Eckert et al.

will, as the result of his situation or conduct." And further, "6That
taking all the testimony in the cause in connection, the court thought
the jury would be justified in finding that the possession of the defendants, from the death of young White, was adverse to the right
and title of the plaintiff, and that George Eckert held it for his son;
-and that, should this be their opinion, the statute of limitations began to run against the right in 1809, and had its full effect in 1830,.
by a continued adverse possession df twenty-one years."
-The court also instructed the jury that they were authorized,
from the fact of the, lessors of the plaintiff having made a claim to
the estate of Frederick White, Sen., as early as 1806, and afterwirds abandoning it till 1834, together with the other facts and circumstances in the case, to presume a grant to Jacob K. Eckert
from the heirs.
To all which -instructions the counsel for the plaintiff excepted,
and a verdict was rendered for the defendants.
The cause was argued by Mr. Charles J. Ingersoll, for the
plaintiff in error, and Mr. Scott, for defendants.
Mr. Ingersoll, for the plaintiff in error, said that the opinion of
the Circuit Court was, that the plaintiff wats barred by limitation.
But the widow was directed by the will to hold the property for the
child, and both she and her husband were trustees for the child and.
his heirs. The trust once existed, - that is certain. But the court
-say that a trustee may disavow'- his trust, and establish his own
right, "though it is in the utmost bad faiih, or in violation of his
express agreement." It is 'very true that a trustee may disavow
his trust, and give notice that he means to hold the property in his
own right; and in such case the other party is required to take
care of himself. But the law will not sanction bad faith. In the
charge of the court, it is said, also, that the effect of the record and
writings introduced in evidence was for the court to decide ; but
the 4Uestion was a mixed one of law and fact. 7,Wheat. 535; 5
Petefk. 438, 440, 491, 493 ; 11 Peters, 51 ; 6 Peters, 743; 3
Peters, 48 ; 4 Peters, 500; 10 Peters, 221, 226.
These cases do pot sustain the doctrine stated by the Circuit
Coort, namely, that "a trustee of any description may disavow and
disclaim his trust, though it is in the utmost bad faith, or in violation
of'his express agreement; from which time his possession of lands,
money, or chattels, held under an original trust, becomes adverse,
so as to bar an action of account after six years, or an ejectment in
twenty-one, after notice of the disavowal, disclaimer, and adverse
possession is given to the person entitled to the benefit of the execution of the trust."
The case in 2 Sch. and Lefr. 628, 636, is stronger, it must be
admitted, in favor of the doetrine, but the case in 14 Serg. &

JANUARY '_ ERM, 1846.

293

Zeller's Lessee v. Eckert et al.

Rawle, 570, does not bear out the Circuit Court. See 1 Binney,
575, and also 14 Serg. & Rawle, 333.
The Pennsylvania cases all look to the fairness of the transaction,
but here the court say that it was natural for the party holding to
believe that the- property belonged to him, and that these German
heirs must have known that the trustee was claiming it in his own
right.
MT
r. Scott, for defendants.
There is no bill of exceptions in the record. It ought to be
signed and sealed, and this couit cannot notice an exception which
does not come up in that way. 3 Peiers, 418 ; 4 Peters, 104 ; 3
Wheat. 651.
The charge of the judge below has been misunderstood. He
inculcates no immoral principles. It was necessary for the jury to
find the- intention of the party, for it is one of the elements of adverse possession." If it is natural for a father to consider himself as
holding property for his son, then this natural feeling is one of the
evidences of intention, and it was not wrong in the judge to'indicate
to .the jury all the sources from which they would be enabled to
find the intention.
The intention is important. 5 Peters, 438, 440, 500.
The judge in his charge refers to the escheat laws of Pennsylvania, by which th, estate would have gone to the hati-$rother for
the want of other heirs of young White, with the unsettled state of
the laws of descent for more than thirty years afterwards, and says,
it "1is a powerful consideration in our minds to denote a contrary
intention." See Purdon's Digest, 384, or 2 Dallas, 552, or 2
Smith, 425 ; 3 Yeates, 400.
So the law stood until overruled by 7 Serg. & Rawle, 397, in
1831. Was it a fault or crime in a father to hold for his son, under this state of the law, or in a judge to say so ?
Statutes of limitations are to be enforced by courts, and disabilities, in order to exonerate a party from their operation, are not to
be heaped one upon another. 7.Serg. & Rawle, 209; 1 Watts,
341.
It has been said, that the judge argued the case too much. But
this court has nothing to do with the comments of the court below upon evidence; its only province is to correct mistakes in law.
4 Peters, 1 ; 3 Howard, 205.
The charge expr6ssly says, that the jury are to decide, without
being bound by the opinion of the court.
It is also said, that the claim, having been made within eighteen
years, will prevent the statute from running. The statute of Pennsylvania requires the suit to be brought within twenty-one years,
and a suit upon some collateral matter is not sufficient. If there
is no such exception in the statute, the court can make none.
y *

294

SUPREME COURT.
Zeller's Lessee r. Sckert et al.

The very fact of litigation shows the possssion to have been adverse. 3 Howard, 674.
The statute of limitations is found in 2 Dallas, .81, or 2 Smith,
299.
There are no exceptions on the record of this case, and no instructions asked. White died in'1798, and directed his widow to
keep possession, but not for his son, as is said by the other side.
The will is not in the record, and is only found in the charge of
the judge. But it is stated in 1 Binney, 576. The widow's gfteen years were out in 1809. She married again in 1798, and the
defendants sold and leased the property. In 1809, some claimants
appeared and brought suits, which were compromised. The, language of the judge which is complained of contains the doctrine
of this court. 7 Wheat. 535, 549 ; 3 Peters, 48, 52; 4 Peters,
500; 5 Peters, 438, 440, 491-493; 10 Peters, 221, 226.
See also Preston on Abstracts, 376 ; 1 Watts, 275 ; 7 Johns.
Ch. Rep. 100; 3 Howard, 411; 1 Howard, 189.
.Mr. Ingersoll, in reply.
The agreement of dounsel which is found in the record removes
all-difficulty which might arise from there being no bill of exceptions
signed and sealed. The reason why such an agreement was made
is, that there were two ejectments pending,'in one of which there
was a long trial, and the court gave the charge which is in the
recordr: In the second case it was thought unnecessary to have
another charge, and we agreed" to bring the case up, adopting the
charge in the first case. The case comes up someu hat irregularly,
but Judge Sergeant has said that short pleadings are sanctiored by
the bill of rights.
There is only one main point in the case, which is, whether or
not there was an implied trust in the property. How far trusts are
within the statutes of limitation, see 2 Preston on Abstracts, 375;
7 Johns. Ch.R. 90.
We dd not deny that atrustee can repudiate the title of his cestui que use, but we say that such repudiation must be distinct -nd
explicit. And as the widow was 'directed, by her first husband's
will, to hold the premises for the first son till fifteen years of age,
she and her second husband, Eckert, held as trustees, and no adverse possession took place. During the first six years, as long as
the first son lived, it clearly was a trust, and this trust was never
disowned. The charge of the court below included the discussion
of this fact of adverse possession, and thus excluded the jury from
the consideration of what belonged to them alone. We say,
therefore, that there was error.
Mr. Justi i- NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
According to the true construction of the will of Frederick

JANUARY

TE..RM, 1846.

295

Zeller's Lessee v. Eckert et al.

White, we are inclined to think that the widow was entitled to
The possession and enjoyment of the premises in question down to
the year 1809, when the son would have arrived at the age of
fifteen had he survived, notwithstanding his death in 1800, some
nine years short of that time, as the .testator probably intended the
rents and profits during this period as a part of her provision in
the settlement of his estate. The right of entry, therefore, did
not accrue t6 the lessors of the plaintiff till that time. Then the
widow and her husband were bound to surrender the possession to
the son had' he lived, and of consequence to his heirs at law in
the event of his death.
The statute of limitations attached and began to run from this
period, provided the evidence is sufficient to raise an adverse possession on the part of the defendants, in hostility to the title of the
heirs.
Tfiis suit was commenced in April, 1834, some twenty-five
years from the time the right of entry accrued. The statute of
limitations in the State of Pennsylvania is twenty-one years.
.The original possession of Eckert, the husband of the widow,
being confessedly in subordination to the title of the younger
White during his lifetime, and after his decease to the, title of the
heirs at law, down to 1809, when the right to occupy under the
will ceased, the burden lay upon him to establish a change in the
character of the possession after this period ; and being thus in
privity with the title of the rightful owner, nothing short of an
open and explicit'disavdwal and disclaimer of a holding under that
title, and assertion of title in himself, or in his son, the halfbrother, brought home to the lessors of the plaintiff, will satisfy
the law. Short of this, he will still be regarded as holding in subserviency to the rightful title. There are authorities maintaining
the doctrine, that a party standing in the relation of Eckert to the
title in question is incapable in law of imparting, by any act of his
own, an adverse character to his possession ; and that, in order to
deny or dispute the title, he must first surrender the possession,
and place the owner in the condition he stood before' the possession was taken under him. This doctrine was supposed to govern
the rights of trustee and cestui que trust, landlord' and tenant,
vendor and vendee, tenants in common, &c., and that no lapse of
time would lay a foundation for a statute bar to the .right of entry
by reason of an adverse possession between parties standing in this
relation, or any others in like privity.
The law, however, has been settled otherwise. The trustee
may disavow and disclaim his trust ; the -tenant, the title of his
landlord after the expiration of his lease ; the vendbe, the title of
his vendor after breach of the contract ; and the tenant in common,
the title of his cotenant ; and drive the respective owners and
claimants to their action within the period of the statute of limita-

290

SUPREME

COURT.

Zeller's Lessee v. Eckert et al.

tions. 2 Bos. & Pul. 542-; 5 Barn. & Ald. 232; Cowp. 217;
2-Stark. Ev. 887 ; 7 Johns. Ch. R. 90 ; 20 Johns. R. 565 ; 4
Serg. & Rawle, 310; 7 Wheat. 548;.43 Peters, 52, 0. & H.'s
note, Pt. 1, notes, 307, 31.1, and cases ; 2 Sch. & Left. 633;
2 Jac. & Walk. 1, 191.
The only distinction between this class of cases and those in
which no privity between the parties existed when the possession
commenced is in the degree of proof required to establish the adverse character of the possession. As that was originally taken
and held in subservienay to the .title of the real owner, a clear,
positive, and contihlzpd disclaimer and disavowal- of the title, and
assertion of an adverse right, and to be brought+ome to the party,
are indispensable before any foundation can be laid for the operation of the statute. Otherwise, the grossest injusticr might be
practised ; for, without such notice, he might well rely upon the
fiduciary relations under which the possession was originally taken
and held, and upon the subordinate c iaracter of the possession as
the legal result of those relations.
The statute, therefore, does not begin to operate until, the possession, before consistent with the title of the real owner, becomes
tortious and wrongful by the disloyal acts of the tenant, which
must be open, continued, and notorious, so as to preclude all doubt
as to the character of.the holding, or the want of knowledge on
the part-of the owner. If he then neglects to enforce his rights by
action within the period fixed by the statute, the loss, as in, every
other case of the kind, is attributable to his own laches, and not to
the law.
The main question, therefore, here is, as to the sufficiency of
the'proof. It appears,-that as early as 1809 the heirs claiming
here instituted actions against Eckert, as executor of Frederick
White, the testator, to recover their share of the personal estate,
as next of kin to the younger White, which were resisted, on the
ground-tha whole estate belonged to the half-brother,'and the claim
defeated. Another branch of the same family, at an earlier date
(1806), insiituted actions, of ejectment to recover their share of
the real estate, which were resisted upon like ground, and like result. Both branches of the litigation were brought to a close in
1810. The latter branch (not the parties here) again renewed the
litigation to recover the realty in 1816, which terminated in 1818
by compromise, with a view to put an end to the controversy, but
which fell through, by reason of the failure of the plaintiffs to fulfil
the conditions of the settlement.
The present is the first suit brought by this branch of the heirs
to recover the real estate, and which was commenced after the
lapse of twenty-five. years from the time their right of entry accrued, and after the lapse of the same period, also, from the termination of a litigation on behalf of themselves and their co-heirs

-JANIFJAAY TI M. 11846&
Zel

2"7

rs' Lese~e v. Eokert 't aL

to recover the estate, real and personal, in'which the present defendant succeeded. During all this time their title has been disavowed and resisted4 and the right and title.of the half-brother of
the younger White aserted asid maintained; and the property occupied, cultiated, and improved under this claim of title and ownership ; and portions of it are now in possession of bond fide purchasers, upon which large and valuable erecions and itaprovements
have been maUe.
We are satisfied, therefore, that the court below were right in
submitting the question of adverse possession to the jury ; as there
was evidence enough, even within the strictest rules of law on this
subject, arising out of the fiduciary relation in which the defendant
originally stood to the title, to make this the duty of the court.
And, further, looking at all the -facts and circumstances disclosed
at the trial, and characterizing the possession, occupation) and improvement of the property, we cannot say that any error was committed in also advising the jury that a foundation was laid upon
which they might presdime a grant for the purpose of quieting the
title.
Twenty years' possession by one of two tenants in common,
accompanied with an exclusive appropriation of the rents and profits,
acquiesc6d in by the cotenant, has been held to afford the presumption of a conveyance from the party out of the possession
(Cowp. 217), and the same length of time, coupled with other
circumstances, a conveyance or release of an equity of redemption to the mortgdgee in possession (9 Wheat. 490, 497, 498).
The facts and circumstances in this case, in connection with the
length of the possession and occupation, are much stronger in favor
of allowing the presumption, than existed in several cases where
the doctrine has been applied.
The charge of the court below is a most elaborate one, discu-, ing at large both the law and the facts upon general principles
and upon authorities, as well as in rbference to the particular questions involved, and the whole incorporated into the record.
Some of the comments, both upon the law and the facts, are justly
liable to the criticisms made by the learned counsel on the argument. But, looking at the whole case, and the main grounds upon
which it was placed before the jury, we cannot say that the appellate court should interfere, or that the parts obnoxious to the criticisms afford ground of review and reversal on a writ of error.
This mode of making up the error books is' exceedingly inconvenient and embarrassing to the court, and is a departure from familiar and established practice.
So far as error is founded upon the bill of exceptions incorporated into the record, it lies, only to exceptions taken at the.trial to
the ruling of the law by the judge, and to the admission or rejection of evidence. (iBac. Abr. 779 ; Bull. N. P. 316.) Beyond this
VOL. IV.
38

298

SUPREME COURT.
Knox et a]. v. Smith et al.

we have no power to look into the bill, on a writ of error, as it is
the creature of statute, and restricted to the points stated. 13 Edw.
1, c. 31. And only so much of the evidence given on the trial as
may be necessary to pesent the legal questions thus raised and
noted should be carried into the bill of exceptions. All beyond
serves only to enctimber and confuse the record, and to peiplex
and embarrass both court and counsel.
We have no concern, on a writ of error, with questions of fact, or
whether the finding of the jury accords with the weight of the evidence. The law has provided another remedy for errors of this
description, namely, a motion in the court below for a new trial,
on a case made. More attention t6 the practice in drawing up the
bill of exceptions, and to method and order in making up the error
books,-would greatly relieve the court, avd enable counsel to bring
out more readily and distinctly for- coiisideration the legal questions involved. The earlier forms under the statute giving the bill
of exceptions are models which it would be wise to consult and
adhere to.
We think the judgment in the Circuit Court should be afrmed.

JoHN KNo, J~xts Bowas, AND Simas A. KNqox, TRADING
FiRx or KNox, BOGGS, & Co., APPELLANTS, v. PEYTON

UNDER T=E
SMrTH AND

OTHERS, DEFENDANTS.

A bill in chancery which recites, that the complainants had recovered ajudgment at
law in a court of the United States, upon which an execution had issued and been
levied upon certain property by the marshal; that another person, claiming to
hold the property levierupon by virtue of some fraudulent deed of trust, had obtained a process from a State court, by which the sheriff had taken the property

out of the hands of the marshal; and praying that the property might be sol,
I
cannot be sustained.
If the object had been to set aside the deed of trust as fraudulent, the fraud, with
the facts connected with it, should have been alleged in the bill.
There exists a plain remedy at law. The marshal might have brought trespass
against the sheri or applied to the court of the United States for an attach.
mient.
No relief can be given by a court of equity, unless the complainant, by his allegations and proof, has shown that he is entitled to relief.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of West Tennessee, sitting as a court of equity.
The appellants had filed a bill against the defendants, which bill
was-dismissed by the Circuit Court.
The facts in the case were these.
On the 23d of March, 1839, Probert P. Collier, of the county
of Tipton and State of Tennessee, executed to Peyton Smith, of
the same State, a deed of trust, reciting the indebtedness of Collier
to sundry persons, and proceeding as follows :-

