59

8UPREME COURT.
Erwin's Lessee v. Dundas et al.

any title-or right wich the complainant claimed under the Vhoctaw treaty, or under the law of Congress which he states to have
been passed upon the subject. For he does not ask for a conveyance of the reservations, nor of the Indian title to them. And he
does not even aver that these caims are valid, or that he has any
title to them ; but, on the contrary, charges that none of the claims
had been secured, and states that he did not think it probable that
they would' be obtained by the assignees of the Indians. And as
the case has been removed here from the decision of a state court,
we have no right to, review it unless the complainant claimed some
right under the treaty w" h the Choctaws or the act of Congress,
and the decision of the state court had been against the right, title,
or privilege specially set up by him ; and even in that case, the
power of-revision given to this court extends no further than to the
particular question thus raised and decided against the party. In
the case before us, no such title, right, or privilege was claimed by
the bill, and of course no decision was made against it in the state
court. We therefore, can exercise no jurisdiction in the case, and
are not authorized to exdmine any questions of fraud or failure of
consideration, or breach of contract, which the bill may be supposed
to present, and upon which the court of the State of Tennessee
may now decide.
Upon referring to the reports of this court, it will he seen that
the 25th section of the act of Congress of 1789, under which this
writ of error is brought, has been often the subject of examination
and comment in this court, and the construction of the section and
the practice under it well settled by many decisions. It is unnecessary to repeat here what- the court have said upon former occasions. It is very clear, that this case is not within the provisions
of the section, and the writ of error must therefore be dismissed for
want of jurisdiction.

JAxEs ERwin's LESSEE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. JAXES DU"DAZ ET AL.
Although, by the law of"Alabama, where an execution has issued during the lifetime of a defendant, but has not been actually levied, an alias or phezi may go
after his death, and the personal estate of the deceased levied upon and sold to
sansfy the judgment, yet this is not so with respect to the real estate.
By the common law, the writ offierifacias had relation back to its test, and ii the
execution was tested during the lifetime of a deceased defendant, it might be taken
out and levied upon his goods and chattels Afler his death.
But if an execution issues and bears testa after the death of the defendant, it is ir..
regular and void, and cannot be enforced against either the real or personal property of the defendant. The judgment must first be revived against the heirs or
devisees in the one case, or personal representatives in tho other.
$uch is the settled law where there is but one defendant.
Where there are two defendants, one of whom has died, the judgment canwt bg

JANUARY TERM,

1846.

59

Erwia's Lessee v. Dundas et al.
enforced by execution sgsist the real estate of the murvivor alone; and as it has
to isue agst

the real estate of both, thereal estate ot-e deceased is protected

by the same law which would govern the case if he had been the sole defendant.
The judgment
must
be revived
by aa~rfa,.
Before-and
since the
Statute
of Westminster
2d (Which subjected lands lo an elegit),
ajudgment against two defendants survived against the personal estateof
the survi'vor, and execution could'be taken out against him, within a year, without
a
cidrs
facias.
But before the reel estate of the deceased
to execution,
ment, which does not survive
the judg.
to the can
real be
estate,
2ssubjected
must be
revived against
the

surviving defendant, and against the heirs, devisees, and terre-ten- tt ofthe de-

ceased.
The
interest of new parties would otherwis be liable to be suddenly direted without notice.
In these views, the highest court of the State of Alabama concurs. (See 6Alima Rep. 657h)

T is case came up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of

the United States for the Southern District of Alabama.
It was'an action of ejectment brought by Erwin, the plaintiff in
error, to recover a lot in the city of Mobile, known as Hitchcock's
cotton-press,
on the north by Main Street, on the east by
Water Street,bounded
on the south
by Massachusetts Street, and on the west
by Royal Street, nider the following state of facts.
Prior to November, 1836, Henry Hitchcock was seized and
possessed
of the
above lot,
andhim
on the
of November,
judgment was
recovered
against
in the2dCircuit
Court of1836,
Alaba-a
ma for Mobile county, by William McGehee, to the use of Abner
McGehee.
By the laws of Alabama, this judgment was a lien upon the defendants' real estate.
On the 21st of December, 1836, Hitchcock sued out a writ of
error to the Supreme Curt of Alabama, giving the usual bod,
with" Robert D. James as surety whereby the judgment was superseded.
On the 23d of June, 1838, the judgment of the Circuit Court
was affirmed in the Supreme Court, which anfiyWmaMce, by the laws
of Alabama, operated as a judgment on the bond in error, against
both parties obgors.
On the 14th of July, 1838, Hitchcock executed a mortgage of
the lot in question to Cowperthwaite, Dunlap, and Cope, to secure
the payment of a debt due to them.
On the 18th of August, 1838, a ft. fa. issued from the
Circuit
(.ovrt clerk's oabmce, on the affrmed judgment against H. Hitchcock, and Robert D. James, his security; which writ came tothe
bands of the sheriff of Mobile county, bing for the amount of the
debt, besides the ten per cent. damages.
The sheriff indorsed
that he received this execution o the 20th of August, and levied
the same on ceitain lots in Mobile, as the property of Robert D.
James, and returned it to the fall term.
On the 10th of October, 1838, Hitchcock, with the consent of

60

SUPREME COURT.
Erwin's Lessee v. Dundas et al.

the mortgagees, leased the property to Mansoney and Hurtell for a
term of five years.
On the 29th of November, 1838, a venditioni exponas issued to
the sheriff, commanding him to sell the property, oh which he had
levied, as shown by his return. To this venditioni exponas, he returned that he had advertised the property for sale, and that on the
2d day of March, 1839, all further proceedings had been stopped
by an injunction.
On the 2d of March, 1839, Henry Hitchcock filed in chancery
a bill against McGehee, praying, for causes shown in the bill, relief
against the judgment at law, and that the same should be enjoined.
On this bill, an order was made for an injunction in the following
words "On the ccnplainant's executing bond, with good and sufficient
security, in double the amount of the judgment at law, let an injunction issue agreeably to the prayer of the bill.

"P. T. HARRIS.
" 28th .February,1839.
" To the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Mobile County, Alabama."
The complainant, Hitchcock, filed a ,bond by himself and William Crawford, as his security, in the penal sum of $ 8,404, payable to McGehee, dated the 2d of March, 1839, with a condition
which, after reciting the rendition of the judgment, the filing the
bill, and granting of the injunction, &c., ran in these words :"Now, therefore, if the said Henry Hitchcock shall pay and
satisfy all damages that the defendant McGehee may sustain by the
wrongful exhibition of said bill, and in all things abide by and perform the ultimate decree which may be rendered in the cause,
then this obligation to be void and of no effect ; otherwise to be
and remain in full force and virtue."
A writ of injunction 'issued on the 2d of March, 1839, commanding the sheriff to stay proceedings on the execution; on
which he returned, that on the same day he desisted from all farther proceedings, and returned the execution as enjoined.
On the 12th of August, 1839, Hitchcock died.
At the fall term of the Chancery Court, on the 25th of November, 1839, the following order was made in the cause HIHTCHCOCK V.

MoGEHEE.

" This day came the defendant, by his. solicitor, and suggests to
the court, that the complainant has died since the last term of this
court; and thereupon it is ordered, on motion of defendant's coun.sel, that the representatives of the complainant revive the proceedings by bill against the defendant, by -he 1st day of April next, or

JANUARY TERM; 1846.

61

Erwin's Lessee v. Duadas e: al.

the injunction shall be from thence dissolved, and the defendant
have leave to proceed at law."
At the Spring term, 1840, the 22d of May, 1840, the following
order was made :"At the last term of this court, an order was made suggesting
the death of the complainant, and that unless the suit be revived
on or before the first day of the next term of said court, that the
injunction be dissolved, and no party complainant being made, it
is ordered that the suit abate, and that the complainant's admintrator, and heirs, andsecurity on the injunction bond5 pay the costs."
Hitchcock by his will bequeathed all his real and personal property to his wife, as trustee, with authority to -make public or- private sales and conveyances for payment of debts, and constituted
her executrix.
On the 8th of July, 1840, Mrs. Hitchcock, without having taken
out letters testamentary on the will, made an absolute.sale and conveyance of the lot in question to Cbwperthwaite, &c., subject to
the lease above mentioned.
On the 10th. of July, 1840, an alias ft. fa. issued on the affirmed judgment ht law against Henry Hitchcock and Robert D.
James, for the amount of the debt, arid ten per cent, damages,
given on affirmance, which came to the hands of the sheriff of
Mobile county; on which he returned, that. he had levied on the
land (now the subject of this action of ejectment), as the property of Henry Hitchcock, pointed out to him by Isaac H. Erwin,
executor of Henry Hitchcock, deceased; and that, on the first
Monday of November, 1840, he had -sold the said land to James
Erwin, who was the highest bidder, for four thousand five hundred
dollars.
On the loth of February, 1841; the tenants attorned to Cowperthwaite, &c., as landlords.
On the 3d of March, 1841, 'Erwin brought this suit against the
tenants, who thereupon attorned to him, and agreed to hold under
him as landlord.
On the 8th of September, 1841, Cowperthwaite, &c., conveyed
all their estate and interest in the premises to Dundas and others,
the present defendants in error, who, on the 22d of March, 1842,
applied to the court to be admitted into the consent rule, and to
defend the action as landlords, on filing certain affidavits. This
motion was resisted -ay the plaintiff Erwin, and also by th( tenants;
but in March, 1843, the court admitted them to defend the suit.
Wheredpon the cause went to trial, and, under the instructions.of
the court, the jury found a v~rdict for the defendants.
The plaintiff took the two following bills of exceptions.
First Exception. -"1Be it remembered, that at the Spring term,
1843, of this Court, James Dundas, Mordecai D. Lewis, Robert L.
VOL. IV.

P

62

SUPREME COURT.
Erwin's Lessee v. Dundas, et al.

Pittfield, Samuel W. Jones, and Robert Howell, appeared before
the court by their counsel, and filed the affidavit of -H. Barney,
which is made part of this bill of exceptions, and moved the court
to be admitted to appear and defend the action against the plaintiff
by entering into the consent, rule, and pleading. The tenants in
possession, Hurtell, Mansoney, and Griffiths, resisted the said motion, and showed cause on oath against the same, which showing,
which is on file, is made a part of this bill of exceptiong, together
with the documents thereto appertaining and referred to, and the
said motion was also resisted by the plaintiff. Whereupon, the
said motion coming on to be.heard, the same was argued, and the
hearing of said motion was continued from term to term till at this
term, when the said motion was argued, and upon argument had,
the said motion of the said applicants, clainfing to be landlords, was
granted, and the objections of the said plaintiffs, and of the tenants
thereto, were overruled. And ihe said parties, admitted by the
court, to defend against the will of the said plaintiff and tenants,
and the said tenants thereupon, refused to plead. For all which
decisions of the court allowing said motion, the plaintiff excepts,
and prays this to be sealed as a bill of exceptions, which is done
accordingly.
(Signed,)
J. McKINLEY. [SEAL.]"
Second Exception. "Be it remembered, that on the trial of
this cause, on the issue joined between the said plaintiff and, the
said James Dundas, Mordecai D. Lewis, Robert L. Pittfield, Samuel W. Jones, and Robert Howell, who have appeared as landlords,
and entered into the consent rule, and pleaded not guilty ; the
plaintiff, to maintain the title, on his part, produced and gave in evidence the proceedings had in the Circuit Court of Mobile county,
in the State of Alabama, in an action wherein William McGehee,
use of, &c., was plaintiff, and Henry Hitchcock was defendant,
together with the .judgment, executions, sheriff's returns, &c.,
copies of all which are hereto annexed, marked A. Also, the
proceedings of the Supreme Court of Alabama on the affirmance
of said judgment, a copy of which is hereto annexed, marked B.
Also, 'the record of the proceedings in a chancery suit, wherein
the said judgment was enjoined, the injunction, &c.,'a copy of which
And the sheriff's deed on the sale of
is herewith, marked C.
the property in controversy by the sher'ff of Mobile county, under the said judgirent, after the injunctioi was dissolved, a copy
of which is herewith, marked D, showing that the same was purchased by James Erwin.
" It further appeared that Henry Hitchcock died on the 13th of
August, 1839, that at and before the time of the rendition of the
judgments, he owned in fee simple and was in the possession of the
property sued for and sold by the sheriff, and continued so till his

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

63

Erwin's Lessee v. Dundas et al.

death, except that he executed a mortgage on the 14th of August,
1838, by which he conveyed the said land to Messrs. -Dunlap,
Cope, and Cowperthwaite, under whom the defendants claim title.
" Upon the evidence offered by the plaintiff, the court instructed
the jury that the sale by the sheriff was irregular and void, and that
by such lturchase at the sheriff's sale, under the said judgments,
and the executions .aforesaid, and the injunction proceedings, the
sale and conveyance by the sheriff could convey no title to the
plaintiff, and that therefore he was not entitled to recover in this
action ; to which the plaintiff excepts, and prays the court to seal
this as a bill of exceptions, which is done accordingly.
(Signed,)
J. McKINLEY. [SEAL.]"
Upon these two exceptions the case came upto this Court.
The case was argued by .r.
George S. Yerger (in a printed
argument) and .41r. Crittenden, for the plaintiff in error, and 11r.
Clement Cox, and Jfr. Sergeant, for the defendants.
.Mr. Crittenden, after stating the case for the plaintiff in error,
read the following opening argument by JI'fr. Yerger, viz. :The record in this case presents for the determination of the
court two questions. First, whether the sheriff's ale to the lessor
of the plaintiff, under and by virtue of the execution, issued after
the death of Judge Hitchcock, but founded on a judgment obtained
against him in his lifetime, is void. Second, whether the injunction obtained by Judge Hitchcock in his lifetime destroyed the
lien of the judgment, or only suspended it.
I think the law upon both questions is in favor of the j)laintiff

inerror.
By the law of Alabama, the judgtnent, not the.execution, creates'
the lien upor. lands. By the common law, an execution on a judg.
ment may issue at any time within a year, without a scire facias.
A sale made by or under such execution relates to he judgment,
and passes the title from that time, as against the judgmrnt debtor,
and all who claim un er him. If he had sold or assigned the
property, no seirefacias was necessary to make his vendees parties
before execution issued, because the land was bound by the judgment, and his alienees took it cur onere. Upon his death, his irterest, by operation of law, is transmitted to his heirs, or is vested
by his will in his devisees; they,-like the vendee or alienee, ,take it
subject to the judgment. Be this, however, as it may, I believe,
upon principle, it is clear, that, if an execution issues on a judgment
within a year from the rendition of the judgment, though after the
death of the defendant, if it is not superseded or avoided by the
heir or terre-tenant, or by the guardian of the heir, before a sale is
made under it, it passes the title of the ancestor from the date of the
judgment. The execution in such case is not void, but is only

64

SUPREME COURT.
Erwin's Lessee v. Dundas et al.

voidable, and if not avoided before the sale, the purchaser takes the
title. The question has been repeatedly so decided. Speer v.
Sample, 4 Watts's Rep. 367 ; Collingsworth v. Horn, 4 Stewart
& Porter, 237; Mills v. Williams, 2 Stewart & Porter, 390;
Preston v. Surgoine, Peck's Tenn. Rep. 72; Drake v. Collins,
5 Howard's Mississippi Reports; Opinion of Chancellor Kent, in
Jackson v. DeLancy, 13 Johns. Rep. 537 ; andthe principle seems
to be recognized in the case of
v.
, 13 Peters,
15, 16. The court, in the case of Speer v. Sample, 4-Watts's
Rep. 367, reviewed all the English and American cases upon the
subject. The opinion there delivered is not only a masterly exposition of the law, but is, as I think, unanswerable. All the objections that have been urged against the validity of such a sale are
there met.and conclusively refuted. The argument of the court is
supported by the authorities referred to in the opinion so fully, that
the point ,decided seems to be demonstrated.
The case of Collingsworth v. Horn, decided by the Supreme
Court of Alabama, 4 Stewart's Rep., although a case of personal
property, in principle decides this question. The court there decide, that in regard to personalty, the delivery of the execution
creates the lien, and that 4if an execution is issued in theJifetime of
the party, the lien is created, and the property thus bound may be
sold under a subsequent execution, without revival against the executors, provided the executions have been regularly and successively issued, so as to continue the lien upon the property. In that
case, the execution under which the property was sold issued and was
tested after the death of the judgment debtor, but the sale under it
related to the lien acquired by the first execution; henc.., there was
no necessity to issue a scirefacias. If the judgment creates the lien,
and if a sale made under it relates to the judgment, as it unquestionably
does, the principle which .was asserted in Collingsworth v. Horn
must necessarily and inevitably apply; and if, in the one case, there
wak no necessity for a scire facias, or if the execution without it
was only.voidable, there cannot be, upon principle, any reason why
it should be required in the other.
I am aware there are a few cases which hold the contrary doctrine, and decide that the sale is utterly void. Some of'these cases
will be found, upon examination, to be based upon statutory provisions ; others profess to be founded on the principles, of the com.mon law, which principles, however, I will respectfully attempt to
show, were misapplied by the judges who decided those cases.
The cases relied on, as establishing the position that the sale in
this case is void, are Woodcock v. Bennett, 1 Cowen's Rep.
711 ; 9 Wendell, 452; 10 Wendell, 211; 1 Yerger's Rep. 40;
10 Yerger's Rep. 320; 16 Mass. Rep. 191 ; 20 Johns. Rep.
106 ; Taylor's North Carolina Reports, 261.
The cases in 9 and 10 Wendell are founded upon the authority

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

65

Erwin's Lessee v. Dundas et al.

of Woodcock v. Bennett, I Cowen. The latter case settled the
law in New York, and the subsequent decisions were governed by
its authority. If the case in I Cowen cannot be sustained, it must
fall, and consequently those which are founded on it must fall
with it.
The case of Woodcock v. Bennett contains all the supposed
principles of the common law relied on to sustain the position that
the sale in this case is void ; hence, if it cannot be supported,
neithbr of the other oases can be.
In that case, a judgment was rendered against two persons;
after the dqath of one of them, an execution was issued and was
levied on the lands of both, and the lands of both were sold. The
court decided that the judgment was a charge on the realty and
did not survive, as it would have done if the -execution had been
against the personalty, and they decide, as the execution issued
against and was levied on the land of the deceased after his death
without revival, the sale was void.
The court, in the outset, assume the position that the execution
was void because it issued after his death. They say (see page
733), "1The question here will be.whether the execution was not
necessarily void at the time it issued, inasmuch as it directs a sale
of a defendant's property who was not then in existende, without
first calling on the representatives to whom tht property, if he had
qny, must have passed, and who, being strangers to both judgment
and execution, had no day in court, to show that the process.was
either void or voidable."
The principle assumed here is, that an execution which issues
after the death of a party is void, because it directs the property
of a dead man to be sold, and because the, representatives ought
to have a day in court to contest it. I think this is not so, where
either the execution or the judgment binds the property.in the
hands of the heir or executor. In extenso, it overturns a series of
adjudged cases, from the time of Lord Coke to this time. By the
common law, personal property is bound by the test of the execution, and it is settled that an execution which issues after a man's
death, but tested before, may be executed and the property sold
without making the personal r~presentatives parties. See Fleetwood's case, 8 Coke's Rep. 171 ; Audley v. Halsey, ,Cro. Car.
148 ; 4 Watts, 369, and au'thorities cited. The ground upon which
these cases were decided was, that the goods were bound, and the
sheriff had a right to seize them in the hands of a purchaser or administrator ; and yet, the reason given by the court, in the case in
Cowen, -to
wit; "that it issued after his death, without revival
against the representatives, and directs the sale of a defendant's
property who was not then in existence,"-- would equally apply,
and defeat this execution. Why does it not defeat it ? Because
the property was bound by it before the death, and the death
VOL. IV.

9

Y*

66

SUPREME COURT.
Erwin's Lessee v. Dundas et al.

therefore cannot be noticed ; a fortiori, if the real property is
bound by the judgment before his death, it may be sold, although
the execution issued afterwards.
Again, the court says (same page),-" The general rule is, that,
'where any new person is to be better or worse by the execution,
there must be a scirefacias." Altlough this is a general rule, it
does not apply where the property in the hands of the new person
is bound, either by the judgment or the execution. If a judgment
debtor aliens the property bound by the judgment or the execution,
must his alienee be made a party by sire facias? Surely not.
Yet he is a new person, and his interest is affected by the execution. Why is it not necessary ? Because the judgment bound
the property. So, where an execution is tested before the death,
but issued afterwards, the executor is a new party ; be is affected
by the execution, yet it need not be revived against him, because
the property in his hands is bound by a lien which existed prior to
the death of his testator. The truth is, new parties are only required'to be proceeded against where neither the judgment nor the
execution binds the property in their hands, but which property
nevertheless must be appropriated to the payment of the judgment
or execution. For instance, assets in the hands of an executor
must be appropriated to pay the testator's debts. If there is a
judgment, but no execution issued and tested in the lifetime of the
testator, the goods are not bound ; a sale by the-executor would
pass the title ; in such cases a scirefaciasis necessary to have execution of the judgment. Not so where the execution is tested in
the lifetime of the testator; there the goods are bound without
any direct proceeding against the executor.
But, it is again said, the scire facias is necessary, because the
new party may show the judgment had been paid or released, or
satisfied. The same reason would apply where execution issued
after the death, but was tested before. The judgment in the latter
case might have been paid, as well as in the former. If the judgment has been paid, the remedy in such case for the executor or
heir is to supersede the execution and stop the sale; yet, if this
was not done, the sale itself would be absolutely void, even as to a
bonO fide purchaser, because, the judgnient being paid, the sheriff
had no authority to sell. 2 Hill's Rep. 566 ; Wood v. Colvin,
and cases cited in page 567.
In.cases where a sciie facias is necessary, if it does not issue,
the execution is only erroneous. It is as necessary to issue a
sc. fa. if there has been no execution issued within a year, as
where the party has died. Yet if it does issue without a sci. fa.,
it is not void, but voidable.
The court, 1 Cowen, 739, says, the reason of this is, that in the
former case there is a party alive who can avoid it, - in the latter
case there is not; and say the court in the former case, the law

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

(W

Erwin's Lessee v. Dundas et al.

permits the plaintiff to issue it, subject to he defeated on the application of the defendant, but in the latter case the act, of issuig
the execution is not warranted by law.
The court here take for granted the very thing in dispute. It
is as much against law to issue an execution without a sci. fa.,
after the year and day, as it is to issue it after the death of the
party. In both cases, the execution may be avoided; in the first
case by the party himself, -in the latter, if levied on the goods,
by the executor, or on the land, by the heir -or his guardian, or by
the terre-tenant. The levy in both cases notifies them of the proceeding. The court is mistaken, I apprehend, in supposing there
is a party to avoid in the first case and not in the last. For surely the executor, heir, Lnd terre-tenant are privies in law and may
avoid it. The distinction taken by the, court- is therefore unsound.
The court cite 2 Saunders, 6, N. 1, and advert to many cases
to show that, where heirs or terre-tenants are proceeded against,
scirefacia is necessary. But these cases do not decide that the
execution is void, if issued without it, for the question arose upon
writs of error, or motions to quash. The books also say, a sci.
fa. is necessary where no execution has issued within a year from
the rendition of the judgment, yet if it does issue, they also.say it
is only erroneous, not void. In all or nearly all the cases cited
by the court, where it is said a sci. fa. may or must issue, the
question was not whether it was void, if the execution did issue
without it, but merely whether the process should be avoided or
set aside.
The court cite the bill of rights of New York, "1that no person
shall be put out of his freehold or lose his goods, unless he be
brought to inswer," &c. &c. And they think this provision requires in all instances a sci. fa.
This might be true, if the goods or lands belonged abs6lutely to
the assignee or representative of the judgment debtor, but as they
take the land or goods subject to the judgment lien, which lien
takes effect not from the sale, but frbm the rendition of the judgment, the goods never were in contemplation of law, after the sa!3,
their goods or lands. The same argument would defeat a sale of
land or goods actually levied on before the parties' death, but not
sold ; so it would compel a sci. fa. to issue if the judgment debtor
sold the land after the rendition of the judgment, but before a sale
under it, for the land is as much the - property of the alienee, in
such case, as it is of the heir, after the ancestor's death.
The court then proceed to show that the New York act, which
gives a remedy to ,the purchaser of lands who is evicted on account of irregularit , &c., in the judgment, sustains the view previously taken by the court. This it is not necessary to examine.
This case, from 1 Cowen, was cited upon the argument of the

68

SUPREME COURT.
Erwin's Lessee v. Dundas et al.

case in 4 Watts's Rep. 367, and I think the opinion of the court
in that case is a complete answer to it.
The case relied upon, from 20 Johns. Rep. 106, presented
merely the question whether it was erroneous to proceed by ad.
fa. against some of the terre-tenants, without joining all. The
court decided it was necessary, to proceed against all. It was the
case of a writ of error prosecuted by some of the defendants, and"
the observations of the .court only apply to the case before them.
The case simply decides it to be erroneous. The question,
whether, if a sale had been made without scirefacias, it would be
void, was not raised by the record.
The cases in 9 and 10'Wendell follow the authority in 1
Cowen, and such no doubt is now the law of New York, but
these decisions, as I have stown, not being founded on principle,
and being.partly founded on a statute of New York, are no controlling authority for other courts.
The cases cited from Tennessee and North Carolina have no
application. The lien of the judgment obtained against the ancestor, in both those States, is qualified by the act of 1784, or by
the construction put on it by the courts. It is held, under this
act, that the lien of the judgment, or rather the judgment itself,
cannot bd enforced after the death of the ancestor, until the personal estate is proceeded against and the plea offully administered
found in favor of the personal representative. Boyd v. Armstrong's Heirs, 1 Yerger, 40; Gilmer v. Tisdale, 1 Yerger, 285;
Peck v. Wheaton, M. & Yerger's Rep. 353.
The case of Boyd v. Armstrong's Heirs admits, if the sale
pass
the right before the death of the ancestor, it would be
V Judge Haywood dissented in that cage, notwithstanding
the act of 1784. And afterwards, in the case of Preston v. Surgoine, in. Peck's Reports, the court decided (Judge White dissenting), that if au execution issued after the death of the ancestor,
but within a yepr from the rendition of the judgment, the lands
were bound and might be sold, without a sci. fa. against the heirs.
In the, case of Overton v. Perkins, .10 Yerger's Rep. 328, tho
execution did not issue for several years after the judgment. The
land, in tie mean timq, had been sold by the judgment debtor, in
his lifetime, to Perkins, and by the Tennessee act of A799, the
lien of the judgment, as to purchasers, only exists for a year.
The case from Taylor's North Carolina Reports seems not to
have been examined, and in North Carolina it has been decided
(see 2 Murphy, 45), that if afi. fa. is issued, instead of an elegit,
the lands are only bound as goods and chattels are bound by the
common law.
I The case cited.from 16 Mass. was decided upon the principle, that, in Massachusetts, an extent or sale did not relate by fiction to the time of the judgment.

JANUARY TERM

18'46.

69

Erwin's Lessee v. Dundas et al.

In the case cited by me from 13 Peters, the party died after
a decree ordering the land to be sold, but before sale. The sale
was made without revival, and it was held to be valid. This
case, and those previously cited by me, completely overturn the
reasoning of the court in 16 Mass. Rep. 191, and the other cases
relied on.
I conclude, therefore, as the judgment was rendered aganst
Judge Hitchcock by the Supreme Court of Alabama, in June,
1838, and as the mortgage to Cowperthwaite and others was made
in July, 1838,'the sale under the judgment vested the title in the
lessor of the plaintiff, and he is entitled to recover.
The next question is, whether the injunction obtained by Judge
Hitchcock, which was afterwards dissolved, destroyed the lien.
It is a general principle' that a lien one created continues until
actual payment, unless forfeited by some act of the party in whose
favor it is created. Rankin v. Scott, 12 Wheaton's Rep. 177 '
Darrington v. Borland, 3 Porter's Rep. 35 ; Overton v. Perkins,
Martin & Yerger's Rep. 367.
An act which merely suspends proceedings on a judgment does
nbt 'destroy the lien of the judgment. Tayloe v. Thomson, 5
Peters's Rep. 358.
It seems to bla settled rule, that the act of the opposite party,
or the act of the law, shall never affect the right of a third person.
5 Co. Rep. 87; 1 Co. Rep. 102, a, 105, b, 105, b; Lusk v.
Ramsey, 3 Mumford's Rep. 417 ; 18 Johns. Rep, 311, 363.
The rights of the plaintiff at law, after a dissolution of the, injunction, stond upon the same' ground they did when it issued.
Martin and .Yerger's Rep. 373, and cases cited by Judge Catron,
in delivering the opinion of the court in that case. See also the
argument of Judge Haywood, I Haywood's Rep. 60, 61, 62.
The precise point was ably investigated and decided by Judge
Catron in Overton v. Perkins, Martin & Yerger's Rep. 370.
The case cited by the defendants in error, from 1 Miner's
Alabama Reports, was not a decision of the court; it was a m,.
dictum. Besides, it was a case of personal property, which- t
not bound by the judgment, but was only- bound from delive.)
1f the execution to the sheriff. It may be that, on account of tl}t
perishable nature of personal property, the lien may be destroyE t
bthe injunction. In the case of land, it is the judgment whie'.binds and creates thb lien in Alabama,, and in such case the injunc.tion suspends, but cannot destroy, the lien. See 3 Porter's Rep. 36.
The case of Wimston V. Rives, 4 Stewart & Porter, 269, is also,
cited to show that the lien is destroyed. This case does not decide
the point. The judge, arguendo, takes it for granted that the law is
so. It was also a case where personal property was levied on.
The case in fact only decides that a-second writ of error bond
discharged the sureties in the first, because they, as sureties, were

70

SUPREME COURT.
Erwin's Lessee

v. Dundas et a.L

prevented by the suereedeas from asserting a right the law gave
them, to wit, to have the judgment against their principal executed.
The sureties might for this have been discharged, and the lien of
the judgment remain unimpaired as to the principal.
The law is settled, that a judgment lien, which is a. mere security
of record for the debt, is not merged or extinguished by another
security which is not of a higher character. A judgment founded
on a j.dgment does not extinguish the first judgment. If a judgment were obtained on the injunction bond, it would not extinguish
the original judgment. Andrews v. Smith, 9 Wendell, 53 ; Jackson v. Shaffer, 11 Johns. Rep. 513; Tayloe v. Thomson, 5
Peters, 358.
But what is the ground of the dictum in the case in 3 Porter, 145,
and 4 Stewart & Porter, 260 ? It is that the injunction bond is
given to pay and satisfy the debt or judgment according to law.
If there is no bond, or it is a forgery, or if it is conditioned for the
payment of costs and damagds only, and not for the payment of the
judgment, or if the injunction issues without a bond, then and in
either of- these cases the lien of the judgment is not discharged,
even if the law should be as stated by the judge in these cases,
because he has not got the substitute for the lien, to wit, a bond
and security to pay his judgment. The condition of the injunction
bond executed in this case by Judge Hitchcock and his surety is
only to pay the damages, &c., not the judgment; consequently,
according to these cases, the lien is not discharged.
The levy of the execution on the land of James, the surety of
Judge Hitchcock in the writ of error, does not affect the lien of the
judgment, because the levy, being on real estate, was no satisfaction of the judgment. Hogshead v. Carruth, 5 Yerger's Rep. 227;
Shepperct v. Rowe, 14 Wendell, 260. And because, if the principal
had property, it was the duty of the sheriff to abandon that levy, and
lovy-on the property of the principal. Aildn's Digest, 164. The
surety, in fact, could have stopped the sale, or, if the land was sold
to satisfy the judgment, he still could, according to the Alabama
law, have issued an execution on the judgment for his own benefit,
and sold the property of the principal. 3 Stewart & Porter, 345 ;
4 ibid. 277. Moreover, the injunction prevented it from being sold,
and after the injunction was dissolved, it was the duty of the sheriff
to levy on the property of the principal.
For the above reasons, and upon the abeve authorities, it is confidently believed the judgment of the cour above ought to be reversed.
Jflr.
with hi
The
was er

Crittenden, afte.r reading the-above argument, pruceeded
own.
question is, as to the validity of the sheriff's sale. If it
neous, it can only be set aside upon a direct motion to that

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

71

Erwinis Lessee v. Dundas et at.

effect, and not tried in a collateral action. Was it void, convey ng
no title whatever ? The authorities show, that if execution issues
after a year and a day, it is only voidable. What essential differ
ence is there between that case and where it issues after death ?
In neither are the parties precluded from showing payment. It is
said that injustice may be done ; but how can a loss by forced sales
occur any more when execution issues after the death of a defendant than when it issues after a year and a day? Sufficient
notice is given in both cases by the sheriff's going upon the property,
taking possession, and advertising. Is hardship a sufficient reason
for setting aside a legal process ? Must the law -guard against possibilities, and is not an injury done to creditors by annulling the
sale ? Are sales, fairly made, to be declared null and void, upon
the bare suspicion that a wrong may be done? When a lien is
created by the judgment, it is as if public proclamation were made
that the property is bound by that judgment. If so, to pursue it
after the death of the defendant is only to adopt the analogous
practic. of a court of chancery,and consider it a proceedifig in rem.
This court -has gone further than any other in giving effect to sales
made under judicial authority. When a judge has declared what
shall be done, ought not courts to enforce it ? Bidders are encouraged to purchase at sales thus made, and the principle promotes
the public benefit. A purchaser ought not to be bound to know
whether a party is dead or noL, It is an extrinsic fact. The
sheriff may not know it himself; the party may have gone -abroad.
If the question were a new one, no good reason can be given why
the law should be so. The heirs of .the party have not come forward to set the execution aside, but the question has arisen in a
collateral action. Injustice must certainly be done by deciding in
one way, and in the other there exists a possibility of its happening
in some manner which is untold and uncomplained-of. The case
of Speer v. Sample, 4 Watts, 367, is directly in point, and so is
that of Collingsworth v. Horn, 4 Stewart & Porter, 237.
But it is said by the other side, that the lien of the judgment was
destroyed by the injunction bond. On the dissolution of an injunction, the party stands exactly where he did before it was issued.
Supposing the bond to be perfectly good, yet is there great delay
in suing upon it, and in this case it is only to cover damages.
An injunction does not annul a judgment, but only restrains a
party from proceeding. It is only a supersedeas, a temporary suspension of the rights of the party. 1 Martin & Yerger, 367.
31r. Clement Cox, for defendants in error.
The points raised in the first bill of exceptions, relating to the
admission of the present parties to the suit, have not been argued
by the learned counsel, and are therefore pr sumed to' be abandoned. (JdLr. Crittenden remarked, that lie did not formally abandon

el2

SUPREME COURT.
Erwin's Lessee v. Dundas et al.

the points, but did notargue them.) .Mr. Cox said, -in such case,
he would not argue them either.
The remaining point in the case was this. That the sheriff's
sale, under which the plaintiff claimed, and the deed from the
sheriff, and the writs and proceedings upon which they were founded,
were irregular and void, and conveyed no title, and the plaintiff
was not entitled to recover in the action.,
The sheriff's sale was void for two reasons.
1st. The injunction bond destroyed the lien of the judgment.
2d. The execution was wrongfully issued without a previoua scire
faeias.
1. The record shows how the injunction was granted and bond
given. We have a right to presume that they followed, the statute.
There were three judgments against Hitchcock, one in tho court
below, one in the Supreme Court, and one in chancery; snd two
judgments against his sureties ; namely, one against Janms and one
.against Crawford. All five of these were alive at once, according
to the doctrine contended for by the other side. But it is against
the policy of the liw to countenance multiplied securities for a
single-debt. The law does not favor dormant liens, which tie up
property. These are the principles of the common law and of the
statutes of Alabama. The legislature and courts of that Staie
have adopted them. A. lien of a judgment upon lands arises from
the Statute of Westminster 2d, giving an degit.
1 Brock, 170, establishes that .where there.is a senior jutgment with a stay and a junior judgment without a stay, the latter is
.preferred. See also 2 Brock, 252; 4 Peters,' 124 ; 3 Alab.
•oRep. 560 ; 4 Alab.,Rep. 735-739.
This. policy runs through many of the laws of Alabama. Thus,
where a senior creditor has the debtor in execution under a ca. sa.,
the debtor may dispose of his property to a junior creditor, and
this without the ca, sa. superseding the lien. Aikin's Digest, 159,
160.
. Also, if there be doubt in the mind of the sheriff, he may require
.a bond of indemnity. If a junior creditor gives such a bond, and
the senior creditor refuses, the sheriff may legally sell and satisfy
the junior crleditor. Aikin's Digest, 166, 167.
So, where.a senior creditor lays by for a long time, the junior
creditor may enforce his lien. 4 Alab. Rep. 543, 750; 1 Hayw-od, 72.
So, a junior creditor is preferred if he sells before a senior,
although the latter takes out a series of executions. Aikin's Dig.
156, and a corresponding principle at 162. A lien of an execution was held to be destroyed by an injunction. Miner's Alab.
Rep, 373.
Where there is a series ot appeals, each one acts as a merger of
the preceding ones. 4 Stewart & Porter, 269.

JANUARY

TER1M

1846.

78

Erwvin's, Lezoee v. Dundas et aL.

The sureties in an appeal bond are diseharged by, new sureties
being given in a higher court. 4 Stewart & Porter, 275 ; 3 Porter, 138, 153; Wiswell v. Monroe, 4 Alab. Rep. 9 ; 4 Alab.
Rep. 543, 735.
2. The execution was wrongfully issued.
Erroneous executions aie voidable where there is a party in
court to avoid them ; but where there is no such party, they are
void. There are numerous authorities for this. Fitzherbert, N.
B. 267, 597, where an elegit was said to be void, when issued after
the death of the party, without- a sci. fa. ; Orlando Bridgman's
Rep. 464 ; 7 Bac. Abr. 138, tit. Scire Facias,-C, 4 ; 1 Salkeld,
319 ; 2 Ld. Raym. 768 ; 2 Saunders, 6, note 1 ; 6 T. R. 368 ;
Bingham on Ex. 121; Chitty's General Practice, 522. American
decisions: I Cowen, 711, 739; 10 Wend. 206 ; 20 Johns. 156;
16 Mass. Rep. 191, 193; 10 Yerger, 328; 1 Yerger, 40.
Personal estate is held to be the fund first applicable to debts,
and real estate is only to be reached in the mode therein pointed
out. Aikin's Dig. 151, 154, 156; Clay's Digest, 191.
The case in 4 Stewart & Porter, 237, has been cited on the
other side, in which it is said that such an execution is 6nly voidable. But it is in obiter dictum, and relies on 13 Johnson, which
has been overruled by the dases in Cowen and Wendell ; and even
the case in 4 Stewart & Porter says, at page 249, that it would be
different if third parties were involved. 4 Comyn's Dig. 250, tit.
Execution, F ; 3 Alab. Rep. 254.
Mr. Sergeant, on the same side.
This is a question to be settled by authority. .What is the law
of Alabama on the subjectf? Many cases have been cited, b1ut the
latest of all has not, namely, 6 Alab. Rep. 657. The 'case in.4"
Watts was decided upon principles peculiar to Pennsylvania law.
(Mr. S. here commented upon this case.) But what is the law
of Alabama? The case in 4 Alab. Rep. 735, was decided in
January, 1843, and the present case was tried in the Circuit Court
in the foll~wing March.- The same counsel who were employed
in the case in 4 Alab. Rep. were engaged in this one, and even
the title was the same in both, for it was Erwin's title, though
in another form. The subject of controversy-was this very title,
and all the cases were quoted.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to see how the -court could have
decided as they did without deciding the precise point that the lien
of the judgment was destroyed. It is a strictly local law. The
judge who tried this cise in the court below had before him, in
manuscript, the decision of the highest court in the State, and it
was, in effect, an appeal from that court to the Circuit Court of
the United States. The defect in the argum6nt of Mr. Yerger is,
that it does not inquire what the law of Alabama actually is, but what
VOL. IV.

10

G

74

SUPREME COURT.
Erwin's Lessee i. Dundas et al.

it ought to be accordiig to the principles of the common law.
We need not follow the distinction between a levy upon real and
personal property, although it is obvious. When a levy is made
on personal property, the sheriff becomes the owner, and it is hard
to say when he may not sell it: But in land, he acquires no ownership.
Was the execution wrongfully issued ? The general rule of
law is, that there must be two parties. In I Howard, 282, 286,
this court said that an execution was void which had been issued
under a decree. XThat case came up from Alabama, and the decision was, therefore, upon the law of Alabama. Why should
a sheriff sell the property of a dead man without giving notice to
those concerned ? What a chance for roguery and fraud ? It is
said on the other side that the execution is only voidable. But
who is to avoid it ?
.Mr Crittenden, for plaintiff in error, in reply.
We insist that the execution is not void, but only voidable. It
is admitted that the judgment was a lien. Some cases say that
where an execution is begun, and then the party dies, the execution goes on ; that the. property is in the custody of the law.
That is reasonable doctrine, and. avoids litigation. A sci. fa. is
often more troublesome than the original suit. It is possible that
some new defence may be drawn forth. But is the possibility of
thi4 to overbalance certain wrong on the -other s;de? No good
reason can be given for the distinction between real and personal
property; and yet it is admitted that a sale of personal property
would be good. Such distinctions, without reason, are discreditable to law and to science. The law of Alabama makes real estate responsible for dzbts equally with chattels. The case of
Collingsworth v. Horn covers all the ground of this case, and has
not been overturned. In 4 Alab. Rep. 752, the court say tley
" are willing to leave it open to be settled when it shall arise,"
and yet in 6 Alab., the court say that the preceding case settles
the point. They seem to have overlooked the fact that in 4 Alab.
the court were willing to leave it open. Is this court precluded,
in such a state of things, from examining a question upon which
there has been such vibration. In all the cases, the point is made
to rest upon the common law, and not upon the statutes of Alabama.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The first execution issued upon the judgment, in this case, was
issued on the 18th of August, 1838, during the lifetime of both the
defendants, and was therefore regular and valid ; but, according to
the return of the sheriff, a levy was made only upon the property
of James, the surety, and was abandoned when the proceedings at
law were enjoined by the bill in chancery. We may, therefore,

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

75

Erwin's Lessee v. Dundas et al.

lay this execution out of the case. For, although, according to
the law of Alabama, when an execution has been issued during the
lifetime of a defendant, but not executed, an alias or pluries may
go after his death, and the personal estate of the deceased be levied
on and sold to satisfy the judgment, for the reason that the lien, thus
regularly acquired under the first, is continued by the succeeding
writs, down to the time of the sale ; yet it appears to be well setfled there, that the practice has no application to the enforcement
of executions against the real estate of the deceased. Lucas v.
Doe, ex dem. Price, 4 Alab. R. 679-, N. S. ; A[asony et al. v.
The U. S. Bank, ib. 735 ; and Abercrombie v. Hall, 6 ib. 657.
The validity of the plaintiff's title, therefore, must depend altogether upon the execution issued on the 10th of July, 1840,
nearly one year after the death of Hitchcock, under and by virtue
of which the premises in question were sold and conveyed to him.
At common law, the writ of fieri facias had relation to its teste,
though in fact issued subsequently, and bound the goods of the
defendant from that date. The act of 29 Car. II. (regnacted in
most of the States) took away this relation as respected the rights
of bona fide purchasers, and confined its binding effect upon the
goods as to them to the time of the delivery of the writ to the
'sheriff; but as between the parties, it remained as it stood at
common law.
One consequence of this relation has been, that it we execution
can be regularly tested in the lifetime of a deceased defendant, it
may be taken out and executed against his goods and chattels after
his death, the same as if that event had not intervened.
The theory or fiction upon which this result is arived at is, that
the execution is taken in judgment of law to have been issued at,
the time it bears date, however the fact may have been, and that being prior to the death of the defendant, and the goods being. bound
from *he teste, or presumed issuing, execution upon them is deemed
to ha,e commenced in the lifetime of the party, and being an entire
thing, may be completed notwithstanding his death.
It is regarded in the same light as if delivered into the hands of
the sheriff and the pods bound in the lifetime of the defendant,
for the reason the officer being entitled to .seize them at any time
after the teste, the death of the party could not alter the right ; and
therefore, though the execution came to the sheriff after, still if tested before, his death, the goods may be seized, in whose hands soever
they may be found.
In illustration of the extent to which this doctrine of relation is
carried, we may add, it has been frequently held, that, if a judgment is entered in vacation against a defendant who died the
preceding term, an execution tested on a day in the said term
prior to the defendant's death may be sued out without a
scire facias; for, as the judgment signed in vacation relates

76

SUPRZME COURT.
Erwin's Lessee

v. Dundas et al.

to and is considered as a judgment of the first day of the preceding term, and as the execution relates to the judgment, it may, in
point of form, be considered as having commenced before .the death
of the defendant, on account of the date or teste, and, of course,
upon the ground above stated, being an entire thing, he completed
afterwards.
There are numerous authorities establishing this view of the case
in respect to the enforcement of judgments' and executions against
the goods or other personal estate of the defendant. GlIb. on Ex.
14, 15 ; Bing. on Ex. 135, 136, 19Q ; 2 Tidd's Pr. 1000,,9th
Lond. ed. ; 7"T. R. 24 ; 6 ibid. 368.
This doctrine of relation is resorted to with a view of meeting
and avoiding the objection, which might otherwise be alleged, that
the rights of new parties, to wit, the personal representatives of the
deceased, would be affected by the issuing and enforcement of the
writ upon the goods after the death of the defendant, who should
be called in and made parties to the record for the purpose of enabling them to interpose a defence, if any, to the judgment. For,
upon the construction given, the writ is regarded as having been
issued in the lifetime of the defendant himself, and, inasmuch as
he had not taken any steps to arrest it before his death, no good
reason -could be 'given for the interposition of his representatives.
They, upon the view taken, were not new parties, nor parties at all
to-the proceedings, as the last step in the appropriation of the oods
to the satisfaction of the judgment had been taken in the lietime
of their intestate.
The same doctrine, it seems, has been held to be equally applicable to executions against the lands and tenements of a deceased defendant, and therefore an ele~it bearing, teste before may be issued after his death, for the reasons given in the case of executions
against the goods and chattels. 2 Tidd's Pr. 1034, 9th Lond. ed.
It is otherwise as respects the writ of extent issued against the
king's debtor ; for, as that cannot be antedated, but must bear
teste on the day it issues, it can only be issued against the lands
and goods in the lifetime of the defendant. Another writ issues
in case of his death to the sheriff to inquire into the special circumstances- before execution is enforced. 2 Tidd's Pr. 1049,
1053, 1057.
This series of cases, coming down from the earliest history of the
law on the subject, and the reasons assigned in support of them,
hecessarily lead to the resdt, - and which has also been confirmed
by express decision in all courts where the authority of the common law prevails, - that an execution issued and bearing teste after the death of the defendant is irregular and void, and cannot be
enforced either against the real or personal property of the
defendant, until the judgment is revived against the heirs or
devisees in the one case, or personal representatives in the other.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

77

Erwin's Lessee v. Pundas et al.

Fitz. N. B. 266 ; Harwood v. Phillips, 0. Bridgman's R. 473;
Dyer's R. 766; Pl. 31 ; 2 Wins. Saund. 6, n. 1 ; 2 Ld. Raym.
849 ; Archb. Pr. 282 ; 2 ib. 88 ; Woodcock v. Bennett, r Cow.
711 ; 10 Wend. 212 ; Hildreth v. Thompson, 16 Mass. 191.
Mr. Williams, in his note to the case of Jeffersbn v. Morton, 2
Wins. Saund. 6, n. 1, says, that, if the defendant dies within the
year, the plaintiff canfiot have an elegit under the Statute of Westin.
2 against his lands in the hands of his heirs or terre-tenants, or generally any other execution, without a scire facias against his heirs
and terre-tenants, or personal representatives, although he may in
some cases have afieri facias against his goods in the hands of the
executors, referring to the exception to the general rule, when issued
in the lifetime of the defendant. So, if the conusee dies within the
year, his executor cannot have an elegit at common law without a
8cirefacia., nor, if thb conusor dies within that time, can the conasee have an'elegit against his heir or terre-tehant without such writ.
The rule being, he says, that where a new person who was not a
party to the judgment or recognizance derives a benefit or becomes
chargeable to the execution, there must be a scire facias to make
him a party to the judgment or recognizance. Penoyer v. Brace,
1 Ld. Rtym. 245 ; S. C., 1 Salk. 319, 320 ; S.C., Carth. 404.
Such is, we apprehend, the settled law of the case, where the
judgment is against one defendant, and the execution issued and
tested after his death.
In the case before us, the judgment upon which the execution
was issued and the lands sold had been rendered against two de:fendants, one of whom was living at the time, but the lands sold
belonged to the estate.of the deceased
And it' is material to inquire, whether, in this aspect of the case, a different rule can be
applied to the sale.
,At common law, a judgment or recognizance in the nature of a
judgment did not bind the lands of the defendant, nor did the execution disturb the possession, as it went onlyagainst the goods and
chattels. The Statute of Westm. 2, ch. 18 (13 Ed. I.), first subjected the lands of the debtor to execution on a judgment recovered against him, and gave the plaintiff the writ of elegit by virtue'of:
which the sheriff seized and delivered a moiety of the lands until
the debt was levied out of the rents and profits. Under this statute, a moiety of the land is deemed bound from the rendition of
the judgment. 2 Bac. Abr., tit. Execution, 685; 3 Bl,"nm. 418:
3 Co. 12; The People v. Haskins, 7 Wend. 466.
Before the statute, a judgment was considered a charge ofily
upon the personal estate of the defendant; sincei a charge upon both
the real and personal estate.
Before and since the statute, in case of a judgment against two
defendants, and the death of one, & charge of the judgment survived against the personal estate of the .survivor; and execution

'78

SUPREME

COURT.

Erwin's Lessee v. Dundas et al.

-

could be taken out against him within the year without a scire fa-cias, and the debt levied. 2 Tidd, 1120 ; 1 Salk. 320 ; Bing. on
Ex. 136; Norton v. Lady Harvey, 2 Wins. Saund. 50, 51, n.
4, and 72, n. 3; 16 Mass. 193, n. 2 ; 1 Cow. 738.
The writ, however, must be in form against both, to correspond
with the record, but it could be executed against the goods of the
survivor only ; or, on making a suggestion of the death upon the
record, the writ could be against the survivor alone. (Ibid.)
And if the judgment against both defendants is founded upon contract, the surviving defendant is entitled to contribution out of the
estate of the deceased (Bing. on Ex. 137, and cases cited); if upon
tort, it would be otherwise.
-But since thd statute, if the plaintiff seeks to enforce the judgment
against the real e~tate of the defendants in the case put, he must revive it by scirefacias against the surviving defendant, and the heirs,
devisees, and terre-tenants of the deceased, before execution can regularly issue. For, as to the real estate of the defendants, the charge
of the judgment does not survive; and the execution must go
against the lands of both; and as it cannot be regularly issued
against the deceased codefendant, nor be allowed to charge the estate in the hands of his heirs, devisees, or terre-tenants, until they have
notice, -and an opportunity to set up a defence, if any, to the judgment, a scire facias is indispensable to the regularity of the execution. 2 Wins. Saund. 51, n. 4; Bing. on Ex. 137, and cases citqd; 4Mod. 316; 2Co. 14,a; 1 Ld. Raym. 244; S. C.,I
Salk. 320 ; S. C., Carth. 404 ; 16 Mass. 193, n. ; I Cow. 711.
It will be seen, therefore, upon these authorities, that the same objections exist, both in principle and in reason, as it respects the enforcement of a judgment against two by a sale of the real estate on
execution after the death of one, which have been shown to exist
against the enforcement of a judgment against a single defendant after his death. For as the charge of the judgment against the lands
'-does not survive, but continues upon the lands of both after the
death of one, the same as before, and cannot be enforced against
the real estate of the survivor alone, as in the case of the personalty, and the execution must therefore be issued against both if issued at all, it is obvious the, lands of the deceased, in that event,
are as liable to be sold by the sheriff as the lands of the survivor.
The rights of the heirs and devisees, and the reasons for protecting
them by the scire facias, are the same in the one case as in the other ; and when the law disables the plaintiff from suing out execution against the real estate on a judgment against one defendant after his death, it must eqeally disable him from suing it out on
a judgment against two, after the death of one. Otherwise, in both
cases, the inte est of new parties, upon whom the estate has fallen,
or to whom it may have passed, is liable to be suddenly and without
notice divested by the silent, and till then dormant, power of the

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

79

Erwifi's Lessee v. Dundas et al.

law ; parties, too, who from their age and situation in life will not
unfrequently be the least qualified to understahd and protect these
interests, being the children of the deceased defendant.
This writ of scire facias is al~o made necessary in order to secure the judgment in cases where the plaintiff has neglected to take
out execution within the year. And yet it has always been held,
that, if taken out after the year, the sale under it is valid, and the.
tide of the purchaser protected. The execution is not void, but
voidable, and maybe regularly. enforced unless set aside on motion.
In analogy to this course of decision, it has been argued that an
execution issue(' after the death of the party should not be considered void, and tnie sale under it a nullity, and that the only remedy
should be on a motion to set it aside.
Before the Statute Westni. 2, already referred to (ch. 45), if
the plaintiff had neglected to take out execution within the year,
his only remedy was an action of debt on the judgment. The law
presumed it had been satisfied, and therefore drove the plaintiff to
a new original. 2 Tidd, t 102 ; 1 Bing. on Ex. 123, n. This statute extended to him the writ of scire facias, by means of which
the judgment cold be enforced after the year by execution, and as
the writ could thus be issued after the year by a scire facias, the
judges held, if issued without, and the defendant did not interpose
and set it aside, it was an implied admission that the judgment was
unsatisfied and existed in full force. The issuing, under the circumstances, was regarded simply as an irregularity which'it was
competent for the party defendant to waive.
It is apparent that the, analogy between this class of cases and
the one under consideration is exceedingly remote and feeble, and
that they stand upon different and distinct grounds, and the conclusions arrived at upon substanitially different and distinct -considerations.
, Another ground has been urged in support of the sale in this case
which deserves notice.
It. has been argued that the grantees of lands sold on a judgment
against the grantor, or previous owner, through whom the title was
derived, where the sale confessedly would be valid, stand upon the
same footing as the heirs or devisees in the case of a sale after the
death of the defendant.
But the distinction between the two cases is manifest.
In the first place, the grantee, in making the purchase, is presumed to have made the proper inquiry into the nature and validity of
his tide, and therefore to have known of the existence of the incumbrance, and to have taken the necessary precautionary measures
against it.
The sale on the execution cannot take him by surprise, with Qrdinary attention to his rights.
And in the second place, the defendant in the execution, not the

80

SUPREME COURT.
GTatiot v. United States.

-grantee, is the party most deeply interested in the proceeding, for
if his grantee, oriany succeeding grantee under the title, should be
dispossessed by reason of a sale on a prior incumbrance by judgment, he, the defendant m the execution, would be answerable over
upon his covenants of title.
The grantee, therefore, is neither exposed to a sale under the
judgment by surprise, nor is he the party usually interested in the
sale. Upon the whole, without pursuing the examination farther,
We are satisfied, that, according to the settled principles of the common law, and which are founded upon the most cogent and satisfactory grounds, the execution having issued and bearing teste in this case
after the death of one of the defendants, the judgment was irregular
and void, and that the sale and tonveyance of the real estate of the
deceased under it to the plaintiff was a nullity
'We may further add, that since this suit was commenced, and
while it was pending in the Circuit Court of the United States, the
highest court m the State of Alabama have had the sane question
before them, and have arrived at a similar result (6 Alab. Rep.
657). Judgment of the Circuit Court 9ffirmed.

CH uL.s GuATioT, PLAImUTFF IN ERROR, V. Txn UMTED STATES.
The 67th article of the general regulations of the army, published in 1821, recognizes two disbursing officers upon fortifications; namely, the agent of fortificalions and the supenntendin& engineer. Where there is no agent, the supenno.
tending engineer can be requird to perform his duty for a compensation which is
:fixed by the army regulations. The receipt of a sum of money by the superntending engineer, and custody of itquntil it could be turned over to the agent, will
not justify a charge oftwo and one half per cent. commission. And in case of
such a charge, there is no foundation f9r a question of usage to be left to the jury.
In this particular case, the charges made by General Gratiot fir collecting money
(as stated in 4he sixth, seventh, and eighth items of his account), were already included in his charge for disbursing, contained in the second item, because when
disbursing these sums he was acting as agent for fortifications as well as superntending engineer, which duty the department had a right to reqmre him to perform at a fixed compensation, which had already been allowed. The court below were right in refusing to permit evidence in support ef hese charges to go to
the lury, because the only eviaence was the transcript, which was not sufficint
in law.
The charge of two and one half per cent.,.as contained in the second item of the account, was unautbonzed by law because it consisted either of-clargesofcommissian upon money which had come into his hands for stoppages, or for remittances
made to him as disbursing agent, as above -described.
The charge of a commission of two and one half per cent. for disbursements other
than those on Forts Monroe and Calhoun, as oontaned iu the third item of his
account, was a charge for disbursing in the character of supenrntending engineer,
acting also as agent forfortificauons, and is not allowed by law.
The charge for extra official services, as contaned in the fourteenth item of the account, is the seime which this court substantially rejected when thin case was formerly under consideration, reported in 15 Peters, except the charge fir superintendence relative to the northern boundary of Ohio. Excepting i the other
services were within the ordinary speal duties of chief engineer; and there being

