JANUARY TERM, 1846.

421

Mackay et al. v. Dillon.

ISABELLA L. M.&cxAY, ExEcunrix or JAms MA.cy, ZENo MAcHAY,

GEORGE ANTHONY MACKLY, 3Imis BENNETT MACHAY, REUBEN-COLEAND ErazA Lucy, His WI E, WILLAX .COLEDIAN AND AmELIA
ANN, His wirg,Louis GuPoN AND MARy CATHERINE, HIS WIFE,
DAVID BowLEs ArD Juri JANE, HIs wIPE, AND ISABE.L LoUisA
L. MACHAY uER GUARDIAN, v. PATRICK M.
MACHAY BY IsABELI.

-AN

DILLON.
The jurisdiction of this court, when a case is brought up from a State court
under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act, does not extend to questions
of evidence ruled by that court, unless it is soqght to give such evidence effect
for other purposes over which this court has jurisdiction.
Under the act of 1805, providing for the appointment of cqmmissioners to examine
and decide on certain claims to land, and the act of 1812, confirming those claims,.
Congress did not intend to adopt the boundary-lines of the claims according to the
surveys which had been. laid before the commissioners; nor'adopt, for any purpose, the evidence which had been presented to the board.
A decision of the court below, cutting off all proof of the correctness or incorrectness of such surveys, was thereforb erroneous.
A survey, made at the instance of the inhabitants of St Louis, for the purpose of
presenting their claim' to commons, in due form, to the board 6f commissioners,
was in its nature a private survey, not binding on the United States, and having
no binding influence on the title' of subsequent litigants.
By what description of surveys the United States are bound, and those claiming
under them governed, reference is made to a preceding case in this volume, of
Jourdan andTLadry v. Barrett (ante, p.169), and for the effect of a legal survey
of the commons ofSt. Lcfis, to the succeeding case of Les Bois v. Bramell.

Tuis case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Missouri, by a writ of error, issued under the twenty-fifth
section of the judiciary act.
The suit was originally brought in the Circuit Court (State
court) for the county of St. Louis, but the venue changed to the
county of St. Charles.
It was an ejectment, brought by the heirs of Mackay against
Dillon, to recover a tract or parcel of land in the county of St.
Louis, containing two hundred arpents or more, bounded on the
north by land formerly belonging to Auguste Chouteau, called the
Mill tract; on the south by'aand formerly belonging to Anthony
Soulard, deceased ; on the east by the road leading from the city
of St. Louis to the village of Carondelet ; on the west by land formerly of the royal domain.
As the instruction asked by the defendant, and granted by the
court, referred to the copy of the claim given in evidence, it is
necessary to set forth the whole of this evidence upon which the
claim of the defendant rested ; and also to state the title of the

plaintiffs.

The plaintiffs showed title as follows.
1st. Mackay's will, the production of which was afterwards rendered unnecessary, by the admission of the defendant, that the
laintiffs were the wife and children and sons-in-law of James
ackay deceased.
33
VOL. IV.

422

SUPREME COURT.
Mackay et al. v. Dillon.

2d. The admission of the defendant, that, at the commencement of the suit, he had in his possession thirty acres, part of the
tract in the declaration described, all of which, thus in his possession, laid west of the eastern line 6f'the tract claimed as the commons of St. Louis, and was embraced in the survey of the commons as made-by James Mackay in the year 1806.
3d. Mackay's petition for a concegsion, and the order of the
Lieutenant-Governor thereupon, both in 1799, and a survey in
1802.
4th. Proceedings of the board of commissioners established by
the act of Congress, .passed on the 2d of March, 1805.
5th. Proceedings under the act of Congress, passed on the 13th
of June, 1812.
6th. Extracts from the decision of Mr. Bates, under the same
act.
7th. Proceedings of the board of commissioners established by
the acts of' Congress, passed- on the 9th of July, 1832, and 2d of
March, 1833.
8th. The act of Congress, passed on the 4th of July, 1836.
9th. The certificate of the surveyor of the public lands, dated
the 5th of December, 1640.
10th. The deposition of Soulard.
11th. Proof of the location and value of the land.
These points will be taken up in order. Nothing more need be
said with regard to the first and second.
3. Mackay's petition for a concession; the order of the Lieutenant-Governor, and survey.
"To Don Charles Dehault Delassus, Lieutenant-Governor and
Commander-in-chief of Upper Louisiana.
"James Mackay, commandant of St. Andre, of Missouri, has
the 'honor to represent, that, having often sundry reports to make to
government, on which account his presence is required in this
town, he would wish to have a place of residence in ,the same ;
therefore; considering that all the town lots are conceded, he has
the honor to supplicate you to have.the goodness to grant to him,
to the south of this town, a vacant tract of land of about two hundred and some'arpents in superficie, which tract of land is bounded as
follows:- To the north, by the land of Mr. Auguste Chouteau ;
to the south, by lands of Mr. Antoine Soulard; to the east, by
the. public road going from this town to Carondelet ; and to the
wet, by his Majesty's domain. The petitioner, confiding in your
justice, hopes that his zeal for his Majesty's service, and the smhll
salary which he enjoys, shall be strong motives in the opinion of a
chief who, like you, makes his happiness consist in distributing favors to the officers who have the honor to serve under his orders.

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

423

Mackay et al. v. Dillon.

In this belief, he hopes to obtain of your justice the favor-which k
solicits.
JACQUE MACKAY.
St. Louis, October 9, 1799."
" St. Louis of Illinois, October 9, 1799.
" Cognizance being taxen of the foregoing memorial of Mr
James lackay, and due attention being paid to his merits and good
services, the surveyor of this Upper Louisiana, Don Antonio- Soulard, shall put the interested party into possession of the land which
he solicits, in the place designated in this memorial, and this being
executed, he shall draw a plat of his survey, delivering the same
to the party, with his certificate, in order that it shall serve to him
to obtain the concession and title in form, from the intendantgeneral, to whom alone corresponds, by royal, order-, the distributing and granting all classes of lands of the royal domain.

CARLOS DEHAULT DELASSUS.
" Truly translated. St. Louis, 20th February, 1833.
JULIUS DE MUN."
Translationof the Spanish-Survey.
"The bounds and comers are all indicated on.tle zurvey, All
the line-trees are, marked with a blaze above, and. tw6 notches below, and the right and left blazed only. Marked in book Al
fol. 55, No. 94.
" Don Antoine Soulard, particular surveyor of Upper 'Louisiana, certify that, on the 24th of this present year, in virtue of the
decree which accompanies of the Lieutenant-Govemor aid subdelegate of the royal estate, Don Carlos Dehault Delassusl- in date
of the rnonth of October, of the year 1799, I went to the land of
Don S mtiago Mackay, the admeasuremet of whichIT have taken
in. presence of the propietor and of the neighbours who boufid
thereon, with the perch of Paris of eighteen feet long, according to
the custom adopted in this province of Louisiana, and without regarding the variations of the needle, which is seven (7) degrees and
thirty (30) minutes, as appears by the plat that precedes ; which
land is situate to the south of the little river of the mills, situate
near the town of St. Louis, bounding north by the lands of Don
Aiuguste Chouteau ; south, in part, by another piece of land of
Don Antonio Soulard and the royal domain ; east, in part, by the
land of Don Auguste Chouteau, and by the royal road from, the
town to the village of Carondelet ; west, by the lands of the royal
domain ; and in order that it may appear when fitting, I give the
present with the plat that precedes, in which are indicated the dimensions and natural and artificial limits which surround the said
land. St. Louis of Illinois, 17th of December, 1802.
ANTONIO" SOULARD. ParticularSurveyor."

424

SUPREME COURT.
Mackay et al. v. Dillon.

4. Proceedings of the board of commissioners established by
the act of Congress, passed the 2d of March, 1805.
This act provided for the appointment of three perspns, who
should examine and- decide on all claims submitted to them, and
report the result to the Secretary of the Treasury, who was directed to communicate it to Congress.
"July 22d, 1806.
"The board met agreeably to adjournment. Present the Honorable John B. C. Lucas, Clement B. Penrose, and James L. Donaldson, Esquires.
" James Mackay, claiming two hundred arpents of land, or
thereabouts, situate in the fields of St. Louis, produces a concession
from Charles D. Delassus, dated October 9th, 1799, and a survey of the same, dated the 24th of November, and certified the
17th of December, 1802.
"1Auguste Chouteau, being duly sworn, says, that the said tract
of land was surveyed in 1804 or 1805 ; that' he never heard of a
concession: having be6n granted for the same until the survey was
taken ; that the said tract is adjoining a tract claimed by the Witness, and that the same interferes with a tract claimed by the inhabitants of St. Louis as a common. The board, from the above
testimony, are satisfied that the aforesaid concession is antedated.
On motion, adjourned to to-morrow, 9 o'clofk, A. M. See minutes, No. 1, pp. 412, 413, 417, and 419."
"TX-day, July 31st, 1807. 3 o'clock.
"The board met agreeably to adjournment. Present the Honorable John B. C. Lucas, Clement B. Penrose, and Frederick
Bates, Esquires. James Mackay, claiming about two hundred and
eighty-two arpents in the common of St. Louis, produces a concession from Charles Dehault Delassus, dated the 9th of October,
1799. Survey and certificate dated the 17th of December, 1802.
Laid over for decision. - The board adjourned until to-morrow, 9
o'clock.
JOHN B. C. LUCAS.
CLEMENT B. PENROSE.
.FREDERICK BATES.
"See book No. 3, pp. 19-21."
1"1Saturday, .N'ovember 4th, 1809.
"Board met. Present, John B. C. Lucas, Clement 13. Penrose, commissioners. James Mackay, claiming two hundred and
eighty-two arpents of land, situate on the commons of St. Louis.
See book No. 1, p. 417 ; book No. 3, p. 21. It is the opinion
of the board that this claimought not'to be confirmed. Board adjourned till Monday next, 9 o'clock, A. M.
JOHN B. C. LUCAS.
CLEMENT B. PENROSE.
16 Bee book No. 4, pp. 185 - 187.

JANUARY

TERM4 846.

Mackay'et aL

425

. Dillon.

5. Proceedings under the act of the i3th of June, 1812.
." "SV
Louis, December 28th, 1813.
"James Mackay claims about thirty arpents of land near ihe
town of St. Louis, pr.duces a coficession from Charles D..Delassus, Lieutenant-Governor, for about two.hundred arpents, dated the
9th of October, 1799. SEuivey of two hundred and eightyzeight
arpefits, 17th of December, 1802 (certified).
"I.
P. Leduc, as agent of claimant, abandons all but. about
thifty arpents; the part abandoned supposed to be comprehended by the Arvey of the commons. It appearing from the
minutes, book No. 1, p. 417, that no testimony has been introduced on the merits of this claim. A witness is now admitted.
" Antoine Soiflard, duly sworn, says that this claim was granted,
to claimant by C. D. Delassus, Lieutenant-Governor, on the
recommendation bf his successor, Z. Suedeau, who had promised
the same. It was surveyed under the Spanish government, and
has ever since been considered as property of claimant; that corn
was raised on premises for claimant, during three or four of the last
years.

" Note. No more abandoned than may fall within the commons, should they be confirmed.
See Bates's rminutes, pp.- 116
117."
6. Extracts from the decision of Mr. Bates under the same act,
and act of 3d March, 1813.
Plaintiffs then read in evidence extracts from Bates's. decision,
opinions of the recorder of land titles for Missoiri Territory, as to
claims entered under act of 13th June, 1812, and proven before 1st
.January, 1814, as provided by the act of the 3d of March, j 813,
comprhending also the claims in the late district of Arkansas, which;
by act of 2d August, 1813, were permitted to ba entered, untl
1st January, 1814, and proven until 1st July, 1814, together with
the extensions of quantity provided by fourth 'section of act of
3d M"arch, 1813, and confirmations under the act of lth 'ApHil,
1814.

VOL. IV.

426

SUPREME COURT.
Mackay et al. v. Dillon.
RTIE-C0RDER'S OFFICE,

St. Louis, ,Missouri,5th December, 1840.
"I1 cerdfy the above to be truly extracted fropm page 36 of book
No. 2, except the caption, which is truly copied from page 1 of
book No. 1, being two of the five small books, with the following
ilidorsenlient on the first, and also on the fifth book, believed to be
in the handwriting of Frederick Bates, to wit :" These five small books are originals in the proper handwriting
of the undersigned, being his decisions on,land claims nince the
adjournment of the late board. These were arranged and fairly
transcribed for report to the commissioner of the general land-office,
but not yet recorded in the books, because they have no authority
till sanctioned by government.
FREDERICK BATES, Recorder of Land Titles.
St. Louis, .November 1st, 1815.
"All on file in this office.
F. R. CONWAY,
U. S. Recorder of Land Titles in the
State of Missouri."
This decision the plaintiffs alleged to have been confirmed'by
the act of 29th April, 1816. 3 Lit. & Brown's ed. 328.
7. Proceedings of the'board of commissioners, established by
the acts of 9th July, 1833, and 2d March, 1883.
The act of 1832 authorized commissioners to examine all the
unconfirmed claims to landin Missouri, &c., to class them, and, at
the commencement of each session of Congress during said term
of examination, lay before the commissioner of the general landoffice a report of the claims so classed; &c., to be laid before
Congress for their final decision upon the claims contained in the
first class. The act of 1833 directed the commissioners to embrace every claim to a donation of land, held in virtue of setdenent and cultivation.
Plaintiffs then read in evidence, from the report of tie recorder
anat ommissioners for the adjustment of land titles in Missouri,
under the acts of Congress of the 9th of July, 1832, and 2d of
March, 1833, printed by authority of Congress, all under the head
of No. 54 (James Mackay claiming two hubdred and more arpents,) pp. 174-177 of said report.
" Monday, February 18th, 1833.
"F. R. Conway, Esq., appeared pursuant to adjournment,
having been authorized, by a resolution of the board of commissioners of the lat of December last, to receive evidence. James
Mackay, by his legal representatives, claiming two hundred and
more arpents, - it being a special location. See book B, pp. 433,
434 ; minutes, No. 1,p. 417 ; minutes of recorder, p. 117. The
claimant further refers to book B, p. 486, in order to show that
the claim for the commons of St. Louis does not interfere with this

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

427

Mackay et al. v. Dillon.

claim ; also, to book No. 5, p. 552. Produces a paper purporting
to be a concession from Carlos Dehault Delassus, dated October
9, 1799. See Bates's decision, p. 36.
11M. P. Leduc, being duly sworn, saith, that the signature to
concession is in the proper handwriting of the said Carlos Dehault
Delassus. Book No. 3, p.21 ; No. 4,p. 186. For further testimony of M. P. Leduc in lehalf of this claim, see next claim below.
Antoine Soulard, claiming'two hundred and four arpents forty-eight
perches, to' wit : deponent further says that he informed Mr. Soulard that in case he would abandon the part of his claim which was
included in the commons of St. Louis, MIr.Bates woulat confirm.
the balance of said claim ; thereupon Soulard called upon Mr.
Bates, and made the abandonment, upon which Bates confirmed
the part of said claim which lies east of the common, and at the
same time, Soulard, as agent for Mackay, made the same abandonment on Mackay's claim, and that since that time Soulard told the
deponent that Mackay disapproved of said abandonment, and that
he, the said deponent, never acted as agent for ,Mackay in said
claim ; that he does not know that Soulard ever was authorized by
Mackay to make said abandonment ; that since the time of said
abandonment, Mackay remained as ostenzible owner and claimant
of said land ; that he built thereon a house, and lived and died in it.
The deponent further says, that what he understands by these
claims interfering with the commons of St. Louis, is the part of
said claims included in the survey of said commons, made by
.Mackay in 1806, as recorded. Deponent believes that taxes'were
paid by Mackay and Soulard on said lands until '1820 ; and that
the part of Mackay's claim which was not confirmed was sold
under an execution as being the property of said Mackay. Adjourned until to-morrow, at 10 o'clock, A. M4.
F. R. CONWAY."
See book No. 6,pp. 102-104, and 107.
" Thursday, .November 7th, 1833.
"The board met pursuant to adjournment. Present, L. F. Linn,
A. G. Harrison, F. R. Conway, commissioners. James Mackay
claiming two hundred and more arpents. See p. 103 of this book.
The board, after minutely examining the original papers in this case,
see no cause for entertaining even the suspicion of the concession
being antedated, as expressed by the former board, and they are
unanimously of opinion that this claim ought to be confirmed to the
said James Mackay, or to his legal representatives, according to
the concession. The board adjourned until to-morrow, 9 o'clock,
A. M.
L.F. LINN,
F. R. CONWAY.
A. G. HARRISON."
See book No. 6. pp. 304, 306, and 307.

428

SUPREME COURT.
Mackay et al. v. Dillon.

8. The act of Congress passed 4th July, 1836.
By this act, Congress confirmed the decisions in favor of land
claimants made by the above commissioners, saving-and reserving,
however, to all adverse claimants the right to asserihe validity of
their claims in a court or courts of justice ; and the second section
declared, that if it should be found that any tract 6r tracts thus
confirmed, or any part thereof, had been previously located by any
other person or persons under any law of the United States, or had
been surveyed or sold by the United States, the present act should
confer no title to such lands in opposition to the rights acquired
by such location or purchase, &c., &c.
9, The certificate of the surveyor of the public lands, dated 5th
December, 1840, accompanying which was a plat.
" St. Louis, 5th oJ December, 1840.
"The above plat of survey No. 3,123, containing 225 ,Imacres,
in the name of James Mackay, or his legal representatives, is correctly copied fiom the approved plat on file in this office. The
said survey is the tract confirmed to said James Mackay, or his
legal representatives, by the act of Congress, approved the 4th of
July, 1836, entitled I An act confirming claims to land in the State..
of Missouri, ad for other purposes,' it being No. 54 in the report
of the commissioners referred to in the above designated act of
Congress. No separate survey has been made of the thirty arpents
of said tract, confirmed by an act of .Congress, approved the 29th
of April, 1816.
WILLIAM MILBURN,
,Surveyor of the Public Lands of the State
of Illinois and Missouri."
10. The deposition of Soulard.
Plaintiffs then read in evidence the deposition of Garlon Sonlard, namely :"We do hereby agree, that the deposition.of James G. Soulard
be taken on this 30th of November, 1839, to be read in evidence
in the trial of a certain cause now pending in the Circuit Court of
St. Charles county, State of Missouri, wherein the heirs of James
Mackay, deceased, are plaintiffs, and Patrick M. Dillon is defendant. On the part of the plaintiffs, L. E. Lawless ; H. R.
Gamble for defendant. James G. Soulard, of lawful age, being
produced, sworn, and examined on the part of the plaintiffs, 9n his
oath says, I was very well acquainted with the late James lackay,
who died at his residence in St. Louis county, in the fall dr winter
of 1823 or 1824; I think in 1823. He left several children, who
are still living; namely, Zeno, Eliza, wife of Reuben Coleman,
Catherine, wife of Louis Guyon, Julia, wife of David Bowles,
Antoine, James, Amelia Ann, wife of William Coleman, Louisa,
lately married to some person in Kentucky; whose name is Baker,

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

429

Mackay et al. v. Dillbn.

as I am informed; be also left a widow, who is still living; her
name is Isabella L. Mackay. The residence of James Mackay,
and where he died, is part of the building now known as the convent, in the south part of the city of St. Louis. The confirmed
part of the tract of land on which said house is built is outside and
east of the line of the St. Louis commons ; and all the land there
inclosed and occupie.d by Mr. Mackay, at the time of his death,
was east of the commons. He had about three lcres inclosed (as
near as I can remember). The part occupied by him was understood to be that part of said land which was confirmed to Mr.
Mackay. Mr. Mackay left a will and appointed executors ; namely, Anthony Soulard, my father, Isabella L. Mackay, the widow,
and Zeno Mackay, under certain conditions, and Gabriel Long.
The widow of James Mackay remained in possession of the mansion-housd, after the death of her husband, two or three- years, I
think, by herself and her tenants ; after she ceased to occupy it,
I think Mr. Mullanply took possession ; after which time neither
my father nor Mr. Mackay ever had possession of any part of the
said tract as executors of James Mackay.
JAMES G. SOULARD.
"Sworn to and subscribed, before me, this 30th of November,
A. D. 1839.
P. W. WALSH, Justice."
11. Proof of the location and value of the land.
Plaintiffs then proved that land in the possession of Dillon was
on the east end of the United States survey offered in evidence,
west of the dotted line representing front line of commons ; that
the land on the extreme west end of said survey was worth
three hundred dollars per acre, and increased in value-as you proceed east in said survey, and that the monthly value of the premises in possession of Dillon was one cent per month. (Here the
plaintiffs closed their case.)
The defendant, to sustain his title, gave in evidence the following
documents, and referred to the following laws.
1. Proceedings of Syndics.
2. Survey ofthe tract claimed as commons, by Mackay, in
1806.
3. Proceedings of the board of commissioners under the act
of Congress passed in 1805, the same law which was referred to
by the plaintiffs, as above mentioned.
4. Act of Congress passed i3th of June, 1812.
5. Act of Congress passed 26th of May, 1824, and the testimony taken under it.
6.. Act of Congress passed January 27, 1831.

480

SUPREME COURT.
Mackay et a"lv.

Dillon.

7. Evidence of Pascal Cerre.
8. Two deeds from the city of St. Louis to Dent and Dillon
respectively.
1. Proceedings of Syndics.
" We, the undersigned, Syndics named by the meeting of inhabitants holden in the government-chamber, the 22d of the
month of September of this year, 1782, by Mr. Don Francis
Cruzat, Lieutenant-Colonel Grad, of infantry, commander-in-chief
and lieutenant-governor of the western part and districts of the
Illinois, to 'establish fixed and unalterable rules for the constructiqn
and maintenance of the streets, bridges, and canals 'of this village,
clothed with the authority of the public, which have selected us for
these ends, have determined in the said government-chamber,
and in the presence of the' aforesaid Mr. D. F. Cruzat, this day,
the 29th of the same month, the following, which is to be regularly conformed to, in future.
" 1. There shall be held, the first day of every year, in the
government-chamber, and in the presence of Monsieur the Lieutenant-Governor, a meeting of all the inhabitants of this post,
wherein, by a plurality of voices, there shall be named two Syndics, who shal together (' unanimously') supeintenct the maintenance of the streets) bridges, and canals of the village, and who
shall be obliged to cause to be observed and fulfilled strictly the
following articles.
"2. The first duty of the Syndics, immediately after their election, shall be, to'examine for, themselves the interior Iccality of the
village, and to cause without delay the streets, canals, and bridges
to be repaired by the persons who are bound so to do, and whom
we indicate below ; and that if any one refuse to conform thereto,
they have recourse to law to compel them to-fulfil an object so indispensable for the public convenience.
" 3. All the inhabitants fronting-upon a street along which a run
(streamlet) shall pass shall be obliged to give a course to the water
to the Mississippi, to make the canals and bridges necessary to
maintain them, and keep the streets at all times practicable for the
convenience of carriages and public cars.
"4. Besides the specifications in the aforegoing articles, the
streets in general shall be repaired and maintained in good condition by the proprietors of the grounds fronting on them, it being
understood that those opposite to each other shall co6perate in
equal portions, if the case require it.
" 5. Finally, the little river bridge, as well as all the roads
which are outside of the village, shall be made (and) maintained by
the public.
" Doe and passed in the government-hall, and in the presence

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

431

Mackay et q. -e. Dillon.

of Monsieur the Lieutenant-Governor, who has signed with us the
said day and year ut supra.
PERRAULT.

"Signed,

BRAGEAUX.
CERRE.
RENE KIERCERAUX.
AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU.
CHAUVIN.
Ordinary mark of JOSEPH + TAILLON.
cc
c" "JOSEPH + MOINVILLE.
FRANCIS CRUZAT."

"We, the undersigned, Syndics naroed by the meeting of the
inhabitants which was holden in,
.the'-government-chamber, the
22d of the month of September of 4his year, 1782, by MQnsieur
D6n Francis Cruzat, Lieutetant-Golonel Grad, of'infantry, commandant-in-chief and lieutenant-govqnor of-the western part and
districts, of the Illinois, to establish fixed and unalterable rules
for the construction and maintenadee of the inclosures of the commions of this village, clothed with the authority which elected us
for these ends, have determined in the said government-chamber
and in the presence of the aforesaid Mr. Don Francis Cruzat, this
day, the 29th of the same month, the following, whereunto conformity for the future- shall be regularly observed.
" 1. The first day of every year there shall be named publicly,
in the government-chamber, in the presence. of Monsieur the Lieutenant-Governor, a Syndic, and. immediately :afterwards eight
arbiters, who shall make the. first 6xamination of the inclosures
of the commons.
"2. The inclosures of the said commons shall be made and
completed every year by*the 15th of April,,at the latest, and shall
be accepted by the eight arbiters the first Sunday after this f6urth.
"3. The aforesaid arbiters shall not accept the inclosures, unless they be constructed in such manner that the animals cannot
escape from the common and. do damage to, the seedings of the
inhabitants.
"4. It shall be the duty of the sid arbiters to render an account of the examination of the inclosures which they shall have
made to the Syndic, who thereupon shall immediately' nominate,
eight others, to verify the exactness or 'negligence- of the first.
And if there shall be found inclosures which are not in the condition required to be accepted, and the first arbiters shall not have
made their report thereof to the Syndic, they shall be condemned
to pay each a fine of ten p.ounds.
"5. Whensoever it shall come-to the knowledge of the Syndic,
that any inclosure is not in the state decreed by the third article of

432

SUPREME COURT.
Mackay et al. v. Dillo.

this ordinance, it shall be his duty to give notice thereof to the
proprietor, in order that, without delay, he may apply to it the
proper remedy ; and if the latter shall, through caprice or otherwise, neglect this first duty, the Syndic shall cause it to be repaired at his cost.
"6. If the last who shall have made the visit of examination to
the inclosure shall not have given notice to the Syndic of the condition in which he shall have found them, and if, in the interval between his visit and that which is subsequently to be made, it shall
be proved that the anirhals have escaped, and that they have done
any damage, he shall be forced to pay for it; and if it happen that
the Syndic, having been warned of the bad condition of the inclosures, shall have neglected to give notice thereof to the proprietors,
then he shall be responsible for the damage, and be constrained to
pay it himself. In like manner, in the case of the proprietors of
the inclosures having been notified by the Syndic to go and repair
them, and their failure.to do so immediately, they shall undergo the
same penalty.
"7. If it happen that at any time when the animals shall have
escaped, and shall have d me d6mage, that several inclosures are
defective, in 9rder to remedy' the vexatious consequences which
usually result from similar facts, it is ordered, that the damages be
paid in equal portions by those whose inclosures are defective.
Nevertheless, if it should occur that, in the interval between one
visit and another, the inclosures having been found in good condition by the Syndic or other persons appointed for that purpose, the
animals shall have escaped through any breach made by unknown
malefactors, or from any othexr unexpected event, the damage following thereupon shall rest upon him upon whom it has fallen.
"8. If the animals which shall be turned loose come to be taken
up in the fields, without the owners having co~perated in their
egreos, they shall not be held to pay either the caption or the supposed damage which they may have occasioned.
"9. Whensoever it shall be, proven, that the gate-keeper shall
have allowed animals of any sort whatsoever to escape, by his
negligence or otherwise, he shall be forced to pay the damage which
may be done.
" 10. Sosoo, as the inclosures shall have been accepted, it shall
not be permitted to any person whatsoever to pass over them, upon
pain of paying for the fi..t offence ten pounds, and for the second
twenty-four, and suffer an imprisonment of twenty-four hours.
" 11. Malefactors surprised in making a brach in the inclosures,
whether to pass themselves, or to allow the animals to pass, whatsoever be the motive, shall be condemned to pay, besides the
damages they may have caused, a fine of fifty pounds, and to
undergo an imprisonment of fifteen days.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

433

Mackay et al. v. Dillon.

"12. 'Itis ordered, that all those who may find any one committing the crime specified in the preceding article shall give. the
promptest advice thereof to Monsieur, the Lieutenant-Governor, and
shall themselves conduct the criminal to prison, if it be possible
for them to arrest him ; but if any one, through a mistaken indulgence, or any private interest, shall not strictly fulfil this duty, and
if it shall be proven that he has stated to other persons that he had
surprised any one in such case, he shall be reputed an accomplice
in the crime, and condemned to pay the same fine and damages,
and undergo the same privation, as hereinbefore provided.
"13. The proprietors of each inclosure shall be obliged to place
thereupon a stamp, with their name in full, under penalty of fifteen
pounds fine.
"14. He who takes a horse in the prairie, to make use of him,
without the consent of the master, shall be condemned to pay
twenty-five pounds fine, and punished with twenty-four hours' imprisonment ; and if any unlucky accident shall befall the horse, he
shall pay therefor according to tho estimate which shall be made
thereof.
"15. If horses or animals tied in the prairies break their
rope, and come to be taken up in the fields, he who takes them up
shall receive five pounds per head ; and the proprietor of the land
whereon they are so taken shall demand the damages, which shall
be assessed to him by the arbiters.
"116. Whensoever it shall be proven, that any one has taken the
rope of an.animal fastened in the prairie, he shall pay ten pounds
therefor, without prejudice to the five pounds for- the taking, and
the damages which he shall have occasioned, according to thd estimate of the arbiters, which shall be made thereof.
" 17. It shall not be permitted to any person whatever to tie
horses or other animals upon the lands of others, without their consent ; otherwise the owner of the land shall seize the animals, and
exact of him to whom they belong five pounds per head, and shall
have the right to claim the supposed damages which they may have
done.
"18. Whensoever any slaves shall be found to have violated any
of the foregoing articles, their masters shall pay the fines, costs of
taking up, and damages prescribed ; and the aforesaid slaves shall
be punished with the lash, according to the exigency of the
,case.
" 19. All the fines shall be deposited in the hands of the Syndic,
designated by the Lieutenant-Governor, of the two who shall be
annually named, for the police and maintenance of the village,
and they shall be convertible to the public wotks of the community.
"Done and passed in the government hall, in the presence of
K
VOL. IV.
55

434

SUPREME COURT.
Mackay et al. v. Dillon.

the aforesaid Lieutenant-Governor) who has- signed with us the
same day and year ut supra.
"Signed,
PERRAULT.
CERRE.
RENE KIERCERAUX.
BRAGEAUX.
Ordinary.mark of JH. + TAILLON.
C
"
JH. + MOINVILLE.
CHAUVIN. AUGUSTE CHOUTEAU.
"FRANC. CRUZAT."
2. Survey of the tract claimed as commons, by Mackay, in 1806.
"I do certify, that the above plat represents four thousand two
hundred and ninety-three arpents of land, situated joining the town
of St. Louis, and surveyed by me at the request of the inhabitants
of the said St. Louis) who claim the same as their right in common, and at Jwhose request I have included in the said common
seven different pretensions of different individuals, as appears on
the above plot, besides those which are unknown to me, and not
surveyed. Given under my hand at St. Louis, the 22d day of
JAMES MACKAY.
February, 1806.
"Received for record, St. Louis, 27th February, 1806.
ANTOINE SOULARD,
Surveyor- General of Territory of Louisiana."
3. Proceedings of the board of commissioners, under the act
of Congress, passed in 1805 (2 Lit. & Brown's ed. 324), and in
connection with this the second volume of American State Papers,
"Public Lands," 549, 377.
Copied from the original documents on file and of record, in
book B, pages 486-488.
"Mi/ay l0th, 1806.
" The board met agreeably to adjournment. Present, Honorable Clement B. Penrose, Esq.
" The i~habitants of the town of St. Louis, claiming four thou,sand two Hundred and ninety-three arpents of land as a common,
produce a certificate of gurvey of the same, dated 22d of February, 1806, - a, set of regulations of the inhabitants, having for
object the keeping in order or repairing of the inclosure of said
commons, and imposing penalties on such as should neglect or
refuse to ,repair the same. Said regulations, signed by the then
Lieutenant-Governor, Cruzat, and dated September 22d, 1782.
Auguste Chouteau, being duly sworn, says, that the inhabitants never
had a concession for said commons. That he has always known it
as such, although of a much smaller extent at first ; that it was first
fenced in the year 1764, at the expense of the inhabitants, who

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

435

Mackay et a. v. Dillon.

always kept it in repair ; and further, that every person, inhabitant
of the village, was in the habit of 'pasturing his cattle in the same,
and of cutting wood; and further, that he has known the said commons, as surveyed and fenced, for upwards of fifteen years hence.
.Gregoire Sarpee being sworn, says-that he arrived in the country
about nineteen or twenty years ago ; that he has always known said
commons as such; that the same had then acquired its present
size ; that when he arrived he found the same fenced in, and that
every inhabitant was obliged, under certain penalties, to attend to
and make such repairs as the said inclosure or fence required ; and
further, that Sylvester Labadie having, in the year 1792, obtained
a concession for lands forming part of said commons, and having,
in consequence thereof, began his improvement of the same, the
inhabitants remonstrated against it*to the governor, who prevented
him from cultivating the same, until such time as the intendant should
have decreed otherwise.
"William H. Lecompte, being also sworn, says, that he has been
an inhabitant of the country for upwards [of] forty-four years ; has
known the commons from his first arrival in it. That said commons has increased in proportion to thp population of. the village ;
that he has known it of the size it now is for upwards of ten years ;
that the old commons is included in the present' one, and that the
regulations passed respecting the same were always considered as
laws, and enforced as. such ; and further, that other regulations
were had respecting the same, and also put in forde. The board
reject this claim, for want of actual inhabitation and cultivation,
and a duly-registered warrant of survey (carried to page 311 for
remarks of the board). See commissioner's minutes, book No. 1,
pages 288-290."
SJuly- 14th, .1806.

"The board mdt agreeably to adjournment. Present, the Honorible John B: C. Lucas, Clement B. Penrose, James L. Donaldson, Esquires.
"In the case of the commons of St. Louis, pp. 289, 290, the
board remark, that this claim originated under the French government; that grants of commons were' usual under the French and
Spanish governments, and in conformity with their respective laws,
- they deem it to he' equitable under Spanish law. On motion,
adjourned to Monday, the 16th instant, 9 O'clock, A. M. See
minutes, book No. 1, pp. 310-312."
" Thursday, January 2d, 1812.
oard met. Present, John B. C. Lucas, Clement B. Penrose, Frederick Bates, commissioners. Inhabitants of the town
'of St. Louis, claiming 4,293 arpents of land as a common. See
book No. 1, pp. 289, 311.
" It is the opinion of a majority of the board that this claim
."

436

SUPREME COURT.
Mackay et al. v,.Dillon.

ought not to be granted'; .Clement B. Penrose, commissioner,
voting fdr a confirmation thereof under the usages anad customs of
the Spanish government. Board adjourned till Monday next, nine
o'clock, A. M.
JOHN B. C. LUCAS.
CLEMENT B. PENROSE.
FREDERICK BATES.
"1See commissioner's minutes, book No., 5, pp. 551 - 553."
4. Act of Congress, passed the 13th of June, 1812 (2 Lit.
& Brown's ed. 748).
1 This act, amongst other things, enacted, " That the rights, ti"tles, and claims to town or village lots, out lots, common field lots,
and commons in, adjoining, and belonging to the several towns or
villages of Portage des Sioux, St. Charles, St. Louis, &c., &c.,
which lots have been inhabited, cultivated, or possessed prior to
the 20th day of December, 1803, shall be, and the same dre
hereby, confirmed to the inhabitants of the respective iowns or villages aforesaid, according to their several right or rights in common
thereto ; provided, that nothing herein contained.shail be construed
to affect the rights of any persons claiming the same lands, or any
part thereof, whose claims have been confirmed by the board of
commissioners for adjusting and 'settling claims to land in the said
territory."
5. Act of Congress, passed on the 26th of May, 1824 (4 Lit.
& Brown's ed. 5), ahd the testimony taken under it.
Testimony relating to town and village lots, out lots, and common field lots in, adjoining, or belonging to the several towns -or
villages of Portage des Sioux, St. Charles, St. Louis, St. Ferdinand, Villa a Robert, Carondelet, Ste. GeDyevieve, New Madrid,
New Bourbon, Little Prairie, and Mine a Burton, in Missouri, and
the village of Arkansas, in the Territ6ry of Arkansas, as directed
by an act of Congress, passed May 26th, 1824.
THEODORE HUNT, Reiorder of Land Titles.
See Hunt's minute book, No. 1, p. 1.
The mayor, aldermen, and citizens of the city of St. Louis
produce Henry Douchonquette and Joseph Charleville, for the purpose of having tbeir depositions recorded as relates to.the St. Louis
commons.
Henry. Douchonquette, being duly sworn, says he is sixty-six
years of 'age, and has lived in St. Louis upwards of forty years,
and during this time, until the change of government took place, he
always knew there was a common belonging to the inhabitants of
the town of St.'Louis, and that there was a fence round it, and
that he has often assisted to make and keep in repiair the said fence.
As near as he can descriheit, if was bounded as \follows :- The
fence began. near to where Mr. Reynard *nowlives, above'the town,
and rum back of"the town ; and from thence to the. Carondelet field

437

JANUARY TERM, 1846.
Mackay et al v. Dillon.

fence, or to the River des Peres ; ana the ground thus taken in
was eonsidered the commons.
HENRY' DOUCHONQUETTE.
Sworn to before me, November 22d, 1825.
THEODORE HUNT, Recorder of Land Titles.
Joseph Charleville, being duly sworn, says he has resided
thirty-five years in the town of St. Louis, and is fifty-five years
old, and has had the deposition of Henry Douchonquette read to
him, and of his knowledge he knows it to be true.
JOSEPH CHARLEVILLE.
Sworn to before me, November 22d, 1825.
THEODORE HUN4', Recorder of Land Titles.
Mackay Wherry, being duly sworn, says he has triy translated
and read.to Henry Douchonquette and Joseph Charleville the above
depositions before they signed the same,.and they said they were
M. WHERRY.
true.
Sworn to before me, November 92d, 1825.
THEODORE HUNT, Recorder of Land, Titles.
See Hunt's MIS. book, No. 3, p. 79.
John Bap. Lorain, senior, being duly sworn, as relates to the
commons of St. Louis, says he is about eighty-four years of age,
and it is about fifty years since he first came to reside in St. Louis,
it being when Piernas was lieutenant-governor of this country ;
and he, this deponent, says, when he first came to reside at St.
Louis, the land fenced in between the Mississippi River and the
common field fence (excepting the town and such small grants as
were made within the said limits) was a common for the use of the
inhabitants of the town of St. Louis ; certain he is, that it was always used as such by the inhabitants, from the time he first caine
to reside in St. Louis until he removed to Florisant, about twentyfive years ago; and this depbnent further-says,, that when he first
came to St. Louis, the commons extended to the River des Peres ;
but after that, when Carondelet was laid out, there was an agreement made between the inhabitants of St. Louis and the ifihabitants of Carondelet, that the common field fence of St. Louis
should join the common field fence of Carondelet, and that all east
of the St. Louis field fence should belong to the inhabitants of St.
Louis, and west, to Carondelet.
his
JOHN BAPT.ISTE + LORAIN, Pere.
mark.

Sworn to before me, November 23d, 1825.
THEODORE HUNT, Recorder of Land Titles.
Baptiste Dominee, being duly sworn, says he is seventy-five
years of age, and will have resided forty-six years in St. Louis
KK *

438

SUPREME COURT.
Mackay et al.,

. Dillon.

next February, and that he has had the depositiou of John Baptiste Lorain, pere, read to him, and that he knows it to be true.
his

BAPTISTE + DOMINEE.
mark.
3d, 1825.
November
me,
Sworn to bore
THEODORE HUNT, Recordei of Land Titles.
Alexander Gremaux, dit Charpentier, being duly sworn, says
he is sixty-six years of age, and has resided in St. Louis forty-four
years, and has heard read to him the deposition of John B. Lorain,
senior, and knows it to be true ; and he further knows, that the
commons was surveyed by Antoine Soulard, in the time of the
Spanish government.,
his

ALEXANDER + GREMAUX, dit Charpentier.
mark.

Sworn to before me, November 23d, 1825.
THEODORE HUNT, Recorder of Land Titles.
Mackay *Wherry, being duly sworn, says, that he has truly
translated and read to John Baptiste Lorain, senior, the aforegoing
deposition of his, before he signed the same, and that.he said it
was true ; and that he likewise translated and read to Baptiste
Dominee and Alexander Gremaux, dit Charpentier, the deposition
of John Baptiste Lorain, senior, and that they said it was, to their
knowledge, true ; and this deponent further says, that he has translated and read the depositions of Baptiste Dominee and Alexander
Gremaux to each of them before they signed the same.
M. WHERRY.
Sworn to before me, November 23d, 1825.
THEODORE HUNT, Recorder of Laun Titles.
See Hunt's minutes, book No. 3, page 82 and 83.
Baptiste Rivier6 del Bacan6, being duly sworn, in relation tc
the St. Louis commons, says, the bounds of the commons began
where the ox-mill now is, and thence west, up the 'hill; thence
southwardly, in the rear of where Joseph Papen now lives ; after
it crossed Mill Creek, it went to the Prairie des Noyer ; thence
southwardly, about an arpent or two below the place called the
Pain Sucre, which place is a little in the rear of where the shottower now is ; and-.eastwardly by the Missis§ippi,' passifng by the
spring of Beneto Vasquez. And this deponent says, that for upwards of sixty years the land contained within these limits was the
St. Louis commons, and he believes was granted by St. Ange;
and he does not live in St. Louis, nor. has any lot there.
his

BAPTISTE + RIVIERE.
mark. ,

-JANUARY TERM, 1846.

439

Mackay et al. v. Dillon.

Sworn to before me, November 23d, 1825.
THEODORE HUNT, -Recorderof Land Titles.
M.- P. Leduc, being duly sworn, says he has truly translated
and read'he above to Baptiste Riviere.
M. P. LEDUC.
THEODORE HUNT, Recorder of Land Titles.
Pierre Chouteau, senior, being duly' sworn, as relates to the St.
Louis commons, sayg, thathe came to this town about six months fier
the foundation of the same, and from that, time he, of his knowledge,
knows that the commons was recognized and allowed by the different lieutenant-governors, is well French as Spanish ; and he further says, that as the town enlarged, there were meetiigs.held of the
inhabitants at the lieutenant-governor's, for the urpose of enlarging the commons. This was done more than once, and, as it was
determined onat said meetings, the fence was removed, so 'as to
enlarge the same for the use of the inhabitants of- said town of St.
Louis ; and he further stys, all land lying between the common field
fence (wrcepting the ancient concession) and the river was considered
as commons for the use of the inhabitants of St. Louis. He, this
deponent, further says, that about twelve years'ago he understood
that Madame Laquaifee had 4 lot at the upper part of the town,
adjoining the half moon battery, but before that time he never heard
of such a claim, and he, of his knowledge, knows it never was
possessed or occupied by any person before or at the time the
chapge of government took place from France to the United States.
PRE. CHOUTEAU.
Sworn -to befobmTe, November 24th 1825.
S THEODORE HUNT, Recorder of Land Titles.
See Hunt's minutes, book No. 3, pages 84 and 85-.
Joseph Papen, being produced by Baptiste Douchonquette,
was duly sworn, and says that he was born in the town of St.
Louis, and is forty-five years of age, and has always lived in said
town of St. Louis ; that to the knowledge of this deponent there
was no inclosure or common field lots below the town of St. Louis.
This deponent further says, that he is the grandson of Veuve Chouteau, the mother of ;Auguste Chouteau, and recollects perfectly
well, that, when a small boy, the hands of the then commandant drove the hands of his grandmother from off the land which his
grandmother- claimed, below the town of St. Louis, called the
Little Prairie ; and further this deponent says, he never heard df
the claims of Ortes, and Cambras, and Gervais, that is 'said was
situated in this same prairie.
JOSEPH PAPIN.
Sworn to belore me, August 29th, 182E.
THEODORE HUNT, Recorder of Land Titles.

440

SUPREME COURT.
Mackay et al. v. Dillon.

Francis Caillon, being duly sworn, says he has resided in the
town of St. Louis for fifty-eight years, and to his knowledge there
never was an inclosure in the Little Prairie south of the tpwn of
St. Louis. About thirty-five years ago, to the knowledge of this
deponent, Madame Chouteau sent a man, Dubois, to cultivate the
land she claimed in the said Little Prairie, and to the knowledge
of this deponent, the then citizens of St. Louis complained to
Perez, the then commandant [- ] forbid that any inclosures or
cultivation should be made there, and they immediately desisted ;
and this deponent says, he never has heard -of any attempt to cultivate or inclose and of the said Little Prairie, south of the town
of St. Louis. This deponent further says, that he was well acquainted with Ortes, and Cambras, and Gervais, and, to his knowledge, they, nor neither of them, ever did inclose, or cultivate, or
claim any land in this said Little Prairie, south of the-town of St.
Louis.

his

FRANCOIS + CAILLON.
mark.

Sworn to before me, August 29th, 1825.
THEODORE HUNT, Recorder of Land Titles.
Baptiste Domin6, being duly sworn, says he has resided in the
town of St. Louis for forty-five years, being occasionally absent
for three or four months at a time, and, to his knowledge, during
these forty-five years, there never was any land inclosed or cultivated in the Little Prairie, south of the town of St. Louis.
his

BAPTISTE + DOMINE.
mark.

Sworn to before me, August 29th, 1825.
THEODORE HUNT, Recorder of Laund Titles.
Regis Vasseur, being duly sworn, says he has resided in the
town of St. Louis for forty-eight years, and during the whole of
this time the Little Prairie, south of the town of St. (Louis) belonged tQ the inhabitants of said town as a commons, and during
this time never was cultivated or inclosed.
his
REGIS + VASSEUR.
mark.

Sworn to before me, August 29th, 1825.
THEODORE HUNT, Recorder of Lqnd Titles.
that he has translated
Horatio Cozens, being duly sworn,
and explained truly the above depositions to Joseph Papen, Francois Caillon, Baptiste Domine, and Regis Vasseur, respectively,
HORATIO COZENS.
before they swore to the same.
Sworn to beforeme, August 29th, 1825.
THEODORE HUNT, Recorder of Land Titles.
See Hunt's minutes, book No. 2, pages 171 - 173.

JANIUARY TERM, 1846.
Mckay

441

et &I. v. Dillon.
RECORDER'S OFFICE,

St. Louis, .Missouri, 5th Sept., 1839.
I certify the fbregoing, in part, to be truly copied from the
original documents on file, and the balance to be truly transcribed
from the books all on file and of record in this office, beihg a full
and complete transcript of all that appears of record in this office in
relation to the claim of ihe inhabitants of the town of St. Louis to
F. R. CONWAY,
a common.
United States Recorderof.Lang Titles
in the State of .issouri.
To the admission of all this evidence the plaintiff objected, which
objection the court overruled ; to which decision of the court
overruling the objectk of plkiiff, and'admitting sai4 documents in
evidence, plaintiff excepted, and prayed. that said exception be allowed, signed, and sealed by the court here and made part of the
record in this cause.
EZRA HUNT. [SEAL.]
Signed,
6. Act of Congress passed January 27th, 1831. (4 Lit. &
Brown's ed. 435.)
This act declared,

-That

the:United States do hereby re-

linquish to the inhabitants of the several towns or villages of Portage
des Sioux, St. Charles, St. Louis, &c., &c., all the right, title and
interest of the United States in and to the town or village lots, out

lots, common field lots, and commons, in, adjoining, and belonging
to the said towns or villages, confirmed to them respectively by the
first section of the act of Congress, entitled, &c., paissed on the
13th day of June, 1812."
In the course of the trial a transcript of a record and deed wereoffer~d in evidence on the part of the defendant, and objected to by
the plaintiff. The court sustained-the objection, to which opinion
the defendant excepted ; but the Supreme Court having 'no jrisdiction of the matter, it is unnecessary to notice it further.
7. Evidence of Pascal Cerre.
I have resided
"Pascal Cerre, being sworn, on his oath stated
in St. Louis.I may say since 1787. I was men fourteen years of
age. I was a ay before then, - and was in St. Louis before then,
but cahnot say that I remember any thing excgpt since 1787. I
was pretty familiar with the tract of land called St. Louis commons,
since 1787,. and also acquainted with Mr. Mackiy's claim, from the
time he built his brick house. The land lying south of the Chouteau
mill tract was owned by the inhabitants of St. Louis, or mosf of
them, as a common. I knew the situation of the Barriere deb
Noyers field, - but not the situation of the common fence in relation thereto. I cannot tell whether common fence was vest of
The common fence began at the windmill,
Mackay's claim.
which*is at the upper end of the town of St. Louis. at Menard
56
VOL. IV.

442

SUPREME COURT.
Mackay et al. v. Dillon.

house, betwixt the windmill and ox-mill, and run up in a western
direction, passing by a little mound south of Ashley's premises to
the front line of the forty arpents tract-; then south along that linb,
near Madame Leioux, now Colonel Johnson's premises ; then took
a west direction towards the mill-pond, and went by a place used to
be called Motard's plantation, now
from. then it went
west to the front line of the forty arpents in Prairie des Noyers, in a
southeast direction from Fontaine's house, and running south passed
by the spring in A. Gamble's, now McDonald's, plantation, ten or
twenty feet east of said spring ; then in a southern direction to the
northeast corner of the Carondelet common field ; and thence I
heard the Carondelet fence joined in, and went to the River des
Peres. From the northeast corner of the Carondelet field, the
fence wetit eastwardly to
now the shot-factory. -The house
where Mackay lived and died is now the convent. The land that
lies west, to wit, the land described in the United States survey as Mackay's claim, between the line there designated and
dotted as front boundary of St. Louis commons and Motard, on
the west of said claim, was used as common, as well as the balance
of the common. Motard's place is in the Cul-de-Sac, north of the
fence. Where the spring of Motard it and his-house was north of
the fence ; and Motard had no improvement south of the fence.
The common fence never went to Stokes's place before it turned
south, but went more to the left. There was no improvement south
of Motard's fence ; but all was brush and commons. The westem part of the United States survey was always used as commons
for grazing, to separate the cattle from the common fields, which
were open. The inhabitants of the village got their wood on said
land used as commons, when there was timber on it. My father
did so. The land included in Mackay's survey, which was shown
to witness, was used as commons until 1796 until the reign of
Zenon Trudean, when they ceased fencing the same as commons.
It was continued to be used as wood and pasturage from that till
1804, and since. I believe that after 1796 all the country around
St. :Louis was used as common and indiscriminately, whether
within or without the limits of where the commons fence stood.
I went within the commons to get horses and hunt while the fence
stood. There were plantations on the bank of the Mississippi, Brazeau, Tayon, and others. Brazeau, Tayon, and others had
separate fences, including all their cultivated ground, but did not go
west Turther than the Carondelet road, which run then more easterly
than now.. My father had property within the commons, seventytwo arpents ; he had a fence on it at all times until now. Vasquez
had formerly a. cabin in the.conimons, east of A. Gamble's, in the
commons where Carr Lane now owns. A negro man lived in the
cabin, and had a small inclosure, and was called Benete's spring, lafontaine "d Benite. He lived there in 1788 and 1789. 'I don't

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

443

Mackay et at. v. Dillon.

know whether he had a concession. Brazeau, Joseph; had property within the commons, and his fence there, his family and
stock. Settlement, I knew of none but the settlement the negro
lived in, within the commons, west of the Carondelet road. The
other plantations went no. further west than the Carondelet road.
The Soulard propeiy, which came from my father, went back to
the Carondelet road, and no farther. I do not know that horses
were continued to be pastured at liberty, except on the commons.
I only heard of Mackay's claim till about twenty-four or twenty-five
years ago, when he went and built his house. I have heard of Marie
Nicol claim, which went by the name of Lefepre de Marie Ni Colle.
It is in the commons on the northeast end of the commons, west of'
William Russell's, or rather northwest. The common fence was in
good order in 1787. In 1782 I was in St. Louis, but can[not] say
whether the fence was there."
8. Two deeds from the city of-St. Louis to Dent and Dillon
respectively. The deed to Dillon was dated on the 7th of April,
1836.
To the admitting of which in evidence plaintiffs objected ; which
objection the court overruled ; to which judgment of the court overruling the objection of plaintiffs, and admitting said documents in
evidence, plaintiffs excepted.
Here the defendant closed this
cause.
Thereupon defendant moved the court to give the jury the following instruction : -,.

"1That the claim of the inhabitants of the town of St. Louis to
commons, as exhibited upon the copy of the claim given in evidence, was confirmed by the act of Congress of the 13th June,
1812, to the inhabitants of said town according to the claim, and
that the title to the land so confirmed is a valid title against the title
of the plaintiffs under the confirmation, by the act of Congress"of
the 4th July, 1836."
Given, - to the giving of which instruction plaintiffs objected;
which objection the court overruled ; to which judgment of the
court overruling plaintiff's objection, and giving the said instructions, plaintiffs excepted ; and thereupon plaintiffs moved the court
to give the jury the following instructions :" That Mackay's survey of common, preserving Mackay's claim
on the northeast part thereof, is conclusive that the claim of commons did not extend over Mackay's claim, as between those claiming the common and Mackay or his heirs. That Mackay's survey
of commons, including his claim, is good evidence to go to the
jury that the claim of commons did not extend over and 'cover
Mackay's claim. That the deed from the city to Dent conveyed
no title under which defendant may justify in this action. Tha- the
deed from the city to Dillon conveyed no title under which defendhnt may justify in this action."

444

SUPREME COURT.
Mackay et al. v. Dillon.

Refused, - all and each of which instructions the court refused to
give ; to which judgment of the court overruling plaintiff's motion,
and refusing to give the said instructions, or any of them, plaintiffs
excepted. These were all the instructions asked for, ortgiven,
or refused. And plaintiffs pray that their said several exceptions
herein contained and set forth may be allowed, signed, and sealed
by the court here, and made part of the record in this cause.

EZRA HUNT. [SEAL.]
The other bill of exceptions is in the words and figures following,
to wit :"ISABELLA

MACKAY ET AL. V. PATRICK
"

"ST.

M.

DILLON.

.jectment.

CHARLES CIRCUIT COURT :

" Be it remembered that plaintiffs moved the court for reasons
filed, to wit: " ISABELLA MACKAY ET AL. V. PATRICK

M.

DILLON.

"1
Fjectment.
c Plaintiffs move the court to set aside the verdict rendered in
this cause, and grant them a new trial, because, "1 1st. The court misinstructed the jury.
"c2d. Because the court refused to give the instructions prayed
for by plaintiffs.
" 3d. Because the jury found against law and evidence.
"14th. Because the jury found against the weight of evidence.
" 5th. Because the court admitted evidence that ought to have
been excluded.
" 6th. The allusions and instructions of the court operated as a
surprise upon the plaintiffs.
" Isabella Mackay et al., plaintiffs, by their attorney, Bryan
.Mullanphy, moved the court to. set aside the verdict in this
cause, and grant them a new trial, which motion the court overruled; to which jtidgment of the court overruling said motion, and
refusing to set aside said verdict, and grant plaintiffs a new trial,
plaintiffs- excepted; all evidence and matters in the cause being
preserved in a previous bill' of exceptions in, this cause, plaintiffs
pray .that this exception now here taken be allowed, signed, and
sealed by the court here, and made part of the record in this cause.

"EZRA HUNT. [SEAL.]"

Under these instructions of the court, the jury found a verdict
for the defendant ; and upon the bills of exceptions the case was
carried up to the Supreme Court of Missouri, which, on the 24th
of May, 1841, affirmed the judgment of the court below.
To review this opinion and judgment, a writ of error brought the
case to this court.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

445

Mackay et al. v. Dillon.

The cause'was argued by Xir. Lawless, for.the plaintiff in error,
and ,Mr.
Gamble and .Mr. Bates, for the defendant in error. The
great but necessary length of the statement by the reporter renders it impossible to report these arguments, which were printed,
and occupied forty pages.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The record before us is brought here by a writ of error to the
Supreme Court of Missouri, 'under the twenty-fifth section of
the judiciary act. The action was an ejectment for land, to
'which each party claimed title by virtue of an act of Congress confirming interfering Spanish claims.
The evidence on part of the plaintiffs having been introduced in
the State court of original jurisdiction, the defendant offered to
read copies of certain documents and depositi6ns taken in 1806
and 1825, certified by the United States recorder of land titles
in the State of Missouri, as truly copied from the originals on file
and of record in his office. These were objected to, on the part
of the plaintiffs, as incompetent to go the jury ; the objection was
oyerruled, the evidence admitted, and an exception taken. And
the first question is, was thp evidence thus offered competent ? It
is set. out in the report of the case, and need not be further described. As the objection draws in question the nature and character of the evidence, it is deemed proper to state here what they
are ; legs for the purpose of disposing of the ruling of-the court on
this point, than as preparatory to the decision of others that follow,
each ;nvolving the effect and character of the evidence more or
less.
By the third article of the treaty of 1803, by which Louisiana
was acquired, the inhabitants were 'to -be maintained and protected
in the free enjoyment of their property in the ceded territory. To
carry the treaty into execution, -s re-'arded titles and claims to
land, Congress, by the act of March 2d, 1805, provided that a
board of commissioners should be appointed by.the President, and
also a recorder of lani titles ; which was .accordingly done. - The
board for LouisianA (now Missouri and Arkansas) sat at St. Louis,
-as at that place the recorder's office was established, and is yet
kept.
By the fourth section of the act, all those asserting claims to land
founded on concessions or other assumptions of right to obtain titles from the United States, and which claims originated with the
French or Spanish governments prior to the 20th of December,
1803, wete required, on or before the 1st day of March, 1806,
to deliver to the recorder written notices of claim, stating the nature. and extent thereof, together with a plat of the tract claimed,
and written evidences tending to establish the right. The notice,
plat, and evidences were to be recorded -in books to be kept by
VOL. IV.

LL

.446

SUPREME COURT.
Mackay et al. v. Dillon.'

the recorder for that purpose. This recorded notice and evidence
formed the foundation in eich case for the action of the board ; although other evidence might be required by it, or be adduced by
the claimant. The board was to decide in a summary way, according to juStice and equity, on all claims thus filed.
It was directed to appoint'a clerk, whose duty it should be to
enter in a book full and correct minutes of the proceedings and decisions of the board ; together with the evidence on which each
decision was made ; the book, on the dissolution of the board, was
to be deposited vith the recorder of land titles ; but the clerk was
first to make two copies, one of which he was to forward to the
Secretary of the Treasury, and the other was to be deposited with
the surveyor-general in said district. According to this law, the
inhabitants of St. Louis filed their notice of claim, plat, and evidences, in 1806, asking to have the town common confirmed to
them.
By the first section of the act of 1812 (June 13th), Congress
confirmed the claim to commons adjoining -and belonging to St.
Louis ; with similar claims made by other towns. But no extent
or boundaries were given to show what land was granted ; nor is
there any thing in the act of 1812, from which a court of justice
can legally declare that the land set forth by the survey, and proved
as commons by witnesses, in 1806, is the precise land Congress
granted ; in other words, the act did not adopt the evidence laid
before the board for any purpose ; and the boundaries of claims
thus -confirmed were designedly (as we suppose) left-open to the
settlement of the respective claimants, by litigation in the courts of
justice, or otherwise.
The confirmation extended to town lots, out lots, common field
lots, and commons in, adjoining, or belonging to the several towns
or villages. And the act of 1812 made it the duty of the principal
deputy-surveyor of the territory, as sbon thereafter as might be,.
to survey, or cause it to be done, and marked, the out-boundary
lines of the several towns, so 'as to include the out lots, common
field lots, and commons ; of this out-boundary survey, he was to
make plats, and transmit them to the surveyor-general, who was to
forward copies to the commissioner of the general land-office and
to the United States recorder of land titles in Missouri. The object of this proceeding, on part of the government, was to sever
the confirmed claims in- a mass from the remaining lands of the
United States, and others outside of the boundary, and nothing
more.
The act of May 26th, 1824, supplemental to that of 1812, authorized further proofs to be taken before the recorder in regard to
town lots, out lots, and common field lots, confirmed by the act of
1812, as respected inhabitation, cultivation, or possession, and the
boundaries and extent of each claim ; but the provision does not

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

447

Mackay et al. v. Dillon.

extend in terms to the commons. In virtue of this act, however,
the evidence foind in the record, and taken" before the recorder in
1825, was filed in the recorder's office further to establish the extent of the town commons..
The objection taken in the State Circuit Court was to the whole
evidence certified from the recorder's office, without discriminaiion,
and the question turns on its competency for any purpose.
The powers of the Supreme Court a-e limited in cases coming up
from the State courts, under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary
act, to questions of law, where the final judgment or decree draws
in question the validity of 'a treaty or statute of the United States,
&c., or where tbeir construction is drawn in question, or an authority exercised under them ; and as the admission of -evidence to
establish the mere fact of boundary in regard to the exkent of grant
cannot raise a question involving either the validity or construction
of an act of Congress, &c., this court has no jurisdiction to consider and revise the decision of a State court, however erroneous
it may be in admitting the evidence to establish the fact. But
when evidence is admitted as competent for this purpose, and it is
sought to give it effect for other purposes which do involve questions giving this court jurisdiction, then the decisions of State
courts on the effect of such evidence may be fully.considered
here, and their judgments reversed or affirmed, in a similar mianner
as if a like question had arisen in a supreme court of error of a
State, when reversing the proceedings of inferior courts of original
jurisdiction, - and on this principle we are compelled to act in the
present suit, when dealing with the instruction given on behglf of
the defendant.
2. The following instructions were next asked on part of the
plaintiffs, and refused: -I I That- Mackay's survey of common,
preserving Mackay's claim on the northeast part thereof, is conclusive that the claim of commons did not extend over -Mackay's
claim, as between those claiming the common and Mackay or his
heirs. That Mackay's survey of commons, including his claim, is
good evidence to' go to the jury, that the claim of commons did not
extend over and cover Mackay's claim."
The survey referred to was the ort6 made in 1806, at the instance
of the inhabitants of St. Louis, for the purpose of .presenting their
claim to commons in due form to the board.- It was in -its nature
a private survey, not binding on the United States ; and to avoid
any implication to the contrary, the act of February 28th, 1806,
was passed, which extended the powers of the surveyor-general of
Louisiana over the land in bontroversy, and made it his duty to appoint principal deputies ; over these, the, commissioners at St.
Louis had power given to them, by which surveys could be ordered
of private claims. 'When the board desired surveys to be made,
they ordered them to be executed at the expense of the party in-

448

SUPREME COURT
Mackay et al. z. Dillon.

terested. And the law declares, that every such survey, as well
as every other survey, by whatever authority heretofore executed
(those of legal and complete titles only excepted), shall he held
and considered as private surveys only ; and all tracts of land, the
titles to, which may be ultimately confirmed by Congress, shall,
prior to the issuing of patents, be resurveyed, if judged necessary,
under the authority of the surveyor-general. It follows, that Mackay's survey of 1806 had no influence on the title of either party,
and that the instructioils asked were properly refused.
3. The following instruction was asked for, and given, on part
of, the defendants : -"That
the claim of the inhabitants of the
town of St. Louis to commons, as exhibited upon the copy of the
claim given in evidence, was confirmed, by the act of Congress of
the 13th of June, ,1812, to the inhabitants of said town, according
to the claim, and that the title to the land so confirmed, is a valid
title against the title of the plaintiffs under the confirmation, by the
act of Congress of the 4th of July, 1836."
It assumes, as matter of law, that the act of 1812 adopted Mackay's
survey, and the evidence -given in its support ; that they are part
of the grant, as to its extent and legal effect ; and conclusive as
against the plaintiff' confirmation. On the trial, both parties admitted that the land in aispute lies within the survey of 1806, and therefore the instruction took the case from the jury, and cut off all
proof to the contrary of this being the true boundary ; whereas
the survey was a mere private act, as already stated, and concluded
nothing for either side; and in holding the contrary the State
courf.rred, and for which the judgment must be reversed.
By'what description of surveys the United States are bound,
and those claiming title under them governed, we have already,
during the present term, been callel on to decide, in the case of
Jourdan v. l3arrett (ante, p. 169)i and need not repeat. Nor is
it necessary to inquire here what the effect of a legal survey of the
St. Louis common is, as the question has been directly presented
in the cause of Les Bois v. Bramell, heard and decided con'currently with this, and on the same arguments, and to the opinion in
which, in this respect, we refer.

