JANUARY TERM, 1846.

327

Rankin et al. v. Hoyt.

Triplett and Neale, and that is explained by the evidence cited,
does not conflict with that decided by this court, if the latter be
limited to notes discounted by the banks, and the former applies to
all other notes payable in the District. In other words, that the law
merchant should be modified by the usage only as to demand and
notice on notes discounted by the banks. And it would seem, from
the decisions above cited, the usage to demand payment the day after
the third day of grace had its origin with the banks, and has not been
extended, since 1818, to paper not discounted by them. On all
other paper, a demand is made on the third .day of grace, and the
"1usage is to extend the protest on the day on which the notice is
given, stating the demand to have been made on the last day of
grace, and the protest to be dated the same day on which the notice
is dated." Nbwa demand and protest on the last day of grace, and
a notice on the following day., come strictly within the law merchant.
And this was" the diligence used in the present case, except the
formal date of the protest on the day of the notice. No confusion
can, therefore, arise froum this'general commercial usage, as it.conforms to the established law. No inconvenience has arisen, it is
supposed, from the bank usage in the District, which has been so
long and so firmly established.
No defects in the declaration are perceived, and none have been
pointed out to us, which are not cured by the v rdict.
Upon the whole, we affirm the judgment of the Circuit Court,
with costs.

-ALEXANDEF, RANxiN, CUNNINGHAz Sxri5H, GEoiRG C. C. THUEGER,
AND .'OHN McCALL, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JESSE HoYT.
Under the act of 1832, the collector had power to direct wool to be appraised, for
the purpose of ascertaining whether or not it was entitled to be imported free
from duty ; the exemption depending upon its value not exceeding eight cents
per pound at the place of exportation.
Although it was necessary for the collector to request the appraisers to act, and no
such request appears in the record, yet the legal presumption is, that the collector
and appraisers-did their duty, he requesting their action and they complying.
And the collector's subsequent adoption of the proceedings of the appraisers is tantamount to having requested them.
It was the duty of the collector to be guided by such an appraisement, and a spbsequent verdict ofa jury, finding that the value of the wool was under eight cents
per pound, cannot be considered as rendering his acts illegal.
The importer bad a right to,appeal to 'another board of appraisers, differently constituted, and if he did not choose to resort to them, he cannot, with much grace,
afterwards complain that an over-estimate existed.

THis case came up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
It was an action brought by the plaintiffs in error, transacting

a28

SUPREME'COURT.
Rankin et al. v. Hoyt.

business as copartners, in the city of New York, under the name
of Smith, Thurger, & Co., for the return of duties which they
alleged to haver been illegally exacted, upon several importations
of wool, by Hoyt, the collector of New York.
The acts of Congress which bear upon the case are the following.
By the act of the 14th of July, 1832, entitled " An act to alter
and amend the several acts imposing duties on imports," by the
first clause of the second section (4 Lit. & Brown's ed. 583), itis
enacted, -"
That -wool unmanufactured, the value whereof, at
the place of exportation, shall not exceed eight cents per pound,
shall be imported free of duty ;. and if any wool so imported shall
be fine wool, mixed with dirt or other material, and thus reduced
in v.alu "to eight cents per pound or under, the appraisers shall appraise said wool at such price as in their opinion it would have cost
had it not been so mixed, and a duty thereon shall be charged in
conformity with such appraisal ; on wool unmanufactured, the value
whereof, at -the place of exportation, shall exceed eight cents,
shall be levied four cents per pound, and forty per centum ad valorem."
By the seventh section of the same act, it is enacted, That
in all cases where the duty which now is, or hereafter may be, imposed on any goods, wares, Dr merchandise imlorted into the
United Sftates shall, bylaw, be regulated by, or be directed to be
estimated or levied upon, the value of the square yard, or of any
other quantity or parcel thereof ; and in all cases where there is
or shall be imposed any ad valorem rate of duty on any goods,
wares, or merchandise imported into the United States, it shall be
the duty of the collector within whose district the.-same shall be
imported or entered to cause the actual value thereof, at the time
purchased,.and place from which the same shall have been imported
into the United States, to be appraised, estimated, and ascertained,
and the number of such yards, parcels, or-quantities, and such actual
value of every of them as the case may require ; and it shall, in
every such case, be the duty of the appraisers of the United
States, and every of them, and every other person who shall act
as such appraiseri by all the reasonable ways or means in his or
their power, to ascertain,estimate, and appraisethe true and aetual
value, any invoice or affidavit thereto to the contrary notwithstanding, of the said- goods, wares, or fiierchandise, at the time purchised, and place from whence the same shall have been imported
into the United States, and the number of such yards, parcels, or
quantities, and such actual value of them as the case may require ;
and all such goods, wares, and merchandise, being manufactures
of wool, or whereof wool shall be a component part, which shall be
imp6rted into the United Stetes in an unfinished condition, shall, in
every such appraisal, be taken, deemed, and estimated by the said

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

329

Rankin et al. v. Hoyt.

appraisers, lud every of them, and every person who shall act as
such appraiser, to have.been, at the time purchased, and place
from whence the same were imported into the United States, as of
great actual value as if the same bad been entirely finished : Prbvided, that, in all cases where any goods, wares, or merchandise
subject to ad valorem duty, or whereon the duty is or shall be by
law regulated by, or be directed to be estimated or levied uponj
the value of the square yard, or any other quantity or parcel thereof, shall have been imported into the United States from a country
other than that jn which the same were manufactured or produced,
tfie appraisers shall value the same at the current value thereof, at
the-time of purchase, before such last exportation to. the United
States, in the country where the same may have been originally
manufactured or produced."

-.

And by the eighth section it is further enacted,-" That it shall
be lawful-for the appraisers to call bef6re them, and examine upen
oath, any owner, importer, consignee, or other person, touching
any matter or thing which they may deem material in ascertaining
the true value of any merchandise imported, and to require the production on oath to the collector,, or to any permanent appraiser, of
any letters, accouuits, or invoices, in his possession, relating to the
ame ; for which purpose they are hereby kuthorized to administer
oaths ; and if any person so called shall fail to attend, or shall decline to answer, or to produce such papers when so required, he
shall forfeit and pay to the UnitedStates fifty dollars ; and if such
person be the owner, importer, or consignee, the appraisement
which the said appraisers may make of the goods, wares, or merchandise shall be final and conclusive, any act of Congress to the
contrary notwithstanding ; and any person who shall swear falselyon such examination shall be deemed, guilty of perjury, and if he
be the owner, importer, or consignee, the merchandise shall be forfeited."
. By the third section of the act of the 28th of May, 1830 (4 Lit. &
Brown's ed. 409), entitled " An act for the more effectual collection
of tneimpost duties," it is enacted, -" That if the owner, importer,
or consignee, or agent for any goods appraised shall consider any
appraisement made by the appraisers, or other persons designated,
too high, he may apply to the collector, in writing, stating the reasons for his opinion, and having rade oath that the said appraisement is higher than the actual cost and proper charges on which
duty is to be charged, and also that he verily believes it is higher
than the current value of the said goods, including said charges at
the place of exportation, the collector shall designate one merchant
skilled in the value of such goods, and the owner, importer, consignee, or agent may designate another, both of whom shall be
citizens of the United States, who, if they cannot agree in an appraisement, may designate an umpire, who shall also be a citizen
vor,. iv.
42
BB

SUPREME COURT.

330

Rankin et al. v. Hoyt.

of the United States, and when they, or a majority of them, shall
have agreed, they shall report the result to the collector, and if
their appraisements shall not agree with that of the United States'
appraisers, the collector shall decide between them."
This last enactment was not repealed by the act of 1832, and it
was under this last act, as modified by the compromise act of 1833
(4 Lit. & Brown's ed. 629), that the cause came on to be tried at
the November term, 1842.
The plaintiffs in error made three several importations of wool
in the year 1838, viz.: April,

by the Sarah Sheafe, 25 bales.

May,
November,

"
"

"1

Josephine,

"c

Renown,

21
19

c
c

The whole of the duties paid upon these several importations
were claimed in this one action.
The jury found a special verdict of the following facts, viz. That the plaintiffs in error were copartners ; that Hoyt was collector of the customs ; that the three importations above mentioned were made and the original invoices produced ; that in each
invoice the value of the wool was stated to be seven and one half
cents per pound ; that the wool was all unmanufactured ; and then
proceeded as follows.
"And the jurors aforesaid, upon their oaths aforesaid, further find,
that upon the importation of the said three several invoices of wool
as aforesaid, and upon the several entries thereof, the said wool
was examined and appraised by the appraisers of the United States
for the collection district of New York, and that the said appraisers
did, upon such examination, appraise the gaid wool, and each and
every part and parcel thereof, as of the value, at the places of exportation thereof, of nine cents per pound ; which appraisements
were, by said appraisers, re orted to the collector, and from which
said appraisements, or either of them, no appeal was made by the
said plaintiffs.
" And the jurors aforesaid, uponi their oath aforesaid, further say,
that the said appraisers found the said several parcels of wool to be
unmixed and of the same quality.
" And the jurors aforesaid, upon their oath aforesaid, further find,
that the said collector claimed and insisted that the said wool was
subject to the payment of duties to the United States according to
the valuation of the appraisers, so reported to him, and refused to
deliver the said wool to the plaintiffs except upon payment by
tner of the duties claimed by the defendant to bt due thereon as
aforesaid."
The special verdict then went on to find that the plaintiffs ii
error insisted that the wool was free from and not subject to the
payment of any duties to the United States, and protested against

JANUARY TERM,

1846.

331

Rankin et al. v. Hoyt.

the right of Hoyt to require payment of any duties ; that they paid,
under this protest and a notice that they would bring an action
to-recover it back, the sum of $ 1,909"93, and that the interest
thereon, from the time of payment until the 29th of November,
1842, amounted to $ 577"22, the aggregate of the principal and
interest being $2,487-15 ; that the duties charged by Hoyt were
calculated and charged upon the value of the wool, as appraised
by the appraisers, and that the wool mentioned in the three several
invoices, and each and every part and parcel thereof, at the place
of exportation, was of the value of seven and one half cents per
pound and no more.
Upon this special verdict, the court, on the 23d of December,
1843, ordered a judgment to be entered in favor of Hoyt, the defendant, and a writ of error brought the case up to this court.
The cause wa argued by .Jlr.Dudley Selden for the plaintiffs
in error, and .Mr. .Mason (Attorney-General), for the defendant
in error.

Mr. Selden made the following points.
First. Under the facts found by the special verdict, the plaintiffs were entitled to judgment.
Second. The power vested in the officers of the revenue to
appraise the value of goods subject to duty does not authorize
them to decide whether goods are or are not subject to duty.
Third. If the act of July 14th, 1832, " to amnend the several
acts imposing duties on imports," has extended the power, under
certain circumstances, in regard to the article of unmanufactured
wool, the finding in this case shows that those circumstances did
not exist, and therefore the appraisement is inoperative.
Fourth. The power given to the appraisers by section second of
that act, in relation to unmanufactured wool invoiced at eight cents
per pound or less, is confined to the inquiry whether the value
thereof has been diminished by being mixed with other material.
The seventh section of the act applies alone to goods subject to duty.
Fifth. If the appraisers acted without authority an appeal
from their decision was unnecessary.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
The right of the plaintiffs to recover in this case, and consequent-*
ly to have a reversal of the judgment rendered in the Circuit Court,
must depend on the legality of the course pursued by the defendant.
No question has been made by counsel, that an action in this
particular form cannot be maintained against a collector of the
customs, if the course pursued by him was illegal, or that the prowriting ; points
test against paying the duties should have been in"
which have arisen in similar controversies' and led to special legisla-

332

SUPREME COURT.
Rankin et al. v. Hoyt.

tion by Congress, but not being made here, it is not necessary now
to consider them. See on them Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Peters,
139, 158 ; Bond v. Hoyt, 13 Peters, 267 ; Carey v. Curtis, 3
Howard, 236 ; Swartwout v. Gihon, 3 Howard, 110; Act of
February 26th, 1845.
The illegality imputed to the proceedings of the collector is
supposed to have consisted in this ; that he possessed no power,
in cases of this kind, to call on the appraisers to estimate the value
of the wool ; and if he did possess it, that they do not appear to
have acted here by his request. These objections, if well sustained, are material, because, by the appraisal, the true value of"
the wool was. reported to be nine cents per pound, and then, by the
act of July 14th, 1832, a duty on it was " levied of four cents per
pound, and forty per cetum ad valorem." (4 Lit. & Brown's ed.
583.) Whereas if the appraisal was unauthorized, and the invoice
should have been the only guide, the value of the wool was but
seven and a half cents per pound, and by the same act it ought
then to have been allowed to " be imported free."
The legal power of the collector to call on, the appraisers to
estimate the value of this wool rests on the construction which ought
to be given to the second and seventh sections of the act aforesaid,
both of which are extracted at length in the statement of this case.
The plaintiffs contend, that the seventh section, -authorizing an
appraisal where the duty may be regulated by the value, or imposed
at a rate ad valorem, is not .applicable to any importations which,
like these, if looking to the invoice alone, are not dutiable ; and
that the second section, regulating the appraisement of wool
"mixed with dirt or other material," is the only one applicable to.
wool which, like this, was valued so low in the invoice as to be
free ; ,but did not in this case authorize the action of the appraisers
in respect-to these particular importations, as thesei by the verdict
of the jury, afterwards, were found not to have been so mixed.
In the first place, we so far coincide with the views of the plaintiffs, as to be satisfied that the second section does not justify the
course pursued by the defendant in the present case. But we
dissent from the argument, that it is the only section applicable to
imPoxtations like these, and hold that the seventh section, though
open to different constructions on this subject, is plainly susceptible
of one which embraces it ; and that the spirit of the section, as well
as of the whole system of appraisement under the revendoe laws,
seems not only to justify, but require, the application of its provisions
to importations like those now under consideration. It ought, then,
to be so construed ; since this court has recently decided, that acts
imposing duties are not, as has often been done, to be construed
strictly against the government, like penal laws, but-so as" most effectually to accomplish the intention of the legislature in passing
them." Taylor et al. v, United States,.3 Howard, 210.

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

33

Rankin et al. v. Hoyt.
By the words of -this last section. so far as material to the present inquiry, it is provided, that if the duty "1imposed on any goods,
wares, or merchandise" " shall by law be regulated by, or be directed to be estimated or levied upon, the value of the square yard,
or of any other quantity or parcel thereof, and in all cases where
there is or shall be imposed any ad valorem rate of duty," &c., '" it
shall be the duty of the collector" " ' to cause the actual value
thereof, at the time purchased," &c., " to be appraised, estimated,
and ascertained," &c., by appraisers.
Under the act of May 19th, 1828, a duty partly specific and
partly ad valorem h-d been imposed on all wool imported from
abroad. No doubt can exist, that the power to have appraised the
value of any wool, imported under that act5 had it remained unaltered in 1838, would have existed in the colleetoi, because a
duty in all cases was imposed and was in some degree regulated by
the value, though it was not wholly an ad valorem rate of duty.
But by the act of July 14th, 1332, an amendment was made in the
rate on one description of wool, so as to-admit it free, if 'its value
did not exceed eight cents per pound, and the argument for the
plaintiff is, that as such wool no longer paid an ad valorem duty,
the collector would no longer call on the appraisers.to estimate its
value. It is to be noticed, however, that this exemption did not
make wool, as an article, cease to be dutiable. Nor did it become,
after this change, any less important, in regulating the duty which
was proper to be imposed on any wool, to ascertain the true value
of it in all cases, so as to levy thereon four cents per pound
and forty per cent. ad valorem, if the value turn out to be above
eight cents per pound ; and nothing if at or below eight cents.
(See the first section, 4 Lit. & Brown's ed. 583.)
This act may then be considered to authorize the use of appraisers not merely when an article imported pays an ad valorem rate
of duty, but whenever the duty is regulated by the value ; or in
other words, as we construe the provision, whenever a duty may
exist or cease according to tha value, as well as whenever it may
increase or diminish, according to it. The language of the seventh
section is broad enough, under "this view, to justify the course that
was adopted by the collector in the present case. But, if we look
to the sphit of that section, and of the whole act of which it forms a
part, in respect to the policy both of employing appraisers and
disoriminating in the duties imposed on wool, any remaining dpubt
as to the propriety of considering this case as coming within the
seventh section must he removed. If the appraisers could not be
called on to estimate the true value of the wool, when imported at
low prices, but the' value in the invoice w3s alone to guide, the
revenue on all wool was manifestly liable, to be lost, or the treasury
greatly defrauded, by the article being put in the invoice at a price
below the actual. value, in order to introduce it free. Any inci-

334

SUPREME COURT.
Rankin et al. v. Hoyt.

dental protection, contemplated from the duty, to the growth of
finer and more valuable wools in this country, would also be thus
exposed to total defeat by the importation of this last- kind at a
valuation so low as to escape any duty whatever.
The utility of appraisers in such a case is even more apparent
and important than in most others, because the value of wool is
uncertain, fluctuating, and liable to be concealed by-many ingethe prices in the invoice, .end others
nious devices, -lowering
putting different qualities of wool in the same bale, or bringing it
in mixed with dirt and burrs. It is on this last account, and not,
as argued for the plaintiffs, because it is the only case in which the
appraisers were authorized to act in respect to wool, that the second section requires them, in estimating its value, if mixed, to appraise it as high as if not mixed. In like manner, the act of 1832,
as well as 1828, requires wool imported on the skin to be taxed
accolding to its "1weight'and value," as in other cases. And, instead of either'of these provisions appearing to exclude the use
of appraisers generally for ascertaining the true value of lowpriced wool, they both seem to contemplate or imply their employment in such imports, knowing that the duty was to be affected
or regulated by the value, and proceeding therefore merely to lay
down specific rules for ascertaining it in cases where the wool is
found to be mixed or on the skin.
It is not a little confirmatory of this view, that the act of August 30th, 1842, which imposes some duty on ll kinds of wool,
and thus confessedly authorizes an appraisement in every importation, repeats substantially the provisions in former acts for guiding
the appraisers in estimating the value of mixed wool; thus showing with absolute certainty that such provisions do not in other acts
exclude - or can probably in the present case be meant to exclude-the employment of appraisers in ascertaining the true
value of wool, however low it is put in the invoice, and however
unmixed it may be with other materials.
The only adjudged case which has been alluded to by the plaintiffs as supporting their views is that of Curtis v. Martin et al.,
3 Howard, 106.
There the article in question, being gunny-bags, had not, at the
time the duty was levied, been speci6ed in the tariff laws, as subject to any duty whtever, in any form or value. The effort by
the collector was to impose a duty on it under another name, such
as cotton bagging. But in the present case, the article in dispute
had been made by Congress dutiable'in express terms, and no kinds
of it were exempt unless of a particular value ; and the object and
the effect of the appraisement were not, as has been contended,
to make the article of wool dutiable, when it was not before dutiable by law, but to see whether a particular import of the article

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

335

Rankin et al. v. Hoyt.

was actually of so small value per pound as by law to be entitled
to exemption from duty.
The other leading objection urged in this case is more easily
disposed of. In saying that the appiaisers had no right to act without the previou3 request of the collector, and that no such request
appears in the evidence, nothing is stated beyond the truth. But,
in the absence of testimony to the contrary, the legal presumption
is, that the appraisers and collector both did their duty, he requesting their action, as by law he might, and they complying.
Beside this, it is conceded that he adopted their doings, and
such a subsequent ratification of them is undoubtedly tantamount
to having requested them. An. incidental exception taken in the
argument is, that as the jury have found the value in the invoice to
be correct, the collector could not be justified in following the
higher valuation of the appraisers. But an appraisal, made in a
proper case, must be followed, or the action of the appraisers
would be nugatory, and their appointment and expenses become
unnecessary. Tappan v. The United States, 2 Mason's Rt. 404.
The propriety of following it cannot in such case be impaired by
the subsequent verdict of the jury differing from it in amount, as
the verdict did not exist to guide the collector wheh the duty was
levied, but the appraisal did, and must justify him, or not only the
whole system of appraisement would become worthless, but a door
be opened to a new and numerous class of actions against collectors, entirely destitute of equity. We say destitute of it, because,
in case the importer is dissatisfied with the valuation made by the
appraisers, he is allowed, by the act of Congress of May 28th,
18:30, before payin g the duty, an appeal and further hearing before
another tribunal, constituted in part by persons of his own selection. (See second section, 4 Lit. & Brown's ed. 409.)
These.persons have been aptly denominated a species of "legislative referees "1 (2 Mason, 406) ; and if the importer does not
choose to resort to them, he cannot with much grace complain afterwards that any over-estimate existed.
, The judgment below is affirmed.

