JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

467

Aspden et al. v. Nixon etal.
ASPDEN AND OTHERS COMPLAINANTS, v.

NixoN

AND OTHERS, DEPEND-

ANTS.

Where a person domiciled in England died, leaving property both in England and
Pennsylvania, and the executor took out letters testamentary in both countries
in a buit in England against the Oxecutor by the administrator of a deceased
claimant, the parties were restricted tothe limits ofte country to which their
letters extended.
rhe executor -could not rightfally transmit the Pennsylvania asseLs to be distributed
by a foreign jurisdiction.
So, the administrator of the deceased claimant, acting under letters granted in Eng.
land, only represented .the intestate to the extent of these English letters, and
could not be known as a representative in Pennsylvania.
Two suits, therefore, one in England, between the executor and the administrator
of a deceased claimant, zeting under English letters, and the other in Pennsylvania, between the executor and another administrator of the claimant, acting
under Pennsylvpmia letters, are suits between different parties. And neither
the decree nor proceedings in the English suit are competent evidence in the
American suit. - The property In controversy is different in the two suits.
A judgment or decree set up as a bar by plea, or relied on as evidence by way of
estoppel, to be conclusive, must have been made,
.
1, -By a court-oF 6ompetentjurisctif-,
upon the same subject-matter.
2. Between the rmne parties.
3. For the same purpose.
On either ground, the evidence in the English suit isAlcomppetent to prove any
thing with regard to the Pennsylvania assets.
Although, in cases peculiarly circumstanced, one jurisdiction administering assets
may, as matter of comity, transmit them to a foreign jurisdiction, yet they cannot
be sent to England where a suit is pending in this country-for the American assets. A decree of the High Court of Chancery in England, purporting to'distribute assets so situated, would be treated as void for want of jurisdiction.
The Circuit Court of the United States, sitting in Pennsylvania, is bound by the
same rules which govern the local tribunals of that State, and would require a
devisee to give security to refund in case a debt should afterwards be proved
against the testator. Other provisions of the laws a. that State would also embarrass a court in exercising the comity referred to.
Under the influence of similar laws, the courts of the several States have been so
much restrained as to render the exercise of comity among each other little
more than a barren theory. More could not be required between the courts of
this country and England.
There having been no evidence introduced in the English suit to establish the heirship of the claimant, the decision of the court there, dismissing the bill, is not
conclusive as to the title. What effect those proceedings ought to have in this
country, this court will not now decide. It only decides, that the evidence in
support of the title is not barred in the Circuit Court of Pennsylvania.
The judgment of a foreign court upon a question of title cannot preclude a claimant frorm introducing evidence in a second -suit, in another country, for other
property. Such a proposition is not recognized either by the jurisprudence of the
nited States or of Great Britain; nor i3 the opinion of this court in conflict
with the established comity of nations.

THis case came up, by appleal, from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of East Pennsylvania, sitting as a
court of equity.
The circumstances of the case are set forth in the following
statement, which the reporter finds prefixed to the opinion of the
court, and whibh supersedes the necessity of any statement of his
own.
In 1791, Matthias Aspden, a subject of the king of Great

468

SUPREME COURT.
Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

Britain, and domiciled there, being in the State of Pennsylvania,
where he had formerly resided, made his will, whereby he devised
his property to his heir at law, with the exception of some trifling
specific bequests. He died in England, in 1824 (which country
continued to be his place of domicile), leaving much property
there, and also much in Pennsylvania. The only surviving executor named in Matthias Aspden's will was Henry Nixonj of Philadelphia, who proved the will, and took out letters testamentary
in the Orphan's Court of, Philadelphia county, in November, 1824;
and he did the same in the proper court in England, in 1825.
The testator left no children, and different persons claimed to be
tie true devisee, within the description of " heir at law."
In 1829s, Samuel Packer filed his bill against the executor Nixon,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania, alleging that he, Packer, was the devisee, and
praying the .estate might be distributed to him.
Under this bill, numerous complainants came in by petition, re resenting themselves to be the next of kin and the true devisees in
Jlennsylvania, and claiming parts of the eAtate ; and in December,
/831, -John Aspden, of the county of Lancashire, England, was
admitted to come in as co-complainant, he claiming to be the rightful heir at law and devisee of Matthias Aspden."
In favor of this, latter claimant a decree was made in 1833, and
the bill ordered to be dismissed as tb all other claimants. A portion of the latter appealed to this court.
In 1834, Janet Jones, Thomas Poole, and Mary, his wife,
moved to file a supplemental- bill and bill of rev.ew in' the Circuit
Court ; the said Janet. and Mary claiming to be heirs at law of
John Aspden, of London, who was the heir of Matthias Aspden,
at the time of Matthias~s death, as they alleged. This motion was,
overruled, as coming too late. Thus stood the proceeding in the
Supreme Court on the appeal taken in 1833.
At the January term, 1835, when the cause came on for argument upon the merits, a question was presented by the counsel for
the appellants, whether the bill taken by itself, or in connection
with the answqr, contdined sufficient r'itter'upon which the court
could proceed, ar.l finally dispose of the cause. It was submitted,
that the bill contains no.averment of the actual domicile of the testator, at the time he made his will, or at any intermediate period
before or at his death. The court directed this question to be
argut d before the argument should proceed on the merits.
The court, in their decision of this preliminary question, say,
that an* averment of the testator's domicile is indispensable in the
bill, and that the case ought to be remanded to the Circuit Court,
for the purpose of having suitable amendments made in this particular. And the court, on "the question of. the motion to permit the

•JANUARY
Aspdenwet

TERM, 1846.
al. v.'Nixon

469

et al.

petitioners for a review, to be heard before the Supreme Court,
make the following remarks :" It appears from the'motions which have been made to this
court, as well as from certain proceedings in the court below, which
have been laid before us in support thereof, that there are certain
claimants of this bequest, asserting themselves to be heirs at law,
whose claims have not been adjudicated upon in the court below,
on account of their having been presented at too late a period. As
the cause is to go back again for further proceedings, and must be
again opened there for new allegations and proofs, these claimants
will have a full opportunity of presenting and proving their claims
in the cause ; and we are of opinion, that they ought to be let into
the cause for this purpose. In drawing up the decree, remanding
the cause, leave will be'given to them accordingly. The decree
of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed; and the cause is remanded to the Circuit Court for further proceedings, in conformity
to this opinion." 9 Peters, 505.
On the mandate going down, in June, 1835, John Aspden of Lancashire filed his amended bill, stating the domicile, &c., and John
A. Brown, adminhistrator of John Aspden of London,-together with
Janet Jones and Mary Pool (then widows), the daughters of John
of London, were let in to file their petition, claiming the estate of
Matthias Aspden on the ground that John of London was the heir.
To this petition Nixon pleaded, that John of London, in 1825,
bad filed his bill against him, Nixon, as executor, &c., in the High
Court of Chancery in England, for an account and distribution of
the estate ; which bill had been answered, and the answer replied'
to. That John of London died in 1828, intestate, his domicile
"neing in England at the time; and that Thomas Poole, in right of
his wife Mary, and Janet Jones, administered on said John's estate in England ; that they, as such administrator and administratrix, proceeded to revive the suit in chancery against the defendant, Nixon-; which was brought to a hearing in the High Couit of
Chancery, in 1830, and was heard, and the 'bill dismissed.
And that, afterwards, another bill was brought by said Thomas
Poole and Janet Jones, as administrator and administratrix of
John Aspden, against said Nixon, as executor of Matthias Aspden,
for the same precise subject-matter, in the Court of Exchequer in
England ; to which the decree in the High Court of Chancery was
pleaded in bar ; and which plea in bar was sustained, and th( latter
suit dismissed by the Court of Exchequer ; and on these proceedings the defendant Nixon relied as a bar to anyfurther proceedings on the part of the personal representatives of John Aspden
of London. The court permitted the latter to reply to the plea
of Nixon. The replication alleges, that the bill in the High Court
of Chancery in England was dismissed " for want of prosecution,"
because the claimants were too poor to prosecute the same, or to
'VOL. IV.

NN

470

SUPREME COURT.
Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

procure their evidence of title ; and that the bill in the Exchequer
was dismissed as stated in the-plea.
A commission was awarded by order of the court, and evidence
taken in England to establish the facts alleged by the replication.
From this, it appears that the bills were filed, and the proceedings
had, wAhich are set forth by Nixon's plea ; and also that the representatives of John Aspden of London failed to produce any evidence of their title by reason of their poverty. And on the
"effect " of this evidence to support the plea in bar, the judges
were divided in opinion.
The cause was argued by ,Mr. 1. Hoffman and Afr. David Hoffman, with whom was .4.r. Charles J. Ingersoll, for John Aspden
of Lancashire, in support of the plea in bar, and by .7tIr. Rved and
.Tr. Williams, for Mrs. Poole and Mrs. Jones, and for John A.
Brown, administrator of John Aspden of London, against the validity of the plea.
The question uppn which the judges of the Circuit Court were
divided in opinion, as certified by the record, was this:-" Is the
evidence, touching the plea in bar, sufficient to support it ?
- But after the argument was opened, the counsel were directed by
the court to extend their inquiry, and examine the validity of the
plea itself. As the decision of the court was, that the plea was
insufficient, all the arguments of the counsel either for or against
the competency of the evidence to support the plea are omitted.
Xr. J. Hoffman, in support of the plea.
There is no principle better settled, than that the decree, sentence, or judgment of any court, having jurisdiction of the subjectmatter, whether foreign or domestic, is conclusive upon[ the rights
of the parties in a subsequent proceeding between the same parties or their representatives. Bowles v. Orr, 1 Younge & Collyer,
464 ; Iartin v. Nicolls, 3 Simons, 485 ; 5 Cond. Eng. Ch. Rep.
198 ; 8 Peters, 308 ; 4 Connect. Rep. 85 ; 2 Kaines on Eq. (3d
edit. 1778), 365 ; 1 Gill & Johns. 492 ; 4 Maule & Selw. 20 ;
Phillips v. Hunter, 2 H. Blacl. 410 ; 2 Kent's Comm. (3d edit.)
Lect. 37, pp. 119, 120. " A decree," says Judge Story, "by a
foreign court, dismissing a claim, is conclusive against the plaintiff,
and he cannot again renew the controversy in a foreign court or
country." Story's Conflict of Laws, 499.
In the Bank of the United States v. Beverly et al., 1 Howard,
134, this court ruled, "that an answer in chancery, setting up as a
defence the dismission of a former bill filed by the same complainants, is not sufficient unless the record be exhibited." Here, the
same matter is set up, by the defendants' plea, as a bar to the plaintiffs' bill or petition, and sustained by the exhibition of "the record,
and therefore is 'sufficient.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

.471

Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

In Wright v. Diklyne, 1 Peters's C. C. Rep. 199 -202, it is
held, " that the dismission of a bill in chancery is not conclusive
against the complainant in a court of law; although the bill may
have been brought for the same matter. But in a court of equity
such dismission would be a bar to a new bill."
But it is contended that the decree by the Court of Chancery was
not upon the merits, but simply a dismissal of the complainants'
bill for want of proof, and therefore not conclusive. The record,
however, shows that there was an answer to each of the several
bills of the complainants, and the case regularly brought on for a
hearing on the pleadings, and after argument by counsel for both
parties, the court dismissed the bills, and decreed that the funds be
paid to the defendant; and that the complainants pay the defendant his bill of costs. This being a final and absolute decision in
the cause, may be pleaded in bar to a new bill. " A decree of
dismission of the complainant's bill, signed and enrolled, may be
pleaded in bar to a new bill." 1 Vernon, 310 ; 3 Atk. 809 ;
Rattenbury v. Fenton, Cooper's Sel. Cas. 60 ; Price v.Boyd, 1
Dana, 436 ; 4 Johns. Ch. Rep. 142 ; 7 ibid. I -; The same, 286;
5 Littell, 514.
Judge Story, in his treatise on equity (vol. 2, p. 739, § 1523,
edit. of 1839), says,-" A former decree in a suit in equity between
the same parties, and for the same subject-matter, is also a good
defence in equity, even although it be a decree merely dismissing
the bill, if the dismissal is not expressed to be without prejudice."
Cooper's Eq. Pl. ch. 5, pp. 269-271 ; Mitford's Eq. P1. by Jeremy, 237-239. This principle of equity was applied by the
Court of Exchequer. to the present plaintiffs' bill, referred to and
incorporated in the plea in bar. Jones and Pool v. Nixon, Executor of Aspden, I Younge's Exchequer Rep. 359. The syllabds
of that case reads thus : -"
A plea of a former suit and decree
signed and enrolled in the Court of Chancery, in respect to the
same matters, allowed, though the bill in that court was dismissed,
not on the merits, but for want of evidence."
The same principle was recognized in Pickdit v. Loggon, 14
Vesey, 232, 233. The chancellor remarks, in the course of his
opinion, that if a party thinks proper to bring his cause to a hearing,
&c., and the cause capable of being opened, and then makes default, it is very difficult, and would be rather mischievous, to treat
such conduct merely as a nonsuit at law. "If,"-says the chancellor,
" the judgment in the former suit, such as it was, would have barred
the proceedings in this- suit, it was upon the defendant to set up that
bar in some shape, either by a plea in bar, or by an answer insisting upon the same benefit as if it had been pleaded in bar. Whether, in either shape, that judgment or decree would have been an
absolute answer to this proceeding, I profess 'to entertain some
doubt. But I cannot see why, if a second suit is permitted, there

472

SUPREME COURT.
Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

may not be a third, and so on. But the defendant may waive the
benefit arising from pleading the former decree, or insisting upon it
by answer, and proceed to answer the merits of the plaintiff's bill
without reference to the former decree as a bar."
The case of Holliday and Coleman, reported in 2 Munf. 162, is
in some respects much like the present. No evidence in that case
was given by either party. The defendants in the first suit demurred to the complainants' bill, and also answered at length. On
the hearing, the chancellor sustained the demurrer, and dismissed
the bill. The complainants filed another original bill, and the defendants pleaded the decree dismissing te former bill in bar ; and
the court sustained the plea. " A decree," says the chancellor, "by a court of competent jurisdiction, dismissing a bill upon
the ground that the deed upon which the complainant claimed was
fraudulent, is a complete bar to another original bill to try the validity of the same deed ; the proper remedy, if such decree be erroneous, being by appeal, writ of error, supersedeas, or bill of review,
and not by original bill."
The complainants, Mrs. Jones and Mrs. Pool, should have appealed from the decree of the vice-chancellor dismissing their bill,
or petitioned for a review. Such was the course pursued by the
parties in the case of Kosciuszko's will. Armstrong v. Lear, 12
Wheat. 169.
"Equity will not entertain jurisdiction of a matter which the
party has had an opportunity of litigating-in another court, and
which had there been decided against him, unless it appears that
there existed circumstances, &c., which prevented his making his
defence, or trying the question." M'Clure v. Miller, 1 Baily's
Eq. Rep. 170 ; Henderson v.Mitchell, ibid. 11.
"1When the party seeking relief, by a petition for a rehearing,
had knowledge of the evidence before the decree, or by reasonable
diligence or inquiry might have obtained it, he is not entitled-to relief." Baker v. Whiting, 1 Story, 218.
" A direct final judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction is for ever conclusive and binding, as to the subjectmatter, between the same parties, and all who are privies in law or
estate, although a contrary decree upon the same subject-matter be
subsequently made as to the other persons who were neither parties
.nor privies to the first decree, and who are not therefore bound by
it." Marigarth v. Deas, 1 Bailys Eq. Rep. 284.
"1When a matter has once been adjudicated by a competent jurisdiction, it shall not again be drawn in question ; nor will parties
be permifted again to litigate what they had once had an opportunity of litigating in the course of a judicial proceeding ; but whatever might properly have been put in issue in that proceeding shall
be concluded to have been put in issue and determined." McDoweli v. McDowelL. I Baily's Eq. Rep. 324.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.
Aspden et al. v. Nixon

473

et al.

"When a party has had it in his power to ascertain the importance of testimony before the bearing of his case, and has neglected to do so, and to obtain the testimony, a court of equity will not
grant a rehearing of the case, on the ground that the -importance
of the evidence had been ascertained after the decisioti, although
the justice of the case might be promoted by it." Prevost v.
Gratz, 1 Peters's C. C. Rep. 365 -379 ; 1 Paige's Ch. Rep.
574 ; 1 McCord's Ch. Rep. 241 ; 1 Littell, 325.and 137.
And the rule at law is the same as in equity. " Whatever was,
or might have been, decided in a court of law or equity ii conclusive in a second proceeding between the same parties or their representatives.' Heller v. Jones, 4 Binney, 60 ; Heimes v. Jacobs,
I Pennsyli. Rep. 152 ; Fishle v. Fishle, I Blacks. R. 360.
" A former suit for the same cause of action, in which the defendant obtained -a verdict, is a bar to a second suit, although such
verdict was rendered on the erroneous ground that the plaintiffIs
cause of action had not.then accrued, when in fact the plaintiff had"
at the time a good and perfect cause of action." Morganv. Plumb.
9 Wend. 287.
1rIt, is a principle universally acknowledged, that the judgment
or decree of a court) having jurisdicion is not only final as to the
matter determined; but as to every other matter which the parties
might litigate in the cause, and which they might have hao decided."
Per Kent, Justice, on page 502. "Every person is bound to
take care of his own rights, and to vindicate them in due season,
and in proper order. This is a sound and salutary principle of
law. -Aceordingly, if- defendant, having the means of defence in
his power, neglects to use them, and suffers a recovery to bo
had against him by a competent tribunal, he is for ever precluded."
.CThe general rule is-intended to prevent litigation, and to preserve peace ; and were It otherwise, men would never know when
they might repose with security on the decisions of courts of justice, and judgments solemnly and deliberately given might cease
to be revered, as being no longer the end -t controversy and the
evidence of right."
" The ,principle nrevails both in courts of law and equity. In
bills of review whcn are brought before the same tribunal to re-,
view a former 1ee, ee, it is a settled maxim of equity, that no evidence of a matter in the knowledge of the party, and which he
might have used in the former suit, shall be the ground of a bill of
review." Le Guen v. Governeur & Kemble, I Johns. Cas. 492
and 502.
The application on the part of the petitioners for admissibn as
parties, in this case, to claim the estate of the testator, in opposition
to the representatives of John Aspden of Lancashire, whose title
N.
60
VOL. Iv.

474

SUPREME COURT.
Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

to the same, as the h~ir at law of the testator, was declared by the
Circuit Court, in their decree, on the 26th of December, 1833, is
made under circumstances little calculated to obtain the favorable
consideration of a court of equity. From August, 1825, to July,
1830, the complainants' bill vas pending, and no attempt on their
part was made to prove their relationship to the testator, and establish their right to the estate, as his heirs at law. They had the
most ample opportunity to establish their claim to the estate ; and
having neglected to do so, they are concluded by the aecree of the
court, dismissing their bill.
In April, 1830, John Aspden of Lancashire appeared in the
Circuit Court, and obtained leave to issue a commission, in the case
of Packer v. Nixon, Executor of Matthias Aspden, of April session, 1828, No. 1, to England, to prove his relationship to the
testator.
Numerous witnesses were examined, both in England
and America, proving his relationship to the testator. And a report by the master, upon the evidence, declaring him to be the
heir at common law, on- the paternal -side of the testator ; and on
the 26th of December, 1833, a decree in his favor-of the personal
estate of the testator, as his heir at law. During a period of many
years, these claimants watched the progress of a tedious and most
expensive litigation, between the heir.at law and next of kin to
the testator ; the former claiming the estate under the will, and the
latter under the intestate laws of Pennsylvania. And immediately
after the decision of the Circuit Court giving a construction to the
will, by which the heir at law became entitled to the personal estate of the testator, they appeared in court, ready and willing to
deprive the said John Aspden of Lancashire of the character of
heir at law, and to substitute themselves as such., by an attempt to
revive a claim which had been twice decided against them, and
that, too, after neglecting, from 1825 to 1834, to offer a particle
of evidence in support of it. It would be most iniquitous to suffer
them to do so. Vigilantibus non dormientibus iervit lex.
'Upon general principles, and upon a.review of.the equitable circumstances in favor of John Aspden of Lancashire, who stands
in the place of the defendant, the plea in bar by the defendant to
the plaintiff's petition ought to be sustained, and judgment renderOd for the defendant.
The 'unsel for Mrs. Poole and Mrs. Jones, and for John A.
Brown, administrator of John Aspden of London; made the following points.
I. The plea in bar is not sufficient in law :1.. Because the bills in this case, and the decrees in chancery
and in the Exchequer, in England, pleaded in bar, to them, are not
between the same parties.
2. Because they are not in relation to the same subject-matter.

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

475

Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

3. Because they are not of the same :quality, or in the same
right.
4. Because the decree of dismission was not made by a court
having competent jurisdiction, under the circumstances ofthe case,
to conclude the appellees.
II. These pleas are not proved :
1. Because there is ho evidence to support them.
2. Because the evidence does not show them to be ad idem
with the bills filed in this.case.
3. Because there is no proof that the letters taken out by John
A. Brown are ancillary te-those obtained by Mrs. Jones and Mrs.
Poole, in London.
4. Becaise the decrees are neither signed nor enrolled.
III. The dismission, ifproved, is no bar to the appellees 1. Because there was no decision on the merits.
2. Because no proofs were taken.
3. Because there has been no construction given to the will of
M. Aspden, either by the Court of Chancery or the Exchequer.
4. Because the vari6i9 .objections made to the sufficiency of
the plea show it tq be invalid as a bar.
IV. The plea is to the whole of the bills or petitions of the appellees ; and as part of- the defence is bad, the whole must be
overruled.

.4fr. Reed, after examining the gecond of the above points, relating to the sufficiency of the evidence, proceeded.
The question of evidence need not be further referred to. The
question now is, is the plea in bar sufficient, assuming its averments
to be proved. We do not come here to dispute any general principle as to the- conclusiveness of coinpetent foreign judgments. It
is a doctrine, in its general application, of "repose," and hence
of high morality. It is not technical, as distinguished from reasonable. On the other hand, its application is sometimes exquisitely
technical. A decree in chancery, dismissing a bill "for want of
evidence," is a bar. A decree dismissing a bill "for want of
prosecution," is no bar. In Rosse v. Rust, 4 Johns. Ch: Rep.
300, no party appeared, and the bill was dismissed for want of
prosecution, and held to be no bar, "because the merits were
never discussed." Yet, substantially, there is no difference between that, case and this, but as much discussion of merits in one
as in the other. In the case now before the court, it is in evidence
that Sir Edward Sugden advised the solicitor of petitioners to stay
out of court and have his bill dismissed (" struck out of the paper")
for technical want of prosecution. He refused, went into court to
make an effort to have it referred to a master, and it was dismissed
for want of evidence. No discussion of merits. The decrees of
dismissal here pleaded were not on hearing, not on, evidence, not

476

SUPREME COURT.
Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

on merits, but on default of peculiar nature, from extreme poverty
of parties. This poverty is clearly lroved.
The rule of conclusiveness of a foreign decree becomes techWcal in the extreme when thus applied, and courts are bound, .before
they apply it to the exclusion of meritorious claimants from a hearing, to see that every technical requisite exists.
These decrees, then, it is contended, have none of the technical
requisites.
They are not, - 1. Between the same parties. 2. Not on the
same subject-matter. 3. Not, in one sensq, by competent tribunals. These points, in one aspect, must be considered together.
In another, they are distinct.

There are two parties, petitioners, before this court.

1. Janet

Jones and Mary Poole, as heirs of John Aspden of London. 2.
John A. Brown, administrator of John Aspden of London. To
each there is a separate plea in bar.
.1. The first petition is of two coheiresses of a decedent, widows. The decree pleaded is a decree of dismissal of the bill, Janet Jones, and Thomas Poole, and Mary, his wife, administrators
of J. Aspden. Putting out of view, for the present, this character
as administrators, can a decree against 'husband and wife be pleaded in bar to a bill by the wife surviving the husband ? Reeve v.
Dolly, 2 Simons & Stuart, 464 ; Calvert on Parties in Equity,
272 (17 Law Library).
This was a bill by wife, by her next
friend, against husband and trustee of wife's separate property.
Plea, a bill pending by husband and wife against the trustees.
Held to be no bar, because dismissal of husband and wife's bill is
no bar to wife's separate bill. The bill of husband and wife is the
husband's bill, which he may bar by release. Duvall v. Covenhoven, 5 Paige, 581.
If Thomas Poole had released this claim, it
would have been a defence to bill by him and his wife in England.
Yet a decree against them in England on such a defence would
surely be no bar to suit here by his widow. This suit is against a
different fund. Joint decree and order of payment vests property
in husband. -Calvert, 271 ; Ward on Legacies, 64 (18 Law
Library). In this view these proceedings not between same parties.
2. A far more serious and interesting question arises on application of this plea to Mr. Brown's petition. He sues here as the
American administrator, tinder letters granted in Pennsylvania, of
John Aspden, of London. The parties to the English bills were the
Brithh administrator of J. Aspden, under a different commission,
and with different responsibilities, and the question then is distinctly
and for the first time presented, whether a judgment of any sort,by
confession, default, or on hearing, againstan administrator in one country bars the suitof an administrator in another and'foreign jurisdiction.
The law of Pennsylvania on the subject of foreign administrations
is clear. From1705 to 1832, a suit by an administrator in a sister

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

477

Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

State could be maintained. McCullough v. Young, 1 Binney, 63.
But never by a British or foreign administrator. Grwme v. Harris,
I Dallas, 456. In 1826, estates of decedents were made the sub-,
ject of taxation, and in 18-32 (Purdon, 911), all extra territorial
letters of administration were invalidated. At no time.in Pennsylvania has there been any privity between a British and a domestic
administration. If John Aspden or his English 'administrators had
obtained a decree in England, it would be inoperative here. No
rivity between them and Mr. Brown, no privity between Nixon in
ngland and Nixon in the United States. Brodie v.- Bickley, 2
Rawle, 431.
The administrator with will annexed of one domicilet
in England, proves the will in 'Massachusetts ; he i not to account
for English assets. Boston v. Boylston, 2 Mass. R. 384. The
Pennsylvania act of assembly in terms is the same. Purdon, 913.
If J. Aspden's British administrators had suffered a judgment against
them in Pennsylvania, it would have no effect, the foreign administration being a nullity. Borden v. Borden, 5 Mass. R. 67. Administration confers rights and creates liabilities coextensive with
jurisdiction that confers it. Mothland v. Wireman, 3 Penn. Rep.
185. An Irish administrator releases Abond of intestate, no bar to
suit by English administrator. 3 Dyer, 305. Same principle here.
Vaughan v. Barret, 5 Vermont R. 333. If J. Aspden's English
administrators had sued in Pennsylvania, and had judgment and
execution, it would be no bar to suit by Pennsylvania administrator.
Pond v. Makepeace, 2 Metcalf, 114. To a suit by Pennsylvania
administrator, foreign executors come and make defence, the plaintiff entitled to recover by virtue of his distinct domestic office.
Willing v. Perot, 5 Rawle, 264. So Vaughan v. Northup, 15
Peters, 1 ; Morrel v. Dickey, 1 Johns. Ch: R. 153 ; Doolittlet'.
Lewis, 7 Johns. Ch. R. 47; W6odin v. Bagley, 13 Wendell,
455. Creditors must be protected. Jenkins v. Freye:, 4 Paige,
51. In Pennsylvania, commonwealth always a creditor.
From these authorities, it clearly results that there is no privity between English administrator whose bill was dismissed, and Pennsylvania administrator who now sues. A decree of dismissal &--their
bill cannot bar ours in so different a right. It is no answer to say the
English decree was a decision of John Aspen's right. It was the
decision of no right. It was a dismissal through neglect of English
administrators, - a default from poverty. Suppose American administrator to be a creditor, such a dismissal .could be no bLr.
This court will not inquire whether he is or not. 'Pennsylvania
administrator represents the commonwealth, which always is a
creditor.
But again, Matthias Aspden, at his death, had property in England, France; and the United States. Of the French funds we
know nothing. They never were in England. On his death, and
Nixonls probate of will in England, the English funds vested in him

478

SUPREME COURT.
Aspden et al v. Nixon et al.

as English executor. As American executor, Nixon had American
funds. His rights were wholly distinct. 2 Mass. R. 384 ; 3 Penn.
R. 185. The .funds were distinct. The British courts had no
jurisdiction over the Arherican funds. Their jurisdiction tested
by power to enforce their decrees. That confined to England.
Mr. Nixon never was in England, and not, therefore, liable to attachment. The British proceeding, therefore, strictly in rem, and
the furthest extent of its conclusiveness is as to English funds.
Hence not decree of competent tribunal, and no bar. White v.
White, 7 Gill & Johnson, 289.
No requisite of a conclusive decree pleaded in bar exists here,
and this without questioning any general principle. No case has,
however, been cited, except one (Phillips v. Hunter, 2 H. BI.
410) in bankiuptcr, nor can one be found, where British courts
have gone to the extent now contended for, or held an American
judgment absolutely conclusive. All are cases of British colonial
decrees, and in that case doubt is expressed whether a different rule
ought not to prevail. Henderson v. Henderson, 3 Hare, 117.
,Mr. Williams, on the same side with Mr. Reed, and against the
plea.
I. The pleas filed by Nixon, executor of Aspden, as defensive
bars to the petitions of the appellees, are not sufficient in law.
1. Because the bills filed in the courts of Chancery and of the
and the present suit are not between the same parties.
Exchequer
I The bill in
the English Court of Chancery was originally filed by
John Aspden of London, became abated by his death, and was
revived by Janet Jones and Thomas Poole, and Mary, his wife;
the said Janet, Thomas, and Mary having taken out letters of
administration to the estate of said John Aspden, from the Prerogative Court of Canterbury. Record, 790.
The bill subsequently filed in the Court of Exchequer was also
brought by Janet Jones and Thomas Poole, and Mary, his wife,
administratrix of said John Aspden. (Record, 79, 80.
By the death of John Aspden, the bill in chancery ceased to be
his bill. It became the bill of the parties for whose benefit it was
revived (Comyn's Dig., vol. 2, pp. 410, 411, title Chancery, F,
Bill of Revior ; Story's Eq. Plead., § 367, p. 298, and cases
there cited) ; and the whole interest existing in Mrs. Poole, both
by virtue of letters of administration and as next of kin of the intestate, being, by operation of law and his marital privilege, vested
in her husband, Thomas Poole, the bill in fact became the bill of
Janet Jones and Thimas Poole. 2 Williams on Executors, 633,
634, and cases there'eited.
The bill in the Exchequer, for the same reasons, was also the bill
of Janet Jones and Thomas Poole.
Both these bills were thus 'bils filed uider the authority con-

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

479

Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

ferred by the English ecclesiastical courts upon the English. administrators.
As the right of the parties at the time of the decree regulates that
decree (2 Howard, 466), the dismissiuns in both those courts were
dismissions of the bills of Janet Jones and Thomas Poole, administrator and administratrix of John Aspden.
The parties to the present suit are; 1. Janet Jones and Mary
Poole, both widows, and next of kin of Jom Aspden ; 2. John A.
Brown, administrator of John Aspden, in Pennsylvania.
The parties to the English bills are thus English administrators.
Those in the present suit are the next 6f kin of the intestate and
the Pennsylvania administrator.
Are these English administrators and the Pennsylvania administrator the same parties, either in fact or in law ? They are in fact
different persons. Are they in law the same parties ?
In Pennsylvania the law is settled, 'that foreign letters of administration give no rights whatever within that State. Graeme v.
Harris, 1,Dall. 456 ; McCullough v. Young, 4 Dall. 292 ; same
case, 1 Binn. 64.
An old act of 1705 was supposed to have given some rights to
foreign administrators, but the cases cited rule that it only applied
to the then English provinces, and, after the declaration of independdnce, to the United States. See Justice Nelson's opinion, in
Schulz v. Pulver, 11 Wend. 361.
In 1832, the law now in force was-passed (Purdon, 911, act of
1832, § 6), declaring that no letters gianted out of this commonwealth shall confer upon any person any of the powers or authorities
of an executor or administrator under letters granted in Pennsylvania. This act was merely declaratory, and made no change in the
law of Pennsylvania except as rdgards letters of administration
granted within the United States. The same rule prevails in England. 1 Will. on Executors, 204, 205.
India, Scotch, or Irish letters, are of no avail in England. Allison v. Murphy, Hard. 216; administration in Canterbury void in
York. Sue Lowe v. Farlie, 29 Mad. Ch. R. 101 ; Tour.ton v.
Flower, 3 P. Wms. 369; Vanthuysen v. Vanthuysen, Fitzgib.
204 ; Toller, 70 ; Beirn v. Cole, Ambler, 416 ; Pipon v. Pipon,
Ambler, 25 ; 1 Com. Dig. A'tdministrator, B 3, p. 494 ; Jenkins
v. Freyer, 4 Paige, 50 ; Woodin v. Bagley, 13 Wend. 453.
The principles of all these decisions will be found stated in I
Will. on Executors, 236, 237.
The powers of these different administrators extend only to the
limits of the sovereignties creating them, and neither allows the
other to intermeddle with any assets within their respective jurisdictions. See bond required of an executor of non-resident testator
in Pennsylvania, which applies only to assets within the Commonwealth, act of 1832, § 15. Purd. 913.

480

SUPREME COURT.
Aspden et al. w. Nixon et al.

They are not, then, in law i the same parties.
Nor are they privies. Adams v. Savage, Salkeld, 40.
Administrator in Devonshire cannot have sci. fa. on a judgment
in Westminster. Higgins v. York. Buildings Company, 2 Atkyns, 44.
Beames's Pleas, 300 administrator de bonis son cannot revive a
bill filed by a former administrator, because there is no privity between them. Story's Conflict, § 522, p. 436 ; Tallmage v. Chap16 Mass. R. 71 (see p. 73) ; Grout v. Chamberlain, 4 Mass.
.6[1, 613.
There is no privity between an executor and an administrator
de bonis non cum test. ann., and the latter cannot sue out a
writ of error on a judgment recovered by the former.
The administrator de bonis non may have a new action. C. J.
Parsons rests this decision upon the English authorites. Yelverton;
33, 83 ; Latch, 140.
It required a statute, 17 Car. II., c. 8, to enable such succeeding administrator to obtain the fruits of a judgment obtained by
his.predecessor ; and therefore, even in this case, where letters are
granted by the same ecclesiastical court, there is only a privity by
statute, not by the common law.
So, in Pennsylv mia ; the succeeding administrator completes the
administration of the former by virtue of an express authority conferred by ct of 1834. Purd. 440. (See Allen .v. Irtvin, 1 Serg.
and Rawle, 554.)
But this statute in England and the act of Pennsylvania applies
only to administration granted by these respective countries ;
neitherrelates to foreign letters. Bohun, Cur. Can. 186 ; Tourton
v. Flower, 3 P.,Wms. 369.'
Lee v. Bank of England, 8 Vesey, 44. In this case Sir William Grant says, that the persons (executors) in America are not
the personal representatives of the testator, within the meaning of
the -laws of this country. And this was where the executor refused
to prove.the will in England, the M. R. saying, if he refuses and
is absent, you may have adrhinistration here. Arnold v. Arnold,
.2 Mylne & Craig, 271. Ace.
The American cases are equally strong. Goodwin v. Jones,
3 Mass. R. 514 ; 2 Mass, R. 384 ; 9 Mass. R. 347 ; Doolittlev.
Lewis, 7 Johns. Ch, R, 46 ; MorreI v. Dickey, 1 Johns. Ch.
R. 153 ; Chapman v. Fish, 6 Hill, -555.
In this court, the same law has been laid down iepeatedly. Fenwick v. Sears, 1 Cranch, 259 -; Dixon's executors v. Ramsay's
executors, 3 Cranch, 319 ; Kerr v. Moon, 9 Wheat. 56 ; Smithy.
The Bank of United States, 5 Peters, 529 ; Vaughan v. Northup, 15 Peters, 1. (See Judge Story's opinion, pp 5, 6.)
. But as the law of the forum in which the bar is set up must regulate
its effect, it is particularly with Pennsylvania law we have to do

481

JANUARY TERM, 1846.
Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

here ; and the authorities in this State are conclusive. ' Brodie v.
Birkley, 2 Rawle, 436; Mothland v. Wireman, 3 Penn. R. 186 ;
Willing'v. Perot, 5 Rawle, 264 ; Purdon, 443, act of 24th February, 1834, § 47, requiring executors to pay legacies under the
direction of the Orphan's Court.
Fiom these authorities, it results, 1. That administration granted by each jurisdiction is paramount.
2. That administrators are, even within the same jurisdiction,
privies only by virtue of statutory enactments, and in no case by the
common law.
3. That they-are not the general representatives of the intestate,
but only as respects his estate in the country from which they derive their authority.
4. And- that therefore foreign administrators cannot be in any
sense the same parties or privies with those in the State of Pennsylvania.
On this ground, the plea in bar is insufficient.
Again, the parties in these suits are different, because the English
bills are bills by a husband and wife, which are always considered
bills of the husband only. . Smith v. Myers, 3 Mad. 474 ; Reeves
v. Dolby, 2 Sim. & Sta. 464 ; Hughes v. Evans, 1 Sim. & Stu.
185 ; Mole v. Smith, 1 Jac. & Walk.; Paulet v.Delaval, 2 Ves.
sen. 666 ; Griffith v. Hood, 2 Ves. sen. 451.
Bill by.husband and wife is the husband's bill. Where any thing
is for the separate use of the wife, the bill should be brought by a
prochein amy, otherwise it is the husband's bill. Owden v.Campbell, 8 Sim. 551.
Suit by husband and wife is suit of husband, and if bill be dismissed or decree made adverse to her interests, the wife may bring
a fresh bill by her next friend. Wake v. Parker, 2 Keen, 73;
Grant v. Vanshoonhoven, 9 Paige, 257 ; Duvall v.Covenhoven, 5
Paige, 581.
The husband, when he sues in right of his wife, must make her
a party, but he sues for his own benefit, and he may release or assign
his claim for a valuable consideration ; and if a decree is made for
the payment of money, or..if the claim-is otherwise reiuced into
possession, it will pass to his representatives. -Wintercast i. Smith,
4'Rawle, 182 ; Lodge v. Hamilton, 2 S. & R. 493,
As there is no prochein amy a.party in the Engash billg, they are
then the husband's bills, and the dismission cannot be pleaded in
bar to a fresh bill by the wife, even in En~and, much less in a
foreign jurisdiction.
For this reason, then, the English and American bills are not between the same parties.
1I. The English bills and the suit in Pennsylvania 'are not for
the same subject-matter.
VOL. IV.

'

61

0O

482

SUPREME COURT.
Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

These were bona notablia both in England and Pennsylvania.
Record, 116: 16.
The assets in Pennsylvania are subject only to the control of the
Pennsylvania administrator, and those in England to that of the
English administrator ; neither can affect any portion of the estate
,of the-decedent not within the-jurisdiction fiim which they receive
their appointment.
1. By suit; or
2. By assignment.
3. And each must account to, and are responsible only for, the
assets within'the State, province, or diocese which-appoints them.
1. They cannot affect these assets by suit. Borden v. Borden,
5 Mass. R. 77 ; Pond v. Makepeace, 2 Metcalf, 114 ; judgment
recovered by a Rhode Island administrator in Massachusetts, and
an execution returned satisfied. Still this judgment was no plea in
an action for same debt by the Massachusetts administrator, because
that debt was bona notabilia in Massachusetts. (See cases referred to at p. 117.)
The same rule prevails k England. I Dowl. & Ryl. 35, 16
E. C. L. R. 15; Attorney-General v. Dimond, 1 Cromp. & Jervis,
356, 370 ; 2 Wins. on Executors, 1020.
2. Noi by assignment. Cutter v. Davenport, 1 Pick. 80 (see 83,
84) ; administrator in Vermont cannot assign a mortgage debt due
by a citizen of Massachusetts. It is bona notabilia in Massachusetts, and must be administered there. So are simple contract
debts, and they must be collected where the debtor lives. Chapman v. Fisl, 6 Hill, 554.
The release of a note dated at Albany by a foreign administrator
is no bar to a.suit by a New York administrator, because it is bona
votabilia in that State. The release is inoperative. Vaughan v.
Barret, 5 Vermont R. 333 ; 3 Dyer, 305.
New York administrator releases a debt due from a resident of
Vermont. No plea to a suit by Vermont administrator. Thomas
v. Wilson, 2. N. Hamp. R. 291.
Foreign administrator cannot indorse a note so as to enable the
indorser to sue in New Hampshire in his own name. Hearns v.
Burnham, 5 Greenleaf, 261 ; Lee v. Hares, I Brayton, 93
(Vermont); Willing v. Perot, 5 Rawle, 264.
This last case was a controversy between the Pennsylvania administrator and the assignee of a foreign administrator, and it was
h6ld that the former must always prevail.
3. Administrators are bound to account within the jurisdiction
appointing them, but only for the bona notabilia within that jirisdiction. Boston v. Boylston, 2 Mass. R. 394; Dawes v. Boylston,
9 Mass. R. 337.
Suit on probate bond for assets in adniinistrator's hands, he being
also administrator cum test. ann. in England. Held that he was

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

483

Aspden et al. r. Nixon et al.

accountable in Massachusetts only for the goods, &c., collected
there. Stevens v. Gaylord, 11 Mass. R. 257; Hooker v. Olmsted,
6 Pick. 9, 482, 483.
Plaintiff not entitled to execution against Massachusetts administrator for sums collected in Connecticut, under letters granted to
same person there. Distribution of these assets must be made in
that State, though .the estate of decedent was insolvent in Massachusetts and solvent in Connecticut. Fay v. Haven, 3 Metcalf,
114, 115 ; Peck v. Mead, 2 Wendell, 471 ; Orcut v. Orms, 3
Paige, 465.
Administration granted in New York and Vermont to the same
person.' He must account in each State for the goods inventoiied,
as found in diem, respectively, at the death of the intestate. Harrison v. Sterry, 5 Cranch, 289 ; Smith v. Bank, 5 Peters, 523525 ; Vaughan v. Northup, 15 Peters, 1, 5, 6; Vrom v. Vanhome, 10 Paige, 555.
If, then, foreign administrators cannot affect ihe assets in Pennsylvania by stit, or by assignment, directly, how canl they be affected
by mere omission on his f~art to prosecute a claim to other assets,
out of the jurisdiction of Pennsylvania, beyond the control of the
Pennsylvania administrator, who could not interfere with, become a
party to, or regulate in any way his proceedings abroad ?
The three cases cited above, from 2 Rawle, 436, 5 Rawle, 264,
and 3 Pennsylvania, 188, show it to be the law of Pennsylvania
that sfich proceedings cannot be a bar, as the assets are to 'be retained by the Pennsylvania administrator, to be administered there.
The fact that Nixon appeared to the suits in England does not
vary the case. He appeared only as English executor, under letters from the Prerogative Court to protect the English funds. Such
appearance is coextensive only with his authority as English executor. As American executor, he could not have been heard.
Stevens v. Gaylord, 11 Mass. R. 257 ; Vaughan v. Northup, 15
Peters, 1.
In both these cases, and in several others previously cited, the
administrators were actually served with process ; yet the courts
held that circumstance gave them no jurisdiction over foreign bona
notabilia.
The Pennsylvania act of assembly is as strong in its terms as
that of any other State and country, and excludes every possible
mode of interference, either by acts or omissions ; consent on his
part could not prevent its operation.
HI. The bills in this case, and the decrees in England, are not
in the same rights.
The former are by Pennsylvania administrator, who is trustee,1. For creditors in Pennsylvania; 2. For the commonwealth, as
respects taxes, &c. ; 3. For distribution, under direction of our
orphan's courts. The latter are by the administrators in England,

484

SUPREME COURT.
Azpden et a]. v. Nixon et al.

who are trustees, - 1. For the creditors-in England ; 2. For the
government there, to pay duties, &c.; 3. For distribution under
direction of the couts there.
The cases previously cited establish these positions. See Story's
Conflict, 439, § 524
Dodge v. Perkins, 4 Mason, 436. The right to sue in the United
States courts depends on the citizenship of the administrator, not
on that of the decedent ; for administrator is the real, not merely
the nominal party.
If it is said that administrator is a trustee for next of kin, and
therefore the dismission of the English bills must be a bar, the answer is, that a decree against a cestui que trust is no bar to a suit
by a trustee who was not a party to the former case. Thomas's
Trustees v. Brashear,_4 Munroe, 6o, 68.
IV. This decree not made 'by a court of competent jurisdiction,
either as respects the parties or the subject-matter.
To bind parties, they must be within their jurisdiction. To bind
the property, it must be within their power.
The English courts had no jurisdiction over p administrator
or the property in Pennsylvania.
The cases already cited establish this. The American administrator of Aspden was never -summoned, could not appear, could not
defend or protect -his own rights, or the rights of those whom he
represents.
The Pennsylvania property was not within their power, - could
not have been collected or disposed of by virtue of any authority
from them. Their dcree in favor of the complainants, then (if
it had been given), could not have been enforced.
The process
of sequestration and attachment would have been fruitless.
The American administrator could not -have set up a decree in
favor of the English administrators, if such a decree had been made,
as the foundation of a suit in this country, nor as a bar to the claims
of others as distributees.
It would certainly have been no evidence against John Aspden
of Lancashire. Picquet v. Swan, 5 Mason, 40.
General principles restrain jurisdiction of all courts within their
local limits. In cases of non-residents, judgments are never in
ersonam, they are in rem, and bind only the goods attiched.
ond v. Briggs, 9 Mass.
Even under the act of Congress, judgments must appear to be
rendered by courts having jurisdiction of the parties, as well as the
cause, to have full faith and credit given them. Story's Conflict,
458, § 547.
Douglass v. Forest, 4 Bingham, 686, takes a distinction between
cases where parties owed allegiance to the country where judgment
was given; but American administrator owed none to England.
7 Gill & Johnson, 210. Chancery proceeds in xem, or in per-

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

485

Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

sonam, and the power of enforcing their decrees is the test of their
jurisdiction. They had here no power over J. A. Brown.
In admiralty cases the world are parties, and the whole world is
therefore bound, because notice is served upon the thing itself, and
all interested have,- therefore, notice. But those who have no interest which could be asserted in a court of admiralty have no
notice of the seizure, and cannot be considered as parties. The
decree, as respects them, can therefore be regxamined. Case of
the Mary, 9 Cranch, 126, 144 ; Marshall, C. J.
But if the sentence appears to be for a cause which involves no
violation of fhe law of nations, even admiralty sentences are not
conclusive on the question of neutrality. 2 Wend. 64 ; 2 Bay,
239 ; Salucci v. Johnston, 4 Douhlas, 224.
In this case the American administrator had no interest in the
English funds, was not prseat there, owed no allegiance, had
no notice, - in fact, became administrator only in 1834, after the
decrees were pronounced. He can be, therefore, upon no principle, considered a party ; nor can the decrees be considered, as
respects him, in personam. If they are not so, they are no defensive bar. 'Bates v. Delavan, 5 Paige, 305, is clear to this point.
Picquet v. svan, 5 Mason, 40.
V. This plea is not proved, no evidence being taken by respondent. But even our evidence shows that,1. It is not proved that the bills in England and the pfesent suit
are ad idem. See former part of this argument.
2. It is not proved that Brown's letters were ancillary to those
in England; not that Brown acted as attorney for Poole and Jones.
3. It is not proved that the decrees were signed and enrolled ;
and without being so they are no bar. Witnesses clearly establish
that they were not. Record, 96, 100.
Only two cases have been cited against this position :
Prettyman v. Prettyman, 1 Verm. 310, has been overruled.
See Beanies's Pleas, 219,220.
Dodson v. Oliver, 1 Eagle & Jones, is a tithe case, and in
these cases the practice of the courts is peculiar, not governed by
the rules of equity praetice. The book cited is not in this country; a note of it is found in Seaton's Decrees.
The.English cases are clear. The American are equally strong.
Bennet v. Winter, 2 Johns. Cas. 205; Gill v. Scott, 1 Gill &
Johns. 393 ; Halsted's Digest, 176; Mintum v. Tomkins, 2
Paige, 102; Thomas v. Harvie, 10 Wheat. 148.
The replication denies the fact of the enrolment, and every
other fact except what are specially set forth in it.
VI. The dismission under the circumstances proved is not a
bar. The only discussion was in relation to a reference to the
master ; no pretence that any took place in relation to the merits.
Parties were poor.
Record, 1,01. Gregson died insolvent.
oo*

486

SUPREME COURT.
Aspten et al. v. Nixon ot al.

Record, 98. Application made to Dugdale for a loan. Record,
101.
No construction of the will was given. Brandlyn v. Ord, 1
Atk. 571 ; 1 Smith's Chancery Prac. 246 ; L :rd Bacon's Orders,
4 ; Bacon's Works, 511 ; Rosse v. Rust, 4 Johns. Ch. R. 300;
15 Vesey, 231.
Lord Eldon doubts whether, when cause has not been heard on
its'merits, and an opportunity to be heard has been given, a decree
will be any bar. Can v. Can, 1 P. Wms. 723.
These decrees are no bai, because they do not bind the party
-for whose benefit they are pleaded.
The next of kin have no interest in this question.
John Aspden of Lancashire alone will be benefited by a decision in favor of these pleas.
He is not a party to, nor bound by, the proceeding in the
Englishcourts. Henderson v. Henderson,-3 flare, 117 ; Atkinson v. Turner, Barnard. 77; Rees v. Lawless, 4 Littell, 219 ;
Thompson v. Clay, 3 Munroe, 361, 362 ; Davis v. Hunt, 2 Bai-.
ley, 412, 415.
VII. This plea is to the whole bill ; and if part of the defence
is, bad, the whole must be overruled. Beames's Pleas, 42, 44 ;
Chamberlain v. Agar, 2. Ves. & B. 259; Jones v. Davis, 16
Ves. 262.
Mr. David Hoffman, in support of the pleas and in conclusion.
(All those parts of Mr.. Hoffman's argument, which do not apAy to the point decided by the court, are omitted.)
The British and American cases in support of such pleas in bar
are quite too numerous to be further dwelt on, in the general view
I am now taking of the exceptio rei judicath; but the opinion of
Chief Justice De Grey, in the Duchess of Kingston's case, 11
State Trials, 201, and of Chief Justice Wiles, in the case of
Prudham v. Phillips, Ambler, 763, are leading decisions, and show
that the doctrine lad made its foundations deep in the British system of jurisprudence, long before the prize courts had carried it
to an iniquitous extent. The whole current, also, of our own authorities go the same length ; and whether the decision be a domestic or a foreign one, tle matter-decided is equally respected. Having dwelt sufficiently upon the general nature, grounds, and just
application of the weight ,accorded to the exceptio rei judicatc, I
now proceed to inquire into, II. This doctrine, as practically enforced, under various sound
distinctions, in British and American courts.
In the case now before the Supreme Court, the pleas in bar 6f
former judgments in foreign courtsf are fortified by the following
evidence.

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

487

Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

Authenticated copies of the records, together with the evidence
takenunder the defendant Nixon's commission, showing, 1. A final decree upon a. regular hearing of the cause, before
the counsel on both sides, in the British High Court of Chancery.
2. That this decree of dismissal was for want of any evidence
on the part of the complainants, from Ist August, 1825, to 17th
July, 1830.
3. No caveat was entered against the signing and enrolling of
said decree.
4. No rehearing, or review, or appeal, was prayed.
5. A new original bill was filed it, the Exchequer, twenty-three
days after the dismissal ; no evidence there produced, and no attempt to procure it ; bill dismissed from the Exchequer,. a year
after it was filed, upon the express grounds, 1st. That this was a
final decree in chancery ; 2d. That the exceptio rei judicat filed
by Nixon was a flat bar to any further proceeding, although the
merits as to heirship had been in no way litigated in the Court of
Chancery; and 3d. That a decree of dismissal, for want of evidence, after a hearing, according to the rules of court, and the
practice in chancery, was conclusive upon the Court of Exchequer, and therefore the complainant's bill must be dismissed.
Was that decision correct, according to the English law ? and does
the American conform thereto ? and if so, will not the American
courts deal with these records, and with all the attendant circumstaices (especially as between British subjects) in the same way as
British courts would deal, and have dealt, with the matter ? An
affirmative answer to these questions seems the unavoidable result
of what has already been stated, and of all the circumstances of
the case ; for courts are competent to look it the entire judicial
and extrajudicial res gestas. But, as I have undertaken to coinsider
the subject more in detail, in this second division of tny argument,
I shall now proceed to refer to a number of British and American
cases, and to.comment upon some of them.
The correctness of the decision in the Exchequer will appear
from the following cases and .hooks, in addition to those' already
cited. 2 Ld. Kames on Equity, 365 ; Martin v. Nicolls, 3 Simons, 485 ; Bowles v. Orr, 1 Younge & Collyer, 4Q4. "A decree of dismission of complainant's bill, after it is signed and enrolled, is a bar to a new bill, between the same parties, and for the
same matter." Cooper's Eq. P., ch. 5, 269, &c., and authorities there cited. "A plea in bar, stating a dismissal of a former
bill, is conclusive against a new bill, if the dismissal was upon hearing, and if that dismissal be not in direct terms I without prejudice.'" 1 Vernon, 310 ; 1 Bro. Parl. Cases, 281 ; 1 Chancery
Cases, 155 ; Mitford's Pleadings in Eq. (Jeremy's -edit.) 237, &c.
In Pickett v. Loggon, 14 Vesey, 232, the chancellor says, "If a party thinks *properto allow his case to come to a hearinF,

488

SUPREME COURT.
Aspden et a]. v. Nixon et al.

&., and the cause is capable of being opened, it is very difficut--and would be -rather mischievous, to treat such conduct
merely as a nonsuit at law." How a nonsuit necessarily differs
from a dismissal of a bill, after answer and hearing-, will be noted
hereafter.
I will now advert to some American authorities and cases,
which speak the same language ; and then again return to British
authorities, and apply them both to the case at bar.
1. Where a bill in equity states cdrtain things, and not sufficient
proof is offered by complainant to sustain his allegation, the bill

must be dismissed ; so, if neither denied nor admitted, but complainant be left to his proof, the bill must be dismissed, if there be
no proof at the rule day. 2 Ohio Rep. 22 ; 3 Ohio Rep. 291.
2. Eqpity will not grant a new trial at law, where the party
seeking it has been guilty of any neglect in obtaining his evidence,
even though such neglect were occasioned by the ill-judged advice
of his counsel, and though his bill charges positively that the demand"against him has been fully discharged. 2 Ohio Rep. 312;
6 Ohio Rep. 82.
3. Where a second billis filed to' obtain a second injunction
(the first being dismissed), in relation to the same transaction, and
between the same parties, it will not be enough to allege in that
second bill a new ground of equity not suggested in the former
bill. It muit also be shown that the new matter alleged did not
exist at the time of the first bill ; or that, if it existed, it was unknown to-the complainant. Bank of the United .States v. Shultz,
S Ohio Rep. 62.,
4. No matter can be taken ad aliud examen, which has been
finally acted on by another competent jurisdiction. The only remedy is by appeal, or error, or by a rehearing, or review; 4 Ohio
Rep. 330 ; or unless there has been fraud in the opposite party ;
or finally pure accident, without any fault or negligence of himself,
or of his agents. 4 Ohio Rep. 492; 5 Ohio Rep. 183.
5. A d~cree which puts an end to the suit is not the less final
because it is subject, within a limited time, to be reversed upon a
bill of review. -5 Ohio Rep. 460.
I have alluded several times to the admitted fact in this case,
that both of the parties litigant are British subjects, claiming this
.property as heir at common law, both claiming descent from a
common ancestor, both related to the testator in the degree of
second cousins, and both claiming as eldest sons through those,
respectively, whom each avers to have been the eldest son of Thomas Aspden, the' common ancestor,,- Jjhn Aspden of London
claiming through John Aspden Ist, of Kent, whom he alleges to
have been the eldest son of that Thomas ; and John Aspden of
Lancaster claiming thrQugh William Aspden, whom he alleges
was the eldest son of tIat Thomas Aspden, the admitted common

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

489

Asj den et.al. v. Nixon et al.

ancestor. In respect to proof, the London Aspdens have not
only utterly failed to give any, either legal or moral, but no less
-than three decrees have been pronounced against their claim ;
one in the British Chancery, as has been often stated, the second in the British Court of .Exchequer, and the third in the
Circuit Court of the United States, upon their first application.
John of Lancaster, on the other hand, gave such evidence of his
pedigree and heirship as satisfied the master in his two reporfs,
and also the court, after the most diligent inquiry. Thus, then,
the matter now stands, as between these two British subjects. But
Aspden of London, after nearly ten years of merely nominal pros-'
ecution, has now planted himself in such a position in an American
court of equity as to call upon that court utterly to disregard all
that was done in the British tribunals, and to take no cognizance
of his neglects there ; and yet further, that John of Lancasters
advantageous position, after all his proofs, and the decree in his
favor; should also be wholly disregarded, and tht'he of London
should be now as favorably dealt with. in the American court as
if nothing had ever been done either in that court or in the tribunals of his own country !.
Passing by, for the present, all that has been done in the Circuit Court in support of John Aspden of Lancaster's claim, and
looking exclusively to all that John Aspden of London has not
done in England during ten years, and in this country during ten
years more, the inquiry naturally is (when we find these two British subjects interpleading in this court), - Shall John of London,
when contending merely with Jobn of Lancashire, be regarded by
this court in precisely the same light as if he had been originally
and regularly prosecuting his claim in this court, and had never
been in any way concluded in the tribunals of his own country ?for to that extent does he now claim! Nixon, and-now Trotter,
are to be.regarded, at all times"., as mere stakeholders. The ex-ecutor of Matthias, the testator, was -alled on to account for this
estate to one or- the other of two British subjects ; John Aspden
of London's claim to heirship was pronounced by chancery to be
without proof; not, indeed, that he had brought some proof, and
there stopped, and that the court pronounced that proof Worthless,
-but
that, after five years, he could produce no proof at all, and hence the court regarded that as an irresistible presumption
that none existed, and so decreed. Another forum, of his own
voluntary selection, also decreed that the firot decree was valid,
final, and conclusive ; and shall not these two decrees avail here
to the same extent as there ? Are they not res judicatce, that the
fact of John Aspden's heirship does not exist ? That in England this fact is for ever established is beyond all question,every court in that island would at once decide that this fact was
re3 judicala. This being clearly so, why shall John of London
62

49O

SUPREIME COURT.
Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

be now permitted to cast all this to the winds, and say to his relative and co-subject, "Here are.copies of my former bills in British courts ; I file them now in an American court, with a few verbal alterations ; we must now have another ten. years of litigation
here ! " for such,*in truth, is the alleged right of John Aspden of
London ! Is it not, therefore, fit, moral, and legal' to accord to
John of London (seeking equity here) exactly that, and no more
nor less, than what the tribunals of his own country would give,
and have given ? Why should one British -subject have a measure of justice extended to him against another British subject,
which the tribunals of their common country have refused to
give ? And why should the court here close its eyes to all past
neglects, to all the presumptions of actual want of proof involved
in the fact of those neglects ? ,Inter ipsos, the decrees are not foreign, but domestic ; and, whether the one or the other, thr. decision at least of the Exchequer ought to close the controversy.
And here I am reminded of the very sensible and pertinent language of the late excellent Judge Washington, in the case of
Green v. Sarmiento, 1 Peters's C. C. Rep. 80. "But it is objected," says the judge, "that the judgment may be unjust upon
the merits of' the case, or erroneous in point of law; and it is asked, shall such a decision be submitted to by the courts of another
state ? I answer, that the contrary of all this ought to be presumed ; and let me ask in rqtum, what state (or nation) stands sw.
preeminent for knowledge and virtue, as to say with confidence,
that the judgments of her courts would be more just, or more
consonant to law, than those that have already passed on it ? I
concede that the objection may sometimes be well founded, but
I am far from admitting that in all cases the evil would be remedied by a reexamination before another tribunal, and the general
good forbids that this should be done."
These foreign judgments, then, which stand unimpeached by
fraud, or irregularity, or by any internal infirmity, should have
accorded to them'(especially when 'the matter of controversy rests
between subjects of the same nation) precisely that effect, and no
more, which would be given were the matter interpleaded by
them in the courts of their own country; what that is, we know,
and has been decided in this very case, and should be eve ywhere ;
for if a contrary doctrine be adopted, foreigners would have nothing more to do than to litigate their rights vexatiously and dilatorily.for years in the equity tribunals of their own country, and
when there ousted, carry on an equally annoying procedure in our
tribunals, hoping to gain at length a portion of that, a title to the
whole of which they have utterly failed to establish at their home,
and hi the midst of that very evidence which would have served
them had it in fact existed.
I shall now proceed to cite some further of the leading cases

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

491

Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

and authorities, and to remark upon a few; all of which, as it
seems to me, can leave no doubt that such decrees as are relied
on in the present pleas in bar will be regarded by this court, and

all other courts, as conclusive ; and therefore that the pleas will be
sustained.
(1.) In regard to foreign judgments, a distinction was early taken

between a suit directly upon the judgment-to enforce it in another
tribunal, and the case where a party sets up a. foreign judgment
merely in bar and defensively ; and, in the former case, it has been
held that the foreign judgment is only prima facie correct, as no
nation should be bound actively to enforce the decision of a foreign
tribunal ; but that in the latter case, where it is used in defence
only, the losing party has no right to institute a suit for the same
matter elsewhere, and that if he does so, the judgment shall-be regarded as res judicata, if exempt from fraud, and the jurisdiction
were competent that pronounced it. Admitting this distinction,
argument! gratia, the present case belongs to this second class ;
the decrees are used defensively, and the exceptio rei judicatc is
said by the same authorities to be entitled to that full measure of
respect everywhere. Boucher v. Lauson, Cases rtemp. Hardw.
89 ; Phillipi v. Hunter, 2 Hen. Black. 410 ; Story's Conflict of
Laws, 500.
This distinction, however, just as it may be, has been much questioned ever since, and in favor of a less extended doctrine of conclusiveness. Mlansfield, Buller, Blackstone, Eyre, and others
sustain the doctrine of revision ; Nottingham, Hardwicke, Kenyon,
Ellenborough, and the current of more modern authorities, down to
the present hour, repudiate the distinction, and are disposed to inquire into no foreign decrees or judgments further than, first, as to
the competency of the court ; second, the absence of all fraud ;
third, whether (admitting the decree to the fullest extent) it do-es,
in point of fact, embrace the matter in controversy. To this third
class of admissible inquiries belongs the ordinary case of a foreign
sentence of condemnation as prize, -which is no bar to proof that
the property was in fact neutral, as there may be many other grounds
of condemnation than that of enemy's property. To the same class,
also, belong all of those cases at law which do not regard decrees
in equity, in certain cases ; because equity may well reject a claim
which the law would enforce, and e converso. But, with the exception of these' three classes of inquiry, the sound doctrine would
seem to be, that the decree is res judicata, whether used affirmatively and to be enforced by a plaintiff, or defensively as against
the claim of a plaintiff. But still, without ijow insisting upon an
extension of the doctrine, which our case does not need, we repose
with great confidence on the opinion of Lord Chief Justice Eyre,
who, though he takes side with Lord Mlansfield in the case of
Walker *v. Witter, in permitting a foreign decree to be looked into,

492

SUPREME COURT.
Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

when directly sued on, and asked to be enforced, is equally strong
in his rejecting all such right when the foreign'decree is used (as in
the present case) only as a defensive bar. "If we had the
means," said that able 'judge, "we could not- examine a judgment of a foreign court, that is brought before us in this manner,
It is in one way only that the decree
by the defendant as a. a
or judgment of a foreign court is examinable in our courts, and that
is, when the party who claims the benefit of it applies to our courts
to -enforce it. When it is thus voluntarily submitted to our jurisdiction, we treat it as a matter in pais, respect it primafacie, but
examine as we do a promise ; but in all other cases we give entire
faith atd credit to foreign judgments, and consider them as conclusive upon us." Phillips v. Hunter, 2 Hen. Black. 410. Our case,
however, needs no more than tis very doctrine ; and, if we produce yet stronger cases, it is only to manifest more' clearly the
earnestness with which courts, at this day, sustain every means of
terminating vexatious litigation, and cherish that repose so essential
to the security of property and the peace of society.
And here I cannot avoid citing the remarks of Lord Kames,
when he is arguing in favor of a distinction between foreign decrees
that sustain a claim, and those which dismiss a claim. He' thinks
the former more examinable than the latter ; and though the distinction is in favor of the decree at this time in controversy, as he
regards a dismissal as more exempt from inquiry than a decree that
sustains a claim, yet, as I cannot but regard his argument as rather
more specious than solid, I now'cite with pleasure the remarks with
which he. closes his discussion of the distinction alluded to. "'Puh
ie utility," says he, "affords another argument extremely cogent.
There is nothing more hurtful to society than that lawsuits be perpetual. In every lawsuit there ought to be a ne plus ultra; some
step should be ultimate ; and a decree dismissing a claim is in its
nature ultimate." 2 Kames on Equity, 364. To apply, in a word,
these remarks to the present case, let it be borne in mind, as has
been often remarked, that the dismissal was for a total want- of
proof, after five years of litigation, - raising, as the court justly
thought, a presumptio juris et jure of the non-existence of the alleged fact of heirship ; that decree, moreover, was confirmed as
resjudicataby a tribunal of the present claimant's own election ;
and lastly, all subsequent time has confirmed the wisdom of the preceding decisions, as the Aspdens of London are still proofless.
(2.) In the case of Bowles v. Orr, 1 Younge & Collyer's Exch.
Rep. 464, it was held that a foreign judgment is equally conclusive as an English judgment ; but that it, like all other judgments,
may be set aside here in equity, for fraud, &c., ,and the Lord Chief
Baron, at page 468, observes, that " As the bill does not state under what circumstanceg the judgment was recovered, I must presume it was in respect of the same matters as are contained in the

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

493

Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

bill. Then, if so, it will be conclusive against the account sought.
According to modern decisions, a foreign judgment is as conclusive against the debtor as an English one can be ; and Martin v.
Nicholls, 3 Simons, 458, is an authority to show that a foreign
judgment is conclusive against the plaintiff."
(3.) I will now state the case of Martin v. Nicholls, relied upon
in the above case of Bowles v. Orr.
That case, in 3 Simons, 458, seems to go the whole length of
abolishing the distinction taken by some judges between a proceeding to enforce a foreign decree, and where it is used only defensively, that is, in bar. The case was this. A bill was filed for
discovery, and also for a commission to take proof to impeach a
foreign judgment rendered in favor of the present defendant, who
was then a suitor in the Common Pleas to enforce that judgment.
Upon demurrer by the defendant in equity, he argued, that, unless
the foreign judgment can be questioned in England, and the
-grounds taken he such as would be a defence to an action on that
judgment, the complainant's bill cannot be sustained. The vicechancellor stated that the present defendant had recovered a judgment in Antigua, and complainant relies upon the case of Walker V.
Witter, Doug. R. 1,as authority for questioning that judgment,
which is sought to be enforced in the Common Pleas. " Were I
to allow this bill," says the chancellor, "it would be in effect saying, that the judgment in Antigua may be overruled by the Court
of Coramon Pleas," and therefore he sustained the demurrer.
Now, here it will be seen, that the vice-chancellor, finding the
court of Antigua a competent tribunal, and that no fraud, or want
of jurisdiction was alleged, deals with the foreign -judgment as res
judicata, and as conclusive even where sought to be enforced.
He regarded the doctrine of Walker v. Witter as advancing a
frivolous distinction ; and he preferred the old opinions, and the
doctrine of conclusiveness sustained by Nottingham, Hardwicke,
Kenyon, Ellenborotigh, &c., to that of Lord Mansfield. Happily
we have no occasion, in the case now before the Supreme Court, -to
take sides in this controversy ; for, whether Walker v. Witter bb
the sound law, or Martin v. Nicholls, and Bowles v. Orr,"&c., be
the better law, is to us quite immaterial, since in our case we seek
not to enforce a foreign decree ; but only to rely upon it as a defensive bar ; and for that purpose there seems to be a great uanmity of opinion ; for Lord Chief Baron Eyre, who entirely adopted
Lord Mansfield's distinction, is yet very emphatic in his expression,
as we have just seen, that foreign decrees are final and conclusive
when defensively relied on ; and this is all we have occasion to invoke. The stronger and more thorough cases, in which the earlier
judges, as well as those of the present day, have agreed with Lord
Hardwicke,
and his is a lustrous narpq,
- "that where any
court, foreign or domestic, that hai the proper jurisdiction of the
VOL. TV.

VP

494

SUPREME COURT.
Aspden et a]. r. Nixon et al.

case, makes the determination (and it be free from fraud) it is conclusive on all other courts," are nevertheless cases that need not
be urged by us in the present case ; and are only now referred to
inearnest support of the doctrine to the medium extent of our own
case, and with no tilt of legal knight-errantry in support of one
class of judges against another class. Both classes entirely concur, that, relied on as a defensive bar, foreign decrees are, and of
right ought to, be, conclusive. The doctrine, to that extent, is
surely one of repose, of judicial policy, and even necessity ; it is
a doctrine of justice, and of public policy also, since it inculcates
vigilance, and teaches suitors, and those cited into courts, that they
should not sleep over their rights, and must not deal with the tribunals of justice as mere organs of legal delay, to exhaust the patience and worry out the life and purse, in order ultimately perhaps
to obtain, by compromise, a portion of that which the indolent or
unjust know they can never obtain by proofs.
In the case of Tarlton v. Tarlton, 4 Maule & Selw. 20, the
court goes to the full extent, and beyond, what we have need for.
In that case, which was at law, a decree in a foreign court was
relied on. The defendant stated that the decree had been obtained
against him pro confesso, for want of an answer, whereupon sequestration had issued, and the amount levied on the property of the
plaintiff,, who had been his partner in trade ; but that the account
had been erroneously taken, &c., &c. Lord Ellenborough ruled
that the decree was conclusive, and that the defendant could not be
peimitted to question the accuracy of the account taken ; that a
decree pro confesso, for want of answer, was res iudicata; and that,
as such, it was binding and conclusi'-e, - his Lordship emphatically
adding, that I I had not thought I was sitting at nisi prius to try a
writ of error to correct the proceedings of a foreign court !"
Also, in the case of Richard Raynel Keen v. John M'Donough,
8 Peters's S. C. Rep. 308, a decree was pronounced by a Spanish
tribunal in Louisiana, after the cession of that dominion, but whilst
it was, de facto, in possession' of Spain. The court held, that, as
the txbunal still had jurisdiction, the decree was valid and conclusive.
In 2 Story on Equity Jurisprudence, p. 911, § 1523,'it is stated,
that "1 A former dacree in a suit in equity, between the same parties, and for the same subject-mittter, is also a good defence, even
although it be a decree dismissing the bill, if the dismissal is not
expressed to be without prejudice. Here, the courts of equity
act in analogy to the law in some respects, - but not in all, - for
the dismissal of a suit at law, or even a judgment at law, is not, in
all cases, a good bar to another actior."
We here see, that, although equity may follow the law, and deal
with a naked dismissal of a bill, "-for mere want of prosecution,"
as a nonsuit, and hence no bar, yet that a dismissal of the other
kind, such as5 in the present case, the dismissal on. hearing, atid for

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

495

Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

want of proof, is a decree, and conclusive ; and so the Court of
Exchequer pronounced this very decree in chancery to be, and
accorded to it the entire weight of res judicata ; and the same
learned'author, in his treatise on the Conflict of Laws, p. 515,
remarking upon the doctrine of conclusiveness adopted by Holland,
on the basis of reciprocity, seems to entirely approve of the doctrine upon that substantive ground, even were the authorities silent
on the.subject, and the matter, instead of being so often d6cided,
were at this time, as I suppose, an open question. If, then, reciprocity be an additional reason, as it certainly is, there seems to
be a very special fitness in regarding the present decrees as conclusive, seeing, 1st, the thoroughness of the present British doctrine,
and how great would be the respect accorded by their courts to the
decisions of our tribunals ; 2d, adverting also to the fact that the
present controversy is solely between British subjects ; 3d, bearing
also in mind that this is a question of British law, and of British
chancery practice, and that the c9mplainant, Aspden of London,
after his five years' tarrying in chancery, and dismissal for want of
proof, submitted to another tribunal of his own country the legal
effect of that dismissal, which second tribunal pronounced it to be
res judicata, and conclusive. On every principle, then, even of
reciprocity and of comity, in addition to all the other reasons that
have been urged, it is not doubted but that the Supreme Court will
sustain those pleas in bar, and with the greater alacrity, as it may
well be asked, Cui bono overrule them, as there is every moral certainty tha' it can .only tend to another series of proofless delays ?
(4.) The dismissal of bills in equity in our own-courts nave often
been held conclusive, as in the case of Holliday v. Coleman, 2
Munf. Rep. 162. In that case no evidence was exhibited on either
side ; defendant demurred to coriplainant's bill, and also answered
in detail ; the demurrer was zustained, and the bill dismissed. The
complainant filed another bill, and the decree of dismissal was
pleaded in bar. Ths court sustained the plea in bar, and said, " A decree by a court of competent jurisdiction, dismissing a bill,
is a complete bar to another original bill to try the same deed ; the
proper remedy, if such decree be erroneous, being by appeal, writ
of error, supersedeas, cr bill of review."
A'gain. In the case of the Bank of the United Stat~s v. Beverly, I Howard's S. C. Rep. 134, it was held, that " An
answer in chancery, setting up as a defence the dismission of a
former bill between the same parties, and for the same matter, is
not sufficient, unless the record be exhibited."
The conclusion
from this non-production of the record must be, that, if the record
be exhibited, the dismissal is conclusive. So likewise, in the case
of V[right z,.
Diklyne, 1 Peters's C. C. Rep.'199, the court held,
that " the dismission of a bill in chancery is not conclusive against
the complainant in a court of law, but that in a court of equity such

496

SUPREME COURT.
Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

dismissal would be a bar to a new bill" ; and the obvious reason
is, because there are cases at law that will not be sustained in
equity, and therefore the dismissal of a bill in equity could only
be evidence that, as an equitable demand, it was not sustainable .
but where the decree of dismissal is defensively used in a court of
equity, such dismissal is final and conclusive, and for the reverse
reason, unless impugned on the ground of fraud.

To the same

effect is the case of McDowell v. McDowell, 1 Bailey's Eq.
Rep. 324.
"When a matter has once been adjudicated by a
competent jurisdiction, it shall not again be drawn in question ; nor
will parties be permitted again to litigate what they had once an
opportunity of litigating; and whatever might properly have been
put in issue in that proceeding shall be concluded to be a thing.
determined."
The cases of McClure v. Miller, Henderson v.
Mitchell, and Marigarth v. Deas, 1 Bailey's Eq. Rep. 170, 113,
284, are all confirmatory, and strongly in point. Even upon a petition for a rehearing, if the party had knowledge of the evidence,
or, by reasonable diligence or inquiry, might have obtained it, be
will not be entitled to relief. Baker v. Whiting, 1 Story's Rep.
218 ; Heller v. Jones, 4 Binney, 60 ; Heimes v. Jacobs, 1 Penn.
Rep. 152. Many hundi ad cases might be shown, all evincive .of
the determination of courts, as a fundamental rule of judicial policy
and necessity, to sustain the vigilant, and to manifest no special
favor, at least, to the grossly negligent. With what pretence of
claim, then, can the Aspden family of London expect from this
court the high and very special favor of litigating this case, which
would not be retained a moment in the courts of their own country,
after it could reach the chancellor's eye in judgment, and also when
this court has a mountain of proof, that here, as well as there, they
have played a part of most vexatious delay for nearly the fourth of
a century ! In the language, then, of a distinguished American
lawyer, Mr. Justice Kent,- I will now conclude, taking to myself
no little shame for the great length and the too immethcdical character of the observations I have made on this case, - a case, I
confess, that has greatly interested me, because of the shameful
delays that have been produced by the London Aspens, - a case,
too, in which no legal alchemy, even, could extract a scintilla of
evidence of right on their part ! "Every person is bound," says
Judge Kent, " to take care of his own rights, and to vindicate them
in due season, and in proper order. This is a sound and salutary
principle of law. Accordingly, if he neglects to use them, and
suffers a recovery to be had against him by a competent tribunal,
he is for ever precluded."
" The general rule is intended to prevent litigation, and to preserve peace ; and were it otherwise, men
would never know when they might repose with security on the
decisions of courts of justice; and judgments solemnly and deliberately given might cease to be revered, asbeing no longer the end

497

JANUARY TERM, 1846.
Aspden et al. v. Nixon et al.

of controversy apd the evidence of right."
502.

I Johns. Cases, 492,

Mr. Justice CATRON (after having stated the facts of the case
as they are recited in the commencement of this report) proceeded to deliver the opinion of the court.
We understand the true question submitted to this court to be,
whether the decree dismissing the bllQ, made by the High Court of'
Chancery in England, bars and precludes John A. Brown, the
Pennsylvania administrator of John Aspden of London, from prosecuting his claim asadinistrator for the Pennsylvania assets of
the estate of Matthias Aspden, found in the hands of Joseph Trotter, the present administrator, with the will annexed ; Nixon having
died, the contest in the British court was between an executor
there, and administrators also there ; the complainants sued. and the
defendant resisted the 'claim alike in a representative capacity,
and were restricted by the authority under which they respectively
acted to the limits of the country to which their letters extended.
Under his English letters testamentary, Nixon could do no act as
executor beyond England ; so neither could he voluntarily transfer
the Pennsylvania assets to the foreign jurisdiction, there to be distributed, as this would have been in violation of his letters in this
country ; by these he held the assets here as trustee, and in subordination to the laws of PennsylVania and the orders of the Orphan's
C.qurt executing those laws, as well as in subordination to the suit
pending in the Circuit Court.
So, on the other hand, on the death of John Aspden of London,
the bill in chancery ceased to be his bill, and became the suit of
the parties for whose benefit it was revived; when this was done,
they represenled John Aspden of London, as administrator of his
estate, and the same rules applied to them as to Matthias's executor ; they only represented the intestate by virtue of, and to the
e.vrant of, their English letters, and could not be known as representatives in Pennsylvania. Again., the representative character of
Nixon in England was altogether distinct from his character as executor hi Pennsylvania. And so, alae, the English administrators of
John Aspden's estate are equally distinct from Brown, who is the
administrator of his estate in Pennsylvania. It follows, the English
suit was between different parties from those prosecuting and defending the American suit ; and therefore neither the decree, nor
the proceedings on which it is founded, are competent evidence
between the parties to the present suit, for this reason ; and yet
more conclusively for another, which is, that the property in controversy here is distinct from that sued for in England.
As applicable to such a state of facts, the rules of evidence
governing courts of justice are, that a judgment or decree set up as a
bar by plea, or relied on as evidence by way of estoppel, to be conVOL. IV.

63

Pp *

498

SUPREME COURT.
Aspde-n

et al. v. Nixon et al.

elusive, must have been made, 1. by a court of competent jurisdiction upon the same subjectnatter ; 2. between the same parties ; 3. for the same purpos6 - and, on either'ground, the evidence
submitted to our judgment is incompetent to prove any thing in
regard to the Pennsylvania assets.
But these conclusions are resisted b7 those setting up the bar on
,this ground, - that the administiation of the, domicile is the principal
administration on the estate of Matthias Aspden, and this being in
England, and the assumed devisee's residence, also being there, the
Pennsylvania administration was auxiliary lb the foreign one ; that
in the British suit the American assots might have been recovered
from the executor Nixon, the bill having gone for the Pennsylvania
assets, as well as the English. gowever true'it may be, in cases peculiarly circumstanced, that
one jurisdiction administering assets may, as matter of comily,
transmit them to a foreign jurisdiction, there to be distributed ; 'still,
the doctrine can have no application here, as no assets had been
transmitted to England from Pennsylvania, and a suit was pending,
and in no part decided, in this country for the American assets, before and at the time the decree in England was made ; and therefore an assumption to distribute the assets in this country by the
High Court o Chancery in England, must necessarily have been
-treated by the Circuit Court as merely void for want of jurisdiction
of the'subject-matter in the foreign court. Even up to this date,
the American court could exercise no comity, as is manifest from
the state of the proceedings before us ; nor will there be any occasion for its exercise hereafter, as all the parties claiming the estate
are before the Circuit Court, anxiously litigating their claims, and
seeking distribution at its hands.
It is proper, however, to remark, in this connection, that the
courts of the United States held in Pennsylvania are administering the laws of tht State, and bound by the same rules governing
the local tribunals; and that by these laws a devisee, before he can
take a legacy, must give security that if any debt or demand should
afterwards be recovered against the estate of the testator, the
devisee shall refund. Purdon's Dig., Ex. 4" .Jd., §§ 41,47. So,
also, there are many other provisions in the laws of Pennsylvania
governing the distribution of estates that would embarrass the
Orphan's Courts in exervising the comity referred to. The like
laws exist in other States of the Union ; and, under the influence
of such laws, the courts of the* States have been so much restrained, as to render an exercise of comity among each other
little more than a barren theory ; nor could more be required in a
case like the present, where part of the assets were administered
abroad, under independent letters granted there, and by a tribunal
that was under no obligations to extend comity to the probate courts

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.,

499

Aupden et al. v. Nixon et al.

of this country, whatever might be done in the exercise of a sound
discretion.
Tne next ground, and that relied on with most confidence in
support of the bar, is, that John Aspden of London, and those
representing him after his death, were British subjects, residing in
Great Britain, tnd that the contest and only matter litigated in the
High Court of Chancery was, whether John Aspden of London
was-or was not the heir and consequent devisee of Matthias Aspden ; and that this fact having been found by the decree against
the complainants established and concluded all proof to the contrary of such adjudication, directly on the single fact of title ; and
that the representatives of John of London could not be heard
in another jurisdiction to disavow the conclusiveness of the finding by a court of their own government, to which they had rasorted.
That the English bill involved directly the question of heirship,
and that nothing else was contested, is undoubtedly true ; but it is
equally true, that no evidence was introduced by the complainants
there to establish their title, nor was there had any adjudication on
the merits of their claim ; so that no equitable considerations are
'violated by our present judgment, in any aspect that the evidence
may be viewed.
What effect the decree has in England is a question for the
courts of that country to settle ; nor will we now determine whether, in our judgrrent, by the comity of nations, the proceedings
should have a similar effect here ; or what effect they should have.
The .question for us -to dispose of is, whether the administrator and
distributees of John Aspden of London shall be heard in the
Circuit Court, or whether their evidence of title is barred ? We
have already stated that the Pennsylvania assets stand unaffected,
and will only add, that -the assumption that a complainant or plaintiff is estoppedi by a judgment against him, from introducing vidence in a second suit, and in another country, for other property,
on the ground that the fact of title had been adjudged and concluded by a former judgment or decree (thus separating the title
from the property), is an abstract proposition, inconsistent with the
due administration of justice, and not recognized in our system of
jurisprudence, or that of Great Britain, and is aside from any
question affecting the comity of nations.
Giving the British decree all the force and effect that could be
accorded to it if it had been made in a State of this Union, it yet
establishes no fact, as respects any title to the Pennsylvania assets;
nor would the rules of evidence be sufficient in separate suits,
pending in the same court, for different parcels of property, even
between the same parties. And therefore we certify to the Circuit Court, that the evidence introduced "Itouching the plea in
bar" is no estoppel to the representatives of John Aspden of

00

SUJP1LM

COURT.

Downes v. Scott.

London, in so far as they seek to recover the assets of Matthias
Aspden's estate in the course of administration by the Orphan's
Court of Philadelphia county. Further than this, we do not pretend to determine on the effect of the evidence, as we are not
aware that any controversy now exists in the Circuit Court in regard to any otler assets.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern Dis.nct of Pennsylvania, and on the point and question on which the
judges of the &aid Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and
which was certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the
act of. Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, It' is the opinion of this
court, that the evidence introduced " touching the plea in bar"1 is
no estoppel to Xhe representatives of John Aspden of London, in
so far as they seek to recover the assets of Matthias Aspden's
esate in -the course of administration by the Orphan's Court of
Philadelphia county ; whereupon it is now here ordered and decreed by this court, that it be certified to the said Circuit Court
accordingly.
Dissen
," Mr. Chief Justice TANEY and Mr.
Justice

MCLEAN.

RiCmARD

CHARLEs Dowims,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.

WILLIAM

S.

'ScoTT, DFxENDANT.
The second section of the act of the 29th of May, 1830, providing, that "if two or
more persons be settled Upon the same quarter-section, the same may be divided
between the two first actual settlers, if by a north and south, or east and west,
'line the settlement or improvement" of each can. be included in a half-quartersection;" refien only to tracts of land containing one hundred and sixty acres, and
does not 9perate upon one containing only one hundred and thirty-three acres.
Thereforewhere tenants in common of a tract of one hundred and thirty-three
acres applied to a State court for a partition under the above act, the judgment
of that court cannot be revipwed by this court, when brought up by writ of error
pnder the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act, because the right asserted
does nbt arise under an act of Congress.
-The writ 'f error must be dismissed.

-Tins.case

was brought up from the Ninth Judicial District
Coprt of the State of Louisiana, by a writ of error issued under
the twenty-fifth'section of the judiciary act.
.Mr. Crittenden, for the defendant in error, moved to dismiss
the wit for the following reasons. Because, -

