SUPREME COURT.

574

Barry r. Mercein et ah

And we shall direct this opinion to be certified to the Circuit Court,
as the answer to the several questions stated in the certificate of
division. We abstain from giving a specific answer to each question, because, as we have already said, some of them do not appear
to arise out of the case, .and, upon questions of that description,
we deem it most advisable not to express an opinion.

JOHN

A.

BARY, PLAINTIFF In ERROR, V. MA

XY
MEECEIN AND ELIT.ZA

ANN BARy, DEFENDANTS.
After a case has been called, and placed at the foot of the docket, the court cannot
take it .up, on motion, and assign a day for its argument, when other cases, of
greapublio importance, have already been assigned for what may be the remainder oiJthe term.

TnE circumstances which led to the interlocutory opinion of the
court in this case are sufficiently set forth in the memorial of Mr.
Barry, and the opinion of the court.
The memorial was as follows: "To their Honors, the Justices of the Supreme Court of the
United States of America.
"The memorial of John A. Barry respectfully represents, that
he is a British subject, domiciled and resident abroad within the dominions of her Britannic Majesty ; that, for some considerable time
past, he.has had upon the docket of this honorable court a highly
important and most interesting case, on a writ of error to the Circbit Court for the Southern District of New York : that, consequently, he came over, to these -United States in November, 1844,
to attenal to the said case it the last term of this honorable court ;
but the number of the case being 128, he wai greatly disappointed
in being obliged to -return to his home without its having been
reached : that he has now again come over to this country for the
purpose of meeting the said case ; but, owing to an unusual length
of passage, did not prrive at Boston until after this honorable court
had commenced its present session : that it was his intention, and
full expectation, to have been before this honorable court whenever
the said case (No. 72) on the present calendar should be called ;
but, owing to an attack of bodily indisposition, he was detained in
New York until he became apprehensive that he might not be enabled
to be present at the call of the said case in its regular order: that he
thereupon wrote a letter to W. T. Carroll, Esq.,.the clerk of this
honorable court, intimating his said apprehension, in order that,
should it be realized, the cause thereof might be communicated to

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

575

Barry v. Mercein et al.

your Honors, in the hope that, under the circumstances, your
Honors would be pleased to permit the case to be passed over
without prejudice until your memorialist': arrival in Washington:
that he received an answer from the said W. T. Carroll, Esq.,
acknowledging his receipt of the said letter, but informing your memorialist that, unfortunately, the case had been reached only the day
before, when, agreeably to the forty-third rule of court, the said case
was placed at the fo6t of the calendar : that, in the event of its so
remaining, your memorialist will, if he sball live, be necessitated to
come again - a third time - to this country, at the next setting of
this honorable court, as no probability exists that the case can be
reached, in its new position, during the present term.
".Your memorialist, therefore, respectfuly prays, hat, in consideration of the foregoing premises, and further, that the case is one
in relation to the writ of habeas corpus, in favor of liberty, in pro.ceedings on which courts are accustomed to relax that stringency
of technical requirement so strenuously adhered to and insisted on
in ordinary formal suits at law, the said forty-third..rule of court may
not be enforced on the present occasion ; but that your memorialist
may be heard. ift the matter at such earlier day as may comport
with the convenience of your Honors, or be appointed for the put
pose by this honorable court.
JOHN A. "BARRY.
WVashington, D. C., February 6th, 1846."
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
In the case of John A. Barry v. Mary Mercein aad Eliza Ann
Barry, a motion was made on Friday last by the plaiatiff in error
to assign some day during the present term for the argument. A
.petition was filed at the last term by one of the defendants in error,
praying that the writ of error might"be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The case in the regular order of business was called on
the 15th day of January last, and neither party appearing, it was,
according to the rules of the court, placed at the foot of the calendar ; and it is now evident, from the number of cases standing before it, that it cannot be reached during the present term, unless
by a special order of the court giving it priority.
There afe two questions in the case, both of them grave and
serious ones ; - 1st. Whether this court have jurisdiction upon a
writ of error in a case like this ; and, 2d. If it should be determined
that it has jurisdiction, then, whether the Circuit Court committed
an error in refusing to bward the habeas corpus.
As this controversy, while it continues undecided, must be a
painful one to the parties on both sides, the court feel every disposition to bring it to a speedy hearing, if it could be done without
injustice to others ; and if the.motion to assign a day was liable to
no other objection than that it would be a departure from the
order of business prescribed by the rules, there would be no diffi-

SUPREME COURT.

576

Bradford

et al. v. Williams.

culty in making this case an exception, and assigning a day for the
hearing.
But at the present period of the term, the assignment of a particular day for the trial of this case involves other and higher considerations than that of a mere departure from established rules.
In four or five weeks, at farthest, the court will be compelled to
close its session, in order to enable its members to perform their
duties at the circuits ; and several important cases, some of which
cannot be continued without producing much public inconvenience
in three or more of the States, have already been specially assigned for argument, and the order in which they are to he taken up
announced from the bench ; and in obedience to this notice counsel
have been for- some time past, and still are, attending to argue them.
It is very doubtful whether enough remains of the term to enable
the court to dispose of these cases, and it is probable that one or
more of them may of necessity be continued. Under such circumstances, we cannot, without injustice to others and inconvenience to the public in several of the States, make a new and unexpected arrangement in the order of business, by which another
case, not entitle( to priority,-is interposed out of its proper order.
The case in question must, therefore, stand over until the next
term.

EDWARD BRADFORD, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. ROBERT W. WILLIAMS,
DEFENDANT, AND JOHN JUDGE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. ROBERT

W.

WILLIAMS, DEFENDANT.

By a statute of Florida, where suit is brought upon a bond, the plaintiff need not
prove its execution unless the defendant denies it under oath. It also provides
that such an instrument may be assigned; that the assignee becomes vested with
all the rights of the assignor, and may bring suit in his own name.

Under this statute, where a joint and several bond was signed by three obligors
and made payable to three obligees, one of whom was also one of the obligors,
and the obligees assigned the bond, the fact that one of the obligors was also an
obligee was no valid defence in a suit brought by the assignee against the two
other obligors.
The inability of one of the obligees to sue himselfdid not impair the vitality ofthe
bofid, but amounted only to an objection to a recovery in a court of law. The
ficulty. ent, and ability of the.assignee to sue in his own name, removed this difThe statute of Florida places bonds, as far as respects negotiability and the right
of the assignee to sue in hi own name, upon the same footing as bills of exchange and promissory notes. The case, therefore, fIlls within the principle of
a partner drawing a bill upon his house, or making a note in the name of the
., payable to his own order, both of which are valid in the hands of a bond
sidrholder.

THSEs

were kindred cases, argued and decided together. Brad-

ford and Judge were obligors upon the same bonds,- although'sued
separately, and the same questions were common to both cases.

