JANUARY TERM, 1846.

449

Lea Bois v. Brameil.

MA= NICOLIn LES Bois,

PLAINTIFF

IN

ERIOR, V. SAMUEL

BnA-

MELL, DEFENDANT.
A private survey of land, claimed under an old Spanish concession and presented
to the board of commissioners appointed under the act of 1805, is not conclusive
against the party presenting it to show the boundaries of the claim, but is proper
evidence to go to the jury, who are to decide upon its limits.
Under the acts of 1824, 1826, and 1828, the District Court of Missouri was authorized to receive petitions of claimants to land, until the 26th of May, 1829. In
1831, when claims which had not been presented were standing under a bar,
Congress confirmed the title of the inhabitants of the town of St. Louis to the
adjacent commons. This act was valid, unless the opposing claimant then possesed a vested interest which was protected by the Louisiana treaty.
By the third article of that treaty, the inhabitants were to be protected in their
property.
But land held under a concession and survey was not finally severed from the
royal domain and converted into private property.
The power ofigranting the public domain was in Morales, who resided in New
Orleans. His regulations were in force in Upper Louisiana, and by them the
title to land held under a concession and survey was not perfected until ratified
by him and a final grant issued.
This power was in a great degree a political power,and, by the treaty, the UnitedStates assumed the same exclusive right to seal with the title,
in their political
and "sovereign capacity. The courts of justice cannot, without legislation,
execute the power, because the holder of an incomplete title has no standing in
court.

A confirmatory act, passed by Congress in 1836,does'not reach back to'the original
concession, and exclude grants of the same land made in the intermediate time,
either by Congress itself, or a board of commissioners, or the District Court,
atting under its authority.
In the act of 1836, Congress had in view the situation of persons whose titles
were, by that act, confirmed to lands which had been previously granted to
others, and, in order to meet the case, provided that such confirmed claimants
might take up, elsewhere, an amount of public land equal to that which they
lost.
The confirmatory act of 1836 must, therefore, be construed to exclude the commons which had been granted, by previous acts, to the town of St. Louis.
These acts, and a survey by the proper public officer in 1832, placed the title of the
town in the same condition as if a patent had been issued.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, frdm the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Missouri.
It was exactly the same, in most of its points, with the case of
Mackay and others v. Dillon, reported in a preceding part of ts
volume. Reference will be made to that case in all the points
which are similar.
It was an action of ejectment brought by Les Bois, in the Circuit Court, to recover two hundred and forty-four arpents and fifty
perches of land, claimed under a Spanish concession. The defendant, Bramell, claimed title under the acts of Congress of 1812
and 1831, granting a right of common to the town of St. Louis.
The plaintiff's title was as follows.
1. A petition, concession, and survey.
2. Proceedings of the board of commissioners established by
the act of. Congress passed on the 2d of March, 1805.
VOL. IV.

57

Im *

450

SUPREME COURT.
Les Bois v. Bramell.

3. Proceedings of the board of commissioners established bythe acts of July 9th, 1832, and March 2d, 1833.
4. The act of Congress passed on the 4th of July, 1836.
5. A certificate of the surveyor of the public lands, dated September 6, 1838.
These will be taken up in order.
I. A petition, concession, and survey.
The petition was as follows:
"To Don Charles.Dehault DelassusJieutenant-colonel attached to
the stationary regiment of Louisiana, and lieutenant-governor
of the upper part of the same province.
Marie Nicolle Les Bois has the honor of representing to you,
that, having lost her-father and mother since her most tender years.,
in consequence of a well known disaster, which alone would be
sufficient to render her situation interesting to all men of feelings,
and having had for support since that moment an uncle and aunt,
both respectable, who have taken care of her infancy, considering
that time in his flight deprives her every day of some one of her
protectors ; that her brothers and sisters are all married, and loaded
with family, and without fortune ; that she remains as an isolated
being, who cannot expect any assistance of any one whomsoever ;
and who, -without fortune, finds herself under several points of view
in a calamitous situation, which hppeais to her to be worthy to attract the attention of the good heart every body knows you possess.
Full of this, idea, and convinced of the generosity of the government, which has never ceased to grant favors to the unfortunate,
and to be particularly the protector of orphans, she hopes you will
be pleased to grant to her the concession of a tract of land situated
to the south of this town, and being vacant lands of his Majesty's
domain, and which may contain two hundred and thirteen arpents in
superficie, more or less,; which land shall be bounded as follows :
to the north, south, and west, by the vacant lands of the domain,
and to the east by a concession of some width belonging to Mr.
Antonio Soulard.
" Such is. ih3 statement of my misfortune and pretensions, and
I presume to hope this favor of tie generosity of a benevolent and
generous government, and of a chief as worthy as you are to fulfil
its benevolent intentions.
MARIE NICOLLE LES BOIS.
" t. Louis, ,May 10, 1803."
-

-

The concession was as follows :" St. Louis of llinois, Atay 1 th, 1803.
c Having seen the foregoing statement, I do grant to Marie
Nicolle Les Bois, for her and her heirs, the land which she solicits,
in case it is not prejudicial to any person ; and the surveyor of this

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

451

Les Bois v. Bramell.

Upper Louisiana, Don Antonio Soulard, shall put the petitioner in
possession of the quantity of land she solicits in the place designated ; which, when executed, he shall draw out a plat of iurvey,
delivering the same to the party, with his certificate, in order to
serve to her to obtain the concessidn and title in form from the intendant-general, to whom alone corresponds, by royal order, the
distributing and granting of all classes of lands of the royal domain.
CARLOS DEHAULT DELASSUS,"
Of Survey. -

UpperLouisiana, District of Sn. Luis de Illinofs.

The survey was as follows :.Note. The bounds set to all comers. are showv on the plat.
All the line-trees were marked with one blaze above twonotches.
The trees on both sides of the lines were blazed only.
Registered in book B, of the surveys for said district, folio 17,
No. 20.
Of Certificate of Survey.
* cDon Antonio Soulard, surveyor-general of Upper Louisiana,.
I do certify that I have measured, run the lines, and bounded,
in favor of Marie Nicolle Les Bois, a piece of land of two hundred and forty-four arpents and fifty perches in superficie, measured with the perch of the city of Paris, of eighteen French feet
in length, lineal measure of the said city, according to the agrarian
measure of this province ; which land is situated at about the
distance of twenty-five arpents to the southwest of this town of
Saint Louis, and is bounded to the north-northwest by lands of
Don Santiago Mackay ; to the east-southeast by lands belonging
to me ; to the south-southwest in part by lands of Don Jh. Brazeau, and by vacant lands of the royal domain; and by the westsouthwest by vacant lands ; which measurement and survey I took
without regarding the variation of the needle, which is 700 30' east,
as is evident by the foregoing figurative plat, on which are noted
the dimensions, directions of the lines and limits, and other boundaries, &c.
"Said survey was executed by virtue of the memorial and decree of the lieutenant-governor and sub-delegate of the royal fisc,
Don Carlos Dehault Delassus, dated 11th May, 1803.
"In testimony whereof, I do give the present, with the- preceding figurative plat, executed by my exertions- on the 27th of
May of the current year, in St. Louis, August 20, 1803.
ANTONIO SOULARD, Surveyor- General.
"Truly translated, St. Louis, December 15, 1832.
JULIUS DE MUN."

4N

SUPREME COURT.
Les Bain v. "Bramell.

2. Proceedings of the board of commissioners established by
the act of Congress passed on the 2d of March, 1805.
Proceedings of Commissioners.
" Driday, October 7th, 1808.
"Board met. Present: The Honorable Clement B. Penrose
and Frederick Bates.
"1Marie Nicolle Les Bois, claiming two hundred and forty-four
and one half arpents of land, situated id the commons of St. Louis,
produces to the board a concession from Don Charles Dehault
elassus, lieutenant-governor for the same, dated May 11th, 1803;
a plat and certiacate of survey, dated 27th May, 1803, and certified 20th August, same year.
"Laid over for decision; board adjourned.
CLEMENT B. PENROSE.
FREDERICK BATES."
"Wednesday, qlugust 21st, 1811.
4' Board met. Present: Clement B. Penrose and Frederick
Bates, commissioners.
1"Marie Nicoile Les Bois, claiming two hundred and forty-four
and one half arpents of land, see book No. 3, p. 282. It is the
opinion of this board that this claim ought not to be confirmed.
"Board adjourned until to-morrow, eight o'clock, A. M.
CLEMENT B. PENROSE.
FREDERICK BATES."
3. Proceedings of the board of commissioners, established by
die acts of July 9, 1832, and March 2, 1833.
1 Thursday, .November 39, 1832.
"BoarA met pursuant to adjournment. Present: Lewis F. Linn
[and] F. R. Conway, commissioners.
"Marie. Nicolle Les Bois, by her legal representatives, claiming
two hundred and forty-four and a half arpents of land, see book C,
pp. 73, 74, and 75, No. 3, p. 282, No. 5, p. 328, produces a
paper, purporting to be an originpl concession for two hundred and.
thirteen arpents of land, more or less, from Charles Dehault DeLassus, dated 11th of.May, 1803 ; also a paper, purporting to be a
plat and certificate of survey for two hundred and forty-four arpents
4nd fifty perches, taken 27th of May, and certified 20th of August,
1S03,
. " M.byP.Antonio'
Leduc,Soulard.
duly sworn, saith, that the signature to said.
concession is in the proper handwriting of the said Charles D. Delassus, and the signature to said certificate of survey is in the proper
handwriting of said Soulard.
"The board adjourned until to-morrow at ten o'clock, A. M.
L. F. LINN.
F. R. CONWAY."

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

453

Les Bois v. Bramell.

No. 39.
"Tuesday, .November 5th, 1833.
c The board met pursuant to adjournment. Present: L. F.
Linn, A. G. Harrison, F. R. Conway, commissioners.
" Marie Nicolle Les Bois, claiming two hundred and forty-four
and a half arpents of land, see pp. 64 and 65 of.this book (No. 6).
The board are unanimously of opinion that this claim ought to be
confirmed to the said Marie Nicolle Les Bois, or her legal representatives, according to the concession.
"The. board adjourned until to-morrow at nine o'clock, A. ?4.
L. F. LINN.
F.. R. CONWAY.
A. G. HARRISON."
4. The act of Congress, passed on the 4th of July, 1836.
The purport of this act is set forth, under the eighth head of
the" plaintiff's title, in the cave of Mackay v. Dillon.
5. A certificate of the surveyor of the public lands, dated
September, 6, 1838.
This certificate is as follows:-

Plat and Certifieate of Survey, by .Authorityof the United States.
" Survey No. 3,184.
cPlat and description of the survey of a tract of two hundred and
four arpents and fifty perches, equal to two hundred and eight
acres of land, situated in township forty-five, north of the base
line, range seven, east of the fifth principal meridian, in the State
of Missouri, executed on the twenty-fifth day of September,
eighteen hundred and thirty-eight, by Charles De Ward, deputy
surveyor, under instructions from the surveyor of the public
lands in the States of Illinois and Missouri, dated the sixth day
of September, eighteen hundred and thirty-eight.
" This being the tract of land granted, on the eleventh day of
.May, eighteen hundred and three, to Marie Nicolle Les Bois, by
Charles Dehault Delassus, then lieutenant-governor, for the government of Spain, of the province of Upper Louisiana, surveyed on
tie twenty-seventh day of May, eighteen hundred and three, by
Antoine Soulard, Spanish" silveyor of the same province, and
confirmed to the said Marie Nicolle Les Bois, or her legal representatives, by the act of Congress of the United States, approved
the fourth of July, eighteen hundred and thirty-six, entitled ' An
act confirming claims to land in the State of Missouri, and for
other purposes,' according to the decision, numbered thirty-nine,
of the report of the board of commissioners appointed by the' act
of Congress, approved the ninth of July,. eighteen hundred and
thirty-two, entitled ' An act for the final adjustment of private

454

SUPREME COURT.
Les Bois v. -Bramell.

land claims in Missouri.'; and the act of Congress, approved the
second of March, eighteen hundred and thirty-three, supplemental
thereto."
Then follows a minute description of the land by metes and
bounds.
Defendant's Title.
The evidence offered by the defendant consisted of the first six
beads of the title offered by the defendant, in the case of Mackay
v. Dillon.
He further offered a plat and survey of the common, made in
November, 1832, under instructions from "the surveyor of public
lands in the States of Illinois and Missouri, and the following certificate :"1Sutvymr's OFFicE, St. Louis, 7th of .qpril, 1841.
"The foregoing plat and description of the survey of the commons of St.'Louis are correctly copied from pp. 74, 75, and 76
of record-book C, in this office. The plat of the survey, No.
3,184, subsequently made of the claim of Marie Nicolle Les Bois,
within the survey of said commons, is this day laid down on the
said foregoing plat of the common, according to the survey of the
said claim of Marie Nicolle Les Bois.
WILLIAM MILBURN,
Surveyor of the Public Lands in the States of
Illinois and .Tissouri."
The evidence being closed on both sides, the counsel filed the
following agreement.
.8grfement by Parties.
It was agreed by the parties, that, at the time of the commencement of this suit, the defendant was in the actual possession and
occupation of twenty acres of land, parcel of the tract of land in
the declaration mentioned, as tenant of the city of St. Louis,
claiming the same as common belonging to the inhabitants of St.
Louis, and further, that the matter of dispute in this action exceeds
the value of two thousand dollars, exclusive of costs.
. It was also admitted by the parties, that, from a short time after
the settlement of the village of St. Louis, there was a fence, commencing above the town of St. Louis, running westwardly, a little
westof the village, until it came to the hill near the court-house,
and then ran in a direction south of west, until it reached the line
of the Barriere des Noyer fields, and then running southwardly
along the front of those fields, until it reached the Carondelet fields,
and from that point extended to the river. The land on the eastern side of that fence vas used by the inhabitants of the town for
the pasturage of cattle, and for the supply of wood, and was -al-

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

455

Les Bois v. Bramell.

ways called the common of the town, while the land.on the westafn
side was used for cultivation. The land in question lies on the
eastern side of this fence, and within what was called the'common.
The fence above mentioned was destroyed ia the year 1797, at
which time the cultivation of the common fields west of said fence
was discontinued.
The counsel for the plaintiff then moved the court to instruct
the jury, that the survey offered by the inhabitants of St. Louis,
in support of their claim, upon which survey was laid down; at the
request of the claimants, the concession and survey of Marie
Nicolle Les Bois, excludes and protects from the confirmatory
operation of the acts of 'Congress of 13th June, 18.12, and act
of Congress'of 27th June, 1831, the title of said Marie Nicolle
Les Bois to the tract granted to her.
Which instruction the court refused to give ; to which decisioji
the plaintiff, by her counsel, excepted.
Inetructionsgiven.
The court then instructed the jury as follows 1. That the inhabitants of the town of St. Louis were confirmed in their claim to commons by the acts of Congress of 1812
and 1831.
2. That the notice of claim of said inhabitants, as filed with the
recorder of land titles, and exhibited before the board of commissioners, read here to the jury, is evidence of the extent of the said
claim to said commons.
3. If the claim of the plaintiff is included within the boundary
of the lands confirmed to the town of St. Louis by the acts of
812 and 1831, then the jury must find for the defendant ; because
those acts passed the title to the land in controversy to the inhabitants of said town.
To which opinion of the court, in giving the said instructions,
the plaintiff, by her counsel, excepted. And the laintiff prays
the court to sign and seal this bill of exceptions, which is done accordingly, this 14th day of April, 1841.
J. CATRON.
[sEAL.]
R. W. WELLS. [SEAL.]
Under these instructions, the jury found for the defendant, and
to review them the present writ of error was brought.
The cause was argued by Mir. Aliagenis, who made the following points :1. That the grant and order of survey by-the lieutenant-governor,.
in May, 1803, and the survey made in conformity thereto, raise a
legal presumption, that at that date the land so granted and surveyed
was royal domain.

456

SUPREME COURT.
Les Bois r. Bramell.

2. That the evidence given on the part of the defendant.was not
sufficient to rebut that presumption.
3. That by virtue of said grant and survey the plaintiff was, in
contemplation of law, in possession of the land in dispute on May,
1803, and- could not -be divested thereof unider the act of 1812,
except by actual exclusive adverse possession of the same as comnions by the inhabitants of St. Louis up to the 20th of December,
1803.
4. That the grant and survey to the plaintiff gave her such a
right to the premises as came within the term "1property," under
the treaty of Louisiana, and that notice of her claim having been
duly filed by the recorder, she could not be divested thereof by the
act of. 1812 or 1831.
5. That by the 'act of 1812, legal proof before the recorder
of continued inhabitation, cultivation, or possession prior to and up
to the 20th of December, 1803, was made a condition precedent
to the confirmation of claims to lots or land under that act, and
that unless the recorder, upon the proof made, confirmed the claims
submitted to him for investigation, or reported 'them to Congress
for confirmation, the same are not confirmed by the act of 1812
or that of 1831.
6. That the plat and survey of Mackay, if received as evidence
of the extent and boundaries of the land claimed as commons, are
evidence also to show that the tract granted to the plaintiff was not
claimed as commons, or confirmed to the. inhabitants of St. Louis
as such, -bythe act of 1812 or 1831.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes up by a writ of error to the Circuit Court of
the District of Missouri. It is an action of ejectment for two hundred and eight acres of land, lying within the comnions of St.
Louis, and confirmed to the plaintiff by the act of Coigress of
July 4,.1836 ; and was surveyed by the authority of the United
States, in. September, 1838. •The'act of 1836, and the survey,
make out a good prima facie title for the plaintiff.
The defendant claims title under the city of St. Louis ; and the
titie of the city depends on its grant of the commons by the acts
of 1812 and 1831. The evidence of identity and boundary of
neither claim being disputed, the plaintiff moved the court to instruct the jury, that the survey offered by the inhabitants of St.
Louis in support of their claim, upon which survey was laid down,
at the request of the claimants; the concession and survey of
Marie Nicolle Les Bois, excludes and protects from the confirmatory operation of the acts of Congress of 13th June, 1812, and
act of Congress of 27th June, 1831, the title of said Marie Nicolle
Les Bois to the tract gianted to her ; which instruction was refused. The survey referred to was one made of the commons in

JANUARY TERM, X846.

457

Les Bois v. Bramell.

1806, by James Mackay; and'on a plat of 'the survey, filed with
a notice of claim before the board of commissioners organized by
virtue of the act of 1805,.to examine and report on French and
Spanish claims, this of Les Bnis was laid down, with six others.
Mackay's survey was a private one, made at the insthnce of the
inhabitants of St. Louis, and was not binding on the rights of any
one; nor did it profess to exclude the pretensions laid down on
the plat, as not being part of the town common, but the reverse.
For our further views on the question presented by:'the instruction, we refer to what is said on it in the case of Mackay's heirs v.
Dillon,-submitted to us at the same time with thepresent.
The court then instructed the jury as follows :1. That the inhabitants of the town of St. Louis were conflrmed in their claim to commons by the acth of Congress of 1812 and
1831.
2. That the notice of claim of said inhabitants, as filed with the
recorder of land titles, and exhibited before'thd board of commissioners, read here to the jury, is evidence of the extent of the
said claim to said commons.
3. If the claim of the plaintiff is included within the boundary of
the lands confirmed to the town of St.'Louis by the acts of 1812
and 1831, then the jury must find for the defendant; because
those acts passed the title to the land in controversy to the inhabitants of said town.
These were excepted to.
As to the first instruction given, it maybe remarked, that by the
act of June 13, 1812, Congress provided, that the rights, titles,
and claims to town or village lots, out lots, common field lots,
"and commons," in, adjoining, and belonging to St. Louis (and
other towns) should be, and the same were, thereby confirmed to
the inhabitants, &c.
That this was a general confirmation of the commoin to the town
as a community no one hag ever doubted, so far as the confirmation operated on the lafids of 'the United States ; and to which no
individual claim or pretension was set up ; and the question arising
on the instruction is, whether the plaintiff's claim was excepted
directly, or by reason of a prior right vested in the plaintiff. The
only direct exception in the act is the proviso, -"
That nothing
herein contained shall be construed to affect the rights of any persons. claiming the same lands, or anx part thereof, whose claims
have been confirmed by the 'board of commissioners' for adjusting and settling claims to land in the said territory."
The board referred to was organized according to the act of
March 2, 1805, with powers to examine such claims as that of the
plaintiff, and to decide on their validity ; and although, by the act,
no power was given to make a conclusive adjudication withot the
sanction of Congress, yet if any claim was declared good and
VOL. IV.
58
MM

458

SUPREME COURT.
Les Bois v. Bramell.

-

valid, and recommended for confirmation, it was of the class mentioned in the foregoing proviso, as we suppose, even when acted
on under the act of 1805 ; but by the act of March 3, 1807,
§ 41, the powers of the commissioners were extended, and confirmations of various classes of-claims were authorized to be made
by the board conclusively, without the intervention of Congress
and for which patents were to issue, on surveys made by officers
of the United States.
The foregoing were the only description of titles excepted from
the act of 1812 ; and as the plaintiff's was not one of them, the
act did not apply to it in the saving clause.
The next inquiry on the first instruction given is, as to the operation of the act of 1831 on the plaintiff's claim.
The act of May 26, 1824, gave jurisdiction to the District
Court of the United States for the Missouri District, to hear and
adjudge, in a mode of proceeding according to the rules governing
courts of equity,, on all claims- of the description, and that were in
the situation, of the plaintiff s, - the United States being defendants ; and either party having the right of appeal to the Supreme
Court.
The fifth section of the act declares,-" That any claim not
brought before the District Court within two years from the passing thereof shall be for ever barred, both in law and equity; and
that no other action at common law, or proceeding in equity, shall
ever thereafter be sustained in any court whatever, in relation to
said dlaim.'l
An act for the relief of Phineas Und rwood, and for other purposes, passed the 22d May, 1836, § 2 (1 United States Land
Laws, 924), declares, that the time for filing petitions under the
act of 1824 shall be and is hereby extended to the 26th day of
May, 1828.
The act of May 24th, 1828 (4 Lit. & Brown's ed., ch. 90,
298), declares, that the District Courts shall be open for the receiving petitions of claimants, under the act of 1834, until the
26th day of May, 1829, and that the act shall continue in force
for the purpose of enabling claimants to obtain a final decision on
their claims uhtil the 26th day of May, 1830, and no longer.
The plaintiff instituted no proceedings before the District Court
under the act of 1824 ; and on the 26th day of May, 1829, her
claim stood and was barred. For further views of this court on the
character of the bar, we refer to the cases of Barry v. Gamble, 3
Howard, 55, and Chouteau v. Eckhart, 2 Howard, 352.
In January, 1831, the city of St. Louis, and other towns, applied to have their rights of common further confirmed and regulated ; and an act of Congress was passed, declaring - " That the
United States do hereby relinquish to the inhabitants of the several
towns of St.- Louis, &c., all the right, title, and interest in and to

JANUARY TERM,,1846.

459

Les Bois v. Bramell.

the town or village lots, out lots, common field lots, and commons,
- to be held by the inhabitants of the said towns in ' full property,'
and to be regulated, or disposed of, for the use of the inhabitants,
according to the laws of the State of Missouri."
This law vested
in the city corporation the town common, in fee simple, and gave
full power to the legislature oP-Missouri to incorporate it into the
city, by extending the city charter over it. The importance of
the act will be understood, when we examine the plats and other
evidences in the record ; fiom which it will be seen, that the city is
spreading over the eastern lines of the common, and that it is in
part sold out in lots by the corporation already, and fastbecoming
part of the city.
Les Bois standing barred when the act of 1831 was passed, in
November, 1832, the city caused the common to be officially surveyed, under instructions from the surveyor-general of Illinois and
Missouri, according to the act of 26th May, 1834, § 2 (1 United
States Land Laws, ch. 311). This survey was a public one,
binding on the United States and the city corporation ; and was
duly recorded by the surveyor-general in his office. A copy of
the plat is in the record, with a detailed description of landmarki;
courses, and distances ; and these-were given in evidence to the jury
in the Circuit Court. Thus stood the defendant's title. On July
9th, 1832, a law was passed by Congress, authorizing'commissioners
to be appointed to act on claims not confirmed previougly ; and on
the 6th of November, 1833, the board organized under the act
declared Les Bois's claim valid; and Congress confirmed it, July
4th, 1836.
To avoid the bar, under these circumstances, and to show
that neither tha act of 1812, or that of 1831, could deprive
the plaintiff of her right, it is insisted, she had a vested interest to
the land confirmed, when the United States acquired Louisiana,
which is protected by treaty stipulation, and that such right no act
of Congress could defeat ; that by the third article of the treaty of
1803, with France, the inhabitants of the ceded territory were to
be incorporated into the Union, to be admitted to the rights, advantages, and immunities of citizens of the United States, and in
the-mean time they were to be maintained and protected in the free
enjoyment of their liberty, property, and religion.- And this implied, that after their admission they should be equally protected,
and that such would havo been the measure of justice applicable to
their rights of property by the laws of nations, had the treaty
been silent on the subject. On'this assumption the plaintiff minly
relies ; that it is true in the abstract is not doubted, but it involves
several opposing considerations applicable to her title :- 1. Whether
Luch a vested property In the soil existed "inLes Bois, before the
date of the treaty, as bound the government of Spain to perfect, by
the execution of a complete title,,the first incipient step. 2. Wheth-

460

SUPREME COURT.
Les Bois r. Brawell.

er the judicial power has any jurisfction to interfere and enforce
such right, supposing it to exist.
That this government had imposed on it the same duty to perfect
the title that rested on Spain before the country was ceded is not
open to question ; but this was all the United States were bound to
perform. How, then, did the plaintiff's claim stand previous to the
cession. Her first decree and order of survey bear date in May,
1802, and the survey was made in August, 1803 ; but there is no evidence that any part of the land was either occupied or cultivated.
The lieutenant-governor's decree is in the usual style, and concludes, ' that it is given to serve the interested party to obtain the
concession and title in form, from the intendant-general, to whom
alone corresponds, by royal order, the distributing and granting of
all classes of the royal domain."
On the 22d of October, 1798, the king of Spain appointed Morales intendant-general and sub-delegate ; he kept his office at New
Orleans, and was charged with the superintendence and granting of
the public domain in the provinces of Upper and Lower Louisiana,
"to the conclusion of all other authority." On July 17th, 1799,
Morales published his regulations to the inferior officers and the
people of the -provinces, so that (in his own language) "1all persons who wish to obtain lands may know in what manner they ought
to ask for them, and on what conditions lands -can be granted and
sold ; that those who are in possession without the necessary titles
may know the steps they ought to take to come to an adjustment ;
that the commandants and sub-delegates of the intendancy may be
informed of what they ought to observe," &c. 2 White's Recopilacion, 234.
By article eighteen, it is declared, - Experience proves, that
a great number of those who have asked for land think themselves
the legal owners of it ; those who have obtained the first decrees
by which the surveyor is ordered to measure and put them in possession, others after a survey has been made, have neglected to
ask the title for the property, and as like abuses continuing for a
longer time will augment the confusion and disorder which will
necessarily result, - We declare that no one of those who have
obtained said decrees, notwithstanding in virtue of them ihe survey
has taken place, and that they have been put in possession, can be
regarded as owners of land until their real titles are delivered completed, with all the formalities before recited."
The formalities recited ard found in the three preceding sections,
which give precise instructions how the title is to be made out, and
where it is to be recorded, by the officers of the general intendancy. The nineteenth article declares, -" All those who 'possess '
lands in virtue of formal titles made by the governors -[such as Delassus was] shall be protected and maintained in their possessions."
And by article twenty, -" 1 Those who, without the title or pos-

JANUARY

TERMA,

1846.

461

Les Bois v. Bramell.

session mentioned in the nineteenth article, are found occupying
lands, shall be driven therefrom, as from property belonging to the
crown," unless they have occupied the same more than ten years.
The board of commissioners who confirmed Les Bois's claim
acted on the principle, that the regulations of Morales were not in
force in Upper Louisiana, more than those of the royal governors,
O'Reilly and Gayoso. But as the Lieutenant-Governor, Delassus,
referred the claimant in this case, and in all others so far as we
know, to the general intendant for a title, and 'the instructions
point out the terms on which a complete title can be had1 and the
formalities with which it must be clothed, it is difficult to say on
what grounds the commissioners come to the conclusion that Morales's regulations were not in force. The rules of proceeding of
the board will be found in 5 D. Green's State Papers, 707, and
the instructions to which they refer in 2 White's Recopilacion,
228-244.
In an affidavit found in the public documents, and furnished by
the same board (5 D. Green's State Papers, 708), Delassus states
his practice to have been, that, when a petition was presented for
land, if he considered the petitioner possessed merits to entitle him
to the concession it was granted, subject to the confirmation of the
intendant-general, and that he made an order 6f survey ; these he
delivered to the petitioner ; but that he kept no books, nor did he
make any registry of the decree or order of survey; and that
whether the surveyor did so or not was no concern of his, the lieutenant-governor's, nor did he deem it material when the survey
was made ; as to this, there was no time limited.
From this loose mode of proceeding, it is manifest the whole
matter of perfecting the title was referred to the intendant-general ;
and he, and those acting subordinate to him in this respect, were
undoubtedly governed by the intendant's regulations. As the
king's representative and deputy, he was to judge whether the
considerations moving the lieutenant-governor were such as warranted the grant ; next, whether conditions had been performed,
&c. The granting power was in a great degree political, and altogether the exercise of royal authority, and of course subject to no
supervision but by the same high authority itself. By the treaty,
the United States assumed the same exclusive right to deal with
the title in their piolitical and sovereign capacity, nor could the
courts of justice be permitted to interfere ; if they could, and by
their decrees complete the title, all power over the subject might
have been defeated, not by the courts of the Union only, but by
the State courts also. And therefore the contemporary construction and practical understanding of the treaty for forty years
has been, that claims like the plaintiff's had no standing in a court
of justice until confirmed by Congress, or by its authority,
Next, it is insisted that the confirmation of 1836 established the
MM *

462 1

SUPREME

COURT.

Les Bois v. Bramell.

original validity of Les Bois's title ; ,that this stands as an adjudged and concluded fact, which a court of justice cannot controvert ; and the confirmation having operated on the concession of
1802, therefore, by relation, it overreaches the confirmations of
the town common of 1812 and 1831.
The doctrine of relation, in an action of ejectment, by which the
legal title by patent is made to take date from the entry or inception of title, is. familiar in some of the States, and has been acted
on in this. court. It applies where both the litigant parties have a
grant ; the case of Ross v. Barland, 1 Peters, 655, was of this
description. There the younger patent was founded on the best
right in equity, standing in advance of either patent, and the equities were tried at law. But if the elder or better entry had not
been carried into a grant, a court of equity might have administered
the same measure of justice, and decreed tie land from the patentee, whose legal title was founded on the inferior equity. This
is the constant practice in the State couris in similar cases. But
when courts of law go behind .ronflicting patents, and contest the
equities on which they are founded, it has never been held thtawhe
patent aided the equitable title ; it must come in support of the
grant, and stand on its own merits. So in this case ; the plaintia'
admits her grant, of itself, is insufficient to authorize a recovery, and that she must go behind it ; - and there she is met by
the objection, that her claim had no standing in a court of
equity or of law, up to the date of its confirmation, and depended
on the political power. The plaintiff's assumption comes only to
this, that the United States erred in granting the common first,
in prejudice of her better right to have the first grant. To this
assumption, the answer is, that if the sovereign power wronged her,
he is without remedy in a municipal court.
The second instruction given by the Circuit Court was, that the
notice of claim filed with the recorder and exhibited to the board
was evidence of the extent of said claim to commons. The cbmpetency of the evidence was not objected to on part of the plaintiff; it
was such as she herself resorted to, for the establishment of the extent and boundary of her own claim, and, aside from the legal and
official survey of the commons made in 1832, is the only evidence
of boundary that is likely to exist at no distant future day, and was
the usual evidence introduced'to prove the fact before the survey
of 1832 was made. The court gave no opinion on its effect, but
properly left it to the jury.
The third instruction is, that if the jury believed the land in
dispute to lie within the bounds of the common confirmed by the
acts of 1812 and 1831, then they should find for the defendant.
The first consideration on this instruction arises. on the act of
July 4th, 1836, by which the plaintiff's claim was confirmed.
The fact, that claims embraced by the act interfered with lands

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

463

Lea Bois v. Bramell.

previously granted or sold by the United States, was well known
to the commissioners, and in their report of 27th November, 1833
(5 D. Green's State Papers, 702), they state for $he information
of Congress, that "1there are numerous cases of lanlds lying within
these French and Spanish claims belonging to individuals whose
right or claim originated under the government of the United States ;
some depend on purchases; some on the law* allowing preemptions; some others on New Madrid' locations; and some again
upon settlement rights which have been confirmed ; - that most of
these persons have been for a long time settled on their lands ;
their claims being of a bona fide character, derived from the govern.
mert of the United States, they'went on to improve their lands,
making for themselves and families comfortable homes, without any
belief that they would ever be interrupted in their possessions ; that
should the claims reported by the board be confirmed by Congress,
in whole or in part, Congress will, in their wisdom, no doubt
notice the suggestions here made, and carve out such a course as
will quiet the uneasiness and anxiety which are felt, by doing every
thing which even the most scrupulous demands of justice could
requre."1
view of this report, Congress passed the aforesaia confirmatory
act, which declares, - " That if it shall be found that any tract or
tracts confirmed as aforesaid, or any part thereof, had been previously located by any other person or persons, under any law of
the United States, or had been surveyed and. sold by the United
States, this act shall confer no title to such lands 'n opposition to
the r;ehts acquired by such location or purchase ; but the individual
or individuals whose claims are hereby confirmed shall be permitted to locate so much thereof as interferes with such location or
purchase on other lands of the United States," &c.
The officers of the government administering the land department
had to construe this law with its exceptions ; the matter was referred to.the Attorney-General, and in September, 1842, he gave it as
his opinion, that the confirmations must yield to prior confirmations ;
schdol sections, ordinary sales prior to the act of July 4th, 1836, &c.
A confirmation of a Spanish or French claim, either by a board
of commissioners under the act of 1807, or by Congress directly,
or by the District Courts by force of the act of 1824, is a location
of land by a law of the United States ; surveys -have been made
and patents issued for such land in the great majority of instances,
and it cannot be questioned, as we think, that a title thus protected
by patent was intended to be carved out of the act of 1836 ; nor is
it perceived how the St. Louis common can be in a worse condition, as the acts of 1812 and 1831 did not contemplate any further grant .than the acts themselves. import, and this conclusion is
greatly strQngthened by the following considerat.os.
The plaintiff 's claim, and all others of a sir. lar character within

464

SUPRE-ME
Le

COURT.

Bois v. Bramell.

the St. Louis common, that is, such as" the board of commissioners
from 1806 to 1812 had examined and rejected, were well known
to Congress when the act of that year, confirming the common, was
passed ; the report of the board had just then been returned to
Congress, and Mr. Penrose, one of its members, and Mr. Reddick,
the clerk, were at Washington, as appears by their letters. The
two of Mr. Penrose were communicated to the Iiouse of Representatives, and that of Mr. Reddick to the chairman of the committee of public lands (2 American State Papers, 447-451) ; they
gave the information on which Congress proceeded in acting on the
report, as the letters plainly show. The same information was part
of the public and printed documents of Congress when the second
confirming act of 1831 was passed ; and when it was known,
Spanish and French pretensions to claim conflicting with the common stood barred. In 1832, the common was officially and legally
surveyed, pursuant to the act of. May 26th, 1824, -and the survey
stood recorded in due form in 1836, when the plaintiff got her tide.
These laws, and the acts done by the United States in pursuance
of them, we suppose, made and located the common's title As
effectually as a patent co ild have done, and brought it within the
exception 'of the act of 1836 ; and that the plaintiff Les Bois's
confirmation was intended to give her land elsewhere, without disturbing the opposing title.
For another reason, we think the instruction was proper. When
the country was acquired, the title to the land in dispute passed
from France to the United States ; on this government was imposed the duty by the treaty to satisfy individual and unperfected
claims. This was to be 'done in a due exercise of the political
power, to whose justice alone the claimant could appeal, and to
whose decision she was compelled to submit ; and there being two
adverse claims to the same land, equally inchoate, and the governmerit, being unable to confirm both, was under the necessity of
determining between them ; and-, having granted the land to one,
necessarily rejected the pretension of the other to the same land ;
and therefore'the first grantee took the legal and exclusive title.
But where there, is a second confirmation, as in the instance before
us, then the justice of the government must be relied on by the
second grantee for compensation ; and this compensation the act
of 1836 has provided. The last ground is the one on which the
decision in the case of Chouteau v. Eckhart proceeded, in regard
to the St. Charles common ; and which doctrine, we think, applies
equally to the present controversy.
For the several reasons above stated, it is ordered, that the judgment of the Circuit Court be affirmed.

