JANUARY TERM, 1846.
Spalding v. State of New York.

hands of a disbursing officer, it is as much the money of the United
States, as if it had not been drawn from- the treasury.. Until p4!
over by the agent of the government to the pierson entitled to it,
the fund cannot, in any legal sense, be considered a part of -1
effects. The -purser is not the.-debtor of the seamen.
It is not doubted that cases may have arisen in which the government, -as a &aatter of policy or accommodation,' may have aided
a creditor of one who received money for public services; but this
cannot ,have been-under any *upposed legal liability, as no such liability attaches to the government, or to its disbursing officers.
We think the question in this case is clear of doubt, and requires
no further illustration.
The judgments are reversed at the costs of the defendants, and
the causes are remanded to the state court, with instructions; to dismiss the attachments at the costs of the appellees in that court.

LTxAN A. SPALnnmo, PAfiFrF ix EEROR, v. Tai

PEOPLE OF TER
STATz OF Naw Yonx, Ex 31L. FaRnnnic -F. BAcius, DzFmoAwa s.

Tuis case was brought up from the Supreme Court for the Trial
of Impeachments and the Correction of Exrors of ihe StatW of New
York, by a writ of exiror issued uniler the '9thswition of ,;th Judi-

ciary Act.
The facts were these.
The relator, Frederick F. fackus, previox. to the 20th day of
July, 1840, had obtained a judgment in th6 SuprmeCiirt of:thJe
State of New York against Lyman A., Spalding,
, pWja iff in
error, -for the fionperformance of promises, and on the said last
mentioned day the relator, as complainant, filed, a.. creditor's bill
against the -said Spalding, in the Court of Chancery of said-State,
before the Vice-Chancellor of the' Eighth Circuit, 6n which an injunction was issued and served on said Spalding, fQ restrain him,
among other things, from collecting, receiv ig, transferring, selling,
assiging, delivering, or in any way or manner using, controlling,
interfering or meddlin with, or disposing of, any property, money,
or things in action belonging to him.
On the 13th day of December, 1941, an order was made by
said court to attach said Spalding for a violation of said, injunction,
and such proceedings -were had in said court, that on the 21st day
of March, 1842, the said court declared and-adjudged that the said
Lyman A. Spaldihg had been and was guilty of a contempt of court
in wilfully violating said injunction, by disposing of property and
paying out money contrary to the terms of said injunction; and that

such misconduct of the said Lyman A. Spalding was calculated to

.22

SUPREME COURT.
Spalding v. State of New York.

and did impair, impede, and prejudice the rights and remedies of
the complainant in the said cause, and it was ordered that he pay a
fine for said contempt to the amount of $3,000, and the costs and
expenses in relation to said contempt of $ 196-51; and that he be
committed to the common jail of the county of Niagara, until the
fine, costs, and expenses are paid, and that a mittimus issue accordingly to the sheriff. And it was also ordered, that the costs
and expenses be paid to the solicitor of the relator, and the $ 3,000
be paid to the clerk of said court, subject to the further order of
the court.
On the 6th day of May, 1842, an alias mittimus was issued; on
the 7th day of May, the said Spalding was arrested, and continued
under said arrest until the 29th day of September, 1842.
On the 11th day of April, 1842, the said Lyman A. Spalding
presented his petition to be declared a bankrupt, pursuant to the
act of Congre-s entitled "An Act to establish a uniform System of
Bankruptcy throughout the United States," passed August 19th,
184i, ch. 9, and on the 17th day of September, 1842, was duly
and fully discharged, under said act, from all the debts owing by
him at the time of presentation of his said petition to be declared
a bankrupt, and received his certificate thereof, pursuant to said
act.
Afterwards, on his application, he was brought before a Supreme Court commissioner of said .State, on habeas corpus, and
claimed to be discharged from the mittimus, on the ground of being
discharged .by his certificate from the fine, costs, and expenses.
The relator, having been duly notified, appeared by counsel and
o.pposed said discharge,.but the commissioner, on the presentation
of,the said certificate, discharged said Spalding from the mittimus
on the 29th day of September aforesaid.
On the 18th.day of November after, the relator made application
to the said Vice-Chancellor for another mittimus to enforce the
collection of said fine, costs, and expenses, and an order was entered that the said Spalding show cause before the Vice-Chancellor why the same should not issue.
On the 28th of said month, the relator and Spalding appeared
before said Vice-Chancellor ; and the said Lyman A. Spalding
presented his certificate in bankruptcy aforesaid, and claimed that
by the said bankrupt act he was by said certificate dischrged from
all his debts, and from the said fine, costs, and expenses.
On the 18th day of January, 1843, the said Vice-Chancellor ordered, adjudged, and decreed that a new inittimus issue, to
commit the said Spalding to the common jail of the county of
Niagara, until he pay the said fine, costs, and expenses, $ 196-51,
to be paid to the solicitor of the relator, and the $ 3,000 be paid to
the clerk of the court, subject to the further order of the court,
and declared and decided that the discharge of the said Lyman A.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.
Spalding

23

.. State of New York'

Spalding, -under the bankrupt law, did not entitle him to, be released from the payment of the said fine, costs, and expenses, nor
from imprisonment for its collection.
From which decision and decree the said Spalding appealed to
the Chancellor of the said State, and the said Chancellor, on the 24
day of June, 1843, affirmed the decision and order or decree appealed from, and decided that the said defendant, Lyman A. Spalding, was not and could not be discharged from the said -fine, costs,
and expenses under the bankrupt act. 10.Paige, 284.
And on appeal by the said Lyman A. Spalding to the Court
for the Correction of Errors. of . the State. of New -York, the said
coutt affirmed the said order or decree of the said Chancellor, 'with
costs and interest on the amount. decreed to ,be paid, and decreed
that the said Spalding was nt by'the bankrupt act discbarged.from
the payment of the said fine, costs, and.expe-nes:
The following is the opinion of the Court for the Correction of
Errors, as pronounced by Chief-Justice Nelson.
The appellant was adjudged guilty of a contempt of. court for a
wilful violation oF an injunction ly the Vice-Chancellor of the Eighth
Circuit, on the 21st of Marchz,. 1842, and .amerced, in. the sum of$3,000, and costs and expenses of the proceeding, which were
taxed at $ 196-51, with directions that lht beecommitted to the jail
of Niagara*county until the same were paid.
On or about the 7th of May, he was. arrested fornonpayment of
said fine; but succeeded in preventing. an,.actual commitment into
the custody of the jailer, by the use of -he writ of habeas corpus,
until he obtained%his discharge under-the bankrupt law, 17th September following, when he was soon after set at liberty on the productiot of said discharge, by Joseph Center, a eomnissioner to do
the duties of a judge of the Supreme Court at chambers.
On the 18th of November, the relator, upon full statement of the
.foregoing facts, applied to the Vice-Chancellor for a recommitment,
on the ground that the discharge of .the- commissioner was without
authority, and void; which, after hearing counter affidavits, and
counsel for both parties, he adjudged accordingly, and entered an
order for said recommitment to close custody till the fine was paid.
On appeal to the Chancellor, this order was affirmed, and the
question is now here bn appeal to this court.
Chief-Justiee NELSON. Upon the view I have taken of the
case, the only question at all material to examine is, whether the
fine inflicted upon the appellant for a wilful violation of the injunction is a debt within, the meaning of the bankrupt law, so that his
discharge, granted under it, will operate to exonerate him from
imprisonment. If not, then, beyond all question, the act of the
commissioner in discharging the appellant from the mittimus was

24

SUPREME COURT.
Spalding r. State of New

York.

without authority, and the order of the Vice-Chanceor direoting a
recommitment proper.
By the 4th section of the bankrupt, law (Laws Cong, 1841,' p.
11), the certificate shall "be deemed a full and complete discharge
bf all debts, contracts, and other engagements of such bankrupt
tekich are provable under this act," &c.
The adjudication upon which the fine was imposed, is as follows:-" The said Lyman A. Spalding has been and is guilty of
a contempt of this court in wilfully violating the said injunction,
.and by disposing of property and receiving and paying out money
contrary to the terms of the said injunction ; and that said misconduct of the said Lyman A. Spalding was calculated to, and actually did, impede and prejudice the rights and remedies of the complainant in the said cause."
This act, for which the appellant has thus been adjudged guilty,
is a criminal offence under the Revised Statutes (vol. 2, p. 577,
§'14), and was before, at common law (4 Bi. Com. 129), for
which he was liable to an indictment, and, on conyiction, to fine
and imprisonment.
- He might have been punished in this way, and subjected to a
fine not exceeding $250, and imprisonment for one year. (2 Rev.
.Stat. 582, § 46, and p. 577, § 14.)
But' this remedy by indictrnent for suppressing the mischief is
oftentimes found too tardy for the exigency of the case ; and hence
the law h6s Also authofiged'the more summary proceeding by attachment, afor a criminal 'contempt, whereby 'the offender is
arraigW.d At once uial tbh charges, and thv comrse of justice more
promptly vindicated ndsustained,' As-has been'well remarked in
reference. to this subject, laws, without a competent authority to
secure- their administration from disbbedience and 'dontempt, would
be vain and nugatory. A power, therefore, in -thecourts of justice
to, suppiess such contempts -by an immediate attachment of the
offender results from the firsmt principles of' judicial establishments,
and must'be an inseparable attendantupon eyery superior tribunal.
This summary mode of punishment is the one that has been resorted
to in'the instance before us ; and upon' a convietion;,the propriety
ai. justice of which is not in question, a fine of' $3,000 and costs
of proceedings has been imposed ;_ a penalty, as we have seen, for
a strictly criminal offence,'and inflicted under a strictly crimina.
proceeding.
'It appears to me,' therefore, the very statement of the case is
enough to show, that there is no color for the ground taken, that
the fine is a deht' within the bankrupt law, any more than would
exist in ihe case'if it had been imposed after conviction, on an indictment for any other of the numerous minor offences within the
calendfr of crimes.
IIt is contended, however, that these proceedings, being under the

JANUARY

TERM,1846.

Spalding v. State of NewYork.

provi ons in the Revised Statutes (vol. 2, p. 440, tit. 13) designO
for the purpose of enforcing civil remedies, should, though in form
criminal, be regarded simply as another remedy for collecting the
debt claimed in the suit in the Court of Chancery, and upon which
they have been founded; that the fine is, in point of fact, imposed
for the purpose of being applied to the extinguishment of that debt,
whenever, in the progress of tbe suit, it shall have been established;
that it'is but incidental to the debt, and dependent upon it, and a
discnarge of the one must necessarily discharge the other.
The answer to all this is, that several cases of strictly criminal
contempts have been incorporated into the provisions, of the statute under this head, "Of proceedings as for coptempts, to enf6rce
civil remedies," &c., of which the case before us is one, for the
purpose of authorizing the court *toimpose.the fine, with a view to
the actual'loss or injulry -sustained by the party aggrieved,' inconsequence of the criminal act, and of applying the money in satisfaction of the same, instead of imposing itor the benefit of the pe.piq.
This is most manifest from a perusal of. -the several provisions.
We find there the case of persons assuming th be officers, attorneys, solicitors, and counsellors of the cpurt, and acting as such
without authority. Also for rescuing property from seizure, and
persons from arrest; fQr unlawiItty detaining a witness or party
from court; and for any other unlawful interference with the process or proceedings in the action; the refusal of a witness to attend or to be sworn; the improper conduct of jurors, in-convers-.
ing with a party to the suit, receiving co mmunications from him,
or from any other person, in relation to'the merits; fdr disobedience to any lawful order, decree, or process of the court, &c. (2
Rev. Stat. 441, § i, Sub. 3, 4, 5, 6.)
All these are, strictly, cases of criminal contemt
which have
nothing to do with the collection of debts, or enforcement of civil
remedies beyond the support and vindication of the general administration of the laws ; and the following provisions of the statute,
regulating the punishment, to be inflicted, shows the reasons for
bringing them, under this head. (§ 20, p. 443.) If the court
shall adjudge 'the defendant to have been guilty of the misconduct
charged, and that such misconduct was calculated to, or actually
did, defeat, impair, inppede, or prejudice the rights or remedies of
the party, it. sha proceed to impose a fine, or -to -imprison, or
both, as the -nature of the case shall require. • (§ 21.) If an
actual loss or injury &a have- been produced by.the misconduct
alleged, a fine shall be imposed sufficient to indemnify the party,
and to satisfy his costs and expenses, which shall be paid over'on
the order of the court ; and the payment.and acceptance of such
fine shall be a bar .to any action by the aggrieved party to rebover
damages for said injury. (§ 23.) When such misconduct consists in-the omission to perform some act or duty yet in the power
VOL. Iv.
4
c

go

SUPREME COURT.
Sp'alding v. State of New York.

of the defendant to perform, he shall be imprisoned only until he
shall have performed such act or duty, &c.
Here, in cases confessedly criminal and indictable, and the penalties for which,. ordinarily, would go for the benefit of the people,
the courts are authorized to impose them, with a view to the indemnity of the party aggrieved, making, at the same time, his acceptande of the fine a bar to any private action for the injury.
But the fine imposed is no less a penalty'for a criminal act, and
intended as a punishment for the same, than if inflicted for the
benefit of the people. The imposition, in the way prescribed by
the statute, accomplishes the double purpose of punishment for the
misconduct, on the one hand, and indemnity to the aggrieved
party, on the other.
I am satisfied,' therefore, that the discharge under the bankrupt
law has no sort of application to- the mtse, and that the order or
the
by the Vice-Clianclor was proper and legal.
. Itrecommitment
has been urged, that, whether the commissioner
erred, or not,
in discharging the appellant from the mittimus, under the writ of
habeas corpus, the Vice-Chancellor had no authority to recomm;
that the order discharging him should have been first reversed by
certiorari before the second commitment. (§ 61, p. 473.)
- This would be true, if the commissioner had had jurisdiction
over the subject mter, and had rendered 'only an erroneous judgpent in the premises; bui has no appiliation where his proceeding is wholly without authority, and void, as in this" case. (2 Rel*.
Stat. 470, § 42, Sub. 3, § 44. Cable v. Cooper, 15 Johns. R.*
152.)
(A Copy.) N.
HILL, Jr., Reporter.r,
To review this judgment of the Court of Errors, the present writ
of error was brought.
The case was argued by Mr. Curteniut, for the plaintiff in error,
and Mr. Delano, for the defendant in error.
Mr. Curtenius, for the plaintiff in error.
By the afirmation of the said order or decree, it is decided,
#W the said fine, co~ts, and expenses is not a debt; within the late
bankrupt law of the United States. And that the certificate of the
plaintiff in errox under the said law did not discharge him from the
Payment of the said fine, costs, and expenses.
We' insist on the contrary, and shall seek to maintain, that
the said fine, costs, and expenses imposed on the said plaintiff in
error is a debt. And that his certificate of dischargeunder the said
bankrupt law did and does discharge him from the payment thereof.
On the decision of these points rests the whole of this cause.
We.make, therefore, as our

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

27.

Spalding v. State of New York.

First Point, That the fine, costs, and expenses imposed on the
plaintiff in error, previous to his petition in bankruptcy, was a-debt,
from which ha was duly discharged by his certificate under.. the
bankrupt law Qf the United StateS,
By, the late bankrupt law (Laws of Congress, 1841, chap. 9),
"any person whatsoever residing in any State or Territory of the
United States owing debt3 may petition' except where the debts
were created by defalcation., as," &c. "or. while -acting in any
fiduciary capacity, and on compliance with, the act "shall be entitled to a full discharge from.all his debts." And that said discharge and certificate, when duly grcnted, shall in all courts of justice be deemed a full and complete dschargeof all debts, contracts,
and engagements of such bankrupt, which are provable under
this act."
In our case, there is no pretence that the plaintiff in error or his
debts come under any of the exceptions in the first section; or
that there is any exception in. the law which excludes him or it.
JBut the decision is against us on the ground that the law itself was
not intended to apply to a case like ours. *What, then, is our
case?
In answer, it becomes necessary to inquire by what power, under what statute, and for what purpose, the imposition of this fine,
¢osts, and expenses was made, and the plaintiff in error placed bey6nd the reach of relief from the bankrupt law, and subjected to.
perpetual imprisonment.
The power is claiined to be exercised by virtue of the revised
statutes of the State of New York, "Ias for a contempt."
There are two statutes, under, the one or the other of which -the
fine, costs, and exi'ensps were imposed. The one -(2 Rev. Stat.,
2d ed., 207) is entitled, "Provisiobs concerning courts of record,
their process and proceedings," by which power is given to punish as criminal contempts wilfudisobedience of any process or order
lawfully issued or made by a'court of record. The punishment to
*be hyjine or imprisonment, or both, but the fin is limited to 250,
and the imprisonment to thirty days. And section 14 expressly
states, that these sections shall not extend to any proceeding
against parties or officers, as for a contempt, for the purpose of
enforcing any civil right or'remedy. Under this statute, thefine,
&c., could not have been imposed.
The other statute (2- Rev. Stat., 2d ed., 410) is entitled, "Of
proceedings, as for contmpis, to ernfor;ce civil remedies, and to protect th rights of parties incii
%r actions," which provides, that,
§ l.
ivery
court of record shall have power to punish, by fine
and imprisonment, or- either, any neglect or violation of duty, or
any misconduct, by which the .rights or remedies of a partjin a
cuse or matter depending in such court, may be defeated, "iprired, impeded, or prejudiced,. i the followir
n cases.

2R

SUPREME COURT.
Spalding v. State of New York.

§ 20. If the court shall adjudge the defendant to have been
guilty of the misconduct alleged, and that such misconduct was
calculated to, or actually did, defeat, impair, impede, or prejudice
the rights or remedies of any party, in a cause or matter depending in such court, it shall proceed to impose a fine, or to imprison
him, or both, as the nature of the case shall require.
§ 21. If any actual loss or injury shall have been produced to
any party by the misconduct alleged, a fine'shall be imposed sufficient to -indemnify such party, and to satisfy his costs and expenses, which shall be paid over to him on the order of the court.
And in such case the payment and acceptance of such fine shall
be an absolute bar to any action by such aggrieved party to recover
damages for such injury or loss.
§ 22. In all other cases, the fine shall not exceed two hundred
and fifty dollars, over and above- the costs and expenses of the
proceedings.
§ 26. Persons proceeded against according to the provisions
of this title shall notwithstanding be liable to indictment for the
same misconduct, if it be' an indictable offence; but the court
before which a conviction shall be had on such indictment shall
take into consideration the punishment before inflicted, in forming
its sentence.
The adjudication was under section 20, as the mittimus is in the
words of this section. And the fine, &c., is under section 21, for
the purpose of indemnifying the relator for the removal of so much
of the property, or money, on which he had a lien by his injunction.

That is, it belongs to the party, on his establishing his right to
it by obtaining a decree of the court on his bill of complaint. The
damage was the money, or value of the property, on which the
relator had his lien by his bill and injunction; the offence, the disposing -of that amount by the plaintiff in error; the fine is the
amount of that damage, termed by the statute a fine. It is a certain, fixed, -nd definite amount; a debt, and belongs to the relator
if he obtains a decree on his bill; if not, it then belongs to the
plaintiff in error.
Here, then, we have the power, the 'statute, and the purpose
under and for which the fine, costs, and-expenses were imposed.
But it is urged against us that this is a fine for a contempt, an
alleged wilful contempt ; as though that implied a criminality
which placed the unfortuvate party adjudged guilty beyond relief,
and interposed an insurmountable barrier between him and the
benefit of the bankrupt law.
(Mr. Curtenius then proceeded to argue that the object of this
statute was only to enforce civil remedies, by the people's interposing between party and party, and permitt;ng a party to use the
same process which the.people do in their cases of contempt; that

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

29

Spalding v. State of New York.

the money was payable to one party to indemnify him fTr the loss
which he had sustained by the act of the other party; that the
offending party might still be indicted for the same offence, wlich
could not be the case if both were offences -against the public; that
in case the claimant failed afterwards to establish his right to the
money, it would be paid to the defendant, but never to the peopie; that even if it was a debt due to the people, it would, be discharged b' bankruptcy, inasmuch as they had chosen to produce
the relation of debtor and creditor between themselves aud the
offending party.)
It is then a debt. 2 Jacob's Law Dictionary, 200; Ex parte
Smith, 5 Cowen, 277; Wallsworth v. Mead, 9 Johns. Rep. 367;
McDougall v. Richardson, 3 Hill's Rep. 558; Case of James Baker, 2 Strange, 1152. It is not only a debt, but a debt discharged
by the bankrupt law. '2 Molloy, 442; Ex parte Parker, 3Vesey,
554; 1 Deacon, 235; Hopcroft v. Farmer, 8 Moore, 424; Lewis
v. Morland, 2 Barn. & Aid. 56; 1 Sch, & Lef. 169. These cases
establish that the form of the process is not to be considered, but the
cause of its issing ; that if the ground of the proceeding be a debt,
it is a process of debt ; and that if the process is to compel payment of a sum of money, it is a debt. The same views are sustained by the following authorities: 2 Rose's Cases in Bank-'
ruptoy, 196 Cooper's,.Cases in Chancery, 198; The King v. Edwards, 9 Barn. & Cres. 652;. 1 Bos. & Pul. 336;"1 Cowp. 13Q.
Second Point. That there is error in the affirming the decree of
the $ 196"51 of costs-to be paid to the solicitor of the relator, and
that the decree in this case, being void in part, is void in whole,
and must be reversed. -1 Moore's Rep. 494; 4 BI. Com. 285;
13 East, 190.
Third Point. That ifthefine wa imposed for a criminal offence,
the statute under which the same was imposed is repugnant to a
law of Congress, and the'ConstitutioA of the United States, and is
therefore illegal and void.
It is repugnant to the bankrupt law.
I 't. Because it operates as a fraud on the act, by securing a
prference of one creditor over the general creditors.
2d. It seeks to compel the bankrupt to violate the act by paying one creditor before, and at the expense of, the others.
3d. It seeks to .compel a violation of the act, and debars the
bankrupt of its benefits.
The act declares all payments, &c., in contemplation of bankruptcy, and all preferences, void, and a. fraud on the act, and that
the person making. such unlawful payments and preferences shall
receive no discharge.
In our case, after the filing of his petition, the plaintiff in error
was divested of all his property. He could not pay, for he had
nothing. He could not pay the property in his schedules, be0*

30

SUPREMt COURT.
Spalding v. State of New York.

cause it did not belong to him.
And neither the relator nor the
court could receive, and if received, the assignee might have
-recovered it again.
The order and the mittimus, then, sought to enforce an illegal
act, a fraud on the creditors of the bankrupt, and a violation of
the principle of equality among the creditors
It is repugnant to the Constitution.
] st. If a criminal offence, it imposes, under the circumstances,
an excessive fine, and a consequent cruel and unusual punishment.
We have seen, that, on filing his petition in bankruptcy, the
plaintiff in error was by the act divested of all his property.
If he swore to the truth,-his schedules contained it all. If he did
not, it still would belong to the assignee. His decree in bankruptcy was evidence that he had sworn to the truth, and the
imposition of this fine, if criminal and going to the people, was
excessive, and was a cruel punishment for the offence, for it imposed an imp ossibility. The law never imposes a fine, where it
,presumes the party can have nothing to pay. Here was no pesumption, but actual legal evidence, that there was nothing.
f it
be said that the order was made before his petition, and without
knowledge of it, we answer, with full knowledge of all these facts
it is sustained, and sought to be enforced.
2d. It doomed him in fact, by the order of a single judge, to
perpetual imprisonment.
This follows of course;- divested of every thing, - deprived of
'liberty, - the narrow bounds of a prisor cell the fielW 'of his enterprise,-and hours of solitude, without means for the exercise of his
industry, could never enable him to pay this he&vy fine, costs, and
expenses.
3d. It subjects him to punishment twice for the same offence.
We have insisted, that, if the fine was imposed for a criminal
contempt, it is still a debt. And that if the offence is criminal, the
statute is illegal and void; and that the only way in which the statilte can or ought to be sustained is on the 'ground that it is civil,
and that the fact that the fine under it belongs to the party is
proof that it is so.
But it is objected, that the contempt is criminal, because, both
at common law and by the statute, it is indictable ; we say it is
also civil. If indicted, the fine is limited to $ 250. If civil, to the
damages of the party. In our case, the contempt is civil, and the
fine the damages ; and the plaintiff in error is still subject to indictment, and fine of $250. From which does he ask to be discharged ? Certainly not from the -fine on the indictment. Although from that, we insist, as before, that he would be discharged.
We make as our
Fourth Point. The judgment of the relator against the plaintiff
-in error, at the time of the filing of his petition under the bank-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

31

Spalding v. State of New York.

rupt act, was a debt, and the ground on which the proceedings
in chancery were had. The decree or order imposing the fine,
costg, and expenses, therefore, is either a new or additionaldebt,
founded and resting on the original ; or, it is the remedy given by
statute, to enforce, as for contempt, the payment of so much of
the old debt.
If the fine creates a new or additional obligation on the part of
the plaintiff in error to pay, it is a debt, - a debt of no higher
nature or greater importance than a judgment for a tort, as a trespass on the person or the property of the relator, from vhich
under the bankrupt law he would be discharged. (Cooke, B. R.
2, 5, 574.).
'As a new or additional debt, it was certain, fixed, and definite,
previous to the filing of his petition, and provable under the Act,
-provable by the relator, being his ascertained damages, imposed
for his benefit, and payable to him, by the statute ascertaining and
fixing it. By his certificate, therefore, he is discharged from it.
2 Rose, 196 ; Cooper, 198; 9 Barn. & Cres. 652 ; 1 Bos. &
Pul. 336.
Or, if so much of the old debt, and the order, decree, and mittimus the remedy under the statute for its enforcement, then the
plaintiff in error, being discharged from aie debt itself, must be from
the remedy for its enforcement.
Here, then, the plaintiff in error was ordered and decreed to
pay the relator $ 3,000 and the expenses; which $ 3,000 would and
must, if received by the relator, reduce so much of his judgment ;
what act or event would discharge the plaintiff in error from this
order ? Would the receipt of the relator ? Certainly. Would a
satisfaction of that judgment under the hand of the relator? Undoubtedly. Why ? Because it would be a legal discharge.
Then why not, by the law of the land, as flly and clearly discharged from that judgment by his certificate discharging him from
all his debts, as though he had produced the satisfaction piece of
the relator ? The one, the legal discharge of the relator ; the
other, equally so of the bankrupt law.
When discharged from the judgment, he is discharged from the
execution, or process to enforce its collection, or any part of it,
the sarme as if imprisoned on a capias ad satisfaciendum ; the debt
being discharged, the remedy passes with it, for there is nothing
left to operate upon. For, if the money had been paid 'into
court, it never could have become the relator's without proof of
the existence of the judgment as alleged in his bill. If that judgment is satisfied at any time before the money paid over by court
to the relatoi, the money would revert to the plaintiff in error, or,
in this case, to the assignee in bankruptcy.
As a new debt or obligation, or as a remedy for the collection

3SUPREME

COURT.
SmaIding v. State of New York.

of so'much of the old debt or judgment, therefore, the plaintiff in
error is equally discharged by his certificate.
Again, this is manifest. The relator sought by his bill to collect this debt, say $ 5,000 ; he obtains a lies on $ 3,000, which
is removed.by the plaintiff in error ; and he is ordered to replace
it by paying that amount into court. If done, the relator suffers
no injury. The relator sustains his bill by proving his judgment
or debt of $ 5,000, and obtains an order that the $ 3,000 in court
be paid over to him. Cqn it be supposed for a moment, that he
is still entitled to a decree for theful amount 6f his judgment of
5,000 in addition ?
And yet this is the certain result of the decision of the Court of
Errors. For if the $ 3,000 is paid to the relator, it cannot be applied to the payment of so much of the payment, because the
whole of that is discharged by the certificate in bankruptcy And
because, under the present decision, the fine is no part of it.
The relator, ,however, must prosecute his bill of complaint to
a decr e, before he can obtain an order for the payment of the
S3,000 to him. And that decree must be for the whole amount
of his judgment of $ 5,000, because, under the said decree, the
$ 3,000 is no part ; - ti us receiving the $ 3,000, and a decree
for $ 5,000 in addition. Presenting the extraordinary fact, - a
fact, too, without precedent in the courts of law or equity of this
or any other country (but in direct violation of the common principles of .both), - that a party, seeking to collect a civil demand
of $ 5,000, may, by the act of the defendant, occasioning no injury whatever to him, be entitled to recover of that defendant
$8,000.
A decision producing such a result is erroneous, and
must be reversed.
We have not urged in this court the point made by us in the
courts below, in relation to the power of the Supreme Court commissioner to discharge the plaintiff in error on his certificate,
because it does not involve the all-important questions on which
this case depends, and if the certificate entitles him to a discharge, it ceases to be a point of importance.
The point, that the voluntary part of the bankrupt law is unconstitutional, although on the printed points of the defendants in error in the court below, was not passed (upon, raised, presented, or
alluded to in the Court of Errors, and cannot therefore be raised
-here.
•Mr. Delano, f6r defendants.
The points now made are the same, on the part of the defendants, as those insisted upon before the Court of Errors.
First. The Supreme Court commissioner, Center, had no authority to discharge the plaintiff in error. All the proceedings
before him were without jurisdiction, and void.

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

Spalding v. State of New-York.

1. Because the plaintiff in error was convicted and punished
by the Court of Chancery, as for a criminal contempt, the cause
of his imprisonment being plainly and specially stated in the mittimus.

A contempt, in its legal acceptation, means the treating of i
court of justice, or person invested with judicial authority, in a
contumelious or disrespectful manner, or in violating rules or orders made by competent tribunals. 6 Petersdorff Abr. 106, 157.
The contempt, of which the plaintiff in error was convicted,

was a criminal contempt. This is defined, in the Revised Statutes
of New York, to be the wilful dis6bedience of any propess or order lawfullkr issued or made by any court of record. 2 Rev.
Stat. 278 ; 2d ed. 207, § 10.
This species of contempt is also punishable, by indictment, by
the laws of New York. Rev. Stat. 692, § 14; 2d ed. 577.
These enactments are merely declaratory of the common law,
as it existed previous to the Revised Statutes ; and the object
of them is to define and limit the nature of the offence and the
powers of the courts.
Blackstone enumerates, among the crimes for which punishment
might be judicially inflicted, a contempt of the process of any of
the superior courts of the king.
" A solid and obvious distinction exists between contempts,
strictly such, and those offences which go by that name, but which
are punished as contempts only, for the purpose of enforcing some
civil remedy." This distinction is clearly marked in the Revised
Statutes of New York, and the note of the revisers shows subh
was their intention. The contempt, of which the plaintiff- in error'
was found guilty, was the wilful digobedience of the process of
injunction. He did not refrain from doing what he was enjoined
not to do. The power to punish for a wilful disobedience of process of this kind is essential to the administration of justice ;
without it, the writ of injunction in many cases would be entirely
nugatory. When the process, which goes by.the name of contempt, is merely to collect money which the party may not be able
to pay, it is then properly deemed a mere civil remedy. 4 Black.
Com. by Chitty, 122 ; I Hawkins's Pleas of the Crown, 149,
150; 1 Kent's Com. 300, note (b), 3d ed. ; 3 Rev. Stat. 696,
original note to §§ 10- 15.
If the contempt was a criminal contempt, it being clearly set
out in the mittimus, the commissioner, Joseph Center, had no authority to discharge the plaintiff in error, nor had he any jurisdliction ov the matter. But it was the duty of the commissiouer to
remand ,he party to the custody of the officer, if any contempt
was plainly and specially charged in the commitment. The discharge of the commissioner could not, therefore, be any valid ob5
VOL. xv.

SUPIE.ME

COURT.

Spalding' v. State of New York.

jection to the issue of the second alias mittimus. It was not a
subjectover which the commissioner had jurisdiction.
. 2. Because the commissioner, not being a court of justice, as
required by the bankrupt act, had no authority to try the fact,
whether the discharge was duly granted, or not.
The commissioner has merely the power of a judge of the Supreme Court at chambers. No issue could be mada up or tried.
The discharge might be impeached for fraud, &c., and no court
can give effect to the discharge, which has not power to inquire
into its validity. An issue was claimed, and the relator required
an opportunity to try the question.
The act of Congress neither expressly, nor by implication,
vests any such authority in a commissioner, and he is expressly
prohibited from its exercise by the forty-second section of the
habeas corpus act.3. -No discharge could be granted if the bankrupt act released
the plaintiff in error, except by application to the Court of Chancery..
A dontrary course would lead to a conflict of jurisdiction between the several courts. The uniform practice mn Eigland and
in this country is believed to have been to apply to the court
where the judgment or decree is, or from which the process issued. (Act to amend the Lawrelating to Bankrupts, 6 Geo. IV.,
ch. 16, § 126.)
Second. The discharge under the act to establish a uniform
system of bankruptcy did not release the plaintiff in error, although the Supreme Court commissioner had no jurisdiction ; yet
as the order appealed from was an application for i second alias
mittimus, and the court held the discharge did not apply to the
case, and was no answer to the application, the question in relation to the effect & the discharge in bankruptcy is presented by
the'case. The jurisdiction of the commissioner is not important,
except' as an answer to the point which maybe made by the plaintiff in error, that there was a decision by, a competent tribunal,
not vacated or reversed, and that such decision could not be inquired into on the application to the Court of Chancery. The
principal question remains, namely, the effect of the discharge of
the plaintiff in error under the bankrupt act. '
If this contempt wd criminal, the power of Congress to grant
a dispensatin tor crimes might well be questioned. It is not
necessary to repeat what has been said under our first point.
The act of Congress, commonly called the bankrupt act, does not
embrace this case. The fourth section of the act declares the
effect-of the discharge in these words : -"
And such discharge
and certificate, when duly granted, shall, in all courts of justice,
be deemed a full and complete discharge of all debts, contracts,
and other engagements of such bankrupt which are provable under

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

35

Spalding v. State of New York.

this act, and shall and may be pleaded as a full and complete bar
to all suits brought in any court of judicature whatever." The
only debts discharged are those provable under the act. If the
fine imposed upon the plaintiff in error was not a debt provable
under the act, the discharge does not present a bar. The fine
imposed was not a debt, contract, or engagement. The course
of practice in such cases is, as was done in this case, to order the
money paid into court to abide the final result of the cause. A creditor's bill had been filed, and an injunction obtained ; and for the
wilful and voluntary breach of this injunction, the fine was imposed.
Although the fine was imposed, in part, to indemnify the party,
yet he had no claim to it until the result of the litigation should
give it to him. It was to be paid into. court, and there remain, to
abide the final order of the court. It was not a debt provable
under the act, for there was no one to prove it. In no way could
it be proved as a debt. It was no more a debt than a fine for assault and battery, or any other fine or punishment which may have
been imposed for violated law. It is contended, however, that
the fine being imposed, in p#t, to enforce a civil remedy, this
takes away the criminal character of the contempt, and assimilates
the proceeding to that class of cases where it is conceded that the
process is merely to provide a remedy for the collection of money
n.those cases where an execution cannot issue. It is true, that,
aside from any injury to the aggrieved party, the fine is limited to
$250, and the imprisonment to six months. The contempt is as
criminal when it impedes and obstructs civil remedies, as when it
does not. The crime consists, in this case, in the wilful disobedience of the process or order of a court of record ; nd the
remedy to the party is also given in such cases by statute. Where
an actual loss or injury-shall have been produced to any party by
the misconduct alleged, a fine shall be imposed sufficient to indemnify, and to satisfy his costs and expenses, &c. (§ 22.) In all
other oases, the fine shall not exceed $250. Courts of record
are, by the statute, authorized, and had power without it, to enforce
remedies of parties by inflicting this punishment. The cases, of attachments for nonpayment of costs, or for the nonpayment of any
sum of money, nonperformance of an award where money is
awarded, it is conceded, are merely remedies in nature of an execution. They require the performance of duties which may be
beyond the ability of the party to discharge. This is 'not criminal. The crime consists in a wilful, inexcusable, and unatoned
for disobedience of some lawful order or process. The definition implies the power to obey, but makes the corpus delicti
consist in what is tile essence of all crime, malafides, - a deliberate design to obstruct the course of justice, and contemn the
requirements of the process. Of this contempt the plaintiff in

8SUPREME

COURT.
Spalding

.. State of New York.

error was adjudged guilty, and

fine was imposed to compensate

the party.
The cases cited, in the opinion of the Vice-Chancellor and
Chancellor, sustain these views. The following cases also illustrate
our positions : -People v. Nevins, 1 Hill's Rep. 154 ; Ex parte
Parker, 3 Ves. 554 ; Rex v. Stokes, 1 Cowper, 136,; 1 Atkyns, 262 ; Rex v. Pixey, Bunb. 202.
Third. The voltntary part of the bankrupt act is unconstitutional. It is not intended to present any argument on this 'point.
The case does not probablk require it; and if it did, the whole
subject has 'been so frequently discussed, that it is not supposed
we can add any ihing to the labor.of others.
The relator, or defendant in error, claims that the writ of error
in this cause 'was sueji out for the purposes of delay only, and
therefore asks that the judgment be affirnied, with the highest rate
of damages and costs.
Mr. Chief-Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The court have considered this case, and have come to the
conclusion that the judgment of the Court of the State of New
York for the Correction of Errors must be affirmed. But there is
some difference amoig the justices who concur in affirming the
judgment as to the principles upon which the affirmance ought to
be placed. No fuxrther opinion will, therefore, be delivered, than
merely to pronounce the judgment of this court, affirming the
judgment rendered-by the state court.
Mr. Justice McLEAN.
I dissent from the judgment of the cofirt.,
Mr. Justice WAYNE.
I do not concur with the majority of the court, and think that
the judgment of the Court for the Trial of Impeachments and
for the Correction of Errors should be reversed.

