JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

19

Jourdan et al. v. Barrett ot al.

No

JouRn~w Aw JosEP
Jo.

LMWRt, PLAmiFrs m EEtoK, v. TioixO

s

BrnxRT xT A..
Under the former government of Louisiana, the regulations of O'Reilly, Gayoso,
and Morales recognized the equitable claim of the owners of tracts of land fronting on rivers, &c., to a portion of the public lands which were back of them,
and after the cession, the United States did so also.
The act of Congress passed on the 3d of March, 183,1 (2 Lit. & Brown's ed. 662), extended to the front owner a preference to enter the land behind him. Thatactalo
provided, that where, owing to a bend in the river, each claimant could not obtain
a tract equal in quantity to the tract already owned by him, the principal deputy
surveyor of each district, under the superintendence of the surveyorofthe public
lands south of the State of Tennessee, should divide the vacant land amongst'
the claimants in such manner as to him might seem most equitable.
The act of March 2d, 1805, had extended the power of the surveyor of lands south
of Tennessee over the Territory of Orleans, and the act of April 27th, 1806,
had directed him to appoint two principal deputies, one for each district of. the
Territory of Orleans.
The act of March 3d, 1831, directed the appointment ofa surveyor-general ofpublic
lands in Louisiana, after the 1st of May, 1831.
In March, 1832, therefore, the surveyor of public lands south of Tennessee had
no power to approve a survey.
The act of 1811 reserved for the public all such back lands as were not correctly
taken up under that act by the proprietors of river-fronts; and those who did not
enter their claims in time did not lose whatever equity they may have had before the passage of the act.
An unauthorized survey by one of the claimants did not confer upon him any additional rights.
In executing the acts of 1820 and 1832, claimants were allowed to pay for the
largest amount which they claimed, but the precise amount due on the exact
quantity of land to which they were entitled could not appear until the final
survey.
When the land was laid out into ranges, townships, &c., the survey of township
No. 11, approved by H. S Williams, surveyor-general of Louisiana, settled the
rights of parties-in that township.
A possession of any part of these tack lands, anterior to this survey, cannot be set
up as a defence under the laws of Louisiana, because the lands belonged to theUnited States and those persons in possession were trespassers.

TuIs case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Louisiana for the Eastern District, by.a writ of error, issued under the
25th section of thQ Judiciary Act.
They were petitory actions, according to the practice of Louisiana, brought by the plaintiffs in error against Barrett, to recover
some land, and as they involved the same questions of law, they
were consolidated in the courts of that State.
By referring to the diagram (which will be found on the next
page), it will be seen that Jourdan and Landry were the owners
of land fronting on the Mississippi River, and running back about
forty arpents. There were nearly forty other proprietors similarly
situated, between a and c, whose location it is not necessary to
insert. Their lands were all bounded in the rear by a line running
nearly parallel with the river, so as to include the quantity called for
in their respective grants.
vQL. iv.
22
0

170

SUPREME COURT.
Jourdan et al. v. Barrett et al.

The facts in the case were these.
On the 3d of March, 1811, Congress passed an act, entitled
"An Act providing for the final adjustment of claims to lands,
and for the sale of the public lands, in the Territories of Orleans
and Louisiana, and to repeal the act passed for the same purpose,
and approved February 16, 1811." (2 Lit. & Brown's ed. 662.)

a b and b c are the township lines.
d ef.g, land fronting on the river, belonging to Landry.
h i k , land fronting on the river, belonging to Jourdan.
r efmo n I k s, the boundary-line of all the original grants, showing how far back
they extended from the river.
7n n o p, the land claimed by Barrett, under Bringier.
By running the lines of Jourdan's and Landry's grants back from the river, it is
easy to see how they would respectively clash with Barrett's claim.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

171'

.Jourdan et al. v. Barrett et al.

The fifth section was as follows :5th. "That every person who, either by virtue of a French or
Spanish grant recognized by the laws of the United States, or
under a claim confirmed by the commissioners appointed for the
purpose of ascertaining the rights of persons claiming lands in the
Territory of Orleans, owns a tract of land, bordering on any river,
creek, bayou, or water-course, in the said territory, and not- exceeding in depth forty arpents, French measure, shall be entitled to
a preference in becoming the purchaser of any vacant tract of
land adjacent to, and back of, his own tract, not exceeding forty
arpentp, French measure, in depth, nor in quantity of land that
which is contained in his own tract, at the same price, and on the
same terms and conditions, as are or may be provided by law for
the other public lands in the said territory. And the principal
deputy surveyor of each district, -respectively, shall be, and he is,
hereby authorized, under the superintendence of the surveyor of
the public lands south of the State. of Tennessee, to cause to be
surveyed the tracts claimed by virtue of this section ; and in all
cases where, by reason of bends in the river, lake, creek, bayou,
or water-course bordering on the tract, and of adjacent claims of
a similar nature, each claimant cannot obtain a tract equal in quantity to the adjacent tract already owned by him, to divide
the vacant land applicable to that object between the several claimants, in such manner as to him may appear most equitable; Provided, however, that the right of preEmption granted
by this section shall not extend so far in depth as to include lands
fit for cultivation bordering on another river, creek, bayou, or
water-course. And every person entitled to the benefit of this
section shall, within three years after the date of this act, deliver,
to the register of the proper land-office, a notice in writing, stating
the situation and extent of the tract of land he wishes to purchase,
and shall also make the payment and paymenis for the same at the
time and times which are or may be prescribed by law for the
disposal of the other public lands in the said territory ; the time of
his delivering the notice aforesaid being considered as the date of
the purchase. And if any such person shall fail to deliver such
notice within the said period of three years, or to make such payment or payments at the time above mentioned, his right of preemption shall cease and become void ; and the land may thereafter
be purchased by any other person in the same manner and on the
same terms as are or may be provided by law for the sale of other
public lands in the said territory."
On the 11th of May, 1820, Congress passed another act (3
Lit. & Brown's ed. 573), entitled, "An Act supplementary to
the several acts for the adjustment of land-claims in the State of
Louisiana," the seventh section of which was as follows.
" That the fifth section of the act of the 3d day of March,

172

SUPREME COURT.
Jourdan et al. v. Barrett et al.

1811, entitled, 'An Act providing for the final adjustment,' &c., &c.,
be, and the same is, hereby revived and continued for the term of
two years fom and after the passing of this act."
On the 12th of April, 1822, Bringier, under whom Barrett, the
defendant claimed, filed the following application.
To the 'Register of the Land-office for the Eastern District of
Louisiana, at New Orleans.
SIR, -In virtue of an act of Congress, dated 11th May, 1820,
I apply to become. the purchaser of a tract of land adjacent to
and back of a front tract already owned by me, which said front
tract contains 27 arpents 13 toises and 2 feet front, and forty
arpents in depth, bounded as follows, viz., front on the left
bank of the Mississippi, on the upper side by land of Baptiste Loviere, and below by lands of Paul Le Blanc. This land, composed of four tracts, confirmed in the name of .Alexis Cesar Bonremy, and in the name of James Melanqon. Two arpents, on the
lower side, have been sold. The said back land, now claimed by
right of preemption, extends in depth
arpents,
beginning at the rear of the said front tract, aad contains five hundred and ten superficial acres, not being a greater quantity than is
contained in iny front tract, and does not extend so far back as to
include any land fit for cultivation, bordering on any river, creek,
bayou, or water-course.
-(Signed,)
ML. DORADON BRINGIER.
JNew Orleans, qprl 12th, 1822.
On the 13th of April, 1822, Bringier paid to the receiver $ 637"50,
as the price of the land.
On the 17th of May, 1822, Hiarper, the register, issued the
following certificate.
I certify, that from the records in my office, expressing the
quantity of land contained in the applicant's front tract (the surveys in this district not having been executed), and in virtue of the
laws in this case made and provided, it appears the said applicant
is entitled to the-quantity of land for which he has applied, viz.,
five hundred and ten superficial acres, on paying the price of one
dollar and twenty-five cents per acre.
(Signed,)
SAMUEL H. HARPER, Register.
On the 17th of December, 1822, John Wilson, subscribing
himself principal deputy surveyor for that district, surveyed the
tract of land at the request of Bringier, who took possession of it.
It is unnecessary to state the mesne conveyances by which the
title was passed, through sundry persons, from Bringier to Barrett,
who was in possession at the institution of the present suits.
In 1829, the township and sectional lines were run, for the first

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

173

Jourdan et al. v. Barrett et al.

time, over this district, in the mode pursued in running out other
public lands of the United States.
On the.10th of June, 1830, a survey was completed, under the
authority and with the approbation of A. T. Rightor, principal
deputy surveyor of the exterior boundaries of the township and of
the lands in question, together with others, which survey was reexamined and approved by Gideon Fitz, surveyor of public lands
south of Tennessee, on the 9th of March, 1832. This survey
differed in some degree from the one previously made by Wilson,
although agreeing with it in substance; and being adopted by
Bringier and his grantees as the basis of their title, has been followed in the preceding diagram.
On the 15th of June, 1832,. Congress passed another act (4
Lit. & Brown's ed. 539), entitled, "An Act to authorize the inhabitants of the State of Louisiana to enter the back lands." It did
not refer to either of the two preceding acts, but in substance, and
nearly in the same words, reinacted the fifth section of the act
of 1811, limiting the time of making application to three years from
the date of the act.
On the 9th of August, 1834, Jourdan, one of the plaintiffs in
error, obtained from the receiver the following certificateRECEIVER'S OFFICE, So. EAST. DIST. LA.
.New Orleans, Adugust 9th, 1834,
Received from Noel Jourdan, of the parish of St. James, the
sum of three hundred and thirty-six
dollars, bding in full of
the purchase money of his pregmption right by virtue of an act of
Congress authorizing the inhabitants of Ijuisiana to enter their
back lands, approved 15th June, 1832, to a tract of land adjacent
to and ack of his front tract, situate in township No. 11, range
No. 3 east; and containing two hundred and sixty-nine - superficial acres, at one dollar and twenty-five cents, as per register's
certificate, numbered No. 9.
(Signed,)
MAURICE CANNON,
Receiver of Public loneys.
On the 8th of March, 1836, Landry, the other plaintiff in error,
obtained the following certificate.
No. 520.

RECEIVER'S OFFICE, So. EAST. DIST. LA.
XNew Orleans, 8th,March, 1836.
Received from Joseph Landry, of the parish of St. James, the
sum of one hundred and ninety-two 7 dollars, being in full of the
purchase money of his preemption rights, by virtue of an act of
Congress, authorizing the inhabitants of Louisiana to enter their
back lands, approved 15th June, 1832, to a tract of land adjacent
to and back of his front tract, situate in 'township
No. 11, ranga
o
0 .

174

SUPREME

COURT.

Jourdan et al. v. Barrett et al.

No. 3 east; and containing one hundred and fifty-four , superficial
acres, at one dollar and twenty-five cents, as per register's certificate, numbered 520, and being described as section No. 19.
(Signed,)
MAURICE CANNON,
Receiver of Public .Money.t.
In February, 1838, Jourdan and Landry filed separate petitions
in the District Court for the First Judicial District of the State of
Louisiana, claiming their respective back lands. Barrett, who was
then in possession of the tract surveyed for Bringier, answered the
petition and called in warranty, according to the Louisiana practice, all the intermediate grantors between Bringier and himself
and Bringier also. They all responded to the call, and various
evidence was taken and filed in the causes, which, as has been
already mentioned, were consolidated and prosecuted together.
On the 22d of March, 1838, the court adjudged and decreed
that judgment should be entered for Baiett, the defendant ; an appeal being made to the Supreme Court of Louisiana, that court, on
the 21st of January, 1839, affirmed the judgment, to review which
a writ of error brought the case up to this court.
The case was argued by Air. Coze, for the plaintiffs in error,
and .Mr. Crittenden, for the defendant.

ir. Coxe referred to the act of'3 March, 1811, chap. 46, 2
Lit. & Brown's ed. 662 ; 1 Land Laws, 196 ; the act of 11 May,
1820, chap. 87, 3 Lit. & Brown's ed. 573; Land Laws, 331 ;
the act of 15 June, 1832 ; Land Laws, 499 ; and the act of February 24,1835, and contended that the title claimed by the plaintiffs
was not so far forfeited by nonclaim, under the first two statutes,
as to become incapable of confirmation under the subsequent legislation of Congress.
.t4r. Crittenden, for defendant in error.
This is a suit for land in the Stae of Louisiana. The controversy arises out of interfering claims, which originate in the acts
of Congress granting to the proprietors of lands fronting on the
Mississippi River, &c., a right of pregmption of the lands lying
back of and adjoining their original or front tracts, and not exceeding the qutantity thereof.
I
The acts of Congress, so far as they affect this case, are three
in number; namely, an act of the 3d of March, 1811, 2 Lit.
& Brown's ed. 662 ; an act of the 11th of May, 1820, 3 Lit.
& Brown's ed. 573 ; and an act of the 15th of June, 1832, 4
Lit. & Brown's ed. 534.
The 5th section of the act of 1811, having expired by its own
limitation of three years, was revived and continued in force for

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

175

Jourdan et al. v. Barrett et al.

two years by the act of the 1I th of May, 1820. M. D. Bringier,
being of that class of proprietors embraced by the above acts, and
owning land bordering on the Mississippi River, and not exceeding
in depth'forty arpents, French measure, was entitled to the right of
preemption granted thereby ; and, intending to avail himself of the
preference and privilege given to him, he did, on the 12th day of
April, 1822, and within the two years allowed by the said act of
1820, deliver to the register of the proper land-office a notice, in
writing, of the situation and extent of the land he wished to purchase, and did make payment for the same, as required by law,
and did thereby become the purchaser of the land, namely, 510
acres.
The land so purchased by Bringier was surveyed for him on the
17th of December, 1822, by John Wilson, principal deputy surveyor for that district. Afterwards, on the 10th of June, 1830,
M. F. Rightor, then principal deputy surveyor for Louisiana, undertook to make, and did make, another survey of Bringier's
claim, variant but little from the survey of Wilson. This survey
of Rightor's was. approved by the surveyor-general of the public
lands south of Tennessee, on the 9th of March, 1832. And to
this later survey, Bringier and those claiming under him have submitted, and limited his claim and possession, and the land'in contest
lies within its boundaries. Bringier took possession of the land at
the period of his purchase, and the possession has ever since been
continued in him and those claiming under him. Bringier sold and
conveyed his plantation, called Whitehall, including, the land
aforesaid, to the late'General Wade Hampton, on the 9th of Febmary, 1825 ; who, on the 6th of April, 1829, sold and conveyed
the same to Leroy Pope, who, on the 18th of March, 1833, sold
and conveyed the same to the defendant, Thomas Barrett. At the
time of Bringier's purchase aforesaid, no survey had been made of
the land, nor was any general survey made of the public lands in
that district till long after.
Barrett was thus entitled and in possession under Bringier, and
the act of 1820, under which his claim was derived, had long since
expired, when the Congress passed the said act of the 15th of June,
1832, reinacting, in substance, the 5th section of the act of 1811,
and extended its operation as well to all purchasers from the United
States as to French and Spanish claimants, to whom all the previous acts had been confined. Under this act of 1832, Noel
Jourdan and Joseph Landry, claiming severally and respectively,
under French or Spanish claims confirmed by the United States,
lands bordering and fronting on the Mississippi River, and lying
contiguous to the aforesaid claim of Bringier, asserted their right
of preemption to the lands back of their original tracts,, and purchased, Noel Jourdan 269"44 acres, on the 9th of August, 1834,
and Joseph Landry 154"21 acres, on the 8th of March, 1836.

176

SUPREME COURT.
Jourdan et al. v. Barrett et al.

In his general survey and township map of the litigated and circumjacent lands, made in 1834, Mr. Williams, the surveyor-general for Louisiana, has undertaken to survey and apportion out to
the plaintiffs and defendant, respectively, who are all contiguous
and front proprietors, the lands lying back of them ; and this he
does by a prolongation of the side lines of each front tract to the
depth of forty arpents from the back line of the front tracts.
These side lines are all perpendicular to the river, and converge
as they recede from it, owing perhaps to their being situated within
a bend.
This mode of surveying and settling the claims of these preemptioners, by a prolongation of the side lines of their original
tracts, was adopted and acted upon by the surveyor (Williams) in
his survey of 1834, and seems to have been approved of by the
surveying department. The effect of it is, that the claim of
Bringier (now held by Barrett) is curtailed, and the subsequent
claims of Landry and Jourdan are made to interfere, the former
to the extent of 31 acres, the latter of 33 acres, with the prior
claim and survey of Bringier.
For these interferences, Landry and Jourdan respectively
brought suit against Barrer, in the District Court for the First Judicial District of Louisiana. PQpe, the heirs of Hampton, and
Bringier, were, in the progress of the suit, cited in warranty, and
made defendants.
By consent of parties, the suits of Jourdanv. Barrett and Landry v. Barrett were consolidated, and were tried and decided
together.
The above statement contains the material and leading facts on
which the rights of the parties depend.
Upon the trial in the District Court, judgment was rendered in
favor of Barrett ; and, upon appeal by the plaintiffs to the Supreme Court of Louisiana, that judgment was affirmed. And the
plaintiffs now prosecute their writ of error in the Supreme Court
of the United States.
The reasoning of the District and Supreme Courts of Louisiana, on which the,. judgment *was founded, appears to me to be
entirely satisfactory and unanswerable.
If the conflicting claims of the parties litigant had been contemporaneous, and connected by having a common origin from ti - same act of Congress, such an apportionment as that made by t1=
last survey (the survey of 'Williams),and now insisted or by the
llaintiffs, might have been proper. But such a rule can have no
application to a case like the present. Bringier had made a legal
appropriation of the land under the act of 1820. From the expiration of that act, which gave the right of preemption for two
years only, until the passage of the act of the 15th of June, 1832,
there-was no right or title of any description conflicting with that

JANUARY TERM, 1846-.

177

J.ouraan et al. v. Barrett et al.

of Bringier. It was not the intention or within the competency of
Congress to impair, diminish, or take away, by this latter act, the
previously acquired or vested rights of Bringier.
The land appropriated by him under the act of 1820 was not
"vacant" at the passage of the act of 1832 ; and this latter act
gives no more than the preemptive right to lands "1vacant" at the
time of its passage.
It is therefore insisted, on the part of Barrett, that the judgment
ought to be affirmed.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The record brings before us two petitory actions ; one of
Landry against Barrett; and the other of Jourdan against he
same defendant. The State District Court of Louisiana adjudged
the title of Barrett the better, and for this reason decided in his
favor in both actions ; but in that of Landry it was also held, that
the title to the land he claimed was invalid, because he produced
no other evidence of claim than the receipt of the receiver above
set forth, dated 8th March, 1836 ; that the act of June 15, 1832,
limited his right to purchase to three years ; and not having filed
his notice of claim, and paid his money, until the 8th of March,
1836, he came too late, and for this reasoni also, the petition must
be dismissed. The judgment being affirmed generally by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, and being opposed to the authority exercised by the officers of the United States, acting in virtue of
acts of Congress, it becomes our duty to examine whether the
judgmentbelow was proper on this ground. We find the District
Court overlooked the act of February 24, 1835,ivhich extended
the time to the 15th of June, 1836, to owners of front tracts to become purchasers by preference of the back tracts adjacent to those
owned by them ; so that the purchase made by Landry on the 8th of
March, 1836, was in-time. It follows, the claims of Landry and
Jourdan are alike ; and the opposing claim of Barrett, being the same
as to each of the petitioners, the controversy may be treated as one
suit. It depends on mixed questions of law and fact ; both having
been submitted to the courts below for their judgment, without the aid
of a jury ; and as the facts giving rise to the controversy call for
constructiorr of acts of Congress to give the facts effect, they
come before this court for its action under the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act. This is the settled doctrine here, as will be seen
by the cases of Pollard's heirs v. Kibbie (14 Peters, 353), The
City of Mobile v. Eslava (16 Peters, 234), and Chouteau v. Eckhart (2 How. 372).
Neither party has a patent ; and each comes before us asserting
a superior equity to the lands in dispute. Barrett insists that the
entry under which he claims title, dated April 12, 1822, was made
for a specific quantity of 510 superficial acres, and designated by
VOL.

Iv.

23

178

SUPREME COURT.
Jourdan et al. v. Barrett et-al.

survey and side lines ten years and more before the opposing
claims originated, and therefore his possession cannot be disturbed
by their assertion.
is insisted that Bringier, under whom BarOn the other hand, it,
rett claims title, had no preference extended to him by the act of
May 11, 1820, to enter so much as 510 acres as back land to the
Whitehall tract ; that it fronted on the inside of a bend of the
Mississippi River, and conformed to Spanish and French forty arpent concessions made on fronts, in concave bends, in the extension of side lines; which uniformly converged in proportion to
the greater or less 'circle of the bend ; that the Whitehall tract
was much narrower on the back than on the front side ; that the
act of Congress did not permit Bringier to enter any other back
land than that within his direct side lines, produced from the river
eighty arpents deep ; and that Barrett's equity is limited to the
" back land," in quantity to forty arpents deep within these lines,
although much less than 510 acres. And that, as this mode of surveying the double concession will not include the land entered by
either of the petitioners, their are entitled to recover ; furthermore,
that in this form has Barrett's claim been surveyed by public authority, and in no other.
In December, 1832, Bringier caused Wilson, a surveyor, to
run out his claim of 510 acres, in the same form of the front
tract ; that is, he began at the back terminus of each side line of
the-old tract, and ran diverging lines so as to make the opposite
side of his new survey of the same width with the- front on the
river, thus making a tract of 1,020 acres, little more than half
as wide in the middle as it is at either end. This survey was
neither returned to, nor recorded in, the surveyor-general's office ; nor recognized by the officers of the United States as a public survey. Bringier, and those claiming under him, however,
took and held possession of the land surveyed, and improved the
same, assuming that it covered the land entered in 1832, and that
*it was lawfully made ; at least, as against any claim the petitioners
can be permitted to set up. This we suppose mainly to depend
on the true construction of the act of 1811, which was renewed from time to time.
The surveys of township No. 11, including the lands in dispute, were not made until th fall of 1829 and spring of 1830,
and then only in part, both as to the ordinary extension- lines, and
as regarded the private grants and back lands subject to be attached by preference of entry to front grants. Until these latter
were surveyed, they could not be acted on as to specific quantity.
By the act of March 2, 1805, section 7, the powers of the surveyor of lands south of Tennessee were extended over the Territory of Orleans. And by the 9th section of the act of April
21, 1806, he was directed to appoint two principal deputies, one

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

179

Jourdan et al. v. Barrett et al.

for each of the districts into which the Orleans Territory was divided ; who were to keep separate offices of their own, and to execute public surveys in their respective districts, in conformity to
the regulations and instructions of their principal.
By the act of March 3, 1831, ;a surveyor-general of public
lands lying in the State of Louisiana was ordered to be appointed ; and on whom, within tha State, were devolved the duties
formerly imposed on the surveyun of lands south of Tennessee ;
that is, after the Ist of May, 1831 ; and also the duties of the
two principal deputies authorized by the act of 1806. The latter
offices were abolished, and the duties appertaining to them merged
in the surveyor-general's office of Louisiana. That officer took
charge of the ofilcial records and papers ; and on him was imposed
the duty of doing equity among those eatitled to back concessions
under the acts of 1820 and 1832, where it had not been previously
done. His own deputies did the field work not done on his coming into office ; and in his time were the surveys in township No..
11 completed; and by him were they first approved after their
completion. This the government recognizes as the legal survey
of the township, by which the United States are bound, and on
extracts from which patents and certificates can be founded ; and to
this end the approved plan of it was filed in the register's office
of the Southeastern District of Louisiana, on the 8th of August,
1834 ; by it all those purchasing from the United States, either
by preference of entry, or otherwise, are bound to abide, unless
legal alterations have been made, or there were existing legal and
sanctioned surveys, laying off back lands to particular front owners,
independent of the general survey. None such was made foi the
Whitehall tract, as we think, and its back land) as to extent and
form, is governed by the general plan ^above named. The one
made by Rightor's direction, approved by Gideon Fitz, surveyor
of public lands south of Tennessee (March 9, 1832), received
no additional value from such approval, as the act of 1831 superseded his authority in this respect. Rightor deposes, that at no
time had the surveyor south of Tennessee any power of approval
or supervision of the surveys made .by him, Rightor, as principal
deputy ; and that the surveys made by Foster and Walker in the
spring of 1830, and approved by Rightor, as principal deputy,
June 10, 1830, in h;s judgment bound the United States, as to
the form and extent of the land attached to the Whitehall tract.
The commissioner of the general land-office thought the survey
on its face an unwarrantable proceeding, as it cut off the back lands
of Bringier's neighbours, and violated the act of- 1811. 2 Land
Laws, No. 950. • And we think the commissioner was right
in his conclusion. Claims of double concessions in Louisiana
were not new in practice ; surveys of such claims were common,
and the direct extension of the side lines of the front tract was the

180

SUPREME COURT.
Jourdan et al. -. Barrett et a).

equity, as a general rule, accorded to them, as we apprehend ; and
so gross a Violation of it as is found in Bringier's survey could not
be sanctioned.
In April, 1822, when Bringier's entry was made, there can be
no fair pretence to say he acquired by the entry an equity to the
extent of Wilson's or Rightor's survey, as against others having
at that time equal rights to enter back land, which rights the survey assumed to defeat. By his entry Bringier acquired an equity
to certain land', to be laid off in a form not to interfere with his
neighbours having equal rights under the law. They did not enter, probably because his unjust, pretended claim deterred them ;
and failing to do so until the time expired, Bringier assumed that
his equity might be enlarged, and was enlarged, to the extent that
Rightor's or Wilson's survey goes.
We think this assumption cannot be sustained; what equity
Bringier acquired took date with his entry, and his survey ought
to have been the same, had no one claiming front lands interfered,
as the act of Congress reserved for future sale all the back lands
not entered in time ; a provision that would have been altogether
defeated in this instance, if the assumption was true. For nearly
-twenty years after the act of 1811 was passed, the government
failed to survey the back lands, so as to afford an opportunity to
front owners to acquire woodland in the rear (most necessary in a
sugar-growing country), and it would be strange had the power
to make back concessions been parted with, in so plain a case, by
permitting sweeping surveys like that of Bringier.
We say above, claims for double concessions were not new.
O'Reilly's regulations of 1770 provide for narrow front grants on
rivers,-by forty arpens in depth; for embankments in front for the
exclusion of high water - for ditches to carry off the water; for roads
and bridges. The 17th article of Gavoso's regulations confirms
those of O'Reilly. These were made by governors-general, who
had the distribudon of lands from 1770 to October, 1798 ; then the
authority was restored to the General Intendant of Louisiana and
West Florida, Morales ; and in this officer the power remained up
to the change of governments, in 1804. All the regulations will
be found in 2 White's Recopilacion, 228, 244. In article 5d of
Morales's, especial duties are prescribed to the owners of front
grants, but nearly the same of O'Reilly's. The syndics were
bound to enforce the making of such embankments, ditches, roads,
and bridges, and the clearing in the three first years, in addition, a
certain quantity of land, and putting it into cultivation. The grants
were not to exceed six or eight arpens in front ; usually not so
much was granted; and the lands were to adjoin. Annually
the Mississippi overflows, and to prevent an inundation of the
country, heavy and expensive embankments are required, and they
must be continuous ; and are so, for hundreds of miles, on thebanks

_1ANUA-RY TERM, 1846.

181

3ourdan et al.v. Barrett et al.

of the river. The country would be worthless without them. It
had been reclaimed from the water by this means and the ditches,
by the French and Spanish front proprietors ; and on the keeping
up of the levees the value of the back lands depended ; the - great
expense, and constant watchings, during a part of the year, to
guard against inundation, and that of the whdle country, by a break
in the levee at any one place, involve public -considerations to
Louisiana of the highest magnitude ; and those whQse duty and interest it was to prevent it - the front owners - had extonded to
them, by the Spanish government, peculiar privileges, and which
the United States at an early day recognized:
A board of"commissioners was establishedb- the act of Mfarch
2, 1805, whose duty it was to examine'and'report" to Congress
on French -and S3pangsh claims to lands in that section of country ;
and by the supplementary act of April 21, 1806, secti6n 5, it was
made their further duty, among other things, "to inquire into the
nature and extent of claims which may arise' from a right to a
doubli or additional coflcession on the back of grants or concessions heretofore made;" "and to make a special report thereon to.
the Secretary of the Treasury, which report shall be by him laid
before Congress at their next session. Ad the lands which may
be embraced in such report shall not b& otherwise disposed of until
a decision of Congress shall have been had thereupon.?'
The commissioners were engaged for some six years in the Orleans Territory in pursuing thei investigations, and their reports
were laid before Congress by the Secretary of the Treasury early in
1812. But in the mean time it was well known what course had
been pursued by the board in regard to all descriptions of claims,
and amQng others of'bhakconcessios.- Iugtances in the report will
be found in 2 Am. State Papers, 297, 337. Of claim (p. 297).
No. 101, the board says,-" Benj. Babin claims a second depth
of forty arpents, lying immediately back of a front or first depth,
which we have already confirmed to him among the confirmed
claims."
" The claimant has no other foundation for his title to the second
depth than having occupied the front and first depth, and having
occasionally supplied himself with timber from this second depth."
"According to (he laws,-customs, and usages of the Spanish"
government, no front proprietor, by any act of his own, could acquire a right to lands further back than the ordinary depth of forty
arpents ; and. although the Spanish government has invariably refused to grant the second depth to any other than the fr'ont proprietor, yet notl-ing short of a grant- or warrant of survey from the
governor could confer a title or right to the land; wherefore we"
reject the claim." We give this as an instance of many similar
ones reported.
The statement atpplies to all front tracts, where only the first
VOL. IV.

P

182

SUPREME COURT.
Jourdan et al. v. Barrett e~t al.

forty arpents had been granted by France or Spain. Instead of
granting the back lands as a donation, the government of the
United States extended to the front owner a -preference of entry,
by the act of 1811 ; and if the entry was not made, the land was
reserved, as above stated. No question affecting the titles to lands
in Louisiana was more interesting to the old inhabitants, than the
one concerning the back lands ; and, although the former government had granted them in probably but few instances, yet this was
quite immaterial to front owners at that time, as they had the privilege of getting wood and timber from them, and the lands were
in no danger of being granted to another. That back lands at all
times meant those in the rear between the extended front lines in
the rear, to the distance of forty arpents (each line being a straight
one throughout), we suppose to -be undoubted, as a general rule,
although there may have been exceptions to it.
Many tracts had no doubt been surveyed for the purpose of having them acted on by boards of commissioners ; but the record does
not show that any of the front tracts in township No. 11 had been
surveyed by public authority ; which could only be done, after the
passing of the act of February 28, 1800, under the superintendence
of the surveyor-general, - and all other surveys were, by the third
section of that act, declared to be private surveys, on which no patent could issue for an incomplete claim, after it was confirmed by
Congress. And this law applied equally to confirmations by the
commissioners, under the act of March 3, 1807, whose adjudications were final, and authorized a patent to issue thereon.
When the first two acts of 1811 and 1820 were passed, it was
known that no township surveys had been made in much the greater
portion of the country to which the acts applied ; in reference to
this state of the country Congress legislated, and therefore it was
provided by"the fifth section of the act of 1811 , that the principal
deputy surveyor .of each district should be, and was, authorized,
" under the superintendence of the surveyor of the public lands
south of the State of Tennessee," to cause to be surveyed the
tracts claimed by virtue of that section, that is, preference rights ;
and in all cases where there were bends in rivers (as in the case
before us), on which the granted tract bordered, and there were adjacent claims of a similar nature, and each claimant could not obtain a tract of equal quantity with the original front tract, then it
should be the duty of the surveyor to divide the vacant land between the several claimants, in such manner as to him might appear most equitable.
Three tears were allowed from the date of the act for those entitled to give notice in writing, stating the situation and extent of
the tract each wished to purchase ; and for which he was to make
payment according to the then credit system. But if he failed in
either, the right to preemption should cease and become void ; and

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

183

Jourdan et al. v. Barrett et al.

the land might be purchased thereafter by any person, as other public lands. As no public surveys existed, from which it could be
ascertained at the register's offices what. the back lands of th9 numerous tracts were ; and as entries were contemplated in advance
of the public township surveys, some mode of ascertaining the
quantity and form each front owner was entitled to was indispenshble. And the mode adopted by Congress was to make the principal deputy-surveyor of the particular district the judge of form and
quantity ; subject, however, to the superintendence of his principal,
thesurveyor-in-chief of the lands south of Tennessee.
This officer (as well as the principal deputy) was, by the acts of
1812 (April 25th) and 1836 (July 4), subject to the direct control, and bound by the instructions, of the commissioner of the general land-office ;, and so was the commissioner subject to the control
of the President, through the Secretary of the Treasury, as will ble
seen by the opinion of the Attorney-general of July 4, 1836 (2 Publie Lands, Laws, Opinions, &c., 103). So that, in the end, it devolved on the President, by aid of the Secretary, as in other instances, to see the acts of Congriess above set forth duly executed ;
and this was done through the commissioner of the general landoffice.
On the 18th of March, 1833 (2 Land Laws, 573, No. 516),
the commissioner, by.an instruction to the registers and receivers of
Louisiana, gave a construction to the act of June 15th, 1832 :1. That where the back lands had been offered for sale and sold,
after the passing of the act, still the front owner was to be permitted to enter them. 2. Where the back tracts had not been surveyed and connected with the adjoining public lands, and the quantity could not be ascertained at the time of payment, the party claim-.
ing should be required to pay for the maximum quantity to which he
could be entitled under the law ; and any excess ofpayment found
on actual survey should thereafter be refunded to the party, on instructions to that effect, to be-given from the general land-office.
The form of the receiver's receipt for the payment is there given ; showing the land had not yet been surveyed. And the register was instructed not to transmit the certificate of purchase until
the survey was completed, whereby the quantity would be ascertained. The commissioner also informed the registers and receivers that the surveyor-'general hd been directed to advise them as
to the course to be pursued by the claimants in cases where the
back tracts remained to be surveyed.
In executing the act of 1832, the foregoing instructions were of
course pursued, and entries received on such notices of claim
as parties saw proper to file, subject to the risk of being curtailed
by the proper public surveys, approved by the surveyor-general.
And Mr. Harper proves that on these terms notices of claim were
received, under the act of 1820, in 1822, when Bringier's claim was

184

SUPREME COURT.
Jourdan et al. v. Barrett et al.

entered. Harper was then the register at New Orleans. It is
manifest that in no, other way could the acts of 1820 or 1832 be
executed, than by general surveys of the back lands, whereby the
portion of each claimant was marked out. Nor could any survey in
township No. 11 be recognized by the register after the appointment
of the surveyor-general of Louisiana, and the extinguishment of the
offices of the principal deputies (May 1st, 1831), other than such
as were approved by the surveyor-general. None -was made oi"
Bringier's claim, so far as we are informed, before that time,
which received the sanction of any department of the general landoffice, and on which a patent certificate and patent could issue. Of
Rightor's survey, we have already spoken. Wilson's wds a mere
private act, at the instance of Bringier, and not recorded anywhere. The instruction of July 25th, 1838 (2 Land Laws, No.
1009), applies to Bringier's case as well as others; the register
and receiver are there directed to issue the certificate of purchase
in cases where an over-payment has been made for back lands, by
describing each 'tract by section, township, range, and'area; as
returned by the surveyor-general," - assuming the plan approved by
him to have settled the equities of parties claiming under the preemption laws, as to extent and boundary. And our opinion is,
that the survey of township No. 11, approved by H. S. Williams,
surveyor-general of Louisiana, on the 5th of August, 1834, was
made in execution of the acts of Congress, and governs the rights
of the parties before this court ; that to the land there designated as
"back land"' of the Whitehall tract, Bringier's equity attached, by
his notice of claim and the payment of his money, in 1822, and to
none other. And that,. by the same survey, the equities of Landry and Jourdan, acquired by their entries, are established as the
better title to the extent of "back land" attached to their respective tracts by the survey. And to that extent they are respectively entitled to recover, as against the claim of the defendant, set
forth in the answers.
Some stress, in the argument, was laid on the fact, that possession had been held of the land in dispute, under Bringier's claim,
for more than ten years before the suits of Landry and Jourdan
were brought, and therefore the petitioners were barred by prescription and limitation in Louisiana. Prescription of ten years'
possession is relied on in defence by a direct plea, and made up
part of the defence.
To this ground of defence, it is a sufficient answer to say, that
Jourdan first acquired his interest in 1834, and Landry his, in
1836 ; up to that time the lands they claim belonged to thd United
States, as part of the public domain, and on which the defendant,
Barrett, and those under whom he claims, were trespassers ; and
that no trespass of the kind can give title to the trespasser, as
against the United States, or bar the right of recovery ; nor had

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

185

Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

the operation of time any effect as against Landry and Jourdan,
unil they respectively purchased.
By the Constitution, Congress is given " power to dispose of
and make all needful rules and iegulations respecting the territory
or other property of the United States " ; for the disposal of the
public lands, therefore, in the new States, where such lands lie,
Congress may provide by law ; and having the constitutional power
to pass the law, it is supreme ; so Congress may prohibit and punish trespassers on the public lands. Having the power of disposal
and of protection, Congress alone can deal with the title, and no
State law, whether of limitations or otherwise, can defeat such
title.
For the foregoing reasons, we order the judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana to be reversed, and that the cause be
remanded, &c.

JEREIIAH CARPENTER, APPELI ANT, V. THE PnoviDENcE WASINGToN
INSURANCE COMPANY.

A policy of insurance contained a stipulation, that if the insured then had, or

thereafter should have, any other insurance upon the same property, notice
thereof should be given to the company, and the same iidorsed upon the
policy, or otherwise acknowledged by the company in writing, in default of
which the policy should cease.
A bill was filed in equity by the insured, alleging that notice was given to the insurance company, and praying that the company might be compelled to indorse
the notice upon thepolicy, or otherwise acknowledge the same in writing.
When the answer of the company, sworn to by the then president, denies the reception of the notice, to the best of his knowledge and belief, the question becomes one of fact and of law; of fact, whether the evidence offered by the
complainant is sufficient to sustain the allegation; and of law, whether, if so,
this court can compel the company to acknowledge it.
The answer being responsive to the bill, and denying the allegation, under oath,
the general rule is, that the allegation must be proved, not'only by the testimony
of one witness, but hy some additional evidence.
Several qualifications and limitations of this rule examined.
The circumstances of this case are such that the general rule applies.
Two witnesses are produced, by the complainant to prove the notice, but neither
of them swears positively to it, and the circumstances of the case do not
strengthen their testimony.
The ruls by which parties are sometimes allowed to introduce parol evidence with
reference to a written contract do not apply to this case, where the parol proof
is offered by the complainant, seeking to show a fact which, if true, would etablieh a breach of duty in the defenddnts, happening.after the original contract was
made.
The question of lhv which would arise if the notice were sufficiently proved by
the complainant need not be decided in this case.

THIs case was brought up by appeal from-the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Rhode Island, sitting -as a
vOL. Iv.

24

P*

