4

SUPREME COURT.
Brown v. Clarke.

Jixas BRQwN, PLAINTIFF IN iRoR, v, Jowc CLZA

, DzFZtDANT.

By the law of.Mifssisaippi, a judgment is a lien upon pemonal as well as real estate
'from the time-of its rendition.
Where there has been a judgment, an execution levied upon ronal property,
'and a fbrthcoming bond; the property levied upon is releasel by the bond, and
the lien of the judgment destroyed.
i*; therefore, dier this, another judgment be entered against the original defendant,
this second judgment is a lien upon the property which has been released by
the bond.
The lien thus acquired by the' second junment is not destroyed by subsequently
quashing the forthcoming bond. The effect of such quashing is not to revive the
firstjudgment, and thus restore the lien which was superseded by the execution
of the bond.
If the forthcoming bond had been shown to have been void ab initio, the result
would be different.
In cases of conflicting executions issued out of the federal and state courts, a priority is given to that under which there i3an actual aeizure of the property first.
The mode in which bills of exceptions ought to be taken, as explamed in Walton
v. The United States (9 Wheat. 651), and in 4 Peters, 102, iill be strictly adhered to by this court.

THIs was a writ of error to the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Mississi]pi, to bring up for
review certain instructions delivered to the jury in an action of
trover, brought by the. defendant in error against the plaintiff in
error, and in which the plaintiff below obtained the verdict.
The case was this. Brown, the defendant below, obtained a
judgment of $ 8,640"37, by confession, against one Haywood
Cozart, in the Circuit Court of Lafayette County, Mississigpi,
which was docketed on the 18th of May, 1840. Upon wich
execution was issued on the 6th, and delivered to the sheriff on
the 20th of June following, an& a levy made the same day on several slaves, the property of the defendant on the execution. A
forthcoming bond was given by the defendant, with H. M. Cozart
as surety, and which was approved of by Brown, the plainliff.
This bond is in the penalty of double the amount of the judgment, ;nade payable to the plaintiff in the execution, and conditioned well and truly to deliver the property levied on to the sheriff on
the 17"th of August (then) next, the day of sale, at a certain place,
to be sold to satisfy the judgment, unless the same should be previously paid.
Clarke, the defendant in error, recovered a judgment of
$ 2,117"31 against the same Haywood Cozart, in the District
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi, at the June term of said court, 1840 ; upon which an execution was. issued to the marshal of the district, and a levy made,,
on the 9th of November following, upon six of the slaves in the
possession of Cozart, and which had been before levied on under
Brown's execution. They were -sold by the marshal on the 7th
December- thereafter, and purchased in by Clarke, the plaintiff,
the highest bidder.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

5

Brown -a. Clarke.

The sheriff returned upon the execution in the case of Brown
v. Cozart, and upon the forthcoming bond, that the property was
not delivered in pursuance of the condition, nor the money paid ;
and that it wa therefore forfeited. And Brown, at the November
term of the Circuit Court of Lafayette County, at which the execution was returnable, made a motion to the court to quash the bond,
which was granted accordingly ; the ground of the motion is not
stated. And on the same day, the 23d of November, 1840, he
sued out an alia fieri fac~ias on the original judgment, returnable
at the next term of said court.
To this execution, the sheriff returned that he had levied upon
six slaves, naming them, in the hands of the Marshal of the Nbrthem District of Mississippi, and also on other property which it
is not material to notice. And further, that after the sale of the
slaves by the marshal, he was indemnified by Brown, and required
to make a levy-upon them on the 7th of December, 1840, and
that, on the 4th of January following, he sold them, by virtue of
the execution, to Brown, the highest bidder.
It further appeared, that, at the time the marshal levied on the
slaves, the 9th of November, 1840, Cozart had some fifteen or
eighteen other slaves in his possession ; that the marshal took
those levied on into his custody, and on the sale iinder the execution delivered them to Clarke, the purchaser ; and that they were
afterwards taken out of his possession by the sherif, under his
execution, by the directipn of Brown ;'that Hiram M. Cozart,
the surety in the forthcoming bond, was a brother of Haywood
Cozart, was a man of but little property, and lived with his brother, some six miles distant from I-own ; and that after the levy by
the marshal, and before the sale, the two Cozarts left the State of
fississippi for Texas, and carried away with them the fifteen or
eighteen
not levied
on by
offcer.for the plaintiff,
When slaves
the testimony
closed,
thethis
counsel
Clarke,

requested
court
to give
the following
instructions
to the
jury,
namely :-- the
That
if they
believed
the marshal
made lawful
levy
on
the property in dispute, the sale under his execution was valid,
and
vested
in the purchaser a good title against other executions,
whether
founded
on

judgments of the state or federal courts; and
that, if they believed that the sheriff levied his execution on the
slaves and took a forthcoming bond, which was aterwards"forfied, the same was a satisfaction of the original judgment, and
the subsequent quashing of the same did not affect the rights of
n
the plaintiff, acquired by virtue ofauthe
marshal's
Ac levy after such
forfeiture of the bond ; and also, if they believed that the sheriff,
after his levy, took a forthcoming bond, which was afterwards forfeited, and that the slaves therein named remained in the possession
of the defendant Cozart, the levy of the marshal, made after
the forfeiture
of said bond, and sale in pursuance

thereof, were

6

SUPREME COURT.
Brown v. Clarke.

valid, notwithstanding the bond was quashed before the sale, but
after the levy. And, further, if the jury believed that the defendant, Brown, agreed to approve of the surety on the foithcoming bond, and thereby permitted the slaves to remain in the
possession of the said Cozart, the. subsequent quashing of the
bond upon his own motion did not place him in any better situation ihan if lie had not issued an execution on the judgment. And,
also, if they believed the approval of the bond 'by Brown was
with a view to allow Cozart to remain in possession of said slaves,
and to keep off and delay othek creditors, then they should find
for the plaintiff; and, also, if they believed the. conduct of Brown
was fraudulent in obtaining proceedings on his judgment, then they
should find for the plaintiff. - All which instructions were objected to by the defendant's counsel ; ,but the objection was overruled by the court, and the instructions given.
The counsel for the defendant proposed the following instruc-.
tions, namely :- That, if the jury believed, from the evidence,
the defendant, Brown, obtained a prior judgment in the Circuit
Court of Lafayette County to the judgment obtained by the plaintiff, Clarke, in the District Court of the United States, Brown
thereby obtained a prior lien upon Cozart's property for the satisfaction of his judgment, and that said lien could only be defeated
and postponed by some act of Brown fraudulent in law ; that the
taking of the forthcoming bond by the sheriff, and the quashing of
the same, were not acts deemed fraudulent in law ; that the levy
and sale of the slaves of Cozart by the marshal, by virtue of an
execution on a junior judgment, was subject to the lien of the
prior judgment, and communicated no title to the purchaser paramount to the lien of the prior judgment.; that the forfeiture of a
forthcoming bond, which is quashed for want of conformity to the
statute, is not such an one as has the force and effect of a judgment,
because not in conformity to the statute. - Which -instructions
were objected to by the counsel for the plaintiff, and were refused by the court.
The record adds, the jury returned a veidict for the plaintiffT,
and the defendant moved the court to set it aside and grant a
new trial, which" motionwas overruled. To all which the defendant excepts, and tenders this his bill of exceptions, which le
prays may be signed and sealed by the court.
The case was argued by .Mr.
Chalmers and Mr.Johnson, for
the plaintiff in error, and Mr.Mason and ,Mr.
.Milton Brown)
for the defendant. Of these argunents, the reporter has no notes
except of Mr. Brown's.

MWr. Brown.
John Clarke, the defendant in error, brought his action of trover

JANUARY TERM, .1846.

7

Brown v. Clarke.

against James Brown, the plaintiff, in error, for five slaves, in the
District Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Mississippi. At the December term, 1841, of said court, a verdict was rendered for $ 3,225, the value of the slaves, and judgment entered accordingly for the amount of the verdict and costs.
No exception appears of record to have been taken or filed to
the opinion of the court during the progress of the trial. .6fter
the verdict and judgment, Brown, by his counsel, moved the court
to set aside the verdict, and grant a new trial. The court, on argument, overruled the motion. The entry of this proceeding of
record is as follows :"This day came the parties, by their attorneys, and then came
on tb be heard defendant's motion for a new trial ; and, after argument, as well in support of as against said motion, it is considered by the court that the same be overruled .; to which decision
of the court overruling said motion, the defendant, by.attorney,
excepts, and tenders his bill of exceptions, which is signed and
sealed by the court, and ordered to be made part of the record in
this cause."
On this alleged error of the court, in refusing to grant a new
trial, this writ 'of error has been sued out. That the refusal to
grant a new trial is no ground for a writ of error is the well settled
doctrine of this court. 3 Peters's Dig. 106 ; Barr v. Gratz,'
4 Wheat. 213, 4 Cond. Rep. 430; United States v. Daniel,.
6 Wheat. 542, 5 Cond. Rep. 170.
What in this cause purports to be a bill of exceptions is founded
on and follows the overruling the motion -for a new trial, and was,
as appears on its face, drawn up and signed, n6t only after the
trial, but after the motion for a new trial was disposed of. It contains nothing that can be reviewed by this court.. It contains a
mere statement of facts given in evidence, and- the charge of the
court to the jury, not made matters of record, but only retained
in the memory of the judge, and recalled to regulate the discretion
of the court in granting or refusing a new trial. Inglee v. Coolidge, 2 Wheat. 363.
A bill of exceptions, to be the -foundation of a writ of error,
can only be for matters excepted to at the trial, and must appear
of record to have been actually'reduced to form, and signed pending the trial ; and if, as in this case, it appear to have been drawn
up and signed after verdict, it will be fatal. Walton v. The
United States, 9 Wheat. 651 ; 5 Cond. Rep. 717. And although it may in some cases be the practice for the court to rote
exceptions at the trial, and reduce them to form and sign them
atterwards, yet, in the language of the court in the case of Wplton v. The United States (aboie cited), "In all such cases the
bill of exceptions is signed nunc pro tunc; and it purports, on its
face, to be the same'as if actually reduced to form and signed

SUPREME COURT.
Brown v. Clarke.

pending the trial. And it would be a fatal error if it were to appear otherwise ; for the original authority under which bills of ex*ceptions are allowed has always been considered to be restricted
to matters of exception taken pending the trial, and ascertained
before verdict."
Even if exceptions had been taken at. the trial and signed, the
motion for a new trial would have been a waiver of them. Cunningham v. Bell, 5 Mason's C. C. Rep. 161. In that case, Mr.
Justice Story said :-" 1 The motion for a new trial cannot be
entertained, according to the practice of the court, unless the bill
of exceptions is waived. The party has his election, either to
proceed on the writ of error to the Supreme Court, in order to
have it determined there whether the points were correctly ruled
at the trial.; or, waiving that remedy, to apply here for a new
trial. But he cannot be permitted to proceed both ways."
It is believed that the authorities referred to show conclusively
that the writ of error in this case cannot be sustained. But should
the 6our rule otherwise, and consider the matters contained In the
bill of exceptions entitled to further examination, then the following statement of the case, in behalf of the defendant in error, is
presented.
Clarke, the defendant in error, brought a suit against one Haywood Cozart in the District Court of the United States for the
-Northern District of Mississippi, and at the June term, 1840, obtained a judgment. Cozart, inMay, 1840, during the pendency
of Clarke's suit, confessed a judgment for a large amount in the
Circuit Court of Mississippi for Lafayette County, in favor of
'JamesBrown, the plaintiff in error. l xecutions, in due time, issued on both these judgments, and went into the hands of the
proper officer of each court. Brown's execution was levied by
the sheriff on twenty-two slaves, and the sheriff took a forthcoming or delivery bond, with surety, from Cozart. The surety was
approved by Brown himself. The bond required the delivery of
the slaves in August, 1840. They were not deliyered, and the
bond, under the statutes of Mississippi, was returned forfeited,
having in itself the force of a judgment, and entirely extinguishing
lie original judgment.
On the 9th of November, 1840, after this forfeiture of the delivery bond, the marshal levied Clarke's. execution on five of the
slaves previously levied on by the sheriff, and sold them, - Clarke
becoming the purchaser. On the 23d of November, 18 0,
Brown, by his own motion, procured the delivery bond from Cozart, taken on his own execution, and by his own express consent,
to be quashed, with a view of reviving the lien of his original judgment, and overreaching that under which the sale of the five
slaves to'Clarke had been made. Brown then issued an alias fieri•
facias on his original judgment, and seized upon the five slaves

JANUARY TERM. 1846.

9"

Brown v. Clarke.

purchased by and in the possession of Clarke, and had them again
sold, he himself becoming the purchaser. Clarke brought his action of trover against Brown for the slaves taken out '6f his ppssession, and ,recovered judgment ; to reverse which, this writ of
error is sued out.
Was Clarke's title 'to the slaves in question complete- byvirtue
of the sale to him by the marshal ? That the sale -was ii6'all
things regular is- not denied ; but it is contended that Brown's
judgment against Cozart, in May, 1840, gave him a prior lien on
the property of Cozart; which overreached Clarke's judgment in
June, 1840.
Li Mississippi, by the -act of 1824, a lien on all the property
of -the defendant -commences with. the date of the judpaent.
Brown, therefore (aside from the circumstances under which his
judgment was obtained), had a lien commencing with his judgment of May, 1840. But this priority was lost, both by opgration
of law and his own act. An execution issued, 'a levy vias made,
and a forthcoming or delivery bond taken, which, in August, 1840,
was forfeited. The bond, after forfeiture, at once, and without
further action on it, has the force and effect of a judgment. The
statute enacts, '1 that any bond which shall. be forfeited shall
have the'force and effect of a judgment, and execution may issue
thereon against all the obligors thereon." How. & Hul. Dig. 653.
By the uniform decisions of the Court of Appeals of Mississippi, under this statute, the forfeiture of a forthcoming bond creates a new judgment, in which the original judgment is merged
and extinguished. In an early case on the subject, this language
is employed by the court - I, The forthcoming bond, after forfeiture, becomes, by operation of law, a judgment'; and as the
law will not permit two judgments to exist at the same time against
the same person for the same debt, this judgment, by operation of
law, necessarily extinguishes the former." -Clark v. Anderson,
2 How. Rep. 853. In a very recent case it is said, " The
original judgment, after the forfeiture of the bond, is no longer in
existence." Bums v. Stanton, .2 Sine. & Mar. 461. The lien
of the first judgment ceases, and a new and more comprehensive
lien arise's upon this. statutory judgment, embracing the propert±
of both principal and sureties in the forthcoming bond. And no
action of the court on the forfeited bond is necessary ; as soon as
the bond is forfeited, the old judgment is extinguished, and a new
lien attaches. Lancashire v. Minor, 4 How. Rep. 351 ; Lusk
v. Ramsey, 3 Mun. 434.
Brown's original judgment, therefore, was extinguished, and his
lien rested on his statutory judgment of August, 1840. This the
law designed to be .ample, by requiring ample security on thebond. If it was in fact not ample, it was because of ldrowns
own act in directing the sheriff to take security, which he, without
VOL. Tv.
2

10

SUPREME
Brown

COURT.

v. Clarke.

such directions, would not have taken, and which Brown knew
was not responsible.
In this posture of things, Clarke's lien, under his judgment of
June, 1840, took precedence, and was entitled to prior satisfaction. While thus clearly entitled to precedence and priority,
Clarke's execution was levied and the property sold, which Clarke
purchased. Standing on this state of the case, it would be scarcelyposssible to doubt Clarke's complete title.
But now comes a new point in the cause. Cozart, and his
brother, who was irresponsible, but who had been taken as security in the bond by Brown's directions, gathered what property
they could, and both put out to Texas. Clarke, by his diligence, had saved the five slaves in question. It became important, therefore, for Brown to get clear of his new judgment, and
get back to his 'old one. Accordingly, he moved the court to
quash the delivery bond, which was done; on what ground does
not appear. And it is believed no good ground existed ; and that,
if this new state of things had not arisen, no such motion would
have been made.
And now comes the question, what was the effect of quashing
this bond. Its effect, as between the parties themselves, was to restore Brown to all his rights under his original judgment of May,
1840, without regard to his subsequent statutory judgment. But
not so when the rights of thirdpersons intervened. Clarke was no
party to that proceeding, nor was he, or could he be, heard on the
motion to quash the bond. Had he been a party, and been heard on
the question;.it is believed he could have successfully resisted the
rnotion. His rights, therefore, cannot be affected by the proceeding. So far as his rights are concerned, they stand as though such
motion had never been made or decided.
If Clarke's rights are to be affected, it can only be upon the
doctrine of relation ; that the new judgment having been quashed,
the old lien by relation was revived, to operate from the rendition
of the first judgment.. But it is a cardinal principle of the doctrine of relation, that it can never be extended to the prejudice of
the rights of third persons. It leaves them as it finds them.
Heath v. Ross, 12 Johns. 140 ; Jackson v. Bard, 4 Johns. 280.
*Then, although this proceeding restored Brown to his rights against
Cozart, it cannot operate to divest the intermediate rights of
Clarke, acquired without wrong on his part. This view does not,
in the slightest degree, conflict with the cases of Andrews v. Doe,
ex dem. Wilkes, 6 How. 554, and Commercial Bank of Manchester v. Coroner of Yazoo County, 6 How. 530. These cases
relate to valid subsisting liens, not altereil or affected by any circumstances subsequent to the rendition of the judgment.
Brown's priority of lien was not only lost by the extinguishment
of his original judgment by the forfeiture of the forthcoming bond,

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

11

Brown v. Clarke.

but it was also lost by his own act. The lien of a judgment is a
mere security, conferring no jus in rem, and which may be voluntarily abandoned, either. expressly or by implication; and when
so abandoned, the property becomes freed from its influence, and
subject to all the general incidents of other property.
The sheriff, it would seem, on making the levy, was noi willing
to let Cozart retain the property upon the faith of the security
offered. It was his duty, therefore, to take the property into
possession until sufficient securitywas offered. Brown, however,
stepped forward, approved and accepted the surety, which he
knew to be insufficient, relying on Cotart's good faith rather than on
the forthcoming bond, and discharged the sheriff from the responsibility of taking insufficient security. By this act he placed it in
the power of Cozart to do what he afterwards did do, -run his
propuety out of the country, leaving his creditors to suffer.
Brown, by voluntarily waiving his right to a good and sufficient
surety to the forthcoming bond, and leaving the property in pos-"
session of Coiart, and by voluntarily suspending his right to proceed on his judgment sand execution, lost the priority of lien
which the law gave him; and which, being once gone by his own
voluntary act, cannot be regained. The principle here contended
for is analogous to that under which a surety may be discharged
under an ordinary contract. If the creditor, without the consent
of the surety, puts it out of his power to proceed for even a single day against the principal debtor, the surety is discharged. So,
by parity of reasoning, if a judgment creditor suspend his right to
enforce his lien but for a day by his voluntary act, his priority
over other judgment creditors is gone.
The jury was also well authorized to find in favor of Clarke, on
account of the course pursued by Brown in regard to his execution. It is to be observed that the judgment was obtained by confessign, just before the setting of the court which rendered Clarke's
judgment. Cozart was the neighbour, of Brown; his brother,
the surety in the delivery bond, lived with him; he was poor,
and wholly insufficient as surety for such an amount. With a
knowledge of all this, Brown accepted him as surety in the bond,
indorsed his approval upon it, thereby discharging the sheriff from
responsibility for .taking insufficient security, and permitted the
negroes to remain in custody of Cozart. They so remained until.
the marshal levied the execution of Clarke, when both Cozarts
absconded, and carried off the remaining slaves,, enough, or nearly
enough, to have satisfed Brown's execution. From these facts
and circumstances, the jury were well warranted in concluding
that the judgment was confessed, with the understanding that
Cozart was to remain in possession of his slaves, on giving his
brother as surety ; that this was intended to keep off other creditors ; and that, finding it did not have the desired efflect, he

12

SUPREME COURT.
Brown v. C-1-rke_

s
conduct
diulite-d tb
tas hinder
other crdiditor-,-and was fraudulent and void as to Clarke, the present defendant in error.
In conclusion, the.defendant in error, by his counsel, contend,
that upon the whole case it appears that substantial justice hta
been attained, and that the judgment should be affirmed.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
By the law of the State of Mississippi, a judgment is a lien upon the personal as well as real property of the defendant, from the
time of its rendition (Smith et al. v. Everly et al., 4 How. 178 ;
Commercial Bank of Manchester v. Coroner of Yazoo County, 6
How. 350); and if the first judgment obtained by Brown against
Cozart could be upheld against the objections taken to it, there is
no doubt, according to the Ia-f-Misrsissippi, that the instructions
given by the Court belowf-c'IIejU-ry. were erroneous.- Thatjudgment was docketed on the 18th of May, 1840, whereas Clarke's
was not recovered till the 16th of June following.
It is insisted, however, that the seizure of the property of the
defendant by the sheriff, under the, first judgment, and discharge
of it .on the execution and delivery of the forthcoming bond, operated to extinguish the lien, and let in that of the junior judgment
of Clarke, so as to give it the preference. This raises the principal question discussed in the case.
By the act of 1827 (Laws of Miss., p. 123, § 2), the sheriff or
other officer ii required, upon the levy of an execution upon personal property, to take a bond, if tendered, with sufficient secuity, from the debtor, payable to the creditors, recising the service of
such execution, and the amount due thereon, in -a penalty of
double the amount of such execution,. with condition to have the
property levied on forthcoming at the day of sale; and if the owners of such property or the defendant in the execution shall fail to
deliver the -same according to the condition of the bond, such
sheriff or other officer shall return the bond so forfeited, with the
execution, to the court from which the same issued, on the return
day thereof; and every bond so forfeited shall have the foree and
effect of a judgment, and execution shall issue against all the obligors thereon, &c.
Under this statute, it appears to have been uniformly held in the
courts of Mississippi, that the bond thus given to the creditor on
the seizure of the goods was intended as a substituted security for
the lien acquired by the judgment and seizure ; and consequently,
on its execution and delivery, the goods, by operation of law, are
released from all charge, and left in the possession of the debtors
as free and unencumbered as before it attached ; and if the property is not delivered, in pursuance of the condition, the remedy is
then upon the bond, which on the breach or forfeiture becomes, by

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

13

Brown v. Clarke.

operation of the statute, a statutory judgment against the defendant and sureties from that time, followed by a new lien upon the
real and personal estate of all the obligors. The original judgment
is merged and satisfied by the new and more comprehensive statutory judgment upon the bond, and the remedy of the creditors
limited to the enforcement of this judgment.
This is, in substance, the view of the statute as expounded by
the courts of Mississippi in several cases, and particularly in the case
of the Bank of the United States v. Patton et al. (5 How. 200) in
the Court of Appeals, which was argued twice, and very fully considered by the court. (Stewart v. Fuqua, Walk. R. .175 ; Witherspoon v. Spring, 3 How. 60; Archibald et al. v. Anderson,
2 How. 852 ; King v. Terry, 6 How. 513 ; Minor v. Lancashire,
4 How. 347.) In the case of the Bank of the United States v.
Patton, the court, speakipgofwhatwould have been the effect of the
forthcoming bond, if the statute had not annexed to it the force of
a judgment, say,-" As it releases the levy, and restores the property to the debtor, it is tantamount to a satisfaction of the execution, and the creditor would be left to pursue his remedy upon the
bond."
The court then liken it to the replevin bond in Virginia, which
had been held to be a substitute for the oliginal judgment, and operated as a satisfaction ; and add, - 41 It was no doubt in view of
this principle that the framners of our statute saw proper to relieve
the creditors from thedelay and expense of a second suit upon the
bond, by giving to i after forfeiture the force of a judgment
against all the obligors -therein, with a consequent right to have
execution on the same; and also to provide, that no security
should be taken on the execution which is sued out upon the new
judgment."
It will be seen, therefore, that the forthcoming bond and statutory judgment consequent upon the forfeiture, in its operation and
effect, reversed the original position of these parties in respect to
the priority of lien under their respective judgments, and gave to
Clarke, the plaintiff below, the preference, his judgment having
been docketed the 16th of June, and the new judgment of Brown
not taking effect till the 17th of August, the date of the forfeiture
of the bond. (Minor v. Lancashire.)
If the case stood upon this footing, it is .very plain that Clarke,
the purchaser under the sale of the marshal, acquired the better
title to the property in question, and that the instructions were in
conformity to the law of the case.
It is contended, however, that the quashing of the forthcoming
bond, and consequently the new statutory judgment, operated to
revive the original one, and to restore the priority of lien, the same
as it stood before any of the proceedings on that Judgment had intervened.
VOL. iv.

B

14

SUPREME, COURT.
Brown v, Cla.rke.

We do not assent to this view of the effect of the order
vacating the new judgment, so far, at least, as respects the lens
or rights of third parties which have legally attached in the mean
time to the goods of the defendant, discharged from the original
judgment by the giving of the forthcoming bond. After that lien
was suspended or discharged, the original judgment being, in contemplation of law, satisfied by the new and substituted security,
the debtor was at liberty to deal with the property as his own, and
it remained in his possession, subject to any charge or lien impressed upon it either by the act of the party, or by operation of
law, the same, after the forthcoming bond, as before the entry of
the original judgment. Possibly as between the parties the judgment revived, but it would be against principle, and work manifest
injustice, to give to it this retrospective operation, so as to extinguish the intermediately acquired legal rights of third persons.
We deny to it ibis effect.
Jt would be otherwise, if the forthcoming bond had been shown
to' be void, as it might then be treated as a nullity, and as affording nQ foundation for the statutory judgment consequent upon the
forfeiture. Under such circumstances, the lien of the original judgment would remain unaffected, and might be enforced by execution ; it wouldl then, of course, continue uninterrupted by the lien
of any subsequent judgment entered up against the defendant.
This view of the statute was taken by the court of Mississippi,
in Carleton et al. v. Osgood et al. (6 How. 285).
But no such ground is presented in the record before us ; nor
did it exist in point of fact in the case. On the contrary, the
forthcoming bond was in conformity to the statute, and the only
reason for the action of the court in quashing the proceedings, for
aught that appears or has been shown, was either that the tribunal
conceded to the plaintiff the right to vacate his own judgment at
his election, and thus voluntarily give up all the rights acquired
under it, or that the surety was irresponsible, which latter ground
would probably have been unavailing had the fact appeared before
the court, that Brown himself, withlfull knowledge of all the circumstances, approved of the sufficiency of the security.
At all events, it is enough to sustain the ground upon which" we
have placed the priority of lien upon the property, that, for aught
appearing in the case, the new judgment of Brown upon the forthcoming bond was regular, and existed in fidl*force and effect until set
aside and vacated on his own motion. For, if so, it is clear, upon
the statute and decisions of the courts of Mississippi, that the lien
of his original judgment against Cozart became thereby lost and
postponed, so as to let in thai .of the junior judgment of Clarke,
and consequently the sale of the marshal, by virtue of the execution under it, vested, in the purchaser the better title.
We have thus far examined this case upon the law of Missis-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

15

Brown v. Clarke.

sippi, where the cause of action arose, as we understand it to
have been expounded and applied by the courts of that State.
Another view may be taken, leaving out of consideration the
priority of lien as acquired under the judgments of the respective
parties, and looking solelyto priority as acquired by virtue of an
actual seizure of the property under execution, regarding that as
the test in cases where the conflicting executions issued out of the
federal and state courts, and to the executive officers of the diffdrent jurisdictions. (Hagan v. Lucas, 10 Peters, 400.) In this

aspect, of the case, the legal result is equally decisive in favor of
the right of, the plaintiff below.

If we have not misapprehended the rule of law prevailing in

Mississippi in the view already taken, the right to the property ac-

quired under the seizure of the first execution of Brown became
extinguished
by the operation
effect of the forthcoming bond.
No
title, therefore,
be set and
up by virtue of that seizure.
The case, then, can
as it respects the
right depending upon priority of actual seizure and
the marshal
property,
stead of priority of judgment,legal
standscustody
thus - of The
inlevied
upon the slaves on the 9th of November; the sheriff not till the
7th of December following. The former, the refore, under the
law giving effect to the first seizure, was entitled to he property,
and of course the purchaser at his call acquired the better title.
In'every view we have been able to take of the case, we ire
satisfied the judgment of the District Court was right, and should
be aflirmed.
Thetocourt
have had some
exceptions
taken
the instructions
in thisdifficulty
case, n inthenoticing
form in the
which
they are
presented upon the record. It is matter of doubt whether they
point to the instructions given and refused to the jury, or the refusal of the court below to grant a new trial. If to the latter, no
question is presented upon which error would lie, according to the
repeated decisions of this court. (4 Wheat. 213; 6 Wheat. 542.)
The counsel were probably misled, in making up the record, y
the
in Mississippi,
error
lie to the appellate
courtpractice
fora refusal
to grant a where
new trial
by will
statute.
(Laws

of Miss.,
p.
493,
§
53.)
But
the
rule
is
otherwise
in
the
courts.
That Sate has also a statute providing for the casefederal
of exceptions
to be taken in the progress of the trial in the usual form (p. 620,
§ 40) tiich is the form that should have been observed in this
case. The practice is particularly stated ad expla din.Walton
r. The United States (9 Wheat. 651), and in several later cases
(4 Peters, 102).
The practice is well settled and exceedingly plain and simple,
and will be strictly adhered to by the court.

