00

SUJP1LM

COURT.

Downes v. Scott.

London, in so far as they seek to recover the assets of Matthias
Aspden's estate in the course of administration by the Orphan's
Court of Philadelphia county. Further than this, we do not pretend to determine on the effect of the evidence, as we are not
aware that any controversy now exists in the Circuit Court in regard to any otler assets.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern Dis.nct of Pennsylvania, and on the point and question on which the
judges of the &aid Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and
which was certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the
act of. Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, It' is the opinion of this
court, that the evidence introduced " touching the plea in bar"1 is
no estoppel to Xhe representatives of John Aspden of London, in
so far as they seek to recover the assets of Matthias Aspden's
esate in -the course of administration by the Orphan's Court of
Philadelphia county ; whereupon it is now here ordered and decreed by this court, that it be certified to the said Circuit Court
accordingly.
Dissen
," Mr. Chief Justice TANEY and Mr.
Justice

MCLEAN.

RiCmARD

CHARLEs Dowims,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.

WILLIAM

S.

'ScoTT, DFxENDANT.
The second section of the act of the 29th of May, 1830, providing, that "if two or
more persons be settled Upon the same quarter-section, the same may be divided
between the two first actual settlers, if by a north and south, or east and west,
'line the settlement or improvement" of each can. be included in a half-quartersection;" refien only to tracts of land containing one hundred and sixty acres, and
does not 9perate upon one containing only one hundred and thirty-three acres.
Thereforewhere tenants in common of a tract of one hundred and thirty-three
acres applied to a State court for a partition under the above act, the judgment
of that court cannot be revipwed by this court, when brought up by writ of error
pnder the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act, because the right asserted
does nbt arise under an act of Congress.
-The writ 'f error must be dismissed.

-Tins.case

was brought up from the Ninth Judicial District
Coprt of the State of Louisiana, by a writ of error issued under
the twenty-fifth'section of the judiciary act.
.Mr. Crittenden, for the defendant in error, moved to dismiss
the wit for the following reasons. Because, -

JANUARY TERM, 1846.
Downes I. Scoft

501

1st. Said writ of error'is directed to the "Judge of the Ninth
J.idicial District-Coitt of the State of Louisiana," when in truth
no writ of error lies from this to that court.
2,d. Said writ'is for-alleged error in a judgment of the said Distrct Court of Louisiana, when'in truth this court hs no jurisdictioarto judge of or correct said error if it exists, and'&io power t6
reverse said judgment upon writ of error.
3d. That the record filed 'in this case, or what purports to be
such, is not duly certified, or legally authenticated and verified, the certificate of "John T. Mason, clerk of the Ninth District Court, Parish of Madison, La.,"' being no evidence of the
truth or verity of any record which this court has power to judge
of on writ of error.
4th. The subject-matter of said suit and judgment, and the parties thereto, were proper matters and subjects of the jurisdiction
of the courts.of the State of Louisiana, and there is nothing therein to give this court any dognizatce or right to revise-or reverie
said judgment, and the same is final and conclusive.
The motion was argued by Mr. Crittenden, for the defeidant in
error, and Mr. Mason (Attorney-General), for the plaintiff in
error.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This writ of error brings before us a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana, under the twenty-fifth section of the-judiciafy
act of 1789.
On the 15th of June, 1837, a patent was issued by the United
States to Elijah 'Evans and Levi Blakeley for one hundred and
thirty-three acres and eight hundredths of an acre, being lots numbered one and three of section six in township sixteen of range
thirteen east, in-the district of lands subject to sale at Ouachita,
Louisiana. The patentees having settled upon the above tract,
and each having made improvements thereon, claimed a preemptire right under the actof -the29th of May, 1830k The second
That if two or more persons be
section of that act 'provides, -"
settled upon the same quarter-section, the same may be divided between the two first aotual settlers, if by a north and south, or east
and west, line the sdttlement or improvement of each can be included in a half-quarter-section."1
The plaintiff applied, by petition, to the Ninth District Court
of Louisiana for a partition of the above tract, which, it seems,
was submitted to a jury, and on the trial of which "the judge
charged the jury that the act of Congress of May 29th, 1830, entitled "An act to grant pregmption rights to settlers on the public
lands,' was not applicable to the case before the court and jury ;
that ',he said act had no binding force as to the dividing or parti-

SUPREME COURT.
Downes

v.

Scott

tioning lands granted to settlers on the same quarter-section or fractional quarter-sbction after issuing a patent therefor, but that such
division and partition must be in conformity with the laws of Louisiana and the principles of equity and justice." To which charge
an exception was taken, and on which an appeal was prosecuted to
the Supreme Cohrt of the State; which affirmed the judgment of
the District ?ourt.
How the parties to this suit became interested in the tract of
land above patented does not-appear from the record. In the petition and answer, they are represented as owners of the premises,
and they are treated as such by the District and Supreme Courts
of Louisiana.
The second section of the preemption law above cited refers
to a quarter of a section, which contains one hundred and sixty
acres ; and as the tract of which partition is dema nded is less
than a quarter, it does not come within the law. Had application been made for a division of the tract to the proper
department of the government, before the emanation of the patent, it could not, as we suppose, have -been considered as coming
within the act, so as to authorize a partition and a patent to each of
the claimants. A patent having been issued to the claimants for
the iract jointly, as tenants in common, and they having conveyed
the land, which has become vested in the parties to this record, it
is now a question on what principle a division shall be made.
If the parties entitled to the pregmptive right might have applied for a partition under the act of Congress, but preferred
taking the patent as issued, it is difficult to perceive how the present
claimants could go behind the patent, in the assertion of a right
which was waived by those with whom it originated. The patent
vested in the patentees a joint interest as tenants in common, and
the same interest was conveyed through their grantees down to the
present owners. , It does not appehr, and the court cannot presume, that any greater or different right was conveyed than that
which is shown on the face of the patent.
In this view, we think the decision of the Louisiana court was
correct. It directed a partition on equitable principles, under the
loral law, reserving to each claimant his improvements. And it
appears from the facts in the case, that this~could not be done by
straight lines running north and south or east and west.
As the right asserted in this case by the plaintiff does not arise
under an act of Congress, this court has no jurisdiction by the
twenty-fifth section.
There seems ',- have been no allowance of the writ of error, and
it was. directed to the. District instead of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana. As this court can only revise the judgment of the
highest court inthe State which can exercise jurisdiction in the'
case, the writ of error should be directed to such court ; unless

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.-

503

Michoud et al. -v. Girod et al.

the record shait have been transmitted to an inferior tribunal. But,
independently-of these irregularities, we think that this court Jmve
no jurisdiction under the act of Congress, and on this ground this
suiris dismissed.

ANTOINE MIcHuoiD, JOSEPH MAIE GIROD, GABRIEL MONTAXAT, FEr
LIx GrEiA, JEAN B. DYAN, AiNi DENIS PRIEUR, CHARLES CLAIBORNE, MANDEVILLE MARIGNY, MADAx E. GmRu, WIDOW SABATIER, A. FOURNIER, E. MAZUREAv, E. RIVOLET, CLAUDE GunLIE,
THE MAYOR 6F THE CITY OF NEW ORLEANS, THE TREASURR or
THE CHARITY HOs PITAL, AND THE CATHOLtC ORPHNt'S AsYLUM,
APELLANTS, V. PERONNE BERNARDINE GIROD, WIDOW OF J. P. H.
PARGOUD, RESIDING AT ABERVILLE, IN THE DUCHY OF SAVOY, f.ROSALIE GIROD. WIDOW oF PHILIP-ADAm, BESIDING AT FAVEEGES, IN
THE DUCHY OF SAVOY, ACTING FOR THEMSELVES AND IN BEHALF OF
THEIR COHEIRS OF CLAUDE FRANgois GIROD, TO WIT, Louis- JoSEPH POIDEBARD, FRANoIS S. POIDEBARD, DENIS P. POIDEBAfiD,
WIDOW Or P.NicouD; JACQUELINE PO6EBARD, WIFE OF MARIE
RIVOLET; CLAUDINE POIDEBARD, WIDOW OF P. F. POIDEBARD; AND
M. R. POIDEBARD, WIFE or ANTHELDIE VALLIER, AND ALSO OF
FRAN~ois QUvTAND JEAN Wf.-F. QUETAND, MAIEJ QUETAND, WIFE
or J. M. AVIT ; F ANSOISE °QVETAND,- WIFE or J.A: ALLARD; MIARIE R..QU TAND, MARIE B. QUETAND ; ALSO OF J. F. GiiOt,
JEANNE
P. GIROD, WIE OF CLEMENT ODONINO, F. CLEMENTINE GIROD,
WIFE OF P. F. PEENOISE, AND JEAN MICHEL GIROD,. DEFEND-NTS.
A person cannot legally purchase on his own account that which his duty or trust
requires him to sell on account of another, nor purchase on account of another
that which he sells on his own account. He is not allowed to unite the two
opposite characters of buyer and seller.
A purchase, per interpositam personan,by a trustee or agent, of the particular
property of which he has the sale, or in which he represents another, whether:
he has an interest in it or not, carries fraud on the face of it.
This rule applies t, a purchase by executors, at open sale, although they were empowered by the '-ill to sell the estate of their testator for the benefit of heirs and
legatees, a part of which heirs and legatees they themselves were.
A purchase so made by executors will be set aside.
The decisions of the courts of several States, upon this subject, examined and rea
marked upon.
Relaxations of this rule of the civil law, which were made in some countries of
Europe, were not adopted by the Spanish law, and of course never reached Louisiana. Nor were those' relaxations carried so far as to allow a testamentary or
dative executor to buy the property which he was appointed to administer.
The maxims and qualifications of the civil law, upon this point, examined.
Although courts of equity generally adopt.the statutes of limitation, yet, in a case
of actual fraud, they will grant relief within the lifetime of either of the parties upon whom the fraud is proved, or within thirty years after it has been discovered or become known to the party whose rights are affected by it.
Within what time a constructive trust will be barred must depend upon the circumstances of the case, and these are always examinable.
Acquittances given to an executor, without a full knowledge of au the circumstances, where such information had been withheld by the executor, and menaces
and promises thrown out to prevent inquiry, are not binding.

