JANUARY TERM, 1846.

131

Garland v. Davis.

473) gives a different construction to the statute. The objection to
the record of protest there was, that it had not been made out and
sworn to at the time the protest was made; and such is the fact in
the case before us ; but the court held that the record might well
be made subsequently, and this for reasons, as we think, too obvious
to require explanation. Nor do we understand either of the remarks made by the High Court of Errors and Appeals of Mississippi in any degree impugned by our construction of the statute.
The judgment is therefore ordered to be affirmed, with costs.

HuGn A. GA

rvuw, PIL

ipr

IN ERROR,
PENDANT.

v. GEoRGE M. Divis, DE-

This was an action on the case, brought by Davis against Garland, the former
clerk of the House of Representatives. The declaration set out, by way of inducement, a contract between Davis and Franklin, the predecessor in office of
Garland, and then charged upon Garland a wrongful and injurious neglect and
refusal to furnish a copy of certain laws to Davis, as had been agreed by
Franklin.
The plea was "1non assumpsit," and the issue and verdict followed the plea.
This court can notice a material and incurable defect in the pleadings and verdict,
as the are represented in the record to have existed in the court below, although
such defect is not noticed in the bill of exceptions, nor suggested by the counsel
in argument here.
When a declaration sounds in tort and the plea is "non assumpsit," such a plea
would be bad, on demurrer. If not demurred to, ana the case goes to trial (the
isue and verdict following the plea), the defect is so material that it is not cured
by verdict, under the statute of jeoals.
Bad pleas, which are cured by verdict, are those which, although they would be
bad on demurrer because wrong in form, yet still contain enough of Rubitance
to put in issue all the material parts of the declaration.
The pyovision by Congress, in relation to amendments, which is found in the 32d
section pf the Judiciary Act of 1789, is similar to that of 32 Hen. 8, but certainly
not broader.
The issue was an immaterial issue.
The opinion of this court in Patterson r. The United States, 2 Wheaton, 221, reviewed and reaffirmed, namely, -" 1 Whether the jury find a general or a special
verdict, it is thei duty to decide the very point in issue, and although the court
in which it is tried may ive form to a general finding, so as to make it harmonize with the issue, yet if it appear to that court, or to the appellate court, that
the finding is different from the issue, or is confined only to a part of the matter
in issue, no judgment can be rendered on the verdict."
This principle applies equally to a plea varying from th6 substance of the declaration.
In this case, the verdict does not find any of the misfeasance charged upon the
defendant.
If the merits of the case were passed upon in the court below, it was illegally
done, because no evidence was competent except such as related to the promise
described in the declaration.
This court abstains from awarding a repleader, for the reasons stated in the opinion, but remands the case so that the pleadings may be amended.

THIS case was brought up, by writ if error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in
and for the county of Washington.

182

SUPREME COURT.
Garland v. Davis.

It was an action on the case, brought by Davis, the defendant-in
error, against Garland; the clerk of the House of Representatives.
The circumstanbes under which the suit was brought are thus
set forth in the plaintiff's declaration, which was filed on the 16th
of September, 1839.
"DISTRICT

OV COLUMBIA,

Washington county, to tvit "Hugh A. Garland, late of said county, was attached to answer
to George M. Davis, in a plea of trespass on the case, and so
forth. And whereupon the said Davis, by H. M. Morfit, his attorney, complains, that whereas the House of Repiesentatives of
the United States had, at the first session of the 25th Congresi,
which was before the committing of the grievances herein complained of, passed a resolution that the clerk of said House be,
among other things, directed to cans to be printed a ninth volume
of the laws of the United States, after the manner of the eighth
volume thereof; and being so directed, in pursuance of such resolution the then clerk of said House, to wit, Walter S. Franklin, in
the month*of July of the year 1838, at the county aforesaid, had
employed the said plaintiff, and, in his capacity of clerk of said
House, had agreed and contracted with said plaintiff to print a
ninth
of said
laws of
in the
resolved,a and
deliver
from volume
his office,
as clerk
the manner
House as
aforesaid,
copyto of
said
laN to said plaintiff, to enable him to print the same, and had
directed the chef clerk in the office of said clerk of the House of
R3 ep a entatives to prepare the said copy, -and deliver the same to
said plaintiff"; he, the said plaintiff, inconsideration thereof, had
made ample arrangements, and employed the means to print the
said ninth volume of said laws, and was in all respects ready and
willing to print the same, after the manner as directd in said
resolution, when the said Walter S. Franklin departed this life,
and the said Hugh A. Garland was elected his successor as
clerk of the House of Representatives aforesaid, and had cbarge
of the laws aforesaid, from which the said ninth volume was
to be printed.* And the said plaintiff having the contract
aforesaid, and in consideration thereof having prepared for the
faithful execution of the terms thereof according to said resolution,
and having also, socr, after the election of said defendant as clerk
aforesaid, to wit, on or about the month of December, in the year
1838, at the county aforesaid, and before the committing of the
grievances herein complained of, the said defendant was notified
of said subsisting contract, and of plaintiff's readiness, and willin ness, and preparation to comply wit the same, according to the said
resolution ; all of which notification of contract and preparation,
as given aforesaid, the said plaintiff avers, and the said defendant
was in duty bound, as clerk aforesaid, to deliver ' copy of said

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

133

Garland v. Davis.

laws to -said plaintiff, in consequence and by reason of the said
resolutien of Congress and the said contract of'said plaintiff. And
he the said plaintiff afterwards, to wit, on or about the 1st day of
February, 1839, at the county aforesaid, asked and demanded of
said defendant, who had charge of -said laws from which the said
ninth volume was to be printed, as clerk of the House of Representatives aforesaid, a copy of said laws under his charge, for the
purpose of printing the same according to said contract, and in the
manner as directed in said resolution, 'and withqut which copy from
the office of said clerk the said plaintiff coult-not print the said
laws as directed in said resolution ; that the said defendant, contriving and wrongfully and injuriously intending to injure the said
plaintiff, and to deprive him of the profits, and emoluments, and
advantages which he might apd otherwise would have derived and
acquired from the printing of said ninth vflume of the laws of the
United States, pnd of the profits;, emoluments, and advantages of
the said subsisting -contract, well knowing that, without a copy of
said laws from his said office, the plaintiff could not print the same
as directed in said resolution ; and the said defendant being in duty
bound to deliver a copy of said laws, as clerk aforesaid, to said
plaintiff, to comply with said resolution of Congress and with
plaintiff's contract aforesaid, afterwards, to wit, on or about the
Ist day of February, 1839, at the county aforesaid, and on divers
other days and times between that day and the day of the issuing
the writ in this behalf, did rongfully and injuriously refuse to daliver, or furnish or permit to be delivered'from said office, or furnished therefrom to said plaintiff, a copy of the laws of the United
States for printing the said ninth volume of said laws, as resdlved
in said resolution; and did also wrongfully and injuriously refuse
to allow the said plaintiff to print the said ninth volume of said.
laws in the manner directed in said resolution, and did prevent and
hinder him from printing the same. By means whereof the said
George M. Davis lost the printing of said ninth volume of'said
laws, and the benefit of said contract ; and hath b .en hindered and
prevented from making, deriving, and having the profits, emoluments, and advantages of such printing, and of the compliance,
upon his part, with the said contract, and hath also lost his time,
trouble, and money, in preparations for complying with said colutract ; which profits, emoluments, and advantages [he]. hath been
so hindered from making, and time, trouble, and money he hath
so lost in said preparations, were of great value, to wit, of the
value of two thousand five hundred dollars, current money, and
which profits and money he, the said plaintiff, might and would
have had and received, but for the wrongful conduct of said de:
fendant."
There was another count in the declaration, setting forth the
same circumstances in a different manner.
VOL. IV.

L

134

SUPREME COURT.
Garland v. Davis.

The plea was " non assumpsit," upon which issue was joined,
and the cause went on to trial. The record, after mentioning the
names of the jury, proceeded thus: " Who, being empanelled and sworn to say the truth in the
premises, upon their oath do say, that the said defendant did
assume upon himself in manner and form as the aforesaid plaintiff
above against him hath complained, and they assess the damages
of the said plaintiff, sustained by reason of the nonperformance of
the promise and assumption aforesaid, to the sum of nineteen hundred dollars current money."
A motion was then made in arrest of judgment for the following
reasons, viz. :" 1. Because there is no cause of action stated in the first count
of the plaintiff's declaration.
"2. Ditto, as to the second count.
"3. Because there is a general verdict, and one count is bad.
"F. S. KEY, for defendant."
This motion was overruled, and judgment entered upon the verdict.
In the course of the trial, two bills of exceptions were taken on
the part of the defendant, which were as follows :1st Exception. "In the trial of this Cause, the plaintiff, having
offered the resolution of Congress of 14th October, 1837, proved that
in July, 1838, a verbal contract was made between the plaintiff and
Walter Franklin, then clerk of the House of Representatives of the
United States, for the printing of the ninth volume of the laws of
Congress, in which it was agreed that the plaintiff should d6 the
printing thereof on the same terms as had been previously agreed
with plaintiff's father, who had died some short time before, and had
been paid to said plaintiff's father for the eighth volume of the
laws of the United States, and was to be paid for the same at the
usual Congress prices, - the printing to be executed under the
superintendence and direction of Samuel Burche, chief clerk of
said House of Representatives ; that no minute or entry of said
agreement was made in writing, among the books and papers of
said Franklin's office ; that it is usual and customary for the contracts made 'on the authority of the House to be made verbally,
and the same have always been received by the House and paid
for ; and that the said plaintiff frequently, after the making of the
said agreement, called on said Burche for the work, stating his
readiness to proceed with the work, and did not receive the same,
because the said Burche had not prepared the laws for publication.
"I And then furthek proved, that the said Walter Franklin died
in September, 1838, and the defendant was elected clerk of the
House on the first Monday of December, 1838 ; that some time
afterwards, in December, 1839, the said Burche, not having yet

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

135

Garland v. Davis.

prepared the said laws for said publication, and the said plaintiff
waiting as before for the same, the said Garland was informed, about
the 1st of January, 1839, of the contract so as aforesaid verbally
made between the said Franklin and the plaintif, and observed
that he had understood such a resolution was passed, and that such
a work was to be given out for printing, and that he considered
that as the agreement was a verbal one it was not binding, and that
he .bad the right to give the contract to whom he pleased ; that
afterwards, in about two months from the beginning of December,
1838, he was again called upon and informed of the said contract,
verbally made with the plaintiff by the said Franklin, when he said
he had made an agreement or a contract with one Langtree ; and
that the said Garland did make such agreement with said Langtree,
and ordered the work not to be given to the said plaintiff, but to be
given to said Langtree to be printed, which was done accordingl-r,
and the plaintiff thereby prevented from doing the work.
" And further proved, that said plaintiff had made considerable
preparations for the work, and had engaged Mr. Gideon to do the
printing of the work, and had transferred to said Gideon his office
and press, valued at $1,000, to be paid for by the profits of the
work, - of all which the defendant was informed before he made
the contract with Langtree ; and that plaintiff suffered considerable
loss by the taking away said contract; and that said Gideon, in
the prosecution of his preparations for said work, had expended
600 or $ 700 for paper for that very work.
" And further, that at the time of making said verbal contract
with said Franklin, the plaintiff asked him if it was necessary it
should be reduced to writing, and was answered that it was not
necessary, and was not usual ; and also proved that there was no
written contract in the office of the clewk for the printing of the
eighth volume of the laws of 'tle United States.- And that said
Franklin knew and assented to the plaintiff's engaging said Gideon
to do the said printing at the time of said contract; and that the
defendant was advised by the clerks, before he made the contract
with said Langtree, to be cautious and nct get into difficulties by
giving the work to another. And that no written contract with
said Langtree, nor any memorandum thereof, -appears in the office
of said clerk.
"1And upon the evidence aforesaid of the said plaintiff, the defendant, by his counsel, prayed the court to instruct the jury, that
if the same was believed by the jury to be true, the plaintiff 'was
not entitied to recover, which the court refused, -to which refusal
dcfeadant excepts, and prays the court to sign and seal this bill
of exceptions, which is done this 14th day of April, 1842.
[SEAL.]
W. CRANCH.
[sEAL.]
B. THRUSTON.
JAS. S. MOR8ELL. [sEAL.]"

136

SUPREME COURT.
Garland v. Davis.

2d Exception. "And thereupon the defendant, on the said
evidence, prayed the court to instruct the jury as follows :
" If the jury believe from the evidence that the defendant, in
making the subsequent contract with Langtree, and causing the
compilation to be delivered to him to be printed, acted officially
and bona fide, and not with corrupt motives, and verily believed
that the prior contract made verbally with the plaintiff was not obligatory, then he is not liable to damages in this action upon the
evidence aforesaid; which also the court refused to give, - to
which refusal defendant excepts, and prays the court to sign and
seal this bill of exceptions, which is done accordingly, this 14th
W. CRANCH.
[SEAL.]
day of April, 1842.
B. THRUSTON.
[SEAL.]
JAS. S. MORSELL. [SEAL.]"
Upon these two exceptions the case came up toithis court.
It was argued by ,Mr. Robert . Brent, for the plaintiff in error ,
and Mr. Coxe, for defendant.
Mr. Brent, for plaintiff.
The first count is defective in this 1st. It does not show any authority in the former clerk (Franklin) to make the contract on which Davis founds his claim, for the
averment, that Franklin was "directed to caue to be printed a ninth
volume of the laws, &c., after the manner of the eighth volume
thereof," does not necessarily imply an authority to contract, inasmuch as that power could be executed by causing the volume to
be printed by the regular printer of Congress, who might be entifled to all its printing.
All the facts stated in this count may be true, and yet Franklin
have no power to make a contract. (See, as part of this argument,
the Reports of House Committee in volume of Reports of Committees, 1840-41, No. 16, Rep. No. 101 and 215.) Therefore I conclude that Franklin's authority as a public officer to
make the contract with Davis does not sufficiently appear, and if
so, it results as a corollary that it was hig own unauthorized contract, and not binding on his official successor.
2d. If, however, it was Franklin's official contract, binding on
'his successor, then it was only binding on the appellant, as the
agent of the House of Representatives, and the appellee's remedy
should be against the House of Representatives; by appeal to its
justice. (See on this, 1 D. & E. 674 - 678 ; Hodgson v. Dex.
ter, 1 Cranch, 362 ; 7 Wendell, 254'; 12 Wendell, 179 ; 18
Johns, 125 ; Chisolm v. Georgia, 2 Dallas, 419, 444 ; 1 D. &
E.3'd.172; 2 Cowen, 533.)
If binding on Garland as clerk, yet this count shows no act

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

137

Garland v. Davis.

of his tending to establish any liability on his part to Davis, bmt a
repudiation of the contract utterly.
4th. This count shows no considerationfor the cofitract, for it
is nowhere averred that Davis was to be compensated, nor is it sufficiently shown that Davis entered on the performance of this contract. (See Coggs v.Bernard, 2 Ld. Raym. 919, 920, and Elsee
v. Gatward, 5 D. & E. 143.) Merely stating that Davis was
prepared to execute the contract does not make a sufficient consideration.
5th. The contract, as herein shown, was to print after the manner of the eighth volume, and the count omits to show the manner
of printing the eighth volume, and thus a material term of the contract is not shown.
Again, the second count is, in addition to the above objections
made to first count, liable to the further objections :- 1st, that it
,shows, by way of recital a contract with Franklin as clerk (the
*consideration or terms of which are not given), and then sets forth
no other ground for Garland's liability, except his being the successor to Franklin, -and refusing to giye the copy.
Now it is obvious that Franklin may have made a private or unauthorized contract as clerk, and it will not be contended that a
clerk's contracts are ipso facto binding on his successor, without
showing something more than his naked contract, as a ministerial
officer is not supposed ex officio to be capable of making any contract he may choose.
2d. This colnt does not show that by the contract the clerk
was to furnish the copy, but merely a subsequent- promise by
Franklin to fqinish the copy, and yet the gravamen of it is the
refusal of Gayland to furnish a copy.
Again, iti manifest, on the face of both these counts, that no
liability in dfendant is shown, and that the declaration is in material respects uncertain and unmeaning according to'the rules bf
pleading.
If eithr count is defective, the judgment should have been arrested. (5 D. & E. 143.)
The trst exception sets foith all the evidence, and I con end its
prayer 'should be granted, because, Istj The contract as proved was variant in this, that the printing was to be on the same terms as plaintiff's father had agreed for
(8th vol.), and the declaration does not show any such terms in
the contract.
'2d. The declaration does not set forth the material qualification
in the contract, that the printing was to be under direction of
Burche. '(See the statement of evidence.)
3d. The proof is, that payment was to be at usual Congress
prices, and they are not averred in the declaration, nor shown in
evidence.
voL. Iv.
18

138

SUPREME COURT.
Garlan'd v. Davis.

4th. The proof is, that the printing was to be done under direction of Sam. Burche, and that Burche was the party in default in
not preparing the laws; how then could defendant give a copy
until flurche's compilation was completed, which is nowhere
shown in the evidence ?
Again, the evidence sets forth as the basis of Franklin's authority the resolution of 14th October, 1837 (which see in House
Journal, 14th October, 1837, Extra Session, p. 191). It appears from the plaintiff's own evidence thus offered, that Franklin's power was in limine r~ferrible to another resolution which
should govern and control his power, and which resolution was not
given in evidence, but can be seen in House Journal, 30th June,
1834, page 903; and also see House Journal, 25th June, 1836,
page 1098.
Now the whole evidence either shows a complete authority in
Franklin to make the contract, or it does not. If it shows his authority, then could Franklin be sued for nonperf6rmance ? (See
1 Durn. & East, 172, and 2 Cowen, 533.) If he could not be
sued, how can his successor in office ? And if his contract was
unauthorized, his official successor cannot be bound by it.
Again, here is a public officer bound, we will suppose, to have
the laws printed ; -he finds that his predecessor had never executed his power, and he feels the obligation to discharge his official
duty. Is he to be obstructed in that duty by caveats and notices
from A., B., and C., that, as clerk, he must comply with contracts
of his predecessor, of which he has no proof but an assertion or
an unsworn statement of a witness ? Has he even a discretion to
determine whether his predecessor made a contract or not ? He
finds the duty unexecuted by his predecessor, and he is bound to
select either the public printer, if there be one, or to take the matterinto his own hands, and perform it with his own agents. How
dangerous it would be to suffer a clerk to be intimidated and delayed in matters of such high importance by the notices of every
man who might set himself up as entitled by a verbal contract with
his predecessor.
Again, it is to be regretted that.the record does not contain the
fact that there was, at the time of Franklin's dontract, a regular
printer, duly elected by Congress, and entitled to all its printing
(see Report of Committee, supra, Ist point) ; but though the fact is
not in the record, yet the resolution of 14th October, 1837, does
not on its face imply any power to the clerk to make contracts for
the printing, but only to cause a volume to be printed after the manner of the eighth volume and under a previous resolution, which,
if incorporated as it ought to be as part of plaintiff's case, might
have shown, that the manner of printing the eighth volume was
by the public printer, and not by such person as the clerk might
select.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

139

Garland v. Davis.

Again, the former resolution ought to be produced as part of
the plaintiff's case, and to fix the terms of the contract, and it is
material, as, if shown, it might appear that the contract was not to
be executed within a year, and therefore void under statute of
frauds. (See Boydel v. Drummond, 11 East, 142.)
It does not appear from the record that Garland ever received
any money to pay for such a contract, or that he acted with fraud
or deceit.
On the second exception, I refer to Stockton and Stokes v.
Kendall, 3 Howard's Rep. 97, 98.
.Mr. Coxe, for defendant in error.
The first count in the declaration sets forth the resolution of the
House of Reprentatives, directing the clerk to cause to be compiled a ninth volume of the laws, &c. ; that being so directed, the
then clerk, Franklin, employed the plaintiff, and agreed and contracted with him in pursuance of said resolution. This being an
action for a tort, and the contract referred to being mere inducement, not the gist of the action, such statement of the authority to
contract, and of, the actual contract, is in accordance with the
strictest rules of pleading. Particularly after verdict such averments are sufficient.
The second, third, and fourth objections are founded upon a
misapprehension of the nature of the action. It is not a suit
brought upon a contract for the purpose of compelling its performance. In this case, Franklin acted as agent of the House in making the contract, and could not be held responsible for its execution. The suit is brought against Garland for an illegal, unauthorized act of his own, individually, in preventing the execution of
the contract, and depriving plaintiff of the benefits which were to
result to him from it, and remuneration for the expenditures be had
made towards its performance. The main grounds of defence
now urged were taken in the case of Freeman v. Otis, 9 Mass. 272.
Another casd, Shepherd v. Lincoln, 17 Wend. 250, illustrates
the distinction. That was a suit brought against ,defendant as superintendent of repairs of canal, and he was -held responsible for
an act of negligence or misfeasance.
Franklin made the contract as a public agent, and therefore
never could have been made personally responsible for its nonexecution by the House. Garland does not pretend that he was
instructed or directed by the -House to annul that contract ; his
interference was unauthorized, and therefore he is answerable.
The general principle is, that when an agent acts within the
scope of his authority he is not personally responsible, - recourse
must be bad to the principal ; but if he transcend his&authority, he
is personally liable.
The declaration is sufficient in averring, the actual existence of

140

SUPREME COURT.
Garland v. Davis.

a contract. The terms of the contract are unimportant in this
suit, and need not be averred. Even in an action brought on 'the
contract itself, it is sufficient to aver it according to its legal effect,
and it is unnecessary to set out more of it than suffices to show
a cAuse of action. 2 Wend. 579; 8 Cow. 33, 9 ; 13 Johns.
224.
2d. The same answer may be given to the objections urged
against the second count.
In an action brought for misfeasance, it is unnecessary to aver or
prove any consideration for the contract. 20 Johns. 379.
3d. Upon the bills of exceptions. It is a sufficient answer to
these exceptions to say, that they do not profess to be founded on
all the evidence in the case. The first bill, after stating' certain
evidence as given by plaintiff on the trial, says (p. 14), "upon the
evidence afoiesaid of the said plaintift, defendant prays," &c. It
does not allege that this was the whole evidence given. This is a
fatal. and. incurable defect in the case. For aught that appears,
other and sufficient evidence may have been given, and the omission of it may have been the very reason why the instruction pray,ed was refused'by the court. Plaintiff i'error must establish the
error in the judgment complained of ; every reasonable intendment should be in favor of the judgment. Ventress v. Smith, 10
Peters, 161,
2d. The only evidence stated in the bill of exceptions is such
as was adduced by plaintiff. The prayer is, then, substantially a
demurrer to the evidence Every fact which it conduced to prove,
and every conclusion inferrible from those facts, is admitted ;
maalafide8 and oppression are fairly deducible from the facts proved. The jury has passed upon all the allegations in the ddclaration; and if they went beyond the testimony, the proper remedy
was 'by motion for a new trial. The jury took the case without
any instruction whatever from the court.
The four. specific objections now made imply that all the evidence is embodied in the record, which does not appear ; and they
are founded. upon the misapprehension already adverted to, in sup.
posing this actioin to be brought upon a contract against a party to
it to compel its performance.
This has leen shown to be an
error.
The subsequent exceptions are all fully answered in what has
been before said.
After the argument was closed, the court intimated to the counsel the difficulty arising from the irregular plea, 'issue, and verdict,
compared with the declaration, upon which Milr. Cozxe filed the
following supplementary argument.
The difficulty now suggested by the -court is understqod to be
this. The action is brought as for a tort, the plea is non assump-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

141

Garland v. Davis.

sit. Issue being joined on this plea, verdict for plaintiff and judgment entered accordingly. Can this judgment be sustained upon
these pleadings ?
I. The entry of the pleas is, in the Circuit Court, the act of
the clerk, the defendant being at liberty to abide by the plea thus
entered, or to plead de novo. If he does not amend, he adopts
and abides by the plea filed by the clerk.
In this case, the plea of non assumpsit, if entirely wrong, is a
mere clerical error, which would have been amended had it been
brought to the notice of the court. If defendant had refused to
amend, the plea would have been regarded as a nullity, and judgment entered for want of a plea. This plea was adopted by defendant, and is therefore to be regarded as his. The fault, if any;

is his.
2. The action, though sounding in tort, is founded upon a contract. The existence of this contract was traversable, and on the
trial it was necessary for plaintiff to prove it. The plea of non
assumpsit may be so moulded as to make it a denial of the contract made between plaintiff and Franklin. As in covenant, the
plea of non, est fac*lum is a good plea, though it merely puts in
issue the actual execution of theinstrument declared on, and neither denies the breach nor the alleged consequences.
A special
plea, putting in issue the contract which lies at the foundation of
this action, would, therefore, not be an immaterial plea.
3. As a general rule, a party shafl not be permitted to derive
benefit from his own error. If there is fault, it is the defendant's
fault, and, at this stage of the case, it would be in violation of
this principle to allow him to assign it for error.
4. Defendant has not assigned this defect for error, - he has
not asked f6r a reversal on this ground.
5. If the error i fatal, it should have been brought before this
court in another form. The Circuit Court should have been moved
for a repleader ; had they refused, such refusal is assignable for error.
No such application was made, and consequently there is no error
cognizable by the Supreme Court.
6. Had the Circuit Court refused to award a repleader, and such
judgment been reversed as erroneous, the judgment of the Supreme Court would have remanded the cause, with its mandate directing such repleader. But can a court of errors in any other
way award a repleader? Gould on Pleading, 518, § 47.
7. If the Circuit Court might lawfully have refused to award a
repleader, then there is no error.
Gould on P1. 509, § 32. A repleader for the immateriality of
the issue is never awarded, it seems, for that party who tendered
the issue. Cites Dougl. 749, per Buller. There can be no
.ground for a repleader, for the plea is substantially bad ; there is

142

SUPREME COURT.
Garland v. Davis.

no fact alleged in it which it could serve any purpose to deny, or
to go to issue upon.
1 Ld. Raym. 170. It was argued, that if the verdict passes
against him who made the first fault in pleading, no repleader shall
be granted, but it is otherwise if it passes for him. The court
refused to award a repleader, for the issue was not wholly immaterial, and after verdict court will intend that the matter put in
issue was material.
1 H. B1. 644. In assumpsit, declaration had five counts. Defendant pleaded nil debet to the first, and left the others unanswered. Judgment for plaintiff. Court held the defect cured by the
verdict, and defendant should not take advantage of his own mispleading to defeat plaintiff's suit, when jury had found he owed
the debt.
Cowp. 510. Court will not grant a repleader but where complete justice may be answered.
Gould, 510, § 32. Therefore, if verdict is against him who tendered the issue, judgment must also regularly go against him. For,
as the fault in the issue commenced on his part, his traverse being
bad .in law, and it being moreover found to be false in fact, it is
deemed unreasonable to grant him the indulgence of a repleader.
Yet if the verdict were for the same party, a repleader would
regularly be awarded. §§ 33-36.
Ibid. § 37. Courts ought never to award a repleader, or arrest
the judgment for faults in the issue, when it is apparent that no
useful end can be attained in so doing. Citing I Str. 198, where
Powys, J., said, -" I I am of the same opinion, for if we should
grant a repleader, 1 do not see how we can have any new light in
the case."
Gould, §§ 38, 45. Judgment ought never to be given for, or
arrested in behalf of, that party in whose pleading the first substantial defect is found. Ibid. § 49.
After verdict for the plaintiff,'the defendant shall not take advantage of his own mispleading. Harvey v. Richards, 1 H. Black. 644.
The plea. of " not guilty" in assumpsit is cured by verdict.
The error assigned was, that issue was joined on the plea of not
guilty. Verdict cured that. 8 Serg. & Rawle, 441 ; 2 Stra.
1022.
A right defectively alleged is cured by verdict. 6 Verin. Rep.
496 ; 2 farshall, 254.
A defective statement in the.declaratior. (or want of date of the
assumpsit, also failure to state the consideration, is cured by verdict. I 'Watts, 429 ; 1 Day, 186, note.
After verdict in an action by an administrator, a defective allegation in the declaration of the promise to the administratolb and
the death of the intestate, and an omission to make profert of
the letters of administration, cannot be taken advantage of,

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

143

-Garland v. Davis.

though they might have furnished good causes of demurrer.
I Harris & Gill, 14.
It was held, that in an action of assumpsit and not guilty pleaded,
and issue,-the judgment may be entered, for it is only mispleading,
and the real merits may as well be tried on that issue as on any
other. 4 Bac. Abr. 84.
The omission to join in issue to some of the replications is
healed after verdict. 3 Harris & Johns. 109.
Departure is cured by verdict. Connect. Rep. 252.

Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
In the examination of this case, a defect has been discovered in
the pleadings and verdict, which was not noticed in the court
below, nor. suggested by the counsel here.
And the first question is, whether, under these circumstances,
it can be considered by us ; and if it can be, and is a material defect, not cured or otherwise capable of being overcome, whether
it ought to be made a ground for reversing the judgment, and sending the case back for amendment and further proceedings.
There can be no doubt, that exceptions to the opinions given
by courts below .must all be taken at the time the opinions are
pronounced.
But it is equally clear, that when the whole record is before the
court above, as in this case, any exception appearing on it can
be taken by counsel which could have been taken below. Roach
v. Hulings, 16 Peters, 319.
So it is the duty of the court to give judgment on the whole
record, and not merely on the points started by counsel. Slacum
v. Pomeroy, 6 Cranch, 421 ; Baird & Co. v. Mattox, l'Call,
257 ; 16 Peters, 319.
In United States v. Burnham, 1 Mason, 62, the court alone
toolk notice of the defect, which was the sole ground of its, opinion.
In Patterson v. United States, 2 Wheat. 222, it is stated, that
the points made were not considered by the court, and judgment was pronounced on other grounds," and Justice Washington
says (p. 24), -" The court considers it to be unnecessary to decide
the questions which were argued at the bar, as the verdict is so
defective that no judgment can be rendered upon it" ; and on'that
account the proceedings below were reversed. See also Harrison
et al. v. Nixon, 9 Peters, 483,-535.
I proceed, then, to consider the nature and -character of the
difficulty in this case, appearing on the record.
Since discovering it, an opportunity has been given to -the counsel for the original plaintiff, which has been improved, to attempt
to remove it by argument and authorities. But it still remanis,
and consists in this.
The declaration is an action on the case, sounding in tort. It

144

SUPREME COURT.
Garland v. Davis.

sets out no contract except one by way of inducement, made by
Mr. Franklin, the predecessor in office of the defendant, and it
then proceeds to make the gist of its complaint a wrongful and
injurious neglect and refusal by the defendant to furnish a copy of
certain laws to the plaintiff, as had been agreed by Franklin. We
are required to take this view of the declaration, not only by the
averments. in it, but by both the present and past positions of
the counsel for the plaintiff, that it was intended to be founded on
a misfeasance. The plea, however, instead of being "not guilty,"
as was proper in such case (Com. Dig. Pleader), is non assumpsit, and the plaintiff below, not demurring thereto, nor moving
for judgment notwithstanding such a plea, joined issue upon it, and
the verdict of the jury conforms to the plea and issue, and merely
finds, "that the defendant did assume upon himself in manner and
form," &c., and assesses damages, "sustained by reason of the
nonperformance of the promise and assumption aforesaid."
Beside the general reasoning in the books, that pleas amounting
to the general issue should traverse the material averments in the
declaration, and, where the action is one on the case for a tort,
should deny the tort by pleading "not guilty," it is laid down
in most elementary treat, ses that "1not guilty is the proper general
issue in such cases. See. Com. Dig. Pleader.
Beyond this, it has been actually adjudged in an action on the
case, after full hearing, that non assumpsit was a bad plea. Noble
v'. Lancaster, Bames, 125.
That action was trover, but being still an action on the case, the
same principle' applied.
Nor is the difference merely formal or*technical between actions founded in tort and in contract. I Chit. Plead, 418, 229.
Because, when in tort or cx delictu, a set-off is not admissible,
nor can infancy be pleaded as to one ex contractu, nor can a plq
in abatement be sustained, that all- concerned in the wrong are not
joined, as it may be in counts on contracts, and a writ of inquiry
must issue to ascertain the damages, which is often unnecessary in
sults on contracts. "A declaration is bad which unites a count
in tort .with one in contract. 2 Chit. 229, 230 ; 1 Chitty's Rep.
625, note; 4 D. & E. 794 ; 8 D. & E. 33.
' Various other cases' analogous to this might be cited, which
tend to show that the present* plea is improper, but it is not
deemed necessary, in this stage of the inquiry, to enlarge on that
point; and I proceed to the next and more difficult question,
whether such a plea, though bad on demurrer, should not be considered as good after verdict, and cured by the statute of jeofails.
As a general rule, all informality in a good plea is held to be
cured by a verdict, and ought to be, in order not to delay, through
a defect of mere form, what may seem to be just. 1 Levinz, 32;
6 Mod. 1 ; Com. Dig. Pleader, R. 18 ; 6 Johns. R. I.

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

145

Garland v. Davis.

Here, however, there appears to be no informality in a good
plea ; on the contrary, it looks more like formality in a bad one.
And if it be asked, whether there are no cases of-bad pleas which
are cured by a verdict, we answer, that several exist, but that they
are cases where the pleas, though bad on demurrer, because wrong
in form, yet still contain enough of substance to put in issue the
material parts of the declaration. That is the test..
In the opinion of a majority of the court, the plea under consideration does not contain enough for that purpose ; and my
apology for examining this point somewhat more in detail must be
found in the circumstance, that the court are divided upon it.
The provision by Congress in relation to amendments is to be
found in the 32d section of the Judiciary Act of September 24th,
1789, and is similar to that -in the 32 Henry 8th, but certainly
not broader. See the former, in 1 Lit. & Brown's ed. 91, and
the latter in 1 Bac. Abr. .Amendment and Jeofail¢B.
Under both of these statutes, it has frequently been adjudged,
that defects in substance are not cured by a verdict ; "for this,"
says Bacon (Abr., before quoted, E),II would have ruined all proceedings in the courts of justice " ; and a defect in substance, in
a plea or verdict, is conceded, in all the books, to exist when they
do not cover "whatever is essential to the gist of the action."
The present plea, if tried by this test, seems not to be reinedied
by the verdict, because, so far from traversing all that is essential,
nothing isdenied; unless it be the inducement. Thus it traverses
a promise simply ; but the only promise set out in the declaration
is one introductory to those material averments,-which, as before
stated, are the wrongful and injurious acts of the defendant. So
far from denying those acts, the plea entirely passes them by,
and they are neither put in issue, nor a verdict returned upon them
one way or the other. It is true, that, in some actions for a tort,
a promise may be referred to in the declaration, which sometimes
will constitute one niaterial fact among several others. But it is
only one, and not the whole, nor is it the most material fact ; that
being, in such cases, the misfeasance of the defendant. Nor does
the verdict here find this one fact or promise such as averred
in the inducement. There it is stated to be made by Mr. Frank-.
lin ; but, on the contrary, the verdict finds a promise made by the
defendant.

"

On recurring to precedents,. several are found which confirm
these conclusions. In respect to pleas they show that, when so
imperfect 'and immaterial as this, they are not cured by verdict.
And the reason generally assigned, and which.pervades the whole,
is that before mentioned, namely, that they do not cover or traverse
all the gravamen of the declaration.. Staple v. Heyden, 6 Mod. 10;
Willes, 532 ; Tidd's Prac. 827 ; Gilb. C. P. 146.
Hence it has been decided that a plea of non assumpsitt an
VOL. IV.

19

M

SUPREME COURT.

146
•

-

Garland v. Davis.

action of debt is not thus cured (Brennan v. Egan, 4 Taunt. 164;
Penfold v. Hawkins, 2 Maule & Selw. 606), because it covers too
little or is irrelevant. While, in pursuance of the same rule, it has
been held that nil debet to assumpsit (1 Hen. Bl. 664) and "1not
guilty" either to assumpsit (Cro. El. 470, and 8 Serg. & Rawle,
441), or to covenant (1 Hen. & Munf. 153), or to debt for a
penalty (Coppin v. Carter, 1 D. & E. 462, note), are cured by
a verdict, because they contain enough to put in issue all which
is important in the declaration.
In the present case, the issue manifestly reaches only a part of
the case, and is therefore incurable (Hardres, 331); and it comes
expressly within the definition of an immaterial issue, which is also
incurable. Carth. 371; Bac. Abr. Verdict, K ; 2 Levinz, 12;
2 Saund. 319 ; 2 Mod. 137 ; Gould's P1. 506, 509.
This is undoubted, from Williams's definition in Bennet v. Holbech, 2 Saunders, 319, a. He says, -", An immaterial issue is
where a material allegation in the pleadings is not answered, but
an issue is taken on some point which will not determine the
merits of the case, and the court is often at a loss for which of
the parties to give judgment."
So in Benden v. Manning, 2 N. H. R. 291, it is laid down, on
circumstances like the present, that "if, instead of assumpsit, a
special action on the case had been brought for misfeasance, it is
very clear, that no consideration need have been alleged or proved.
The gist of such an action would have been the misfeasance, and
it would have been wholly immaterial whether the contract was
a valid one or'not." 5 D. & E. 143; 2 Wils. 859; 1 Saund.
312, note 2.
If we should next compare this plea and issue in their substance
with a few others less general3 that have been solemnly adjudged to
be bad, and not cured by verdict, though found for the plaintiff, the
result will be the same.
It may be seen in Tryon v. Carter, 2 Strange, 994, that, in debt
on bond, payable on or before the 5th of December, the defendant
pleaded payment on the 5th of December, and issue being joined
and found against him, the court still awarded a-repleader, as it could
not be inferred from these pleadings that payment may not have been
made before the 5th.
See another in Enys v. .Mohun, 2 Strange, 847, where to covenant
on a lease to C., averred to come by issignment to the defendant, the
plea was that C. did not assign to him, and verdict was for plaintiff.
But the court awarded a repleader, as the issue found does not cover
all the important parts of the declaration ; namely, that the lease may
have come to the defendant not from C. direct, but by mesne assignments. Same case, in I Barnardiston, 182, 220. See also other
cases. Yelv. 154; Peck v. Hill, 2 Mod. 137; Read v. Dawson,
ibid. 139 ; Stafford v. Mayor of Albany, 6 Johns. 1; Com. Dig.

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

147

Garland v. Davis.

Pleader, R. 1 and 2, V. 5; 1 Chit. Pl. 625, 695; 6 D. & E.
462 ; I Saund. 319, n.
In Patterson v. United States, 2 Wheat. 224, Judge Washington lays down the whole law precisely as we view it, in respect
to a -erdict varying materially from the issue, and which principle
applies equally well to a lea varying from the substance of the declaration. He says,-, Whether the jury find a general or a special
verdict, it is their duty to decide the very point in issue, and although
the court in which it is tried may give form to a general finding, so
as to make it harmonize with the issue, yet if it appear to that court
or to the appellate court that the finding is different from the issue,
or is confined only to a part of the matter in issue, no judgment can
be rendered on the verdict." And on error the proceedings below
were reversed.
After all this, it is hardly necessary to state further, by way of
precedent, that in Noble v. Lancaster, Barnes's Notes, 125, before
cited, this very point was decided. Non assumpsit was pleaded
to an action on the case (e. g. trover), and was held not to be cured
by a verdict, but was bad in arrest of judgment..
Looking, theri, to many precedents, as well as correct principles
in pleading, the issue presented and tried here is not only an improper one for the case ; but, not containing enough to cover all that
is material in the declaration, and being thus imperfect in substance,
it "1does not determine the right between the parties," and is not
cured by the verdict or the statute of jeofails.
A moment as tb the defects in the verdict. It is difficult to see
how an immaterial and bad plea can be cured by a verdict, which,
as in this case, is quite as immaterial as the plea. Indeed, in some
respects, the verdict here, compared with the declaration, is more
defective and irremediable6 than the plea.
It is laid down in Comyns's Dig. Pleader,S. 24, that a verdict is,
even void if it be "variant from the declaration," and he gives as
one illustration from 2 Roll. 703, 1. 35, "in assumpsit, if it finds
a different promise."
In the present case, the promise is found not only diffrrent from
that laid in the declaration as inducwnent, but the verdict varies in
other essential respects from the declaration, finding nothing of any
of the misfeasance chprged in it on the defendant.
The defect here, -then, is in the verdict as well as plea, and
though a mere informality in the former is cured by the act of Congress as to amendments (16 Peters, 319), yet the defect here is
similar in both, and as just shown, being on principle' in both a defect in substance no less than form, is uncured. (Stearns v. Barrett, 1 Mason's R. ;170, and 2 Mason's R. 31.)
But several arguments have been offered against a reversal of the
judgment and further proceedings, and in favor of rendering judgment for the plaintiff, on, this rec6rd, though the plea, issue, and

148

SUPREME COURT.
Garland v. Davis.

verdict are all defective in substance, and do not show which party
is entitled to-recover, on the real merits in dispute, or that they
have been legally tried.
These arguments it is our duty to examine. One is, that the
whole merits, according to th& evidence reported, may have actually
been considered and passed upon in the court below under this
plea and issue. Bur" it is a sufficient answer to this, that if so
done it Was illegally done, no evidence being competent under
that issue except the promise described in it, and no opinion of
the jury or the court being regular or proper under it, except as to
that promise alone. Harrison et al. v. Nixon, 9 Peters, 484.
There are many cases showing that the evidence must be limited to the plea. Kar. Ins. Company v. Hodgson, 6 Cranch, 206 ;
4 Wheat. 64, in case of the Divinp" Pastora. The court say you
must "not admit the introduction of evidence varying from the
facts alleged." 9 Peters, 484. The probata should conform to
the allegata. Boone v. Chiles, 10 Peters, 177.
In Barnes v. Williams, 11 Wheat. 416, it is said,-" Upon inspecting the record, it had been discovered that the special ver.dict found in the case w~s too" imperfect to enable the court to
render judgment upon it." A certain fact was important to the recovery. "Although in the opinion of the court there was sufficient
evidence in the special verdict from which the jury might have
fouid the fact, yet they have not found it, and the court could not
upon a special verdict intend it."
These illustrations and cases tend to show the difficulties in
forming an opinion on any thing not found or apparent on the record; and the impropriely of conjecturing and pronouncing on the
real merits, when both the issue and verdict are defective in substance in relation to them. But, in this case, if the promise averred to have been made by Franklin was treated gt the trial as one
made by Garland, so far as regarded its operation and his duty, which has been the argument of the original plaintiff's counsel before us, and which may, for aught we now decide, be corrrect,
-then
we should be called upon to render judgment against Garland merely on such promise and a breach of it.
That is every thing which the verdict finds or the issue presents,
in the most favorable view.
But that being a promise confessedly oa the whole evidence
made by the original defendant, or his predecessor, as a public
agent, if now rendering final judgment, we should probably, in
that view of the record (no tort having been put in issue or found
by the verdict), be obliged to decide against the original plaintiff
on the merits, because public agents are not usually liable on
mere contracts or promises made in behalf of their principals.
(See on this Hodgson v. Dexter, 1 Cranch, 345 ; Macbeath v.
Haldimand, I D. & E. 172 ; Fox v. Drake et al., 8 Cowen,

JANUARY

TERM,. 1846.

149

Garland r. Davis.

191 ; 2 Dall. 444 ; Osborne v. Kerr, 12 Wend: 179 ; Story on
Agency, §§ 302-308 ; Lord Palmerston's case, 3 Brod. & Bing.
275 ; Freeman v. Ods, 9 Mass. R. 272, quxre in part.)
On the contrary, however, if the, action is to be considered as
brought, not on any promise except as inducement, but on a
wrongful act or misfeasance, as the plaintiff sets out his case in
his declaiation and still contends to be the truth, then it seems
manifest that -nothing on that misfeasance, the essential point of
the action, having been either traversed in the plea or found by
the verdict -there is nothing upon which judgment can legally be
rendered for either party on the merits. It will be seen that we
come to this conclusion, not because cases are wanting which
hold that officers not judicial, nor having any discretion to exercise on a subject (Wheeler v. Patterson, I New Hamp. R. 88 ;
Kendall v. Stokes, 3 Howard, 98 ; 11 lohns. 114 ; 2 Ld. Raym.
938), are liable in tort for misfeasances, whenever they are violations of public laws or official duties (Shepherd v. Lincoln, 17
Wendell, 250 ; 5 Burr. 2709 ; 6 D. & E. 445; Gidley, Ex. of
Holland v. Lord Palmerston, 7 J. B. Moore, 91 ; 15 East, 384 ;
9 Clark & Fin. 251 ; 1 Bos. & Pul. 229 ; Little et al. v. Barreme et al., 2 Cranch, 170; 13 Johns. 141 ; Tracy et al. v.
Swartwout,- 10 Peters, 95), though others consist of unsuccessful attempts to charge persons in tort for matters which originated
and existed in fact only as contracts (Bristow et al. v. Eastman,
1 Esp. N. P. Rep. 172 ; Jennings v. Rundall, 8 D. & E. 335),
or which were mere nonfeasances (20 Johns. 379 ; 12 Mod. 488 ;
1 Ld. Raym. 466; 4 Maule & Selw. 27; Story on Agency, § 308);
but because the issue and verdict present nothing in relation to any
such misfeasance, and our opinion is intended' to be confined to
the questions on the pleadings, without any decision upon the
merits. Indeed, it would be difficult to express one on them
where we have been unable to agree on one, and where a majority of the court think the pleadings are not in a proper state to
enable us to give one satisfactorily.
In this state of things,,the most obvious course to assist us to
"reach the law and justice of the case" would be to reverse the
judgment below and award a repleader. This would not deprive
either party of any mperits they may have, and may be able hereafter to show on proper pleadings, and costs would indemnify the
party who has been delayed by any bad pleading, so far as he
ought to be indemnified considering his own fault in this case, in
joining and trying an issue immaterial or radically insufficient to
settle the cause of action, rather than demurring to the plea seasonably. But such , a course is objected to on certain grounds not
yet considered, and which it is our duty to notice. One of thein
is, that when a plea or verdict is radically defective, judgment
ought to be rendered, itotwithstanding the verdict, for the party
M*

150

SUPREME COURT.
Garland v. Davis.

whose pleadings are right ; and another, a branch of this, is, that a
court ought in no case to permit the party who commits the first
error to have the judgment reversed and be allowed a repleader,
unless, perhaps, when the verdict is in his favor.
Though several of the text-books lay down rules like these in
broad terms, it is first to be noticed that some state them with a
quwre or doubt. (1 Chit. P1. note, 522, 633, and Com. Dig.
Pleader.) In others, the cited authorities do not support
them, as Gilbert, quoted in Tidd, 828. In others, the counsel,
rather than the court, recognize them. Kempe v. Crews, 1 Ld.
Raym. 170 ; Taylor v. Whitehead, Doug. 749. In others, the
court refer to them, but do not .appear to have founded their decision on them, as Webster v. Bannister, Doug. 396, where the
issue covered the merits (3 Hen. & Munf. 388), and in others,
matters still different existed, which justified the judgment given,
independent of these rules.
Thus, if aplea be bad, but still confesses the cause of action
without setting out a sufficient avoidance, judgment can with propriety be rendered for the plaintiff on such confession, if the decla'ation be good. Rex v. Philips, I Str. 397 ; Jones v. Bodingham, 1 Salk. 173: Gould on P1. 509 ; Simonton v. Winter et al.,
5 Peters, 141 ; Kirtley v. Deck, 3 Hen. & Munf. 388; 6 Mod.
10 ; Tidd, 827.
So if the plea be a mere nullity, - putting nothing material in
issue, -judgment is at times allowed to be signed as for want of a
plea, as if nil dicit, provided the declaration be good. 4 Taunt.
164 ; 2 Maule & Selw.-606.
So, if the plea be evidently a sham plea, or fictitious, a like
course is warranted. 10 East, 237 ; Tidd,.831.
Or if the plea, though neither of these, still be defective, but
sets out such facts as demonstrate that the party has no merits,
and that no amendment could be made which would avail him any
thing, or, in other words, nothing is left in the case that can be
mended. Gould on Pl. 514, § 39 1 Tidd, 331 ; Henderson v.
Foote, 3 Call, 248.
It is incidental circumstances like these, affecting the merits and
not adverted to always in decisions or elementary treatises, which
have governed most of the opposing cases, rather than a mere
technical, and in some degree arbitrary rule, without reference to
the merits, and which would bar a party claiming to possess them
from having them tried on a repleader or amendment, on complying with equitable terms.
In the case now under consideration, the plea comes under neither of these categories, neither confessing a cause of action, nor
appearing to be a sham or fictitious plea, nor disclosing enough to
show.the defendant to be without any good defence. On the contrary, a defence'appears, which the original defendant seems always

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

151

Garland v. Davis.

to have urged with great confidence as being good. Under these
circumstances, then, repleading or something equivalent would seem
proper to do justice between the parties, and to carry out the
principle of the statutes of jeofails, so as not to prevent a judgment on the merits, because some "slip," as Lord Mansfield calls
it, has happened on the part of the defendant in his plea. Rex v.
Philips, I Burr. 295 ; Tidd, 89.8 ; Gould on P. 508, §§ 31, 40.
If the right be not put in issue and may be, a ruling to permit it
seems reasonable. Staple v. Heyden, 6 Mod. 2.
The true meaning of these technical rules can be made rational
and consistent, if they are held to apply to eases where good
grounds are apparent for rendering final judgment. Then it may
well be rendered against him who committed the first 'material
fault in the pleadings; and which fault has not afterwards in any way
been cured.
But if no such grounds appear, in consequence of the imperfections of the pleas and verdict, final judgment cannot properly, be
rendered ; and the rules are inapplicable ; and the judgment below
should be retersed, so as to furnish an opportunity to remove
those imperfections and reach the justice o the case by amendments or repleaders. And so far from the party not being permitted to enjoy this. indulgence who committed the first fault, he
is the only one who need§ it,-and in whose behalf, under the liberal spirit of modem times, all statutes of jeofails are passed. Nor
can the opposite party suffer by this course in respect to the merits,
as they are left open. Or in reppect to cost and delay, as he
should be indemnified for them, in the manner before mentioned,
by equitable terms, for allowing any amendments.
In this view of the subject, it is of no consequence for which.
party the defective verdict was found, except at tim~s the fact in it
may be an indication of merits in that party who has the postea, so
far as that fact can affect the. merits. But in this case the fact
found was immaterial in relation to the merits, as already shown ;
and the object now is, to prevent such immaterialities from making
a final disposal of the case, -to
prevent substance from being
sacrificed to form, - and where merits may exist, to adopt such a
course as will present them to the court intelligibly, for a final adjudication of the real justice of the case.
To all this, in an advanced era of jurisprudence, it will hardly
do to repeat from some of the old books, that a party is for ever to
be barred eithpr for the badnessor the falsity of his plea, if it happens
to be imperfect and is found against him, though he has not confessed the declaration, nor stated any facts in his plea inconsistent
with merits.
Much more, too, is it proper, if not indispensable, in a case like
this, so defective on the record as not to justify any decision about
the merits, to adopt a course which shall not bar the due consid-

152

SUPREME COURT.
Garland v. Davis.

eration of them in the end, and which shall be for the benefit and
guide of the court even more than a party, so as to prevent a leap
in the dark, and which for these and other reasons shall let the
cause be reopened, and prepared and tried in a manner to bring
the whole of the merits legally before both the court and the jury.
Cro. Eliz. 245 ; 5 Hen. & Munf. 393 ; Baird & Co. v. Mattox,
1 Call, 257.
Considering the character and position of this tribunal, as one
of the last resort in administering justice, and considering the increased disposition of the age in which we live to eviscerate the
truth, and decide ultimately only on the real merits in controversy
between parties, or in the words of Justice Story (1 Story, 152,
in Bottomly and the United States), as to " technical niceties," considering " the days for such subtilties in a great measure passed
away," it seems a duty of our own motion to give all reasonable
facility to get the record in an intelligible and proper shape before
we render final judgment.
As proof that such a course is sometimes deemed proper, to
aid a court as well as a party, notwithstanding the technical rules
before mentioned, it is stated in Gould on Pl. 507, § 28, that
judgment may be arrested after verdict, " if the issue is immaterial, so that the court cannot discover, from the finding upon it,
§§ 23 and 22.
for which party judgment ought to be given."
So, though Gould lays down these rules before named, be says
(page 514, § 40), if a special plea show there may be a good
justification, though it has been badly pleaded, judgment must be
arrested, and a repleader awarded, as it appears a good issue
might be formed ; and when this is the case, " the ends of justice
require that an opportunity for forming such an issue should be afforded.". And in respect to objections in such cases to indulgence
to a party whose plea is bad, Gould, 508, says in a note:-" The
true answer to this inquiry appears to be, that the awarding a repleader in such case was originally rather an act of indulgence to
a party, who tendered an improper issue, than a matter of strict
right. An indulgence grounded on the presumption that the issue
was misjoined through the inadvertence and oversight of he pleaders, and that a farther opportunity to plead would probauly result
in a material issue decisive of the merits of the cause," &c.
There are also some very high precedents against the application
of-these technical rules in cases and circumstances like those now under consideration. Such was the case of Rex. v. Philip, 1 Burr.
302. The reasoning of Lord Mansfield on this whole subject is
directly in point, as well as the case itself, and contains that beautiful correction' by him of a much abused maxim, in which he says
it is the duty of a good judge to amplify justice rather than his jurisdictiofi, bonzi judicis est ampliarejustitiam,not jurisdictionern."
There, afteir verdict for the plaintiff, he allowed an amendment of

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

153

Garland r. Davis.

the plea on payment of c6sts, being satisfied that "the ends of
justice require that an opportunity for forming a proper issue be
allowed."
There are many other cases, some ancient and some modern;
which fully support the same conclusion. See Enys v. Mohun, 2
Strange, 847, and S. C., Barnardiston, 182, 220 ; Tryonv. Carter,
2 Strange, 994; Love v.- Wotton, Cro. Eliz. 245.
In Serjeant v. Fairfax, 1 Levinz, 32, the plea was defective as
not taking issue on enough, though it denied part'of what was material in the declaration. Verdict Was found for the plaintiff, This
is in substance the very case now under consideration. Counsel
contended, -"
When the issue is found against the pleader, judgment, shall be for the plaintiff; but if for him (the pleader), not.
But .Justice Twysden said, that if an improper issue is taken, and
verdict given thereon, judgment .shall be given thereupon, be it for
the plaintiff or defendant. 2 Cro. 575. But an immaterial issue
is where, upon the verdict, the court cannot know for whom to give
judgment, whether for the plaintiff or for the defendant, as in Rob.
175, and with him the chief justice and Wyndham wholly agreed,
and awarded a repleader."
"In Simonton v. Winter et al., 5 Peters, 141, the verdict was
for the plaintiff, and yet, the plea being bad, the court reiersed the
judgment, as the cause of action was not confessed in the plea,
and remanded the case with' an order for a venire de novo.
See also in point Green v. Baily, 5 Munford, 246, and Baird
& Co. v. Mattox, 1 Call, 257.
And'in 9 Wheaton, 729, the pleadings are not given, but Justice
Story said there was great irregularityand laxity in them, and "it
is impossible, without breaking down the best settled principles of
lawv, not to perceive that the very errors in the pleadings are of
themselves sufficient to justify a reversal of the jadgment and an
award of a repleader," andwithout " appropriate pleas," "it would
be difficult to ascertain what was to be tried or not-tried.".
See also Harrison et al. v. Nixon, 9"Peters, 48J.
All thht remains' is to consider the best form of carrying these
conclusions into effect.
In some of the cases before- cited, the court have not only reversed the judgment, but ordered a repleader. But in others, it is
said that this cannot 'be done after a writ of error. 6 Mod. .102
2 Keb. 769 ; Com. Dig. Pleaderand Verdict.
Such, probably, has always been the practice :in relatibn to-not
ordering it by the court below, after a writ of error is sued out,
till the case is again reopened ; but it was once not the practice in
the higher courts of error in England. See 2 Saund. 319 ; Holbech v. Bennett 2 Levinz, 12.
Nor is it the practice now in some of the higher courts in this
country.. In Green-v. Baily, 5 Munford, 251, judgment was re20

154

SUPREME COURT.
Garland v. Davis.

versed on the writ of error, the pleadings set aside after the plea,
and a repleader awarded.
The 22d section of the Judiciary Act, before referred to, expressly empowers " any court of the United States" "at any time
to permit either of the parties to amend any defect in the process
or pleadings." Lit. & Brown's ed. 91.
All know that a repleader is little more in substance than permitting an amendment.
But most of the precedents in this court allowing- amendments
after a writ of error are in maritime or admiralty proceedings, and
I have found none of those in the form of repleaders. In 4 Wheat.
64 (though one in admiralty, where less strictness prevails in pleading than at common law), Chief-Justice Marshall said, -" The
pleadings in this case are too informal and defective to pronounce
a final decree on the merits" ; and the judgment was therefore
reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to permit the
pleadings to be amended.
See also a like order in the Divina Pastora, 4 Wheat. 63,
and in case of the Edward, 1 Wheat. 264, and case of the Samuel,
1 Wheat. 13 ; Harrison et al. v. Nixon, 9 Peters, 483.
In cases at common law, the form is usually somewhat different.
In 5 Peters, 141, the form was suited to the case, and judgment not
only reversed, but a venire de novo ordered, and in United States v.
Hawkins, 10 Peters, 125, Justice Wayne says,- " A venire de
novo is frequently awarded in a court of error, upon a bill of exceptions to enable parties to amend,"- and "amendments may, in the
sound discretion of the court, upon a new trial, be permitted."
See further, 2 Wheat.,226 ; Barnes v. Williams, II Wheat. 416;
Bellows v. Hallowell & Augusta Bank, 2 Mason, 31 ; Peterson v.
United States, 2 Wash. C. C. 36.
See the form in England. Parker v. Wells, I D. & E. 783,
and Grant v. Astle, Doug. 922.
In Pollard v. Dwight, 4 Cranch, 432, the court said, let judgment "be reversed and the cause remanded for a new trial."
Mr. Lee prayed "with leave for the defendants below to
amend their pleadings."
The court said "that the court below had the power to grant
leave to amend, and this court could not doubt but it would do
what was right in that respect." Similar to this was the course in
Day v. Chism, 10 Wheat. 404.
And in United *Statesv. Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. 738, the court
not only reversed the judgment, and awarded a venire de novo, but
gave " directions also to allow the parties liberty to amend their
pleadings." So 9 Wheat. 540.
See on this further, Mar. Ins. Co. v. Hodgson, 6 Cranch, 218;
7ibid. 47, 497 ; 9 ibid. 244 ; 1 ibid. '261, 13 ; 10 ibid. 449; 4
ibid. 52 ; 16 Peters, 319 ; Moody v. Keener, 9 Porter, 252.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

155

Stockton et al. v. Bishop,

In conclusion, then, as by several cases in England the allowance of a repleader in courts of error seems to have gone into disuse in modern times, and as the practice in 'common law cases in
this tribunal, though otherwise in some of the States, has usually
been, not to direct either amendments or repleaders in cases like
these, but to reverse the judgment and remand the cause to the
court below for further proceedings there, we shall conform to that
practice in the present instance.
Let the judgment below be reversed, and the case remanded for
further proceedings.

LucIus W.

STOCKTON

AND DANIEL MOORE,

PLrINIFs

IN ERROR, V0.

HARRIET BIsEoP.
Where a count in a declaration is defective on account of dates being left blank,
but the party has pleaded and gone to trial, the presumption is that the proof

supplied the defect.
In an action on the case for injury sustained by the oversetting of a stagecoach, although the declaration does notset out the payment of any passage money, nor any
promise or undertaking on the part of the defendants to carry the plaintiff safely,
yet if it states that the plaintiff became6 a passenger for certain rewards to the defendants, and thereupon it was their duty to use due and proper care that the
plaintiff should be safely conveyed, and if the breach was well assigned, and
the cause went on to plea, issue, trial, and verdict, the defect in the declaration
is cured by the 32d section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
The "right of the cause and matter in law" being with the plaintiff in the court
below, the judgmeiit of that court must be affirmed.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for West Pennsylvania.
There was no bill of exceptions signed by the judge, and the
record presented the following appearance.
Among the rolls, records, and judicial proceedings of the Circuit
Court of the United States, in and for the Western District of
Pennsylvania, in the Third Circuit, may be found the following
words and figures, to wit Copy of Docket Entries.
McCandless, and
Harriet Bishop, a citizen of the
McClure & Biddle.
State of Ohio,
|
VS.
18
Darragh, Loomis,
Lucius W. Stockton and Dan- 1
Mahon & Washington.
iel Moore, citizens of Penn. J
Summons case, exit September 17th, 1842.
1842, November 4th, returned. Served by leaving a copy at
the dwelling-hous6 of. D. Moore, November 1st, 1842, and personally on L. W. Stockton, November 2d, 1842.

-

