JANUARY TERM, 1846.

709

Simpson et al. v. Wilson.

under the protection secured to their inventers by an enlightened
government.
Some estimate can be formed of the usefulness of the'present
patent, and its title to favor, when one machine is computed to perform the labor of planing and grooving in one day that would require fifty days by a man, and whhih is supposed to reduce near
seven tenths the expense of such work in every building where the
improved method is used, -as it ere long will be by the many
millions of our own population, and in time over the civilized
world. Every honest social system must shield such inventions,
and every wise one seeks undoubtedly to encourage them.
To be liberal, then, in the protection of patentees, is only to be
just towards the rights of property. To stimulate them in this and
other ways to greater exertions of ingenuity and talent is to increase the public wealth, and hasten the progress of practical improvements, as well as' of science. And to discountenance encroachments on their rights, and defeat piracies of their useful
labors, is calculated in .the end to better the condition of every
rank in society, and introduce wider and faster all the benefits of a
superior state of civilization and the arts.

AnDRnw P. SIDIPSON,

JosEPH FousyTr, AND BAGDAD MILLs, ArPEL.
LANTS, V. J.A Es G. WILsoN.

The decision of the court in the preceding case of Wilson v. Rousseau et al.,
namely, that when a patent is renewed under the act of 1836, an assignee under
the old patent has a right to continue the use of the patented machine, but not
to vend others, again affirmed.
An assignment of an exclusive right to use a machine, and to vend the same to
others for use, within a specified territory, authorizes the assignee to vend elsewhere, out of the said territory, the product of said machine.
'The restriction upon the assignee is ony that he shall use the machine within the
specified territory. There is none as to the sele of the product.

Tirs case came up on a certificate of division in opinion between the Judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Louisiana, sitting as a court of equity.
Wilson was the complainant below, who filed a bill, and obtained an injunction against Simpson, Forsyth, and Mills. After
sundry proceedings in the case, Forsyth put in a plea, and a rule
was obtained, that-the plaintiff should show cause why the injunction should not be dissolved. Upon argument, the court dismissed
the rule, and the case was set down for hearing by consent of parties ; the complainants not admitting the facts alleged in the plea,
but for the purpose of raising the questions of law which they-involved, and obtaining a speedy decision of the same.
VOL. IV.
H3

710

SUPREME COURT.
Simpson et al. V. Wilson.

Upon the argument, the division 6if opinion arose which will be
presently stated.
The facts in the case were these.
The patent for planing, &c., having been obtained by Woodworth
in 1828, as has been particularly mentioned in the report of the preceding case of Wilson v . Rousseau et al., Forsyth, one of the defendants below, became an assignee under that patent for all its rights within
the cduntyof Escambia, in West Florida. This took place in 1836.
Woodworth, the patentee, .having 'died, his administrator, in
1842, obtained a renewal of the patent under the act of 1836 ;
and in 1843 assigned to Wilson, the complainant below, all the
rights under the extended patent for the States of Louisiana, Alabama;, and the Territory of Florida.
On the 13th of April, 1844, the said Wilson instituted proceedings in equity, in the Circuit Coupt of Louisiana, against the defendants, on the ground that they infringed on his just rights b
setting up and putting in operation the said patented machines in
the Territory of Florida ; and by vending in New Orleans large
quantities of dressed lumber, plank, &c., the products of the machines there established.
In May, 1845, the cause caine up for bearing, as above stated,
Nvhen the following points were ordered to be certified to this court,
namely

"4J. G. WILSON V. SIMPSON ET AL. No. 1225.
"This case coming on to be heard on demurrer filed to the plea
of Joseph Forsyth, one of the defendants, set down for hearing by
consent, and the matters of law arising on said plea, the following
points became material to the decision, and being considered, the
court were divided in opinion on the following points: 4 1. Whether, 1y law, the extension and renewal of 'the said
patent, granted to William Woodworth, and obtained by William
W. Woodworth, his executor, inured to the benefit of said defendant, to the extent that said defendant was interested in said patent
before such renewal and extension.
"12.Whether, by law, the assignment of an exclusive right to
the defendant, by the original patentee, or those claiming under
*him, to use said machine, and to vend the same to others for
use, within the county of Escambia, in the Territory of West
Florida, did authorize said defendant to vend elsewhere than in said
county of Escambia, to wit, in the city of New Orleans, State of
Louisiana, plank, boards, and other materials, product of a machine
established and used within the said county of Escambia, in the
Territory of West Florida.
"Wherefore, upon the request of defendants' counsel, it is or.
dored and directed, that the foregoing points of law be certified for
the opinion of the Sunreme Court of the United States."

JANVUARY

TERM, 1846.

711

Simpson et al. v. Wi-lson.

The case was argued by .ir. Gilpin and Mr.. Westcolf, for the
defendants below, who were the appellants in this court, and byMr. Henderson and .Mlfr. R. Johnson, for Wilson.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The questions in this case come up on the certificate of a division of opinion in the court below. The judgment of this court"
in the previous case' of Wilson v. Rousseau et al., upon the second
question certified in' that case, disposes of the first question certified here, and is answered accordingly.
The second question certified involves the point, whether or not
the assignment of -an exclusive right to make dnd use, and to vend
to others, planing-machines', within.a given territory only, authorizes
the assignee to vend elsewhere, out of the said territory, 'the plank,
boards, and other materials, the product of said machines.
The court have no doubt but that it does; and that the restriction in the assignment is to be construed as applying solely to the
using of the machine. There is no restriction, as to place, of the
sale of the product. Certificate accordingly to court below.
Order.
This cause came on tQ be heard, on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Louisiana, and on the points and questions on which the judges
of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which.were
certified to this court for its opinion agreeably to the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court, 1. That, by law, the extension and renewal of the said patent
granted to William Woodworth, and obtained by William' W.
-Woodworth, his executor, did not inure to the benefit of said defendant to the extent that said defendant was interested in said patent before such renewal and extension ; but the law saved to persons in the use of machines at the time the extension takes effect
the right to continue the use.
2. That an assignment of an exclusive figbt to use a machine,
and to vend the same to others for use, within a specified territory,
does authorize an assignee to vend elsewhere, out of the said
territory, plank, boards, and other materials, the product of such
machine.
It is therefore now here ordered and decreed by this court,
that it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

