JANUARY TERM

1846.

12

Gagrard v. Lessee of Reynolds et al.

DAxnm GAiam, PiLnmir

iN ERROR, V. LES=E

OF HENRI REY-

NOLDS XT AL.

In an action of ejectment, where two ofthe plaintiff's lessors were mariedwomen,
and the demise was laid in the declaration to have been on the Ist of January,
1815, it was necessary to establish to the satisfaction of the jury, that the marmage
took place before that day, inasmuch as their husbands were stated to have joined in the demise.
Two depositions, taken in 1818, were given in evidence, one of which stated the
death of the father of the women to have taken place " upwards of twenty years
ago," and the other "about twenty-eight years ago." Both of the depositions
when enumerating the children of the deceased, mentioned the fact of the mar.
riage, without saying when such marriage took place.
In giving its instrucuons to the jury, the court remarked that "1the depositions
should be favorably construed." After retiring, the jury returned into court and
inquired what was meant by the instruction that the "depositions should be favorably construed," when the court informed them, that " where a suit was
broughtsafer
by A.
as man
and wife,
and proving
a witnesstheproved
them
manthey
and were
wife
shortly
theand
anuitB.was
brught,
without
time at
which
intermarried2 it might well be inferred that they were man and wife whien the
instituted; and if there was an ambiguty in the deposition of William
was(the
suit
Rawle
witess), it was in the power of the jury to find that the two femes
covert bad intermarried before the 1st of January, 1815."
The
were on
further
told, of
that
depositions
been for
referred
court,
on jury
a motion,
the part
the the
defendat,
for a had
nonsuit,
want toof the
proof
of
heirhip and intermarriage of the daughters qf Reynolds, at the date of"the demise,
1 January,
apndthe
that it seee to theheirs
court
William
Rawle
witness)
referred 1815;
to
of that
Reynolds
at the
time(the
of
his death, and not at the time the de.oition was taken, and refused the nonsuit; but the jury were not bound hy the constructio
n
by the court, end
could give th deposition any constrction they saw prper."
No excepton havng been taken to the opinion of the court overrung the motion
for a nonsuit, the question whether, as matter of law, there was any evidence to
be submitted to the ,jury, goiug to establish the intermarriage at or before the
time fathe demise litd in the declaration, was not before this court.
And in the submission to the jury hi"the question of fact, whether or not the evidence proved the marriage -before that time, there was no interference with the
province of the jury, or violation of any rule of law, the question having been
left open for thi finding:
r
There was, therefore, no error in the proceedings of the court below.
THE facts in this case are set forth in the opinion of the court.

The case was argued by .ir. Crittenden, for the plaintiff in error, and ,Mr..Morehead, or the defendants.
Mr. Justice NELSON "delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Kentucky, bringing up for review certain instructions given to the jury on the trial of an action of ejectnent,
brought by the defendant in error against the plaintiff in error, and
in which the former obtained the verdict.
The action was brought to recover possession of a large tract
of land situate and lying in the State of Kentucky, to which the
lessors of the plaintiff claimed title as the heirs of James Reynolds.
the original patentee of the tract.

124

SUPREME COURT.
Garrard v. Lessee of Reynolds et al.

Two of them were daughters of the patentee and .femes cov ert,
with whom their husbands, Cutbush and Reese, had joined in the
* action, and the demises in the several counts in the declaration
were laid jointly and not severally, and were of the date of 1 January, 1815.
Several questions of law were raised by the counsel for the defendant below, in the course of the trial, and were disposed of by
the court, and exceptions taken, but as they have not been relied
on here as grounds of error, it is unimportant to notice them more
particularly.
The suit was commenced in the latter part of December, 1815,
and continued from term to term, until the November term of the
court in 1842, when it was tried, and a verdict found for the
plaintiff.
Among other testimony introduced on the part of the lessor5 of
the plaintiff to establish their title to the tract, and right to recover
the possession, were the depositions of William Rawle and TI omas Cumpston, both of the city of Philadelphia, duly taken beftre a
competent officer, in May, 1818, the mat6rial parts of whicI are
as follows.
Wilham Rawle deposed, "That he was well acquainted with
James Reynolds, late of the city of Philadelphia, carver and
gilder, who lived many years in a house belonging to the wifa of
'this affiant, as a tenant, m the city of Philadelphia ; that, to the
best of this afflant's recollection ard belief, the said James Reynolds left five children at the time of his death, which was upwards
of twenty years ago. The names of the children living ai the
time of his death were James, Henry, Aqnne, and Elizabeth, one
of whom married Edward Cutbush, and the other James Reese,
and Sarah, who, as far as affiant's knowledge extends, was not
married ; and this deponent believes the said James, HEnry,
Anne, Elizabeth, and Sarah were the heirs at law of the said
James Reynolds, deceased."
Thomas Cumpston deposed, " That he was acquainted with
James Reynolds, late of the city of Philadelphia ; that he died
about twenty-eight years ago ; that he left two sons, to wit,
James Reynolds and Henry Reynolds, and three daughter,;, to
wit, Anne Reynolds, now married to Edward Cuthush, Elizabeth,
now married to James Reese, and Sarah Reynolds, whom this
deponent believes to be the heirs at law."
When the testimony closed, the following among other ins ructions were prayed for by the counsel for the defendant, namel-, " That the plaintiff cannot recover on the demise of Cutbush', unless the jury shall find from the evidence that he was married to
the daughter of the said patentee, Reynolds, on or before the date
of his demise, to wit, the 1st January, 1815 ; nor can the plaintiff
recover on, the demise* of Reese, unless they shall find he was

JANUA.R.Y TERM, 1846.

125

Garrard v. Lessee of Reynolds et al.

married to another daughter of the said patentee, at or before
the same day ; nor can the plaintiff recover on any of the demises
in the declaration, unless the jury shall find from the evidence that
the lessor, James Reese, was married as aforesaid, on or before
1 January, 1815 (he having joined in the demise as laid in each
of the several counts in the declaration)."
The record further states, that the instructions thus prayed for
on the part of the defendant were given, " but the court remarked to the jury, that the depositions should be favorably construed."
After the cause was thus submitted upon this branch of it, the
jury returned into court, and inquired "what was meant by the
instruction, 'but the depositions should be favorably construed,'
when the court informed them, that where a suit was brought by
A. and B., as man and wife, and a witness proved them man and
wife shortly after the suit was brought, without proving the time at
which they were intermarried, it might well be inferred that they
were man and wife when the suit was instituted ; and if there was
an ambiguity in the deposition of William Rawle (the witness), it
was in the power of the jury to find that the two femes covert had
intermarried before the 1st January, 1815."
The jury were further told, ' that the depositions had bden referred to the court, on a motion on the 'part of the defendant for
a nonsuit, for want of proof of heirship and intermarriage of the
daughters of Reynolds at the date of the demise, 1 January, 1815 ;
and that it seemed to the court that William Rawle, the witness,
referred to the persons who were the heirs of Reynolds at the
time of his death, and not at the time the deposition was taken,
and refused the nonsuit ; but that the jury were not boufnd by the
construction given by the court, and could give the deposition any
construction they saw proper."
This is the substance of the case, as presented on the record, so
far -as the questions before us are involved, and upon which we
are called upon to decide.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error contends, that the testimony of Rawle and Cumpston, as detailed in their depositions,
and which is alone relied on by the defendants in error as proving
the intermarriage of Anne and Elizabeth, two of the heirs of the
patentee, with Cutbush and Reese, refers,'and upon a fair constuction should be limited, to the time when they were takn, -to
wit, the 4th and 2d May, 1818, and cannot be properly regarded
as referring to the time of the demise laid in the declaration, to wit,
the 1st January, 1815 ; and that if so, 'hen the testimony did not
lay a sufficient foundation to warrant the inference or presumption
by the jury of the fact of intermarriage at the latter date, which
fact is essential to maintain the action.
Whereas, the counsel for the defendant in error insists that one

126

SUPREME COURT.
Garrard v. Lessee ofReynolds et al.

or both the depositions are open to a construction that affords direct proof of the intermarriage as far back as the time of the de th
of the patentee, and, of course, before the date of the demise ; or,
if not direct proof, that the testimony, at least, is sufficiently full
and. comprebensive to authorize the jury in finding the intermarriage as a conclusion of fact as early as that date.
These are substantially the adverse positions held and maintaned by tfe respective counsel upon the point in question between
them.
This court is not called upon to express an opinion, whether, as
matter of law, there was any evidence to be submitted to the j~iy,
going to establish the intermarriage at or before the time mentined ; because, although this ground was taken by the counsel in the
course of the trial below, on a motion for a nonsuit, and was overruled, no exception was taken to the decision. The point, therefore, is not before us.
Both parties there assumed, that the inference or presumption of
intermarriage or not at the date of the demise was one of fact, depending upon the weight of the evidence? such as it was, and belonged properly to the province of the jury, and should be subrr itted to them. And the only question, therefore, here is, whether
the court, in their instruction on the submission of the case to the
jury, violated any rule of law, foi which error will lie.
We have, accordingly, examined the instructions given on fis
aspect of the case with attention, and are satisfied, that, upon ihe
strictest analysis to 'which they may be properly subjected, there
is no well founded objection to them.
It is true, after advising the jury in accordance with the prayer
of the defendant below, that it was necessary for the plaintiff to
establish the intermarriage at the time of the demise, in order to
entitle him to the verdict, the court added, that the depositions
given in evidence for this purpose should be favorably construed.
But if we were to concede any thing exceptionable in this mcde
of construing the depositions, the error was sufficiently explaired
and corrected when the inquiry was made by the jury as to ihe
force and effect to be given to the observation of the court. In
effect, they were then told that the depositions, especially RawlE's,
left the question at issue open for their consideration, dependng
upon the weight to be given to the facts therein testified to, -nd
upon which it was competent for them to find for the plaintiff;
which, in judgment of law, was nothing more than the assertion of
a right in the jury that had already been .virtually implied in he
case from the' concession of both parties, that the question belonged to that tribunal to determine, according to their view of he
evidence,
Ind~ed, instead of improperly interfering with the province of
the jury, the court seems to have been particularly guarded against

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

127

Brandon v. Loftus et al.

leaving any undue impression upon their minds as to the weight and
effect of the evidence from opinions that had fallen from it in the
course of the trial. For, after referring to the view taken in their
hearing on the motion for a monsuit, in which the court were obliged to express an opinion as to the tendency of the evidence on the
depositions, the jury were expressly advised, that they were not
bound by the construction given by the court, but could give such
construction as, in their judgments, the facts would warrant.
Even if an opinion had been expressed, in the course- of 'submitting the case, more pointedly, as to the bearing and tendency of the
evidence, than is to be found in this case in the record, after the
jury were advised, that they'were not intended as instructions, or to
be binding upon them, -- that the question was one of fact and construction, which they must consider and determine for themselves, we are not aware of any ground of reason or authority upon which
error'could be predicated for an interference with the rights of the
jury, but the contrary.
The cases of Evans v. Eaton (7 Wheat. 426), and Carver v.
Jackson, ex Dem. of Astor and others (4 Peters, 80, 81), need
only be referred to in confirmation of the position.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the judgment of the Circuit
Court should be affirmed.

GrxARD C., BRANDON,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. RALPH W.
AxD FLOYD WHITEHEAD, DEFENDANTS.

LoFTus

Under the statutes of Mississippi, providing for the admission of the evidence of a
notary public with regard to a protested note, directing the form ofproceeding
which the notary shall pursue, and providing further that justices of the peace
may, in certain cases, perform the duties of notaries public, itwas proper to read
in evidence the original paper of the acting notary, although the record was made
out at a time subsequent to that when the protest was actually made.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
It was an action brought by the indorsee against the indorser of
a promissory note, under the following circumstances.
On the 12th of December, 1838, the following note was executed :-

Fort Atdams, December 12th, 1838.
On the first day of-January, A. D. 1841, we jointly and severally
promise to pay Gerard C. Brandon, or order, the sum of two thousand six hundred and sixty-seven dollars, value received, without
plea or offset, payable and negotiable at the Planters' Bank of the
State of Mississippi5 at Natchez.
(Signed,)
WILLIAM C. COLLINS,
JOHN C. COLLINS.
(Indorsed,) "Gerard C. Brandon," " Loftus & Whitehead."

