JANUARY "TERM, 1846.

2i5

Agricultural Bank of Mississippi et al. v. Rice et al.

in insUrance companies ; and so far from its being unconscientious
to enforce them, when their existence is well known, and when the
risk has been increased without conforming to them, it is the only
and just safeguard of all coicerned in such 'instititnnr
Let the judgment below be affirmed.
Mr, Chief-Justice TANEY, being sick, did not sit in this
cause.

THE AGRICuLTURAL BANx OF MISSISSrPI AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS
IN ERROR V. CHARLEs RICE AND MARY HIS WIFE, AND MARTHA
PHIPPS, DEFENDANTS.
A bond for the conveyance ofland does not transfer the legal title, so as to serve as
a defence in an action of ejectment, and such a bond, when signed by married
women, neither confers a legal nor equitable right upon the obligees.

In order to convey by grant, the party possessing the right'must be the grantor,
and use apt and proper words to convey to the grantee.
If, therefore, t&e title to land is in married women, and a deed for the land recites
the names of the husbands, as grantors, purporting to convey in right of their
wives, the deed is insufficient to convey the title of the wives.
Nor is such a deed made effective by its being signed and sealed by the wiv.es. The
interest of the husbands is conveyed by it, but nothing more.
A receipt ofmoney, subsequently, by the female grantors, does not pass the legal
title, nor give effect to a deed, which, as to them, was utterly void.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
It was an ejectment brought by the defendants. in error against
the Agricultural Bank and others, to recover two undivided third
parts of a lot of ground in the city of Natchez, bounded as follows :frontin g on Main Street, between Canal and Wall Streets (formerly
Front and Second Streets), beginning on Main Street, at the comer
of a lot owned by the heirs of Samuel Postlethwaite, on which a
large new cotton-warehouse has been erected ; thence along the
northwestern side of lain Street, west, to the line of the lot bequeathed by Adam Bower, deceased, to his widow, now Mrs.
Pendleton ; thence north, along the eastern line of the said lastmentioned lot, to the back line of the said premises, where the same
bounds on the property formerly owned by Elijah Bell; thence
along said last-mentioned line, to the line of the lot belonging to the
heirs of said Postlethwaite; and along said last-mentioned line to
the place of beginning, on lain Street ; and being {be same property now known as the City Hotel, in Natchez.
The plaintiffs below claimed the lot as the heirs and devisees of
Adam Bower, deceased,-who died seized of the pr~perty, and the
only question in the case was, whether or not they had conveyed
away their title in the manner prescribed by law.
29
voL. Xv.

226

SUPREME COURT.
Agricultural Bank of Mississippi et al. v. Rice

et al.

The circumstances are so fully set forth in the bill of exceptions,
that a recital of the bill will be sufficient. The cause was tried at
May term, 1843, when the jury, under the direction of the court,
found a verdict for the plaintiffs.
Bill of Exceptions tendered by the Defendant#.
Be it remembered, that on the trial of this cause, and while the
.same was before the jury, the said plaintiffs, by their counsel, to
maintain and prove the said issue on their part, gave in evidence
and proved that one Adam Bower (now deceased), in his lifetime,
previous to the year 1833, was seised in fee of a certain lot or parcel of land in the said declaration, and hereinafter described. That
on the 16th of April, 1833 ;the said Adam Bower, being so seized
of said land, died, leaving three daughters, to wit, Martha Phipps,
wife of William M. Phipps; Mary Haile, wife of William.R. Haile;
and Sarah Bower, a feme sole, his heiresses, who took and inherited under the last will and testament of the said Adam Bower the
said fee of the sairi land. That the said Martha, Mary, and Sarah,
at the decease of the said Adam Bower, were infants under the age
of twenty-one years. That since the death of the said Adam
Bower, the said William M. Phipps and William R. Haile have
both departed this life, and that since the death of the said William
R. Haile, Mary Haile, his widow, has intermarried with Charles
Rice, one of the plaintiffs. That at the time of the commencement
of this suit) the said defendants were in possession of said premises,
'holding the same adversely.
The plaintiffs' counsel here rested.
'Whereupon, the counsel for the said defendants, to maintain and
prove the said issue on their part, gave in evidence, that after the
death of the said Adam Bower, and while the fee of the said land
was still vested in the said Martha, Mary, and Sarah, the said Noah
Barlow and one Henry S. Holton contracted with the said heirs
and their husbands aforesaid for the sale and purchase of the said
lands, and in consideration that the'said heirs would 'make and insure to them a good and valid title in fee simple to the said land,
they agreed to give and pay to the said heirs for the same the sum
of $ 40,000; 56,000 whereof should be paid in hand on the delivery of possession, and the residue should be secured to be paid in
instalments, to be specified, in promissory notes, to be executed by
the said Holton, and indorsed by the said Barlow, and by a mortgage on the said land. That the said Holton and Barlow, in pursuance of the said contract, paid the said $ 5,000 to the said heirs,
and delivered to them twelve promissory notes for $ 2,916'661 each,
all bearing date the 16th day of April, 1835, and payable as follows :
three of said notes in twelve months, three others in two years,
three others in three years, and the other three in four yeais from the
date thereof; all made by the said Henry S. I olton, and indorsed

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

227

Agricultural Bank of Mississippi et al. r. Rice et al.

by the said Noah Barlow. And the said heirs, upon receipt of the
said notes and the said sum of $ 5,000, delivered to the said
Henry S. Holton and Noah Barlow possession of the said land; with
the tenements and appurtenances, and at the same time executed
to the said Holton and Barlow a bond for title, in and by which said
bond the said heirs agreed and bound themselves, and their heirs,
to make, execute, and deliver, after duly acknowledging the same,
a full and complete general warranty deed of all said premises and
appurtenances, buildings and furniture, to the said Holton and Barlow, their heirs and assigns, thereby covenanting a good and inde'feasible title to said lot of ground to said Holton and Barlow, their
heirs and assigns, against all persons, as soon as a surveyor can be
had. to make a survey of the premises to ascertain the exact boundaries. That the said bond was executed by the said Sarah, as
Sarah Gibson, and by her husband, David H. Gibson, the said
Sarah having intermarried with the said David H. Gibson between
the drafting of the said bond and its execution; which said bond is
in the words and figures following, to wit Agreement entered into and executed this
day of April, 1835,
between William M. Phipps and
his wife, William R. Haile
and
'his wife, and Sarah Bowers, parties of the one part, and
Noah Barlow And Henry S. Holton, parties of the other'or second
part; the above-named parties of the first part, for the consideration
hereinafter named, agree this day to deliver to said parties of the
second part full possession of the tenements, tavern, stables, and
other buildings occupied and owned by the late Adam Bower,
and heretofore also occupied since his death -by the said William
M. Phipps, and the lot or parcel of ground upon which the same
stands, being on the north side of Main Street, between Canal and
Wall Streets, in said city of Natchez ; and also the furniture, kitchen and household, as well as that about the stables, and belonging
to and in said tavern, buildings, and said premises ; and said parties of the first part do further, for the consideration hereinafter
named, agree and bind themselves, and their heirs, to make, execute, and deliver, after duly acknowledging the same, a full and
complete general warranty deed of all said pkemises and appurtenances, buildings and furniture, to said parties of the second part,
their heirs and assigns, thereby conveying said lot of ground, appurtenances, and buildings, and said furniture, and warranting a good
and indefeasible title thereto to said parties of the second part,
their heirs and assigns, against all persons, as soon as a surveyor
can be obtained to make a survey of said premises, so as to ascertain the exact exterit and'boundaries of said premises. In consideration of which, said parties of the second part agree to pay this
day to said parties of the first part five thousanhd dollars, and upon
the execution and delivery of the said deed to them as aforesaid,

228

SUPREME COURT.
Agricultural Bank of Mississippi et al. v. Rice at al.

-they, the said parties of the second part, their executors or administrators, will execute and deliver to said parties their promissory
notes for thirty-five thousand dollars, payable in one, two, three,
and four years, in the following manner, - to be secured by a mortgage executed by said patties of the second part, and their wives,
on said premises, to wit :
WM. M. PHIPPS.
[L. a.]
MARTHA PHIPPS. [L. s.]
W.
R. HAILE.
[L. a.]
MARY
HAILE.
[L. a.]
D. H. GIBSON.
SARAH .GIBSON.

[L.

a.]

[L. a.]

That-the said bond, though appareutly incomplete, was executed
as complete, and the notes were secured by mortgage by said Holton and Barlow, according to said contract. That after the execution and delivery of said bond and notes, and when the said Holton and Barlow were in 4uiet possession of the premises, they
handed said bond to their counsel, with instructions to have a deed
drawn in compliance with said-bond, and on or about the 14th of September, 1835, received from their counsel an instrument in writing,
or deed, without examining the same, all parties supposing it to be
correct, and in conformity with their directions ; that the said deed
was executed and delivered on the said 14th of September, 1835, by
the said heirs and their respective husbands. And it was intended
by said heirs to convey to said Holton and Barlow the'complete title
of the said heirs and their husbands in said land, which said deed
is in the words and figures following, to wit : This indenture, made the 14th day of September, in the year
of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-five, between
William M. Phieps in right of his wife Martha, William R. Haile
in right of his wife Mary, and David H. Gibson in right of his wife
Sarah, legal heirs and representatives of Adam Bower, deceased,
of the county of Adams and State of Mississippi, of the one
part, and Noah Barlow and Margaret his wife, and Henry S. Holton and Theoda is wife, of the same place, of the other part, witnesseth : that the said partibs of the first part, for and in consideration of the sum of forty thousand dollars,. to them in hand paid by
the said parties of the second part, at or before the sealing and delivering of these presents, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, and the said parties of the second part, their heirs, executors, and administrators for ever released therefrom, by these presents have granted, bargained, sold, conveyed, and confirmed, and
by these presents do grant, bargain, sell, convey, and confirm unto
the said parties of the second part, their heirs and assigns for ever,
all that certain lot or parcel of ground situate in the city of Natch-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

229

Agricultural Bank of Mississippi et al. r. Rice et al.

ez and State aforesaid, fronting on Main Street, between what
were, before the confusion of names produced by the wisdom of
the city council, Front and Second Streets, which said lot is bounded and described as follows, to wit :- beginning on MaiA Street,
at the corner of a lot now owned by the" heirs of Samuel Postlethwaite, on which a large new cotton-warehouse has been erected by
Harriett
, along the northwestern side of Main Street, west, to
the line of the lot bequeathed by Adam Bower, deceased, to his
widow, now Mrs. Pendleton ; thence north, along the eastern line
of said last-mentioned lot, to the back line of the premises hereby
conveyed, where the same bounds on the property of Elijah Bell ;
thence along said last-mentioned line to the line of the lot belonging to the heirs of said Postlethwaite ; and along said last-mentioned line to the place of beginning on Main Street ; the lot hereby conveyed being the large tavern establishment occupied by said
Bower in his lifetime, and since his death by the said William M.
Phipps ; also, all the household and kitchen furniture, and apparatus; and utensils about said tavern, stables, or other buildings on
said lot ; together with all and singular, the appurtenances, hereditaments, privileges, and advantages whatsoever unto the above described premises belonging, or in any wise appertaining ; and also
all the estate, right, title, interest, and property, and claim whatsoever, either at law or in equity, of them the said parties of the first
part, of, in, and to the same ; to have and to hold the above granted, bargained, and described premises, with the appurtenances,
unto the said parties of the second part, their heirs and assigns,
for ever ; and the said parties of the first part, for themselves, their
heirs, executors, and administrators, do covenant, grant, promise,
and agree to and with the said parties of the second part, their
heirs and assigns, that they, the said parties of the first part, and
their heirs, the above described and hereby granted premises, and
every part thereof, with the appurtenances, unto the said parties of
the second part, and their heirs and assigns, against the said parties of the first part, and against all persons or
claiming, or to
claim said premises, or' any part thereof, shall and will warrant,
and by these presents for ever defend.
In witness whereof, the said parties of the first have hereunto
set their hands and seals, this day and year above written.
WM. M. PHIPPS.
[L. s.]
MARTHA PHIPPS.
[L. s.]
WILLIAM R. HAILE. [L. s.]
MARY HAILE.
[L. s.]
DAVID H. GIBSON.
[L. s.]
SARAH GIBSON.
[L. s.]
Signed, sealed, and delivered in the presence of
N W. CALMES, J. P.
VOL. IV.

T

SUPREME COURT.

230

Agricultural Bank of Mississippi e t al. v. Rice et al.
THE STATE OF

Mississippi, .. dams county :

Personally appeared before the undersigned, justice of the peace
for said county, William M. Piipps and Martha his wife, and
William R. Haile and Mary Haile his wife, and David H. Gibson
and Sarah Gibson his wife, and acknowledged that they signed,
sealed, and delivered the within deed on the day and year and for
the purposes therein contained. And Martha Phipps,' Sarah Gibson, and Mary Haile, wives of William M. Phipps, William R.
Haile, and David H. Gibson, having been examined separate and
apart from their husbands, and acknowledged that they signed, sealed, and delivered the same as their act and deed, free of fears,
threats, or compulsion of their said husbands.
Given under my hand and seal, this 15th day of September,
N. W. CALMES, J. P.
1835.
Received for record, 15th September, 1835.
F. WOOD, Clerk.
By S. WOOD, D. Clark.
.qdams county :
I, Fleming Wood, clerk of the Probate Court for said county,
do hereby certify thaf the within deed -, recorded in my office, in
book W of the record of deeds, pages o00 and 301.
Witness my hand and seal of office, this 16th day of September, anno domini 1835.
F. WOOD, Clerk.
[L. S.]
By S. WOOD, D. Clerk.
STATE OF MISSISSIPPI,

That in the said deed. by a mistake of the draftsman, the said
heirs, Martha, Mary, and Sarah were not named as grantors, but
that only their several husbands are so named, although said deed
is executed by said heirs and their husbands.
That on the 14th day of September, 1835, on the delivery of
said deed, the said Holton and Barlow executed, acknowledged,
and delivered to the said heirs and their several husbands a deed
of mortgage on said land, to secure the payment of said notes according to said contract. and the said notes and mortgages were accepted by said heirs and their husbands. That at the time of the
marriage of the said Mary Haile with the said Charles Rice, in the
year 1838, said Holton and Barlow were in quiet and peaceable
possession of the said land, and ignorant of any objection "to their
title. That the buildings on said land, at the time of the purchase,
having been destroyed by fire, the said Holton and Barlow rebuilt
the'same at an expense of $ 100,000, which improvements were
made with the full knowledge of said heirs, and without any objection on their part. And that the said Martha Phipps and Mary
Haile, now Mary ,Rice, by accepting and receiving payments of
money from the said Holton and Barlow upon the said notes and

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

231

Agricultural Bank of Mississippi et al. v. Rice et al.

mortgage, during the time between the death of the said Phipps
and Haile, and the last marriage of the said Mary, and when the
said Martha and Mary were of full age, which said payments were
proved to have been made and received, have further ratified and
confirmed the said bond and the said deed.
That said Holton and Barlow, principally by reason of such expenditures, became largely indebted to the Agricultural Bank and
the Planters' Bank, two of the defendants, and to secure that indebtedness, the said Barlow, on the 5th of May, 1838, executed to
them a good and valid deed of mortgage, conveying to them his
undivided interest in said premises.
That the said Holton, in February, 1839, sold and conveyed
his interest in said premises to the said Demon B. Spencer, one of
the defendants ; that said Spencer, in consideration of the terms of
his purchase from Holton, did, on the 27th of July, 1839, convey
the same, by a good and valid mortgage, to the said Planters' Bank.
That the said Agricultural Bank and the said Planters' Bank are
now in possession of said premises as mortgagees, and by virtue of
a good and valid quitclaim deed from the said Sarah Gibson and
her husband David H. Gibson.
That the said Holton and Barlow, and those claiming under
them, were unmolested in their possession, and unapprized of any
supposed objection to their title. That they have paid the whole
of said purchase money.
Which testimony, as set forth herein on both sides, was all the
testimony in the cause.
The counsel for the said defendants here offered to read in evidence the said bond for title, and the said deed herein before mentioned, in connection with the foregoing proofs.
But to the reading of the same in evidence the said counsel for
the said plaintiffs objected, because be says, that atthe days of the
dates of the said bond and of the said deed the said heirs, Martha, Mary, and Sarah, were under covrture, and were infants under the age of twenty-one years, so that the said bond and the said
deed are absolutely void. The said judge did then and there declare and deliver his opinion, that the said objection, so taken by
the said counsel for the said plaintiffs, ought to be allowed ; that
the said bond and the said deed ought not to be admitted in evidence, and did accordingly decide that the same should not be read
in evidence on the part of the said defendants ; to which said opinion of the said judge, the said counsel for the said defendants did
then and there, in due form of law, except, before the jury retired
from their box, and prayed that the said exceptions might be signed, and sealed, and made a part of the record. And it is accordingly done.
S. J. GHOLSON. [L. s.1
alfay
24th, 1843.

232

SUPREME COURT.
Agricultural Bank of Mississippi et al. v. Rice et al.

To review this decision of the court below, the case was brought
up to this court.
It was argued by ,Mr. Mason (Attorney-General), for-t plaintiffs in error, and Mr. Thomas J. Johnston and Mr. Crittenden,
for the defendants in error.
JMr. Mason- for the plaintiffs in error, stated the case, and then
proceeded.
I. The title, bond, and deed were admissible in evidence. The
common law imparted to the husband, as a necessary incident to
the seisin he acquired of the wife's freehold estate by the marriage,
a power, by alienation, of converting her interest in it to a mere
right. Hence a conveyance by him cf the fee operated a discontinuance, and ejectment would not lie-; although, by the statute of
32 Hen. 8, ch. 28, ยง 6,- explained by the statute of 34 and 35
Hen. 8, the act of the husband alone was not permitted to have this
effect, and a right of entry was reserved -to the wife, and to her
heirs, on the death of- the husband, it has never been questioned
that she might, after the termination of the coverture, confirm her
husband'- deed. 1 Roper on Husband and Wife, 54, 55.
The deed from the husband is only a link in the chain of title,
and was necessarily admissible, in connection with other testimony,
to establish an act of confirmation by the wife, when sole and free
from disability.
The reason assigned by the court below was wholly insufficient;
neither the infancy nor the coverture of the femes covert necessarily excluded the deed.
There are many cases in which the deed of a married woman
binds her, without confirmation, when sole, although, at its date,
she was an infant ; and the deed of a husband for his wife's real
estate may be confirmed, and pass the title. Douglas's Rep. 53;
Cowper's Rep. 202; 2 Peere Wins. 126. The deed from the
husband is the basis, or first link, in the chain of title, and ought
not to have been excluded. If the bond and deed bad been admitted as evidence, and no sufficient confirmation by the wife,
when sole, had been shown, it would have been competent for the
court to charge the jury as to the sufficiency of these instruments
in law to bind the wife's interests.
The court erred in excluding evidence which of itself was insufficient, but which, nevertheless, was competent.
II. It is submitted, that it appears on the record, notwithstanding
this exclusion of the first link in defendants' paper title, that the
female plaintiffs had ratified and confirmed the bona fide sale of the
fee simple property after their disability was removed.
1. They received and gave acquittances of the purchase-money.
They cannot be permitted to deny knowledge of the consideration

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

233

Agricultural Bank of Mississippi et al. v. Rice et al.
for which the payments were this made. They had signed both
bond and deed. The deed was acknowledged by them, and their
relinquishment made privily, with full explanation, and the deed was
of record.
2. The tenement on the premises was destroyed by fire, and
they, free from disability, stood by and permitted the grantees of
their husbands and themselves to erect buildings thereon, at a cost
Far exceeding the purchase-money, without interposing, by any
warning that the title made was objected to and its confirmation
denied ; such acts, on the part of persons free from disability, ought
to be regarded as confirmatory of a defective bonO fide conveyance;
and the parties, although they be females, will not be permitted
to recover the property thus improved without objection on their
part, and for which they have themselves received the full payment
of the purchase money.
III. The deed is the act of the femes covert; they are parties
to it, executed it, and the estate granted and intended to be conveyed was their property. The deed is between the legal heirs
of Adam Bower, deceased, of the first part.. Martha, wife of
Phipps, Mfary, wife of Haile, and Sarah, wife of Gibson, were the
children and heirs of Bower. They signed the deed, and their renunciAtion was taken in substantialconformity with the law of Mississippi, and the thing granted was their inheritance. The phraseology employed is not material. A deed by an attorney in fact is
valid, whether he signs as B. W., attorney for R. C. ; or R. C.,
by B. W., his attorney. 4 Hen. & lun. 184.
The claim of title set up by two of these females, now that they
are married to other husbands, is sustained by the most refined and
technical reasoning. The printed argument of ,Mr.
Johnston affords
a specimen of this.
It is not denied, that, to bind a married woman-by a deed executed with her husband during coverture, she must have acknowledged it in substantial conformity with the terms of the statute.
The requisites are, 1. A. previous acknowledgment made by her, on a private examination, apart from her husband.
2. That she signed, sealed, and delivered the same as her voluntary act, freely, without any fear or compulsion of her husband.
3. And a certificate thereof, written on or under the said deed
of conveyance, signed by the judge or justice before whom it was
taken.
The statute of Mississippi does not prescribe the form of the
certificate. The guards thrown around the rights of married women are contained in these requisites, and the deed is good and
binding, if they have been substantially observed.
In Virginia there is a similar statute, with an additional section,
prescribing the form of the wife's acknowledgment. Tucker, in
VOL. IV.
30
T*

234

SUPREME COURT.
Agricultural Bank of Mississippi et al. V. Rice et al.

his Commentaries, vol. 1, tit. Deeds of Feme Covert, p. 267, after
referring to these provisions of the Virginia statutes, remarks :"Here we see that the object of the law is to ascertain, by a
privy examination of the wife, apart frown her husband, whether, in
the execution of the deed disposing of her rights, she exercises
that free will which is of the essence of all contracts. This is
effected by an examination in court by one of the judges thereof,
or in vacation by two justices of the peace."
(One is sufficient
in Mississippi.) "Now, upon well received principles, it is clear
that this act must be strictly pursued ; for it is an innovation upon
the common law; and, moreover, it prescribes the mode in which
a person may convey, who was before disabled to convey. That
mode must, therefore, be pursued ; and as we do not pursue it if
we vary from it, so it follows that it should be substantially, at
least, complied with."
Acts of justices of the peace, done in the country, are always
viewed favorably; and, if substantially conformable to law, are
held sufficient.
The certificate in this case is on the ninth page of the record.
It is not denied that the justice of the peace was duly authorized
to act, and that his official certificate was written on or under the
deed. But it is objected, that he has not done or certified what
the law requires.
There is no objection that the same certificate embraces two
official acts. The first paragi-aph certifies the acknowledgment of
all the parties tothe deed, with a view to its record. That was a
separate and independent act.
The second paragraph or sentence of the certificate is the subject
of dispute. What does the justice certify?
1. That Martha Phipps, Sarah Gibson, and Mary Halle, wives
of William M. Phipps, William R. Haile, and David H. Gibson,
having been examined separate and apart from their husbands ;
2. Acknowledged that they signed, sealed, and delivered the
same as their act and deed,*frea of fears, threats, or compulsion
of their said husbands.
3. And these facts he certifies.
Now, is not this a substantial compliance with the statute ?
The objection to the grammatical construction of this sentence
does not appear to me well founded. Its .true reading is, that
the justice certifies his having examined the wives separate and
apart from their husbands ; and, on that examination, the ,wive ,
thus being separate and apart from their husbands, made the acknowledgment. Privy examinations in court and in the country
have been long practised. The terms are technical. It is against
the influence of the husband that the wife is protected ; and an examination is privy or private, within the statute, when he is not
present. The casual presence of others would not vitiate i ; and

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

235

Agricultural Bank of Mississippi et 41. v. Rice et aL.

there is no just reason to infer, in this case, that any one was present. The statute requires a "private examination, apart from the
The justice certifies that he made an examination,
husband."
separate and apart from the husband.
The statute requires a previous acknowledgment that she signed,
sealed, and delivered the same as her voluntary act, freely, without fear, threats, or compulsion of her husband. The certificate
is, that they acknowledged to have signed, sealed, and delivered
the same as their act and deed, free of fears, threats, or compulsion of their husbands.
This court, in 12 Peters, 345, said, " The law presumes a feme
covert under the coercion of her husband." It is against this presumed influence that the privy examination is intended to protect
her, when the statute requires, that she shall acknowledge the same
as her voluntary act freely, without fear ; and it means nothing
more than that she shall declare her act to have been done free
from stich influences. This is done in the certificate, and the
effective and essential words of the statute are employed. Hepburn v. Dubois, 12 Peters, 345 ; Shaller v. Brand; 6 Binney, 435;
McIntire v. Ward, 5 Binney, 296; 1 Peters, 155.
There is no proof in the record that the femes covert were infants.
IV. It is objected that the acknowledgment. of the femes is not
recorded. By the record, it appears that the deed, with the
certificate, which was an essential part of it, was received for
record on the day after the execution ; and, on thenext day, the
clerk certifies that the within deed is recorded. It is. an unauthorized conclusion, that the certificate was not recorded as a part of
the deed.
No such objection appears to have been taken below, and there
is nothing in the circumstances of this case to induce the court to
presume defects which do not appear to exist in favor of the
plaintiffs. But no question arose as to the record of the certificate.
If the fact were so, it was sufficient ; but the court, by refusing to
allow the deed to be read, deprived the defendants of the right to
exhibit the proof, which, it is confidently asserted, was at hand
to perfect their case, so far as the record of the certificate was
required by law.
The defendants, bona fide, bought and paid for the property of
the femes. They united in a bond and conveyance of the property ; when relieved from disability, they received the purchase money, and they stood by and permitted the innocent purchasers of
this property to put on it improvements at a cost of more than one
hundred thousand dollars, without interposing objection or assertion of title ; they have not proposed to return the purchase money, or to indemnify against the enormous expenditure for improvements. It can hardly be, that' under such circumstances, the claim

23

SUPREME COURT.
Agricultural Bank of Mississippi et al. v. Rice et al.

of title set up by their subsequent husbands can be successfully
maintained by the refined and technical reasoning resorted to.
JIr. .J. Johnston, for defendants in error.
The exceptions to the decision of the court below were taken
and were confined to the rejection of two instruments of writing,
which were offered in evidence on behalf of the defendants, now
the appellants ; and, if they were properly rejected, the judgment
must be affirmed.
The first of these was a bond, and the second a deed, in alleged
pursuance of it, both purporting to have been executed, under coverture, by Mrs. Hale (now Mrs. Rice) and Mrs. Phipps, to persons under whom the appellants claim. The question of the title
depends solely upon the validity of these conveyances.
I. 1. As to the bond, it is only necessary to refer to the case
of Hickey's Lessee v. Stewart et al., which was decided, upon
able debate and ample deliberation, at the last term of this court,
wherein it was held, that an equitable title could not be set up
either to sustain or to defeat an action of ejectment. 3 How. S.
C. R. 760. Hence, bad the bond been acknowledged by these
married women, and otherwise 'valid, it was properly rejected by
the l6wer court.
2. The same ceremony of an acknowledgment, on a private examination, is required, by the statute of Mississippi, in the alienation of equitable as in that of legal estates, both kinds of estate being within the terms and meaning of the statute :,Noestate of a
feme covert shall hereafter pass by her deed or conveyance," &c.
(quoted hereafter).
Howard and Hutchinson, 347. So, in
Ohio, leases by femes covert must be acknowledged. 6 Ohio R.
313. In this case, there is no certificate or acknowledgment whatever of the bond.
3. The bond of a married woman is, upon the general principles of the law, utterly void. 2 Kent, 168,.5th ed. ; 6 Wend.
1 ; 1 Bailey, 184 ; 2 Story's Eq. 617 ; 5 Day, 492 ; 7 Connect. R. 128.
II. The deed was properly rejected upon three grounds
1. Its intrinsic defect. Phipps, Haile, and Gibson grant, "in
right of their wives," but these wives are not parties to the deed.
It is true, their signatures are affixed, but their names are not in
the body of the deed. Now, it is rather trite learning to say, and
to say here, that there must be a grantor, a grantee, and a thing
granted, to every deed that grants land ; that'a grantor is as necessary as a grantee or thing granted; or that the. is a place in a
deed for the name of the party who grants, and that this place is
not the bottom of the deed. This is a good conveyance of the
life estates of Phipps, Haile, and Gibson ; the two former being

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

237

Agricultural Bank of Mississippi et al. v. Rice et al.

dead, and their wives never having been made parties to it by apt
words, are not bound by it.
A deed of land, executed by husband and wife, but containing no words of grant by the wife, does not convey her
estate in the land, nor her right of dower. 3 Mason's C. C. R.
347.
Where there are no grantors, there is no remedy even in equity
10 Ohio 1R. 305
A deed is invalid, though the feme covert be named in the
premises, and her signature be affixed, if not named elsewhere. 7
Ohio Rt. 195.
2. The deed was properly rejected, because of the defective
certificate bf examination and acknowlidgment.
The statute 6f Mississippi is as follows (Howard and Hutchinson, 347) :"1No estate of a feme covert in any lands, tenements, or herediaments, lying and being in this State, shall hereafter pass by her
deed or conveyance, without a previous acknowledgment made by
her, on d private examination, apart from her husband, before a
judge, &c., that she signed, sealed, and delivered the same as
her voluntary aibt and deed, freely, without any fear, threats, or
compulsion of her husband, and a certificate thereof written on or
under said deed or conveyance, and signed by the judge or justice
before whom it was-made; and every deed or conveyance so executed and acknowledged by a feme covert and certified as aforesaid shall release and bar her right of dower in the lands, tenements, -and hereditaments mentioned in such deed or conveyance.))
It does not appear from the certificate in this case, that the
acknowledgment of the married women was taken on a private exanination, which is required by the statute.
In the first sentence of the certificate, the husbands and their
wives all appear and act together ; in the second, .the wives all appear and act together. For it is stated, -"
And Martha Phipps,
Sarah Gibson, and Mary Haile, wives of William M. Phipps,
William R. Haile, and David H. Gibson, having been examined,
separate and apart from their husbands, and" acknowledged that
they signed," &c. If grammatical construction require the insertion of the word "having" before the word "a c knowledged," it
is questionable whether there be any affirmative statement of the
acknowledgment at all. If the word "separate,'" which is not in
the statute, and imparts no vigor to its phraseology, be stricken
out, the, certificate will be, - " And Martha Phipps, Sarah Gibson,
and Mary Haile, wives, &c., having been examined apart from
their husbands," &c. It is in vain to call this an "acknowledgment made by her (them) on a private examinationi"; for it eviscerates the very vitals of the statute. The examinatiorn may have

238

SUPREME COURT.
Agricultural Bank of Mississippi et al. v. Rice et al.

been not only apart and separate from their husbands, but private,
or, in the language of Coke, solely and secretly, and yet the acknowledgment may have been made not only in the presence of
the relatives, friends, and dependents of their husbands, but in that
of the husbands themselves. The interpolation of the word
"separate" imparts no strength to "apart," nor are they, separate and apart, or united, eiluivalent to private ; separate having
reference to the position of husband and wife, while private indicates the position of the magistrate and the wife in reference to
the whole world besides. The two houses of Congress are separate and apart, but not very private ; the chief-justice and his
associates are separate and apart, yet together~constitute one public bench. The examination of married women, separate and
apart from their husbands, though in the -company of each other,
would not be regarded as 'a compliance with the- statute ; yet it is
obvious from the face of the certificate, that the three sisters, Mrs.
Phipps, Mrs. Gibson, and Mrs. Haile, were all of them together,
acting, acknowledging, and being examined ; and, for aughf that
appears to the contrary, may have been surrounded, at the time of
the acknowledgment, by the friends, relatives, and dependents of
their husband4, and of their grantees, against whose arts and influences, if it do not appear by the certificate that the rights of the
married women have been shielded and protected, the statute become. a dead letter, and the private examination a mockery. The
case of Jones v. Maffett and wife, 5 Serg. & Rawle, 534, was
decided upon the ground that the Pennsylvania statute did not require a privy examination, but that it was sufficient if the feme
covert were examined "separate and apart from her husband."
There is a mutilated quotation, I believe, in the same case, of the
maxim, " omnia presumuntur rite esse arta," which is severed
from donec probetur in contrarium. The certificate annihilates
the presumption.
The disability of coverture can only be overcome by the precise means allowed by law for the alienation of the real estate of
married women (2 Story's Eq. 617), of which an essential part is
a private examination, derived from the English mode of conveyance by fine, and rescued from its wreck. Lord Coke thus discourseth of the same: " The examination must be solely and secretly, and the effect
thereof is, whether she be content of her own free good-will, without any menace, or threat, to levy a fine of these parcels, and
name them to her, every thing distinctly contained in the writ, so
as she perfectly understand what she doth ; and if the judge doubteth of her age, he may examine her upon her oath."-2 Inst.
515 ; 6 Wend. 12.
It is a general principle of American law, that all deeds of married women, without. a privy examination, are void ; 2 Lomax's

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

239

Agricultural Bahk of Mississippi et al. v. Rice et al.

Dig. 18 ; and that all acts not conformable to acts of Assembly are void ; ibid. 52.
Some States provide, simply, that
there shall be a private eeamination upon the execution of a deed
by a feme covert, and leave every thing else to the integrity and
intelligence of the offleers authorized to conduct it ; others prescribe the acts to be performed by the officer, such as reading the
deed, making known its contents, or explaining its effects (12
Leigh, 464; 1 Binney, 477 ; 6 Serg. & Rawle, 50), without
the performance of which the deed is inoperative and void. But
it is obvious that the requirement of the private examination alone,
and the requirement of the acts which constitute it, are the same
thing, - the object of both being to remove the disability which results from the matrimonial connection, while they throw an intrenchment around the rights' of the feme covert, who is hardly
considered, in contemplation of law, to have a separate legal existence, her husband and herself constituting but one person. The
sacred injunction, Whom God bath joined together, let no man put
asunder, is, pro hac vice, disregarded, and the minister of the law
is clothed with a confidence which is denied to the husband. The
inefficient or negligent discharge of the duties of the office, which
tend to its -degradation, will neither be sustained by subtle construction, nor receive the countenance of courts of justice.
The words of the certificate are, that 1 they signed, sealed, and
delivered the same as their act and deed, free of fears, threats, or
compalsion of their said husbands "; the language of the statute
is, that " they signed, sealed, and delivered the same as their voluntary act and deed, freely, without any fear, threats, or compulsion of their said husbands." The omission of two words of such
pregnant import, emphatically reiterated, as if to stamp freedom
of volition not only on the act itself, but the manner of the act, is,
I humbly submit, so utterly fatal to the certificate, as to render any
further remdrks unnecessary, except that, though an act done by a
person capable of contracting would be presumed to have been
voluntary, yet this is not that case ; and that each word of the certificate may be perfectly true, yet the deed may have been signed
reluctantly and not voluntarily, sealed reluctantly and not voluntarily, and delivered reluctantly and not voluntarily.
III. The acknowledgment of the femes is'not recorded, the
certificate of the clerk embracing the deed only.
Be it remembered, that the deed was not proved as an original;
to be read otherwise than as such, bbth the acknowledgment and
the certificate must be recorded.
Howard and Hutchinson,
343.
It is not the fact, but the recording of the fact, that makes the
deed effectual. Tate's Dig. 170 ; 1 Pet. 138, 140.
It is in the nature of a judicial proceeding, of which there must
be a record.

240

SUPREME. COURT.
Agricultural Bank of Mississippi et al. v. Rice et al.

IV. Confirmation. It may yet be contended, that the bond, or
the deed, or the mortgage, was confirmed, after disability removed,
and that the mode of confirmation was the receipt of money upon
the notes given for the property for which suit was brought.
Void instruments are incapable of confirmation (Story's Cont.
ยง 47 ; Plowden's R. 397), which must be by an instrument of as
high a nature. 8 Taunt. 36 ; 10 Peters, 59.
A lease, which is void as to a remainder man, cannot be set up
as a defence to an action of ejectment brought by him, although it
be proved that he received rent, or suffered the tenant to make improvements. Law Lib., Oct., 1845, p. 300 ; Doug. 50.
Confirmation cannot be, unless with a knowledge of their rights.
5 Ohio R. 255.
To make an act amount to redelivery, there must be clear
knowledge. 5 Dana, 234.
It must be known that receipt of money made good the redelivery 9 Dana, 477.
The act relied on here was the receipt of money upon the
notes, without any reference whatever to the bond, deed, or mortgage, by payor or payee.
Upon the'mortgage, T-hich was not offered in evidence, no
question was raised in th, court below; of course, none can be
raised or considered here. 11 Wheat. 199.
The time when, and the character ii which, this money was received will shed light upon the intention with which it was received, and the effect of its receipt.
The defects in the deed had not been ascertained when the payments were made. The bond was understood to be merged in the
deed, and the deed was believed to be valid ; hence there could
have been no intention to confirm what was already considered as
obligatory. Suit was brought as soon as the deed was discovered
to be defective. The effect of the receipt of money in a fiduciary
character cannot prejudice the privite rights of Mrs. Rice or Mrs.
Phipps. By law, they could only receive it thus, since they had
no right to the personalty of their respective husbands; upon
which, moreover, there was a statutory lien for their debts. The
law will not put them in -the predicament of saving their private
rights by faithlessness to their trust, or losing their private rights
by a faithful performance of the duties of executorship or administration.
There was neither instrument, act, nor
intention of confirmation, nor knowledge of their rights, till suit was brought.
1Mr.

Crittenden, on the same side.
It might be dishonorable for any parties except- married women
to try and get this property back ; but the law is not friendly to their
rights, and in nine cases out of ten, they do not know what they

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

241

Agricultural Bank of Mississippi et al. v. Rice et al.

are conveying away when they execute deeds. In this case, the
property belonged to the wife, but she is not named as a grantor in
the deed, and therefore is not bound by it. 3 Mason7s C. C. R.
347.
(Mr. Crittenden then examined the certificate of the magistrate,
which he contended was not sufficient.)
It is argued that a subsequent acceptance of money by these
wives, after the death of their husbands, reacts upon the original
contract and confirms it. But it cannot make a deed good which
is intrinsically void. Instruments may be confirmed in some cases,
it is true, but only when they are valid for some purposes, and not
where they are wholly void. And besides, the confirming act
must be performed with the intention and purpose of producing.
such a consequence. It cannot be effected incidentally. The
mere receipt of money is not sufficient,
Mr. Chief-Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This being an action of ejectment, the only question between
the parties is upon the legal title.
It is admitted in the exception, that Mary Rice and Martha
Phipps, lessors of the plaintiff, were each of them, as heirs at law
of Adam Bower, entitled to an undivided third part of the premises mentioned in the declaration, in fee simple. In order to
show title out of them, the plaintiffs in error relied upon the bond
of conveyance and deed, mentioned in the statement of the case,
both of which were signed and sealed by these lessors of the plaintiff, but were executed while they were femes covert.
As regards the bond, it would not have transferred the legal title,
even if all the parties had been capable of entering into a valid and
binding agreement. But as to the femes covert who signed it, it
was merely void, and conferred no right, legal or equitable, upon
the obligees.
The deed, also, is inoperative as to their title to the land. In
the premises of this instrument, it is stated to be the indenture of
their respective husbands in right of their wives, of the one part,
and of the grantees, of the other part,- the husbands and the
grantees being specifically named ; and the parties of the first part
there grant and convey to the parties of the second part. The
lessors of the plaintiff are not described as grantors ; and they use
no words to convey their interest. It is altogether the act of the
husbands, and they alone convey. Now, in order to convey by
'grant, the party possessing the right must be the grantor, and use
apt and proper words to convey to the grantee, and merely signing
and sealing and acknowledging an instrument, in which another
person is grantor, is not sufficient. The deed in question conveyed
the marital initerest of the husbands in these lands, but nothing
more.
VOL. IV.
31
U

242

SUPREME COURT.
Clifton r. The United States.

It is unnecessary to inquire whether the acknowledginent of the
femes covert is or is not in conformity with the statute of Mississippi. For, assuming-it to be entirely regular, it would not give
effect to the conveyance of their interests made by the husbands
alone. And as to the receipt of the money mentioned in the testimony, after they became sole, it certainly could not operate as a
legal 'conveyance, passing the estate to the grantee, nor give effect
to a deed which as to them was utterly void.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed.

CHARLES CLIFTON, CLAULANT, PLAINTIFF IN EREOR,

v.

THE UNITED

STATES.

Upon the trial of a cause where goods bad been seized upon suspicion of being
fraudulently imported, and the United States had shown sufficient ground for an
opinion of the court that probable cause existed for the prosecution, and notice
had been given to the claimant to produce his books and accounts relating to
those goods, it -vas proper for the court to instruct the jury, that, if the claimant
had withheld the testimony of his accounts and transactions with the parties
abroad from whom he received the goods, they were lt liberty to presume that,
if produced, they would have operated unfavorably to his cause.
The doctrine laid down in 2 Evans's Pothier, 149, cited and approved, namely,
"1That if the weaker and less satisfactory evidence is given and relied on in support of a fact, when it is apparent to the court and jury that proof of a more direct and explicit character was within the power of the party, the same caution
which rejects the secondary evidence will awaken distrust And suspicion of the
weaker and less satisfactory, and it may well be presumed, that if the more per.open deficiences and objections
fect exposition had been given, it wouldhave laid
which the more obscure and uncertain testimony was intended to conceal."
The principle established in the case of Wood v. The United States (16 Peters,
34) reviewed and confirmed, namely,- 11That if goods are fraudulently invoiced, they are not exempted from forfeiture, by having been appraised in the
custom-house at valuations exceeding the prices in the invoices, and delivered to
the importers on payment of the duties assessed upon such increased valuations."
If the information contains several counts, founded on the following acts, namely,
the sixy-sixth section of the act of 17.99, the fourth section of the act of 183l,
and the fourteenth section of the act of 183-2, the defectiveness ofthe counts upon
the acts of 1830 and 1832 would be no ground for reversing a judgment of condemnation, provided the count is good which is founded upon the act f 1799;
because one good count is sufficient to uphold a general verdict and judgment.
The difference between these sections explalned.
In this case, therefore, it is unnecessary to, decide what averments are required in
counts resting upon the acts of 1830 and 1832, or whether the counts are or are
not void from generality.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for East Pennsylvania.
The facts are fully set forth in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by Mr. ,Meredith,for the plaintiff in er-

