THE DECISIONS
OF TEX

SWREM

COURT OF TUE UNITED STATES,
Ar

JANUARY

TERM,

WmaiAx M. Gwim, MnsnAL, Pt~

irir.

1846.

mn monO

v. Butcn4s.-

HAGAN, & CO., FOR THE USE OF WLLIAX HOLTIDAY & CO,
A plaintiff has a right to direct a deputy-marshal to receive a certain description of
money in satisfaction of an execution.
but the deputy-marshal then acts as agent of the plakitiff, and not as agent of the
marshal.
Ii, themefore, the plaintiff, when he does ths gives to the deputy-marshal other instructions, which are disobeyed, the marshal himself is not responsible, but the

plaintiff must look to the deputy.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of -error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Mississippi.
-A judgment was obtained in that court, at May teN., 1839, by
the defendants in error against Ephrnim Gwinn and J.,mes Bal
lance, for the sum of $ 2,679-88, with interest at the. rate of eight
per cent., from the 27th of May, 1839, until paid, and costs.
An execution was sued out upon this judgment 'on the 28th of
June,- 1839, and property of the defendants levied upon to the
amount due on the execution, which property was suffered to remain in their possession, according to a law of that State, upontheir executing a forthcoming bond with sufficient security. This
bond was returned by William M. Gwinn, the marshal, at the
next term (Nqvember term, 1839), "forfeited," whereby the said
bond, according to the laws of Mississippi, had the force and
effect of a judgment against the defendants in the original judgment, and their securities in the said bond.
Upon this last mentioned judgment, anothdrfi.f. was issued on
the 19th of- December, 1839, returnable to the next term of the
court, to be held on the first Monday of May, 1840. This fi.fa.
canid to the hands of -the marshal (the plaintiff in errdr), and was

'placed by him in the hands of T. M. Ferguson, one of his depuI

-A

2

,4UPREMEC URT.
Gwinn *v. Buchanan, Kagan, & Co.

ties, to be executed. At,the Nofy terro, the, following return was
made
"Satisfied in full on the third day of Aprl', 1840.
"W. M. GwIrN, Marshal,
per T. M. FERGUSoN, D. Marshal.'?
The money was thereupon demanded of the marshal by the attorney
forthis
the demand
plaintiffs the
(who
are the
presenttodefendants
in"error),in
and upon
marshal
tendered
him te amount
one
thousand funds
dllars,- and
aebe Note
inpeost
notes
of theStates
Missisthe following
A th
Treasury
of the
United
for
cet. Union
added Bank,
for exchange.
These
fuxds 1840,
were with
refused
sippi
due in May
and April,
ifteen
by per
the
plaintifs' attorney, who thereupon moved the court for a judgment
against W. M Gwinn, the marshal, for the amout due on the
said execut on, upon the groUnd that the money had been collected
byIttheappeared,
marshal and
overofonthe
demand.
on not
the paid
hearing
motion, that the

.following

letter had been addressed by .the plaintiffs' attorney to Ferguson,
the deputy-marshal, while the execution was in his hands.
"
eareh,23d, 1840.
"DEAR SIR :In the case of Buchanan, Hagan, & Co., use
of Win.
& Co., dollars
vs. Gwinn
& Ballan~ie,
are authorized
to
receiveHoliday
one thousand
in United
StatesweTreasury
Notes,
and the balance in post of'the Union Bank, maturing May nd
April, 1840, addig on 'the post
fif4een
Aotes per cent, for exchane.
This was what Mr. Gwin proposed to us, and the plaintiff directs
us to accede to the proposition, prord the payment be made to
us ithout delay, in order that the funds
be
hayremitted before
any further depreciation shall occur. You will please communicate this to the parties at the earliest moment.
" Very respectfully,
" Your obkt servants,
"€HARRISOn '& HOLT."
I appeared, also, that the money ha
been collected bFrthe
deputy marshal on the 3d of April, 1840, in the funds mentoned
in the said letter, and tendered to the attorney at Mayterm, 1840,
when he made the demand above mentined; that the Ceputy
marshal did not notify the paintif, or their attorney, of thereceipt of the money,
thhand tha n d nd for it w s made previous to the term at which the execution was returnable, before
which time the bank-notes had suddenly and tgreatly depreciated;
and that Gwinn, the marshal, knew nothing of the instructions
given by the plaintiffs? attorney nor of the colection of the money,
until the meeting'of the court.
Upon this evidence, the Circit Court gave judgment against

J'ANUARY TERM, 1846.

3

Gwinn v. Buchanan, Hagan, & Co.

William M. Gwinn, the marshal, for the amount of the debt, interest, and costs due upon-the judgment of the forthcoming bond.
An exception was ten to this opinion of the court, and the
present writ of error brought by the marshal upon this judgment
against him.
The case was argued by the Attorney-general, for the plaintff in
error. No counsel appeared for the defendants.
Mr. Chief-Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
As a general principle, it is undoubtedly true, that the marshal
is responsible far the acts of his deputy in the execution of process; and if the deputy had taken the funds mentioned in.the 'testimony without any orders from the plaintiffs, or their attorney,
and-retumed the execution satisfied, the plaintiffs would not have
been bound to accept these funds in discharge of their judgment,
and might have insisted on the full amount from the marshal in
gold and silver.
But it is clear, that the plaintiffs had a right to accept in payment of their execution whatever they thought proper. The
deputy-marshal was bound to obey their directions. upon that'subject ; and neither the deputy nor the marshal can be held responsible to the plaintiffs for any loss they may sustain by reason of an
act done in pursuance of their own instructions.
But the plaintiffs seem to suppose that the authority given to
the deputy was not pursued, and that the payment of the money
to them without delay was a condition annexed to the authority,
which had been disregarded by the deputy. But however this
may be, as between him and the plaintiffs, the act or omission of
the deputy in that respect cannot make the marshal himself liable.
Gwinn knew nothing of the directions given by the plaintiffs' attorney. So far' as Ferguson was acting as deputy-marshal, he
had no right to receive, in payment of the debt, any thing but
gold and silver. He had no authority from the marshal to take
any thin& else. But when the plaintiffs interfered, and directed
him to receive the funds above mentioned, he was, in receiving
such funds, not acting under the authority of the marshal as his
deputy, bVut as agent of the plaintiffs; . And if, in executing the
power they gave him, he disobeyed their instructions; they must
look to him, and not to the marshal, who knew nothing of these
instructions, had no concern with them, and who cannot, therefore, upon principles -of law or equity, be held responsible for the
manner in which they were executed.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be reI
versed, with costs.

