122

SUPREME COURT.
Paigo v. Sessions.

JoHN C. P.&mn,-PL~iNirr ix znox, v. MaAz.

A. Sxssoxn.

The decision of this court in the case of Price v. Sessions (3 Howard, 624) review.
ed and confirmed.

THIs case was brought up,.by writ of error, from the Cimit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississip'pie facts in the case brining
it within the principles of the
case of Price v. Sessions, decided at the last term of this court,
.Mr. Criilenden, on behalf of the defendant in error, submittea it
without argument.

Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This writ of error brings before us a case from the Circuit
Court for the Southern District of Mississippi.
At May term, 1840, a judgment was obtained by the plaintiff
against J. R. Brown, James Magee, and E. J. Sessions, for two
thousand two hundred and sixty.three dollars, on which judgment
an execution was issued the 12th January, 1842, which was levied on a large amount of personal property, supposed, as stated in
the return of the marshal, to belong ta E. J. Sessions. .A part
of this property was claime by Martha A. Sessions, the wife of
E. J. Sessions, as devisee of Russel Smith, deceased. A bond
being given by the claimant, and pleadings being filed, under the
statute of Mississippi, the -right of property was submitted to a
jury, who found the title to it in the said Martha, and that it was
not subject to the above execution ; on which verdict judgment was
entered. On the trial, a bill of exceptions was filed by the pk intiff, in which was set out the record of the original judgment and
execution, the will of Russel Smith, and the probate of the same,
the inventory and appraisement of the property of the deceasad,
and other evidence. It is unnecessary to state this evidence in
detail, or to consider the legal questions which were raised in the
case, as, on the same state of facts, the same legal questions were
considered and decided at the last term of this court, in the case
of Price v. Sessions, 3 Howard, 624. The rulings of the ccurt
in that case were sustained, and the judgment was affirmed ; imd
the judgment in this case is also affirmed, with costs.

