16

SUPREME

COURT.

Tombigbee Railroad Company v. Kneeland.
THs TOMBIGBEE RAILROAD COMPANY V. WILLIAM H. KNEELAND.
A corporation, created by the laws of another State, can sue in Alabama upon a
contract made in that State.
The decision of this court, in 13 Peters, 519, reviewed and confirmed.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error to the District
Court of the United States for the Middle District of Alabama.
It was an action of assumpsit on a promissory note made by the
defendant to the plaintiff. The declaration stated, that the Tombigbee Railroad Company was a corporation constituted by law in
the State of Mississippi, the officers and stockholders of which
were citizens of. that State ; and that the defendant, who was a
citizen of the State of Alabama, by his promissory note, made at
Gainsvile, in the last mentioned State, on the 20th of January,
1838, promised to pay to the plaintiff or order, six months after
date, at the plaintiff's banking-house in Columbus, in the State of
Mississippi, the sum of nine thousand dollars, for value received, concluding with the usual averment, that the defendant had not paid.
The defendant appeared and pleaded : -1st. Non-assumpsit.
2d. That the plaintiff was a banking institution without the limits

of the State of Alab..ma, to wit, in the State of Mississippi, and,
unauthorized by and contrary to the laws of the State of Alabama,

exercised the franchise of banking in the State of Alabama, on
.the day and year in the declaration mentioned, and at Gainsville,
in the county of Sumpter, in the State last aforesaid, in the unlawful exercise of the said banking franchise, did, as a bank, dis-

count the said note, contrary to the laws of the State of Alabama.
3d. That the plaintiff, unauthorized by and contrary to the
laws of the State of Alabama, did establish at Gainsville, in

the qounty of Sumpter, in the State of Alabama, an office and
bank to carry on in the State of Alabama the franchise of banking, and, in the exercise of that business, issued their bills and
promissory notes for the purpose of circulation as cash bank-bills
and currency, on the day and year in the declaration mentioned,
and before and after ; and that the note, in the declaration mentioned, was made to and for the purpose of same being discounted by the plaintiff, exercising' such banking privileges as
aforesaid, on the day and year and at the place aforesaid, and that
the -plaintiff did discount the said note, and issue therefor its note
and bills, in the exercise of the banking franchige aforesaid, contrary to the laws of Alabama, by reason whereof the said note
was void.
4th. That there was no such corporation as the plaintiff bad in
that behalf averred in his declaration.
The plaintiff joined issue on the first and 'fourth pleas, and demurred to the second -and third. And upon the hearing of the

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

17

Levi v. Thompson et al.

demurrers, the District Court held that these pleas were sufficient in law to bar the plaintiff of its action, and gave judgment in
favor of the defendant. From this judgment the present writ of
error is brought.
The case was submitted to the court without argument by the
Attorney-General, for the plaintiff in error, referring the court to
13 Pet. 519. No counsel appeared for defendant.
Mr. Chief-Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.'
The only question arising on this record is, whether, by the
laws of Alabama, a contract made in that State by the agents
of a corporation created by the law of another State is valid.
This point was fully considered and decided in the case of the
Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519 and cannot now be considered as open for argument in this court. The principles decided in that case must govern this ; and the judgment of the
District Court is therefore reversed, with costs.

Arxwutmm

Luvi v. Join THomrso.ET AL.

The holder of a register's certificate of the purchase ofa lot in the town of Dubu.
ue, lawfully acquired, and issued bythe register under the two acts of 2d July,
836, and W March, 1837, has such an equitable estate in the lot, before the
isuinorfa patent as will subject the lot to sale under exedution uhder the statute of Io. K

The doctrine established in the case of Carroll v. Safford, 3 Howard, 441, reviewed and confirmed.

Tir commissioners under the act of the 3d of March, 1837,
amendatory of the act entitled " An Act for laying off the Towns
of Fort Madison," &c., approved July 2d, 1-836, confirmed unto
Alexander Levi and John Thompson, as tenants Im common, the
right of purchase, by preemption, of lot No. 68, in the town of
Dubuque, being of the first class, containing seventeen one hundredths of an acre. The 'lot was entered in the land-office, and
the receiver's receipt given to Levi and Thompson for the purchase money, on the 19t of April, 1840. It appears that William
Chilson and Joel Campbell had instituted a suit, on the common
law side of the District Court of Dubuque County, against Levi
and Thompson, and that judgment was'rendered against them for
$780"50 and costs of suit, in August, 1839. -Execution was issued upon the judgment in due form of law ; -it was placed in the
sheriff's hainds to be executed, and.he levied upon the lot for which
Lee and Thompson had a preemption certificate, and the same
was sold tO satisfy the execution, before a patent had been issued
VOL. IV.
3
B

