JANUARY

TERM,

1850.

263

Doe v. Watson.

JOHN DOE,, LESSEE OF JACOB CHEESMAN,

PETER CHEESMIAN AND

SARAH, HIS WIFE, BEERSHEBA PARKER, WARD PEARCE, JOHN.
CLARK AND MARGARET, HIS WIFE, ANN JACKSON, WILLIAM JACKSON, SEWARD JACKSON, AND MARY JACKSON,
W-ATSON AND
SARAH, HIS WIFE (LATE SARAH PEARCE), WILLIAM PEARCE, WARD
PEARCE, MIRABA EDWARDS, JAMES EDWARDS, RICHARD PEARCE,
WILLIAM, JAMES, AND MARGARET PEARCE, THOMAS MORRIS AND

MARY, HIS WIFE (LATE MARY PEARCE), ELIZABETH POWELL' (LATE
ELIZABETH PEARCE), JACOB WILLIAMS AND ELIZABETH VILLIAMS,
SARAH SMALLWOOD, DEBORAH BRYANT, GEORGE L. HooQ AND
LETITIA, HIS WIFE, IN HER RIGHT, JOSEPH SMALLWOOD, JOSEPH
HURFF, JANE TURNER, JOHN BROWN AND MARY, HIS WIFE, IN'
HER RIGHT, WILLIAM SMIALLWOOD, ISAAC HUEFF AND ELIZABETH,
HIS WIFE, Iii HER RIGHT, RICHARD SHARP AND MARIAM, HIS
WIFE, IN HER RIGHT,
RANDALL NICHOLSON AND DRUSELLA,
HIS WIFE, IN HER RIGHT, JACOB MATTISON AND- JEDIIMIA, HIS
WIFE, IN HER RIGHT, JOSEPH NICHOLSON AND MARIAM, HIS
WIFE, IN HER RIGHT, THOMAS PEARCE, AND MATTHEW PEARCE,

(ALL CITIZENS OF NEW JERSEY,) PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THOMAS
WATSON, DEFENDANT.
Where a testator made certain devises to his two grandchildren, "providcd, and the
legacies herein before devised are upon this special condition, that, if both my said
grandchildren shall happen to die under age and without any lawful issue, then it
is my will that three fourth-parts shall be equally divided between Sarah Smallwood and others," &c., and the two grandchildren lived many years after they arrived at full age, and then both died without issue, the devise over to Sarah Smallwood, &c., never took effect, because the two grandchildren both arrived at ful
age.
The plaintifts below having claimed the whole as the heirs of Sarah Smallwood, the
court instructed the jury that they could not recover. But the plaintiffs bCloW
claimed, in this court, that they were entitled to recover a part, because thev were
a portion of the heirs of the two grandchildren. This point was not made in the
court below, and therefore cannot be made here.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania decided, with regard to this very will, that the
devise over to Sarah Smallwood never took effect. This decision was made in
1795, and the acquiescence of half a century would seem to close all litigation nder the will. But even if it did not, this court is of the same opinion.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the 'Eastern District of Peinsylvania..
It was an ejectment brought by the lessee of Cheesman,
&c., to recover certain lots in the city'of Philadelphia. As the
defendant below offered no evidence but contested the validity
of the title shown by the plaintiff, it is necessary to set that

forth.

It was as follows, viz.:

-

The plaintiff gave in evidence the deed of conveyance from
the Proprietors of Pennsylvania, Thomas and Richard Penn, to
James Parrock, bearing date 5th September, 1749, under the

great seal of the Province.

264

SUPREME COURT.
Doe v. Watson.

Also, the-last will and testament- of James Parrock, bearing
'date 24th May, 1754, admitted to probate 24th January, 1755.
One of the arguments of the counsel for the plaintiff in error
being founded upon the presumed intention of the testator, as
gathered from a comparison of several clauses in the will, it
becomes necessary to insert them.
The devises contained in the will material to this controversy are, in substance, the following :-

1. To his wife, Hannah Parrock, of his dwelling-house,
kitchen, and lot of ground in Second and Sassafras Streets, together with various rent charges issuing out of lots of land, to
hold during her life, with remainder of the said dwelling-house,
kitchen, and lot of ground, and certain of those rent charges,
to his granddaughter, Sarah Parrock, and her heirs; and as to
the other of said rent charges to his grandson, John Parrock,
and his heirs.
2. To his wife, Sarah Parrock, for life, the use of certain
goods and chattels; and to his grandson, John Parrock, certain
other goods and chattels.
3. To his grandson, John Parrock, and his heirs, his bank
and water lot in the Northern Liberties of said city, in breadth
50 feet, and depth into the Delaware 254 feet, and his piece of
upland and meadow in the Northern Liberties of about fiftysix acres, and his' bank and water lot in said city, in breadth 71
feet, in length or depth into the Delaware River 250 feet; also
certain rent charges.
4. To his granddaughter, Sarah Parrock, and her heirs, a tenement and lot of ground, adjoining the messuage and lot before
devised to her; also another piece of ground, in breadth, north
and south, 22 feet, in length and depth, east and west; 51 feet,
bounded westward by an alley, &c., northward by M. Hilliga's
lot, &c. ; also his bank and water lot in said city, in breadth
40 feet, in length 250 feet, into the River Delaware, bounded
by Sassafras Street, by Front Street, and by Leeches' lot; with
certain other rent charges.
5. He then devised to his said granddaughter Sarah, and his
said grandson John, all that his pasture or piece of land in the
Northern Liberties, by Oldman's land, Daester's land, and the
York road, containing three acres, to be equally divided between thxem, to said John and his heirs, and to said Sarah and
her heirs.
6. The testator then devised, in these words and figures :
"1And I do hereby empower and order my said executors,
and the survivor of them, to sell and dispose, as soon ag my
said grandchildren shall come of age, all that my piece or lot

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

265

Doe v. Watson.

of ground, situate on the south side of Vine Street aforesaid,
about seventy-one feet from said Second Street corner, and extending east sixteen feet and one half, to Preserve Brown's lot;
south, fifty-one feet, to John Denton's lot; west, by said Denton's lot, sixteen feet and an half; and north, fifty-one feet, by
John Marle's lot; together with the appurtenances, to any person or persons that will purchase the same, and for the best
price that they can reasonably get; to hold to such purchaser
or purchasers, his heirs and assigns, for ever; and to give good
deeds, *or other sufficient conveyances; and the -moneys arising
by reason of said sale shall be equally divided between my said
two grandchildren, John and Sarah Parrock, share and share
alike."
7. -He devises a house and lot to "1Mary Parrock, the widow
of my son John Parrock, deceased, and mother of my said
grandson, John Parrock," and to Lydia Cathcart, a house and
lot, -"to
hold the said messuage so devised to said Mary Parrock during the term of her natural life, if she shall so long
continue my said son's widow. And to hold the said last-mentioned messuage unto the said Lydia Cathcart, during the term
of her natural life, if she shall so long continue a widow. And
from and immediately after their, or either of their (the said
widows) decease, day, or days of'marriage, then I give and bequeathe all and singular the said two messuages unto my said
grandson, John Parrock, to hold to him and his heirs and. assigns for ever."
8. The testator gives pecuniary legacies to said Mary Parrock
and Lydia Cathcart ; to the children of John Smallwood, deceased, his wearing apparel ; and pecuniary legacies to the chil.
dren of William and Mary Paschal; to Sarah Smallwood, the
widow of John Smallwood, deceased, and to Sarah James and
Hannah James, he gives pecuniary legacies.
9. ",And it is my will that the several and respective legacies herein before devised unto my grandson John Parrock, and
unto my granddaughter Sarah Parrock, shall be paid and delivered to them as they shall respectively come of age."
10. The testator devised all the rest and residue of his personal estate unto his wife Hannah, his said grandson John, and
his granddaughter Sarah, to be equally divided between them.
11. "Provided always, nevertheless, and the several legacies
herein before devised unto my said grandson John Parrock, and
my said granddaughter Sarah Parrock, are on this special condition, that if, both my said grandchildren shall happen to die
under age, and without any lawful issue, then it is my will "
that the one fourth part of all and singular the real and perVOL. vIII.
23

266

SUPREME COURT.
Doe v. Watson.

sonal estate unto them herein before devised shall go to the
monthly meeting of the people called Quakers, at Philadelphia;
and the other threei parts of said real and personal estate shall
be equally divided between "the said Sarah Smallwood, the
widow of John Smalwood, and, their children; the children
of Thomas Smalivood; the children of 'Benjamin Richards;
the children of William Paschal, deceased; the said Sarah Paschal, said William Paschal; widow Lydia Cathcart and her
children; Joseph Fordam and his children; Richard Fordam
and his children ; the children of Isac Ashton, deceased; Sarah Thomas and her chiildren; Mary Lee and her children;
Lydia Davis and her children; John Spencer and his children,
and to the survivor of them, and to the heirs and assigns of
such survivors or survivor, as tenants in common, (and not as
joint tenants,) for ever ; any thing heretofore contained to the
contrary thereof in any wise notwithstanding."
In addition to that written evidence, the lessors of the plaintiff gave evidence by the mouths of witnesses, conducing to
prove that the grandchildren of the testator, John Parrock- and
Sarah Parrock, both died without issue and unmarried; that
both said John Parrock and Sarah Parrock had attained full age
before their respective deaths, and died long after the death of
the testator;, that said John Parrock died about the year 1790;
that Peter Cheesman and wife (who was Mary Smallwood)
were both related to John Parrock, - said Peter Cheesman
married his relation; that John Smallwood and James Parrock
were half-brothers; with other evidence of the genealogy of
the lessors of the plaintiff ; and that John Smallwood was dead
when the will of James Parrock was made.
•The defendant gave no evidence.
The counsel for the plaintiff then prayed the court to give
the following instruction to the jury, viz. "If the jury believe the evidence given by the plaintiffs of
pedigree, then, under the true construction of the will of James
Parrock, the plaintiffs are entitled to recover; it being proved
by plaintiffs that both John Parrock, the grandson, andSarah
Parrock, the granddaughter, died over age, and without issue."
But the said learned judges refused to charge the jury as so
requested, and gave in charge to the jury, that under the said
will the plaintiffs could not recover, inasmuch as the devise
over to plaintiffs' ancestors, in"the said will mentioned and contained, never took effect, by reason of the devisees therein
named, viz. John Parrock and Sarah Parrock, having both arrived at full age.
To this instruction the counsel for the plaintiff excepted, and

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

267

Doe v. Watson.

upon it brought the case up to this court.
found a verdict for the defendant.

The jury, of course,

It was argued by Mr. Bibb, for the plaintiff in error, and by
Mr. Wharton and Mr. Meredith, for the defendants.
Mr. Bibb made thd following points:
I. That the charge as actually given by the court was erroneous, because it limited and confined the derivation of title
of the lessors of the plaintiff solely to the question of their being devisees of James Parrock, to the total exclusion of the
right of each and every of the lessors, as heir or heirs of either
said Sarah Parrock or of said John Parrock, the immediate
devisees of James Parrock, who, or one of which said grandchildren, became the stirpes or root of descent and inheritance.
II. That the court erred in the construction of the Will and
testament of James Parrock as given in charge to the jury, and
in refusing the charge as moved by the counsel for the plaintiff.
It is not necessary to state Mr. Bibb's argument upon the
first point, because this court decided that the point had not
been made in the court below, and therefore could not be made
here.
II. That the court erred in the construction of the will and
testament of James Parrock, as given in charge to the jury, and
in refusing the charge as moved by the counsel for the plaintiff.
This leads to the inquiry into the true intent of the testator.
The intention of the testator is to be sought upon the whole
instrument, taken in all its parts as one whole. The words
must follow the intent of the devisor. The sentences may be
transposed to preserve the meaning of a will. One part of a
will shall be expounded by another.
1st. No will ought to be
These rules are to be observed -"
construed per parcellas, but by entireties. 2d. To admit of no
contrariety or contradiction. 3d. No nugation, or any nugatory
thing, ought to be in a will." 8 Vin. Abr., Devise F. a, p. 181,
pl. 11, 12, 13 ; 5 Bac. Abr., F. p. 522, pl. 13; Sparks v. Purnell,
Hobart, p. 75, p1. 93; Bamfield v. Popham, 2 Freeman, 267;
Frogmorton-v. Holyday, 3 Burr. 1622.
To effectuate the intent of the testator, the word "or" shall
Out of
be taken for "and," and the word "and " for "or."
the multiplicity of decisions and examples on that of " or 1' instead of "and," and "and" instead of "'or," the following will
suffice: - Jackson v. Jackson, 1 Ves. sen. p. 217, case 113;
Maberly v. Strode, 3 Ves. 450-454 ; Bell v. Phyn, 7 Yes. 458;
Read v. Snell, 2 Atk. 642, case 351; 8 Vin. Abr., Devise F. a.
2, p. 187, pl. 1.

268

SUPRtME

COURT.

Doe v. Watson.

Construing the will of James Parrock by the rules aforementioned, -not looking to this or that parcel, or this or that devise alone, but viewing all its parts as one whole, to find the
intent of the testator, - the just conclusions are, 1st. That if his grandson John had died leaving issue at his
death, that issue should havie taken the part devised to him.
So, likewise, as to the part devised to the granddaughter Sarah,
if she had died leaving issue at her death, her issue would have
taken that part. That intent is manifested by the devises to
them respectively, and their heirs, in the fore -part of the will.
2d. That the testator intefided, by the after clauses in his
will, to qualify the estates respectively devised to his said
grandchildren, both real and personal, by annexing the contingency to each estate, of having lawful issue of their respective
bodies living at. their respective deaths.
3d. That he intended, if the one or the other of said grandchildren should die, leaving no issue lawfully begotten, the survivor should take the whole, subject to the contingency of
leaving lawful issue at his or her death.
4th. That, in the event that both his said grandchildren
should die leaving no lawful issue, then the estate, real and
personal, should go, one fourth to the Quaker Society at Philadelphia, and the other three fourths to be equally divided between the persons named in the devise over to Sarah Smallwood and others.,
5th. Tlt the testator intended to'-give to each of his said
grandchilien only estates tail in the lands; and that the survivor of the two should, in case of the prior death of the other, without leaving lawful issue at his or her death, take but
an estate tail, or an estate subject to the executory devise.
6th. The testator did not intend to give to either of his said
grandchildren a clear, unencumbered, vendible estate, upon
which either could raise money by sale at full age ; but intended to continue and perpetuate the estate in the family, as far
forth as the law would tolerate such a perpetuity; and so intending, he therefore empowered and ordered his executors to
sell a specified parcel of his real estate "as soon as my said
grandchildren shall come of age," and divide the money thence
arising equally between his said grandchildren.
Mr. Wharton and Mr. Meredith, for defendant in error.
The only question before the court below was the construction
of the will of James Parrock. The plainitiff's lessors pretended
no other title than that of devisees of the said James Parrock.
They did not claim, nor pretend to claim, as heirs at law, or

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

269

Doe v. Watson.

statutory heirs, of John and Sarah Parrock, or either of them.
After the evidence on their part was closed, (the defendant having offered none,) the plaintiffs' counsel requested the court to
charge the jury, that, "if the jury believe the evidence given
by the plaintiffs of pedigree, then, under the true construction
of the will of James Parrock, the plaintiffs are entitled to recover; it being .proved by plaintiffs, that both John Parrock,
the grandson, and Sarah Parrock, the granddaughter, died over
.age, and without issue." The court refused so to charge, but
instructed the jury that, under the will, the plaintiffs could not
recover, inasmuch as the devise over "tothe plaintiffs' ancestors
never took effect. Ard to this charge the plaintiffs excepted;
and it is the only exception or point of law arising from the
record. So that the plaintiffs in error cannot now raise a new
point in this court, which they never took below, and thus shift
their ground of claim and title.- Their evidence was directed
to the point of establishing their right as heirs of 'the devisees
named in the will, and not as heirs of John and Sarah Parrock,
a
and they made out no such title by their evidence.
Then, as to the construction of the will of James Parrock.
What was the intention of the testator?
He had given certain property to his wife, for life ;. and, after
.her decease, he had devised certain portions of it to his grandson, John, in fee, and certain other portions of the same to his
granddaughter, Sarah, in fee. With respect to the Vine Street
property, he had ordered that to be sold, by his executors, so
soon as John and Sarah came of age, and the money arising
from the sale to be equally divided between the two grandchildren. There was, thus, with respect to this property, an equitable conversion of the realty into personalty, in case the devisees attained their majority. See Burr v. Sim, 1 Wharton,
252; Simpson v. Kelso, 8 Watts, 247; Reading v. Blackwell,
1 Bald. 166. HMving thus provided for his two grandchildren,
he looked to the contingency of both dying under 'age, and
without issue; and, in that event, and in that event alone, he
declared that one fourth of the property devised to them should
go to the monthly meeting of the people called Quakers, at
Philadelphia, and the other three fourths shohld be divided between Sarah Smallwood and the other persons named and described in the 'will.
The title of the plaintiffs, even if they should establish their
pedigree, depends altogether upon their showing that both Johnand Sarah Parrock died under age, and without any lawful issue. And upon the trial they distinctly showted, that neither
of said devisees died under age. Where, then, is their title?
23*

SUPREM.E

COURT.'

Doe v. Watson.

The construction of this will is settled by adjudicated cases,
in Pennsylvania and elsewhere. Lessee of Cheesman v. Wilt,
1 Yeates, 411, in 1795, is a case upon this very will; and was
an ejectrent for part of the property claimed under the executory devise to the plaintiffs lessors. The Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania held the case to be "extremely clear," and that
the remainders could only take effect upon the happening of
both contingencies, namely, the dying under age and without
issue. Having no doubt, the court refused to reserve the point
upon the construction of the will.
In Welsh v. Elliott, 13 Serg. & Rawle, 205, under a devise of certain land to the testator's son, Robert, after the death
of his mother, and in case Robert "departs this life before he is
of age, or without lawful issue," the land was given to another
son, in fee, upon certain conditions. Robert having attained
the age of twenty-one, but died without issue, it was held that
he took an estate in fee-simple indefeasibly. Chief Justice
That the estate in
Tilghman, in this case, (p. 206,) says,fee of Robert would have become indefeasible, either by his attaining the age of twenty-6ne or having issue, has been so repeatedly decided, that, on that point, I will only refer to two
cases." The cases referred to by him are Holmes v. Holmes,
5 Bin. 552, and Hlauer v. Sheetz, 2 ib. 532.
In the last of these cases, under a devise to one son of testator, F., and in case he should die under the lawful age of twenty-one, or -without issue, his share should go to another son, P.,
it was held that or should be construed and, and that F, having
attained twenty-one, and died afterwards without issue, an indefeasible fee vested in him, and descended to his heir at law.
"This has been the uniform construction of this clause in
wills," says Tilghman, C. J. (2 Bin. 544), from the case of
Price v. Hunt, Pollexfen, 645, in the year 1684:" To the
same effect are Carpenter v. Heard, 14 Pick. 449, and Dallam.
v. Dallam, 7"Har: & Johns. 220, and many other cases.
There was no looking on the part of the testator to an indefinite failure of issue, as one of the coiftingencies. On the contrary, the intent was, to provide for this contingency within a

limited time, namely, atfthe death of the devisees; inasmuch
as'the devise' over was to persons in being. But the rule of
construing the first, devise an estate tail has no application,
where the contiLgency mentioned in the will is that of "dying
under age and without issue " for, as is shown by the authorities, the estate becomes an indefeasible fee in the first taker,
upon -the occurrence of either of the two events.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

Doe v. Watson.

Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error, which brings before us a judgment of
the Circuit Court of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The lessors of the plaintiff brought an action of ejectment to
recover certain premises, generally described in the declaration,
and situated in the city of Philadelphia. To sustain the right
claimed by the plaintiff, a deed of conveyance from Thomas
and Richard Penn, the original proprietors of Pennsylvania, for
the premises in controversy, dated the 5th of September, 1749,
to James Parrock, was given in evidence. The will of James
Parrock, dated the 24th of Iay, 1754, was then read to the jury, in which, after making several devises to his grandchildren,
John Parrock and Sarah Parrock, their heirs and assigns, he adds,
"Provided always, and the legacies herein before devised
to the said John and Sarah are upon this special condition, that
if both my said grandchildren shall happen to die under age
and without any lawful issue, then it is my will that one fourth
part of all and singular the real and personal estate to them before devised shall go to the monthly meeting of the people
called Quakers; and the other three fourth parts to be equally
divided between Sarah Smallwood and others, and to the survivors or survivor, as tenants in common for ever."
It was proved that John Parrock and Sarah Parrock lived
many years after they arrived at full age, and ,that both died
without issue, long after the death of the testator. Evidence
was offered conducing to prove that the Smallwoods named in
the will descended from John Smallwood, the half-brother of
the testator, and that the lessors of the plaintiff were connected
with the persons to whom the devise over was made. No evidence was given by the defendant. And the lessors of the
,plaintiff prayed the court to instruct the jury, "If they believe
the evidence given by the plaintiffs of pedigree, then, under the
true construction of the will of James Parrock, the plaintiffs are
entitled to recover; it being proved by the plaintiffs that both
John Parrock, the grandson, and Sarah Parrock, the granddaughter, died over age and without issue."
"But the court refused to charge the jury as so requested, and
gave in charge to them, that under the said will the plaintiffs
could not recover, inasmuch as the devise over to plaintiffs' ancestors, in the said will mentioned and contained, never took effect, by reason of the devisees therein named, viz. John Parrock
and Sarah Parrock, having both arrived at full age." To which
an exception was taken.
The form of the charge prayed is not free from objection.
'It assumes the sufficiency of the evidence to prove the heirship

SUPREME COURT.
Doe v. Watson.

of the lessors of the plaintiff, if the jury should believe it. -Now
the evidence was somewhat vague and uncertain, and the jury
might well have doubted whether the heirship was proved.
But the instruction given waives this objection. From the instruction, as well as the prayer, it is clear that the claim of heirship was as descendants of the persons named in the will, to
whom the property was devised over,.
In the argument here, the counsel for the plaintiff asks the
reversal of, the judgment, on the ground, that the instruction
was against the righf of the lessors, or any part of them, to recover, although proved to be the heirs at law of John and Sarah Parrock.
The attention of the Circuit Court was not drawn to this
point, no instruction was asked in regard to it, and it cannot
now be made. The construction turned upon the contingent
devise, and as that was held not to have taken effect, the court
instructed the jury that the lessors of the plaintiff could. not recover. This instruction was explicit, and could not have been
misunderstood by the counsel in the Circuit Court3 and as this
was excepted.to, and no other one prayed, it presents the only
question for our consideration.
This devise was brought before the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania at January term, 1795, in the case of the Lessee of
Cheesman v. Abraham Witt, and the court then held that the
devise ovey did not take effect. They decided "that the remainders over could only take place on the happening of both
contingencies,- the grandchildren who w'ere the primary devisees dying under age and without issue." 1 Yeates, 411.
A decision thus made, and which seems to have been acquiesced in for more than half a century, within which time the
property by descent or otherwise must have passed through th6
hands ofpersons who belonged to two or three generations, and
which-has necessarily become a rule of property, would seem
to close all litigation under the will. But if the question remained open and unaffected by the lapse of -time, the change
of owners, and the great increase of value in the property, we
should have difficulty in coming to-any other decision than the
one above stated.
We assent to the rule, that, in construing a will, the intention
of the testator must govern. And that intention is to be ascertained from the whole instrument. If the intent of the testator be apparent, effect will be given to it, though he may have
used inappropriate terms to attain his object. Under such circunstances, the conjunctive "and" may be read as the disjunctive "or," or the disjunctive may be changed into the conjunc-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

273

Doe v. Watson.

tive. But this latitude of construction is never exercised where
the language of the will is explicit, and the intent of the testator is not doubtful. In such a case, the import of the words
used must be taken.
In the'fore part of the will, specific devises are made of real
property to his two grandchildren by the testator. and when
sell a cer"they shall come of age" he directs his executortain lot and divide the proceeds between them; and certain
other pecuniary legacies are given to them to be paid at the
same time; also, they are declared to be !he residuary legatees
of the testator. The condition then follows, that " if both my
grandchildren shall happen to die under age and without any
lawful issue, then it is my will that," &c. This devise over
includes the personal as well as the real estate devised.
That the testator intended to give the property devised'to
his grandchildren and to their issue is clear, and from this it is
argued, with some force, that he intended the devise over to
take effect on the contingency that they should die without
issue, though after they become of full age. To effectuate this,
it would be necessary to change the word "and" into "or," so
that the devise over should read, '! if both my grandchildren
shall happen to die under age, or without any lawful issue,"
&c.
To this reading is opposed the explicit language of the testator, which limits the condition of the devise over to the death
of his grandchildren under age and without any lawful issue.
These two events must happen, as constituting the contingency on which the devise was to take effect. The language is
so explicit, and the intention of the testator so obvious, that it
would seem he could not have been mistaken. Is there any
thing in any part of the will to control this language?
From the specific devises to his grandchildren and to their
issue by the testator, his intention is inferred, in opposition to
the lariguage used, that on their death, at any time, without issue, the devise over was to take effect. This view is not sustained.by the tenor of the will.
Several of the legacies to the grandchildren were money, to
be paid when they became of full age. These, as well as the
real estate, were devised over "on their death under age and
without lawful issue." Now is this devise consistent with the
supposition that-it was to- take effect at any future period, however remote, on the death of the *grandchildren? They were to
receive their legacies, and the real estate devised to then, when
of age; and they had a right to use their property,'and especially their pecuniary legacies, as their convenience might require.

274

SUPREME

COURT.

Reed v. Proprietors of Locks and Canals.

The testator could not have intended to devise over property
thus received and necessarily appropriated. . He did not intend
to withhold from these children, the objects of his regard and
of his bounty, during their lives, the use of the property he

gave them.

The. nature of this devise goes strongly to show.

that the testator intended it should take effect "on the death

of the grandchildren before they became of age, having no lawful issue."
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
Order.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern

District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel.

On con-

sideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause

-be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

JONATHAN M. REED, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE PROPRIETORS OF
LOCKS AND CANALS ON MERRImAC RIvER, DEFENDANTS.

It is the duty of the court to give a construction to a deed so far as the intentiol of
the parties can be elicited therefrom; but the doubt in the application of the descriptive portion of a deed to external objects usually arises from what is called a
latent ambiguity, which has its origin in parol testimony and must necessarily be
solved in the same way. It therefore, in such cases, becomes a question to be decided by ajury, what was the intention of the parties to a deed.
Therefore, there was no error in the following instructions given by the court to the
jury, viz.:-" That if the 'jury believed from the evidence, looking to the monuments, length of lines and quantities, actual occupation, &c., that it was more
probable that the parties to the mortgage intended to include therein the demanded
premises than otherwise, they should return their verdict for the tenants."
Where a claim to land was maintained upon an uninterrupted possession of forty
years, the death of the original holder and subsequent reception of rent by his
widow did not break the continuity of possession. She is liable to account for the
rent to the heirs.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the State of Massachusetts.

It was a suit brought by Reed, a citizen of Michigan, against
an incorporated company, called "The Proprietors of Locks and
Canals on Merrimac River," in a plea of land, wherein the
said Reed demanded against the proprietors a certain piece or
parcel of land in the city of Lowell and State of Massachu-

setts, containing seven acres and one hundred and forty-two
and a quarter square rods.

