490

SUPREME COURT.
Mager v. Grima et al.

ALEX&NDRINE MAGER, WIDOW COLLARD, OPPONENT AND PLAINTiFF
IN THE MATTER OF THE SUCCESSION OF JOHN MAGER, DECEASED,
PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. FELIX GRIImA, TESTAMENTARY ExEcUTOR. OF THE LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT OF JOHN MAGER, DECEASED, AND THE TREASURER OF THE STATE OF LoUIsIANA.
Bya law of the State of Louisiana, every person not being domiciliated in that State,
and not being a citizen of any State or Territory in the Union, who shall be entitled, whether as heir, legatee, or donee, to the whole or any part of the succession
of a person deceased, shall pay a tax to the State of ten per cent. of the value
thereof.
This law is not repugnant to tho Constitution of the United States.

THIS case was brought up, by a writ of error issued under
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, from the Supreme
Court of Louisiana.
The Widow Collard, who was the plaihtiff in error, resided at
Metz in the kingdom of France, and was the universal legatee
of her brother, Jean Magei who died in Louisiana. There was
a statement of facts in, the court below, which explains the
whole case.
"Statement of Facts agreed.
"Succession of John Mager, on the opposition of Alexandrine
Collard, to the tableau filed by the testamentary executor.
Case agreed.
"1st. The tableau filed by the executor is made part of this
case, to show that the executor retains from the opponent, the
universal legatee of John Mager, the sum of eight thousand
dollars and upwards, being the amoint of the tax imposed by
the fourth section of the act of the Legislature of the State of
Louisiana, passed on the 26th of March, 1842, on property or
estates inherited by foreigners within the State of Louisiana,
and which is in the words and figures-following:each and
"' SEC. 4th. Be it further enacted, &c., that
every person, not being domiciliated in this State, and not being
a citizen of any State or Territory in the Union, who shall be
entitled, whether as heir, legatee, or donee, to the whole or any
part of the succession of a person deceased, whether such person shall have died in this State or elsewhere, shall pay a tax
of ten per cent. on all sums, or on the value of all property,
which he may actually receive from said succession, or so much
thereof as is situated in this State, after deducting debts due by
said successions. When the said inheritance, donation, or legacy consists of specific property, and the same has not been
'sold, the appraisement thereof in the inventory shall be consid-

JANUARY TERM, 1"850.

491

Mager v. Grima et al.

ered as the value thereof. Every executor, curator, tutor, or
administrator, having the charge or administration of succession
property belonging, in whole or in part, to a person residing
out of this State, and not being a citizen of any other State or,
Territory, shall be bound to retain in his hands the amount of
the tax imposed by this act, and to pay over the same to the
State treasurer, if the succession be opened in the parish of
Orleans or Jefferson, or, to the sheriff, if the succession be
opened in any other parish; in default whereof every such ex- •
ecutor, curator, tutor, or administrator, and his securities, shall
be liable for the amount thbreof. It shall be the special duty
of the judges of the Courts of Probate to see that the tax imposed by virtue of this section b( collected and paid over; and
each of said judges shall be bound to furnish to the treasurer,
once a year, a statement or list of the successions opened in his
parish, whereof persons uAo are neither residents of this State,
nor citizens of any other State or territory in the Union, are
heirs, legatees, or donees, inf whole or in part, and of the
amount accruing to such persons; and any judge failing to
furnish such statement shall be subject to a fine not exceeding
five hundred dollars for each and every such omission; and that
he'be responsible to the State for the amount due; and that
the sheriffs of the different parishes throughout the State, except
those of the parishes of Orleans and Jefferson, shall pay over
the taxes thus received from successions in the same manner,"
and be subject to the same penalties, as in the payment of
other taxes; and that the taxes thus received be taken in view
in the execution of the sheriff's bond.'
"2d. It is agreed that, b~y the laws of France, a tax or duty
of six and a half per cent. would be levied by the French government on an inheritance falling to an American citizen, in the
same degree of relationship to a deceased French subject as the.
opponent and.universal legatee in this case bore to the deceased
John Mager, the testator.
"3d. The testator, John Mager, was a natural-born Frenchman, who had emigrated to the United States after thfe cession
of Louisiana to France, and died in the city of New Orleans.
"4th. The opponent, Agathe Alexandrine Mager, Widow
Collard, is the sister of the testator, and his universal legatee,
according to his last will and testament, duly recorded in this
court, and admitted to probate, and is a French subjeat residing
in France.
"5th. The last will of the testator, John Mager, and all the
mortuary proceedings in this court, make part of this case, and
may be referred to, and used in whole or in part, by either

patty.

492

SUPREME COURT.
Mager v. Grima et al.

"If upon thiq case the law of the State of Louisiana aforesaid, imposing the tax aforesaid, be valid, and not repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States, then the opposition
of the opponent to be dismissed, and the tableau homologated
and approved. If, on the contrary, the said law imposing said
tax is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, then
the opposition shall be maintained, and the item of eight thousand dollars and upwards, as aforesaid, retained as the amount
of said tax, shall be expunged, and the same merged in the
succession of the said John Mager, to be paid over to his universal legatee.
(Signed,)

ISAAc T. PRESTON, Attorney-General.
H. R. DENis, Attorney for Opponent."

The Court of Probate dismissed the opposition of the Widow
Collard, and ordered the account of the executor (retaining the
tax) to be homologated. An appeal was carried to the Supreme
Court of Louisiana, which affirmed the judgment of the Court
of Probates, and the case was then brought up to this court,
under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
It was argued by M~r. Jones, for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Coxe, for the defendants in error.
The points upon which Mr. Jones rested his argument were
the following, which were opposed by Mr. Coxe.
I. The tax in question is laid on the person and the rights
of an alien residing in his own country ; - and so is repugnant
to the exclusive power of Congress to regulate commerce with
foreign nations.
II. Or it is a tax on the property and effects in the hands of
the executor, and under the sole destination of being exported
to the foreign legatee ; and so is a tax on exports, and expressly
prohibited by the Constitution.
I. It is repugnant to the power of Congress to regulate commerce with foreign nations.
Under this head, two questions arise, First, whether it be in the nature of a regulation of commerce, such as the Constitution contemplated in the grant to
Congress of the power to regulate commerce.
Second, whether that power be in its terms or in its nature
exclusive, and incompatible with State regulations of commerce.
First. To lay a peculiar tax, out of the rule of taxation common to the citizens of the State, on foreigners residing in
their own country and holding -property, or having vested

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

493

Mager v. Grima et al.

rights and interests of any kind in the State, and to lay it
for the reason that they are foreigners beyond the jurisdiction
of the State, is to exercise a power comprehended in the
terms of the general power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations.
11. The tax in question is, essentially, a tax on exports.
The State of Maryland could lay no tax on imported goods,
even after the importation was consummated, and the goods removed to the importer's warehouse for sale, but still unsold.
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419. A fortiori, not on effects
deposited in the hadds of an executor, trustee, or agent, to be
exported or remitted to the owner abroad.
Shifting the tax from the material of the export to the person of the exporter does not alter its essence. Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 449.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a plain case, and when the facts are stated, the question of law may be disposed of in a few words.
The plaintiff in error was the residuary legatee -or, in the
language of Louisiana law, the universal legatee - of a certain
John Mager, who was a native of France, and migrated to the
United States after the cession of Louisiana. He died at New
Orleans possessed of property to a large amount. The Widow
Collard is his sister. At the time of his death she was a French
subject residing in France.
By the law of Louisiana a tax of ten per cent. is imposed on
legacies, when the legatee is neither a citizen of the United
States, nor domiciled in that State. And the executor of the
deceased, or other person ,charged with the administration of
the estate, is directed to pay the tax to the State Treasurer.
Felix Grima; the defendant in error, is the executor of John
Mager, and retained the amount of the tax, in order to pay it
over as the law directs. And this suit was brought by the
legatee to recover it, upon the ground that the act of the Louisiana Legislature is repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States.
Now the law in question is nothing more than an exercise of
the power which every state and sovereignty possesses, of regulating the manner and term upon which property real or personal within its dominion may be transmitted by last will and
testament, or by inheritance; and of prescribing who shall and
who shall not be capable of taking it. Every state or nation
may unquestionably refuse to allow an alien to take either real
or personal property, situated within its limits, either as heir or
VOL. VII,
42

494

SUPREME COURT.
Mager v. Grima et al.

legatee, and may, if it thinks proper, direct that property so
descending or bequeathed shall belong to the state.
In many
of the States of this Union at this day, real property devised to
an alien is liable to escheat. And if a State may deny the
privilege altogether, it follows that, when it grants it, it may
annex to the grant any conditions which it supposes to be required by its interests or policy.
This has been done by Louisiana. The right to take is given to the alien, subject to a
deduction of ten per cent. for the use of the State.
In some of the States, laws have been passed at different
times imposing a tax similar to the one now in question, upon
its own citizens as well as foreigners; and the constitutionality
of these laws has never been questioned. And if a State may
impose it upon its own citizens, it will hardly be contended that
aliens are entitled to exemption; .and that their property in our
.own country is not liable to the same burdens that may lawfully be imposed upon that of our own citizens.
We can see no objection to such a tax, whether imposed on
citizens and aliens alike, or upon the latter exclusively. It
certainly has no concern with commerce, or with imports or exports. It has been suggested, indeed, in the argument, that, as
the legatee resided abroad, it would be necessary to transmit to
her the proceeds of the portion of the estate to which she was
entitled, and that the law was therefore a tax on exports. But
if that argument was sound, no property would be liable to be
taxed in a State, when the owner intended to convert it into
money and send it abroad.
. The judgment of the State court was clearly right, and must
be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment
of the said Supreme Cort in this cause be, and the same is
hereby, affnrmed, with. costs.

