23i

SUTPl'1I

E

COURT.

_Wanzer v. Tapper e

l

twice granted, the- elder, patent may be set. up in ddfence by' a
trespasser,- when sued by a claimant under the younger grant;'
without inqiuiring as:to who is the actual owner bf the land at
the' time of the trial.
It'is therefore ordered-, hat th6 jfudgment be-reversed, and the
"
cause rematided for aiother trial t6 be had therein.
Order.,
-This cause came on to be heard on-- the transcript of the
of Iowa, and;
record from the Supreme Court of the -Territory
whereof, it is npw
was argued 'by counsel.: On consideratiori
here ordered and adjudged by this court,'that the judgment of'
the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,'.
reversed, with costs, and 'that 'his cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded, for further proceedings to be had therein in
-'
conformity to the opinion of this court.

MOsEs WANZER, PLAINTIFF -IN ERROR, V. TULLIUS
JOHN, H. ROLLINS, UNDER TEA FIRDE OF TUPP.ER

C.

Tu t

AND

& ROLLINS.

By the statutes 'ofMississippi, the holder of an inland bill of exc'hange'is entitled to
,recover of an 'indorser the ambunt due on the bill, with interest, upon giving the
customary proof of default and notice. A protest is necessary only for-thepurpose of enabling him to recover the five per cent. damages given by the acq.

The case of Bailey v. Doziei (6 Howard, 23) confirnied.-

THis'case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court bf the lUnited Stated for the Southern District of Missis-'
sippi.
'Itwas an action brought by Wanzer upon a bill of exchange
drawn -by him upon Silverbury & Co., accepted by drawees,
and-indorsed by Tupper & Rollins to Wanzer.
The cause was tried in 'the Circuit Court in November, 1846,
when the court refused to permit the bill, although admitted to
be an inland bill of-exchange, to be given in evidence to' the
jury, because there was no valid protest thereof.
It is unnecessary to state any further facts in the case..'
It was argued in this court by Mr. Cooxe, for the plaintiff in'
error; no counsel appearing for the defendants.'
.1r.'Chiief JustieTANEY delivered the .opinion of the court.
Ift this case, th ,Circuit' Court for the Southern District of

JANUAR Y TERA,

1850.-

35

Clark. et-al. v. Manufacturers' Ins. Co.

Mississippi decided, that the holder, of can inland bill of exchangP drawn and accepted in that State was not entitled to
recover against thq indorser, unless the bill had, been rejulaily.
protested. far nop 7paymient. ,This decision was made before.
the- case of Bailey v-. Dozier, .reported in 6 Howard, 23, came
befoxe, this court. In that case the court heldupon full consideration of the question, that, under'the statute of Mississippi,
the holder of an.inland bill of exchange was entitled to recover
of an indorser the amount due on the bill, with interest, upon
giving the customary proof of default and notice; and that the
protest. was necessary;9nly for ,the purpose of enabling him to'
recover the five per cent., damages given by the act. The case
of Bailey v. Dozier must -govern this, and the judgment in the
Circuit Court is therefore reversed.
erda-.
.
-

This cause came-unto be-heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United -States for the Southern
District of Mississippi, qnd was argued by counsel. , On.consideration wherepf, it is now here ordered and, adjudged by this
court, that the judgment-of the said Circuit. Court in-this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that -this
cause be, and-the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit
Court, with directions to, ward a venrefacias de novo.

GREEN, AND HuGH McGILL, PLAINTIFFS IN,
Er.I CLARX, WILLwI
ER4R, .v. THE PRESIDENT, DIftECTORS, AND COMPANY OF THE
AIANUF4AQTURERS', IN§SURANCE CoirrANY, DBFENDjINTS..
Where an action wa biught upon a policy of insurance against' fire,by the assignees of the person originally insured, and in the, policy it was said that it was,
"made and accepted upon the representation of the said assured, contained in hi%
application therefor, to which reference is ,to be had," it was, proper -to prove by
parol testimony that the repre entadons alleged to have been made by the party
originally insured were acttially made by him. "
And if the assignees, by their acts, adopted these representations, when renewing.
the policy from time to time, the evidence was equally admissible, because the
I
subsequent policies had referefice to the one first made.
Therefore, -where the represenjtion - upon. which the original policy was founded
was, that "the picker is inside"of the building, but no lamps used in the pickino.room,' it was a correct instruction to give to the jury, that the use of lanps in the
- picker-room rendered.the policy void.
But if no representatiQnswere Vade or asked,-it would not be the duty of the insured to make known the fact that lamps were used in the picker-room, although
the risk might have been thereby iusreased, unless th use of them. in that way
was

unusual..

-

-

-

-

-

-

Tis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit

