48

SUPREME

COURT.

Surgett v. Lapice et aL

opinion, agreeably to the act of Congress in such case made
and provided, and was argued by'counsel. On consideration

whereof, it is the opinion of this court,1st. That the indictment is not fatally defective for the
reason the acts charged to have been 'ommitted by the defendant are not charged to have been committed feloniously,
or with a felonious intent; and,
2d. That the acts charged in the said indictment to have
been committed by the defendant do constitute an offence
within the provisions of the first section of the act of Congress, approved March 3d, 1823, entitled "An act for the
punishment of frauds committed on the government of the
United States." Whereupon it is now here ordered and

adjudged by, this court, that it be so certified to the said
Circuit Court.

FRANcIs SURGETT, APPELLANT, V. PETER
WHITTLESEY.

M.

LAPICE AN

EDWARD

Where an "action of jactitation" or "slander of title" was brought in a State court
of Louisiana and removed into the Circuit Court of the United States by the defendant, who was a citizen of Mississippi (the persons who brought the action being
in Possession of the land under a legal title), and the defendant pleaded in reconvention, setting up an equitable title, and the court below decreed against the defendant, it was proper for him to bring the case to this court by appeal, and not
by writ of error.
This case distinguished from that of the United States v. King, 3d and 7th Howard,
773 and 844.
Before the transfer of Louisiana to the United States, the Spanish government was
accustomed to grant lands fronting on the Mississippi River, and reserve the lands
behind those thus granted for the use of the front proprietors, who had always a
right of pre(emption to them.
After the transfer, Congress recognized this right of preemption by several laws.
In 1832, Congress passed an act (4 Star. atLarge, 534) giving to the proprietors of any
tracts bordering on a river, creek, bayou, or water-course, the right of preference
in the purchase of any vacant tract of land adjacent to and back of his own tract,
provided that the right of preemption should not extend so far in depth as to include lands fit for cultivation bordering on another river, creek, bayou, or watercourse, and provided that all notices of claims shall be entered, and the money
.paid thereon, at least three weeks before such period as may be designated by the
President of the United States for the public sale of the lands in the township.
This lastproviso cannot be construcd to apply to a township where the lands had
already been exposed to sale by order of the President'in 1829. The act having
been passed in 1832, a compliance with it was impossible, and it must, therefore,
be construed as applying prospectively to those lands which had not been exposed
to public sale.
The first proviso related only to a river, creek, bayou, or water-course which was a
navigable stream. The bayou in question was not so, as is shown by the evidence
in the case, and also by the fact that the sections of land, as laid out by the public
surveyor, cross it. When the surveyor comes to navigable streams, he bounds
tnnon the shore, and makes fractional sections.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

49

Surgett v. Lapice et al.
In order to bring land within the exception, it must be fit for cultivation, and also
border on another river, &c. The two circumstances are coupled together, and
both must concur, or else the exception does not apply.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States, for the District of Louisiana. .
It was a possessory action in the sense of the Code of Practice
of that State, originally commenced by Lapice and Whittlesey,
in the Ninth District Court of the State of Louisiana, in and for
the parish of Concordia, against Surgett, who was a citizen and
resident of the State of Mississippi; and at whose request it was
removed into the Circuit Court of the United States.
On the 21st of November, 1829, Surgett purchased several
lots, from number 28 to number 35 inclusive, in township 5,
range 9, east, in the Ouachita district in Louisiana, which lots
fronted on the Mississippi River.
On the third Monday of November, 1829, the President of
the United States issued a proclamation, offering the public
lands in this township for sale.
On the 15th of June, 1832, Congress passed an act (4 Stat:
at Large, 534), entitled "An act to authorize the inhabitants
of the State of Louisiana to enter the back lands." This act
provided that every person who, by virtue of any title derived
from the United States, owns a tract of land bordering on any
river, creek, bayou, or water-course, in the said territory, and not
exceeding in depth forty arpens, French measure, shall be entitled to a preference in becoming the purchaser of any vacant
tract of land adjacent to, and back of, his own tract, not exceeding forty, arpens, French measure, in depth, nor in quantity of
land that which is contained in his own tract, at the same
price and on the same terms and conditions as are, or may be,
provided by law for the other public lands in the said State,
&c., &c. 1. Provided, however, that the right of pregmption
granted by this section shall not extend so far in depth as to
include lands fit for cultivation, bordering on another river, creek,
bayou, or water-course. And every person entitled to the benefit of this section shall, within three years after the date of
this act, deliver to the register of the proper land office a notice, in writing, stating the situation and extent of the tract of
land he wishes to purchase; and shall also make the payment
or payments for the same, at the time and times which are or
may be prescribed by law, for the disposal of the other public
lands in the said State, the time of his delivering the notice
aforesaid being considered as the date of the purchase. 2. Provided, also, that all notices of claims shall be entered, and the
money paid thereon, at least three weeks before such period as
VOL. VIII.

5

50

SUPREME COURT.
Surgett v. Lapice et al.

may be designated by the President of the United States, for
the public sale of the larfds in the township in which such
claims may be situated, and all claims not so entered shall be
liable to be sold as other public lands, &c. And if any such
person shall fail to deliver such notice within the said period of
three years, or to make such payment or payments at the time
above mentioned, his right of pregmption shall cease and become void; and the land may thereafter be purchased by any
other person, in the same manner, and on the same terms, as
are, or may be, provided by law for the sale of other public
lands in the said State.
On the 14th of July, 1834, a part of the land lying back of
the lots owned by Surgett was entered at the land office by
Whittlesey and one Sparrow, whose interest was afterwards
purchased by Lapice.
On the 24th of February, 1835, Congress passed another act
(4 Stat. at Large, 753), extending the time given by the former
act to one year from the 15th of June next.
On the 17th of March, 1836, Whittlesey entered the remaining portion of the lands back of Surgett's lots.
On the 20th of May, 1836, Surgett made application to enter
the lands in controversy, which had been taken up by Whittlesey and Sparrow, and by Whittlesey. At the same time, he
made a tender of the purchase-money, which was refused by
the receiver, in consequence of the following indorsement
upon the application by the register: "By reference to the official township map, it will be seen
that the land *called for in the above application is such as is
exempted from the right of back concession (so called) by the
first proviso of the act under which the applicant claims, which
reads, (I meaning the right to the back land,') shall not extend
so far in depth as to include lands fit for cultivation bordering
on another river, creek, bayou, or water-course.
Now, from
the evidence in this office, the land embraced in the rear of the
above lots or fractional sections is fronting on another bayou,
and that the same is fit for cultivation, the fact of a part being
good land, above or during high-water mark, is on file herewith. Under the circumstances of the case, the land called for
in part has been entered by other persons as public land, subject to private entry, and the application is rejected, so far as
the action of-this office can decide, subject 'to the decision of
the department."
On the 10th of April, 1840, Lapice and Whittlesey filed a
petition in the Ninth District Court of the State of Louisiana,
which is known by the laws of that State as an. "action of

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

Surgett v. Lapice et aL

jactitation," or "slander of title." The petition "shows, that
one Francis Surgett, residing in Adamns county, in the State of
M ississippi, has heretofore, at various times, and on divers occasions, slandered the title of your petitioners to the aforesaid
tracts of land,'and still continues to do so, by giving out in
speeches and otherwise, and public proclaiming, that he the
said Surgett is the rightful and true owner of said tracts of
land, and not'your petitioners; alleging that the said Whittlesey and Sparrow acquired from the United States no legal and
valid right thereto, and threatening the said Sparrow and your
petitioners with a suit to recover the same; that your petitioners and the said Sparrow, while part owners, have frequently
requested said Surgett to desist from the slandering their said
title, or to bring suit to establish his own title thereto, if any
he has; but he has refused, and still refuses, either to desist or
to bring suit as requested; that said acts of the said Surgett
have damaged your petitioners five hundred dollars."
The petition then prays, "That, after due proceedings had,
the said Surgett be ordered to set forth his title to the tracts of
land described in the aforesaid petition, if any he has, and establish it contradictorily with your petitioners; that unless he
produces a good title paramount to your petitioners, that judgment be rendered in their favor, quieting them in their title and
possession of said land, and that the said Surgett may be for ever
enjoined from setting up any claim or pretensions to the same;
that your petitioners recover five hundred dollars damages
against the said Surgett, and the costs of suit to be taxed,.and
for general relief in the premises, &c."
On the 10th of June, 1841, Surgett, being a citizen and resident of Mississippi, removed the cause to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Louisiana.
On the 3d of December, 1841, Surgett filed his answer, in
which he denied altogether that the petitioners had any title to
the lands, but claimed that the title was in himself. The answer then proceeds thus : - "Respondent pleads in reconvention that he himself is the true and lawful owner of so much of
the said lands claimed by the plaintiffs, as are embraced in the
aforesaid bask concessions claimed by him, and prays- that he
may be decreed to be the legal owner thereof; that the certificates granted by the commissioners of the land office to Sparrow and Whittlesey, or either of them, may be avoided and
annulled; and that, if patents have already issued in their favor
for said lands, the plaintiffs may be decreed to convey all their
right, title, and interest, by virtue of said patents, to your respondent; that he may be quieted in his title and possession

52

SUPREME

COURT

Surgett v. Lapice et al.
thereof, and may recover judgment against said plaintiffs for
the sum of one thousand dollars damages, sustained by him in
consequence of their illegal pretensions, and for general relief
in the premises."
Under commissions to take' testimony, thirteen witnesses
were examined, as to the nature and character of the bayou
called Mill Bayou, in the rear of Surgett's lots. It is impossible to insert all this evidence.
On the 7th of April, 1845, the Circuit Court passed the following decree: "The court, having duly considered the law and the evidence
in this case, doth now order, adjudge, and decree, that the
plaintiffs Lapice and Whittlesey be quieted in their title to, and
possession of, the land set forth and described in their petition,
and that the defendant) Francis Surgett, be for ever enjoined
from setting up any claims or pretensions to the same. It is
further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the said defendant
do pay the costs of this suit."
From this decree Surgett appealed to this court.
The case was argued by Mr. Lawrence and Mr. Jones, for
the appellant, and Mr. Brown and Mr. Johnson (AttorneyGeneral), for the appellee.
The points raised by the counsel, for the respective parties
were the following For the appellant.
1. As to jvrisdiction.
A motion has been made to dismiss this case for want of jurisdiction, because (it being an action at law, and not a suit or
proceeding in equity) it should have been brought here by
writ of error and not by appeal.
This was a petitory action originally commenced by the appellees in the State court of Louisiana, in the manner authorized by the laws of that State, .and removed at the instance of
the appellant into the Circuit Court of the United States. It is
known in the Louisiana Code as an "action of jactitation," or
"1slander of title," and may be brought by any one having ,a
colorable title to, or possession of, land or other property,
against any person claiming title to the same, to compel the
latter to establish his title, or else to punish him for the slander. If the fact of claiming title is denied, and no title is
asserted, the trial is upon that issue alone, and would undoubtedly be a trial at law. But if the fact of the supposed slander
is admitted, and the defendant sets forth his title, the original
action is at an end; the answer becomes the ground of anoth-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

53

Surgett v. Lapice et al.

er suit; the former defendant becomes the actor, the plaintiff,
and the trial becomes one as to the respective titles of the parties to the thing in controversy. And.it makes no difference,
according to the Louisiana practice, whether the defendant in
the suit for slander commences a new suit by petition founded
on his title, or whether he does it by his answer in the same
suit. In either case, it is in substance a new suit and another
trial. Livingston v. Hermann, 9 Martin, 656, 700, 722; Hewit
v. Seaton et al., 14 Louis. 160; Millaudon et al. v. McDonough, 18 Louis. 106; Proctor v. Richardson et al., 11 Louis.
188.
When, however, the answer is made the groundwork of a
new suit in the Circuit Court of the United States, where the
distinction between suits at law and suits in equity is established, the character of the suit will be determined by the subjectmatter and the general character of the proceedings. If the
controversy is one appropriate exclusively to equity jurisdiction, and if the proceedings partake mostly of the character of
equity proceedings, the suit is one in equity, so far at least as
to entitle it to be brought up to this court by appeal rather than
by writ of error. McCollum v. Eager, 2 How. 61; Parish v.
Ellis, 16 Pet. 454; Parsons v. Bedford et al., 3 Pet. 447.
The equity jurisdiction of the courts of the United States is
the same in one State as in another, and wholly independent of
the local law of every State, without distinction.
Accordingly, the extension of a common law remedy to an
equitable right, by the local law of any State, does not take
away the equitable remedy proper to the courts of the United
States. *1 Story's Equity, §§ 57, 58; 3 Story on the Constitution, 506, 507, 644, 645, and cases there cited.
The remedies in the courts of the United States must be at
common law or in equity, not according to the practice of the
State courts, but according to principles of common law or
equity, as distinguished and defined in that country from which
we derive our knowledge of those principles. Robinson v.
Campbell, 3 Wheat. 222.
Being a case which, upon general principles, is a peculium
of equity, its jurisdiction in the Circuit Courts. of the United
States was not taken away by a law of Massachusetts giving
the common law courts jurisdiction of the same matter. United States v. Howland, 4 Wheat. 115.
By parity of reason, in Pennsylvania the legal remedy by
ejectment, although extended by State law and practice to
equitable titles, cannot be sustained on such title in the Circuit
Court of the United States in that State; but the plaintiff
5*

54

SUPREME COURT.
Surgett v. Lapice et al.

must still show a paramount legal title. Swayze v. Burke, 12
Pet. 23. See Yatier v. Hinde, 7 Pet. 274; Golden v. Prince,
3 Wash. C. C. 313; Pratt v. Northam, 5 Mason, C. C. 95.
All these principles have been extended and applied in their
utmost latitude, and with additional illustrations, to Louisiana.
See Livingston v. Story, 9 Pet. 655; S. C., 13 Pet. 368; Ex
parte Poultney, 12 Pet. 474; Ex parte Myra Clarke Whitney,
13 Pet. 404.
And see all these reviewed, and the doctrine reasserted, in
Gaines et ux. v. Relf et -al., 15 Pet. 9 ; Gordon v. Hobart, 2
Sumner, C.. C. 401.
Lastly, this court has decided, in effect, that the United
States, in conferring chancery jurisdiction on the courts. in
Louisiana, have imposed no foreign law on the State, nor introduced any foreign or new principle of jurisprudence. The
whole innovation went no further, in that State, than a mere
change in the mode of obtaining a judicial end, for which the
local law is there supposed to afford an adequate remedy in
another form. Gaines et ux. v. Reif, Chew, et al., 2 How.
650.
Although in Louisiana, as in many other of the United
States, there are no distinct forums of law and equity, yet an
equity jurisprudence (not materially distinguishable, either in
its principles, in its practical ends, or in the means of accomplishing its ends, from that which other States have borrowed
from the equity s~stem of England) is incorporated with the
general jurisprudence of the State, and is administered by the
same courts -and the same remedies.
Those remedies, in their practical forms, in their processes,
and in their reach and effect, (though not precisely conformed
in all respects to the rules of equity practice prescribed to the
courts of the United States,) are fashioned after the same
model as those of the equity side of the English Chancery
styled the Forum iomanum; and are quite appropriate to all
the most comprehensive heads of equity cognizable in the
courts of the United States. Civil Code of Louisiana, Art. 21,
1958 to 1962, recognitions of equity eo nomzne.
Actions whereby contracts, &c., may be set aside by the
active interference of the court, (over and above the universal
right of defence on equitable grounds,) as effectually and extensively as by any form of procedure in any court of equity.
C. Code, Art. 1854 to 1874, 2567 to 2578, 2634 to 2636,
Lesion; 2496 to 2518, Redhibition; 1841 to 1843, Nullity
resulting from Fraud; 1876, Contracts vitiated by Fraud, &c.,
may be avoided either by exceptions or actions.

JANUARiT TERM, 1850.

55

Surget' a. Lapice et al.

Code of Practice, Louisiana, sections treating of Petition and
Citation, Art. 170 to 207; of Conservatory Acts, 208, 209; of
Sequestration, 269 to 283; of Injunction, 296 to 309 ; of Appearance and Answer, 316 to.329; of Exceptions, 330 to 346;
of Interrogatories, 347 to 356 ; of Incidental Demands, 362 to
364 ; of Intervention, 389 to 394; of Parties to Suits, 101; of
Amendments, 419 to 440; of Trial which is regularly on hearing before the court and only allowed by jury sub modo, 476
to 492 and 493 et seq.
1st. The subject-matter of this suit was one of exclusive
equity jurisdiction. Surgett had an equitable title to the land
in controversy, his opponents had a colorable legal title and
possession. In no State, (except Pennsylvania,) where law
and equity'jurisdictions are distinct, could he stand for one moment in a court of law. His equitable title could be asserted
only in a court of equity against the legal title of his adversaries.
2d. The forms of proceeding were more nearly allied to proceedings in chancery than to proceedings at common law.
They commence by petition, in which the ground of complaint
and relief sought are set forth. The defendant is ruled to answer. The answer admits, denies, or avoids the facts in the
petition, or sets forth new matter upon which the defendant
may recover if sustained. Interrogatories are filed. The case
is heard by the court on the facts and the law, and ends by a
decree. See Justice McLean's opinion: in Parsons v. Bedford, 3
Pet. 450.
Now it is not incumbent on us, who appeal from these proceedings, to show that they are perfectly regular chancery proceedings in all their parts. On the contrary, we contend that
they are not so, and that, on the principles adopted by this
court in Livingston v. Story, 9 Pet. 632, the decree should be
reversed. All that it is incumbent on us to show is, that,
whatever these proceedings may be denominated in the" Louisiana State practice, and however generally they may be used,
they partake sufficiently of the character of chancery proceedings to render an appeal rather than a writ of error proper, the
subject-matter being one of equity jurisdiction.
2. As to the merits.
On the 21st of November, 1829, Francis Surgett purchased
lots 28 to 35 inclusive, in township 5, range 9 east, in the
Ouachita district, Louisiana; said lots fronting on tlie Mississippi River.
On the 15th of June, 1832, Congress passed an act (4 Stat.
at Large, 534), giving to the proprietors of any tracts ".bordering on any river, creek, bayou, or water-course"1 in the terri-

56

SUPREME

COURT.

Surgett v. Leaice et al.

tory, the right of preference in the purchase of any vacant
tract of land adjacent to and- back of his own tract, not exceeding forty arpens, French measure, nor in quantity of land that
contained in his own tract: "Provided, that the xight of preemption granted by this section'shall not extend so far in depth
as to include lands fit for cultivation, bordering on another river, creek, bayou, or water-course." The act required that, to
entitle a person to its benefits, he should, within three years
from the passage thereof, make application to the register and
receiver, and make payment for the land. It also required, that
when any public offering of the township for sale should be
made under proclamation of the President, the pre~mptioner
should, at least three weeks prior thereto, give notice of his claim.
On the 24th of February, 1835, (4 Stat. at Large, 753,) Congress passed an act, extending the time given by the act just
cited to the 15th of June, 1836.
Before the expiration of the last-mentioned act, to wit, on the
20th of May, 1836, Mr. Surgett made application to enter the
lands now in controversy, lying immediately back of his river
lots, at the same time making tender of payment therefor;
which applietion and tender were refused, on the ground that
the land sought to be entered bordered on a bayou, and was fit
for cultivation, was consequently subject to private entry, and
had actually been entered by others. By reference to the receiver's receipts, it will be seen that a portion of this land had
been entered on the 14th of July, 1834, by Edward Sparrow
and Edward Whittlesey, jointly, and the remainder by Edward
Whittlesey on the 17th of March, 1836. It also appears from the
petition, that P. M. Lapice, one of the appellees, had purchased
the interest of Sparrow in the land.
From this state of facts the question arises, whether the lands
so entered by Sparrow and Whittlesey were subject to private
entry, by reason of their being fit for cultivation and bordering
on a ", bayou," or whether, on the contrary, Mr. Surgett had
not a full right of preemption to these lands, and his application ought not to have been received.
For the appellant it will be maintained, that the decree below
was erroneous, for the following reasons : -1. Because the evidence contained in the record does not
show that the land in controversy bordered on any "river,
creek, bayou, or water-course," within the meaning of the act
of Congress, dated 15th June, 1832.
It is especially to be remarked, that most of the witnesses
who describe this "bayou" as of any considerable length, depth,
or width, speak of it from a single visit in the spring of the

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

57

Surgett v. Lapice et al.

year 1828, during a freshet, and give both its width and depth
as measured from the embankments that inclose it.
It is variously described as from-1 to 2, miles long, 30 to 80
feet wide, and from 7 to 17 feet deep from the embankments.
There is not a particle of evidence that it is navigable, or a
perennial stream. On the contrary, the evidence shows that
for. the greater part of the year it is 'dry; that it is at no time
a running stream, except from overflows of the Mississippi, or
heavy rains.
This was not a "bayou" within the 'meaning of the law. In
the Roman civil law, it is laid down, that, to constitute a river
or ruh ing stream, as contradistinguished from torrents and
temporaiy water-courses, the flow of water must be perpetual;
though, if a stream which usually runs throughout the year
should happen to be dried up during summer, it would not cease
to be perennial, any more than a stream which usually flows
only during winter would be perennial because of an extraordinary flow during summer. (Digest, lib. 43, tit. 12.)
Again, the act of Congress speaks of a tract of land "bordering." on a river, &c. It is contended that a fair construction of
this law does not apply it to any small and insignificant stream
which may pass through a tract of land, making no difference
either in the figure of the tract or the computation of its area;
but that "bordering" on a stream has'reference to a stream
which makes one of the "confines," outer'edges, or exterior
limits, of the tract. A "tract. of land," as that expression is
used in acts ofCongress in relation to public lands, means some
legal subdivision, bounded by lines run in the mode prescribed
for public surveys. So the word "lands," as used in this act
of 1832, must mean some legal subdivisions'known to the law.
If, then, a stream of water should run through such "tract of
land" or "lands" without constituting a "border" or limit to
the same, it would not be within the act in question. The'law
of Congress obviously had reference to such bodies of water as
controlled the shape of the tract.
Again, the history of this anomalous nio'de of surveying authorized by the act of 15th June, 1832, its object, and the geographical peculiarities of the State of Louisiana, all show that
the purpose of the act was to deal with something of more importance than mere swamps or drains.
2 White's Recopilacion, 228, 235, 240, 276, 277, State
papers, Public Lands, vol. 3, p. 557. lb. 2,'paragraph 2, col.
paper 380, memorial of Louisiana.
2. If there were proof in the record derived-from the examination of witnesses, it would not be admissible for the purpose of

58

SUPREME COURT.
Surgett v. Lapjie et al.

showing that Surgett had not the right to take these tracts as
back pregmptions, in view of the fact that the Surveyor-Gen,.:
eral (to whose discretion it was committed) had laid them out
in square sections, had not noted on the official plat the existence of any such body of water as is within the meaning of the
law, as he was required to do if any such existed, but had
merely indicated by a line the existence of some nameless and
insignificant swamp' or 'slough." At ,1ach 3d, 1811, sec. 2
(2 Statutes at Large, 662).
3. Supposing the swamp or slough described in the evidence
and delineated on the plat, to be a "bayou" within the meaning of the act of Congress, still the decree of the Cir cuft 0urt
was wrong, because some of the tractsin controversy tots jo.
1 and 2 of sec. 61) did not border on this "bayou," taking them
-even to be .eptire tracts as they were surveyed and patented.
(See plat A.)
But we are not bound to treat them as entire tracts, as they
have been surveyed and patented, because the law of the 15th
June,.1832, (4 Stat. at Large, 534,) itself makes provision for
a resurvey of the back lands, in order to enable the front pro.prietors to avail themselves of the privilege of pregmptibn.
Now if these back lands were resurveyed, and the front lots
extended back in the manner exhibited in plat B, not one of
them (except lot 28) could be said to include lands bordering
on this "bayou," or through which this bayou runs, unless the
bare touching at a single point would exclude the land back of
lot 29. As to all the rest, they'would be entirely clear of this
"bayou."
4. The title which the appellees set up is not good, inasmuch as the original patents to Whittlesey and Sparrow do not
cover the land in controversy, there being no such sections, under the laws of the United States, as sections numbered 58,
59, 60, and 61.
The first law, and that which laid, !he foundation of the land
system, was the .,ordinance of 20th ,May, 1785. 1 Birchard's
Compilation, Land Laws, Opinions, &c., p..11.
This ordinance pointed out the mode in which the townships
should be surveyed, each six miles-square ; that the plats should
be marked by subdivisions of one mile square, containing 640
acres, the lines theieof to be parallel to the external, lines
of the township, and numbered from I to 36, beginning each
succeeding range of the lots with the number next to that
with which the pzeceding one concluded; and where a fractional township should'be surveyed, the lots protracted thereon
should bear the same numbers as if the township had been entire.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

59

Surgett v. Lapice et al.

The 2d section of the act of 18th May, 1796, (1 S tat. at Large,
467, 468,) prescribes the precise manner in which the sections in townships shall be numbered, beginning with the number one in the northeast section, and proceeding east and west,
alternately, through the townships, with progressive numbers,
till the thirty-sixth be completed.
The 10th section of the act of 3d March, 1803, (2 Stat. at
Large, 233,) made it the duty of the surveyor, appointed to survey the lands south of Tennessee, to cause the same to be surveyed, as far as was practicable, into townships, and subdivided
in the manner authorized and directed in relation to lands lying
northwest of the River Ohio.
The 7th section of the act of 2d March, 1805, (2 Stat. at
Large, 329,) extends the powers of the surveyor of lands south
of Tennessee over the Territory of Orleans, and directs him to
survey and divide the lands thereof in the same manner, (as
near as the nature of the country will admit,) as the lands
northwest of the River Ohio.
Thus far the mode of surveying and numbering was uniform
and precisely marked out. The section at the northeast corner of every township was to be numbered one, and all the
other sections were to be numbered in regular progression from
right to left, and left to right, alternately, to the thirty-sixth,
which would always and of necessity be the southeast section
of the township.
The 2d section of the act of 3d March, 1811, (2 Stat. at
Large, 662,) authorized a different mode of surveying those
lands which lay on rivers, creeks, &c., but did not authorize
any change in the other portions of the townships, and such
has been the construction of the land office. See 2 Birchard's
Comp. 495; Brown's Lessee v. Clements, 3 How. 650; Jourdan et al. v. Barrett et al., 4 How. 169.
5. As to the objection made by the judge of the Circuit
Court, namely, that the act of 1832 was not applicable to lands
which had at that time been already offered for sale, it is submitted, 1st. That the enacting portion of the law is of the most general and comprehensive character.
2d. That the proviso, requiring a notice of claim to be filed
three weeks before offering of the land at public sale, was not
intended as an exclusion of lands which had been already offered from the operation of the law, but simply as a facility for
ascertaining before any public sale what lands were claimed as
back pregmptions, and what were not, so that it could be
known beforehand what lands were legally subject to sale and

60

SUPREME COURT.
Surgett v. Lapice et aL

what were not. This reason not applying to lands already offered at the date of the act, the proviso requiring three weeks
notice did not apply to them. All the preemption laws contain a similar proviso. Such was the construction of the-land
office. 2 Birchard's Compilation, 573.
The enacting clause applied to all public unappropriated
land. The proviso in question was applicable only to such
lands as had not been offered.
If thfs' be so, then Mr.' Surgett had a right, under the act of
16th June, 1832, at any time prior to the 16th of June, 1835, to
file his application to enter the land in controversy.
This right having been extended to the 16th of June, 1836,
by the act of 24th February, 1835, (4 Stat. at Large, 753,)
Mr. Suigett, having made.his application on the 20th of May,
'1836, was consequently within the time prescribed by law, and
his application ought to have been admitted.
Points on the part of the appellees.
1. That' this cause involves legal rights, for which a plain
and adequate remedy is provided by the ordinary process of the
common law.
,r2. That the character of this action, which is essentially an
action at law, is not, and could not be, changed by the laws of
Louisiana into a proceeding in equity, in the United States
Circuit Court in Louisiana, or in this court.
3.' That this cause was tried in the Circuit Court as a court
of law, ad not according to the forms of a court of equity.
4. And as a consequence of the above propositions, the apVpellees will contend, that, this being a cause at common law,
should have been brought up fo this court by writ of error, and
not by appeal, and that this appeal should be dismissed.
5. At the trial below, and after it had commenced, the appel-lant applied for a continuance of the cause, which was refused
by the court. To this refusal the appellant excepted. The
appellees will contend that the court decided correctly in refusing the continuance, and that such a refusal is not a ground for
an exception or appeal.
6. The appellees will contend that the diagram marked B,
o-0ffered in evidence by the appellant, and mentioned in the seco d bill of exceptions, was rightly rejected by the court.
* 7. That there is no error in the opinion of the court in the
third bill of exceptions.
8. That the only questions open on this appeal are those
raised by the bills of exception.
9. That the appellant, not having shown that he had any

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

61

Surgeti v. Lapice et al.

title to the sections 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, and 33, at the time (to
wit, the 26th of May, 1836)'when he claimed to purchase the
property in dispute from the register of the land office, as back
concessions to said sections, and not having shown that he acquired any title to said sections until the 15th of June, 1837,
his application was rightly rejected by the register of the land
office.
10. That the application of the appellant to purchase the
back concessions, being indefinite, and not showing the extent
of the land which he claimed to purchase, was not such as is
required by law, and was rightly rejected by the register.
11. That the right to purchase back concessions is confined
to owners of front tracts which do not exceed forty arpens,
French measure, in depth, and the appellant, not having shown
what is the depth of his front tract, has not established his
concessions.
any back
right
12. toThat
the register
of the land office, having decided"
against the claim of the appellant, his decision is conclusiye, so
far, at least, as this case is concerned, or, if not conclusive, is
correct.
14. That the appellant did not, at the time of his application, make payment or a legal tender for the back concessions
claimed by him.
14. That the land in controversy is fit for cultivation, and
borders on the Mill Bayou, which is sufficiently large and deep
to drain the adjoining country, and render it fit for cultivation,
and that said land therefore cannot be claimed as a back concession.
15. That the land in controversy was offered at public sale,
in pursuance of a proclamation of the President, on the third
Monday of November, 1829, and was therefore not liable to be
claimed as a back concession.
Additional point of the appellees:16. A part of the land in question, was purchased by the alm
pellees, or those under whom they claim, on the 14th of July
1834. They will therefore contend, that they had obtained a
vested title thereto at the time of the passage of the act of 24th
February, 1835, ch. 24, (4 Stat. at Large, 753,) which could
not be divested by the application of the appellant made on the
20th of May, 1836.
See Thompson v. Schlatter, 13 La. R. 119, and Act of 15th
June, 1832, ch. 140 (4 Stat. at Large, 534); 2 Birchard's
Land Laws, 727.
The appellees will cite the following authorities in upport
of the first fifteen points made by them VOL. VInL

6

62

SUPREME COURT.
Surgett v. Lapice et al.

On the 1st'point. 1 Starkie on Slander (2d Am. ed.), marginal pages 2 and 191.'
On the 2d point. Livingston v. Herman, 9 Martin, (La.)
713; 2 Cond. R. 40; Thompson v. Schlatter, 13 La. R.119; McDonogh v. Millaudon, 3 How. 693; U. S. v. King, 3 How. 773;
Code of Practice of La., p. 8, art. 30, p. 90, art. a74, p. 10, art.
41 and -43, p. 12, art, 44; Vidal v. Dupla ter, 7 La. R. 45 (8
N. S. 105); Poultney v.Cecil, 8 La. R.422; 7 How. 846; Constitution of U. S., art. 3, see. 2, and art. 7 of Amendments; Act
of Congress of 24th Sept., 1789, ch. 20, see. 16 (1 Stat. at Large,
82); Act of 26th May, 1824, ch. 181, see. 1 (4 Stat. at Large,
62); Parsons v. Bedford, 3 Pet. 433, 446; Livingston v. Story, 9 Pet. 632; Minor v. Tillotson, 2 How. 392; Phillips v.
Preston, 5 How. 278, 289.
On the 3d point. Act of 24th Sept., 1789, ch. 20, see. 12
(1 Stat. at Large, 79) ; Stat. of 13 Ed. I., ch. 31; 1 Saund. P1.
and EV. 317 and 318; Mayhew v. Soper, 10 Gill & Johns. 366;
Phillips v. Preston, 5 How. 278, 289.
=On the 4th point. Act of 24th Sept., 1789,'ch. 29, see. 22
'(1 Stat. at Large, 84); Act of 3d March, 1803, ch. 9 , see. 2 (2
Stat. at Large, 244); San Pedro, 2 Wheat. 132; Ward v. Gregory, 7 Pet. 633; Parish v. Ellis, 16 Pet. 451.
On the 5th point. Sims v. Hundley, 6 How. 1; 2 Chit.
Gen. Pr. 572; Mellish v. Richardson, 9 Bing. 126 (23 E. C. L.
R. 276).
On the 6th point. Act of 18th May, 1796, ch. 29, see. 2 (1
Stat. 'at Large, 464); Act of 3d March, 1803, ch. 40, see. 10 (2
Stat. at Large, 244); Act of 3d Mar6h, 1831, ch. 116, see. 5 (4
Stat. at-Large, 493); 1 Greenleaf's Ev., 2d ed., §§'501, 502.
- On the 7th point. The acts cited under the 6th point, and
1 Greenleaf's Ev., § 440, 441.
On the 8th point. 38th Rule of Court; Armstrong v. Toler,
11 Wheat. 277; Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Pet. 15; Carver v. Astox, 4 Pet. 1; Ex parte Martha Bradstreet, 4 Pet. 102; Magniac v. Thompson, 7 Pet. 348; Gregg v. Lessee of Sayre and
wife, 8 Pet. 244; Act of 24th April, 1820, sec. 2; Act of 10th
.May, 1800, see. 7.
On the 9th, 10th, and 11th points. Act of 15th June, 1832,
ch. 140 (4 Stat. at Large, 534).
On the 10th point, also, 9 La. R. 57.
On the 12th point. Act of 15th June, 1832, ch. 140 (4 Stat.
at Large, 534), and act of 24th Feb., 1835, ch. 24 (4 Stat.
at Large, 753). The appellants will also rely on the decision of the Secretary of the Treasury affirming the decision of
the register of the land office in this case, and will cite the de-

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

63

Surgett v. Lapice et al.

cision of the Secretary of the Treasury on the 18th of March,*
1839, in the case of Robert Ford and others. Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Pet. 450.
On the 13th point. Act of 15th June, 1832, ch. 140 (4 Stat.
at Large, 534).
On the 14th point, Act of 3d March, 1811, ch. 46, see. 5
and 10 (2 Stat. at Large, 663, 665); Act of 15th June, 1832,
ch. 140 (4 Stat. at Large, 534); Act of 24th April, 1820, ch.
51, see. 3 (3 Stat" at Large, 566).
On the 15th point. The same acts referred to in the preceding point, and Thompson v. Schlatter, 13 La. R. 119.
17th. The appellees will also contend that the petitory
action instituted by the appellant in this case cannot be maintained on the equitable title set up by him. United States v.
King, 7 How. 846; S. C., 3 How. 773.
Authorities cited by the counsel for the appellants, in reply.
The following acts of Congress were cited in reply to the
twelfth point in the brief of the appellees, to show that, in
those pregmption laws where the decision of the register and
receiver has been treated as conclusive, the power of decision
has been expressly given to the registers and receivers to determine the fact of occupancy and cultivation, without any
appeal from their decision.
Act of 31st March, 1808, see. 2 (2 Stat. at Large, 480).
Act. of 29th May, 1830, (4 Stat..at Large, 420,) upon which
the language of the court in Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498,
was founded. Act of 22d June, 1838, (5 Stat. at Large, 251,)
which was a continuation of the last-cited act. Act of 19th
June, 1834 (4 Stat. at Large, 678); also a continuation of the
act of 1830. Act of 4th Sept., 1841, sec. 11 (5 Stat. at Large,
456).
In the laws granting back pregmptions in Louisiana, there is
no power of determination given to the register and receiver.
The Circular issued from the Treasury Department, June
19th, 1801, (2 Birchard's Compilation, 226,) will be cited to
show that the abstract on page 53 and the extract from the
Sales-book, page 54, of the record, were required by the instructions from the General Land Office, and properly offered
in evidence.
Also, Commissioner's Instructions to Register, New Orleans,
&c., 2 Birchard's Comp., 374. Mr. Haywood to Registers and
Receivers, 2 ib. 465. Circular to Registers and Receivers, June
15, 1821 (2 ib. 314). And especially the Circular of 7th June,
1820, under the cash system. (Certified copy from General
Land Office.)

64

SUPREME COURT.
Surgett v. Lapice et al.

The letter of Land Commissioner to Registers and Receivers in Louisiana, in relation to the Act of 15th June, 1832,
will be referred to. 2 Birchard's Comp., 573.
Reference is also made to the last paragraph of the Circular
of 5th September, 1821, (2 Birchard's Comp., p. 356,) to
show that the certificates of the register and the receiver's receipts were to bear the same numbers, and were to be issued
in all instances in regular numerical order.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
1. Onl the facts appearing in the record, a motion was made
to dismiss the suit for want of jurisdiction, because it was
brought here by appeal, which brings before the revising court
all the- evidence; whereas, had a writ of error been brought,
such parts of the evidence only could have been considered as
were presented by bills of exception. This motion has been
held up for a length of time, and is now considered with the
merits, and the inquiry standing in advance of the merits is,
whether the appeal shall be dismissed. The suit was commenced in a State District Court according to a prescribed
form of practice in Louisiana, and removed by the defendant from the State court to the Circuit Court of the United
States, where the same mode of pleading and practice was
necessarily pursued that would have been, had the cause continued. in the State court, and been there adjudged; it therefore comes here as an anomalous case.
The proceeding was commenced by Lapice and Whittlesey;
they asked to have a cloud removed from their title, which
they alleged was embarrassed by a pretended and illegal claim'.
of Surgett to a back concession, of dnterior date to their title,
and for the same land. Surgett came in, and set forth his
claim; it was purely equitable in its character, in the sense
of the term. "1equity," as denominated in the Constitution
and acts of Congress; this claim Surgett, (by a petition in his
answer,) by way of reconvention, asked to have enforced
against Lapice and Whittlesey. He thereby became complainant. The character of Lapice and Whittlesey's title is not in
controversy; both sides admit that it is a legal and valid title
on its face, and as against the United States indisputable;
but Surgett sets up a right of preference to entry of the same
land at the time when the entries were made under which Lapice and Whittlesey claim, and the question is, how was the
Circuit Court to deal with the matter when an appeal or writ
of error was demanded, as the one or the other the judge
was compelled to allow; he was called on for a decree by

JANUARY TERM, 1-850.

65

et al.
Surgett v. Lapice

each party, as on 'bill and cross-bill in an ordinary chancery
proceeding, and did decree that Lapice and Whittlesey should
be quieted in their title to, and possesion of, the land in controversy, and that Surgett should be for ever enjoined from setting
up any claim or pretension to the same; and so he might have
decreed the other way; and although, by the laws of Louisiana, a jury might have been called in a State court to aid in
ascertaining the facts, yet as none was required by the parties
in the Circuit Court, and the cause was heard by the court
alone, and a decree rendered', we think the mere fact that a
State court might employ a jury does not affect the character of the proceedings actually had in the Circuit Court. In
other States, juries are frequently employed by the chancellors
when hearing causes, as in Kentucky, where it is required by
a statute; yet if an ordinary suit in equity was removed from
a State court to the Circuit Court (United States), in a district
where, by the State statutes, a jury was required to find contested facts; still the Circuit Court would not be required to
resort to a jury, nor could it do so. And we take occasion
here to say, that, had the Circuit Court submitted the cause
to a jury in this instance, we should have deemed it improper,
although demanded by either side. Our opinion, therefore, is,
that there was litigated in the Circuit Court a mere equitable
title, in a form impressed on the proceeding in a State court,
and a decree pronounced as a court of equity would have
done in a regular course of proceeding in chancery; and that
the merits of the cause could only be reviewed on appeal.
But as several cases have been dismissed from this court
because they were brought here by appeal instead of a writ
of error, it 'is insisted that this rests on. the same grounds of
those that have been dismissed, and the case of the United
States v. King (3 and 7 How. 773 and S44) has been much
relied on to show that this cause cannot be brought here by appeal. But that was not an action of title to quiet the plaintiff
in possession of his land, but was a petitory action brought
by the United States to recover land which was in the possession of the defendant, and to which the United States
claimed a legal title. The suit was in the nature of an ejectment in a court of common law, and was therefore strictly
an action at law, and in no respect analogous to a proceeding
in equity to remove a cloud from the title of a party who
not only holds the legal title, but is also actually in possession of the land in dispute; and as the United States cannot
be sued in reconvention, if the defendant had claimed an
equitable title in that case, it would have been no defence,
6*

66

SUPREME

COURT.

-Surgett v. Lapice et al.

because ihecould not malee the United States a defendant,
and himself a plaintiff, by a suit in reconvention. The whole
proceedings were necessarily proceedings at law, and could
therefore be removed by writ of error only, and not by appeal. And substantially of the same character were all. the
cases relied ol by counsel to dismiss this appeal; none of them
resembled the case before us in any material degree, - certainly not enough to govern it, - and the jurisdiction is cotasequently sustained.
. 2. We come in the next place to discuss the merits; and
here some general considerations present themselves. On the
first settlement of Lower Louisiana, the nature of the country
imposed on the governments who successively held it a peculiar policy in granting land to individual proprietors ; the Mississippi River overflowed its banks annually, and to overcome
this impediment to cultivation, and to reclaim the back lands,
heavy embankments had to be thrown up on the sides of the
river, so as to keep the water at flood-tide within the channel ;
and these embankments had to be connected afid continuous
for a great distance, otherwise the' whole country would be
submerged; and the king's domain was resorted to as a means
of securing the country from overflow, and of reclaiming it to a
great extent; and individual proprietors-were relied on to do
that which, in other countries at all similarly situated, was a
great national work*: and it is matter of surprise how much
the policy accomplished with such feeble, and questionable
means. The grants were not large, and fronted on the river
only to the extent of from two to eight arpens as a general
rule, and almost uniformly extended- forty arpens back; to
these front grants the Spanish government reserved the back
lands, to another depth of forty arpens; and although few if
any grants were made of back lands in favor of front proprietors, still they were never granted by the Spanish government
to any other proprietor, but used for the purpose of obtaining
fuel and for pasturage by the front owners, so that, for all practical purposes, they were the beneficial proprietors ; - subject to
the policy of levees, and of guarded protection to front owners. We took possession of Lower Louisiana in 1804. In
1805, commissioners were appointed, according to an act of
Congress, to report on the French and Spanish claims in that
section of country, and by the act of April 21st, 1806, it was
made a part of their duty "to inquire into the nature and extent of the claims which may arise from a right, or supposed
right, to a double or additional concession on the back of grants
or concessions heretofore made," previous to the transfer of

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

67

Surgett v. Lapice et al.

government, "and to make a special report thereon'to the Secretary of the Treasury, which report shall be by him laid bef6re Corigress, at their next ensuing session. And the lands
which may be embraced by such report shall not be otherwise
di~posed' of, Until a decision of Congress shall have been had
thereoil'
I The commissioners were engaged nearly six years in the various and complicated duties imposed on them, and then reported, that, by the laws and usages of the Spanish government, no front proprietor by his own act could acquire a right
to land farther back than the ordinary depth of forty arpens,
and although that government invariably refused to grant the
second depth to any other than the front proprietor, yet noth-"
ing short of a grant or warrant of survey from the Governor
could confer a title or right to ihe land; wherefore they rejected claims for the second depth, as not having passed as private
property to the front proprietor under the stipulations of the
treaty by which Louisiana was acquired. As by the Spanish
policy and usages the front owner had reserved to him a preference to become the purchaser of the si'cond depth, Congress
by the fifth section-of the act of March 3, 1811, provided that
every person who "owns a tract of land bordering on any river, creek, bayou, or water-course," in the Territory of Orleans,
"C
and not exceeding in depth forty arpens, French measure,
shall be entitled to a preference in becoming the purchaser of
any vacant tract of land adjacent to, and back of, his own
tract, not exceeding forty arpens, French measure, in depth,
nor in quantity of land that which is contained in his own
tract, at the same price, and on the same terms and conditions,
as are, or may be, provided by law for the other public lands
in the said Territory." And inasmuch as the country had
not to any material extent been prepared for sale in the ordinary mode by public surveys; it was made the duty of the principal deputy surveyor of each of the two districts in the Orleans Territory, to cause to be surveyed the preference rights
claimed under the act; and where, by reason of bends in the
river, bayou, creek; or water-course on which a front tract bordered, and where there were similarly situated tracts, so that
each claimant could not obtain a quantity equal to his front
grant, it was made the duty of the surveyor to divide the vacant land between the several claimants in such manner as to
him might appear most equitable.
To gratify pre6mption
claims secured by the act, no township surveys in advance of
an entry were contemplated, as they could not be r6garded did
they exist; and as the act was limited to three years' duration,

68

SUPREME -COURT.
Surgett v. Lapice et al.

little of the country was likely to be surveyed before the time
for making entries expired. By the seventh section of the act
of May 11, 1820, the fifth section of the act of March 3, 1811,
was renewed, and continued in force until May 11, 1822; and
by the'act of June 15, 1832, the act of 181I was again renewed for three years, with some slight amendments; and by the
act of February 24, 1835, the time was further extended 'to
June 15, 1836.
The township where the land in dispute is situated was offered for sale, according to the President's proclamation, in November, 1829; and as Surgett first offered to make his entry in
1836, it is insisted that, after the lands in the township were
offered at public sale, no entry founded on a preference right
was allowable at the land office ; and such was the opinion of
the court below, and is one of the reasons assigned for rejecting Surgett's claim. The act of 1832 provides, that the claimant shall deliver his notice of claim to the register of the proper land office, stating the extent and situation of the tract he
wishes to purchase, and shall make payment; but it has this
proviso, - that all notices of claim shall be entered, and the
money be paid thereon, at least three weeks before such period
as may be designated by the proclamation of the President for
the sale of the public lands in the township where such claim
may be situated; and all claims not so entered shall be liable
to be sold as other public lands. The proviso was an exception to a general law giving a right of entry; it was prospective, having reference to future public sales, and not to lands
that had' been previously offered, and remained utisold ; Surgett could not comply with the condition, nor had it any application to such a case as his claim presents.
The manifest object of Congress was to disembarrass public
sales by barring preference rights that would be a cloud on
the title of lands thus offered.
The foregoing construction being the one adopted by the departments of public lands soon after the act of 1S32 went into
operation, we should feel ourselves restrained, unless the error
of construction was plainly manifest, from disturbing the practice prescribed by the Commissionei of the General Land Office, acting in accordance with the opinion of the AttorneyGeneral, and which had the sanction of the Secretary of the
Treasury and of the President of the United States.
The court below rejected Surge-s claim to enter the back
land on another ground. The acts of Congress securing the
preference contain an exception, -" that the right of preemption shall not extend so far in depth as -to include lands fit for

JANUARY-TERM,

1850.

69

Surgett v. Lapice et al.

cultivation bordering on another river, creek, bayou, or watercourse." And the question is, To what description of waterThe enacting clause procourse did the legislature refer?
g
vides that every person who owns a tract of land "borderin "
on any river, creek, bayou, or water-course, shall have the right
of predmption to the back land. The act of 1811 has been
construed, in the department of public lands, for nearly forty
years, to mean that those owners whose lands fronted on a navigable stream were only provided for; and that the word "border," both in the enacting clause and in the exception, meant
to front on a navigable water-course; that is to say, such waters as are described in the third section of the act of February
20, 1811, by which Louisiana was authorized t6 form a State
constitution and government, by which act the River Mississippi, and the navigable rivers and waters leading into the same,
or into the Gulf of Mexico, were declared to be common highways, and for ever free, as well to the inhabitants of the said
State, as to other citizens of the United States.
Similar provisions as respects navigable waters are common
to other States where there are public lands, and the practice
has been uniform to survey and sell the lands "bordering" on
navigable streams as fractional sections; nor is the channel
ever sold to a private owner. Of necessity, it had to be left
almost exclusively to the department of lands executing the
public surveys to ascertain what stream was navigable, and
should be bordered by fractions and reserved from sale; and,
on the other hand, what waters were not navigable, and should
be included in square sections, and the channel sold. The
registers and receivers were bound by recorded returns of
the surveyors, (as a concluded fact,) to. sell according to the
surveys, nor could the register and receiver be allowed to
hear evidence contradicting the surveys, as to whether the waters included by them were or were not navigable. Subject to
this state of the law, Surgett offered (20th May, 1836) to enter
the back land to front numbers 2S, 29, 30, 31, 32, and 33; making 9 9 --- acres, which lots adjoin, and were included in one
patent, together with two other lots, Nos. 34 and 35, also adjoining on the south, to which he did not claim any back land;
9
that is to say, he claimed 9 S oU acres as a back concession to
3
a patent of 1, 0SrF acres, so as to extend the six lots first
named; and if neither the bayou, nor the existence of previous
entries, stood, in the way, he had a clear right to enter. Sparrow and Whittlesey's entries were in part fractions, not, however, produced by having bordered on a stream, but because
they adjoined front lots on the Mississippi River not surveyed

70

SUPREME COURT.
Surgett v. Lapice et al.

in squares, but according to the second section of the act of
March 3, 1811.
In surveying township number five, the Mill Bayou was entirely disregarded, and the surveys of sections and quarter-sec-'
tions were made in rectangular figures, and laid down and sold
across that water, the channel of which was granted in part to
Sparrow and Whittlesey, and in part to others. According to
the rules, therefore, by which the register and receiver were
governed, they had no right to refuse Surgett's entry for the
reason that the land bordered on another navigable stream.
Hov far the powers of. the court below extended to contradict the public surveys and records of the land office, we refrain from discussing in this case,-as the parties on the one side
and on the other affirmatively appealed to a court of justice
to decide the fact, whether the bayou was of the description
contemplated by the acts of Congress, and a water-course on
which lands could front. It is between two and three miles
long, and drains swamps, and a shallow pond, or rather lagoon;
its greatest width is from seventy to eighty feet from bank to
bank, and the channel in part is some fifteen feet deep from
the top of its banks; but at no time of the year has it any
claims to be a navigable stream, being nearly dry for a greater
portion of the year, having no running water, or any water in
it, except stagnant pools; it is an ordinary drain of the Mississippi swamp, and of shallow ponds. Near its mouth, at the
Mississippi River, there is a levee, - and so there is one near to
the pond, at its farther end from the river; both levees being
on lands granted to Surgett. Before the lower levee was constructed, there had been a mill for grinding erected on the
bayou, which gave it the name it bears; the flow of water was
then from the Mississippi River *through this outlet to the
swamp, in times when the river was high. But it was never
fit for any purpose, as a channel through which commerce
could be carried on by water. The ground of defence must
therefore fail, that the lands entered by Sparrow and Whittlesey bordered on a bayou, and were within the exception of the
act of 1832.
The Circuit Court also held that the back land was proved
to be fit for cultivation, and being so, was excepted from the
dnacting clause giving a preference of entry. The exception
is, ' that the right of preEmption shall not extend so far in
depth as to include lands fit for cultivation bordering on another river, creek, bayou, or water-course."
There is no break in
the sentence, and we hold that Congress clearly intended to
make a single exception, whereas the court below divided the

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

71

Surgett v. Lapice et al.

clause cited into two exceptions; excluding a preference right,
first, if a bayou, &c. intervened; and, secondly, if the land was
fit for cultivation, whether there was a navigable water in its
rear, or not.
We only deem it necessary on this head to say, that, from
1811 to this time, the general land office has construed the exception as being single, requiring that the back land should
border on another navigable stream; and also, that it should lie
fit for cultivation, before the preference of entry could be denied; and we take occasion here to declare, that, unless this
uniform construction for so long a time by the land department
was most manifestly wrong, we should not feel ourselves at liberty to disturb it, as, by doing so, titles might be shaken, and
confusion produced.
For the reasons stated, it is ordered that the decree of the
Circuit Court be reversed, and that the cause be remanded to
that court, with directions to enter a decree for the plaintiff in
reconvention, Surgett; and that court is directed to cause a survey to be made under its supervision, laying off the back land
to lots Nos. 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, and 33, according to the practice
in use in like cases in the surveyors' offices in Louisiana. And
it is further ordered, that said Surgett may be decreed to be the
legal owner of said land, to the extent that the lands of said
Peter M. Lapice and the heirs of Edward Whittlesey interfere
with a survey legally made of said back lands; and that said
Lapice and the representatives of said Whittlesey be decreed
to convey to said Francis Surgett such parts of the lands included in the survey as are embraced by any of the entries or
patents set forth in the original petition of said Lapice and Whittlesey; and that said Surgett may be quieted in his title and
possession of the lands hereby decreed. And it is further ordered, that said Lapice and Whittlesey's representatives recover
from said Francis Surgett after the rate of one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre, for all the land that they are deprived of
by this decree, with interest on said sum after the rate of five
per centnm per annum from the 10th day of May, 1836, until
paid ; and that said amount shall be ordered to be paid forthwith into court, subject to the order of said Lapice and Whittlesey's representatives; nor shall said decree be executed until
the money is paid. And it is further ordered, that said Lapice
and Whittlesey's representatives shall pay the costs of the appeal to this court ; but that the costs of the Circuit Court,
which have already accrued, and such as may hereafter accrue,
shall be adjudged by the court below, on a future hearing, as
law and justice may require. And it is further ordered, that in

SUPREME COURT.
Surgctt v. Lapice et al.

all matters that may arise in said cause, and in respect to which
no special directions are given by this decree, the Circuit Court
shall proceed according to the law and equity of the various
matters presented, without being restrained by this decree.
Ordei.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is ordered, that the decree of the Circuit Court
be reversed, and that this cause be remanded to that court,
with directions to enter a decree for the plaintiff in reconvenion, Surgett; and that court 'shall cause a survey to be made
under its direction, laying off the back land to lots Nos. 28, 29,
30, 31, 32, and 33, according to the practice in use in like cases
in the- surveyors' offices in Louisiana. And it is further ordered, that said Surgett may be decreed to be the legal owner
of said land, to the extent that the lands of said Peter M. Lapice and the heirs of Edward Whittlesey interfere with a survey legally made of said back lands, and that said Lapice and
the representatives of said Whittlesey be decreed to convey to
said Francis Surgett such parts of the lands included in the
survey as are embraced by any of the entries or patents set
forth in the original petition of said Lapice and Whittlesey; and
that said Surgett may be quieted in his title and possession of
the lands hereby decreed. And it is further ordered, that said
Lapice and Whittlesey's representatives recover from said Francis Surgett after the rate of one dollar and twenty-five cents per
acre for all the laud that they are deprived of by this decree,
with interest on said sum after the rate of five per centum per
annum, from the 10th day of May, 1836, until paid; and that
said amount shall be ordered to be paid forthwith into court,
subject to the order of said Lapice and Whittlesey's representatives; nor shall said decree be executed until the money is
paid. And it is further ordered, that said Lapice and Whittlesev's representatives shall pay the costs of the appeal to this
court ; but that the costs of the Circuit Court which have already accrued, and such as may hereafter accrue, shall be adjudged by the court below, on a future hearing, as law and justice may require. And it is further ordered, thbt in all matters
that may arise in said cause, and in respect to wich no special
directions are given by this decree, the Circulit Court shall proceed according to the law and equity of the varus matters
presented, without being restrained by this decree.

