JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

Nathan v. Louisiana.

AsiEREM.

NATHAN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,
LOUISIANA.

V.

THE

STATE

OF

A tax imposed by a State upon all money or exchange brokers is not void for repugnance to the constitutional power of Congress to regulate commerce.

Foreign bills of exchange are instruments of commerce, it is true; but so also are
the products of agriculture or manufactures, over which the taxing power of a
State extends until they are separated from the general mass of property by becoming exports.
A State has a right to ntx its own citizens for the prosecution of aniy particular business or profession within the State.
Banks deal in bills of exchange, and this court has recognized the power of a State
to tax banks, where there is no clause of exemption in their charters.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Louisiana, by a writ of error issued under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act.
On the 26th of M1arch, 1842, the State of Louisiana passed
an act to increase the revenue of the State, the ninth section
of which provided that "each and every money or exchange
broker shall hereafter pay an annual tax of $ 250 to the State,
in lieu of the tax heretofore imposed on them."
On the 3d of February, 1845, Isaac T. Preston, the Attorney-General of the State, filed a petition in the District Court
of the first judicial district, stating that A. M. Nathan was
justly indebted to the petitioner in the sum of $ 250, for pursuing or having lately pursued, within the year 1843, the business of a money and exchange broker. The petition then
prayed that he might be cited to appear and answer, and
be condemned to pay; also that he might answer the following interrogatories under oath, viz. :"Were you a broker, as above stated, in 1843?
"Did you or not receive brokerage or commissions?
"State clearly the nature of the same; whether received in
money transactions."
The same process was pursued to collect the tax for 1844.
On the 19th of April, 1845, the two suits were consolidated
and the defendant answered as follows.
" The defendant for answer denies generally all the allegations in the plaintifPs petition contained. And further answering, he says, that so much of such parts of I An act to increase
the revenue of the State,' under and by virtue of which this
suit is brought to recover of this defendant the tax thereby
imposed upon the business of a money and exchange broker.
and especially the ninth section thereof, particularly referred
to in the plaintiffs petition, so far as the said section and act
impose a tax on that part of the business of a money and ex-

VOL. VIII.

7

74

SUPREME COURT.
Nathan v. Louisiana.

change broker which consists in buying and selling exchange,
the same is contrary to and in violation of so much.and such
parts of the Constitution of the United States as give to Congress the exclusive power to regulate commerce, and prohibit
to the States all interference with the power so granted, and
forbid them to impose, without consent of Congress, any duty
on inposts or exports.
"And so far as the said section and act impose a tax on that
part of the business of a money and exchange broker which
consists in buying and selling money or foreign coin, or other
currency, the same is contrary to and in violation of so much
and such parts of the Constitution of the United States as
gives to Congress the exclusive power 'to coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coin.'
"And so far as said section imposes a tax, not uniform in
amount with other State taxes on occupations, respondent
avers, that the same is contrary to so much of the treaties,
laws, and Constitution of the United. States as reserve and
guarantee to the inhabitants of Louisiana all the rights, advantages, and immunities of citizens of the United States, particularly that of uniform taxation; and to so much of said
Constitution as reserves to the people of the several States all
powers not delegated to' the States respectively, or to the
Union.
"1Wherefore he prays, that the plaintiff's demand be dismissed, with costs, and for all other and general relief which
his case may require.
(Signed,)
RICHARD HENRY WILDE,
Defendant's Attorney.
A. K. JOSEPHS.
H. H. STRAWBRIDGE."
A. M. Nathan, defendaht, for answer to the interrogatories
to him propounded in the above entitled suit, says:"1Iwas a money and exchange broker in 1843 and 1844;
I received a brokerage or commissions on money and bills of
exchange sold by my agency.
"I will state clearly the nature of the same. My business,
like that of money and exchange brokers in general, consists
exclusively in negotiating and effecting for others the purchase
and sale of exchange on other States or foreign countries.
During the thirty years that I have been a money and exchange broker, I believe,-nay, I am certain, - that I have
never, as such, sold a single bill drawn from one point of
Louisiana on another.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

75

Nathan v. Louisiana.

"I make myself acquainted with the current market value
of exchanges. The purchasers and the sellers both resort to
me for information on the state of the market of exchanges,
and make me their common agent in the purchase and sale
of bills, which are purchased for the purpose of making remittances to foreign parts, and usually so remitted immediately.
On and out of the price of each bill, I receive a percentage or
commission, varying from one fourth to one eighth of one per
cent., which is commonly paid on settlement. It is the same
in money transactions.
(Signed,)
A. M. NATHAN."
On the 7th of June, 1845, the District Court decreed that
the State of Louisiana should recover of the defendant, A. M.
Nathan, the sum of five hundred dollars, and costs of suit.
An appeal was had to the Supreme Court of Louisiana,
which, on the 15th of December, 1845, affirmed the judgment
of the District Court. The defendant sued out a writ of error,
and brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Wilde (in a printed argument), for
the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Coxe, for the defendant.

Mr. Wilde contended, that the law of Louisiana was repugnant to thle Constitution of the Uniied States, because it interfered with the exclusive power of Congress to regulate
commerce.
Congress has the exclusive power to regulate commerce.
The power to regulate implies the power to preserve. An
unlimited power to tax is a power to destroy. A State
cannot have the power to impair or destroy that which
Congress has the power to preserve and regulate: therefore,
a State cannot tax the instruments whereby Congress exercises its constitutional powers. 4 Wheat. 428, 432.
Exchange is a necessary instrument of commerce.
4
Wheat. 147; 13 Peters, 531, 548, 563, 606.
The mind cannot conceive- the possibility of carrying on
commerce, in the present state of the world, without bills of
exchange.
A bill drawn in one State, on the citizen of another, is a
foreign bill. Buckner v. Finley, 2 Peters, 586.
The sole business of plaintiff in error, therefore, is buying
and selling foreign exchange. See answer to interrogatories.
There is not a particle of testimony that he deals in domestic exchange, or in money. The court, consequently, in
adjudging against him, could only have proceeded, and did, in

76

SUPREME COURT.
Nathan v. Louisiana.

fact, proceed, upon the ground that, as a dealer in foreign exchange exclusively, he was subject to the tax; and that the
act imposing it was constitutional.
Now, there is no difference between taxing the article and
taxing the faculty to sell it. 4 Wheat. 399; 12 Wheat. 444.
. To tax the- trade or faculty of selling bills of exchange,
then, is the same thing as to tax the bills themselves.
To tax bills of exchange is to tax a necessary instrument
of commerce, and taxing that without which commerce cannot be carried on is imposing a tax on commerce itself. It is
no answer to say, that the impost is moderate, though in the
present case it is, in fact, excessive, because, if the State can
tax at all, it may tax indefinitely, and an indefinite power
to tax is a power to destroy. 4 Wheat. 428, 432.
Exchange is as necessary an instrument of commerce as
ships or vessels.
Could the State of Louisiana levy a tax, in the shape of
a license, to every consignee or ship-broker in the city of New
Orleans, prohibiting' captains of vessels, and all others, from
acting as consignees without such license?
Would it avail the State to say, such an imposition is not
a tax on commerce, nor a duty on ships and vessels, but only
a license on the faculty of acting as consignee on the trade
of ship-broker?
All useful regulation does not consist in restraint or taxation.
That which Congress, in the exercise of their constitutional
power, think proper to leave fi'ee, is as much regulated by
them, as that which they restrain or tax. 9 Wheat. 18. Were
it not so, it would not be an exercise of the power to "lay
duties," when certain goods are allowed to be imported duty
free. Could a State tax the introduction of such goods?
Where there is a repugnancy between the State power to
tax, and the Federal power to preserve, regulate, and leave
free, the State power must give way. If the State can tax
in such a case, Congress is not supreme. 4 Wheat. 429, 432,
433.
A State can have no concurrent power over that in regard
to which the power of Congress is exclusive. What sort of
concurrent powers would those be which cannot exist together? 9 Wheat. 15.
Congress has no power of revoking State laws, as a distinct and substantive power. It legislates over subjects, and
over those subjects which are within its constitutional province its legislation is supreme, and overrules all inconsistent
or repugnant State legislation. 9 Wheat. 30.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

77

Nathan v. Louisiana.

Its exclusive power to regulate commerce carries with it
the power- to regulate exchange as an indispensable instrument
of commerce, and the power being exclusive, a concurrent
power in the State is a contradiction.
"Commerce in its simplest signification means an exchange
of goods : but in the advancement of society, labor, transportation, intelligence, care, and various mediums of exchange,
become commodities, and enter into commerce; the subject,
the vehicle, the agent, an ",air various operations, become the
objects of commercial regulation." - Mr. Justice Johnson, in
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 229, 230.
Thus it has been resolved, that a steamer employed in transporting passengers is as much engaged in commerce, as a sail
vessel freighted with merchandise, and as much exempt from
State legislation obstructing her traffic. Gibbons v. Ogden,
9 Wheat. 215, 219.
Congress have not only the exclusive power to regulate commerce, but to make all laws which shall be necessary for carrying into execution that power.
(Mr. Wilde then proceeded to show that exchange was an
essential part of commerce, and cited many decisions of this
court to prove that a State could not retard, impede, or burden,
by any device, the operation of the" constitutional laws enacted
by Congress.)
Mr.Coxe, for defendant in error.
The power of taxing persons carrying on a particular business has been often exercised, and the constitutional power of
the States so to act has heretofore not been questioned. In
Pennsylvania, for instance, the venders of foreign merchandise
are compelled to take out a license, for which they pay a sum
graduated according to the amount of their business. Act of
May 4, 1841; Purdon, 1153, 1154. A similar tax is imposed
frequently by State legislatures, and even by the corporate authorities of cities, and is supposed to be unexceptionable as to
its legality.
The provision of the Louisiana statute, which is now called
in question, is to be found in a.single section of a general revenue system act.
It does not profess to, nor in fact does it, impose a tax upon a
bill of exchange, either in the shape of a stamp duty or otherwise.
It does not profess to, nor in fact does it, impose any restraint upon a party having funds in Louisiana, which he desires to remit abroad, from purchasing a bill of exchange as the
instrument of remittance.
7*

78

SUPREME COURT.
Nathan v. Louisiana.

It does not profess to, nor in fact does it, impose any restraint upon a party having 'funds abroad, which he desires to
bring into the State, from drawing a bill of exchange or selling it at his own discretion.
These operations are left wholly unaffected by this law.
The section of the law which is objected to acts only upon
the persons employed in conducting a particular business, the trafficking in exchange. They are not the drawers of bills
of exchange,as such, they are not taxed; as buyers, they
are not taxed ; but as dealing in them, purchasing and selling,
they are. It is as their business consists in buying bills drawn
by others, on which they make a profit, - as sellers of bills to
others, who require them, on which they make a profit, - that
they become subject to the law.
That money and exchange brokers are a convenient machine
in conducting an extensive commercial business may be true.
But they are nothing more. A ship or a steamboat is not only
a convenient, but an essential, means of importing foreign merchandise from abroad. Are they the less property, and taxable

as such?
Stages and other carriages are not less essentially necessary
instruments for the transportation of passengers and commodities between the different States of the Union.
Are they
therefore exempted from taxation by the States?
Stores and warehouses, in which merchandise is deposited
on its arrival in our country from abroad, are absolutely necessary for the transaction of commercial business. Are they
therefore beyond the reach of the taxing power of the State
in which this kind of property is found?
Mr. Hamilton (Federalist, No. 32) says :-" I am willing to
allow, in its full extent, 'the justness of the reasoning which
requires that the individual States should possess an independent and uncontrollable authority to raise their own revenue
for the supply of their own wants; and, making this concession, I affirm that (with the single exception of duties on imports and exports) they would, under the plan of the Constitution, retain that authority in the most absolute and unqualified
sense; and that an attempt on the part of the general government to abridge them in the exercise of it would be a violent
assumption of power, unwarranted by any article or clause in
the Constitution."
In this case, the law of Louisiana is not obnoxious to any of
the objections which have been heretofore presented to the
consideration of the court, growing out of the difficulty of
giving a precise definition of the words "imports and exports,"

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

79

Nathan v. Louisiana.

and "commerce," or in drawing the almost shadowy lines which
mark the boundaries of the exclusive powers of Congress. A
bill of exchange is in no sense either an export or import. It
is an instrument, rather than a subject of commerce. The
dealing in bills of exchange constitutes no part of the commerce with foreign nations or between the States, however
convenient an instrument it may be found in conducting either.
The article in which the plaintiff in error deals is a bill of exchange, originating, it may be, within the limits of the State,
created and owned by a citizen of the State, and the entire
negotiation of which, so far as he is concerned, conducted
within the limits of the State.
If this law is objectionable because it affects bills of exchange on the ground that they are the subjects of commerce,
upon what principle, it may be asked, can the validity of those
State laws be vindicated which regulate the protest of such instruments, or prescribe damages for their dishonor? These are
commercial regulations, affecting the interests of all parties to
these instruments.
Stress seems to be laid, in the argument submitted on behalf
of the plaintiff in error, on the circumstance that the business
of his client was exclusively confined to buying and selling
bills of exchange drawn on foreign countries or upon other
States. He refers to 4 Wheaton, 147, in which a learned
counsel in his argument says, that the most important medium
of foreign commerce is foreign bills of exchange, which are,
therefore, important subjects of commercial regulation. The
same gentleman, however, adds, that Congress having neglected the duty of legislating on the subject, "the States may and
do exercise it, and their rightful use of this power has been
sanctioned by this court in innumerable instances." If there
was any argument in the first citation bearing upon the case at
bar, the additional remark makes the authority a strong one
in favor of the judgment under review. Indeed, it may be asserted as a general, if not a universal proposition, that the law
on the subject of bills of exchange, whether domestic or
foreign, is regulated not by Congress, but is dependent on the
local law of the several States, which have adopted, with such
modifications as were thought expedient, the general principles
of the commercial law of Europe.
Mfr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit is brought before us, by a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Louisiana.
By an act of the Legislature of Louisiana, of the 26th of

80

SUPREME COURT.
Nathan v. Louisiana.

March, 1842, entitled "An act relative to the revenue of the
State," it is provided in the ninth section, that "each and every
money or exchange broker shall hereafter pay an annual tax of
$ 250 to the State, in lieu of the tax heretofore imposed on
them." The defendant below having failed to pay the tax
for two years, a suit was brought against him in the District
Court of the State, in which a judgment for .five hundred dollars was rendered. That judgment, on an appeal to the Supreme Court of the State, was affirmed. The defence made
vas, that the sole business of the defendant was buying and
selling foreign bills of exchange, which are instruments of
commerce, and that the tax is repugnant to the constitutional
power of Congress "to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States."
This is not a tax on bills of exchange. Under the law, every
person is free to buy or sell bills of exchange, as may be necessary in his business transactions; but he is required to pay
the tax if lie engage in the business of a money or an exchange broker.
The right of a State to tax its own citizens for the prosecution of any particular business or profession, within the State,
has not been doubted. And we find that in every State money
or exchange brokers, venders of merchandise of our own or
foreign manufacture, retailers of ardent spirits, tavern-keepers, auctioneers, those who practise the learned professions,
and every description of property, not exempted by law, are
taxed.
As an exchange broker, the defendant had a right to deal in
every description of paper, and in every kind of money; but it
seems his business was limited to foreign bills of exchange.
Money is admitted to be an instrument of commerce, and so is
a bill of exchange; and upon this ground, it is insisted that a
tax upon an exchange broker is a tax upon the instruments of
commerce.
What is there in the products of agriculture, of mechanical
ingenuity, of manufactures, which may not become the means
of commerce? And is the vender of -these products exempted
from State taxation, because they may be thus used? Is a tax
upon a ship, as property, which is admitted to be an instrument
of commerce, prohibited to a State? May it not tax the business of ship-building, the same as the exercise of any other
mechanical art ? and also the traffic of ship-chandlers, and
others, who furnish the cargo of the ship and the necessary
supplies? There can be but one answer to these questions.
No one can claim an exemption from a general tax on his

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

81

Nathan v. Louisiana.

business, within the State, on the ground that the products sold
may be used in commerce.
No State can tax an export or an import as such, except under the limitations of the Constitution. But before the article
becomes an export, or after it ceases to be an import, by being
mingled with other property in the State, it is a subject of taxation by the State. A cotton-broker may be required to pay a
tax upon his business, or by way of license, although he may
buy and sell cotton for foreign exportation.
A bill of exchange is neither an export nor an import. It
is not transmitted through the ordinary channels of commerce,
but through the mail. It is a note merely ordering the payment of money, which may be negotiated by indorsement, and
the liability of the names that are on it depends upon certain
acts to be done by the holder, when it becomes payable.
The dealer in bills of exchange requires capital and credit.
He generally draws the instrument, or it is drawn at his instance, when he is desirous of purchasing it. The bill is worth
more or less; as the rate of exchange shall be between the
place where it is drawn and where it is made payable. This
rate is principally regulated by the expense of transporting the
specie from the one place to the other, influenced somewhat by
the demand and supply of specie. Now the individual who
uses his money and credit in buying and selling bills of exchange, and who thereby realizes a profit, may be taxed by a
State in proportion to his income, a other persons are taxed, or
in the form of a license. He is not engaged in commerce, but
in supplying an instrument of commerce. He is less connected
with it than the ship-builder, without whose labor foreign commerce cofild not be carried on.
In the case of Briscoe v. The Bank of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, 11 Peters, 257, this court held that a State has
power to incorporate a bank; and this power has been exercised
by every State in the Union, except where it has been prohibited by its constitution. And the banks established, it is believed, have been, without exception, authorized to deal m
foreign bills of exchange. And this court held in Providence
Bank v. Billings and Pitman, 4 Peters, 514, that a State had
power to tax a bank, there being no clause in the charter exempting it from taxation. In the case of The Bank of Augusta
v. Earle, 13 Peters, 519, it was decided that the bank established
in Georgia, having a right in its charter to deal in bills of exchange, could, through its agent and the comity of Alabama,
buy and sell bills in that State.
If a tax on the business of an exchange broker, who buys

82

SUPREME

COURT.

Nathan v. Louisiana.

and sells foreign bills of exchange, be repugnant to the commercial power of the Union, all taxes on banks which deal in
bills of exchange, by a State, must be equally repugnant.
The Constitution declares that no State shall impair the obligations of a contract, and there is no other limitation on State
power in regard to contracts. In determining on the nature
and effect of a contract, we look to the lex loci where it was
made or where it was to be performed. And bills of exchange,
foreign or domestic, constitute, it would seem, no exception to
this rule. Some of the States have adopted the law merchant,
others have not. The time within which a demand must be
made on a bill, a protest entered, and notice given, and the
damages to be recovered, vary with the usages and legal
enactments of the different States. These laws, in various
forms and in numerous cases, have been sanctioned by this
court. Indorsers on a protested bill are held responsible for
damages, under the law of the State where the indorsement was
made.
Every indorsement on a bill is a new contract, governed by the local law. Story's Conflict of Laws, 314.
For the purposes of revenue, the Federal government has
taxed bills of exchange, foreign and domestic, and promissory
notes, whether issued by individuals or banks. Now the Federal government can no more regulate the commerce of a State,
than a State can regulate the commerce of the Federal government; and domestic bills or promissory notes are as necessary
to the commerce of a State, as foreign bills to the commerce of
the Union. And if a tax on an exchange broker, who deals in
foreign bills, be a regulation of foreign commerce, or commerce
among the States, much more would a tax upon State paper,
by Congress, be a tax on the commerce of a State.
The taxing power of a State is one of its attributes of sovereignty. And where there has been no compact with the Federal
government, or cession of jurisdiction for the purposes specified
in the Constitution, this power reaches all the property and
business within the State, which are not properly denominated
the means of the general government; and, as laid down by
this court, it may be exercised at the discretion of the State.
The only restraint is found in the responsibility of the members of the legislature to their constituents.
If this power of taxation by a State within its jurisdiction
may be restricted beyond the limitations stated, on the ground
that the tax may have some indirect bearing on foreign commerce, the resources of a State may be thereby essentially impaired. But State power does not rest on a basis so undefinable. Whatever exists within its territorial limits in the form

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

83

The United States v. Buchanan.

of property, real or personal, with the exceptions stated, is sub-

ject to its laws; and also the numberless enterprises in which
its citizens may be engaged. These are subjects of State regulation and State taxation, and there is no Federal power under
the Constitution which can impair this exercise of State sovereignty.
We think the law of Louisiana imposing the tax in question
is not repugnant to any power of the Federal gov.ernment, and
consequently the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State
is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record. from the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
affirmed, with costs.

TEE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERRiot, v. McKEAN BucHANAN.
Commissions for drawing bills of exchange were not usually allowed to permanent
pursers in the nivy; and on the 10th of November, 1826, commissions for such
services to commanders of squadrons and officers of any grade were expressly
abolished.
A custom cannot be set up against a settled rule; nor can it ever be binding unless
it be ancient, reasonable, generally known, and certain.
There are two books for the government of the officers of the navy, usually known
as the "Blue Book" and the "Red Book." The "Red Book," although later in
date, did not repeal the "Blue Book," except in some few specified particulars.
The duty of paying mechanics and laborers at the navy-yards was imposed, by the
Blue Book, upon pursers who were stati6ned there. It was made a part of their
official duty. As this was not repelled by the Red Book, no commission can be
allowed to a purser for performing this service.
The question, whether or not these acts were parts of the official duty of pnrsors, was
one of law, to be decided by the court, and not of fact, to be left to the jury.
Losses aUeged to have been sustained by a purser, in consequence of an order by the
commodore forbidding certain sales of slops, cannot be set off in a suit by the
United States upon the purser's bond.
The statute of Mlarch 3, 1797, which allows set-offs, has for its object the settlement
between the parties of their mutual accounts or debts. But wrongs or torts done,
and any unliquidated damages claimed, have never beenpermitted as a set-off.
It appears, also, that the government is not responsible for a wrong committed by one
officer upon another. The party injured has other modes of redress than setting
off the damages as a defence, when sued upon his bond by the United States.

THis case was brought iup by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsyl-

