JANUARY TERM, 1850.
'illiamson

565

et al. v. Irish Presbyterian Congregation.

acquired over them, in cases where no such power exists directly, under the Constitution or laws of Congress. For, if
the right exists to mquire into the kind and character of the
jurisdiction, without regard to that established by the laws and
decisions of the States, and to determine for itself whether the
jurisdiction is generql or special, and if the latter, to go behind
the judgment to see whether the special authority has been
strictly pursued, there is no limit to this revising power, except
the discretion and judgment of the court.
The principle will be as applicable to every State judgment
coming before us collaterally, as to the one in question. It
denies, virtually, to the States the power, in the organization of
her courts, to prescribe and settle their jurisdiction, either by
the acts of her Legislature, or the adjudication of her judicial
tribunals.
I cannot consent to the'introduction into this court of any
such principle, and am, therefore, obliged. to refuse a concurrence in the judgment given.

CHARLES A. WILLIAMSON AND CATHASINE H. WILLIAMSON, HIS
WIFE, PLAINTIFFS, v. THn IRISH PRESTERIAN' CONGREGATION

oF Tm CITY OF NEw YoRx.
The prnciples established in the precedmg case of Williamson and Wife v. Berry
applied to this case.
The circumstance, that the defendants paid to the grantees of George De Grasse a
valuable consideration for the premises m dispute, does not give them a valid title
against the plaintiffs.

THIS case was similar to the preceding one, in which the
same facts and principles were involved. The only difference
between them was, that the following point was certified in
this case, which was not in the preceding, viz. 8. Whether the defendants, who derive title bona fide, and
for a valuable consideration, by purchase through the grantees
of George De Grasse, as set forth in the case, have a valid title
as against the plaintiffs.
It was argued in conjunction with the preceding case, as has
been mentioned in the report of that case.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case the points certified to this court are identical
with those certified in the case of *illiamson and Wife v.
VOL. viII.

48

•566

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Ball.

Joseph' Berry, except the eighth. We direct that our rulings
in that case shall be sent to the Circuit Court, as our answers to
the points certified in this case. And further rule to the eighth
point certified in this case, that the defendants, having paid to
the grantees of George De Grasse a valuable consideration for
the premises in dispute, do not thereby acquire a valid title
against the plaintiffs.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice CATRON and Mr.
Justice NELSON dissented. See the report of the preceding
case.

CHARLES A. WILLIAMSON AND CATHARINE H. WILLIAMSON, HIS
WIFE, RUPERT J. COCHRAN AND ISABELLA M., Is WIFE, AND
BAYARD CLARKE, PLAINTIFFS, v. GEORGE BALL.
The principles established in the case of Williamson and Wife v. Berry applied to
this case also.
Under the acts of the Legislature of New York for the relief of Thomas B. Clarke,
the Chancellor had no authority to order that the trustee might make a conveyance
of any part of the premises devised for a precedent debt due by the trustee to his
grantee.
The deed executed by Clarke to Cbrystie in this case was not made in the due execution of the power and authority to sell and convey, though approved by the
master in conformity with the Chancellor's order, it not having been within the
Chancellor's jurisdiction to order that the trustee might make a conveyance o the
premises to a creditor in payment of the debt.
Although the defendant in this case may have paid to such a grantee a valuable
consideration, yet he cannot be said to haye acquired any title against the plaintiffs ; inasmuch as Clarkh had no lawful authority to convey to his grantee, that
grantejd had no right to convey to another.

THIS case was similar to the two preceding ones in all the
leading facts. It will be perceived, however, that all the children of Thomas B. Clarke now united as plaintiffs.
Upon the trial in the court below, the will of Mary Clarke,
the acts of the Legislature of the State of New York, the orders of the Chancellor of that State, and other facts, were shown,
as in the case of Charles A. Williamson and Wife v. Joseph
Berry.
It further appeared in evidence, that on the 8th of December,
1818, Mr. Clarke conveyed the lot in question, with other lots,
to Albert Chrystie, reciting that 11the said Thomas B. .Clarke
is justly indebted to the said Albert Chrystie in the sum of
$ 525, and is willing to convey in satisfaction of such debt
the premises hereinafter mentioned and described"; and de-

