134

SUPREME COURT.
Veazie v. Wri]liams et al.

and collateral mode here attempted, and upon evidence entirely
dehors and. unconnected with the record, to impeach or inquire
into the verdict and judgment rendered in the District Court of
Texas; that such a proceeding is utterly subversive of the
act of Congress limiting the right to appeals and writs of error,
and equally subversive of the fundamental rule of pleading and
of evidence, which establishes undeniable verity- in the solemn
proceedings of courts acting within the sphere of their jurisdic-,:
tion, and establishes every fact and every conclusion embraced
within the scope of those proceedings.
Order.
On consideration of the motion made by Messrs. Hughes
an.. Howard, on a 'prior day of the present term of this court,
to wit, on Friday, the 25th day of January last past, to dismiss
this writ of error for the want of jurisdiction, and of the arguments of counsel thereupon had, as well in support of as against
the same, it is now here ordered by this court, that the said
motion be, and the same is hereby, overruled.

SAIUEL VEAZIE, COmPLAINANT AND APPELLANT, V. NATHANIEL L.
WILLIAMS AND STEPHEN WILLIAIS, DEFENDANTS.

Where false steps are taken to enhance the price of property sold at auction, a court
of equity will relieve the purchaser from the consequences and injury caused by
these unfair means.
Therefore, where the owners had instructed the auctioneer to take $14,500 for the
property, and the real bids stopped at $20,000, and the auctioneer, even without
the consent or knowledge of the owner, continued to make fictitious bids until he
ran it'up to $40,000, this was a fraud upon the purchaser,
These sham bids could not have been made by the auctioneer upon his own account. Even if they bad been so, it is very questionable whether they would have
been valid.
Being'the gbneral agent of the owners, the latter are responsible for his acts if they
receive the benefit of them. By-bidding or puffing by the owners, or caused by
or ratified by them, is a fraud, and avoids the sale.
The sale being made on the 1st of January, 1836, but the fraud not discovered until
1840, and the bill being filed in 1841, there is no sufficient objection to relief owing
to lapse of time.
A release given by the purchaser to the auctioneer, for the purpose of making him a
competent witness, did not operate as a bar to a recovery against the vendors.
le would have been a competent witness without it.
There was no necessity for making the auctioneer a defendant in the suit.
The various modes of relief examined.

THIS was an appeal from the, Circuit Court of the 'United
States for the District of Maine, itting as a court of equity.

-The complainant, Veazie, resided at Bangor, in the State of

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

135

Veazie v. Williams et al.

Maine, and the defendants in Massachusetts, viz. Nathaniel L.
Williams at Boston, and Stephen Williams at Roxbury.
The facts of the case were these.
On the 1st of January, 1836, Nathaniel L. Williams and
Stephen Williams were the owners of two mill privileges, situated on Old Town Falls, in the town of ,Orono and State of
Maine. On that day, they offered the property for sale, at public auction, in the town of Bangor. The whole controversy
in the case having arisen respecting the manner in which the
sale was effected, it is necessary to state the circumstances as'
they were disclosed by some of the witnesses. The owners
employed Mr. Stephen H. Williams to ,proceed to Bangor and
attend to the sale, who hired an auctioneer by the name of
Head to effect it. The most material parts of the transaction are thus stated by Head, who was examined as a witness
on the part of the complainant.
"I was employed, in the winter of 1836, by a son of one of
the Messrs. Williams, to sell certain real estate in Orono, as an
auctioneer., The estate sold was mill privileges, situated in
Old Town, near Old Town Falls. It was put up at a minimum
price of $ 14,500, but it is my impression that the minimum
price was not fixed or named at the sale; but it commenced at
a much lower sum, which I have now forgotten, and run on up
to about eighteen thousand dollars; it might have been more
or less. I then received from Samuel J. Foster bids, who, was
the only person that bid, to my recollection, after the sum last
named. Foster bid a hundred dollars, and I then advanced
upon him; he then bid again, another hundred dollars, or some
other sum; I again advanced upon him, and so on, till the bid
got up to forty thousand dollars,"when it was struck off to
Samuel J. Foster. I don't recollect the terms of sale. A certain per cent. was to be paid down, but what it was I don't
recollect."
To the third interrogatory. -" I don't recollect that said sale
was conditional, except as I have stated. I don't recollect the
sum first offered, but it is my impression that it was something
like five thousand dollars. I don't recollect what the bids were
from that sum. My impressions are, that Samuel J. Foster, Ira
Wadleigh, John B. Morgan, and, I think, Janes Purrington,
were the bidders. There might have been others. The highest sum bid by any person other than the purchaser was somewhere in the vicinity of eighteen thousand dollars, to the best
of my recollection."
To the fourth interrogatory: "I have already answered, as
near as I can recollect, as to the highest sum offered as a bid,

136

SUPREME COURT.
.Veazie v. Williams et al.

except that at which it was struck off. After other bidders
stopped, he, Foster, bid a-hundred dollars, or so. I then advanced upon him, and he then again bid, ahd so on up to forty
thousand dollars."
To the fifth and a half interrogatory, viz., "What was the
highest sum offered as a bid at said sale, which you received as
a bid, except the bids offered by said Foster-? " - "It was
somewhere about eighteen thousand dollars, as I have already
answered. The actual bidders were about to that sum, as
near as I can recollect. It is my impression that I advanced
from that sum, or thereabouts. I cannot say for a certainty
from what sum I so advanced. But I think it could not have
exceeded twenty thousand dollars at which the actual bidders
stopped, and my impression is, that they ceased to bid beyond
eighteen thousand dollars."
To the sixth interrogatory. "I never communicated said
facts to said Veazie, to my knowledge. I cannot recollect
when I first communicated them to any one who would have
been likely to have communicated them to Veazie. About six
months ago, J. P. Rogers, Esq., came to me, and said that he
had knowledge of certain facts that I knew. I did not know
what lie meant. He then referred to the sale of this property.
I did not tell him any thing about it at that time. He called
on me again; I refused, as I did not know but I might implicate myself. Afterwards, he called again, and I then told him,
if Veazie would give me a writing holding me harmless, I
would state the facts. He said he would give me such a writing, as attorney for Veazie, which would be good. He did so,
and I then went forward and gave my deposition in a case between the parties, as to the facts of the case."
To the ninth cross-interrogatory. "Said defendants, nor any
agent of theirs, did not request me to employ any by-bidder at
the sale, nor to use any other thah fair and lawful means to enhance the price of the said property."
Samuel J. Foster, who was the person employed by Yeazie,
the complainant, to bid for him thus testified :To the second interrogatory. " I did attend said auction
sale in the winter of 1836. It was held on the 1st day of January, 1836, at the Penobscot Exchange, in Bangor. Certain
mill privileges and appurtenances, situate near or on the Old
Town Falls, was the property sold."
To the third interrogatory. " The highest sum bid for said
property was forty thousand dollars. I bid it, and was acting
and bidding for Samuel Veazie."
To the fourth interrogatory. " Previous to the sale, I was

JANUARY TERM, 1850.
Weazie v. Williams et al.

instructed by.General Veazie to bid to the amount of twenty
thousand dollars. At the time of the sale, after the bidding
had gone. up to twenty thousand dollars, Mr. Veazie came to
me, under considerable excitement, and told me to advance and
bid it off. I have no distinct recollection what my first bid
was, but my impression is, that I commenced with about five
thousand dollars. It advanced pretty rapidly, till it amounted
to fifteen or sixteen thousand dollars. I think, between that
point and twenty thousand, the bidding was not very prompt,
but it went on finally from twenty thousand, till it was struck
off to me at forty thousand dollars. I think I did not communicate my relation to General Veazie ,to any one, until the
property was knocked off. I then notified MAr. Bright, the
agent of the defendants, a Mr. Williams, the son of one of the
defendants, and Mr. Head, the auctioneer, that I bid for General Veazie, and the parties made arrangements to meet, the afternoon of the same day, at the office of William Abbot, Esq.,
in Bangor, to settle and close the business."
'To the fifth interrogatory. "John Bright, who acted as
agent, and a Mr. Williams, son of one of the defendants, were
present, apparently acting for them. I have no recollection of
their making any remark at the time of sale, nor that they did
any thing, at that time, about the sale."
To the fifth and one half interrogatory. "My impression
is, that I saw or heard no bidding after it got up to sixteen or
eighteen thousand dollars. The biddings, audibly, or by signs,
then ceased to be known to me. I observed Mr. Wadleigh,
and believe he was present from the beginning to the close of
said sale. My impressions are very strong that I noticed Mr.
Wadleigh's biddings till it reached to sixteen or eighteen thousand dollars. After that, I am positive that there were no
signs, or open bids, that would enable me to discover who, or
that any one, was bidding against me. I endeavoured to discover if Wadleigh was doing so, and could find no sign or nodding from him, or from any one else."
Ira Wadleigh, also a witness on the part of the complainant,
thus testified :To the second interrogatory. "I know the property, and
that it was sold to Samuel J. Foster at forty thousand dollars.
About a month before the sale I was in Boston, and called on
Nathaniel L. Williams to see if he would sell me the property.
ie said they thought of putting it up at auction, and would let
me know in a few days, as soon as he could see his brother
Stephen. I advised him to sell, so that mills could be built
that winter. On coming out of Boston, I met Stephen Wil12*

138

SUPREME COURT.
Veazie v. Williams et al.

liams's son, Stephen U. Williams, who was coming down to
see to selling the property ; and after he reached Bangor, I saw
him here, and talked with him about the property, and asked
him if he would sell it at private sale. He told me he would
sell it for fifteen thousand dollars or thereabouts; - I think he
told me so. Afterwards it was advertised to be sold at the Exchange in Bangor. Stephen H. Williams appeared to be acting
for the defendants."
To the third interrogatory. C, The property was sold at auction ; I was present at the sale, and bid I cannot say how many
times, nor what sums I bid; but somewhere from fifteen to
I don't remember bidding over
twenty thousand dollars.
twenty thousand dollars, although I might have done so.
Nicholas G. Norcross bid; I think Myrick Emerson bid, and
Samuel J.Foster, and some others; but I do not recollect who.
I cannot tell how much they bid, but from where it started up
along, but how far I cannot say."
To the fourth interrogatory. "When they first commenced,
the bids were audible, aid properly made ; but after they got
up to twenty thousand dollars and over, it was by signs."
To the fifth interrogatory. "I saw General Veazie at the
auction; he was about the room there; and was walking back
and forth in the long entry part of the time. I did not see any
thing very particular in his manner. I did not mind much
about it."
To the sixth interrogatory. "I talked with Head before the
sale, and told him I wanted to buy it. He asked me how high
I would go. I told him to seventeen thousand dollars, if I
could not get it for less. I agreed with Norcross to take it at
that sum; and told Head that I would hold my pencil between
my thumb and forefinger, and turn it for a bid. I soon went
up to twenty thousand and upwards, and stopped. I found
the bidding was going oh without -niy podding, turning my
pencil, or making any sign, and stepped up to Head, and askea
him if he was bidding for me. He made no answer; and I
said, 'For God's sake, don't bid any more for me,' and went
and sat down and bid no more. After the sale I had a conversation with young Williams, and, I think, told him how
the bidding went on; but he must have seen it, as he was
sitting behind, and close to Mr. Head. He said he was surprised at the sale; that the property sold for much more than
they expected."
"There were four priviTo the seventh interrogatary.
leges; and they were not then actually worth more than two
thousand dollars a privilege. I don't believe it would sell to-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

139

Veazie v. Williams et al.

day for four thousand* dollars at auction, -the
whole property, that is, the four privileges."
Four other witnesses, viz. Myrick Emerson, Levi Young,
Richard Moore, and Isaac Smith, who were present at the sale,
were examined on behalf of the complainants, whose evidence
corroborated that of the preceding witnesses, as far as mere
spectators could have any knowledge of the transaction.
Ten witnesses were examined on the part of the defendants. Stephen H. Williams, the authorized agent of the owners of the property, thus testified:-"My name is Stephen H. Williams. I am thirty-four years
old. I am a merchant, and reside in ,Roxbury; I know the
said parties. Mr. Feazie resides in Bangor, and is the president of a bank; I don't know his occupation.. Mr. Williams
resides in Boston, and is retired from business; he is my uncle.
"To the second interrogatory he says: -In the winter of
1835 - 36, I was employed by the defendants to go to Bangor, and act as their agent in selling at auction certain mill
privileges, at Orono or Old Town: I went to Bangor; the sale
took place, January 1, 1836; the property was sold by Henry
A. Head, as auctioneer, and was knocked off to a man named
Foster, but Mr. Veazie was the purchaser. The price was
forty thousand dollars.
"To the third interrogatory he says : - On arriving at Bangor, being a stranger, I made inquiries of Mr. John Bright as
to who was the most respectable auctioneer in the place, and
he referred me to Mr. Henry A. Head, as the person employed
in disposing of the government lands, and in his opinion the most
desirable auctioneer. I accordingly applied to him to dispose
of the property, and he consented' to do so. On the day of
the auction, previous to commencing the sale, he asked me
what amount was to be paid to him for his services; being
unacquainted with the amount of commissions usually paid
to an auctioneer, I told him that he should be paid what was
customary. Nothing further was said respecting his fees previous to the sale.
"To the fourth interrogatory he says : - I have already
answered this interrogatory in my reply to the third interrogatory.
" To the fifth interrogatory he says : - I did not authorize,
or request, or in any way suggest to the said auctioneer, to bid
himself on the said property, or employ any other person to
do so, or to do or permit any thing unfair, unusual, or in any
way improper, to be done at the said sale to enhance the price
of the said property; and I did not know, nor had I any reason to believe, that he intended to do so.

140

SUPREME COURT.
Veazie v. Williams et al.

" To the sixth interrogatory he says :- I did not, nor did
any one authorized by me, make any bid on the said property
at the said sale.
"To the seventh interrogatory he says: -- I knew the said
Wadleigh, at the time of the sale, so as to speak to him; he
was present at the sale.
"To the eighth interrogatory he says: -I
did see the said
Wadleigh, while the sale was going on, go up to the auctioneer
and speak to him; the bid had then gone to thirty-nine thousand dollars. He did not go up and speak to him more than
once; I am distinct in my recollection on this point.
" To the ninth interrogatory he says: -I
did ask the auctioneer immediately after the sale what Mr. Wadleigh had said
to him, when he came up to him during the sale, and he replied to me, that, on going into the room immediately previous
to the sale, Mr. WVadleigh gave him unqualified authority to
purchase the property for him, or, in other words, had told
him that, when the property was knocked off, it was to be his
(Wadleigh's). He (the auctioneer) also told me that, when
Wadleigh came up to him on that occasion, he said to him,
For God's sake stop, and bid no more for me.'
"To the tenth interrogatory he says: - The property was
knocked off to a Mr. Foster, but after the sale, much to my
surprise, I found that Mr. Veazie was the purchaser. He had
told me previous to the sale, that he would not give more
than twelve thousand dollars for it. He immediately desired
a bond for the delivery of the deed. The bond was accordingly drawn, with a penalty of fifty thousand dollars, for the
delivery of the deed, at Bangor, within ten days or a fortnight. After receiving the bond, and while he was folding it
up, he said to me that he thought it proper to state, now that
he was secure himself, that an express had been fitted out for
the purpose of purchasing this property before the news of the
sale, by auction, could reach the owner; and it is my impression that he said that Mr. Wadleigh was engaged in it, but
of this I am not positive. I left to go to Boston and obtain
a deed and return to Bangor. I remained in Boston a day or
two to complete the deed, which having been done, I set out
to return to Bangor. Between Boston and Portsmouth I found,
by some conversation with the passengers, that Mr. Veazie had
passed us on the road going to Boston. I accordingly made
arrangements to return to Boston and meet him, and thus save
my journey to Bangor. On' returning to Boston I found he
had left there an hour or two previous to my arrival. A day
or two after, I started for Bangor again, and overtook Mr.

JANUAkRY

TERM, 1850.

.141

Veazie v. Williams et al.

Veazie at Portland. We then travelled together to Bangor.
During the journey, he told me that he had made up his mind
to give forty thousand dollars for the property; that it had
been canvassed in his family, and arrangements been made to
that effect, and that he had secured this Mr. Foster to hold
him harmless to that amount, and that the journey he had
made to Boston was to obtain knowledge that I had a deed
for him, as he was suspicious, on the return of those who went
on the express, that they had succeeded in their design.. And,
by way of showing his anxiety, he told me that he had left
Bangor for Boston on the evening of a large party given by
his wife. He said that the value of this property to him was
caused by a quarrel and lawsuit between him and Wadleigh,
which rendered it of vast importance to either of them to obtain the property. He also said, that he had traced the person
who conducted the express as far as the Tremont House, and
there all trace of him was lost.
"To the eleventh interrogatory he says: - Previous to and
on the morning of the sale, Mr. Veazie manifested much indifference as to the purchase of the property, observing that
he would give twelve thousand dollars for it, and no more.
Of course I was surprised when I found he had given forty
thousand dollars for it.
"To the fourth cross-interrogatory- he says: - Immediately
after the sale, I was informed by the auctioneer, that, when
Wadleigh stopped him at thirty-nine thousand dollars, he (the
auctioneer) then bid the remaining one thousand dollars on his
own responsibility, alternately with Foster. On my return to
Boston, I related this (with every thing else that had transpired)
to the defendants, my employers."
John Bright, who was the agent for the owners of the property prior to the arrival of Stephen H. Williams, thus testified to the fourth interrogatory: ,1I did not, nor did any one to my knowledge or belief,
request or authorize, or in any way suggest to the auctioneer,
or any other person, to bid at said sale, in behalf of the defendants, or to make any fictitious or pretended bid at the said
sale, or to do any thing, or permit any thing to be done, unfairly, to enhance the price of the said property."
To the fifth interrogatory: "I did attend the sale. I did not bid on the" property, nor
did I then know, nor had I cause to believe, that said auctioneer was himself bidding on the said property, nor that any one
was bidding on said property for the defendants, or was using
any unfair means to run up said -property, or to enhance the
price thereof."

142

SUPREME

COURT.

Veazie v. Williams et aL

The witnesses all concurred, that there had been a great
depreciation in the market value of mills and mill privileges
since January 1, 1836.
The terms of sale were ten per cent. of the purchase-money
payable immediately, and twenty. per cent. more upon the delivery of the deed. These two sums together made $ 12,000,
all of which was paid by Veazie. The balance, being $ 28,000,
was divided into two notes of $14,000 each, payable in one
and two years. The first was also paid, and the interest upon
the second up to the 1st of January, 1840. The amount still
due was, therefore, one note of $ 14,000, with interest from the
1st of January, 1840. 'Upon this note suit was brought against
Veazie, prior to the filing of the bill in this case.
These were the circumstances attending the sale, as stated
by the principal witnesses.
On the 21st of July, 1841, the following release was executed by Veazie to Head, viz. :"Know all men by these presents, that I, Samuel Veazie,
of Bangor, in the county of Penobscot, and State of Maine,
Esquire, in consideration of one dollar to me paid by Henry
H. Head and Nehemiah 0. Pillsbury, both of said Bangor,
auctioneers, and late copartners in the auction business, under
the firm and style of Head and Pillsbury, the receipt whereof
I do hereby acknowledge, do hereby release and discharge said
Head and Pillsbury, jointly and severally, from all damages by
me sustained, or supposed to be sustained, and from all action,
or causes of action, to me accrued or accruing in consequence
of any misfeasance, nonfeasance, or malfeasance, or any illegal management by them done, performed, or suffered, at the
sale at auction of Nathaniel L. Williams and Stephen Williams's real estate, situated in Old Town, in said county of Penobscot, on or near Old Town Falls, so called, which was sold
at auction on or near January 1st, 1836, by the said Head and
Pillsbury, as auctioneers; hereby, also, releasing the said Head
and Pillsbury from any claim for damage, by or in consequence of any of their proceedings relating to said sale of said
property.
"In witness whereof, I have hereto set my hand and seal,
this 21st day of July, A. D. 1841.
"SAMUEL

VEAZIE.

[L. s.]"

This release was introduced into the cause by agreement of
counsel, filed at a subsequent stage of the proceedings; by
which agreement it was admitted that neither the respondents
nor their counsel had any knowledge of the existence of the

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

143

Veazie v. Williams et al.

release until after the publication of the evidence in the suit,
and also further admitted, that the release and circumstances
under which it was given might be referred to and made use
of in the cause with the same effect as if the same had been
put in issue by a cross-bill and admitted by the answer. It
will be seen by referring to the third volume of Story's Reports, page 66, that Mr. Justice Story did not consider this
agreement as a proper mode of introducing the release into the
cause, when it came up before him for argument. According
to his suggestion, the proper steps to do so were immediately
taken by filing a supplemental bill. These remarks are here
made for the purpose of connecting the report of the case in
3 Story's Reports, 54, with this statement.
On the 23d of July, 1841, Veazie filed his bill of complaint
on the equity side of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Maine.
The bill stated, that, on January 1, 1836, defendants owned
two mill privileges in Maine, and on that day offered them for
sale, at auction, at Bangor, in Maine, employing one Head as
auctioneer, and, by themselves or agent, instructed Head to put
them up, beginning with $ 14,500. minimum, and prescribed
certain conditions of sale as to payment ; that the complainant,
relying on the good faith of defendants and of Head, attended
the sale, and bid, by one Foster as agent, and, the minimum
having been offered, Head continued to announce a still higher
sum, and Foster, supposing it fair and honest, made a still
higher bid, and so on, until said property was struck off to
Foster, for the plaintiff, at $ 40,000. And thereupon the com'plainant,'supposing the sale had been conducted and the bidding made in good faith, complied with the conditions of sale,
paid $ 4,000 in cash, $ 8,000 more on delivery of the deed,
gave his note for $ 14,000 in one year, with interest, which he
has'"since paid, and his other note for $ 14,000 in two years,
Aith interest, on which he has paid the interest annually to
January 1, 1840. And defendants executed a deed to com1l lirfnt'hnd complainant a mortgage of -same to defendants to
96&161
id notes, and another of $ 1,900, received as part of
the $ 8,000 Jaforesaid.
The bill*ftrther alleges, that there 'was no real bid at said
auction for more than $ 16,000 or $ 18,000; but that the auctioneer, by sham'bids, run up said Foster from about $16,000
to $ 40,000 Fostdr's 'being the only real bona fide bids over
abdut $ 1G,000; bEr means of which pretended bidding and
management of the auctioneer, defendants have received from
the complainant a large sum of money which they ought not

SUPREME COURT.
Veazie v. Williams et al.

to have received; and so the complainant has been deceived
and defrauded.
The bill further alleges, that complainant discovered the
fraud since January 1, 1840, and notified defendants of it, and
hoped they would have refunded the money; but they not
only refused to rescind, but have commenced a suit on the unpaid note, which is now pending. in this court, .and attached
complainant's property.
The defendants are requested to answer specifically, - 1.
Whether they authorized the sale, and employed Head as auctioneer. 2. Whether the land was put up at the minimum
stated, and if Head was directed not to sell for less, and authorized to bid for defendants to that extent; 3. What sum
they agreed to pay Head, prior to the sale; what they did pay;
was he to be paid anyium if there Wag no sale; how he vas to
be paid. 4. What amount, principal and interest, complainant
has paid defendants. 5. Whether the note on which defendants have brought a suit is one of those given for said purchase.
6. Whether the whole purchase-money was not paid and secured by complainant, and the deed given directly to him ; and
whether it was not stated and understood, at that time, that
Foster acted simply as complainant's agent at said sale.
The prayer of said bill is, that said suit may be enjoined, the
note delivered up, the sale rescinded, and the money paid back
with interest.
The answer admitted the ownership, and that defendants employed one Bright to advertise the property for sale at auction
on January 1, 1836. That a few days before the sale they sent
Stephen H. Williams, a son of one of the defendants, to Bangor, to employ an auctioneer and make all necessary arrange-,
ments. The defendants denied having instructed, intimated, or
suggested to Williams, Bright, or any other person, that there
should be any by-bidding or other unfairness; or that, before
said sale, said Williams, Bright, the auctioneer, or any other
person, received from defendants any instruction or puggestion
that said property should be run up by fictitious bids, or that
any thing unfair should be done.
They admit, that they did fix $ 14,500 as a minimum, but
aver that they gave no instructions to keep the same secret;
that they-believe the fact was well known at.the sale; that
they have been informed, and believe, that no.bid wyas made by
any agent of theirs in consequence of the fixinag of the said
minimum price, bids far bxceeding, that amoupit being inimediately made by those desiring and intending t,o-purchase.
The conditions of sale, as to payment, are admitted to have
I
been as stated in the bill.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.
Veazie

,.

145

'William's et al.

The answer admitted that Stephen H. Williams employed
Head as auctioneer, who was' said to be duly licensed, skilful,
experienced, and believed to be honest. The defendants aver
their belief that said Williams did not authorize or suggest any
by-bidding or other unfairness by Head, but employed him as
a public officer, duly empowered by the laws of Maine. They
further aver, that they have been informed, and believe, that
said Williams did not authorize Head to bid up to the minimum,
or to make any bid on their account..
The defendants aver that they were not present at the sale;
but deny that there was no real bid above $16,000 or $18,000,
or any such sum; or that the auctioneer run up Foster, by
sham bids, from $16,000, or any such sum, to $40,000 ; or that
that there was no real bid above $16,000, or any such sum.
Defendants admit that complainant informed them, after
the sale, that Foster was his agent, and allege that complainant
exhibited great anxiety to have the conveyance made; and they
have been informed, and believe, that there was great competition at the sale, both on account of the intrinsic value and the
local position of the property, and that complainant authorized
Foster to bid as high as $40,000.
Defendants completed the sale, gave a deed, received payment of all but the last note, and interest on that to January 1,
1840; but complainant did not notify defendants that he considered the sale invalid until January 14, 1841, and they then
brought a suit., as alleged.
That more than five years and six months have elapsed since
said sale, and defendants have lost the benefit of evidence as to
occurrences at said sale, and there has been a great depreciation
in such property, owing to an increase in the number of mills,
the scarcity of timber, and financial difficulties in that region,
by which mill-sites have much depreciated in value; and defendants believe that changes have been made in the property by building or altering.
The defendants do not know when, in particular, the complainant pretends to have discovered the alleged fraud; but
whatever was done at the sale might have been known, on
inquiry, at any time ; and they pray for proof of diligence.
They believe that complainant, since the changes in value,
would gladly annul the bargain, and compel defendants to repay
the price, and pay for his expenditures; but they submit that
this ought not to be, after such a lapse of time and the changes
in condition and value, especially as they deny the fraud alleged, and any concealment, on their part, of any thing done
at the sale.
13
VOL. Vill.

145

SUPREME COURT.
Veazie v. Williams et al.

That S.- H. Williams- agreed to- pay--Head for--his services
what was customary3, and' did pdy'hi t $'200, after the sale,
which defendants thihk was reasonable; did there was no
agreement that Head was to 'receive hothing if no sale was
effected.
It has been before mentioned, that when this cause came up
for argument before Mr. Justice Story, as reported in 3 Story's
Reports, 54, he suggested that a supplemental bill should be
filed, for the purpose of properly introducing the release to Head
into the cause.
The supplemental bill alleged that Head paid no consideration for the release, and made no satisfaction ; that it was not
intended as a discharge of any claim against the defendants;
and if such was its effect, it was a fraud and a mistake ; that it
was given because Head refused to disclose the facts, on the
ground that complainant might sue him, and complainant
wished to obtain proof with a view to institute proceedings in
equity against defendants; that the whole agreement with regard to it was between Head and complainant's counsel, and it
was signed by complainant without inquiry, and without any
negotiation between Head and complainant, and no indemnity
against Head's liability to defendants was asked or intended.
The supplemental bill then prayed that said release may be reformed and restrained to the true intention of. the parties.
The answer to this supplemental bill stated that the existence
of the release was not discovered by defendants until after the
testimony had been taken in the original case ; that defendants
now insist on it as a bar; do not know whether any consideration was paid for it ; and as to the intentions of the parties,
or any understanding as to its legal effect, no fraud was practised
to procure it to their knowledge, or any language used that was
not intended by complainant, by whom it was signed by the
advice of counsel and under no mistake of fact; and it is not
competent for him to control or alter it by extrinsic evidence.
They have no knowledge of the intentions of the parties to it,
or what inducements or agreements led to it. They have been
informed by Head, that Veazie's counsel promised him an indemnity, and this was accordingly given. They deny that
Head expected that, after said release, he would be liable to
any action by defendants, or any construction given to the
release which would prevent his being held harmless against
them.
To this answer there was a general replication.
On the 3d of August, 1844, a bill of revivor was filed
against Louisa Wiljiams, the widow and executrix of Stephen

JANUARY TERM,

1850.

147

Veazie v. Williams et al.

Williams, deceased, and at May term, 1845, the bill was revived
by consent of counsel, and the cause set down for hearing.
At the same term it came on to be heard upon the bill, answer, pleadings, and evidence, when the judges of tile court,
being divided in opinion on the mdrits of the cause, ordered
and decreed that the bill be dismissed, without costs to either
party.
This decision is reported in 3 Story's Reports, 612.
An appeal from it by the complainant below brought the case
up to this court.
It was very elaborately argued by Mr. Pessenden and Mr.
Webster, for the complainant and appellant, Veazie, and by Mr.
Davies and Mr. Gilpin, for the defendants.
The points on the part of the appellant were thus stated by
A1ir. Fessenden. They were stated somewhat differently by
3ir. Webster, as will be mentioned afterwards.
As stated by Mr. Fessenden they were, I. That the defendants were owners and sellers of the property described, at said auction sale, by and through Head, as
auctioneer; and that the complainant was purchaser of the same
through the agency of Foster.
II. That Head, the auctioneer, did, by pretended and illegal
bidding at the sale, greatly enhance the price to the complainant; that he actually received no bid from any bona fide bidder, or person proposing to purchase, other than the complainant's agent, above the sum of twenty thousand dollars, or
thereabouts; bat, by illegal and fraudulent practices, induced
the complainant's agent to bid, and the complainant to pay, a
much larger sum than they would have done had said sale been
fairly conducted.
III. That Head, the auctioneer, was the general agent of defendants for all the -purposes of the sale, and in all the transactions connected therewith; and they are responsible for all his
acts, and his knowledge, connected with the sale, and cannot
avoid that responsibility on the ground that he was a public
officer.
IV. That an auctioneer cannot legally be a bidder on his
own account; and therefore, whether the bidding by I-ead
was really-for himself, as intending to purchase, or merely pretended, for the purpose of enhancing the price, it was equally a
fraud upon the complainant, and vitiated the sale.
V. That defendants became actual parties to the fraud by
having received information of one illegal act of the auctioneer
at the sale, before the contract was closed, which they did not

SUPREME COURT.
Veazie v. Williams et al.

communicate to the complainant, but concealed, and by which
they were put upon inquiry.
VI. That equity will not allow the defendants to retain the
proceeds of a fraud committed by their agent, whether they had
knowledge of it or not.
VII. That Head was not a necessary party to the bill.
VIII. That the release to Head and Pilsbury is no bar,
1. Because equity will not extend its operation beyond its
legal effect and the intention of the parties, which were a release of damages.
2. Because it was a release to the agent, and not to the principal.
3. Because the defendants would have no right of action
against Head and Pilsbury, should the sale b6 rescinded.
4. The extent and design of a release, like a receipt, are explainable by extrinsic.evidence.
IX. That the claim of the complainant to rescind the contract is not barred by lapse of time.
Because six years had not elapsed between the sale and the
filing of the bill, or between the discovery of the fraud and the
filing of the bill, and there had been no loss of evidence or
change in the actual condition of the property, such as would
justify the court in refusing relief; and because the circumstances attending the sale were not such as to excite the complainant's suspicions, or put him upon inquiry.
X. Even if there was no fraud, the sale should be rescinded
for mutual mistake of a material fact.
As stated by Mr. Webster, they were, 1. That an auctioneer is the agent of the owner until the
sale is made, and also afterwards, until he gives a memorandum
in writing. This writing is given in order to avoid the statute
of frauds, and in making it, the auctioneer becomes the'agent
of both parties.
2. That fraud by an auctioneer, committed whilst he is the
ageit of the vendor, vitiates a sale as thoroughly as if it had
been committed by the vendor himself.
3. That it is not necessary to show that the prinq.ipal was
cognizant
the fraud.
14. Thatofthe
auctioneer is the alter ego of the party who employs him. What he knows, the principal knows; or, as the
rule is substantially stated in 6 Clark & Fin. 448, 449, if an
agent made wilfully false *representations, and then made -a cone
tract. equity will relieve just as much as if the scienter were
traced to the principal.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

149

Veazie v. Williams et aL

5. An agent to sell cannot buy. Therefore an auctioneer
cannot bid for himself. This rule may not be very applicable
in this case, because the auctioneer does not say that. he intended to purchase the property for himself.
6. The owner of real estate put up at auction, may protect
himself in one of two ways.
1st. He'may fix a minimum or starting-point. If no bid is
made for this amount, then it is no sale. This mode appears
to have been pursued here. The minimum was fixed at
$ 14,500, and this fact was made known to the purchasers at
the sale. This fact is highly important.
2d. The owner may- employ one person to bid up to the
minimum, or he may bid himself. But in this mode, as in the
preceding, where fhe bidding has reached the minimum, then
all bk-bidding or puffing is fraudulent, and vitiates the sale.
The highest real bidder, after reaching that point, is entitled to
the property.
The points stated and, argued by the counsel for the defendants were the following: 1. That neither on the allegations or form of the complainant's bill, nor on the evidence, is he entitled in the Circuit Court
of the -United States, sitting in equity, to the relief he prays for.
2. That neither on the allegations of the bill, nor on the evidence, is there ground to charge the defendants with fraud.
3. That the evidence does not establish any fraud on the
part of Head, the auctioneer, but if it does, it will not entitle
the complainant to the relief prayed for in this suit.
4. That the release of Head is a conclusive bar to the complainant's prayer for relief.
5. That, both on the facts of the case and the-well-settled
principles of equity jurisprudence, the decree of the Circuit
Court, dismissing the bill, was correct, and ought to be affirmed.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the. opinion of the court.
This was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court in the
Maine District, dismissing a bill which was brought originally
by Veazie, the appellant.
As to the contents of the bill and the evidence in its support,
it may suffice to say here, that the bill asked the rescission of
a sale at auction, made about the 1st of January, 1836, of certain mills, owned by the respondents, and a return of the money
paid, and the notes still held by them for a. part of the purchasemoney. It asked this, on the alleged ground of imposition in
13*

150

SUPREME COURT.
Veazie v. Williams et al.

the sale by means of puffing or by-bidding, so as to advance
the price about $ 20,000 above what it otherwise would have
been. 'In their answer, the respondents denied any such bidding
by their procurement, or that it avoided the sale if happening;
and further contended, that they had been discharged from any
liability which might have existed by a release to the auctioneer, one of the persons implicated in the by-bidding. The answer insisted, also, that the auctioneer should have been made
a party to the bill, and that any claim to relief by the plaintiff
is barred by the lapse of time since the sale.
The leading point arising in this case involves so difficult
questions both of fact and law, that they have, in some degree,
divided this court, as well as the court below, and great care
and discrimination will be necessary in order to reach conclusions that can be satisfactory.
The relief here is not sought, as has been objected, on account of inadequacy of price, - though that may at times be
so gross as to show fraud, and might here very well raise some
presumption of it. Warner v. Daniels, 1 Woodb. & Min. 111;
Coles v. Trecothick, 9 Yes. 234; 2 Yes. sen. 155. But it is
sought for a fraud practised in augmenting the price; or, in other words, for taking false steps to enhance it; and it is the
consequence and injury caused by these unfair means th t the
plaintiff would avoid.
How far, then, in point of fact, was the price increased above
the real bids? and by what means? A minimum price of
$ 14,500 is clearly proved to have been fixed by the owners.
The weight of the testimony is, that the real bids went only
$ 3,500 to $ 5,500 higher. There is no pretence that Wadleigh - the rival or competitor of the plaintiff- bid or authorized others to bid for him above eighteen or nineteen thousand
dollars, though a statement of the auctioneer to one pprson has
been relied on to the contrary. Wadleigh denies it, -nobody
testifies to it, -and nobody is produced who bid or employed
others to bid higher, unless the auctioneer himself did it.
The true value, also, as fixed by the owners at $14,500, tends
to confirm the idea that no real, fair bid would be likely to go
above $ 20,000, - or over $ 5,000 or $ 6,000 beyond the owners' own estimate.
It is, then, a leading feature in this case, that should not be
overlooked, as it gives a stamp and character to the whole
equity as between these parties in favor of the plaintiff, that the
respondents fixed the minimum bid for the sale of their property at $ 14,500, and authorized the auctioneer to dispose of it
for that amount, when in truth, by some means or other, ant

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

151

Veazie v. Williams et al.

without any real rival bids above $ 20,000, they obtained for it
$40,000. Wliether this extraordinary result was effected by any
improper conduct on their part, or that of any agent for whom
they may in law be responsible, is the next prominent inquiry.
In the outset, the probability certainly is, that property like
this could not be sold at auction for from $ 25,000 to $ 26,000
more than the owner asked for it, unless under some imposition
or great mistake. And the further presumption seems at first
to be reasonable, that the respondents, whose property was thus
sold, and by an auctioneer employed by themselves, and who
have benefited by the large excess in the price given, by taking the money and securities, were either instrumental in causing the excess, or, having availed themselves of it and all its
advantages, should be answerable civiliter for any- wrong and
error connected with it.
It is conceded, in point of fact, that some other bids than.
Veazie's went nearly to $ 40,000, and as no .person is shown to
have made them but the auctioneer, it follows that they mu.t
have been real bids by him for himself, or fictitious ones by
him, with a view to increase the price to be obtained by the
respondents, and to increase his own commissions on a sum so
much larger than had been anticipated when the sale began.
Looking to tlhe supposition that the bids were real and for
himself, that idea is not supported, but rather' disproved, by
the testimony. The auctioneer does not appear to be a man
of wealth, able to buy so valuable property for investment, nor
was such a purchase in the line of his business or profession,
nor does he seem to have had the means or disposition for speculation, and especially on so large a scale; and he must have
well known that the true value of this property was not considered by the owners above $ 14,500, nor its value to Wadleigh
as enhanced by its locality in his dispute with Veazie, as above

$ 18,0 00.

_...e

weight of the testimony, then, is decidedly against the
correctness of the supposition, that the bids above $ 20,000,
except, the plaintiff's, were by the auctioneer for himself and
on his own account.
Had it been otherwise, it would be very questionable whether,
in point of law or equity, an auctioneer can be allowed to bid
off for himself the very property he is selling. It has been laid
down that he cannot. Hughes's case, 6 Yes. 617; Oliver et al.
v. Court et al., 8 Price, 126; 9 Ves. 234; 8 Ves. 337; Long
on Sales, 228; Babington on Auctions, 164. The principles
against it are stronger, if possible, and certainly were enforced
earlier in courts of equity than of law. An opposite course

152

SUPREME COURT.
Veazie v. Williams et aL

would give to an auctioneer many undue advantages. It would
tend, also, to weaken his fidelity in the execution of his duties for
the owner. He would be allowed to act in double and inconsistent capacities, as agent for the seller and as buyer also; and
the precedents are numerous holding such sales voidable, if not
void, and at all events unlawful, as opposed to the soundest
public policy. See Michoud v. Girod, 4 Howard, 554; 15
Pick. 30; 1 Mason, 344; 2 Johns. Ch. 51; Tufts v. Tufts,
Mass. Dist. 1848, and cases there cited; Long on Sales, 228;
9 Paige, 663; 1 Stor. Eq. Jur, ยง 315; 3 Stor. R. 625. That
an auctioneer is a general agent for the owner usually, though
questioned in the argument, cannot be doubtful. See Howard
v. Braithwaite, 1 Yes. & Beam. 209 ; Stor. on Agency, % 27,
28; 4 Burr. 1921; 1 H. Bl. 85. He is so till the sale is cornpleted. Long on Sales, 231; Seton v. Slade, 7 Yes. 276;
Babington on Auctions, 90; 20 Wendell, 43. And though
he may be agent of the buyer after the sale for some purposes,
such as to take the case out of the statute of frauds, (Williams
v. Millington, 1 H. BI. 84; 3 D. & E. 148; Cowp. 395;
Long on Sales, 228, 60, 63; Emerson v. Heelis, 2 Taunt. 38;
1 Esp. 101,) yet this does not affect the other principle, that
till the sale, and before it, he acts for the vendor alone. Nor is
an auctioneer a public officer in Maine, and a license required
to"him. 2 Laws of Maine, p. 390, ch. 134.
But whether a
public officer or not is a circumstance that does not generally
appear to have change4 the liability of the principal for his
acts, if taking the benefit of them.
-Treating his bids, then, as made by the auctioneer, not for
himself, and the proof having failed to show that they were
for a stranger, the only remaining hypothesis is, that they were
made by him while agent of the owners, with a view to
their benefit particularly,-though with hopes of some incidental
gain to himself in increased commissions. How does this view
accord 'with the evidence of "the transaction, taken as a Whole?
It is the only plausible aspect of it existing. The auctioneer
found Wadleigh willing, on account of his quarrel with Yeazie
and his interests near the property, to go about $ 5,000 higher
than-the owners' estimate, and then found Yeazie, for like reasons, willing to.go still higher rather than let Wadleigh purchase
the premises, for whom he supposed the auctioneer was bidding. Il the eagerness of competition and with ample capital,
Yeazie seems in this way to have been induced to go even as high
as $ 40,000, under the exciting but delusive and false impression,
that he thus was obtaining the property against the efforts of
Wadleigh or others, real bidders and real competitors. That

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

153

Veazie v. Williams. et al.

impression the auctioneer sought to create, and did create, by
deceptive means.
Residing on the spot and acquainted with the character of
the parties, he doubtless suspected that Veazie, rather than let
the property go to Wadleigh, might bid very high, -and per-.
haps, by rumor, even to $ 40,000,- and proceeded, after the
real bids were over at about $ 20,000, to make by-bids, either
on his own judgment, to benefit his employers and increase his
own commissions, or on the suggestions or signs of Stephen
H. Williams, who was present as agent of the respondents,''
and is proved to have sat behind and near the auctioneer at
the sale.
Veazie being thus situated so as to be more easily duped by
either of them, and his condition and fears and anxieties being
probably known to Head, if not to Stephen H. Williams, the
auctioneer, by the means before described, procured for his employers nearly treble what they expected or what had been
agreed on as the minimum price. The next inquiry is, if such a
transaction renders the sale in point of law void, either for fraud
or mistake. In some cduntries, under the civil law, a buyer of
immovables is of right entitled to a rescission of the sale if it
turn out, though without-fiaud, that the price was more than
fifty per cent. above the true value. Pothier on Contracts of
Sale, part 5, ch. 2, sec. 2; and see- Domat, tit. 6, sec. 3.
Here the price was at least a hundred per cent. above, - yet
there must in this country be fraud also, or -a mistake.
Though no evidence is seen of fraud practised by the respondents in person, nor by their express directions, yet a fraud
was evidently perpetrated by the auctioneer, as agent for the
respondents, or by him in connection with Stephen H. Williams, and the respondents have taken and still retain the benefit of it. This conclusion is indisputable, whatever obscurity
or concealment may have been flung over the case by the auctioneer.
Does this state of things, then, in point of law, require the
sale to be relieved against, .on sound principles of equity and
public morals?
By-bidding or puffing by the owner, or caused by the owner, or ratified by him, has often been held to be a fraud, and
avoids the sale. Cowp. 395; 6 B. Monroe, 630; 11 S. & R.
86; 4 Har. & McHen. 282; Babington on Auctions,-45; 3
Bingh. 368; 2 Carr. & Payne, 208; 6 D. & E. 642; Rex v.
Marsh, 3 Younge & Jerv. 331; 11 Moor, 283. He may fix a
minimum price, or give notice of by-bids, and thus escape censure. Ross on Sales, 311; Howard v. Castle, 6 D. & F. 642.

154

SUPREME COURT.
Veazie v. Williams et al.

But this shows that, without such notice, it is bad to resort to
them. Crowder v. Austin, 3 Bingh. 368; 3 Younge & Jerv.
931.
1The act itself is fraudulent," says Lord Tenterden.
Wheeler v. Collier, 1 Moody & Malk. 126.
The by-bidding deceives, and involves a falsehood, and -is,
therefore, bad. It violates, too, a leading condition of the contract
of sales at auction, which is that the article shall be knocked
off to the highest real bidder, without puffing. 2 Kent's Com.
538, 539. It does not answer to apologize and say that by-bidding is common. For, observed Lord Mansfield, "Gaming,
stockjobbing, and swindling are frequent. But the law forbids
them all." . Cowp. 397. In Bexwell v. Christie, Cowp. 396,"
the pole-star on this whole subject, it is said, - " The basis of
all dealings ought to be good faith. So more especially in
these transactions, where the public are brought together in a
confidence that the articles set up for sale will be disposed of
to the highest real bidder."
Even in a court of law, Lord Kenyon has, with true regard to
what is honorable and just, said, -" All laws stand on the best
and broadest basis, which go to enforce moral and social duties."
Pasly v. Freeman, 3 D. & E. 64. See also Bruce v.
Ruler, 2 Man. & Ryl. 3. And in Howard v. Castle, 6 D. & E.
642, he held that Lord Mansfield's doctrine, that all sham
bidding at auctions' is a fraud, was a doctrine founded "on
the noblest principles of morality and justice."
Nor does it lessen the injury or the fraud if the by-bidding
be by the auctioneer himself. He, being agent of the owner,
is -equally with him forbidden by sound principle to conduct
clandestinely and -falsely on this subject. Cowp. 397.
All
shouldl be fair,'- above-board.
'Indeed, in point of principle, any fraud by auctioneers is
more dangerous than by owners themselves. The sales through
the former extend to many millions annually, and are distributed over the whole country, and the acts accompanying them
are more confided in as honest and true than acts or statements
made by owners themselves in their own behalf, and to advance
their own interests. Great care is therefore proper to preserve
'them unsullied, and to discourage and repress the smallest deviations in them from rectitude.
Here 'the auctioneer virtually said to his hearers, when he
made a fictitious bid, - "I have been offered so much more for
thid property." But he said it falsely, and said it with a view
to induce the hearers to offer still more. He averred it as a
fact, and not an opinion; and as a fact peculiarly within his
knowledge. Now if, under such an untrue and fraudulent as-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.
Veazie v. Williams et al.

sertion, persons were persuaded to give more, - relying, as they
had a right to, on the truth of what was thus more within the
personal knowledge of the auctioneer, and was publicly and expressly alleged by him, and being of course more willing to
give higher for what others had offered more, who probably
were acquainted with such property and had means to pay for"
it,- they were imposed on and injured by the falsehood. It
is said, -" A naked, wilful lie, or the assertion of a falsehood
knowingly, is certainly evidence of fraud." 1 Const. R. (S.
Car.) 8.
The following authorities support the views here
laid down. 3 Younge & Jerv. 331; Moody & Malk. 123; 2
Carr. & Payne, 208; Bexwell v. Christie, Cowp. 395; Howard
v. Castle, 6 D. & E. 642; 1 Hall, (N. Y.) 146; 1 Dev. (N.
Car.) 35; 6 Clark & Fin. 444, 329.
Some cases, and some reasoning found in them, attempt to
sanction a contrary doctrine, if the by-bids were made merely
to prevent a sacrifice of the property, - a "1defensive precaution," - but not otherwise. Connolly v. Parsons, 3 Yes. 625
note; Smith v. Clarke, 12 Yes. 477; Steele v. Ellmaker, 11
Serg. & Rawle, 86; Woodward v. Miller, 1 Collier, 279; 5
Maddock, 34.
These exceptions still concede that the by-bidding, when an
artifice to mislead the judgment and inflame the zeal of others, -I "to screwi up and enhance the price," in the language of
Sir William Grant, - is fraudulent and makes the'sale void. 12
Yes.
483;cases
2 Kent's Com. 537.
Some
hold, too, that the by-bidding will not vitiate,
if real bids beside those of the vendee occurred after. 3 Yes.
620. But neither of these excuses or apologies existed here.
These by-bids were made after some thousands of dollars had
been offered over the value of the mills, as estimated by the
owners themselves, and were palpably made "to screw up," or
enhance the price. Any other excuses, which have ever availed, either are anomalies, or rest on a false analogy. Thus, at.
one time in England duties on auctions were remitted, if the
property was bought in by the owner. 3 Yes. jr. 17, 621; 1
Fonbl. Eq. 226. This, however, was founded on the theory
that no sale had taken place, and hence no duty should be paid,
rather than that a sale under such circumstances was valid. It,
therefore, strengthens rather than impairs the view taken of the
present case.
It is no answer to this reasoning to say, as has been done,
that Yeazie bid voluntarily, or expressed satisfaction with his
purchase, and was in haste to close it up. Because, . in all
this, he was laboring under a misapprehension that others

156

SUPREME COURT.
Veazie v. Williams et aL

had honestly valued the property near the same price, and
been in truth as anxious as himself to bid it off,- and because he believed 'that he had thus succeeded against a real
rival in securing the mills and some incidental advantages, when in reality there had been no such honest bids over
$20,000, and he had been contending against a man of straw
falsely set up by the auctioneer. In short, he had been imposed
on by the agent of the respondents; and that by virtual falsehood, and in a point material, and in a manner likely to mislead. He was not allowed to exercise his judgment, and bid
higher or not on the truth, -on facts, -but on falsehoods. 6
D. & E. 644. He was not the highest bidder at $ 40,000,
except through deception wrought on him fraudulently. Ibid.
Secrecy was practised, - privacy as to the real offers, - stratagem, - which, as already seen, is in the teeth of the great
principles of a valid public sale. Bexwell v. Christie, Cowp.
396; 2 Kent's Com. 539.
A technical objection to the quantity rather than weight of
the evidence has been urged, which it may be -well to dispose
of here. It is said that fraud is denied as to the defendants,
and is .not proved against them by two witnesses. It is conceded that the denials that the respondents were personally
guilty df fraud, or expressly directed falsehood and fraud, are
not overcome, nor are they in controversy. But it is the puffing or by-bidding of the* auctioneer, their agent, which is in
controversy as a fact. As. to that they can make no denial from.
any personal knowledge pro or con, - not having been present;
'and hence their answer furnishes no evidence in respect to it,
as an independent fact. But this fact being substantiated by
the agent, and the matter proved by others, as to no real bids
being made over $ 20,000, and by various Qther circumstances
in the case, the amount of evidence for it is ample. It is true,
they deny that they ordered it. It is to be remembered, however, that they are not held liable here merely by declarations
of their agent, when not ordered by them or perhaps known to
them at the time, - though it is a sound doctrine that the verbal
declarations of an agent at a sale often bind the principal. 1 Ves.
& Beames, 209; 6 Clark & Fin. 448, 449; Story on Agency,
ยง 107. And that the agent is bound to disclose all and to act
as the principal is when present, and selling. 1 Metcalf, 560;
Hough v. Richardson, 3 Stor. R. 698 ;- 3 Hill, 260 ; 1 Woodbury & Minot, 353. And that a principal so acting in person cannot be justified in asserting what is false, and by which
another is injured. Pasly v. Freeman, 3 D. & E. 51; Vernon v. Keys, 12 East, 632; 2 East, 92. And that what the

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

157

Veazie v. Williams et al.

vendor may not do in person, or may not employ others to do
in his absence, - that is, make by-bids to enhance the price, his agent, the auctioneer, cannot rightfully do.
But they are held liable on a ground beyond and apart from
all this, and as well settled in England as here, that if a principal ratify a sale by his agent, and take the benefit of it, and it
afterwards turn out that fraud or mistake existed in the sale,
the latter may be annulled, and the parties placed in statu quo;
or they may, where the case and the wrong are divisible, be at
times relieved to the extent of the injury.
The principal in such case is profitin'g by the acts of the
agent, and is hence answerable civiliter for the acts of the
agent, however innocent himself of any intent to defraud. 13
Wendell, 513 ; 1. Verm. 239 ; 1 Salk. 289 ; 7 Bingh. 543 ; Mason et al. v. Crosby et al., 1 Woodb. & Min. 342, and cases
there cited; Doggett v. Emerson, 1 ib. 1; Story on Agency,.
ยง 451; Doggett v. Emerson, 3 Stor. R. 700; Olmsted et al. v.
Hotailing, 1 Hill, 317; Taylor v. Green, 8 Carr. & Payne, 316.
Whether the principal knew all those acts or not, is not the test
in this case, as in 2 East, 92, notes, and 13 East, 634, note,
though it may be in sone others, as in 5 Bingh. 97; 6 Clark
Fin. 444.
But the test here is, Was the purchaser deceived, and has the
vendor adopted* the sale, made by deception, and received the
benefits of it? For, ifso, he takes the sale with all its burdens. Wilson v. Fuller, 3 Adolph. & Ell. (N. S.) 68.
The sale, thus made here, was adopted and carried into effect
by the respondents; and hence, on account of the fraud involved in it, they should either restore the consideration, and
take back the mills, or indemnify the purchaser to the extent
of his suffering.
Some miscellaneous objections to these results are yet to be
considered. It is said to be justly deemed an extraordinary
power in a court of chancery to rescind contracts at all, instead
of leaving parties to a suit at law for their damages. Sugden
on Vendors, 392; 11 Peters, 248. And that a fraud or mistake
must be very manifest to justify it. 10 Price, 117; 13 Price,
349; 7 Cranch, 368; 2 Johns. Ch. 603; 12 Ves. 477. And that
the burden of proof to show these grounds for a rescission rests
on the plaintiff, and not on the defendant. Grant this. Yet all
requirements appear fulfilled here. On satisfactory proof, also,
executed, as well as executory, contracts may in such cases be
set aside. One case is reported of its being done after twenty
years. 8 Price, 125. And a defendant is likely, in most cases,
VOL. Vi1.
14

SUPREME COURT.
Veazie v. -Williams et aL

to suffer no more by a rescission in chancery, than by damages
adequate to the loss or injury.
There is next the objection, that too long a time had elapsed
here before seeking redress. More force would attach to this
if Yeazie had discovered the imposition sooner. The sale happened January 1st, 1836; the discovery of the fraud was after
January 1st, 1840, and this bill was filed July 23d, 1841, after
demanding redress of the respondents in January, 1841.
Having effected his object in the purchase, - to obtain the
property rather than let his rival get it, who, he doubtless supposed, was bidding against him, - and being a man of ample
means, VTeazie submitted.'as feeling bound, to the excess of price.
Nor did he suspect any imposition till informed of it within a
few years; and then he seasonably applied for relief, and should
not be barred from obtainm'g it by any lapse of time while the
fraud or mistake as to the bids not being real remained undiscovered. Doggett v. Emerson, 3 Stor. R. 740; Daniels v.
Warner, 1 Woodb. & Min. 90; Doggett v. Emerson, Ibid. 1;
8 Clark & Fin. 651; 1 Russ. & Milne, 236.
"It is said that, after this lapse 9f time, the plaintiff is not in a
proper condition to restore the mills. 16 Maine, 42. He is less
likely to be, if they are ordered to be restored; but that is the
fault of the fraud, and the concealment of it, rather than his fault.
The defendant, too,"if the property has deteriorated in value, is
in no worse a condition than he would be Where an avoidance
of the sale takes place at law for fraud
If the plaintiff has sold the property, or disabled himself from
restoring it, when ordered by a decree, then the evil consequences will light on himself, and not the defendants.
That is
what is meant by inability to restore the property in 8 Cranch,
476. Nor is there any need he should aver substantively in his
bill that he can restore it, this being presumed as a usual, if not
necessary, consequence, when he applies to have the contract
rescinded, and every thing placed in statu quo.
The last exception to a recovery here by the -plaintiff is, that
the release to Head, the auctioneer, should be considered as discharging the respondents also. Neither the design of the parties to the release, nor the agreement or consideration to make
it, extended beyond the auctioneer. It was suicidal for the
plaintiff to pay for a release to get a witness in a case, which
release would destroy the case itself. (2 Iredell, 219.) Sitting
as we do in a court of equity, we cannot, without an open and
gross departure from equity, give to the release any effect beyond the design in making it, and the literal words of it, reaching

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

159

Veazie v. Williams et al.

only to the discharge of the releasee. It is a strict rule at law;
and not of equity, which goes further in any case. 7 Johns.
Ch. 207; 18 Wendell, 399; 22 Pick. 308. The operation
was meant to be like a covenant not to sue him; and such a
covenant is no bar to suing others when jointly liable. Ferson
v. Sanger, 1 Woodb. & Min. 138.
Again, in: the present instance, there was no joint liability at
law by the respondents and the auctioneer. Their accountability was separate, and resting on different grounds; his on
actual falsehood, - theirs on the adoption of the benefits of it,
and the accountability thus arising for it. The release of one,
therefore, is not like the release of a joint contractor or joint
trespasser. 1 Anstruther, 38.- And in equity it may well be
limited to the person released, and, the person paying the consideration for it. Hopkins, 251, 334.
Beside this, Head was in law a competent witness for Yeazie, without any release, his interest being against Veazie.
This conclusion as to the release is an answer, likewise, to the
objection, that Head ought to have been made a party to this
bill. His liability resting on a separate ground, and not joint,
he could not be united at law, nor is it always done in equity
under like circumstances. See Mason et al. v. Crosby, 1
Woodb. & Min. 342; Ferson v. Sanger, Ibid. 138; Jewett v.
Conrad, 3 Woodb. & Min. -;
Small v. Atwood, 6 Clark &
Fin. 352, 466.
All that remains is to decide upon the most equitable course
to carry these views into effect, consistent with sound principles.
One mode is .to set aside unconditionally the whole sale, for
the fraud practised in it, and have the mills reconveyed by
Veazie, and the money, notes, and mortgage returned by the
respondents. Another mode is to treat as unjust only so much
of the proceedings as was fraudulent; that is, the excess of
price over $ 20,000 obtained by by-bidding, and to cause that
excess only to be refunded.
To attain this last result in some way is preferable, considering the length of time which has elapsed here, and the probable
deterioration in value of the mills by use and the fall of prices
in the market since the inflation of 1836, and, though objected
to by the respondents, is likely more than the other to secure
them against loss.
To restore the excess of consideration, or to restore all and
have back the mills, has in other respects much the same effect.
The plaintiff in either way will obtain nothing which did not
*belong to him, nor the respondents lose any thing which was
theirs before the falsehood or mistake. It is, at the same time,

160

SUPREME COURT.
Veazie v. Williams et al.

gratifying to find, that, by either of these courses, no incidental
loss or inconvenience will fall on the respondents, except what
has been occasioned by the misbehaviour of their own agent,
and the fruits of which they accepted, and which they cannot
in foro conscientie retain against those injured by that misbehaviour.
But there is one equitable operation before named, in relieving only as to what is fraudulent, which makes it most deIt is objected, first, that it will be giving
sirable, if legal.
damages, like a court of law, to the extent of the wrong, rather
than rescinding the whole contract on account of fraud or an
evident mistake.
We are inclined to think, unless under peculiar circumstances, that damages cannot be given in a court of equity, but
the parties must be left to a court of 'law to recover them. 17
Yes. 203; 1 Russ. & Mylne, 88; 2 Keen, 12; 1 Cowen, 711;
5 Johns. 193. The exceptions of damages in part, under certain
circumstances may be seen in the following cases, and the authorities there quoted. 2 Story's Eq. Jur., ยงยง 711, 779, 788,
794; 4 Johns. Oh. 460; 14 Yes. 96; 9 Cranch, 456.
But the course we propose, to have the sale stand so far as
not fraudulent, and to make the defendants restore only what
was obtained by the puffing and fraud, is not giving damages
either eo nomine or in substance. It requires to be surrendered merely the" money and interest on it, and the notes and
mortgage unpaid, which were obtained by the deception of bybidding. This, among other things, is prayed for in the bill.
This course will only carry out the established rule on this
subject, laid down in elementary treatises,-that "the injured
party is placed in the same situation, and the other party is compelled to do the- same acts, as if all had been transacted with the
utmost good faith." 1 Story's Eq. Jur., ยง 420; 1 Maddock's
Ch. Pr. 209, 210: Fonbl. Eq., book 1, ch. 3 and 4, notes.
Every thing is thus relieved against, to the extent to which it
is wrong or fraudulent, but nothing beyond it. Jopling v.
Dooly, 1 Yerger, 289.
It is suggested, however, secondly, that this course does not
set aside the whole sale, or whole contract, which ought to be
done, if intermeddled with at all. It is true that, generally, a
part of a deed, or contract, or sale, canrlot be avoided without
avoiding the whole. -2 Ves. jr. 408; 1 Maddock's Ch. 262.
Though. at times there may be a division or break in them
where fraud begins and good faith ends, and where beyond
that line only it would seem just to annul them. (1 Yerger,
289.)

JANUARY TERM, 1850.
Veazie v. Williams et al.

But if the whole must be annulled or none, it can be here,
and yet equitable terms imposed on the plaintiff to let such part
of the transaction remain undisturbed as is consistent with
equity and good faith. This is justified, not only by the general principle that he must do equity who asks it, (4 Peters,
328,) but that it is one of the leading principles on this particular subject in a court of chancery, "if it should rescind the contract, to allow it only upon terms of due compensation, and
the allowance of countervailing equities." 2 Stor. Eq. Jur.,
ยง 694; Harding v. Handy, 11 Wheat. 126; Bromly v. Holland,
5 Yes. 618.
So it is said, that, 11when the judgment debtor comes into
court, asking protection, on the ground that he has satisfied the
judgment, the door is fully open for the court to modify or
grant his prayer upon such condition as justice demands." The
Mechanics' Bank of Alexandria v. Lynn, 1 Peters , 384.
This court ori its equity side, says Chief Justice Marshall, is"capable of imposing its own terms on the party to whom it
grants relief." Mar. Ins. Co. v. Hodgson, 7 Cranch, 336, 337.
And it will not grant relief even in fraud, unless the party
"wishing it will do complete justice." Payne v. Dudly, 1
Wash. (Va.) 196; Semb., 1 johns. Oh. 478; Scott v. Nesbit,
2 Cox, 183. Here, then, in the decree, we can set aside the
whole sale and contract; but, instead of doing it unconditionally, the plaintiff should.be required first to do equity, and to allow any countervailing equities on the part of the respondents,
-which are, to let the sale itself stand at what was fairly bid
for the property, and require only the residue of the consideration, being entirely fraudulent, to be restored. 1 Stor. Eq.
Jur., ยง 344, 599, and cases there cited ;- McDonald v. Neilson,
2 Cowen, 139, 192.
Thus, a borrower of money on usury will not be allowed.
relief in chancery, except on the payment of principal and legal
interest. Scott v. Nesbit, 2 Cox, 183 ; 2 Bro. . Oh. Cas. 649 ;
2 Stor. Eq. Jur., ยง 696 ; Stanly v. Gadsby, 10 Peters, 521;
Jordan v. Trumbo, 6 Gill & Johns. 106; 3 Ves. & Beames, 14;
Fanning v. Dunham, 5 Johns. Ch. 143. Like terms are imposed
on borrowers under void annuity bonds. (See same cases.)
So, by analogy, the cases of specific performance frequently exhibit the enforcement of a part only, when just. Pratt et al.
v. Law et al., 9 Cranch, 456; Hargrave v. Dyer, 10 Ves. 506;
Harnett v. Yielding, 2 Sch. & Lefr. 553; 1 Maddock's Oh.
431. So, in respect to injunctions, one may issue against a
judgment for land, and stay execution for a part, and allow it to
stand for the residue. Dunlap et al. v. Stetson, 4 Mason, C. C.

162

SUPREME COURT.
Veazie v. Williams et al.

364. See other illustrations and cases, Com. Dig.,, Chancery
Appendix, 6 and 18 ; Fildes v. Hooker, 2 Meriv. 427; 14 Ves.
91_; Wharton v.'May, 5 Yes. 27.
The form of a decree nearly adapted to this case may be
seen in Fanning v. Dunham, 5 Johns. Ch. 146.
The last real bid here being in some doubt as to its amount,
whether eighteen or twenty_ thousand dollars, -we think the
weight of evidence is in favor of the last sum, and the computations are therefore to be made on that basis. The judgment
below must therefore be reversed, and a mandate sent down directing the proper decree, in conformity to these views, to be
entered for the plaintiff.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice McLEAN, and Mr.
'Justice GRIER dissented from this opinion.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record 'fromthe Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Mlaine, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court, that the pretended sale of the
two mill privileges, at and for the sum 6f $ 40,000, as set forth
and described in the pleadings and proofs in this cause, was
fraudulent, and should be set aside ; but as equitable terms
imposed on the complainant, he is to let the sale stand for the
sum of $20,000, fairly bid by him; and that the balance of
the moneys paid by the complainant over and above the said.
$ 20,000 should be refunded to him by the defendants, with
legal interest thereon, and that the notes and securities given
for the payment of any part of such excess should be cancelled
and given up by the defendants to the complainant; that the
defendants should pay the costs in this court, upon this appeal,
and all the costs which have -accrued in this cause in the said
Circuit Court, or which may accrue therein, in carrying out the
decree of this court.
Whereupon, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the'said Circuit Court dismissing the complainant's bill be, and the same is hereby, reversed
and annulled. And this court, proceeding to render such decree as the said Circuit Court ought to have rendered herein,
doth now here 9r.der, adjudge, and decree, that the aforesaid
sale, as above .set fcrth, be, and the same is hereby, rescinded
and set iside; that the said complainant shall, as equitable terms,
retain the said property at and fot the said sum of $ 20,000,
part of the moneys paid by him to the said defendants, and that

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

163

Phalen v. Virginia.

the said defendants shall, on or before the third day of that
term of the said Circuit Court next ensuing the filing the
mandate of this court in said Circuit Court, refund and pay to
the complainant all such sums of money over and above the said
last-mentioned sum of $ 20,000, as they or either of them shall
have received from the said complainant on account of the purchase of said property, together with legal interest thereon from
the time or times at which they were so received by the said
defendants, and that the said defendants shall, on or before the
same day'of the same term of the said Circuit Court, cancel
and deliver up the notes and securities given for the payment
of any and every portion of the excess over and above the said
$20,000. And this court doth further order, adjudge, and decree, that the said defendants do pay the costs in this court
upon this appeal, and all the costs which have accrued in this
cause in the said Circuit Court, or which may accrue therein,
in carrying out the decree of this court. And this court doth
further order, adjudge, and decree, that this cause be, and the
same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with instructions to carry this decree into effect, and with power to
make all such orders and decrees asmay be necessary for that
purpose.

JAMEs PHALEN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE COMMONWEALTH OF
'VIRGINIA.

In 1829, the Legislature of 'irginia passed an act appointing five commissioners to
raise by way of lottery or lotteries the sum of $30,000 for the benefit of the Fanquier and Alexandria Turnpike Road Company. Two of the commissioners declined to act, and the remaining three took no steps to execute the power for a
long time.
On the 25th of February, 1834, the Legislature passed an act for the suppression of
lotteries, which prohibited all lotteries and sale of lottery-tickets after the 1st of
January, 1837, saving, however, contracts already made which were by their termhis
to extend beyond the 1st of January, 1837, or contracts hereafter to be made under any existing law, which were to extend beyond that day. These were permitted to go on until the 1st of January, 1840.
On the 11th of March, 1834, the Legislature passed an act appointing two commissioners in the place of the two who had declined to act.
On the 19th of December, 1839, these commissioners entered into a contract with
certain persons, authorizing these persons to draw as many lotteries as they might
think proper, without limitation as to time, uponi the payment of a certain sum
per annum to the commissioners.-,
The right to draw lotteries under the act of 1829 is not a contract the obligations
of which were impaired by the act of 1834.
It may be doubted whether it constitutes a contract at all. But if it was a contract,
it was not unlimited as to time, and the act of 1834, allowing the grant to continue

