SUPREME COURT.

256

Peale, v. Phipps et al.

doubtedly suffered the judgment pro forma to be entered under
the impression that there was in fact a controversy between the
plaintiff and defendant, and that they were proceeding to obtain a decision upon a disputed question of law, in which they
had advprse interests. A judgment in form, thus procured, in.
the eye of the law is no judgment of the court. It is a nullity,
and no writ of error will lie upon it. This writ is, therefore,
dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of the
record'from the Circuit Court of. the United Stateg for the Dis"trict of Maine, and was argued by counsel, and it'appearing to,
the court here, from the affidavit and other evidence filed in
the case by Mr. Moor, in behalf of third persons notparties to'
this suit, that there is no real dispute between the plaintiff and
defendant in this suit, but, on the contrary, that their interest
is one and tihe same, and is adverse to the interests of the persons
aforesaid, it is the opinion' of this court, that the judgment of
the Circuit Court entered pro forma in this case is a nullity and
void, and that no writ of error' will lie upon it. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the writ of error be, and the same is hereby, dismissed,'
each party paying his own costs, and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, remanded to the said court, to be dealt with
as law and justice may require.

ELIJAH PEALE, TRUSTEE AND ASSIGNEE OF THE PRESIDENT, DIREC-'
TORS, AND

COIPANY

PLAINTIFF IN

OF THE AGRICULTURAL BANK OF MISSISSIPPI,
MARTHA PHIPPS AND MARY RICE, WHO is-

ERROR, V.

AUTHOFIZED AND ASSISTED IN THE SUIT BY HER HUSBAND, CHARLES

RICE.
An error in a citation, calling Mary Rice the wife of Charles Bowers, whereas she
was the wife of Charles Rice, is not fatal in a case coming from Louisiana. The
practice there is for the husband to assent when the wife brings a suit, so that his

name is merely a matter of form.
Nor is it a fatal error when the citation was issued at the instance of E. Peale as

plaintiff in error, instead of Elijah Peale, Trustee of the Agricultural Bank of
Mississippi.
The acceptance of the service of the citation by the attorney for the parties shows
that the error led to no misapprehension.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from Louisiana,
and a motion was made by Mr. Henderson to dismiss it, upon
the grounds stated in the opinion of the court.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

257

Peale v. Phipps et al.

Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion is made to dismiss this, writ of error on three

grounds :-

1. Because there is no citation to the defendants in error,
...
as the law requires.
2. Because the citation is addressed to Martha . Phipps
and Mary Rice, "wife of, George Bowers, and liy him assisted," who are not the persons or parties defendants in the
I
record.
3. Because said citation is stated to have been issued at
the instance of E. Peale, as plaintiff in error, - imsteid .of
Elijah Peale, Trustee of the Agricultural Bank of Mississippi, &c.
The suit was brought by Martha Phipps and 'Mary Rice;
and in the petition they are called Martha Phipps -and Mary
Bowers, wife of. Charles Rice, "who is authorized and assisted
in this suit by her said husbind, Charles." The defendant is
named "Elijah Peale, in his capacity of Trustee and Assignee
of the President, Directors, and Company of the Agricultural
Bank of Mississippi." The decree is in favor of Martha Phipps
and Mary Rice.
The citation .appears to have been issued by E. Peale, and
was directed to Martha Phipps and Mary Rice, "wife of George
Bowers,.and by him assisted." And the service of the citation
was accepted by S. S. Prentiss, plaintiff's attorney, at New Orleans, the 22d of October, 1849.
The names of the defendants in error are correctly stated in
the citation, except that Mary Rice is represented as the wife
of George Bowers, instead of the wife of Charles Rice. Under the procedure in Louisiana, the hilsband'is named in the
petition as assenting to the suit brought in the naffie of his
wife. He is not a party to the suit, nor is he responsible for
costs. The use of the name of the husband is merely formal,
and the misnomer alleged could not have misled the defenidants
in error. Nor could they have been misled by the omission in
the notice bf the capacity of trustee, idf which the defendant-'
below was sued, and in which he necessarily prosecutes the
writ of error. The acceptance of the service of the notice by
the counsel of the defendants in error, without exception,
shows that there could have been no misalJprehension in regard
to it. The motion to dismiss the case is overruled.
Order.
On consideration of the motion to dismiss this writ of error,
submitted to the court by General Henderson, on a prior day
- 22*

-

258

SUPREME

COURT.

Wilson v. Barnum.

of the present term of this court, to wit, on Friday, the 28th
ultimo, it is now here ordered by this court, that said motion
be, and the same is hereby, overruled.

JACOB P. WIlsON, -COMPLAINANT, v. DANIEL BARNUm.
The following question, sent up to this court upon a certificate of division in opinion
between the judges of the Circuit Court,- viz. "Whether, according to the true
construetion of the Woodworth patent, as amended, the machines made or used
by the defendant at the iime of filing the bill, or either of them simply, do or do
not infringe the said amended letters patent ?"--is a question of fact, over which
this court has no jurisdiction.
The jurisdiction given to it by statute in certified cases only extends to points of
law.

THIS case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania upon a certificate of division in opinion between the judges thereof.
It is not necessary to do more than insert the statement of
facts and point of division, as they are found in the record.
Statement of Factssand Point of Division of Judges.
UNITED STATES

o"

AMERICA,

E'astern Districtof Pennsylvania.

At a Circuit Court'of the United States, begun and held at
the city of Philadelphia, for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, on the 13th day of November, in the year of our Lord 1849.
Present, the Honorable Robert C. Grier, and the Honorable
John K. Kane.
JACOB P.

WILSON V. DANIEL BARNUm

Statement of Facts.
This was a suit ' in equity. The bill was filed April 5tb,
1849, by the plaintiff, as assignee of letters patent issued to
William Woodworth. After due notice, a motion was made
for a spiecial injunction, which was fully heard before his Honor,
John K. Kane, at a regular Circuit Gourt, on the 21st, 22d,
23d, q4th, and 25th days of 11ay,,A. D. 1849, his Honor, Judge
Crier, being absent. The defendant resisted the motion, and
filed affidavits on his part, when, after a full hearing of the
parties and arguments of counsel, on the 1st day of June,
1849, a special injunction was granted, a copy of which is annexed to this statement. Afterwards, on the 4th day of June,
1849, the defendant filed an answer, setting up the fact of his
having a patent for his machine, and denying all similarity be-

