SUPREME COURT.
West v. Smith et aL

Court, for further proceddings to be had therein in conformity
to the opinion of this .court.

JOHN WEST, AFPELLAINT,

V. JOSEPH SIITH AND ELLEN, HIS WIFE.

Where a bill was filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the County of
Alexandria, by a legatee, against the executor and residuary de.visee, praying for

the sale of the real estate in order to pay legacies, the personal estate being exhausted, it was not necessary to make a special devisee of land in Virginia, who
.resided in Virginia, a party defendant.
The Orphans' Court had power to allow a commission to the executor for paying
over a specific legacy, and a right to extend this commission to ten per cent.
Under the laws of Virginia, the executor had a right to refrain from pleading the
statute of limitations when sued, and to pay a judgment thus obtained against him.
The judgment, at all events, must stand good until reversed.
Where the executor paid legacies to persons who had occupied property which, it
was alleged, belonged to the deceased, and the occupiers claimed to hold it in
consequence of an uninterrupted possession of twenty years, the justice of their
claim could not be tried in a collateral manner, by objecting to this item of the
executor's account, on the ground that he should have set up the claim for rent in
set-off to the legacy.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia- and County of Alexandriaistting as a court of equity.
It was a bill filed in the Circuit Court by Ellen Smith, then
Ellen Mandeville, one of the legatees of Joseph Mandeville,

deceased, whose will was before this court for construction at
January term, 1844. The case is reported in 2 Howard, 560.
It willbe ,seen by reference to that case, that John West became a party to the proceedings, upon the ground of being

the residuary legatee, and, as the court then held, residuary
devisee also.

Ellen Mandeville, who intermarried with Joseph Smith
pending the suit, was a legatee under that will for

One of the clauses of the will was this.

$ 3,000.

"If my personal prop-

erty should not cover the entire amount of legacies I have or

may give, my executors will dispose of so much of my real
estate as will fully pay them."
Mandeville, the testator, died in July, 1837.
In May, 1839, Ellen Mandeville filed her bill in the Circuit
Court, (to which suit her husband, Smith, afterwards became a

party,) charging the making and publication of the will, the bequest to herself and others of certain legacies, which in default
of personal assets were chargeable upon the real estate, the

death of the testator, and the de4ciency of personal assets;

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

403

West v. Smith et al.

and praying a sale of lands for the satisfaction of her legacy. To
this bill, all the other pecuniary legatees, the residuary devisee,
West, and the executor of Mandeville, were made defendants.
It is not necessary to trace the progress of the suit through
its successive stages. It was at last referred to a master in.
chancery, who reported sundry matters of account, to some of
which exceptions were taken by the defendant, West. The
court, however, overruled these exceptions, and proceeded to
decree a sale of so much of the real estate as might be necessary to pay the legacies. From this decree West appealed, and
the case now came before this court upon the exceptions to the
master's report. Only four of these exceptions were insisted
on in the argument, viz. the second, third, seventh, and eighth.
They were as* follows. The first exception is inserted for
the purpose of explaining the second.
1. For that said commissioner has improperly allowed William C. Gardner, deceased, a credit in his account as executor
of Joseph Mandeville, deceased, the sum of eight hundred and
forty-two dollars and ninety cents, as having been paid to
Sarah A. Hill, "a specific legacy of slaves, furniture, &c., as
appraised," which said property was properly subject, at the
time of its delivery to the said legatee, Sarah A. Hill, to the
payment of the debt of Joseph Mandeville, deceased.
2. For that the said commissioner has improperly allowed
the said William 0. Gardner, deceased, as a credit in his said
executorial account on the estate of Joseph Mandeville, deceased, the sum of eighty-four dollars and twenty-nine cents,
as a commission on the said $ 842.90, mentioned in the first
foregoing exception, which said sum was not so due to said
Gardner.
3. For that the said commissioner has improperly allowed
the said Gardner, as a credit in his said executorial account, the
sum of three hundred and sixteen dollars and thirty-seven
cents, and a further credit in said account of nine hundred and
twenty dollars and twenty-six cents ($ 920.26)) as having been
paid by said Gardner on account of a judgment in favor of
Samuel Bartle, against said Gardner, as executor of Joseph
Mandeville, deceased, the items or most of them forming the
account of said Bartle against said Mandeville's estate, on which
said judgment is predicated, being unsustained by legal proof,
and barred by the statute of limitations.
7. For that the said commissioner has improperly reported
the sum of fifteen hundred dollars, with the several sums of
two hundred and twenty-five dollars and four hundred and fifty
dollars interest thereon, after allowing a credit of one hundred

404

SUPREME COURT.
West v. Smith et al.

and fifty dollars, as a legacy due to Mary Mandeville, under
the will of Joseph Mandeville, deceased; the said legacy being
subject to a further credit of two hundred and twenty-five dollars, for the use and occupation of a portion of the real estate
of Joseph Mandeville, deceased.
8. For that the said commissioner has improperly reported
'the sum of fifteen hundred dollars, with seven hundred and
thirty-five dollars, the interest due thereon, as a legacy to Julia
Mandeville, under the will of Joseph Mandeville, deceased,
when the same should have been credited with the sum of two
hundred and twenty-five dollars for the, use and occupation of
a portion of the real estate of Joseph Mandeville, deceased.
The cause was argued by Mr. Jones, for the appellant, and
Mr. Neale and Mr. Davis, for the appellees.
Mr. Jones submitted a preliminary objection of a defect of
parties, because of the nonjoinder as a defendant of James
Mandeville, a nephew of the testator, and a specific devisee of
ten thousand acres of land upon the head-waters of Guyandotte
River, in Virginia.
He then proceeded to argue, in support of the second exception, that no commission was allowable on the specific legacy,
in addition to the general commissions incident to the administration of the assets.
Of the third, that the executor suffered judgment at the suit
of Bartle, in consequence of his improper and illegal concessions,
and of evident negligence, amounting to a devastavit.
Of the seventh and eighth, we maintain, -1st. That the evidence clearly entitled the exceptant to the set-offs claimed in
these exceptions. 2d. That the pretence set upi of long possession under a parol gift, was wholly unsupported by evidence,indeed disproved,- and was moreover barred by estoppel, the
parties claiming both under and against the will.
And further maintained, that the court erred in proceeding to
the final decree, whilst the claims of the two creditors and the
two legatees named in these exceptions remained sub judice.
Lastly, that the court had no jurisdiction to decree satisfaction of the, creditors out of the real estate.
Mr. Neale, for defendants in error.
2d Exception. If this exception is made as a legal and valid
objection, it is thought that such is not the law; on the contrary, the allowance is fully authorized by law. No doubt the
commissioner was guided by the allowance made the executor
of Mandeville by the Orphans' Court of Alexandria County, in

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

405

West v. Smith et al.

which the accounts were settled; and that court had full power
and authority, under the testamentary system of Maryland, to
make the allowance, it being a matter within the admitted
discretion of the court; and being in its discretion, not even an
appeal, much less this exception, is sustainable. 2 Laws of
Maryland, 482; Dorsey's Testamentary Law of Maryland, 17;
1 Peters, 565; 5 ib. 224.
The exception, if sustained, might, by a future proceeding on
the part of the appellant against the executor's legal representative, tend to defeat, at least in part, the commission allowed
Mandeville's executor by the Orphans' Court aforesaid, and
which could only have been done, in the first instance, by an
appeal, alleging and proving fraud in its procurement. It
would, therefore, seem to be an attempt to do that indirectly,
which could not have been done directly and lawfully.
3d Exception. This exception is clearly untenable for the
following reasei s; that is to say, because the judgments of
every court of competent jurisdiction, if fairly obtained, are conclusive upon the parties, until reversed by writ of error or supersedeas; nor can a court of equity look into them, unless fraud,
mistake, accident, or surprise in their procurement be alleged
and proved; in such a case, it is admitted that chancery has
jurisdiction. But no such allegatiohs are to be found in the
record of this cause, and for want thereof, this honorable court,
sitting as ai appellate chancery court, will not, it is imagined,
disturb the allowance. The appellant was made a party defendant on the 8th of June, 1842, and although Commissioner
Eaches made his report on the 31st of May, 1839, the appellant
never filed exceptions thereto until the 3d of October, 1846,
long after the death of Mandeville's executor; and having so
long failed to do so, it is submitted whether the court will now
entertain the same. 2 Robinson's Practice, 214; 383 ; 3 Howard, 691; and the same remarks apply to Commissioner Green's
report.
(Mr. Neale then went into an argument that the statute- of
limitations did not apply.)
7th and 8th Exceptions. The claim set up by the appellant for use and occupation is strictly legal, and as a general
principle can only be enforced in a court of law. Such claim
must be founded on the privity of contract, either express
or implied, and neither the one nor the other can arise without the previous relation of landlord and tenant. 1 Howard,
153.
No such-relation is pretended in this case; none such ever
existed; the parties, on the contrary, are now contending before

SUPREME

COURT.

West v. Smith et al.

the court below, in a suit at law, about their legal rights to the
lot of land in question, and to the rent of which lot the appellant in this chancery suit claims to be entitled. It would
therefore appear to be a fit subject for an action at law, and not
a bill in equity, for the right of property in this case is a
question which involves matters of fact as well as of law, and
should be adjudicated in a court of law, where the appellant has
adequate remedy; and having such remedy, a court of equity
is not the proper forum. 1 Laws U. S., old edition, p. 59, sec.
16.
The evidence in the record is, that the Misses Mandeville entered on the premises in dispute, under a gift from
their uncle, the late Mr. Mandeville, and that they held,
used, and occupied it for more than twenty years prior to their
said uncle's death, and that, too, with his personal knowledge and consent, and that they still hold, use, and occupy
it as their own property. If, then, the Misses Mandeville
entered on the premises under color or claim of title, and
held possession adversely to their uncle for so long a period,
with his knowledge, and without any attempt on his part .to
eject them, it gives them good right and title under Virginia
law, and is a complete bar to a possessory action, although it
might not be against a writ of right, founded on the seizin of
the appellant's devisor or testator, for in Virginia it has been
decided that a devisee, like an heir, may maintain a writ of
right.
1"1r. Davis, for the defendant in error, contended that the
exceptions were properly overruled: As to the first exception, because, 1. The realty as well as personalty being liable, under the
will and, law, to both debts and legacies, it is immaterial to the
residuary devisee and legatee to which object the personalty is
applied. Tayloe v. Thomson, 5 Pet. 367; 5 Geo. II. ch. 7
(1732); Silk v. Prime, 1 Dick. 384; 1 Bro. 0. C. 138, note;
2 Stat. at Large, 103, 104, sec. 1- 756, sec. 4.
2. Had the executor sold the specific legacy for payment of
debts, the legatee would have been substituted to the creditor's
rights against the realty; it being liable to the debts by law,
and charged with the legacies by will, and only the residue
given to West.
By analogy to specialty creditors, 2 Lomax on Executors,
252, 253, § 7, 253, 254, §§ 14,- 15, 16; Byrd v. Byrd, 2 Brock.
171.
Or where the devise ig of the residue of personalty and real-

JANUARY TERM,. 1850.

407

West v. Smith et al.

ty, Hanby v. Roberts, 1 Ambl. 129; 2 Smith's Ch. Pr. 282;
Norris v. Norris, 1 Dick. 253; Headly v. Redhead, Coop. 51.
Or when the lands are charged with debts, Keeling v. Brown,
5 Yes. 359; 2 Smith's Ch. Pr. 282, 283, (a); Eland v. Eland, 4
Myl. & Cr. 42; 1 Story's Eq. Jur. §§ 565, 5.6; Clifton v. Burt,
1 P. Wins. 678, 679, Cox's note; Haslewood v. Pope, 3 P. Wins.
323; 2 Lomax on Executors, 254, § 13.
3. The language of the will imports a debt, and this legacy
in satisfaction.
As to the second exception, because the commission is an
incident to the legacy, and has been allowed by the Orphans'
Court, and for the reasons given on the first exception.
As to the third exception, -because, 1. The exception does not specify item by item the part objected to, nor the grounds of objection, and is in the alternative. Harding v. Hardey, 11 Wheat. 103; Wilkes v. Rogers,
6 Johns. 568, 591, 592; Story v. Livingston, 13 Pet. 359, 365,
366; Buller v. Steele, reported in 2 Smith's Ch. Pr. 372.
2. If the exception covers all the items, then, as some are
proper, it must be overruled. Green v. Weaver, 1 Simons, 404 ;"
3 Cond. Ch. R. 204, 218, 219.
3. No objection was made before the master for want of, or
to the competency of, the proof.
4. The verdict and judgment fix the debt as due at testator's death ; and the receipts on the execution show its payment. Garret v. Macon, 2 Brock. 213, 214; Strodes v. Patton,
1 Brock. 230, 231; Powell v. Myers, 1 Dev. & Batt. Eq. 502;
Munford v. Overseers of Poor, 2 Rmnd. 313, 316; Chamberlayne v. Temple, 2 Rand. 384, 396, 397.
5. There is no bill of particulars, nor any part of the record
showing the items on which said judgment is founded.
6. The burden of showing the items to be barred rests on
the exceptaut, the judgment being lprim&facie evidence of a
just debt, and he has produced no proof, either of what the
items were, or of what proof was before the jury, or that any
of them were barred by limitation.
7. If he rely on the report and account incorporated by the
clerk in the record of Bartle v. Mandeville's Executor, it is no
part of the record, and so not competent evidence. Cunningham v. Mitchell, 4 Rand. 189, 190, 192; Moore v. Chapman, 3
Hen. & Munf. 269, 267; Lessor of Fisher v. Cockerel, 5 Pet.
248; Lessor of Reed v. Marsh, 13 Pet. 153. It does not appear ever to have been returned and filed in court, nor to have
been confirmed or adopted by the court or parties. No judgment was entered on it. It does not appear even to have been

408

SUPREME COU'RT.
West v. Smith et al.

read before the jury. Nor that it was all or the only evidence
before them ; and in the absence of proof to the contrary, the
verdict and judgment must be presumed right. Thompson v.
Tomlie, 2 Pet. 165; Grignon's Lessee v. Astor et al., 2 How.
319, 340; Voorhees v. Bank of United States, 10 Peters, 472,
473; Williams-v. United States, 1 How. 290; 1 Saund. 329,
notes 3, 4, 330, note 5; 2 Saund. 50, note 3; 1 Saund. 334,
note 9; 2 Lomax on Executors, 428, 429, § 33.
. 8. If the report is to be considered, then it does not appear
from it that any item allowed in that report accrued more than
five years before testator's death, nor more than five years before the commencement of the suit, and it rests on the exceptant
to show that the items were barred. Adams v. Roberts, 2 How.

486, 496.
Testator died 25th July, 1837, nar. filed Aug. rules, 1838.
The .ealias must have been before May, 1838; it may have been
J.-before O&ober, 1837, and on or at any time after July 25, 1837,
the date of testator's death.
All the items reported as due or as suspended, i. e. for
further evidence, appear-to have accrued during or after 1834, except $ 158.91%, the several sums of $ 26.88, $ 17.23, $ 22.37,
making $ 66.48, and $ 37.62.
The $ 37.62 is dated 1833; it may have accrued in January,
or in December, 1833; in either case, it may have been within
five years from the beginning of the suit; if after May, it must
have been so.
The items composing $ 66.48 have nothing to fix their date,
except that they are prior to April 30, 1835.
The item of $ 158.19, has no date assigned; it is only said
to have been found in a book for 1831, 1832, and 1833; if it
accrued due after July 25th, 1832, it may have been within five
years of writ, and -was within five years before testator's death.
Rev. Code (1792), .167, s. LVi. 8. The law requiring the
court to strike out the items barred, and dispensing with a plea
of limitation, the presumption is, that any item which, though
apparently barred, has not been stricken out, was sustained by
evidence removing the bar. 2 Lomax on Executors, 423, § 25;
2 Pet, 165; 2 Howard, 340; Brook v. Shelly, 4 Hen. & Munf.
266.
9. If-any items be apparently more than fiveyears before
suit, but nof before testator's death, the executor may have
promised to pay them within the five years; which he had a
right to do.
The obligation to plead statute is discretionary, and failure
should be shown to be unreasonable.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

409

West v. Smith et aL

10. The dealings between Bartle and .Mandeville were mutual, long continued, and complex, and probably neither party
kept or had full proof of all items, so that the only mode of
making a fair settlement was by reference to a commissioner,
with production of books and papers, and it should be shown
that this proceeding was ill advised, as in case of submission to
arbitration. Strodes v. Patton, 1 Brock. 230, 231.
11. It appears, on the contrary, to have been prudent and beneficial, for, -1st. Mandeville gets credit by his own books for
$ 912.01, 17th February, 1834. 2d. For $1314.06, for none
of which is there any proof in the record or report, and which
seems to have come entirely from Mandeville's books by consent of plaintiff. 3d. For the claims of S. B. Larmour & Co.,
Daniel Cawood & Co., against Bartle, included in the above
$ 1314.06, otherwise than by consent not an offset.
As to the seventh and eighth exceptions:1. A joint demand cannot be set off a!ainst a several demand. 2 Story's Eq. Jur. § 1437.
2. Credit for the whole sum is claimed against each legacy.
3. It does not appear that any such sum is due as claimed,
no tenancy being proved, and, on the contrary, an adverse occupation being expressly reported.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
The original proceeding in this case was a bill in chancery
instituted in September, 1839, in the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia, sitting for the County of Alexandria. The
object was to recover a legacy of $ 3,000, bequeathed by Joseph
Mandeville, in 1837, to Ellen Mandeville, now the wife of
Smith.
William C. Gardner, the executor, took upon himself the execution of the will, and was made one of the original defendants, with West and several other legateesF West, being residuary legatee, took a leading part in conducting the defence in
the Circuit Court, aud made the appeal to this court. Various
answers were put in by the respective respondents, several
depositions filed, and some documentary evidence. From these
it appears, that proceedings had for some time been instituted in
the Orphans' Court for the County of Alexandria, for the purpose of settling the estate of Joseph Mandeville. Most of the
debts had been adjusted, and some of the legacies; and the personal estate being exhausted, permission had been asked to sell
and apply a part of the real estate, situated in said county of
Alexandria, to pay the residue.
To this application, as well as to some of the previous pro-35
VOL. vill.

410

SUPR.EME

COURT.

West v. Smith et al.

ceedings and decrees in the Orphans' Court, sundry objections
had been interposed. But the exceptions made by West to the
last report of the commissioner, in the Circuit Court; in May,
1846, disclose all the matter finally relied on in opposition in
that court by the respondent. Those exceptions having been
there overruled, this appeal was taken.
Before going into the consideration of those exceptions in detail, and the correctness of the decision which was pronounced
upon them, it may be well to dispose of a preliminary question
raised here, that James Mandeville of Virginia, a legatee of
10,000 acres of land there situated, ought to be made a party
defendant, with those already before the court.
We feel obliged to overrule this objection.
It is not clear, that it -could be made here after an appeal;
though, if proper, the case might perhaps be sent back, and an
amendment made -there, - as new parties can be admitted there
as late as the final hearing. (Mitford, P1. 144, 145; Owing's
case, 1 Bland, Ch. 292; Clark v. Long, 4 Rand. 451.)
At the same time, it is true as to exceptions to a master's report, that none can generally'be made in the appellate court
which were not taken below. Brockett et al. v. same, 3 How.
691. The objection here, however,, must in any view be overruled, because the Orphans' as well as the Circuit Court, for the
county of Alexandria,-proceeded, and ought to have proceeded,
against parties and property situated within their limits, and
hot against either situated like James Mandeville and his
land in Virginia, and without their jurisdiction. Hallett v. Hallett, 2 Paige, 15; Townsend v. Auger, 3 Conn. 354. Though
he held his land under the same will, yet it is admitted that he
and his land were both in another State. Another excuse for
not joining him is, that property enough existed within the
county of Alexandria to discharge the claims of the original
plaintiffs, without a resort to James Mandeville, or the land devised
to him. Russell v. Clarke's Executors, 7 Cranch, 72.
Especially
must West and all the property devised to him
be first made liable, as he is .only a residuary legatee, or, in
other words, is entitled only to what is- left, after all others are
satisfied. And, finally, it was not necessary to make James
Mandeville a party to this bill, whei neither he nor his land
could be affected by a decree made against other persons and
other lands, and in a case instituted in another jurisdiction and
in which no service had-been made on him. West v. Randall,
2 Mason, C. 0. 181; -Joy v. Wirtz, -1 Wash. C. C. 517; Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152; Wheelan v. Wheelan, 3
Cowen, 538:.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

411

West v. Smith et al.

To proceed next to the consideration of the exceptions
made below, it is to be remembered that the first one was
waived at the hearing, and need not, therefore, be repeated.
The second exception is, that the executor, Gardner, was improperly allowed a commission of $ 84.29 on a specific legacy
of slaves, furniture, &c., made and paid to Sarah A. Hill.
This commission was at the rate of ten per cent.; and though
that rate seems high, yet, if the Orphans' Court had autnority
to make any allowance in such a case, its decision within
its authority and jurisdiction must be considered binding. 1
Peters, 566; Thomas v. Fred. City School, 9 Gill & Johns. 115.
On. general principles, it would seem just and proper for all
such courts to make some compensation to executors for such
services as paying over legacies, no less than for paying debts.
In the case of specific legacies, the trouble and risk are as
great, if not greater, than in moneyed legacies, and it would be
diMcult to find elementary principles to justify commissions in
one case, and withhold them in the other.
If this point is to be governed by these principles, as it'must
be, provided the laws of Virginia at that time controlled .the
matter in the county of Alexandria, then the exception must
fail under those principles, and under a practice, well settled
there, authorizing in such cases a quantum meruit. Under
that, as much as ten per cent. on moneys received and paid out
has in several instances been sanctioned. McCall v. Peachy,
3 Munf. 301; and Hutchinson v. Kellam, Ibid. 202.
But if it is to be governed by the laws of Maryland, as is
contended by the plaintiffs, a like result will follow, by means
of express statutory provisions and decisions in that State.
They contend this, becauq in February, 1801, Congress established in Washington and Alexandria Counties an Orphans'
Court for each county, and provided that they "shall have all
the powers, perform all the duties, and receive the like fees, as
are exercised, performed, and received by the register of wills
and judges of the Orphans' Court within the State of Maryland," &c. 2 Statutes at Large, p. 107, § 12; Yeaton v. Lyrnn,
5-Peters, 230..
It is argued, that this provision extended to the power and
duty of the Orphans' Court in Virginia to allow commissions
as large as here, and for specific as well as moneyed legacies,
and not to the mere organic structure and jurisdiction of the
Orphans' Court,-leaving all else in Alexandria County to be
governed by the laws of Virginia, and in Washington County
by the laws of Maryland.
If his view be correct, which is supposed to be the one

412.

SUPREME

COURT.

West v. Smith et al.

usually acted on in this District, it was provided in Maryland'
by statute in 1798, ch. 101, that a commission may be allowed,
"not inder five per cent., nor exceeding ten per cent. on the
amount of the inventory." Nichols et al. v. Hodges, 1 Peters,
565; 5 Gill & Johns. 64.
The third exception is, that a judgment was allowed by the
executor to be recovered by one Bartle against the eitate of the
deceased Mandeville, which "was unsustained by legal proof,
and barred by the statute of limitations."
But this judgment was recovered after due notice and hearing. No fraud or collusion is set up or proved between the
parties to it, for the purpose of charging the estate. And the
chief, if not only, exception to its fairness or validity is, that
Gardner, the executor, .did not plead the statute of limitations
to a part of the claim on account, when he might have done
it under the apparent time when the cause of action accrued
on that item. - But in Virginia, and. especially if the court,
by not striking out the item, sanction a waiver of the statute, as is inferred to have been done here, the executor seems
fully justified in not pleading it. (2 Lomax on Executors,
419; Bishop v. Harrison, 2 Leigh, 532; 1 Robinson's Practice,
112; 1 Rev. Stat. 492.) So in England, formerly, the executor was held excused in his discretion from interposing as a defence the statute of limitations. (Norton v. Frecker, 1 Atk.
526.) But in a recent case, doubt is cast over this in England,
in 9 Dowl. & Ryl. 43.
The Virginia law, however, must control here, and gonduces
to justice, when the court or the executor is satisfied no payment has been made, or that there had been a re-promise by the
deceased. Holladay's Ex'rs v. Littlepage, 2 Munf. 316; 4 Hen.
& Munf. 266.
Atf 'all events, on elementary principles, the judgment thus
obtained must stand as binding till duly reversed, and be till
then for most purposes presumed correct. Voorhees v. Bank of
United States, 10 Peters, 472, 489; 2 Howard, 319; Lupton
v. Janney, 13 Peters, 381..
Under the sixth andseventh exceptions, the respondent insists that Mary and Julia Mandeville, legatees of the deceased,
ought to lhave been charged rent for a piece of land which
.they occupied, and that the amount thereof ought to have
been deducted from these legacies.
It is true that this land once belonged to the deceased, but
Mary and Julia insist that they have been in the exclusive occupation of it for more than twenty years. They had always
since their entry claimed it as their own, and this land was not,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

413

West v. Smith et al.

by name, devised by the deceased to any one, as if still his
property. The legatees insisted, that at first, being relations
of J. Mandeville, and the premises contiguous to their house,
they were given to them for a garden, and that their possession
had ever since been adverse to all the world. Nor was there
any contract shown to pay rent by them to him; nor any proof
that rent had ever been demanded by him, while living. Without, then, settling here the disputed title to this property, it is
sufficient to say, that under these peculiar circumstances such
a use and occupation of these premises would not warrant the recovery of rent from them in an action of assumpsit at law.
1 Chit. Pl. 107; Birch v. Wright, 1 D. & E. 387; Smith v.
Stewart, 6 Johns. 46. Such an action must rest on-a contract
express or implied. Lloyd v. Hough, 1 Howard, 159, and
cases there cited. And if no implied promise could be raised
to recover rent, when the occupation is adverse, and no express one is pretended to exist, the executor could not legally
set off this claim against their legacies.
The rights to the land, or to any rent thereon, must be settled by a direct action at law, and not in this collateral manner; and if the legatees do not succeed there, they can be made
to pay, in. trespass, for mesne profits, what they are not liable
for as rent, e-- contractu, when holding adversely.
A concluding objection to the proceedings below, subsequent
to overruling the written exceptions to the report, is, that the
court proceeded to a final decree whilst the claims of two of
the creditors and two of the legatees were held under consideration.
But either those claims are independent and not necessary
to be decided before a final decision on the rest, - or they are
so connected, that a decision on them was proper at the same
time, and then this appeal itself would be premature, and would
have to be dismissed. 4 Howard, 524; Perkins v. Fourniquet et al., 6 Howard, 206. This, it is understood, is not
moved, nor desired by either party.
Such independent claims, however, may properly be suspended under the circumstances existing here, according to Royal's
Administrators v. Johnson et al., 1 Randolph, 421.
The judgment below must, therefore, be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the County of Alexandria,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
35*

414

SUPREME COURT.
Murrill et al. v. Neill et al.

now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the
decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

JoHN D.

v.

MURRILL

AND

THE BANK OF NEW ORLEANS, APPELLANTS.
T. SOMERVILLE.

ALEXANDER NEILL AND WILLIAx

A merchant who owed debts upon his own private account, and was also a partner
in two commercial houses which owed debts upon partnership account, executed a
deed of trust containing the following provisions, viz.:It recited a relinquishment of dower by his wife in property previously sold and in
the property then conveyed, and also a debt due to the daughter of the grantor,
which was still unpaid, and then proceeded to declare that he was indebted to"
divers other persons residing in different parts of the United Sfates, the names of
whom he -&as then unable to specify particularly, and that'the trustee should remit,frofh time to time to Alexander Neill, of the first moneys arising from sales,
until he shall have remitted the sum of $ 15,000, to be paid by the said Neill to the
creditors of the said grantor, whose demands shall then have been ascertained;
and if such demands shall exceed the sum of $. 5,000, then to be divided amongst
such creditors parijpassu;and out of further remittances there was to be paid the
sum of $12,000 to his wife as a compensation for her relinquishment of dower,
and next the debt due to his daughter, and after that the moneys arising from
further sales werd to be applied to the payment of all the creditors of the grantor
whose demands shall then have been ascertained. In case of a surplus, it was to
revert to the grantor.
The construction of this deed must be, that the grantor intended to provide for his
private creditors only out of this fund, leaving the partnership creditors to be paid
out of the partnership funds.
Under the deed, it was the duty of the trustee to divide the first S 15,000 amongst the
private creditors of the grantor, and exclude from all participation therein the
creditors of the two commercial houses with which the grantor was connected;
next to pay the debts due to the wife and daughter; then to pay in full the private
creditors, or divide the amount amongst them, proportionally.
The rule is, that partnership creditors shall, in the first instance, be satisfied from
the partnership estate; and separate or private creditors of the individual partners
from the separate and private estate of the partners, with whom they have made
private and individual contracts; and that the private and individual property of
the partners shall not be applied in extinguishment of partnership debts, until the
separate and individual creditors of the respective partners shall be paid.
The American and'English cases respecting this rule examined.

* THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Maryland, under the following circumstances.
On the 24th of September, 1839, Luke Tiernan, of the city
of Baltimore, and Anne, his wife, made a deed of trust to
Charles H. Carroll, of Livingston County, New York, thereby
conveying to said Carroll about 5,888 acres of land, part of
Tuscarora Tract in said Livingston County, of which Luke
Tiernan.was seized in fee simple as his individual property.
The property so conveyed is in said deed estimated to be.worth
about $ 120,000."

