317

JANUARY TERM, 1850.
Bissell v. Penrose.

LEwis

BISSELL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,
DEFENDANT.

v. MAtY B. PENROSE,

A concession, having no defined boundaries, made by the Lieutenant-Governor of
UpperLouisiana in 1799, but not surveyed, cannot be considered as "property,"
and, as such, protected by the courts of justice, without a sanction by the political
power, under the third article of the treaty with France made in 1803.
'The Lieutenant-Governor of Upper Louisiana had the authority, as a sub-dclegate,
to grant concessions, direct surveys, and place grantees in possession; but no perfect title to the land passed until the concession and a copy of the survey were
delivered to the Intendant-General at New Orleans, 'and also a proces-verbal attesting the fact that the survey was made in the presence of the commandant, or
in that of a syndic and two neighbours. On these the legal title was founded, and
then perfected and recorded.
The mere circumstance that another plat, containing different land, was upon the
same sheet of paper which contained the genuine plat, and which was filed in the
recorder's office, was not sufficient to invalidate the claim; because the name of
the claimant was written upon the face of the one describing the tract claimed,
and that was the only one before the commissioners.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Missouri.
It was one of those land cases which arose from a conflict of
title between an old Spanish concession, confirmed under the
various acts of Congress upon the subject, and a title derived
under' a New Madrid grant. All these acts of Congress bearing upon both titles are set forth in the case of Stoddard v.
Chambers, reported in 2 Howard, 284, and the substance of
them need not be repeated here. The following is a list of
them.
References to Acts of Congress.
Land Laws, Sen. E. 183.
Date.
Vol. l,page 112
March 26th, 1804,
CC 1, " 122
March 2d, 1805,
CC 1, " 132
February 28th, 1806,
Cc 1, C 138
21st,
1806,
April
cc 1, " 155
March 3d, 1807,
" 1, cc 189
March 3d, 1811,
" 1, " 216
June 13th, 1812,
cc 1, " 230
March 3d, 1813,
CC 1, cc 233
August 2d, 1813,
cc 1, C 242
April 12th, 1814,
cc 255
CC 1
February 17th, 1815,
CC 1' ,1 280
April 29th, 1816,
'c 1, " 293
February 17th, 1818,
CC 1, " 299
April 9th, 1818,
C 1,
cc 344
April 26th, 1822,
" 1,
385
May 26th, 1824,
C 1,
C 419
May 22d, 1826,
C 1,
C 425
March 2d, 1827,
U 1,
cc 442
May 24th, 1828;
c 1, " 488
March 2d, 1831,
cc 1, C 505
July 9th, 1832,
C 1,
CC 518
March 2d, 1833,
1, CC557
July 4th, 1836,

27 *

U.S. Stat. at Large.
Vol. 2,page 287
CC 2,
CC 324
cc 2, cc 382
CC 2, 'C 391
"C 2, " 440
" 2, cc 620
cc 2, cc 748
" 2, CC 812
86
CC 3,
C
CC 3, cc 121
cc 3, cc 211
C 3, " 328
C 3:
C 406
" 3, c 417
CC 3,
CC 668
CC 4, cc 52
cc 4,

cc 4,
CC 4,
CC 4,
" 4,
cc 4,

CC 219
14 298
It 482
cc 565
CC 661
CC 726

Story's Ed. L. U. S.
Vol. 2, page 933
1 2, "
966
2,
986
'
1018
" 2,
" 2, " 1059
" 2, " 1193
" 2, " 1257
" 2, " 1306
" 2, " 1384
" 2, " 1410
" 2, " 1500
" 3, c 1604
3, " 1659
CC

CC

"

"

3,
3,

"

1841
1959

'

3,

"

2048

4,
4,

C

"

S4,
U

4,
4,

2135
2250
2305
" 2359
" 2815

318

SUPREME -COURT.
Bissell v. Penrose.

It was an action of ejectment brought in the Circuit Court
by Mary B. Penrose, the defendant in error, who claimed under the Spanish concession, against Bissell, who claimed under
the New Madrid certificate which was located upon the land in
controversy in March, 1818. We will first state, the title of
the plaintiff below, and then that of the defendant.
The petition and concession were as follows, viz. :
"The sons of, Vasquez, claiming 800 arpens each.
"To Don Carlos Dehault Delassus, Lieutenant-Governor of
Upper Louisiana.
Benito, Antoine, Hypolite, Joseph, and Pierre Yas"SIR,quez, all of them sons of Don Benito Vasquez, captain of militia of this town, brevetted by his Catholic Majesty, full of confidence in the generosity and benevolence of the government
under which they are born, hope that you will be pleased to
take into consideration the unfortunate situation in which they
find themselves by the want of means of their family, which
has been living for some time in distressing circumstances, and
unable to give them the necessary education; therefore, wishing to procure to themselves, in the course of time, an independent existence, they think of forming an establishment which
may one day insure their welfare. They flatter themselves,
Sir, that the services of their father will assure to them your
protection, and the goodness of your heart will lead you to
grant their demand ; consequently, they supplicate you to grant
to- each of them eight hundred arpens of land, in superficie,
making altogether the quantity of four thousand arpens, which
they wish to take in one or several places of the vacant lands
of the king's domain. Favor which your petitioners presume
to hope from your justice.
"S1t. Louis, February16th, 1800.

BENITO YAsuEz,
ANTOINE YAsquEz,
HYPOLITE "ASQUEZ,
JOSEPH YASqUEZ,

PIERRE VAsQuEz.

"St. Louis of Illinois, February 17th, 1800.
"After seeing the precedent statement, and the laudable motives which animate the petitioners, and considering that their
family is one of the most ancient in this country, and worthy
of all the benevolence of government, as much for their personal merit as on account of the services [of the] father of the
petitioners, I do grant to .said petitioners, for them and their
,heirs, the land which they solicit, if it [is] not prejudicial to

JANUARY TERM, 1b50.

319

Rissell v. Penrose.

any body; and the surveyor, Don Antonio Soulard, shall put
the interested party in possession of the-quantity of land asked
for, in one or two vacant places of the royal domain, after
which he shall draw a plat, which he shall deliver to the interested parties, with his certificate, to serve them in obtaining
the concession and title in form from the Intendant-General, to
whom alone corresponds, by royal order, the distributing and
granting all classes of lands of the royal domain.
A true translation.

" CARLos DEHAULT DELASSUS.

" JULIUS DE MuN.

SSt. Louis, October 27, 1832."
On the 11th of February, 1806, Benito Yasquez, the eldest
son, assigned his 800 arpens to Rudolph Tillier.
On the 27t1 of February, 1806, a survey and plat of the
land was made by James Mackay, locating it about two miles
northwest of St. Lois, as appeared by the following certificate: "I do certify, that the above plat represents 800 arpens of
land, French measure, situated in the district of St. Louis,
Louisiana Territory, and surveyed by me at the request of the
proprietor, who claims the same by virtue of a Spanish grant.
"Given under my hand at St. Louis, this 27th day of February, in the year of our Lord 1806.
"Received for record, St. Louis, February 27, 1806.
ANTOINE SOULARD,

Surveyor- General Territory Louisiana."
On the 25th of August, 1806, Tillier filed his claim bWfore
the first Board of Commissioners. There were two plats filed,
covering different tracts of land, both of which plats were
upon the same sheet of paper; but upon the face of one of
them was written the name of the claimant at full length.
This one included the land in controversy, and was the only
one considered by the commissioners.
On the 22d of September, 1810, the board decided that this
claim "ought not to be confirmed."
On the 3d of October, 1832, this claim was brought before
another Board of Commissioners, which, on the 2d of November, 1833, passed the following order: " Saturday, November 2d, 1833.
"The board met pursuant to adjournment. Present, Lewis
F. Linn, A. G. Harrison, F. R: Conway, Commissioners.

320

SUPREME COURT.
Bissell v. Penrose.

"The sons of Vasquez, each claiming 800 arpens of land
under a concession from Charles Dehault Delassus. See page
17. The board remark, that they can see no cause for entertaining the idea that the said concession was not issued at the
time it bears date, as intimated in the minutes of the former
commissioners.
"The board. are unanimously of opinion, that this claim
ought to be confirmed to the said Benito, Antoine, Hypolite,
Joseph, and Pierre Vasquez, or their legal representatives, according to the concession.
"The board adjourned until to-morrow, at 9 o'clock, A. M.
L. .F. LiNN,
F. R. CONWAY,
A. G. HAiRI5ON."
This claim was confirmed by the act of Congress of 4th
July, 1836; and. again surveyed by. the United States surveyor
on the 29th of March, 1842, according to the original survey
of Mackay, filed with the claim in 1806. The claim was assigned by Tillier to'C. B. Penrose, who .conveyed it to Mary
B. (the plaintiff below) and Anna H. W. Penrose, on the 20th
of February, 1823.
The title of Bissell, the defendant below, was as follows.
The defendant produced and 'read in evidence, 1. A certificate issued by-the recorder of land titles, No. 164,
dated 4th November, 1816, whereby it is certified, that, in conformity to the provisions of an act of-Congress of 17th February, 1815, John Brooks, or his legal representatives, is entitled
to locate 709 irpens on any of the public lands of the Territory of Missouri, the sale of which is authorized by law.
2. The location and survey thereof, No. 2541, made in
March, 1818, which includes -the land in controversy.
3. A patent. certificate, No. 308, issued by the recorder of
land titles,, 17th November, 1822, whereby it is certified, that,
in pursuance of an act of Congress passed the 17th of February, 1815, a location certificate, No. 164, issued from the office
of the recorder,,in favor of John Brooks, or his legal representatives, for 709 arpensof land, that a location had been made
b the"plat of survey, No. 2541, and that the said John Brooks,
or his legal repregentatives, is entitled to a patent for the said
tract, containing, according to the location, 603,W acres, in
township 45 north, range 7 east.
It was admitted that the title of John Brooks was vested in
the defendant below, by mesne conveyances, on the 14th of
February, 1824; and it was proved that one Brady, under
whom the defendant below acquired title, had his mansion-.

JANUARY TERM, 1§50.

321

Bissell v. Penrose.

house adjacent to the land in controversy, and occupied a part
thereof before the year 1824, and that the same has been ever
since oqcupied; that the defendant Bissel extended his improvements over the whole fifty-five acres as early as 1829 or 1830.
The defendant then asked the following instructions, which
the court refused to give, and each of them; to which refusal
the defendant by his counsel excepted; which instructions are
in the words and.figures following :Instructions refused.
1. That the land sued for in this action was not reserved
from sale by the act of Congress of 3d March, 1811, in consequence of the filing of the claim of Rudolph Tillier, with the
concessioA to Benito, Antoine, Hypolite, Joseph, and Pierre
Vasquez, and other documents, with the recorder of land titles,
as given in evidence in this case.
2. That the confirmation by the Board of Commissioners to
Benito, Antoine, Hypolite, Joseph, and Pierre Vasquez, given in
evidence in this case, ratified by act of Congress of 4th July,
1836, did not vest any title in the land sued for in this action
in. the plaintiff.
3. That the plaintiff has shown no title on which she can recover of the defendant the land sued for in this action, or any
part thereof..
4. That the plaintiff, if entitled. to recover in this action, can
recover only the undivided 'tenth of so much of the land sued
for as the defendant was in possession of at the commencement
of this suit.
5. If the jury find from the evidence that Rudolph Tillier,
under whom the plaintiff in this case cl-aims the land in question, filed his claim with the recorder of land titles, and, as a
part of the evidence of his claim, filed two plats of the land
claimed, one of which plats would embrace the land now in
the defendant's possession, and the other would not embrace
that land, then there is no reservation of the land in defendant's possession from sale, which would prevent the location
of the land in question, under.the certificate in favor of John
Pro6ks, or his legal representatives.
6. That the confirmation of the claim of Benito Vasquez
and others, given in evidence by the plaintiff, being according
to the concession, is in itself a rejection of the survey made by
Mackay, which has been given in evidence; and under that
confirmation there is no authority for a survey upon the land
located under *the certificate in favor of John Brooks, or hislegal representatives.

322

SUPREME COURT.
Bissell v. Penrose.

7. That the survey given in evidence by plaintiff, of 800
arpens, made by Mackay in 1806, being a mere private survey
made of a part of the public domain, in violation of an act of
Congress prohibiting such surveys at that time under severe
penalties, is not in law any part of the claim filed- before the
recorder of land titles, and cannot come in aid thereof, so as to
work a reservation from sale, under the act of Congress of 3d
March, 1811, of said 800 arpens.
The plaintiff then asked the following instruction, which
the court gave; to. the giving which the defendant, by his
counsel, excepted. Which instruction is as follows :Instruction,given.
That the land included in the survey given in evidence, and
which was made for Rudolph Tillier, assignee of Benito Vasquez, on the 27th of February, 1806, by James Mackay, and
which was officially resurveyed in conformity to the act of
Congress of the 4th of July, 1836, and which resurvey is numbered 3,061, and was approved by Jos. C. Brown on the 29th
of March, 1842, was reserved from location and sale at the time
oMcNight and Brady's location, under a New Madrid claim, was
made; and, therefore, the location under said claim is invalid
as against the title of said Vasquez, or those claiming through
him, to the extent that the two claims cover the same land,
and that the land included by both the surveys aforesaid is the
land confirmed to Benito Vasquez, or his legal representatives,
by the act of Congress of the 4th of July, 1836, and that the
confirmation operated as a grant to said Yasquez, or his legal
representatives; such being the legal effect of the acts of Congress, records, and title-deeds given in evidence.
And the defendant prays the court to sign and seal this his
bill of exceptions, which is done accordingly.
J.CATR0N; [L. S.]
Upon this exception the case came up to this court. .
It was ve'r'y elaborately argued by M11r. Benton and Mr.
Gamble, for the plaintiff in error, with whom was Mr. Geyer,
and by Mr. Good and Mr. Ewing, for the defendant. It is
impossible to do more than state the points raised by the counsel r~slectively.
Those on behalf of the plaintiff in error were the following.
I. The report of the late Board of Commissioners, ratified by
the act- of the 4th of July, 1836, -is not a confirmation according
to either of the plats of suryey filed by Rudolph Tillier, under
whom the defendant in error claims, nor of any survey, but

JANUARY

TERM, 1§50.

32a

Bissell v. Penrose.

operates as a grant, according to the concession of 4,000 arpens
of land, to be located in one or two places of the public 4omain.
1. The confirmatory act- confirms nothing but the condession, the only document mentioned or referred to in the decision, and therefore it cannot be assumed that any survey, or plat
of survey, whatever, was adopted. Mackay v. Dillon, 4 Howard, 448. It is a public grant, and passes nothing that is not
described in terms, or by specific reference to something out of
it. Blake v. Doherty, 5 Wheat. 359; Dyer, 350 b, 362 a;
Cro. Car. 169; 10 Co. 65, 112 b; Charles River Bridge v.
Warren Bridge, 11 Peters, 420.
2. The concession is a floating warrant of survey, conferring
no title to any specific land, and a confirmation'An terms, according to that concession, does not give it a special location or
.boundaries. Forbes'&. case, 15 Peters, 184; Buyck's case,
Ibid. 215;. O'Hara's case, Ibid. 275; Delespine's case, fbid."
319; Miranda's case, 16 Peters, 159, 160; United States v.
King, 3 Howard, 773; Mackay v. Dillon, 4 Howard, 448.
3. If any thing can be resorted to, other than the decision
and the concession to which it refers, for the purpose of determining the legal effect of the grant, it must appear by the
transcript laid before Congress, and that cannot be contradicted,
altered, or varied by oral evidence. 1 Phil. Ev. 218, 423: 3
Starkie's Ev. 995- 997.
4. The particular survey mentioned in the instruction given
at the trial, if in fact executed, was prohibited by law, and is a
mere nullity, (United States v. Hanson, 16- Peters, 196,) and
was never recognized by the recorder and commissioners as the
foundation of the claim, or as evidence of its locatioq and boundaries.
5. The claim, considered by the recorder and commissioners
under the act of 1832, was made by the original grantees, on
the concession alone, and the decision by special reference to
that claim and concession excludes all other claimants and
documents. Co. Lit. 210 a, 183 b.
6. No plat of survey was transmitted with the transcript,' or
in -any form presented to Congress. The confirmatory act,
therefore, can have reference only to the face of the concession;
regardless of any survey whatever. Mackay v. Dillon; 4 Howard, 448; McDonogh v. Millandon, 3 Howard, 693.
II. Whatever land is granted or confirmed, by the report and
act of Congress, is granted or confirmed to the five sons of
Yasquez, named in the decision of the commissioners, or their
legal representatives, and not to any one of them, and his representatives, in exclusion of all the others.

324

SUPREME COURT.
Bissell v. Penrose.

The concession does not contemplate
or authorize a
severance of the interest of the grantees, by survey or otherwise, by the act of one of them or his representatives.
2. No survey for any one-of the grantees has ever been recognized by the government.
3. Every claim under the concession in severalty was rejected by the first Board of Commissioners, and none such was
presented to, taken up, or recognized in any form, under the act
of 1832.
4. The-decision, as entered in the transcript, and confirmed
by Congress, is in terms in favor of all the original grantees, by
name, according to the concession, and no one of them can be
excluded from the benefit of the grant, or preferred in the location.
i1. The defendant in error is not the legal representative of
Benito Vasquez, Jr., or of any of the grantees named in the decision of the commissioners, and acquired no title to the land
sued for, by the confirmation.
1. The instrument of writing purporting to be a transfer
from Tillier to C. B. Penrose, under which alone she claims,
not being a deed, is inoperative as a conveyance of a freehold
estate. Moss v. Anderson, 7 Mo. 337; McCabe v. Hunter's
Heirs, Ibid. 355.
2. That instrument is, in terms, a mere assignment of the
interest of Tillier in the concession and plats of survey, and
No interest in lands
does not purport to convey lands.
passes by a mere assignment of evidences of title. 2 Ham.
221; Fitzhugh v. Croghan, 2 J. J. Marsh. 429.
^3. Taken as an operative conveyance of land, the transfer
does not pass an, estate of inheritance. Martin v. Long, 3 Mo.
391.
4. -The transfer, if- otherwise unexceptionable, at most conveys only such *right, title, and interest as the grantee had at
the time; the title, if any, afterwards acqnired by the confirmation, does not inure to his grantee. McCracken v. Wright,
14 Johns. 193; Jackson v. Hubble, 1 Cowen, 613; Jackson
v. Winslow, 9 Cowen, 13; Jackson v. Peck, 4 Wend. 300;
Missouri Stat., Rev. Code, 1825, p. 217; Landis et al. v. Perkins, 12 Mo.
IV. The instruction given at the trial, "that the land included in the survey given in evidence, and which was made
for Rudolph Tillier, assignee of Benito Vasquez, on the 27th of
-February, tqO6, by James Mackay, and which was -officially
resurveyed by survey No. 3,061, was reserved from, location
and sale at the time the location under the New Madrid claim
was made," is erroneous, because, 11.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

325

Bissell v. Penrose.

1. The survey referred to was not only private and unauthorized, but prohibited by positive "ltw,and is of no effect
whatever, as fixing the locality and boundaries of the concession, or as the foundation of a claim.. Garcia v. Lee, 12 Peters,
511 ; Smith's case, 10 Peters, 327 "-Wherry's case, Ibid. 338 ;
Jourdan et al. v. Barrett, 4 I-Iowa .d 169; Mackay.v. Dillon,
Ibid. 448.
2. The plat of a private or .forbiaden survey is not authorized or required to be filed- With the recorder of land titles ;
and being, in this case, both made and filed contrary to law, is
of no effect for any purpose. "Kesns v. Swope, 2 Watts, 75;
Heister v. Fortner, 2 Binney, 40 ;. Dewitt v. Moulton, 5 Shepl.
418; Blood v. Blood, 23 Pick: 80; Summer v. Rhodes, 14
Conn. 135; Mummey v. Johnston,'3 A. K. Marsh. 220.
3. The concession containing no special location, and the
survey being an absolute nullity, no particular tract of land was
brought within the proviso of the tenth section of the act of
March, 1811.
4. There were two plats of survey filed at the same time,
differing from each other, and, nothing appearing on the record
to distinguish which of them designates the land claimed, the
court was not authorized to elect between them. Mackay v.
Dillon,- 4 Howard, 448.
5. The official survey, No. 3,061, has no effect on the question of reservation.
6. What particular land was embraced by the plats originally filed depended upon facts to be proved aliunde, and upon
which the identity was to be found by the jury, and not by
the court or by the act of the surveyor.
7. The reservation of the land included in the survey for
Tillier, in 1806, if any there was, ceased before the location,
under which the plaintiff in error claims, was made.
V. If it shall be held that the location was .made on land
within the proviso of the tenth section of the act of 3d March,
1811, and while it was in force, "the legal effect of the acts of
Congress, records, and title papers, given in evidence," is not to
render the location invalid as against the confirmation by the
act of 1836.
14 The location, survey, and patent certificates being in other
respects regular, vested in John Brooks, or his legal representatives, a title valid against the United States, which was defeasible only by a confirmation of the conflicting claim during the
continuance of the reservation. Barry v. Gamble, 3 Howard,
32; Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 Ho3vard, 317; Polk's Lessee v.
Wendell, 5 Wheat. 293 ; Bagnell v. Brodrick, 13 Peters, 436:
28
VOL. vi,.

SUPREME COURT.
Bissell v. Penrose.

Strother v. Licas, 6 Peters, 763 ; 12 lb. 410 ; Grignon's Lessee
v. Astor, 2 Howard, 319; Chouteau v. Eckhart, Ibid. 376; Carroll v. Safford, 3 Howard, 460; Levi v. Thompson, 4 Howard,
17.
2. The reservation, if any, ceased at least- as early as the
26th of May, 1829, and thereby the title under the location became indefeasible','and could- not be affected by legislation afterward§. .City of New Orleans v. D'Armas, 9 Peters, 224;
Fletcher i. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87; Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Peters,
657. ,
3. The act of the 9th July, 1832, has no effect whatever on
the land or -the title under the location. Having no retrospective operation -upon any vested interest, it cannot defeat a title
indefeasible when it was passed.
4. Neither the claim of Tillier, nor of any other person, to the
-particular land described in either of the surveys,.was presented,
considered, or reported upon,- under the act of 1832, and consequently there was no reservation of that land created, 'revived,
or continued by that act.
5. The confirmation by the act of 1836 does not relate to
any antecedent period, so as to overreach a title before valid
against the United States. "Jackion v. Bard, 4 Johns. 230;
Heath v.Ross, 12 ib. 140; Strother v. Lucas, 12 Peters, 410;
Chouteau v. Eckhart, 2 Howard, 376; Les Bois .v. Bramell, 4
lb. 449.
6. There was no confirmation of the claim of Tillier, or of
any other person, for the land described in either. of the plats
filed in 1806.
7. The confirmation to the five sons of Vasquez, "according
to the concession," has no effect whatever upon the land previously located, or the title under the location.
8. The simvey No: 3,061 is not in conformity with the confirmatioi, and, to the extent of its interference with the previous
is void.
"VI. location,
The second
section of the act of Congress of the 4th July, 1836, confirms the title' under the location, survey, and patent certificate, as against any confirmation, notwithstanding
any pr'evious reservation of the land from sale.
1."Itdoes not enlarge, but restrains and limits, the operation
of the'first section, by a condition annexed to the confirmation.
2. Its' object is to affirm locations and sales, which, on account of some infirmity, needed, or were supposed to require,
legislative aid, not those which, being valid and regular, needed
no afirmance. Jackson v. Clark, 1 Peters, 635.
3. The defects .and irregularities intended to be cured are

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

327

Bissell v. Penrose.
conmnon to both locations and sales, and which, if not cured, it
Was supposed might give priority t the confirmations.
4. The confirmations are in conflict with the titles under
locations or sales, only when the lands located or sold are reserved from sale by reason of the filing of the claim confirmed,
in due time and according to law.
5. No titles under locations or sales are protected, if none
are protected but those made on lands not reserved, which is to
render the second section of the act of 4th July, 1836, superfluous and insignificant; for such titles need no legislative aid,
as against a confirmation. 8 Co. 274 c; Fletcher v. Peck, 6
Cranch, 87; City of New Orleans v. D'Armas, 9 Peters, 224.
The counsel for the defendant in error considered the ease of
Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 Howard, 284, as ruling all the points
Nevertheless, as it had been
involved in the present case.
brought up and argued as new matter not included within the
decision of the court in that case, they would consider it as
such, and therefore presented the following points.
The -plaintiff in error derives his title by regular transmission
under a New Madrid certificate, which was located in March,
1818, on the land in controversy. A "patent certificate "1was
issued to him on the 17th November, 1822, but no patent. He
has had possession since 1829.. His- rights, if any he be adjudged to have, were conferred by the act of the 17th of February, 1815, known as the New Madrid act. In virtue of this
act he was authorized to locate his certificate on any of the
public lands of the Territory of Missouri, the sale of which was,
at the time of such location, authorized by law.
1st. In support of the claim as shown by the defendant in error, we shall rely on the treaty of 1803, in virtue of which the
Missouri Territory was acquired; the Act of Congress of 2d of
March, 1805;. the Act of the 15th of February, 1811, ch. 81,
sec. 10; the Act of the 3d of March, 1811, sec. 10; and also
the Act of the 17th of February, 1818; all of which,, we shall
contend, recognized the validity of the plaintiff's claim, and operated as a reservation thereof from any disposition or sale by
the United States prior to the passage of the act of tie 26th of
May, 1824. We shall cite the opinion of this court in 4 Peters,
512, repeated in 10 Peters, 330, and the case of Strother v. Lucas, 19 Peters, 436, to show the nature of the plaintiff's claim,
and his right to a recognition and a confirmation of that claim
by the United States. We shall rely upon the authority of
these cases to show that the claim was, at least, an eqfuitable
right, which, under the Spanish government, must have been

328

SUPREME COURT.
Bissell v. Penrose.

perfected; -the
United States are bound by every consideration which could operate upon the government of Spain, to
perfect this right.
2d. We shall contend that there has been no forfeiture of
this claim, by virtue of the act of the 26th of April, 1804, or that
of 1807, or by any act subsequent thereto, and having reference to the same subject; that these acts never were in fact intended to operate as a penalty or forfeiture, but were merely
precautionary and provisional. We shall further contend that
the position of the plaintiff is not more unfavorable than that
of the pregmptioner, who, although a trespasser upon the public domain, has yet been recognized by the State authorities
and by the United States as having a claim in virtue of his preemption, which could not be defeated by a New Madrid certificate and location, or even by a patent issued thereon. Rector
v. Welch, I Mo. 238. Opinion of Attorney-General, Wirt, in a
letter to the Secretary of the Treasury, dated 27th January,
1821; and the Act of 2d March, 1831, in reference to, and embodying the opinion of the Attorney-General on this subject.
3d. That the effect of the act of the 26th of May, 1824, aild
the act in revival thereof, passed 24th May, 1828, was not to
divest the title of the plaintiff so as to exclude it from the operation of the revival act of the 9th of July, 1832, and that that act
must be regarded as a waiver of all penalties and forfeitures, if
any such were ever designed by the United States to attach to
-claims like the one in question. There were hundreds of thousands of acres of land claimed by no higher title than that of a
concession and mere order of survey; and yet there is no case
of forfeiture on record. Soulard Letter, State Papers, Miscellaneous, Vol. I. p. 405.
4th. That this case differs from Smith's case, reported in 10
Peters, 327; also from that of Mackay, as reported in Barry v.
Gamble,'3 Howard, 32; and still further from that of Les Bois
v. Bramell, 4 Howard, 456.
The claim of the plaintiff could not be defeated by any act
of legislation, without a disregard of the treaty of 1803, and a
direct denial of the equitable obligation imposed by the acts of
Congress already cited, and which obligation has been repeatedly recognized by the agents of the United States, who, having
assumed the trust existing between the government of Spain
and the party under whom the plaintiff claims, could not defeat
that trust by conditions imposed by them subsequent to the
transfer of said trust. Analogies from the law of England will
be cited to sustain this view, as also the opinion of this court
in the case of Percheman, 7 Peters, 90.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

329

Bissell v. Penrose.

5th. That the act of the 9th of July, 1832, embraced this claim;
its existence was thereby recognized, and the right to a confirmation of it clearly implied; that the confirmation by the Board
of Commissioners, on the 2d day of November, 1833, and which
was approved and made conclusive by the ac of the 4th of July,
1836, completes the title of the defendant in error; and that no
one claiming the land in question from the United States, by
virtue of any sale or grant made by them subsequent to the location and survey by Tillier in 1806, can hold said land asagainst the legal representatives of the Spanish grantee. Opinion of the court in the case of Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 Howard, 284, and the authorities, therein cited.
The title of the plaintiff in error cannot, we think, be shown
to be entitled to the serious consideration of this court,1st. Because the certificate and location in virtue of which
he claims conferred no right: the location was on lands, the
sale of which was not at the time authorized by law; and it
was therefore absolutely void. Opinions of Attorney-General,
Wirt, October 10, 1825; Opinions, &c., Vol. II. p. 25, reference
to letters of Secretary Crawford, June 10th, 1818; of Mr. Wirt,
October 22, 1828; and of Mr. Butler, Attorney-General, August
8th, 1838. Stoddard v. Chambers, and the authorities therein
cited, 2 Howard, 284.
2d. The location, having been on lands the sale of which
was not authorized by law, was not only void, but could not
be revived except by special act of legislation, the same as in
the case of a location of a New Madrid certificate upon lands
claimed by a predmptioner. Letter of Mr. Wirt, Attorney-General, to Secretary Crawfordp June 19th, 1820; also, letter from
same to same, under date of the 22d June, on the same subject; the Act of April 26, 1822; and also Act of 2d March,
1831.
There was no act of Congress subsequent to the 26th of
May, 1829, and before the 9th of July, 1832, giving the plaintiff in error the right to re-locate his certificate; and if there
had been, we should not be willing to admit that a location
thus made upon the land in question, although protected by a
patent, could prevail against the Spanish grant; out there being
no such location or patent, we contend that the New' Madrid
locator, notwithstanding the land in question should be regarded as public land during the interval mentioned, is in no better
condition in regard to said land than he was prior to said interval. His location was void in its inception; nothing less than
a special act of Congress could revive and make it available.
To contend, as we understand the plaintiff in error will, that,
28 *

330

SUPREME

COURT.

Bissell v. Penrose.
although the New Madrid certificate was originally located on
land at the time not authorized to be sold, yet it became public
land in the interval between the 26th of May, 1829, and the
9th of July, 1892, and was therefore subject to his claim, as it
were by relation back to 1818, when his claim was first located, - is, we think, an assumption not les§ unreasonable than it
would be to contend that location under a New Madrid certificate on mineral lands or school lands specially reserved from
sale at the time, but subsequently authorized to be sold, wouldbe held good, and entitle the party to a patent, even as against
the United States. It cannot be supposed that this court would
countenance such a doctrine as this; and yet it is not, as we
think, less worthy of their serious consideration, than the position assumed in this doctrine of relation so earnestly insisted
on by the plaintiff in error.
It will, we presume, be contended, that the confirmation, "according to the concession," shall be construed to mean a confirmation, not of 800 arpens to Benito Vasquez, &_his legal representatives, but a confirmation of 4,000 in common to all the
brothers. The proceedings from 1806 to 1833, by the Board
of Commissioners, and which are in evidence, show conclu-"
sively that such was not and could not have been the design of
the board who confirmed the claim; but the testimony of Conway, one of the board who confirmed said claim,, frees this
question from all doubt. His testimony explains what otherwise might admit of dispute. It shows that there was but one
plat before the board; they took proof as to that plat; they
were satisfied therewith. Its not being referred to in the tabular statement made out by the clerk of the board is -likewise
satisfactorily explained by the testimony of Conway, one of the
commissioners by whom this claim was confirmed. To show
the manner of proceeding in, this and like cases, we refer to
the cases of Gabriel Cerr6, 5 American State Papers, 821; St.
Gemme Beauvais, Ibid. 744; Raphael St. Gemme, and others,
Ibid. 745; Thomas Maddin, Ibid. 747; Joseph Morin, Ibid.
819; James Williams, Ibid. 820; Charles Fremon Delauriere
and Louis Labeaume, Ibid. 822; -James Richardson, Ibid. 823;
Pierre Detor, Ibid. 824; Louis Bissonet, Ibid. 828; Thomas
Caulk, Ibid. 831; Auguste Chateau, Ibid. 834.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court for the District
of Missouri. The case below was an action of ejectment by
the plaintiff, (the defendant here,) to recover against the defendant a moiety of a tract of land in the township of St.
Louis, and in which she obtained a verdict and judgment.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

" 331

Bissell v. Penrose.

The title of the plaintiff was derived from a confirmed Spanish concession, under the act of June 30, 1836 ; of the defendant, from a location of a New Madrid eertificate, under the act
of February 17, 1815. Both rest upon acts of Congress; and
the question is which has the elder or better title.
We shall, therefore, lay out of view, in proceeding to the examination the case, a class of cases referred to on the argument,
founded on these Spanish claims, which were prosecuted under
the act of May 26, 1824, and which underweht very elaborate
discussion, both at the bar, and by the court. United States v.
Arredondo et al., 6 Peters, 691 ; Soulara and others v. United
States, 4 ib. 511; Smith v. The same, 10 ib. 326; United
States v. Clarke, 8 ib. 436.
That act empowered the District Court, upon which original
jurisdiction was conferred, to hear and determine these claims
according to the stipulations of the treaty of 1803, the law of
nations, and the laws and ordinances of the Spanish government, and in conformity with the principles of justice.
The inquiry there was not into the legal title ; but into the
'equitable right under the treaty, with a view to a confirmation
of these imperfect grants, if entitled to confirmation according
to Spanish law, so that the grantee might be clothed with the
legal estate.
The inquiry was difficult and embarrassing, on account of
the scanty and imperfect materials within the reach of the
courts from which to collect Spanish laws and ordinances, as
they consisted of royal orders, orders of the local governors,
and also. of the usages and customs of the provinces, which
were not readily accessible to the profession or the courts in
this country.
The case before us depends upon the construction of our
own acts of Congress,' disembarrassed from any inquiries into
the origin of these grants, or into the rights and principles upon
which they were founded, or which made it the duty of the
government under the treaty to acknowledge them. Inquiries
of this kind were closed on the confirmation of the grant by the
act of 1836. The title then became complete. It. became an
American, not a Spanish title.
One of the principal questions arising under these acts of
Congress, and, indeed, in our judgment, every material question
presented here, was either directly or by necessary implication
involved in the decision of the case of Stoddard v. Chambers,
heretofore decided by this court and reported in 2-Howard, 284.
The plaintiff there claimed uider a Spanish concession, confirmed by.the act of 1836; the defendant, under a location by

332

SUPREME COURT.
Bissell v. Penrose-

virtue of a New Madrid certificate, in pursuance of the act of
1815. The defendant and those under whom he- claimed had
been in possession since 1819. The Spanish. concession was,
like the one before us, general and unlocated, except by a private survey in January, 1806.
The court decided that the plaintiff, deriving title under the
confirmed claim, held the better title,.on the ground, that in
1816, when the New Madrid certificate was located upon the
premises in question, the tract was reserved from sale or private
entry by virtue of the fenth section of the act of 1811, and being
thus regerved, the location was void ; and, further, that it was
not within the protection of the second section of the act of
1836, confirming Spanish. grants, as the locations there, referred
to were locations made in pursuance of some law of the United
States; that, in the case before the court, it was made against
law.
In the case before us, the Spanish concession was made to
the five sons of Benito Vasquez, for eight hundred arpens each,
to be laid off in one or two places of the vacant domain. The
grant was made February 16, 1800.
The eldest son (Benito) conveyed his interest in the concession to Rodolph Tillier, 11th February, 1806. The latter
located it, by procuring a private survey, the 27th of the same
month.
The time when the claim was filed in the recorder's office
at St. Louis, under the act of 1805, does not appear; but it
must have been before the 25th of August, 1806, as we find
the evidence of the claim presented to the Board of Commissioners on that day, including the grant, the survey, and other
proof going to establish it.
The tenth section of. the act of 1811 (2 Stat. at Large, 665)
provided, that, till after the decision of Congress thereon, no
tract of land shall be offered for sale, the claim to which has
been, in due time, and according to law, presented to the recorder of land titles in Louisiana, and filed in his office, for
the purpose of being investigated by the commissioners, &c.
The argument against the application of the clause to the
claim before us is, that the concession,to Vasquez, being general and unlocated, giving a right to the eight hundred
arpens in no particular part or parcel of land in the public
domain, but in any and every part, and the private survey
designating and locating the tract being a--ullity, and to be
disregarded, the premises in question were not, and could not
have been, reserved from sale by the filing of this vagrant
claim; and hence were open to location under the New Madrid certificate in 1816, at the date of the entry.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

333

Bissell v. Penrose.

Now, the Spanish concession to Mordecai Bell, in Stoddard
v. Chambers, under which the plaintiff derived title, was 6f
a similar character: the private survey, therefore, must have
been regarded as having designated and located the traet, so
far as to give effect and operation to the reservation of it from
sale.
It is only upon this ground that the case can be upheld.
Otherwise, the location of the New Madrid certificate was
made in pursuance of law, and the defendant in under it held
the better title. The tract was not covered by any claim,
within the contemplation of the act of 1811. To give effect
to it, the claim must designate the particular tract.
But if this question were an open one, and to be decided
the first time by the court, we should feel ourselves obliged
to reaffirm the same conclusion which we have supposed necessarily involved in the case already mentioned.
The act of 1805, sec. 4, (2 Stat. at Large, 326,) provided,
that a plat of the tracts claimed should accompany the written notice of the claim directed to be filed in the office of the
recorder.
The act of .20th February, 1806, (2 Stat. at Large, 352,) repealed this clause, and extended the powers of the SurveyorGeneral over the public lands in Louisiana, making it his duty
to appiift deputy surveyors, &c., and the commissioners were
authorized to direct such surveys of the claims presented, as
they might deem necessary for the purpose of their decision,
-the
survey tQ be at the expense -of the claimant..
The act also declared, that every such survey, as well as
every other survey, by whatever authority theretofore madeI
should be held and considered a private survey only; and that
all the tracts of land, the titles to which might.be ultimately
confirmed by Congress, should, prior to the issuing of the patents, be resurveyed, if judged necessary, under the authority
of the Surveyor-General, at the expense of the parties. Sec. 3.
The act of March 26, 1804, (2 Stat. at Large, 283,) forbade settlements on the public lands within the territory of Louisiana;
and also surveys, or any and every attempt to survey, or designate boundaries, by marking trees or otherwise, declaring, at
the same time, the act an offence punishable by fine or imprisonment. Sec. 14.
The act of 1805, as we have seen, required the claimant to
accompany the claim filed with a plat of the tract.
It is apparent, therefore, unless this act operated as a modification, by 4mplication, of the restriction in the act of 1804 in
respect to surveys, the benefits under it would be -limited to the

334

SUPREME

COURT.

Bissell v. Penrose.
single class of claimants, who had happened to procure surveys
of their tracts by a Spanish officer prior to the cession under
the treaty. Whether it had this effect, or not, is at this day a
matter of no particular importance: it is certain, that such was
the practical construction given to the act at the time; as we
find that numerous surveys of the tracts claimed were made
after the passage of the act of 1805, and before that of 1806
dispensing with the plat. This construction was, also, recognized by the government, and the surveys directed to be regarded by the commissioners in their proceedings, as affording
a sufficient designation of the tract claimed under the con-,
cession.
In the instructions of the Secretary of the Treasury to the
board, under date of March 25, 1806, one month after the passage of the' act, he observed, (speaking of the authority conferred on the board to order surveys,) that, as the authority was
discretionary, it was presumed they would exercise it only in
cases where it would be actually necessary, as it was not intended to vex the claimants with repeated surveys; and that,
where they were satisfied that those surveys which had been
executed before the receipt of his communication were sufficient to enable them to form a correct decision, they need not
order new ones; and the observation, he said, would apply,
whether the previous surveys had been executed under the authority of Soulard, or by any other person whatever. (Part 2,
Public Land Laws, p. 672.)
Nothing can be more direct and express than these instructions ; and the records of the proceedings of the several Boards
of Commissioners under the act of 1805, and the acts succeeding it down to that of July 9, 1832, show, that they uniformly
acted upon them. These private surveys constitute a part of
the evidence of the claim upon which their decision was
founded.
They were necessary to give description and locality to two
A grant
important classes of these Spanish concessions: -1.
or order of survey for a given number of arpens, conferring upon the grantee the right to locate it upon any part of the royal
domain, at his election; 2. A gLunt designating some natural
object only, such as the head or sources of a river, as the place
where the tract should be located. These two classes constituted no inconsiderable portion of the claims filed in the offices
of the register and recorder, and afterwards presented before
the commissioners. Among the incomplete grants, they probably constituted at least one half of the number. Of the first
fifty in the report of the 27th of November, 1833, twenty-eight

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

335

Bissell, v. Penrose.

are of this description; it is fair to presume the, same proportion exists throughout.
The effect claimed, upon the above view, for these private
surveys, was denied on the argument, on the authority of the
cases decided under the act of 1824, to which we have already
referred; but the distinction will be apparent on an examination of those cases, and a slight attention to the difference in
the two modes of proceeding upon these claims.
Under that act, it was held by the court, that, in order to enable the claimant to recover, the land must have been severed
from the general domain of the king of Spain prior to the cession of the territory by a grant which gives, either in its terms,
or by a reference to. some description, locality to the tract; or
if the grant was'vague, and gave only an authority to locate,
the location must have been made by the official surveyor; that a private survey could have no such effect as to sever the
tract from the public domain under either the Spanish or
American government; and that no government ever admitted
such effect to be given to private surveys of its warrants, or
orders of survey.
in the proceedings before. the Board of Commissioners, the
object of the private survey is not a severance of the tract from
the public domain; nor is this the effect of it: that is done by
the confirmation of the grant by the act of Congress, and not
before. The object is the selection of the tract by the claimant
that he is entitled to locate by virtue of his general grant, by
means whereof he is enabled to present his claim in full to the
board for their decision. A general grant or order of survey is
not simply a vagrant right to the given number of arpens in
some part of the public domain; but carries along with it the
right, and without which it is valueless, to have it located with
metes and bounds, that it may be occupied and enjoyed. In
the absence of this description and location, the claimant would
be disabled from presenting his full claim under the Spanish
concession for adjudication by the board. The act of 1806
providing for private surveys, and the instructions of the Secretary founded thereon; removed every embarrassment of the
kind, and were, doubtless, so intended at the time.
The acts of 1832 and of 1836 confirmthe above view. The
forhier organized a new Board of Commissioners, and made it
their duty to examine all unconfirmed claims t: land theretofore filed in the office of the recorder, according to law, founded
upon any incomplete grant, concession, warrant, or order of
survey; and also, that, in examining them, they should take
into consideration as weJll the testimony taken before the for-

SUPREME

COURT.

Bissell v. Penrose.

mer boards upon the claims, as such other testimony as might
be admissible under the rules adopted for talking testimony before the previous commissioners.
It should be recollected, that the reports of the previous commissioners upon these unconfirmed claims were before Congtess at the time of the passage of this act; and that those
reports contained the substance of the evidence in support of
each claim, including these private surveys; and with this
knowledge, it will be seen, they have made it the duty of the
board to take that testimony into their consideration in passing
upon them.
Congress have thus virtually recognized these private surveys as competent and proper evidence of the particular tract
of land claimed under the grant or concession, carrying out
thereby the construction previously given to the act of 1806,
and the instructions of the Secretary.
The board are directed to examine all the unconfirmed
claims remaining in the office of the rKecorder, founded upon these
incomplete grants, and orders of survey; and to examine them
upon the evidence already furnished by the claimants, and in
the possession of the government; and to show that the examinations were conducted in, conformity with these directions,
we need only turn to the reports of the board, at different
times, to the Commissioner of the Land Office, and which were
also laid before Congress. It will there be seen that these private surveys are invariably used as a part of the evidence, in
each case, where one has been made, for the purpose of giving
description and locality to the claim.
The concession before us is embraced in the report of the
27th of November, 1833; as No. 19. It contains the original
grant, the private survey of February 27, 1806, together with
the evidence of several witnesses produced by Tillier, the assignee and claimant; and among others a witness was called
to prove the handwriting of the Governor to the concession,
and of Mackay to the plat of the survey.
We have said that the act of 1836 also confirms this view
of the case.
The second section of that act provides, that if it shall be
found that any tract confirmed, or part thereof, had been previously located by any other person under any law of -the
United States, or had been surveyed and sold by the United
States, the confirmation shall confer no title to such lands in
opposition to rights acquired by such location and purchase;
but the individual whose claim is confirmed shall be permitted
to locate so much thereof as interferes with'such location or

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

337

Bissell v. Penrose.

purchase on iny unapjropriated land of the government within
the State.
It will be perceived that the right to re-locate by the Spanish
claimant is confined to the case of, an interfering location or
purchase of the whole or a part of the tract of land confirmed,
omitting altogether to make provision for the case of a confirmation of an unlocated concession or order of survey. If the
argument, therefore, is well founded, that these surveys are a
nullity, and incapable of giving descriotion and locality to the
claim, Congress have not yet provided for one half of them
under the act of 1836; and further legislation will be necessary
to carry into effect their clear intention, as declared in the act
of 1832. We cannot think they are chargeable with any such
omission or oversight, or that a proper interpretation of their
acts leads to such a conclusion; but the contrary.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the private survey by Mackay in 1806, of the 800 arpens grunted to Benito Yasquez by the
Spanish g(vernor, February 17, 1800, of which Tillier was the
assignee, and which was filed in the recorder's office under
the act of 1805, designated and located the grant so as to give
effect and operation to the act of 1811, reserving the premises
from sale, which reservation was continued down by subsequent acts to 1829.
It has been argued, that the act of 1836 confirms only the
Spanish concession in the abstract, without regard to the plat
of survey or claimant, if an assignee of the grant. The act
provides, -that the decisions in favor of land claimants made by
the recorder and the.commissioners, under the act of 1832 and
the supplemental act of 1833, as entered in'the traoscript of
decisions transmitted by the commissioners to the Comroissioner
of the Land Office, and by him laid before Congress, be, and the
same are hereby, confirmed.
Now, the transcript of these decisions embraced, as required
by the act of 1832, the date and quantit y of each claim, and the
evidence upon which each depended, together with the authority under whili it was granted. The claimant was the party
who had filed the claim in the office of the recorder, and had
prosecuted it before the Board of Commissioners. His name, of
course, appeared, - Rudolph Tillier in the case before us. He
represented the interest of one of the sons of Benito Vasquez, in
quantity eight hundred arpens. There were four other sons,
each of whom was entitled to the same quantity. Tillier procured the private survey of his share, and filed his separate
claim for that am6unt, together with the conveyance from the
original grantee, and, under these circumstances, it is insisted
VOL. VIII.
29

SUPREME COURT.
Bissell v. Penrose.

that, upon the true construction of the act, the confirmation
was in favor of the son, and not of the assignee.
It is certainly difficult to perceive what right or claim the
son had, either before the commissioners or Congress, to be
confirmed. Having parted with all his interest, he had neither
land, nor claim, nor was he a claimant; as that term is regarded
as applicable to those only in whose name the claim was filed
with the recorder, under the act of 1805. By that act, every
person claiming lands, &c., by virtue of any incomplete grant,
&c., shall deliver to the recorder a notice, &c., of the nature
and extent of his claim; and, also, the grant, order of survey,
deed, conveyance, or other written evidence of his claim, to be
recorded: providing at the same time, in the case of a complete
grant, that the claimant need only record the original grant,
together with the order of survey and plat; all other conveyances and deeds to be deposited with the recorder: thereby
making a distinction between the two cases, as it respects the
derivative title; and, in both, clearly contemplating that the
assignee might be a claimant.
This is the view taken of the question in the case of Strothei
v. Lucas, on each occasion when it was before this court. (6
Peters, 772; 12 ib. 458.) It was there held that the confirmation was to be deemed to be in favor of the person claiming it.
The construction has entered into the usage and practice of the
land office, as may be seen by the instru ions from thai office
and the opinion of the Attorney-General on the subject. (2
Land Laws, 747, 752, and 1043.)
As it respects the branch of the argument, that the confirmation was irrespective of the location of the tract by the private
survey of Mackay, we refer to the view we have already taken
of that question, without any further remark.
It has also been argued, that Tillier put on file in the recorder's office, at the time of giving notice of his claim, two plats
of the tract of land claimed, each embracing different parcels ;
and that the uncertainty as it respects the parcel claimed under
the concession takes the case out of thr reservation from sale
under the act of 1811.
The case shows that there were two plats protracted upon
the same sheet of paper on the files of the office, covering different parcels; and that the name of the claimant was written at
full length on the face of one of them; that but one was before
the commissioners, and that corresponding to the one on file
with his name upon it; that this one includes the premises in
question; the other does not.
When this second plat was protracted upon the same sheet

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

339

Bissell v. Penrose.

of paper, or how it came on the files of the office, or whether
Tillier was in any way connected with it, are matters unexplained at the trial, and left altogether to conjecture. The connection is but an inference from the fact, that it has been found
on the same piece of paper on which his was protracted; but,
as his was marked, and identified with his name, and that too
in connection with his claim to the tract, also on file, we do
not perceive that any one could be misled who might resort
to the office for the purpose of ascertaining the land thus intended to be appropriated; and as it respects the proceedings
before the commissioners, also on the files of the office, none
of the objections taken existed in point of fact.
It has been supposed that this case is distinguishable from
the case of Stoddard v. Chambers, on the ground that there
the concession was confirmed, in terms according to the survey. If the view we have taken of' these private surveys be
correct, the difference at once disappears. But with reference
more particularly to the objection, it is to be observed, that in
the report of the commissioners under date of 27th November,
1833, which included one hundred and forty-two claims, of
which the present case is one, the form of their decision as
expressed, in respect to these imperfect grants, is uniformly in
the words here used.
In the report of the board in 1835, in which the confirmation
of the claim in Stoddard v. Chambers is included, a change of
persons having taken place in the commission, a different and
more particular form of expression was adopted. They, usually,
confirmed according to the survey, or according to the possession, or a given number of arpens, as the case might be.
In cases where the report recommends the confirmation of
the claim according to the survey, the effect of the confirmation under the act of 1836 is, probably, to conclude the government; so that an error in the private survey cannot be corrected on a resurvey of the tract. When recommended in the
general form of the present case, any such error may be corrected, agreeably to the intention of Congress in declaring, as
they did, in the act of 1806, that these surveys shbuld .be regarded only as private surveys. This is the distinction made at
the land office, founded upon the opinion of the Attorney-General; and is, we think, the only one between the two cases.
It was also suggested, on the argument, that~the cases of
lackay v. Dillon, and'Les Bois v. Bramell, (4 how. 421, 449,)
contained principles in support of the defence in this case.
We have examined them attentively, and find nothing decided there in conflict with the views expressed in this case.

340

SUPREME

COURT.

Bissell v. Penrose.
In the former, the question was between a confirmed Spanish grant and the commons of the city of St. Louis, under
which the defendant 'held' and which had been, also, confirmed by the act of 1812. There had been a private survey
of the commons by Mackay in 1806, and in which he had
at the same time marked the boundaries of his own lot. His
claim was confirmed under the act of 1836; the claim to the
commons, as we have seen, in 1812; the latter, therefore-, holding the elder title.- But the confirmation of the commons
was very special, the act declaring that all the rights, titles,
and claims to town or village lots, out lots, common field lots,
and commons, in, adjoining, and belonging to the several towns
or villages, including St. Louis, which lots have been inhabited,
cultivated, or possessed prior to the 20th of December, 1803,
shall be, and the same are hereby, confirmed to the inhabitants
of the respective towns or villages, &c.; and making it the
duty of the principal deputy surveyor, as soon ag may be, to
survey and mark, where the same had not already been done
according to law, the out boundary lines of the several towns
and villages, so as to include the out lots, common field lots,
and commons thereto respectively belonging.
The act of 1831 (4 Stat. at Large, 435) has no bearing upon
the question of boundary.
The question- of boundary being left at large by the very
special terms of the act of confirmation, a great deal of evidence was given on the trial for the purpose of ascertaining
the limits of these- lots, out lots, common field lots, and commons in and adjoining the town. But the court, in submitting
the case to the jury, instructed them, virtually, that the boundary and extent of the commons were to be determined by
the private survey of Mackay in 1806; an error that was
obvious, whether we regard the terms of the act of confirma-tion, or the nature and effect of the survey; and for which the
new trial was granted.
There is nothing in the other case bearing upon the question
except that the second instruction given and approved favors
the views expressed in the case before us.
The case of Jourdan v. Barrett, 4 Howard, 169, was also referred to as bearing upon the question. The case involved the
right to back lands on the Mississippi River between front proprietors; and an attempt was made by the defendant to conclude the right by the effect of a private survey, which was
properly denied by the court. The case has no application to
the present one. No such effect is claimed for the survey, and
all that is contended for in respect to it is '3srived from acts of

-

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

341

Bissell v. Penrose.

Congress, and applies only to the class of cases in question.
The effect depends upon the construction of these acts.
Upon the whole, after the most careful consideration that we
have been able to bestow upon the case, the conclusions at
which we have arrived are,-1. That the private survey by Mackay, on the 27th of February, 1806, of the 800 arpens granted to Benito Vasquez, of
whom Tillier was the assignee, and which was filed in the recorder's office with his claim, under the act of the 2d March,
1805, designated and located the grant, so as to give effect
and operation to the act of 1811, reserving the premises in question from sale.
2. That the title was confirmed to Tillier, the assignee, as
claimant, under the act of 1836.
3. That the location of the New Madrid certificate in 1816,
under which the defendant holds, was inoperative and void, as
has already been decided in the case of Stoddard v. Chambers,
heretofore referred to.
It follows, therefore, that the plaintiff, deriving title under
Tillier, the confirmee, has an elder and better title, as was decided by the court below.
For these reasons, we are of opinion that the judgment of the
court should be affirmed.
Mr. Justice McLEAN dissented.
In my judgment, this case is not within the decision of the
case of Stoddard v. Chambers. In that case, the claim was confirmed "to the said Mordecai Bell or his legal representatives,
according to the survey." But in this case the claim was confirmed "according to the concession." Now, until a concession
is located, it can give no claim to any specific tract of land, and
consequently cannot come within the reservation of any of the
acts of Congress. And the main question in the case was,
whether there was such a survey or designation of this concession as to bring it within the above acts.
The first Board of Commissioners, who acted on this claim
in 1806 and in 1810, rejected it. As appears from their rec.ord, the concession only was before the board when they finally
acted upon the subject. But a new and more favorable board
was constituted in 1832, and it appears from their record, that,
on the 9th of October in that year, "the sons of Vasquez,
Benito, Antoine, Hypolite, Joseph, and Pierre Vasquez, claiming
800 arpens each under a concession dated 17th of February,
1800, was presented. Also a plat of survey dated 7th February, 1806, of 800 arpens." "Pascal Cerr6, being duly sworn,
29*

342

SUPREME COURT.
Bissell v. Penrose.

saith, that the signature to the concession'is in the handwriting of Delassus; that the signatures to the survey are in the
handwritings of Mackay and Antoine Soular.."
On the 2d of November, 1833, the board again met, and
their record states that "the sons of Vasquez, each claiming
800 arpens of land under a concession from Charles Dehault
Delassils"; and that "they can see no cause for entertaining
the idea that the said concession was not issued at the time' it
bears date, as intimated in the minutes of. the former commissioners." And they "are unanimously of opinion, that this
claim ought to be confirmed to the said Benito, Antoine, Hypolite, Joseph, and Pierre Yasquez, or their legal representatives,
according to the concession."
On the 11th of February, 1806, Benito conveyed to Rudolph
Tillier his "right, title, and interest, claim and pretension and
demand, in and to a certain tract of land not yet located or surveyed." And Tillier says, "I do hereby assign, transfer, sell,
and set over, unto Clement B. Penrose, all my right, title, interest, property, claim, and demand of, in, and to a certain concession purchased of Benito Vasquez and assigned to me on the
11th of February, 1806, and plat -of surrey made for me, and
dated 27th February, 1806, for value received." This assignment bears no date, but it was acknowledged the 31st of October, 1818.
Frederic R. Conway, a witness for plaintiff, testified that he
was one of the late Board of Commissioners that confirmed
this claim; that the said original survey of Mackay, given in
evidence by plaintiff, was the plat that Tillier claimed by, as
he understood it; and that no other survey was exhibited to
the commissioners, so far as he remembered, connected with
this claim; that the survey was not noted in the tabular statement contained in the proceedings of said board, which omission, he thought, was by the mistake of the clerk.
The following certificates of surveys were given in evidence,
one by the plaintiff and the other by the defendant : - "I do certify that the above plat represents 800 arpens of land, French
measure, situated in the district of St. Louis, Louisiana Territory, and surveyed by me at the request of the proprietor, who
claims the same by virtue of a Spanish grant. Given under
my hand at St. Louis, the 27th day of February, 1806. Signed,
James Mackay. Received for record, St. Louis, the 27th of
February, 1806. Signed, Antoine Soulard, Surveyor-General of
Louisiana."
The other certificate is in the same words. These plats and
certificates were recorded by the recorder of land titles on the

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

343

Bissell v. Penrose.

same page. It was proved that one of these surveys covered
the land in controversy, and that the other did not. The name
of Tillier was written on one of the plats, but by whom, at
what time, and under what circumstances, does not appear.
From the loose manner in which the recorder's office and the
papers connected with it seem to have been kept, and the
ready access to them by all parties, it would be a dangerous
principle of evidence, to consider the simple indorsement of a
name on a: plat as identifying the owner of the land. And especially where the surveyor nowhere states for, whom the survey was made.
The court instructed the jury, "that the land included in the
survey given in evidence, and which was made for Rudolph
Tillier, assignee of Benito Yasquez, on the 27th of February,
1806, by James Mackay, and which was officially resurveyed
in conformity to the act of Congress of the 4th of July, 1836,
and which resurvey is numbered 3,061, and was approved by
Joseph C. Brown on the 29th of March, 1842, was reserved
from location and sale at the time MeNight and Brady's location, under a New Madrid claim, was made, and therefore the
location under said claim is invalid, as against the title of said
Vasquez," &c.
Among the instructions prayed for by the defendant, which
the court refused to give, was the following :- 5. "If the jury
find from the evidence that Rudolph Tillier, under whom the
plaintiff in this case claims the land in question, filed his claim
with the recorder of land titles, and, as a part of the evidence
of his claim, filed two plats of the land claimed, one of which
plats would embrace the land now in the defendant's possession, and the other would not embrace that land. then there is
no reservation of the land in the defendant's possession from
sale, which would prevent the location of the landi.n question,
under the certificate in favor of John Bro6ks or his legal representatives."
The deposition of Conway, one of the commissioners who
confirmed this concession, was introduced to supply a defect in
the record. He states that the original survey of Mackay,
which Tillier claimed by, was before the commissioners, and
no other plat, so far as he can remember. Now if this evidence
was admissible, it was for the consideration of the jury. It was
intended to correct the record, and show that the survey was
acted upon by the commissioners, although no entry was made
of it by the clerk in the tabular statement. It may well be
doubted whether parol evidence was admissible for this purpose, especially after the lapse of some fourteen years. In a

S14

-SUPREME

COURT.

Bissell v. Penrose.

matter involving title to real estate, parol evidence cannot be
heard to correct the record which the commissioners were required to keep, of their pr6ceedings.
As the evidence was heard, and does notappear to have been
overruled or withdrawn from the jury, it was their province to
act upon it. But by the instruction given, there was nothing
left for the jury to decide. They were instructed that the
claim of the plaintiff was reserved from location and sale when
the New Madrid location was made, and consequently the lat-'
ter was void. This ruled the whole case.
If the statement of Conway were not admissible, there.was
no.evidence to show that any survey was before the commissioners at the time they confirmed the concession. And it is
certain that no entry was made upon their record to show a
sanction of any survey. It does appear that a survey of the
concession was before the commissioners who rejected the claim
in 1806. And it also appears that on the 9th of October, 1832,
" a plat of survey dated 7th February, 1806, of 800 arpens, was
before the new commissioners. But on the 2d of November,
1833,, when the concession was confirmed, no survey appears
to have been before them, and they refer to none.
If the two surveys made by Mackay of 800 arpens each, "for
the proprietor," were admitted to have been made at the instance of Tillier, it leaves the location of the concession uncertain. Both surveys were executed on the same day, and were
recorded on the same page. Under Tillier's right, he could
survey only 800 arpens; and if he surveyed two tracts each of
that quantity it was a fraud upon the public. Under the acts
of Congress no tract of land was reserved as a Spanish claim,
which 'was not surveyed or, so specifically designated as to
show with reasonable certainty its boundaries. There is nothing on the record -or in the parol proof to'show which. of the
plats, if either, was made at the instance of Tillier. Both surveys were made "'for the proprietor," and as they bear the same
date, it may be presumed they were made for the same person. But whether this be so or not, they present a state of
uncertainty which 'Is fatal to the Spanish claim. The mere
name of Tillier, on one of the plats, without explanation, is no
proof of its identity. An entry on the record to identify the
survey would have been sufficient. In the absence of such evidence, the survey made or approved by Joseph C. Brown in
1842 does not supply the. defect. He must have acted arbitrarily, or from circumstances which existed at the time he acted.
There was nothing to guide him as to the true survey at the
time the New Madrid location was -made. And that was the

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

345

Mills v. Stoddard et al.

period of time to which the facts must apply, and the reservation of the Spanish claim be shown to have been made. The
two surveys then existed and were on the record, and if neither
was specially designated as Tillier's claim, there was no location of it within the reservation act. He could not claim both
surveys, and as there was nothing on record to guide the New
Madrid claimant in his loqation, he cannot be chargeable with
notice.
Under these circumstances, I think the court erred in its instruction to the jury, that the Spanish claim was reserved from
sale, and that the New Madrid location was void. I think, for
this error, the judgment should be reversed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Missouri, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

ADAM L. MILLS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, 'V. SIMEON STODDARD,

A
CITIZEN OF INDIANA, CUIRTIS STODDARD AND DANIEL STODDARD,
CITIZENS OF OHIO, JOSEPH BUNNELL AND Lucy BUNNELL, HIS
WIFE, CITIZENS OF NEW YoRK, JoNAs FOSTER AND LAVINIA
FOSTER, HIS WIFE, CITIZENS OF OHIO, Lucy HOXIE, A CITIZEN
OF NEW YoRx, DANIEL MORGAN AND ARVA MORGAN, HIS WIFE,
CITIZENS OF NEW YORK, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

The decision of this -court in the case of Stoddard et al. v. Chambers (2 Howard,
285) refxamined and confirmed.
The original petition to the Spanish Governor of Louisiana, upon which the concession was made, stated that he "came over to this side of the Al. R. S. with the
consent of your predecessors." These letters stand for Majeste Rive Sad, and refer to the Mississippi River.
The survey of the concession in 1806 fixed its locality. it is true that the suryey
'was a private one, but it was adopted by the commissioners, who had authority to
direct such surveys as they deemed necessary.
The holder of a New Madrid certificate had a right to locate it only on public lands
the sale of which was authorized by law. But lands claimed under a Spanish
concession, where the claim had been filed according to the acts of Congress, were
reserved from sale when the entry under the New Madrid certificate was made,
viz. in 1816. Consequently, the entry was void.
The patent for the land covered by the New Madrid certificate was not issued until
after Congress had renewed this reservation, viz. in 1832. Therefore, neither the
entry nor patent can give a good title.
Had the patent been issued before Congress passed the act of 1832, the restlt would
have been different.

