470

SUPRE M E COURT.
Prentice et aL v. Zane's Administrator.

em District-of New York, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the -judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs, and damages at the rate of six per centum per annum.

GEORGE D. PRENTICE AND GEORGE W. WEISSINGER, COPARTNERS
DOING BUSINESS UNDER THE STYLE AND FIRm OF PRENTICE &
WEISSINGER, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. PLATOFF ZANE'S ADIINIS.
TRATOR.
Where, in a special verdict, the essential facts are not distinktly found by'the jury,
render a
court will de
notnovo.
to court
establish
them,
is sufficient
evidence
although there
judgment,
but remand
the cause
to the
below
for this
a venirefacias
Therefore, where a suit was brought by an indorsee upon
a promissory note, and the
secial verdict found that the original consideration of the note was fraudulent on
the part of the payee, but omitted to find whether the bolder had given a valuable
consideration for it or received it in the regular course of business, and "thecourt

that
this courtbeen
couldcompelled
not decide whether
for the defendant,
below gavewas
judgment
judgment
erroneous
and would
remand the.
But
the parties below
agreedortonot,
submit
the causehave
to the court, both ontothe
facts and
the law. This court must presume that the court below founded its judgment
upon
proof of the fact as to the manner in which the holder received it, and must
therefore

affirm the judgment of the court below.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the United States for the Western District of Virginia.
In 1836, Platoff Zane, a citizen of Yirginia, being in Pennsylvania, executbd the following promissory note s
d$ 5,437
. Philadelphia, November 28th, 1836. Five
years after date, I promise to pay to the order of James
.
Johnson, five thousand four hndred and thirty-seven
dollars,
defalcation,
value received.
Platof' Zane."
Onwithout
some day
afterwardsfor
(the
record did not show
when), this
note was indorsed in blank by Johnson, the payee, and delivered to John Stivers, who handed it over to Prentice & Weissinger, without putting his own name upon it.
On the 8.th of May, 1840, Prentice & Weissinger filed a bill
before
the Court
Honorable
George M. Bihb, judge of the Louisville
Chancery
in Kentucky,
against the above-naed John
Stivers and one John Thomas. The bill stated, that the complainants and Thomas were sureties for Stivers as principal in a
debt which Stivers owed to the Bank of Louisville, that the
complainants had paid the debt, and now required Thomas to
contribut e w half.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

471

Prentice et aL v.. Zane's Administrator.

On the 16th of June, 1840, Thomas answered, and also filed
a cross-bill. He alleged that Stivers had placed in the hands
of Prentice & Weissinger a large amount of securities, and required an exhibition thereof. Weissinger answered the crossbill, and gave in a list of these securities, amongst which was
Zane's note; to which was attached the remark, that they had
received notice that the note would be defended on the ground
of no consideration. The answer also offered to transfer all
the securities to Thomas for eighty per cent. of their amount,
averring a belief of their insufficiency to pay the debt.
Here these.proceedings in chancery stopped.On the 7th of November, 1845, Prentice & Weissinger, citizens
of Louisville, Kentucky, brought an action of debt against Zane,
in the District Court of the United States for the Western District of Virginia, upon the above-mentioned promissory note.
The defendant pleaded nil debet, and the case went to a
jury, who found a special verdict. Before reciting this, it may
be mentioned that the deposition of Jacob Anthony, therein referred to, proved that the note in question was passed by Stivers to Prentice & Weissingdr, to indemnify them for money
paid by them, as his indorsers, in bank.
The jury say, that they find that the note in these words $ 5 , 4 3 7 v-j.

Philadelphia, November 28th, 1836. Five years

after date, I promise to pay to the order of James H. Johnson,
dollars, withfive thousand four hundred and thirty-seven '
out defalcation, for value received. Platoff Zane" -was made
by the defendant, and delivered to the payee, at the date
thereof, at Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania, and that
said note was indorsed by the payee, and delivered by him, so
indorsed, to one John Stivers, at the city of Louisville, in the
State of Kentucky, before the maturity thereof; that there has
not been any evidence submitted to us that said Stivers paid
value therefor, or that there was any consideration for such indorsement, unless the same ought to be inferred from the matters herein stated; but should the court be of opinion that,
from the facts and evidence herein found, the jury ought to
presume that said indorsement to said Stivers was made for a
valuable consideration, then we find that the same was made
for full value received by the payee from said Stivers therefor;
otherwise we find that the same was made without any consideration or value therefor. And we further find, that said
Stivers afterwards, but before the said note became payable,
delivered the same (indorsed in blank by the payee as aforesaid, but not indorsed bythe said Stivers) to the plaintiffs, at
the city of Louisville aforesaid, for the purposes and upon the

472,

.SUPREME COURT.
Prentice et al. v. Zane's Administrator.

consideration shown in the deposition of Jacob Anthony, and
the record of a bill, answer, and cross-bill and answers; which
deposition and record are in the words and figures following, to
wit: (The deposition and record were then set forth in extenso,
and
special verdict proceeded thus:)
IWethefurther
find, that the consideration of said note was
fraudulent on the part of the payee, and such that the payee
could not recover against the maker upon said note.
But we further find, that the plaintiffs had no notice of the
fraudulent consideration of said note at or before the time the
same was delivered to them as aforesaid.
And we find that the defendant, since the institution of
this suit, has duly served the plaintiffs with a notice in the
following words, to wit : "An action of debt, in the District Court of the United States
for the Western District of Virginia, between
"PRNTIC & WEISSINGER, Plaintiffs,
and
PLATOFF ZANE, Defendant.
"The defendant in this suit will offer evidence to show, and
will insist at the trial, that the note described in the declaration
was obtained from him, said defendant, by the payee thereof,
by means of misrepresentation and fraud, and without any
value having been received therefor by said defendant, and will
require the plaintiffs to prove at the trial the consideration, if
any, paid by them, or the previous holder or holders thereof,
for the same, and the time and manner in which they became
possessed of said note. Very respectfully, &c.,
"PLATOFF

ZANE,

By JACOB & LAMB, his Attorneys.
"To MEssRs. PRENTICE & WEISSINGER."
"Due service of above admitted.
"M. C. GOOD, Attorney for Plaintiffs."

We further find the statute of Pennsylvania in force within
that State at the time of the execution of said note, and the
indorsement thereof and delivery of the same to the plaintiffs
as aforesaid, in these words: "Act of 27th February, 1797. -4 Dallas, 102; 3 Smith, 278,
"An Act to devise a particular Form of Promissory Notes not
liable to any Plea of Defalcation or Set-off.
"6. SEc. 1. All notes in writing, commonly called promissory notes, bearing date in the city or county of Philadelphia,

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

473

Prentice et al. v. Zanes Administrator.

i

whereby any person or persons, bodies politic or corporate, or
copartnership in trade, shall promise to pay, or cause to be paid,
to any other person or persons, bodies politic or corporate, or
copartnership in trade, and to the order of the payee for value
in account, or for value received, and in the body of which
the words ' without defalcation,' or I without set-off,' shall be inserted, shall be held by the indorsees discharged from any
claim of defalcation or set-off by the drawers or indorsers
thereof; and the indorsees shall be entitled to recover against
the drawer and indorsers such sums as, on the face of the said
notes, or by indorsements thpreon, shall appear to be due: Provided always, that in every action brought by the holder of
any such note, whether against the drawer or indorsers, the
defendant may set off and defalk so far as the plaintiffs shall be
justly indebted to him in account by bonds, specially, or otherwise."
(See 8 Serg. & Rawle, 481, and posted notes.)
"A copy from a copy fildd in my office.
"Teste:
ALEXANDER T. LAIDVEY, Clerk."
And if the law be for the plaintiffs, then we find for them
the sum of $ 5,437.50, the debt in the declaration mentioned,
with interest thereon at the rate of six per cent. per annum
from the 1st day of December, 1841, till paid. But if the lav
be for the defendant, then we find for the defendant.
T. W. HAxuuso.

Arid because the court will consider of what judgment should
be rendered upon the verdict aforesaid, time is taken until tomorrow.
Memorandum. Upon the trial of this cause, the parties, by
their attorneys, filed a written agreement in the words following, to wit: - "And the parties agree thaf-the court, in deciding
upon the foregoing verdict, shall look to and regard the decisions of the courts of the State of Pennsylvania, as found in the
several printed volumes of the reports thereof, to avail as much
as if the same were found by said verdict, and to have such
weight as in the judgment of the court they ought to have;
and the parties further agree to waive all objections to said
verdict on account of its finding in part evidence, and not fact.
And that the court, in deciding thereupon, may make all just
inferences and conclusions of fact and lbw from the evidence and
facts therein stated, and the decisions aforesaid, which, in the
opinion of the court, a jury ought to draw therefrom, if the same
were submitted to them upon the trial of this cause; and that
40 *

474

SUPREME COURT.
Prentice et aL v. Zane's Adminiftrator.

thig agreement is to be made part of the record in this
suit.
"M. C. GooD, Attorney for Plaintiffs..
JicoB & L&Aw, Attorneys for Defendant."
Which agreement is ordered to. be made a part of the record
in this suit.
On the 9th of September, 1846, the District Court pro-nounced the following judgment, viz' -" The matters of law
-arising upon the special verdict in the cause being argued at a
former term of this court, and the court having maturely considered thereof, it seems that the law is for the defendant."
A wxit of error brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Badger and Mr. Bibb, for the plaintiffs, and Mr. Ewing, for the defendant.
.The points raised by Mr. Bibb, for the plaintiffs in error
were the following.
The legal right of the plaintiffs to have judgment for the
sum expressed in the note stands, - 1st, upon the effect of the
act 6f 1797, as declared in the title, body, soul, and spirit of
the act itself; 2dly, upon principles well established by adjudged cases, which confirm and fortify their right.
I. The true meaning and effect of that act, to be collected
from the expressions of the act itself, stand in the foreground.
It may be useful, and will be according to the usages of the
sages of the law in expounding statutes, to look into the old
law, the inconveniences and grievances arising under it, thereby the better to understand the remedy intended by the new
law, so that the mischiefs may be suppressed, and the remedy
advanced.
The Legislature of Pennsylvania, on the 28th May, 1715,
passed "An act for the assigning of bonds, specialties, and
promissory'notes." (1 State Laws, p. 77.) The inconveniences growing out' of the provisions of that act, in the remedies
allowed to assignees, will be sufficiently understood, for all the
present purposes, by looking into the decisions of the courts in
these cases, viz.: -Wheeler, Assignee, v. Hughes, in 1776 (1
Dallas, 23); M'Cullough, Assignee, v. Houston, in 1789 (1
Dallas, 441); Stillev. Lynch, in 1792 (2 Dallas, 194).
By these decisions it appears that the statute of 3 and 4 Anne,
chap. 9, respecting assignments, was not considered as in force,
ex proprio vigore, in..Pennsylvania; and that the act of Pennsylvania of 1715 differed materially from the statute of Anne,
especially in omitting to allow promissory notes to be negotiated and assigned in like manner as bills of exchange.

JANUARY TERMA

1850.

415

Prentice et aL v. Zane's Administrator.

The assignee took the assignment of a bond, specialty, or
promissory not6, under the act of 1715, at his peril, and stood in
the place of the payee, "so as to let in every defalcation which
the obligor had against the payee at the time of the assignment, or notice of the assignment." " The only intent of the
act being to enable the assignee to sue in his own name, and
prevent the obligee from releasing after assignment," (1 Dall.
28,) "subject to all equitable considerations to which the same
was subject in the hands of the original payee." (1 Dallas, 444.)
In Stile v. Lynch, 2 Dallas, 194, the maker of a promissory note was permitted, in an action by the indorsee, to set up
in defence, that the note was without any consideration. This
trial was had at the September term of.that court, in the year
1792.
On the 30th of March, 1793, the Legislature of Pennsylvania passed an act, (3 Dallas's State Laws, p. 329,) by which
promissory notes discounted at the Bank of Pennsylvania were
placed upon the footing of foreign bills of exchange, except as
to damages. Whereby such discounted notes became discharged, in the hands of the indorsee, from any plea of defalcation. or set-off on account of the transactions between the
original parties. But similar notes, not discounted at bank,
were in the hands of indorsees, under the act of 1715, subject
to all equities existing between the original parties at the
time. of the assignment, or notice of the assignment." Such peculiar lights, privileges, and immunities, enjoyed by
the President, Directors, and Company of the Bank of Pennsylvania, having their office of discount and deposit in the city of
Philadelphia, but not accorded to others dealing in like promissory notes, and doing business in the vicinage of the bank
and within the sphere of its influence, were inconveniences and
grievances. Such differences and privileged anomalies, grow-ing out of the positive acts of legislation by the State of Pennsylvania, called for some remedy.
Such were the old laws and their effects, when the act of
1797 was passed, "to devise a particular form of promissory
notes, not subject to any plea of defalcation or set-off. This
act, in its title and body, manifests the intent of the Legislature
to enable the community to make for themselves promissory
notes, which should be thereafter creditable, merchantable, negotiable, indorsible, and circulated according to the general
principles add usages of the mercantile law, not subject, in
the hands of indorsees, bond fide and for value, to any defalcation or set-off, not warranted by the established principles of
the law merchant.

_476 -

SUPREME COURT.
Prentice et al. v. Zane's Administrator.

The form devised contains, to the full, the terms to impart
-the characteristics and qualities of negotiable mercantile pa,per, expressed simply and aptly, in words well known to the
-law- merchant, and intelligible to a common understanding.
The: notes are to bear date in the city or county of Philadel-phia, to promise to pay money, to express the sum to be payable "to order," to express "for value received," and to be
_payable "without defalcation." Such notes, the act declares,
"shall'be held by the indorsees discharged from any claim of
defalcation or set-off by the drawers or indorsers thereof."
W That no ambiguity might exist as to what was meant by
" defalcation," that not a loop might remain whereon to hang
a: doubt 'to be solved by construction, the act has superadded,
-"And
the indorsees shall be entitled to recover against the
drawer and indorsers such sum as on the face of the said notes,
,or by indorsements thereon, shall appear to be due."
The explanation proceeds, -"Provided,
always, that in
every action by the holder of any such note, whether against
the drawer or indorsers, the defendant may set-off and defalk,
s5)far -as the plaintiffs shall be indebted justly to him in account by bonds, specialty, or otherwise."
The proviso subjects every holder for his own acts, and no
further. The first position and body to which the proviso is
appended discharges the indorsee from any difficulty arising
out of matters inter alios acta, not disclosed by the instrument
itself, -not made known to the indorsee before he made a fair
acquest of the note for value.
I.-Upon the authority of adjudged cases, the right of the
plaintiffs is confirmed and fortified against the defence set up.
(The counsel then referred to the following English anthorities:-2 Burr. 276; Bla. Coin., book 2, chap. 30, p. 470;
4 Term Rep. 148. Pennsylvani. authorities; -4 Dallas, 370;
5 Binney, 469; 1 Serg.&-Rdw'e',180'; 9 Serg. & Rawle, 193.
And a number-vof"English cases, to show that the "general
mercantile law" was in harmony with these decisions.)
In Lickbarrow v. Mason, 2 Term Rep. 71, Justice Ashurst
stated the law to be, -" As between the drawer and payee,
the consideration may be gone into; yet it cannot be between
drawer and an indorsee; and the reason is, it would be enabling either of the original parties to assist in a fraud."
This same distinction between a defence impeaching the
consideration, in actions between the original parties, in which
case it is admissible, and actions by indorsees and in which
case such defence cannot be admitted, was adjudged in these
cases: -Snelling v. Briggs, and Collett v. Griffith, Bull' N. P.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

477

Prentice et al. v. Zane's Administrator.

274; Puget De Bras v. Forbes & Gregory, I Esp. N. P. Cases,
119; United States v. Bank of the Metropolis, 15 Peters, 393;
1
Swift v. Tyson, 16 Peters, 15, 22.
In the case of Swift v. Tyson, the defendant attempted to
defend against the indorsee by showing that the consideration
held out to the maker was, on the part of the payee, totally
false and fraudulent. But the Supreme Court of the United
States decided, that "a bond fide holder of a negotiable iristrument for valuable consideration, without any notice of the
facts which impeach its validity as between the antecedent parties, if he takes it under- an indorsement imade before it becomes payable, holds the title unaffected by those facts, and
may recover thereon, although, as between the antecedent
parties, the transaction may be without any legal validity.
This is a doctrine so long and so well established, and so essential to the security of negotiable paper, that it is laid up among
the fundamentals of the law, and requires no authority or reasoning now to be brought forward in its support.
"As little doubt is there, that the holder of any negotiable
paper, before it is due, is not bound to prove that he is a bond
fide holder for a valuable consideration without notice; for the
law will presume that, in the absence of all rebutting proofs;
and therefore it is incumbent on the defendant to establish his
defence by proofs, to overcome the primd facie title of the
plaintiffs."
In the case of the United States v. Bank of the Metropolis,
the Supreme Court of the United States said, - " The rule is,
that a want of consideration between drawer and acceptor
is no defence against the right of a third party who has given
a consideration for the bill,, and this even though the acceptor
has been defrauded by the drawee, if that be not known by
the third party before he gives value for it." (15 Peters, 393.)
The special verdict finds that Stivers (who received the bill
from the payee indorsed in blank) did not indorse it, but delivered it to the plaintiffs. The want of Stivers's indorsement
is no objection to the title of the plaintiffs. They had a right
to fill up the blank indorsement by an assignment to themselves, as they did. (A number of cases cited. 11 Peters,
81, &c.)
The parties, by agreement of record, waive all objections to
the verdict for "finding in part evidence, and not fact," and
agree that the court "may make all just inferences and conclusions of fact and law from the evidence and facts therein.
stated, which a jury ought to draw therefrom."
Upon the deposition of Anthony, and the bill, answer, cross-

478

SUIPREME

COURT.

Prentice et al. v. Zanes Administrator.

bill, and answers, between Prentice & Weissinger, as original
complainants, and John Thomas, to compel him to contribute
for the debt for which the parties were bound as co-seeurities
for Stivers as principal, and paid by Prentice & Weissinger;
and the cross-bill by Thomas v. Prentice & Weissinger, to account for the notes by them received of Sti~ers, and the answer of Prentice & Weissinger to the cross-bill; it appears that
Prentice & Weissinger had paid as indorsers and securities for
Stivers upwards of twelve thousands dollars, and that this note
and others were delivered over to Prentice & Weissinger in
consideration of the moneys so previously paid by them for
Stivers, and as indemnities; from which, however, they are
not likely to be saved from loss by all the securities which Stivers gave them.
.
It is clear from the transcript of the record of the suit in
chancery, and the deposition of Anthony, as found by the
special verdict, that the note upon P. Zane was delivered by
" Stivers to the plaintiffs, in consideration of a precedent debt,
- greatly exceeding the sum due by this promissory note.
The question is, whether the possession so obtained by the
plaintiffs of this negotiable note, in consideration of a precedent
-debt, entitles them to protection as indorsees against the defence §et up by the maker, on account of the transactions between them and the payee?
This question was fully argued and decided by this court in
the case of Swift v. Tyson, 16 Peters, 2, 16, 0, 21, 22. It
was thereupon resolved by the court, that a preexisting debt
constitutes a valuable consideration in the sense of the general
rule applicable to negotiable instruments. The question was
examined upon principle, and upon the adjudged cases, English
and "American; and the ccnclusiori is, "that a bond fide holder
taking a negotiable note in payment of, or as security for, a preexisting debt, is a holder for a valuable consideration, entitled to
protection against all equities between the antecedent parties."
To sustain that doctrine many cases are cited by. the court
previously decided in the Supreme Court of the United
States, and in England, and the opinion in that case says of
them: -"
They go farther, and establish, that a transfer as
security for past, and even for future responsibilities,will, for
this purpose, be a sufficient, valid, and valuable consideration."
(16 Peters, 21.)
This decision, and the authorities therein cited by the court,
are full and conclusive. Nothing can be, or need be, added on
this point by the counsel for the plaintiffs.
The special verdict submits to the court the question wheth-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

479

Prentice et al. v. ZAne's Administrator.

er, in the absence of all positive proof upon the subject of the
consideration between Johnson and Stivers for the note, it is to
be presumed that Stivers gave value for it.
The presumption is so until repelled by proof to the contrary; as stated in Swift v. Tyson, 16 Peters, 16. But the question is immaterial whether or not Stivers paid value to Johnson, seeing that the plaintiffs are holders bond fide, for value, and
-without notice, and obtained the note regularly in the direct
line of negotiation.
In Haley v. Lane, 2 Atk. 182, Lord Hardwicke determined,
that, "1where there is a negotiable note, and it comes into the
hands of a third or a fourth indorsee, though sone of the
former indorsers might not pay a valuable consideration for it,
yet it is a good note to him, unless there should be some fraud,
or equity appearing against him in the case."
In the cases of Grant v. Vaughan, 3 Burr. 1516; Anonymous, 1 Salk. 126, plea 5; Miller v. Race, 1 Burr. 452; and
Peacock v. Rhodes, 2 Douglas, 632; the negotiable papers
passed through the hands of mere finders and thieves into the
possession of bond fide holders for valuable consideration without notice, yet such valueless and vicious derivatives did not
impair the rights and titles of such bond fide possessors.
The special verdict finds that this note was made and delivered in Philadelphia, and indorsed and delivered in Louisville
by the payee to Stivers, and by Stivers delivered to the plaintiffs in Louisville. So this note was made and delivered in one
State, negotiated in another, and sued upon in a third.
The note so made in Pennsylvania, having no reference by
its terms to performance in any other State, must be adjudged
by the laws of that State, and was there a good and valid contract. By the law of that State, it was a mercantile negotiable
instrument. " The act of the Legislature found by the jury and
the decisions of the Supreme Court of that State, before cited,
(5 Binn. 469; 1 Serg. & Rawle, 180, and 9 Serg. & Rawle,
193,) show that this note and all such like are, by the law of
that State, negotiable according to the principles of the "1general mercantile law'; that such notes are "in the situation of
bills of exchange"; that the act of 1797, relating to such
promissory notes, was passed "for the purpose of making them
subject to the rules of general mercantile law." The supreme
judicial tribunal of that State has so expounded the statute,
and settled its meaning and effect.
The points were thus stated by Mr. Badger, upon the same
side.

480

SUPREME COURT.
Prentice et al. v. Zane's Administrator.

It will be also insisted for the plaintiff, that,
1st. Eviry holder of a bill or note is presumed to be a bond
fide holder for value, until something isshown to repel the presumption. Story on Prom. Notes, p. 220, § 196; Ib.on Bills
of Exch., p. 492, §415.
2d. Every person in possession of a bill or note, indorsed in
blank, and appearing to be the lawful holder thereof, can by
delivery convey a good title thereto to any one believing him
to be such owner, so as to convey a right of action against the
maker or acceptor, notwithstafiding the want of consideration,
or any other matter of defence, as between the previous parties
to the bill or note. Arbouin v. Anderson, 1 Adolph. & Ellis,
N. S. 498; Story on Bills, § 415.
3d. To repel the presumption that the holder came by the
bill or note honestly, fraud, felony, or some such matter, must
be proved, and a holder for value is not affected by any infirmity in the bill or note, or in the previous negotiations thereof,
unless malafides is brought home to him. Knight v. Pugh, 4
Watts & Serg. 445; Goodman v. Harvey, 4 Adolph. & Ellis,
870; Arbouin v. Anderson, above cited; Story on Bills,
§§ 415, 416.
And.as a consequence from these positions, it will be insisted
that-the plaintiff in error is entitled to recover.
And.even upon the doctrine once held, that gross negligence
or even. ground of suspicion is sufficient to affect the holder,
(Story on Prom. Notes, § 197; Story on Bills, § 416; Goodman v. Harvey, above cited,) the plaintiff in error ishere en,titled to recover, there being. in this case neither such negligence nor ground of suspicion.
iir. Ewing, for defendant in error.
1st. This suit was brought'in Virginia, on a promissory note,
by the assignee, against the maker. It is not averred in the declaratfon that the note was made in any other State or community, or that it is affected by any law or usage other than the
laws and usages-of Virginia. There being no such averment,
there can be no such proof or fact fouzid legally in the case, for
it makes a diferent contract, governed by different legal principles. - The case, therefore, stands as it is set out in the declaration.- A suit upon a note made in Virginia, and controlled by
the laws and usages of Virginia. By these, a promissory note is
not a commercial instrument, and the fraud of the payee in obtaining the note may be set up against the indorser.
The special verdict finds that the note was obtained by fraud.
This is enough to sustain the judgment of the court below.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

481

Prentice et aL v. Zane's Administrator.

But if the declaration be out of the question, and the caserest
upon the special verdict, .irrespective of the pleadings, then the
note is commercial paper, and the. special verdict finds that it
was fraudulently obtained.
The plaintiffs are indorsees; but pending the case in the
courts below, they had due notice that the note was obtained
by fraud, and that they -would be called upon on the trial to
prove the'consideration paid for the note.
Commercial paper which is obtained by fraud is subject to
the same defence in the-hands of the assignee as in those of
the payee, unless he show that it was transferred to him for a
valuable consideration, in the due course of trade., Holme v.
Karpser, 5 Bin. 469; Morton v. Rogers, 14 Wdnd. 580; 2
Barn. & Adolph. 291; 4 Taunton, 114; Chitty on Bills, 69,
and cases cited in notes.
The verdict does not find that the plaintiffs gave any consideration for the note, or received it in any fair transaction, except
as the same may be deduced from evidence to which it refers.
This evidence must be treated as a nullity, were it not for the
agreement of counsel, that the court, in deciding the case, may
make all just inferences and conclusions of fact and law from
the evidence. Conclusions of fact, deduced by the court from
the evidence, cannot be a subject of reversal. This court deals
with errors in law.
The jury, therefore, not having found any consideration for
the assignment of the note, the judgment cannot be reversed
because the court below did not infer a consideration from evidence which, by agreement of counsel, it was to pass upon.
The record does not show whether the court inferred any consideration for the transfer or not. This court cannot assume
that they did infer any. The jury did not find any. So that
the facts found leave a clear case of a note obtained by fraud,
and transferred without consideration. The evidence referred
to cannot change it here, as this court has nothing to do -with
evidence.
The counsel for the plaintiffs contend that this must be considered as an agreed case, not as a special verdict. This does
not help the matter in the least. If it be an agreed case, it is
agreed in it that, so far as the jury find facts, the court shall
pronounce the law upon them. So far as they find evidence,
the court shall infer from it the facts, and pronounce the law
upon the facts so inferred. It is pro tanto a submission to the
court upon the evidence.
But if this court look to and pass upon the evidence, which
was by consent submitted to the court below, then the case
41
voL. vIII.

482

SUPREME COURT.
Prentice et aL v. Zane's Administrator.

made out is that of a note obtained by fraud, iransferred to the
plaintiff as security for a preexisting debt, no. consideration
being paid for the note, no debt extinguished by its transfer.
We admit and contend that the liability of the maker of this
note is.governed by the laws of Pennsylvania; and if by the
statutes, as expounded by the courts of that State, he is allowed to set 'up the defence here set-up, he is entitled to do so,
notwithstanding it has been indorsed in another State. Story's
Conf. of Laws, %'$317, 332, 333, 345; Story on Bills, % 158,
161, 163, 164, 167,.168, 169; Judiciary Act, 1789.; Shelby v.
Guy, 11 Wheat. 361; Green v.- Neal, 6 Pet. 291; Elmendorf
v.Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152; 12 Pet. 89.
According to the law of Pennsylvania, the defence of fraud
in the consideration of this note may be set up against an. indorsee who has received it merely as collateral security for a
pre6xisting debt. Petrie v. Clark, 11 Serg. &. Rawle, 377;
Walker v. Geisse, 4 Whart. 257, 258; Depeau v. Waddington,
6 Wharton, 232; Jackson v. Polack, 2 Miles; 362; 4nd see 4
Wharton, 500; and Evans v. - Smith, 4 Binney, 366; Cromwell v. Arrot, 1 Serg. & Rawle,. 180.
In Virginia there has been no decision of the question, as one
of general commercial law affecting negotiable paper; but see
2 Rand. 260; 2 Leigh, 503; and. Prentice & Weissinger v.
Zane, 2 Grat. 262.
In Kentucky notes are not negotiable unless negotiated by
a bank.. (IMarsh. 540; 3 ib. 162.) No decision of the courts
of that State has been found upon the question whether the indorsee of negotiable- paper, in a case like this, holds it discharged of all equities between the original parties. At all
events, it has been-shown that the local law of that State
would not affect the-liability of this defendant.
In New York negotiable paper is on the same footing as in
Pennsylvania, when received as collateral security for an existing debt. Bay v. Coddington, 5 Johns. Ch. 56; and the
same case, in error, 20 Johns. 643; 9 Wend. 170; 6 Hill, 93;
24 Wend. 230.
In New Hampshire, see 10 N. Hamp. 266; 11 ib. 66. In
Alabama, 4 Ala. Rep. In Tennessee, 10 Serg. 428, 434.
In England the most of the cases have been those of bankers, who probably make advances to their customers upon an
understanding, in all cases, that they shall be covered by bills;
or advances are made on the credit of the bills. See 1 Stark.
R. 1 ; 8 Ves. 531 ; 4 Bing. 396; , IBing. N. C.469 ; 16 E. C.
L. Rep. 256 ; 17 ib. 356 ; Yallace v. Siddell, Chitty on Bills,
87, 88 (10th Am. ed.). De la Chaumette v. Bank of England,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

483

Rrentice et al. v. Zane's Adminigtrator..

.9 Barn. & Cres. 209 (17 E. C. L. R. 356), seems to sustain
the doctrine for which we contend.
Numerous cases, in this court and elsewhere, which seem,
perhaps, to affect the present question, really turn upon the circumstance, that the bill or note has been received in payment of
the preexisting debt, and not as collateral security ; or that advances have been made, or some other consideration given, at
the time of taking the note; as Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1;
2 ib. 170; 2 Wheat. 66; Brush v. Scribner, 11 Conn. 388; 12
Pick. 99; 22 ib. 24; 11 Ohio, 172; &c; Even in Pennsylvania, (4 Whart. 258,) and now in New York, (21 Wend. 499;
23 ib. 311; 24 ib. 115; 1 Hill, 513-; 2 ib. 140,) it is held,
that, if the indorsee receive a bill in payment or discharge of a
preexisting debt, he holds it exempt from all equitable defences;
but not if he has taken it merely as collateral security for such
a debt. See Munn v. M'Donald, 10 Watts, 270.
The opinion of Story, J., in Swift v..Tyson, on this point; is
obiter, and is not sustained by the authorities in England or
America.
It is directly opposed to the Pennsylvania cases,
which, as expositions of a statute of that State, or of the commercial law prevailing there, must be conclusive.
The protection given to indorsees of negotiable paper is analogous to, and perhaps derived from, the doctrine of courts of
equity, in cases where a purchaser has obtained the legal title
without notice of equitable right. In such cases, if the legal
title has been transferred as a mere security for a preexisting
debt, it cannot be retained against a prior equitable owner. 6
Hill, (N. Y.) 96 ; 22 Pick. 243 ; 4 Paige, 221 ; 6 ib. 648, 466;
4 Whart. 506.
It is just that the defence here slould.be sustained ; because
the defendant received nothing, the plaintiffs really paid nothing for the note, and therefore it is iniquitous to require the defendant to pay the plaintiff some nine or ten thousand dollars, merely because he signed, and they hold, the paper.
The general commercial law does not exclude the defence.
The law of Virginia, where the suit was brought, or (so far as
we know) of Kentucky, where the plaintiffs took the note;.
does not exclude it. In neither of those States is the note negotiable by their own law. (2 Leigh, 198; 6 Munf. 316 ; 1
Call, 226, 497; 2 Wa. 219.) Therefore the plaintiffs are driven to rely on the statute of Pennsylvania; and that, as expdunded by the courts of that State, does not sustain them.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error were plaintiffs below. They declared

484

SUPREME COURT.
Prentice et al. v. Zanes Addministrator.

on a promissory note given by defendant to James H. Johnson,
.or order, for the sum of $ 5,437.59, payable five years after date.
The note was indorsed" by the payee and delivered to John Stivbrs, who delivered it to the plaintiffs. The defendant pleaded
non assumpsit, and a jury being called, found a special verdict,
setting forth the note, and finding that it was made by the defendant and delivered by him to the payee, but that "the consideration was fraudulent on the part of the payee"; that the
note was indorsed by the payee to John Stivers before its maturity, "and that there has not been any evidence submitted to
the jury that said Stivers paid value therefor, or that there was
any consideration for such indorsement, unless the same ought
to be inferred from the matters herein stated," &c. They also
find that Stivers delivered the note to plaintiffs, but without
saying whether for a valuable consideration or not; and they
refer the court to the deposition of a witness and the record of
a chancery suit appended to the verdict for the evidence on
that point.
This special verdict is manifestly imperfect and uncertain, as
it finds the evidence of facts, and not the facts themselves.
A verdict, says Coke (Co. Litt. 227, a), finding matter uncertainly and ambiguously, is insufficient, and no judgment will be
given thereon.
A verdict which finds but part of the issue and says nothing
-as to the rest is insuffcient, because the jury have not tried the
whole issue. So, if several pleas are joined, and the jury find
some of them well, and as to others find a special verdict which
is imperfect, a venire facias de novo will be granted for the
whole. 2 Roll. Abr. 722, P1. 19; Auncelme v. Auncelme, Cro.
Jac. 31; Woolmer v: Cdston, Cro. Jac. 113; Treswell v. Middleton, Cro. Jac. 653; Rex v. Hayes, 2 Ld. Raym. 1518.
In all special verdicts, the judges will not adjudge upon any
matter of fact, but that which the jury declare to be true by
their own -finding; and therefore the judges will not adjudge
upon an inquisition or aliquid tale found at large in a special
verdict; for their finding the inquisition does not affirm that all
in it is true. Street v. Roberts, 2 Sid. 86.
In the Chesapeake Ins. Co. v. Stark, (6 Cranch, 268,) and
Barnes v. Williams, _(11 Wheaton, 415,) this court have decided
that, where in'a special verdict the essential facts are not distinctly found by the jury, although there is sufficient evidence to establish them, the court will not render a judgment upon such
an imperfect special verdict, but will remand the cause to the
court below, with directions to award a venire de novo. The
court in this case would have been bound to pursue the same

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

485

Prentice et al. v.-Zane's Administrator.

course, if the judgment of the court below had been rendered
on the imperfect special verdict which the record exhibits. But
it appears that the court and counsel were aware of this imperfection in the verdict, and that it was not such as would warrant any judgment thereon by the court. Nevertheless, the
parties, instead of asking for a venire de novo, or amending the
verdict, agree to waive the error, and to submit the cause to the
court, both on the facts and the law. Their agreement is as
follows: "Memorandum. Upon the trial of this cause the parties, by
their attorneys, filed a written agreement in the words following, to wit: -I And the parties agree that the court, in deciding upon the foregoing verdict, shall look to and regard the decisions of the courts of the State of Pennsylvania, as found in
the several printed volumes of the reports thereof, to avail as
much as if the same were found by said verdict, and to have
such weight as in the judgment of the court they ought to
have; and the parties further agree to waive all objections to
said verdict on account of its finding in part evidence, and not
fact. And that the court, in deciding thereupon, may make all
just inferences and conclusions of fact and law from the evidence and facts therein stated, and the decisions aforesaid,
which, in the opinion of the court, a jury ought to draw therefrom if the same were submitted to them upon the trial of this
cause; and that this agreement is to be made part of the record
in this suit.' "
The judgment of the court below was rendered upon this
submission, and not on the special verdict alone.
In cases at law, this court can only review the errors of the
court below in matters of law appearing-on the record. If the
facts upon which that court pronounced their judgment do not
appear on the record, it is impossible for this court to say that
their judgment is erroneous in law. What " inferences or conclusions of fact" the court may have drawn from the evidence
submitted to them, we are not informed by the record. The
fact submitted to the judge formed the turning-point of the case.
So far as the record exhibits the facts, no error appears. The
note being found to have been obtained from the defendant by
fraud, the plaintiff's right to recover on it necessarily depended
on the fact that he gave some consideration for it, or received it
in the usual course of trade. We must presume that the court
found this fact:against the plaintiff; and if so, their judgment
was undoubtedly correct. Whether their "inferences or conclusions of fact"1 were correctly drawn from the evidence, is not
for this c'ourt to decide.
41*.

486

SUPREME COURT.
Prentice et al. v. Zane's Administrator.

That such has been the uniform course of decision in this
court, may be seen by reference to a few of the many cases in
which the same difficulty has occurred. In Hyde v. Booraem,
(16 Pet. 169,) this court say, We cannot upon a ivrit of error revise the evidence in the court below, in order to ascertain
whether tle judge rightly interpreted the evidence, or drew
right conclusions from it. That is the proper province of the
jury, or of the judge himself, if the trial by jury is waived.
The court can only reexamine the law so far as he' has pronounced it on a state of facts, and not merely on the evidence
of facts found in the record in the making of a .special verdict
or an agreed case. If either party in the .court below is dissatisfied with the ruling of the judge in a matter of law, that
ruling should be brought before the 'Supreme Court, by an appropriate exception, in the nature of a bill of exceptions, and
should not be mixed up with supposed conclusions in matters
of fact." See, also, Minor -v. Tillotson, 2 How. 394, and
United States v. King, 7 How: 833.
The judgment of the court below is therefore affirmed.
Mr. Justice McLEAN, Mr. Justice WAYNE, and Mhr. Justice
WOODBURY dissented.
Mr. Justice WAYNE.
I do not concur with the court in the course which it has
taken in this case, or in affirming the.judgment. The record in
my view is irregular. It is difficult to say whether it has been
brought to this court upon a special verdict, or a case stated by
agreement of the parties; and I think it difficult to determine
whether the court below acted upon either. It may have
given its judgment pro fornri to get the case to this court.
I think a different direction ought- to have been given to it, by
returning the case to the District. Court for amendment, so that
the case might have been decided substantially upon its merits.'
This would have been according to what has been done by this
court in other cases similarly circumstanced as this case is.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY.
I feel'obliged to dissent from the judgment in this case.
It is Conceded that the special verdict is defective in form.
Instead of stating some of the matter as a "fact,-only the
evidence of it is given. The most obvious and proper course
under such circumstances would sem to be, to send the case
back, and give an opportunity to the plaintiff to haye" that
defect corrected, and afterwards, if the case comes up again,

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

487

Prentice et al. v. Zane's Administrator.

to render judgment on the merits upon all the facts, when thus
formally set out. This could regularly be done by reversing the judgment below, instead of affirming it, as here. That
judgment was rendered erroneously on this same defective verdict, instead of putting it first in proper shape, and then deciding.on it as corrected.
After the reversal here, we should, in my opinion, remand
the case to the Circuit Court, not to have judgment entered
there either way on this imperfect verdict, but to have a venire de novo ordered so as to correct it. Such I understand
to be the well-settled practice of this court. As decisive proof,
that the course now pursued, of refusing to send the case back
for correction before final judgment, is not in accordance with
what has been done by this court in like cases, Chief Justice
Marshall, in Chesapeake Ins. Co. v. Stark, 6 Cranch, 268,
observed,In this case the jury have found an abandonment, but have not found whether it was made in due time
or otherwise. The fact is therefore found defectively, and
for that reason a venire facias de novo must be awarded."
"Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions
to award a venire facias de novo.". Such was deemed the
proper course there, rather than at once to give absolute and
final judgment, as here, against the plaintiff, because the special
verdict was defective. Another objdcti6n there was precisely
as here, "1because the jury have found the evidences of the
authority and time, but not the fact of authority nor the reasonableness of the time." (p. 271.)
, So again, in Livingston v. Mar. Ins. Co., 6 Cranch, 280, the
court made a like order. And another of similar character in
Barnes v. Williams, 11 Wheaton, 415. We should thus obtain
a verdict in due form, with all the facts found positively, and
not the mere evidence of some of them submitted. And the
judgment below could then be rendered understandingly, as it
could also here, if the case was again brought here by either
party.
It does not seem promotive of justice to affirm a judgment
below, on the ground that the imperfect verdict must at all
events stand, and to decide technically on the hypothesis that
a certain transaction is not in the case as a fact, and is not to
be considered, nor allowed to be corrected and restated, though
full evidence of it is submitted. And the more especially does
it look wrong, where, if it was corrected in conformity with
what the evidence proves, fhe judgment ought, in my view, to
be for the plaintiffs.
But it is objected, that the counsel agreed below to waive

SUPREME COURT.
Prentice et al. v. Zane's Administrator.

this exception to the special verdict, and consequently the
court there rendered judgment on that agreement and waiver, as
well as on the verdict, and that this was a wrong course of
proceeding.
Supposing it was wrong, there is no proof that the court
acted on the agreement and waiver, but may have deemed it
proper to disregard them and decide on the verdict alone. On
the contrary, if that court decided on the whole, their decision
for the defendant seems to me erroneous, both on the merits
and on the course of pioceeding, and ought in either court to
be reversed instead of affirmed, as it has been on this occasion
by the majority of this court. The original plaintiffs should,
on the apparent merits, in my apprehension, recover, because
no doubt exists, first, that in point of law the note in controversy must be construed by the laws of Pennsylvania, where
it was made; and that by those laws it was negotiable. See
act of February 27th, 1797, 4 Dallas, Laws of Pennsylvania,
102.
It is as little in doubt, that no pretence exists but that the
plaintiffs took this note from the second indorsees before it was
due, and without any circumstances to excite suspicion or cast a
shade over its goodness, and without any notice or knowledge
of the badness of its original consideration.
Under such circumstances it is equally clear, that such a bond
fide holder of a note is presumed to have given a valid consideration for it, and on producing it is entitled to a recovery of its
amount, unless this presumption is repelled by counter evidence. Story on Prom. Notes, p. 220.
Furthermore, in such case it is no obstacle to--a recovery,
that a consideration is not shown between the first indorsee
and his indorser. 1 Adolph. & Ell. 498.
But it is found here that, for some reason not specified in the
record, there was fraud in the original consideration. , Hence it
is contended that the holder .must, in such case, prove a consideration given by him; but he is not otherwise affected by
the original fraud, when without notice of it. -4-Adolph. &
Ell. 470; Chit. on Bills, 69. ,
Granting this for the argument, it appears that he proceeded
to show a consideration, and proved that the secbnd indorsee
passed the note to him to secure and pay certain debts and liabilities assumed then in his behalf, ,as would seem tci be inferable from the record. It.would- in, that event be.-obtained in
the course of business for a new and original consideration, and
thus the transfer stood unimpeached. But if the, debts were
pregxisting ones, as is contended, they would still -constitute a

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

489

Prentice et al. v. Zanes Administrator.

good consideration. However the decisions in different States
on this may differ, and may have changed at different periods,
this court seems deliberately to have held this doctrine in
Swift v. Tyson, 16 Peters, 15, 22.
It will not answer to overturn all these established principles,
because some might fancy the equities of .the maker, who was
defrauded as to the consideration, greater than those of the
present holder, who paid a full and valuable consideration for
the note, relying, too, on the good faith of'the mpker, not to send
negotiable paper into the market, ind running for five years,
so as to mislead innocent purchasers, and, for aught which appears, making no attempt to recall it when discovering he was
defrauded, and giving no public and wide caution, as is usual,
by advertisement or otherwise, against a purchase of it after
such discovery.
Under such circumstances, if equities were to weigh, irrespective of the law, which cannot be correct, they seem rather
to preponderate in favor of the holder, who has thus been misled and exposed to be wronged by the conduct-of the maker.
United States v. Bank of the Metropolis, 15 Peters, 398.
1Finally, were we compelled to give a decision as to the
merits on the special verdict, as it now stands somewhat defective in form, but -with an agreement by counsel virtually to
waive the defect of form, it would be most just to regard the
jury as intending to find for a fact what they find as given in
evidence and uncontradicted. This is clearly the substance of
this verdict, and in such a view, as already shown, the same result would follow, that the plaintiffs appear in law entitled to
recover.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the Western
District of Virginia, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,* it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

