JANUARY TERM, 1850.

83

The United States v. Buchanan.

of property, real or personal, with the exceptions stated, is sub-

ject to its laws; and also the numberless enterprises in which
its citizens may be engaged. These are subjects of State regulation and State taxation, and there is no Federal power under
the Constitution which can impair this exercise of State sovereignty.
We think the law of Louisiana imposing the tax in question
is not repugnant to any power of the Federal gov.ernment, and
consequently the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State
is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record. from the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
affirmed, with costs.

TEE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERRiot, v. McKEAN BucHANAN.
Commissions for drawing bills of exchange were not usually allowed to permanent
pursers in the nivy; and on the 10th of November, 1826, commissions for such
services to commanders of squadrons and officers of any grade were expressly
abolished.
A custom cannot be set up against a settled rule; nor can it ever be binding unless
it be ancient, reasonable, generally known, and certain.
There are two books for the government of the officers of the navy, usually known
as the "Blue Book" and the "Red Book." The "Red Book," although later in
date, did not repeal the "Blue Book," except in some few specified particulars.
The duty of paying mechanics and laborers at the navy-yards was imposed, by the
Blue Book, upon pursers who were stati6ned there. It was made a part of their
official duty. As this was not repelled by the Red Book, no commission can be
allowed to a purser for performing this service.
The question, whether or not these acts were parts of the official duty of pnrsors, was
one of law, to be decided by the court, and not of fact, to be left to the jury.
Losses aUeged to have been sustained by a purser, in consequence of an order by the
commodore forbidding certain sales of slops, cannot be set off in a suit by the
United States upon the purser's bond.
The statute of Mlarch 3, 1797, which allows set-offs, has for its object the settlement
between the parties of their mutual accounts or debts. But wrongs or torts done,
and any unliquidated damages claimed, have never beenpermitted as a set-off.
It appears, also, that the government is not responsible for a wrong committed by one
officer upon another. The party injured has other modes of redress than setting
off the damages as a defence, when sued upon his bond by the United States.

THis case was brought iup by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsyl-

84

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Buchanan.

vania, having been carried there from the District Court, in
which it originated.
It was a suit brought by the United States against Buchanan, who was a purser in the navy, to recover a balance of
$11,535.50, alleged to be due by him. It was brought upon
three several bonds, which had been executed by him on the
28th of February, 1836, the 24th of November, 1830, and the
24th of February, 1834. The defence-was, that he was entitled to certain credits which the accounting officers of the government had refused to allow.
The items for which the defendant claimed credit were :
1. Charge of commission for drawing bills of exchange .
.
.
. -.
.
$ 1,601.ยง6
2. Charge of commissions on payments to mechanics and laborers at navy-yard, Pensacola.
.
!;9 5.6i
3. Loss of commissions and depreciation of property 9,3'60.31
4. Loss of commissions on sale of slops
.
.
85.52
It will be necessary to take up these several items in order,
after a few general remarks.
. The act of Congress passed on the 7th of February, 1815,
(3 Stat. at Large, 202,) directed the Board of Navy Commissioners to prepare such rules and regulations as shall be necessary for securing responsibility in the subordinate officers and
agents of the Navy Department. In obedience to this act, the
Board of Navy Commissioners prepared a set of "Rules, Regulations, and Instructions for the Naval Service of the United
States," which were published in Washington in 1818. This
is the book which is referred to, both in the subsequent arguments of counsel and opinion of the court, as tie Blue Book.
Its bearing upon the several claims of the defendant, Buchanan,
will be mentioned when they come to be noticed seriatim.
The Red Book was published at Washington in 1832. Its
title was, "Rules of the Navy Department regulating the Civil
Administration of the Navy of the United States." The order
of the then Secretary of the Navy, prefixed to the book, contained the following sentence :1The 'Rules, Regulations, and Instructions' for the naval
service, as published in 1818, relate to other branches of administration in this department, and, in most particulars, -are entirely distinct in their character. They are now undergoing a thorough revision; and when corrected and enlarged, if approved
by the competent authority, they will be separately printed and
forwarded to those interested in their contents."
In this Red Book, at page 49, there is the following note to
chapter 57, which treats of the printed regulations of 1818 -

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

85

The United States r. Buchanan.

Note. -Except in these two particulars, [which are mentioned in the page to which the note is attached,] and in others
in which they have been expressly amended, these regulations
are now in full force; their force being derived from the provisions of the act of Congress of the 7th of February, 1815, and
from the sanction of the President and Secretary of the Navy,
who have power to adopt any naval regulations, though not
within the purview of the act of 1815, if not violating any law
of Congress, and if supposed by them to be beneficial in their
operation."
We will now take up the separate credits which were claimed
by the defendant.
1st, Commission for drawing bills of exchange.
There was no dispute about the amount of bills drawn. A
certificate of Mr. Dayton, the Fourth Auditor, stated them to
amount to $ 65,074.34; that they were drawn on the Secretary
of the Navy, at various times from the 24th of May, 1827, to
the 9th of February, 1828, by whom they were duly honored,
and the amount thereof charged to Purser Buchanan on the
books of the office.
In 1826, the two following orders were issued by the Secretary of the Navy, in the form of a letter of instruction to the
Fourth Auditor.
"Navy Department, 9th November, 1826.
C SIR,
Instructions have been transmitted to the commanders of our several squadrons abroad, to obtain the funds required
for their support from the navy agent near their respective
States.
"No percentage or premium will hereafter be allowed to officers of any grade making drafts upon the department, unless
they are too remote from the residence of any navy agent to
procure the money.
"I am, respectfully, &c.,
-

(Signed,)
SAMUEL L. SOUTHARD.
"TOBIAS WATKINS, EsQ., FourthAuditor of the Treasury."

"I certify the foregoing to be a true copy of a letter from the
Navy Department, on file in this office.
A. 0. DAYTON.
"Treasury Department,FourthAuditor's Ofice, July 5, 1844."
,1Navy Department, 10th November, 1826.
"SIR, -In reply to the inquiry contained in your letter of
yesterday's date, I have to inform you that the allowance of
premium, or percentage, to officers drawing bills on the departVOL. VIII.

8

86

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. Buchanan.

ment would cease from the time the officers shall severally receive instructions on the subject.
"I am, respectfully,
(Signed,)
SAMUEL L. SouTuHnD.
"TOBIAS WATKINs, EsQ., Fourth Auditor of Treasury."
"I certify the foregoing to be a true copy of a letter from the
Navy Department, on file in this office.
A. 0. DAYTON.
Treasury Department,Fourth Auditor's Ofice, July 5, 1844."
2d. Charge of commission on payments to mechanics and
laborers at the navy-yard, Pensacola. These payments were
made from October, 1835, to December, 1837, and amounted to
$91,015.05, on which a commission of 2-9 per cent. was charged.
The Blue Book, at page 100, when treating of the duties of
a purser, said, - '" Every purser of a yard shall settle his accounts at the treasury every twelve months," &c., &c. But
it nowhere recognized the allowance of a commission.
3d. Loss of commissions and depreciation of property.
4th. Loss of commissions on sales of slops.
These two items belong to the same head, and must be treated together.
The ship's stores under the purser's control are of two kinds,
called public stores, or slops, and private stores. Both descriptions are purchased with the money of the government, but
they are differently situated with respect to the commission
which the purser receives upon their issue and consumption by
the ship's crew. There was no dispute in this case about the
first-mentioned class. The purser claimed a commission of ten
per cent., which was allowed to him in the settlement of his accounts. The controversy was confined to the second class.
In May, 1839, the frigate Constitution sailed for the Pacific.
She was commanded by Captain Turner, and the defendant
was the purser. On board of her was Commodore Claxton, the
commander of the squadron on the Pacific station. Early in
the year 1840, Commodore Claxton issued an order, that, upon
clothing taken from the private stores of the purser, there
should not be charged a greater advance than ten per cent.
The defendant remonstrated, and a long correspondence ensued ;
but he was compelled to submit, and during the rest of the
voyage he disposed of his stores at that advance, instead of the
larger premium to which he considered himself entitled. It is
unnecessary to state the particulars of the claim, or-the reasons
on which it was founded, because the court did not consider it
a proper set-off in this action, even if the allegations of the defendant had been well founded.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

87

The United States v. Buchanan.

The suit was brought by the United States, in the District
Court, in May, 1844. It was an action of debt brought upon
the three bonds mentioned in the commencement of this statement. The defendant pleaded non est factum and performance, and claimed to set off the items of account above mentioned, which had been rejected by the accounting officers.
Before the trial, the counsel filed the following agreement: "It is agreed, that, under the pleadings in this case, the
question to be submitted, tried, and determined is the correctness of the credits, o 'any of them, claimed by the defendant in
his account current with the United States under his old bond,
and under the date of March 1, 1844, and which were disallowed in the reconcilement of his accounts by the Treasury
Department, bearing date on the 27th of March, 1844; the
said question to be considered as if arising under special pleadings in the cause. Credits claimed, if allowed, to be noted as
of the date when they originated, with a view to future adjustment under his respective bonds.
H. M. WATTS,
" May 16th, 1845.
Of special Counsel for Plaintiffs.
G. M. WHARTON,

For the Defendant."
The counsel for the United States then offered in evidence, 1. The above agreement.
2. The three bonds of the defendant.
3. The treasury transcripts, which exhibited a balance due
by the defendant to the United States of $ 11,535.50, with interest from the 1st of March, 1844.
The evidence on the part of the defendant consisted of the
correspondence which had passed between himself and Commodore Claxton and others; and also testimony, oral and documentary, upon the respective binding authority of the Blue
and Red Books; and also upon the custom and usage of the
navy with respect to pursers' commissions.
Upon the last
point, the United States produced a great deal of counter evidence.
The evidence being closed on both sides, the counsel of the
plaintiffs then and there respectfully prayed the cour' to charge
the jury, 1. That the rules, regulations, and instructions for the naval
service of the United States, prepared by the Board of Naval
Commissioners, and approved by the Secretary of the Navy, on
the 17th of September, 1817, and particularly those under the
head of "Pursers," Nos. 12, 13, 14, were in full force, and

188

SUPREME COURT.
The 'United States v. Buchanan.

obligatory on defendant during the time he served as purser on
the Pacific station, from 1839 to 1842, under Commodore
Claxton.
2. That defendant had no right to issue slops, wearing apparel, or materials of which wearing apparel was made, at a
greater profit than ten per centum.
3. That the issue of slops and private purser's stores was
under thb control of the commander, and that it was his right
and duty, if he thought the interests of the government and
the crew required it, to restrict such issues of private stores.
4. That if the jury. believe that upwards of seventy pieces
of silk handkerchiefs were issued from the purser's stores without the approval of the conmander, such an issue was contrary
to the regulations of the service, and justified the commander
in restricting the future issues by the purser.
5. That the order of Commodore Claxton and Captain
Turner to Purser Buchanan, to limit his profit to ten per cent.
on the cost of slops and wearing apparel, and the materials of
which wearing apparel was made, was conformable to law and
the regulations of the naval service.
6. That the United States are not responsible to the defendant for any supposed loss of commissions and depreciation of
property arising out of the enforcement of the above order, or
the conduct of Commodore Claxton.
7. That if the order of Commodore Claxton was illegal, and
loss actually resulted to the defendant, the Unitea States would
not be responsible in this action.
8. That damages arising out of torts cannot be set off.
9. That unliquidated damages arising out of the conduct of
Commodore Claxton to defendant cannot be set off against the
claim of the United States in this suit.
10. That defendant, in an action against him by the government, cannot set off a claim which depends upon the pleasure
of the government, and is not susceptible of legal enforcement.
11. That the defendant cannot set off prospective profits,
which he might have made if he had been permitted to sell to
the crew without restraint; nor is the government responsible
for any depreciation of property.
12. That there can be no usage recognized by our courts
which is contrary to, law, and that the evidence given by defendant of a -practice to charge twenty-five per cent. on wearing apparel, and materials of which wearing apparel is made,
is of a practice contrary thereto.
13. That the charge of two and a half per cent. by defendant, for drawing bills of exchange upon the government, is not
warranted by law, and ought not to be allowed.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

89

The United States v. Buchanan.

14. That the charge of commissions by defendant for disbursing money of the government, in payment of mechanics
and laborers at the navy-yard, Pensacola, is not warranted by
law, and ought not to be allowed.
15. That the orders of the Secretary of the Navy, ot the
20th of March, 1840, and 2d of December, 1840, were not intended by the Secretary, nor do they or either of them contain
an assumption or agreement on the part of the government, to
pay any loss of commissions or depreciation of property complained of by Purser Buchanan. 16. That the United States, by the agreement filed by the
counsel of both parties in this cause, and the evidence, is entitled to recover a verdict for the sum of $ 11,535.50, with interest from March, 1844, as appears by the Treasurer's transcript referred to in said agreement.
And the learned judge charged the jury.
And thereupon the counsel for the plaintiffs excepted to said
charge generally, and to every part thereof, and in addition to
such general exceptions, and without prejudice thereto, specified the following exceptions, viz.: That the said judge, in answer to the first, second, third,
fourth and fifth, and twelfth prayer for instruction, charged
the jury, -

"That the commander of a vessel of war has a right to issue
orders in relation to the discipline of his ship, and the conduct
of his officers on board, and to enforce these orders, he being
responsible for any abuse of it. It is also his right to control
the issues of stores by the purser, and, if he thought the interest of the government or of the crew required it, to restrict the
issues of such stores to a proper quantity ; but he had no right
to reduce or control the prices at which such stores should be
issued, that being fixed by the rules and regulations, and the
usages and customs, of the navy. Was there, then, a fixed price
or rate of advance which the purser had a right to charge on
these articles, and if so, what was it? And was it charged by
the order of Commodore Claxton?
"On behalf of the United States, it is contended that the
rules and regulations prepared by the Board of Navy Commissioners, and published in 1818, were in full force, and that by
these, 'all articles of wearing apparel, and materials of which
wearing apparel is made, to be charged as slops,' and an advance of ten per cent. only allowed.
"It is admitted, -that, so far as these rules and regulations are
not opposed to an act of Congress, and subsequent rules and
regulations they are in force; but it is contended that these
8*

90

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Buch.ianan.

do not extend to the private stores of the purser, but only to
those purchased by the government; or if they do, that the
rule is superseded by the regulations issued in 1832, which
were
full force in 1839- 40.
. "I in
deem
it unnecessary to detain you by an examination
of
the first view, as.I think the last is correct ; although the rule
or section referred to in the Red Book, on the face of it, purports to bear date 27th July, 1809, and may have been suspended by the rules of 1818 (as to which, however, it is unnecessary to decide). I consider the incorporation of it in the
rule of 1832 as a new issue of that date, and binding-from the
time of its. promulgation, although it may conflict with the
rules of 1818.
"Each successive secretary or head of a department has the
same right as his predecessor to give a construction to the laws,
or regulations, or usages, of the business of his department;
and the construction given by the last will be binding until
changed by his successor. This construction of the rules of
1832 has been adopted, not only by the accounting officers of
the government, but by Congress. (See an Act for the relief
of E. B. Babbit, March 2d, 1833.) The rules of 1832 provide
that twenty-five per cent. should be allowed upon articles of
secondary necessity, embracing it, &c. (See Red Book, p. 18.)
"Are these articles of private clothing, and the materials of
which such clothing is made, such as are furnished by pursers,
articles of secondary necessity ? This is a question for the
jury to determine. From the evidence, it appears that the articles furnished by the purser are of a finer material than those
provided by the government, and have generally been considered in the service as a holiday or shore dress for the seamen.
They are not required to purchase them, but do so at their own
pleasure. A number of witnesses have been examined, who
proved it to have been the custom and usage to charge upon
these articles an advanced of twenty-five per cent, and that they
were considered of secondary necessity. It is true there can be
no usage recognized by the courts which is contrary to law.
Usage cannot alter the law, but it is evidence of the construction given to it; and when the usage is established, it regulates
the rights and duties of those who are within its limits. But
it is said a different construction was given to these regulations
by Secretary Paulding, and that he confirned the view and
construction of Commodore Claxto'-.
"If the order of Commodore ClaxtonAad been confined to
supplies purchased subsequent to the receipt of this general order, then there might have been force in this argument; but no

JANUARY T[ERM, 1850.

91

The United States v. Buchanan.

change of a usage, even by authority, can have a retrospective
effect, but must be limited to the future."
And in answer to the sixth and fifteenth prayers for instruction, the learned judge charged the jury, "It is, however, said, supposing all these doings by Commodore Claxton to have been wrong, still the government is not
liable for his acts, and therefore the defendant is not entitled to
a set-off in this action, although he may have sustained damages by them. For the purpose of this case, and with a view
of obtaining your verdict on the merits of this claim, I state the
law to be, that Commodore 'Claxton was the agent of the government in all this transaction, and although his acts may not
have been previously authorized by the government, yet if they
were afterwards ratified by the Secretary of the Navy, with a
full knowledge of the facts, as they appear to have been, then
the government is responsible for any loss occasioned by -his orders so ratified or confirmed."
In answer to the seventh, eighth, and ninth prayers of the
plaintiffs for instruction, the judge charged the jury, "Again it is contended, that, supposing all the allegations on
part of the defendant to have been fully made out by the evidence, yet this is not such a claim as can be set off against the
demand of the government in this action. However this might
be in suits between individuals, the government of the United
States does not resort to technicalities to screen it from a just
claim by any of its citizens. The act of 3d March, 1797, directs, not only that legal, but that equitable, credits should be
allowed -to the debtors of the United States by the proper officers of the Treasury Department, and if then disallowed, that
,they may be given in evidence at the trial; and this whether
the credits arise out of the particular transaction for which he
was sued, or any distinct or independent transaction, which
would constitute a legal or equitable offset or defence, in whole,
or in part, of the debt sued for by the United States.
"If, therefore, you believe the defendant has sustained injury
by the order of Commodore Claxton, which, according to these
principles, was contrary to law in limiting the prices, and which
order was subsequently approved by the Secretary of the Navy,
having a full knowledge of the facts, you will, from the evidence, ascertain the amount of such loss, and credit the defendant with it as an equitable defence .against the claim of the
government. In ascertaining this amount, you will- recollect
that the prohibition of Commodore Claxton as to price applied
only to clothing, or materials of which clothing is made, and
to no other articles of secondary necessity."

92

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Buchanan.

,.In answer to the tenth and eleventh prayers of the plaintiffs
for instruction, the judge charged the jury, . It is incumbent on the defendant to satisfy 'you of the
amount of credit to which he is entitled under this- head. In
estimating it, you are to allow only the actual loss sustained by
him, and not any prospective or anticipated profits which might
have been made by the defendant, supposing his whole stock
to have been sold at the prices claimed by him.
"If, in consequence of this order, the goods remaining on
hand were injured or damaged, he is entitled to recover the
amount of such damage; but the jury will determine Whether
such damage was caused by this order, and whether the sales
were lessened in quantities in consequence of the reduction of
price. The- sales made on shore, and those to other pursers,
are not such sales as would entitle him to charge the government with the advance of twenty-five per cent. on cost; but
if made bonafide, with a view to reduce an anticipated loss, he
will be entitled to be made good his actual loss on such sales."
In answer to the thirteenth and - fourteenth prayers of the
plaintiffs for instructions to the jury, the judge charged, " The second and third items of claim are for commissions
on moneys paid by the defendant to mechanics and laborers,
when stationed at the navy-yard at Pensacola, from October,
"1835,to December, 1837; and a commission on the amount of
bills of exchanges drawn by him on the government, from
May, 1827, to February, 1830.
,' These are alleged to be extra services, for which, by the
custom of the department, he is entitled to extra compensation.
"From the rules and regulations of 1818 and 1832, as given
in evidence, it appears that both the drawing of bills of exchange by the pursers when abroad, and the payment of mechanics and laborers by them, when stationed at navy-yards,
were duties devolved on and usually performed by pursers.
"1But if,from the evidence, the jury believe that these duties were required of, and were performed by, the defendant
over and above the regular duties of his appointment, and that
it has been the practice of the government or Navy Department
to allow to pursers compensation on commissions over and
above the regular pay, and that the defendant took upon himself the labor and responsibility of such payments and drawing
of bills, with an understanding on both sides that he should be
compensated for the same as extra services, then it is competent for the jury to allow such sum as they may find to be reasonable and conformable to the general usages of the government in like cases. But the custom and usage which has been

JANUARY TERM, 1850:

93

The United States v. Buchanan.

invoked by the defendant in his favor, must also operate when
it is established against him. The usage, to be binding, must
be uniform, and be applicable to all officers of the same grade,
under similar circumstances. It is not sufficient that one, two,
or half a dozen officers have been allowed an extra compensation for such services, unless the - ile was a general one, so that
each officer performing the -. rv .e might be supposed to rely
on the known practice of the government to allow extra compensation at the time the service is performed. The jury will
say, whether the few cases in which extra compensation is
proved to have been allowed are not rather exceptions to the
general rule of refusing such compensation, than proof of the
rule itself.
"My opinion is, that the weight of the evidence is against
the claim of the defendant for either of these items."
And thereupon, the counsel for the said plaintiffs did then
and there except to the aforesaid charge and opinions of the said
judge, on the several points upon which his instructions were
prayed for, to the jury. And inasmuch as the charge and opinions, so excepted to, do not appear upon the record, the said
counsel for the plaintiffs did then and there tender this bill of
exceptions to the opinion of the said judge, and requested the
seal of the said judge should be put to the same, according to
the form of the statute in such cases made and provided. And
thereupon, the said judge being so requested, did put his seal to
this bill of exceptions, pursuant to the aforesaid statute in such
cases made and provided.
[L.

S.]

ARCHIBALD RANDALL, DistrictJudge.

The jury, under the above instructions of the court, found
the following verdict :" We, the jury, impanelled in the case of the United States
v. McKean Buchanan, a purser in the navy, find that there is
due by the plaintiffs to the defendant the following sums, to
wit :Commissions on the payment of mechanics and
laborers at the navy-yard, Pensacola
$ 2,275.38
Interest on the same

.

.

..

1,024.00

Commissions on drawing bills of exchange

1,626.86

Interest on the same

1,455.00

-

.

..

Loss on sales on board the frigate Constitution
Loss of commissions

.

.

..

385.52
5,277.46

$12,044.22
Deduct government claim
Due Purser Buchanan

-

-

11,535.50
508.72"

94

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Buchanan.

The counsel for the United States then moved for a new
trial, objecting, amongst other things, to the allowance of interest, where no such claim was made by the defendant. Whereupon the counsel for the defendant filed a remittur for the two
sums of interest, amounting together to the sum of $ 2,479, and
agreeing that a judgment might be entered against him in favor
of the United States for $2,148.99.
The court overruled the motion for a new trial, and directed
a judgment to be entered accordingly. By the above bill of exceptions, the case was carried to the
Circuit Court, which, on the 9th of November, 1846, affirmed
'the judgment of the District Court.
The United States brought the case up, by writ of error, to
this court.
It was argued by Mr. Gillet and Mr. Johnson (AttorneyGeneral), for the United States, and Mr. G. M. Wharton and
Mr. Dallas, for the defendant in error.
The brief filed by the Attorney-General made the following
points:I. That the court erred in the charge given as to commissions
on bills drawn by the defendant, and payments made by him
to mechanics and laborers at the navy-yard; because, whether
thgse commissions were to be allowed was a question of law
for the court, depending upon the rules and regulations of the
navy, which do not warrant them. 1st. By the rules and regulatiois it was the defendant's duty to perform the services for'
which the charges were made. 2d. No paro*l evidence was admissible to the contrary. 3d. And, in fact, there was no evidence from which the jury were at liberty to infer that the services for which the charges were made were extra to those which
he was in duty bound to perform under the rules and regulations,
or that there was any practice or usage under which he could
be paid for the same. 4 Howard, 80; 2 Wash. C. C. 24; 3 ib.
149; Gilpin, 372; 6 Binn. 417.
II. That the court erred in charging the jury that the rules
* on'the subject of pursers' commission on supplies furnished to
the crew, established by the Blue Book of 1818, were superseded and repealed by the republication of the rule of 1809, in
the Red Book of 1832; whereas the Red Book declares that
the rules contained in the Blue Book, except in two particulars
mentioned, and others which have been expressly amended,
were in full force for the reasons assigned. That the regulations as to pursers' commissions on articles furnished to the
crew in the Blue Book are questions of law, and the true con-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

95

The United States v. Buchanan.

struction of them is, that pursers are entitled to dispose of slops,
and articles of wearing apparel, and of materials of which it is
made, at a commission or profit of ten per cent. only. That
the regulation of 1809, allowing twenty-five per cent. upon articles of secondary necessity, if it ever included wearing apparel, or materials of which it is made, was superseded and
repealed by the regulations of 1818, which directed them to be
charged as slops, and was not revived by the republication in
1832. And that the secondary articles mentioned in the regulations of 1809 were defined in the regulations of 1818 to be
soap and the other articles enumerated, (wearing apparel, or
materials for it, nor being among them,) and upon these, by
the regulations of 1818, pursers were to be allo.wed to charge
twenty-five per cent. profit.
III. That the court erred in, charging the jury that the unliquidated damages for commissions and losses could be set off
in this action at all; and also erred -in charging that the United
States were liable for them, if incurred by Commodore Claxton; and in stating the law. to be, that the Commodore was the
agent of the government; and'that although his acts may not
previously have been recognized, yet, if they were afterwards
ratified, with a full knowledge of the facts, as they appear to
have been, then the government isresponsible for any loss occasioned by his orders, so ratified or confirmed. 9 Pet 319; 2
Wash. C. C. 131, 161; 13 Wend. 139, 156, 157; 4 lason, 482;
5 ib. 425, 439; 10 Pet. 80; 4 S. & R. 249; 5 S. & R. 122;
10 S. & R. 14; 4 Watts & Serg. 205, 214.
IV. That there was error in the judge's charge, in answer
to the tenth and eleventh prayers;- lst. Because the tenth
was not granted when it should have been; and, 2d. Because
that part of the charge in which he told the jury that "the
sales made on shore and those to other pursers are not such
sales as would entitle him to charge the government with the
advance of twenty-five per cent. on cost; but if made bon&
fide, with a view to avoid an anticipated loss, he will be entitled
to be made good his actual loss on such sales," was erroneous,
the United States, under the circumstances, not being liable
for such loss, as the jury were, by this instruction, authorized
to charge them with.
V. That the court erred in allowing the defendant to turn
the verdict in his favor into a verdict against him, by allowing
him to remit, without the consent of the United States, and by
entering up judgment in their favor without their consent, and
contrary thereto. And because the said judgment, even as .so
corrected, is erroneous, as it includes commissions on drawing

96

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Buchanan.

bills and making payments to mechanics and laborers at the
navy-yard, and losses on alleged sales on board, and loss of
commissions.
The brief of the counsel for the defendant in error presented
the following points :1. That at the time when the alleged claim of the government. against the defendant, and the alleged credits of the defendant, arose, there -was no law of the United Stateg expressly
defining the duties or the emoluments of a purser in the navy
of the United States; but that the said duties and emoluments
were regulated by the rules and regulations of the navy, by
orders from the Navy Department, and by usage or custom.
2. That the rules and regulations prepared by the Board of
Navy Commissioners, and published in 1818, called the Blue
Book, did not extend to the private stores of the purser, but
only to thdse purchased by the government, and were not the
rule regulatifig the charge of commissions by the defendant on
the sale of private'clothing, or the materials of which it was
made,, or, of tea, sugar, and tobacco, during the period in which
the present controversy originated.
3. That the said rules of 1818, if ever applicable to said
subject-matters, were superseded to that extent by the rules
of 1832; called the Red Book; and that these latter rules regulated the duties of the"defendant and his emoluments, as to the
said subject-matters of controversy in this suit.
4. That there is no error in law in the charge of the district
Judge, nor in the record, upon the subject of the credits
claimed by the defendant for commissions on paying mechanics and laborers at the Pensacola navy-yard, and on drawing
and negotiating bills of exchange; that the said claims of the
defendant depended upon the finding by the jury of certain
facts in relation tb which evidence had been submitted on both
sides, and that the finding of those facts conclusively establishes the right of the defendant to claim said credits.
5. That this court cannot revise the finding by the jury of
the facts in controversy,, nor grant a new trial, nor reverse the
judgment below, except for error in law appearing on the
judge's charge, or on the record.
.6. That the defendant was entitled to all the emoluments of
his office, which, by express or implied contract with the
United States, belonged thereto ; and that the existing regulations of the naval service, and the existing custom and usage
of the navy, defined and formed a contract between the government and the defendant in this respect.

JANUARY

TERM,

1850.

97

The United States v. Buchanan.

7. That the defendant properly expended the money which
he received from the United States for that purpose, and with
which he is charged in account, and which is sought to be recovered back from him in this suit, in the purchase of the customary private stores; and that he was entitled to sell said
stores, in conformity with the rules of the ship, to the officers
and ciew of the Constitution, at prices regulated by the existing
rules and usage of the service ; and that he could not lawfully
be compelled to sell them at lower rates, nor without a breach
of the contract with him.
8. That defendant, as an inferior officer, was by law obliged
to submit to the orders of Commodore Claxton in the premises;
and that by so submitting he lost none of his rights as purser,
but is entitled to assert them in this suit.,
9. That the ratification of the said Commodore's conduct in
the premises by the Secretary of the Navy, with a full knowledge of the facts, rendered the United States liable for any loss
sustained by the defendant resulting from a breach of contract
as aforesaid, and from the orders of said Commodore, so ratifled; and that the Secretary had -no right to diminish the
established rates of profit with respect to stores purchased by
defendant prior to such diminution.
10. That, under the evidence in the cause, it was right to
submit to the jury, as a question of fact, what were '"articles of
secondary necessity "; and also to charge them, that, if they
were satisfied from the evidence of the existence of a usage to
consider clothing, and the materials whereof clothing is made,
as such articles, and to charge an advance thereon of twentyfive per cent., such usage was evidence of the construction
given to the law, and regulated the rights and duties of those
acting within its limits..
11. That there was no error in charging that' the defendant was entitled to a credit for the actual loss proved by hin
to have been sustained in consequence of being compelled to
sell his stores at the advance of ten per cent. only, if he were
authorized to charge an advance of twenty-five per cent. on
the same. Nor in charging that he was entitled to such credit
for all actual loss in consequence of the said order of Commodore Claxton.
12. That there is no error in law in the charge
of the district judge.
13. That the defendant was entitled to set off all equitable
as well as legal credits which he had, and had duly preferred
against the United States; and that his claims in this case, if
VOL. VIII.
9

98

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Buchanan.

found by the jury, were equitable credits, which he had a right
to set off against the plaintiffs' claim.
14. That there was no error in allowing the defendant to
remit a portion of his credits, as allowed him by the jury; nor
in entering the judgment accordingly.
Upon the first point, the counsel for the defendant in error
cited the case of United States v. Tingey, 5 Peters, 115,
126, and a circular from the Navy Department dated March,
1832.
The pay from the treasury to pursers was regulated by the
act of 18th April, 1814, see. 1, (3 Stat. at Large, 136,) which
provided, that "the pay and subsistence of a purser should be
forty dollars per month, and two rations per day."
By the act of March 3d, 1835, (4 Stat. at Large, 755, 757,)
it was provided, that "no allowance shall hereafter be made to
any officer in the naval service of the United States, for drawing bills, for receiving or disbursing money, or transacting any
business for the government of the United States," &c.
The act of August 26th, 1842, (5 Stat. at Large, 535,)
introduced a new system with reference to pursers, and provides, section 3, that, "in lieu of the pay, rations, allowances, and other emoluments authorized by the existing laws
and regulations, the annual pay of pursers shall be as follows," &c. This act also provided for the purchase of all supplies for the navy to be made with the public money, under
regulations to be prescribed by the executive. And pursers
are prohibited thereafter from "charging any profit or percentage upon stores or supplies to persons in the naval service, other than those thereinafter prescribed."
The Red Book, p. 18, provides, under the head of "Allowance to Pursers," as follows "4 1. An allowance of commission of 2-1per cent. upon payments made by pursers is of ancient date.
'ยง 2. Pursers are allowed a commission of 5 per cent. on the
amount of sales of dead men's clothes. They are also allowed
5 per cent. upon clothing distributed to the crew. January 29,
1803.
"125 per cent. upon articles of secondary necessity, embracing all articles not denominated luxuries, upon .which 5 per
cent. is not charged. 27 July, 1809.
"50 per cent. upon luxuries, such as tea, coffee, sugar, and
tobacco, when furnished eithe to officers or crew.
"In vessels of 20 guns, an additional allowance is made upon
groceries of 5 per cent., and in vessels under 20 guns, of 10 per
cent. upon the same articles."

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

99

The United States v. Buchanan.

Red Book, p. 50:
"4 1. Pursers must transmit to the Navy Commissioners a
certified invoice of all articles provided by them for vessels
bound on a cruise, including all articles procured to be sold for
their own benefit. October 20, 1830."
"ยง 3. All bills of exchange drawn by pursers on the department must be in favor of and indorsed by the commander of
the vessel or squadron. A separate letter of advice must accompany each bill, stating (among other things) the rate of exchange at which the bill is negotiated, &c., &c. August 10,
1824."
Upon the second point, the counsel for the defendant cited
numerous passages from the Blue Book, to show the rate of advance which pursers might charge upon what are called 1"private stores "; but as the court did- not decide the point, these
references are omitted.
3d point. The counsel contended that the issue of the Red
Book, by competent authority, superseded the Blue Book in
the matter of the emoluments of pursers. United States v. McDaniel, 7 Peters; 14; Act of Congress of March 2, 1833, for the
relief of E. B. Babbit.
Upon the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and tenth points, on
defendant's - brief, it is submitted, that, if the duties and
emoluments of the purser were regulated by no statute, but
dependent upon rules and usage, it was the duty of the district
judge to submit the question of fact to the jury, what the usage
in the matter was, under the evidence presented on both sides;
and that he was right in. directing them to regulate their verdict in accordance with their view of the usage.
Although there can be no usage reoognized by the court
which is contrary to law,-and usage cannot alter the law,yet it is evidence of the construction given to it; and when the
usage is establisl~ed, it regulates the rights and duties of those
within its limits. 7 Peters, 14, 15, before cited.
Allowances and emoluments were recognized by statute, as
belonging to pursers; and, of course, they were entitled to
these, as matter of contract, whenever -they rendered the proper
service. As specially applicable to the fifth point, the counsel
for defendant cited Henderson v. Moore, 5 Cranch, 11; Barr v.
Gratz, 4 Wheat. 213; Blunt's Lessee v. Smith, 7 Wheat. 248;
Brown v. Clarke, 4 How. 4; Zeller v. Eckert, Ibid. 298.
The jury have found the fact, that the defendant performed
these duties upon request, over and above the regular duties of
his appointment, that it has been the practice of the government to allow to pursers extra compensation, and that the de-

100

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. Buchanan.

fendant performed these particular services, with an understanding on both sides that he should be compensated for them
as extra services. Surely there can be no legal objection, under these circumstances, to the defendant's claim, upon this
head.
As to the eighth and ninth points, it is remarked, that the Navy Commissioners' Rules, p. 21, section 10, provide, - "If any
officer shall receive an order from his superior, contrary to the
general instructions of the Secretary of the Navy, or to any
particular order he may have received from the said Secretary
of the Navy, or any other superior, he shall represent in writing such contrariety to the superior from whom he shall have
received said order; and if, after such representation, the superior shall still insist upon the execution of his order, the officer
is to obey him, and to report the circumstances to the commander of the ship, to the commander of the fleet or squadron,
or to the Secretary of the Navy, as may be proper."
This mode was strictly pursued by the defendant; and he,
of course, lost none of his rights by obeying the law.
Upon the eleventh and twelfth points on defendant's brief,
it is submitted, that the defendant received, by the verdict and judgment below, no allowance or equitable credit,
except as a compensation for actual loss theretofore- sustained
*by him, in consequence of the erroneous construction of the
rules regulating his compensation on the part of the officers
of the government. He being entitled, by contract and law, to
dispose of the stores, which had been purchased by him prior to
any change of existing regulations, at a fixed rate; and having
been compelled by his superior officer, (whose orders were subsequently ratified by the government,) to part with them at a
less rate, -or,
in other words, the credit arising from sales
made by.him, to which he was entitled as an offset against the
money placed in his hands by the government, being illegally
diminished by the auditing officers of the United States, -he
is at liberty in.a suit against him, brought to recover the balance of mbney in his hands, to assert his rights to the proper
rate of profit, and to defalk that from the debit side of his account. The government having deposited in the purser's hands
a sum of money, with authority and instructions to buy certain
goods therewith, and to dispose of them at fixed rates, cannot,
after his purchase and subsequent disposition of these goods,
call upon him to refund the money, without an allowance to
him of the rates of profit originally agreed upon between them.
If, for example, he bought an article, with the government
money, for fifty cents, which he was entitled to dispose of for

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

101

The United States v. Buchanan.

seventy-five cents, and the United States subsequently compel
him to sell it for sixty-two and a half cents, they cannot, in
calling him to account for the money intrusted to him, deny
his right to charge them with the difference of twelve and a
half cents, which would make up his legal profit on the transaction. They become, in equity, bound themselves to reimburse him for the'actual loss of profit accruing from their act.
And such was the judge's charge. He instructed the jury to
allow "only the actual loss sustained by the defendant, and
not any prospective or anticipated profits." United States v.
Hawkins, 10 Peters, 125, shows the manner in which the pursers' accounts are adjusted at the treasury.
Upon the thirteenth point, the following authorities are adduced (a part of these authorities are also applicable to the fifth
point): - United States v. Ripley, 7 Peters, 18; United States v.
McDaniel, 7 Peters, 1; United States v. Fillebrown, 7 Peters,
28; United States v. Wilkins, 6 Wheat. 135.
The same general principle as to the right of set-off is laid
down in United States v. Robeson, 9 Peters, 319; United States
v. Bank of the Metropolis, 15 Peters, 377.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error, presenting three distinct grounds of
exception to the judgment rendered in the court below.
Neither of these is claimed to justify us in revising the finding of the jury on the evidence, though the verdict was not
acceptable in some respects to the district judge who tried the
cause, but should have been scrutinized by him, if at all, and,
if clearly wrong, submitted to another jury for correction on
the motion for a new trial. The exceptions to be now considered are, therefore, confined to the instructions given to the
jury concerning the claims made in set-off by the original defendant, and are, that they all were, in point of law, incorrect.
Those claims were, 1st. For commissions for drawing bills of exchange.
2d. For commissions on payments made to mechanics and
laborers at the navy-yard at Pensacola.
3d. For loss of commissions on sales of slops, and loss by
depreciation of property in the Pacific.
The claim for commissions for drawing bills of exchange
is founded on such service- performed at times from May, 1827,
to February, 1830. But it appears that such commissions
were not, at any period, usually allowed, to permanent pursers. And though one or two instances were given of such
allowances under peculiar circumstances, they were limited
9*

102

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Buchanan.

to that number; and on the 10th of November, 1826, commissions to commanders of squadrons, and "officers of any
grade," for drawing such bills, were expressly abolished. (Red
Book in the Navy, p. 10 and p. 27. Se6. also Letter of 4th
Auditor, 26th June, 1844; Circular, 1st April, 1833.)
When the present claim was presented to the department
by Mr. Buchanan, in 1831, it was, therefore, rejected, and seems
to have beeu abandoned by him for nearly ten years after, when,
another difficulty arising as to other transactions of his in the
Pacific, this claim was revived, and offered in set-off to a suit
by the government for moneys then .recently advanced to him.
On what ground, then, could the district judge properly
leave its allowance to the jury, as he did at the trial in this
case? It'seems to us, that he should have instructed them
that, in point of law, neither any act of Congress, nor any
regulation of the department, justified the allowance; that
the service performed was an" ordinary one, connected with
a purser's official duties, and consequently, for which, in
point of law, he was entitled to no extra compensation by
way of commissions or otherwise. (See Gratiot v. United
States, 4 How. 112.)
The two cases, often relied on to justify such an allowance,
were both claims for what was deemed by the court extra
service. (United States v. McDaniel, and United States v. Fillebrown, 7 Pet. 16 and 28.) ,
-On the subject of a usage or custom, attempted to be
proved, to overturn these principles and decisions, it seems
to us that the judge should have ruled, that a usage ought
not to be permitted to be set up, where a rule, as here, is not
doubtful, but settled. (Brown v. Jackson, 2 Wash. C. C. 24; 6
Binney; 417.) And that a usage or custom, when admissible,
must, in order to be valid, be ancient, reasonable, and generally
knowni (3 Wash. C. C. 149,) and also be certain (United States
v.Duval, Gilpin, 372). Consequently, when it appeared here
that the compensation was fixed or clear, and when it appeared
that only one, or, at the furthest, two extra allowances could
be proved of commissions for such services by permanent
pursers, and those under peculiar circumstances, he should
have directed that, in point of law, these last did not constitute a valid usage or custom, and that there was nothing
properly to be left to the jury on the subject. In the United
States v. McDaniel, 7 Pet. 16, the upage had existed uninteryears.
ruptedly for fifteen
There is a very good description of a custom or usage in
ch. 1, art. 3, of the Civil Code of Louisiana : "Customs result

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

103

The United States v. Buchanan.

from a long series of actions, constantly repeated, which have,
by such repetition and by uninterrupted acquiescence, acquired
the force of a tacit and common consent." How imperfectly
the evidence in the present case meets the requirements of
such a definition as this, or of any legal view of a valid usage,
is so obvious as not to need further explanation.
The second claim, for paying mechanics and laborers at the
navy-yard at Pensacola, from 1835 to 1837, stands in a similar condition. It was a service expressly imposed on a purser
of a yard as official, by the Blue Book of the navy, as
early as 1818 (p. 14).
But the judge instructed the jury, that this book had ceased
to be in force. In this he erred. For the Navy Department,
in 1831, had expressly and officially published, that it was
still "in full force," except in two or three other particulars,
specified in a note to the -Red Book (p. 49, note). The latter,
also, was then first printed, and not only did not profess to
repeal the former, but such was not its legal effect. The Blue
Book related chiefly to other matters than what were in the
Red Book, and which were as necessarily to remain regulated
by the former after the publication of the latter as before, and
even now as then.
The Blue Book concerns the complement of officers and
men for vessels of different sizes, the duties of those officers
.on shipboard and at yards, salutes, recruiting, &c. ; and not,
like the Red Book, relating to decisions in the civil administration of the department, and circulars, orders, &c., connected
with it.
The latter was a mere collection of these latter matters, before existing dispersed and in manuscript; and being compiled
and printed for the benefit of navy officers, as well as the department, the date of each decision and circular was given,
so that officers might see, if decisions, regulations, or circulars
conflicted in any degree, as they sometimes might, which was
of most recent date, and consequently often modifying or superseding one made earlier. The Red Book introduced nothing
new into the service, nor professed to do it, but merely arranged and made more generally known by printing, in 1831,
what had before taken place on the matters described in it, as
had been done in relation to some matters in the Blue Book,
by printing and distributing that in 1818, as well as compiling
and publishing in that other things new and permanently
useful.
There being, then, no repeal of this part of the Blue Book
relating to the duties of pursers at yards, the payment of

104

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Buchanan.

mechanics and laborers stood, as ever since 1818, if not longer,
an official duty of pursers stationed at them.
The idea of attempting to set up a usage to pay commissions for this service, and leave merely one case of the kind
to the jury as evidence of such a usage, was altogether untenable on sound principles, as before shown under the first
claim. All the other cases referred to in support of such a
usage or custom were not cases to allow commissions, though
sometimes to sanction a sum of money for a clerk.
But even this last had been abolished as early as 1826, long
before the service performed by the original defendant, and
only an additional steward had been since allowed at yards
where the workmen were numerous. (Red Book, 52. See
Letter of 4th Auditor, June 26, 1844, and Circular of 1st
April, 1833.)
There is, likewise, another defect in the instructions to the
jury on both of these points, in permitting the testimony of
naval officers, and sometimes of subordinate ones, rather than
the head of the department, to go to the jury to enable them
to decide what were and were not official daties, when it was
rather the province of the court, after being duly informed from
proper sources, to settle that as a question of law, and direct
the jury upon it. (4 How. 80; 6 Binney, 417.)
The third ground of claim, and the instructions upon it, are
in some respects different, and remain to be considered.
This claim was for commissions lost on the sale of slops
and for depreciation in property, caused by orders of Commodore Claxton in the Pacific in 1839.
The latter, finding that an unusual quantity of some kinds
of clothing had been issued by the defendant from his private
stores, on which an advance of twenty-five per cent. had been
charged, and only a small quantity from the public stores, on
which only ten per cent. advance was charged, interposed and
issued an order against taxing the crew over ten per cent. advance on certain articles of wearing apparel, on which the defendant insisted he was entitled to twenty-five. This claim
is for a loss of the difference between ten and twenty-five per
cent. on what was and might have been sold, and loss by depreciation on articles not sold. Considering the views entertained by this court on the impropriety in law of allowing this
claim to be put in at all in set-off to this action, it is not necessary to decide here which percentage was the proper one.
On the one hand, the opinion of the Commodore was sustained by that of Mr. Paulding, then Secretary of the Navy,
-presumed
to be best acquainted with the previous construe-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

105

The United States v. Buchanan.

tions in the Navy Department, - and by the express language
of the Blue Book (pp. 103 and 105), and by some early decisions published in the Red Book (p. 18), as well as by the
views of some of the members of this court; yet other constructions of these decisions tend to sustain the claim, as do
the views of. other members of this court.
Whichever of these constructions, then, may be correct, is
not now settled, because we think it clear, that such a claim
as this is not allowable at all by way of set-off to an action
brought by the government.
The statute of March 3d, 1797, which allows set-offs, has
had a very liberal construction by this court, extending it to
matters even distinct from the cause of action, if only such as
the defendant is entitled to a credit on, whether equitable or
legal. (United States v. Wilkins, 6 Wheat. 135; Ripley v.
United States, 7 Pet. 25.)
The object is to settle between the parties their mutual accounts or debts. (See the Act of Congress.)
Bat any wrongs or torts done, and any unliquidated damages
claimed, have never been permitted as a set-off. (Butts v.
Collins, 13 Wend. 156; McDonald v. Neilson, 2 Cow. 140;
Heck v. Sheener, 4 Serg. & Rawle, 249; 10 Serg. & Rawle,
14.) This rule prevails when the United States are plaintifs,
as well as individuals. (United Stateยง v. Robeson, 9 Pet. 325.)
Much less could wrongs done by others than the United.
States, and for whom it would be a very grave question whether the United States were in law responsible, be set off, and
unliquidated damages allowed.
Such a transaction, whether sounding ex delicto or ex contractu, seems to be one between the two officers, rather than
between one of them and the government. (United States v.
Hawkins, 10 Pet. 134; 9 Pet. 319.)
It is certain, that no action could technically be sustained
against the United States for any wrong done here by Commodore Claxton. And, waiving their sovereignty to bar a suit,
it is quite manifest that no claim exists as a matter of course
against the government for a wrong done by one officer against
another officer, or by one officer against an individual, when
the liability of the officer himself for public acts is often
questionable; and when the liability of the government for
his acts, private or public, is still more in doubt. (Garland
v. Davis, 4 Howard, 148, and cases there cited; Story on
Agents, 412, note; Duncan v. Findlater, 6 Clark & Fin.
903, 910.)
Nor does it alter the case, if another officer, like a Secretary

106

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Buchanan.

of the Navy, approves of the wrong. Should a post-captain
go out of the path of his duty, or act beyond his legitimate
authority, it appears on its face an affair between him and the
sufferer, and not between the latter and the government.
The defendant, if he has really been wronged by Commodore Claxton, acting against and beyond his official authority,
has not only the usual modes of redress against him in the
judicial tribunals, (Jones v. Bird, 5 Barn. & Ald. 837; 15 East,
384,) but it is gratifying to reflect, that resort to Congress is
also open for relief, and with success, undoubtedly, should the
defendant be able to satisfy Congress he was wronged by the
Commodore, and that it is just and proper for the government
to atone for any injury so done to him by another.
But some legislative sanctiola to this claim, or some recognition by Congress of a right to it, would seem an indispensable preliminary to its allowance in any form in the judicial
tribunals against the government. See United States v. McDaniel, 7 Pet. 2 and 16.
Judge Story in his work on Agents (ยง 319) says: -"In
the next place, as to the liability of public agents for torts
or wrongs done in the course of their agency, it is plain that
the government itself is not responsible for the misfeasance,
or wrongs, or neglects or omissions of duty, of the subordinate,
officers or agents employed in the public service."
This view is sustained by several adjudged cases, among
which are the United States v. Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. 720, and
8 Wendell, 403; United States v. Yanzandt, 11 Wheat. 190;
1 Peters, 318; 5 Mason, C. C, 441; 15 East, 3.93; 6 Clark
& Consequently,
Fin. 903.
the judge in the District Court erred in law
by permitting a set-off, composed of such a claim, to go to the
jury at all. There being error in the instructions on all the
three claims, and the judgment in the Circuit Court having
affirmed that in the District Court, it must be reversed and
one entered disaffirming it, and the case remanded thence to the
District Court, in order that there may be a venire de novo in
that court, and another trial had in conformity to these views.
Mr. Justice McLEAN and Mr. Justice GRIER dissented
,fromthe above opinion.
Mr. Justice WAYNE did not sit in the cause.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

107

Williams v. Benedict et al

Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court
affirming the judgment of the District Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, reversed, and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to enter a disaffirmance of the judgment of the District Court, and to remand this cause to the said District Court,
with directions to that court to award a venire facias de novo,
and for further proceedings to be had the.rein in conformity
to the opinion of this court.

THoI IAs WILLIAIMS, ADIINISTRATOR OF BE.xrAxIN J. BALDWIN, DECE SED, APPELLANT, V. J6HN W. AND WILLIANr BENEDICT, TRADING
UNDER THE FIRmI AND STYLE OF BENEDICT & BENEDICT.
The laws of Mfississippi direct that, where the insolvency of the estate of a deceased
person shall be reported to the Orphans' Court, that court shall order a sale of the
property, and distribute the proceeds thereof amongst the creditors pro rata, and
that in the mean time no execution shall issue upon a judgment obtained against
such insolvent estate.
A judgment obtained against the administrator before the declaration by the Orphans'
Court of the insolvency of the estate, is not, upon that account, entitled Xoa preference; but must share in the general distribution.
But this court expresses no opinion as to the right of State legislation to compel
foreign creditors, in all cases, to seek their remedy against the estates of decedents
in the State courts alone, to the exclusion of the jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States.
THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United

States, for the Northern District of Mississippi, sitting as a court
of equity.
The appellant, Thomas Williams, was complainant below, in
a bill setting forth, that letters of administration on the estate
of Benjamin J. Baldwin, deceased, were granted to him in October, 1838. That at the time he entered upon said administration and made an inventory of the estate, he confidently believed that his intestate's estate would be amply sufficient to
satisfy all his creditors. That at November term, 1839, the
respondents obtained a judgment against him in the District
Court of the United States, for a debt due to them b4y the intestate. That the complainant, having then discovered that
the estate would not be sufficient to pay the debts of the deceased, suggested its insolvency to the Probate Court Qn the
first Monday of December following; whereupon the court ad-

