•566

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Ball.

Joseph' Berry, except the eighth. We direct that our rulings
in that case shall be sent to the Circuit Court, as our answers to
the points certified in this case. And further rule to the eighth
point certified in this case, that the defendants, having paid to
the grantees of George De Grasse a valuable consideration for
the premises in dispute, do not thereby acquire a valid title
against the plaintiffs.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice CATRON and Mr.
Justice NELSON dissented. See the report of the preceding
case.

CHARLES A. WILLIAMSON AND CATHARINE H. WILLIAMSON, HIS
WIFE, RUPERT J. COCHRAN AND ISABELLA M., Is WIFE, AND
BAYARD CLARKE, PLAINTIFFS, v. GEORGE BALL.
The principles established in the case of Williamson and Wife v. Berry applied to
this case also.
Under the acts of the Legislature of New York for the relief of Thomas B. Clarke,
the Chancellor had no authority to order that the trustee might make a conveyance
of any part of the premises devised for a precedent debt due by the trustee to his
grantee.
The deed executed by Clarke to Cbrystie in this case was not made in the due execution of the power and authority to sell and convey, though approved by the
master in conformity with the Chancellor's order, it not having been within the
Chancellor's jurisdiction to order that the trustee might make a conveyance o the
premises to a creditor in payment of the debt.
Although the defendant in this case may have paid to such a grantee a valuable
consideration, yet he cannot be said to haye acquired any title against the plaintiffs ; inasmuch as Clarkh had no lawful authority to convey to his grantee, that
grantejd had no right to convey to another.

THIS case was similar to the two preceding ones in all the
leading facts. It will be perceived, however, that all the children of Thomas B. Clarke now united as plaintiffs.
Upon the trial in the court below, the will of Mary Clarke,
the acts of the Legislature of the State of New York, the orders of the Chancellor of that State, and other facts, were shown,
as in the case of Charles A. Williamson and Wife v. Joseph
Berry.
It further appeared in evidence, that on the 8th of December,
1818, Mr. Clarke conveyed the lot in question, with other lots,
to Albert Chrystie, reciting that 11the said Thomas B. .Clarke
is justly indebted to the said Albert Chrystie in the sum of
$ 525, and is willing to convey in satisfaction of such debt
the premises hereinafter mentioned and described"; and de-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

567

Williamson et al. v. Ball.

claring, "that the said Thomas B. Clarke, in consideration of
the premises, and of $ 525 to him in hand paid," conveys, &c.
This deed was approved by James A. Hamilton, master in
chancery.
There was also a quitclaim executed by him, he
having acquired a title to Mr. Clarke's life estate, under a sale
upon execution.
A conveyance from Mr. Chrystie to James Covell, from
Covell to John R. Driver, and the will of Driver, were also
shown.
A verdict was taken for the plaintiffs, sujject to the opinion
of the court, upon a case. On the argument, the judges ruled
as stated in Williamson v. Berry, and were divided in opinion
upon the following points: 1. Whether the authority given by the said acts of the Legislature to the trustee, to sell the estate, was a special power,
to be strictly pursued, or whether he acquired the absolute
power of alienation, subject only to review and account in
equity.
2. Whether the orders set forth in the case, made by the
Chancellor in this behalf, were authorized by, and in conformity
to, the said several acts of the Legislature, and are to be regarded as the acts of the Court of Chancery, empowered to proceed
as such, or the doings of an officer, acting under a special authority.
3. Whether the Chancellor had competent authority, under
the said acts, to order or allow a conveyance of the premises by
the trustee, in payment or satisfaction of a precedent debt owing
by the trustee to the grantee.
4. Whether the deed executed by Thomas B. Clarke to
Albert Chrystie, stated in the case, was in due execution of the
power and authority of said trustee.
5. Whether the defendant, deriving title by purchase bond
fide, and for a valuable consideration, from such grantee, has a
valid title against the plaintiffs.
It was argued in conjunction with the case of Williamson and Wife v. Berry, as was stated in the report of that case.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
In tlis case Thomas B. Clarke made a conveyance of the
premises in dispute to Albert Chrystie for a debt, of $ 525; arid
the approval of the master in chancery is indorsed upon the
deed. The plaintiff objected to it as any evidence of title, on
account of its having been made without authority of law.
Chrystie conveyed the premises in dispute to James Covell,
for th6 consideration of six hundred dollars. Covell and wife

568

,SUPREME

COURT.

Williamson et al. v. Ball.

conveyed the same to John R. Driver for eight hundred dollars. Driver died, having devised the premises to his executors,
Nicholas Zelpen and George Deroche.
In the course of the trial of the cause in the Circuit Court,
the judges thereof were divided in opinion upon five points of
la:w, and have certified them to this court for decision.
The first and second points certified in this cause have been
'decided, by this court, in its ruling of the second and third
points in the case of Williamson and Wife v. Joseph Berry.
We direct, that -those rulings of the second and third points in
the case just mentioned shall be taken as the answers given by
,this court to the first and second points in this case.
. To the third point in this case, we rule, that the Chancellor
had authoxity, under the acts passed for the relief of Thomas B.
Clarke, to assent to a -conveyance of the premises in dispute
by his trustee, but that it was not within the jurisdiction given
to
9 the Chancellor by the acts of the State of New York mentibned in this case, to order that the trustee might make a conveyance of any part of the *premises devised, as is mentioned in
this case, for a precedent debt due by the trustee to his grantee.
To. the fourth point, we rule, that the deed executed by
Clarke to-Chrystie was not made in the due execution of the
power and authority to sell and convey, though approved by
the master in conformity with the Chancellor's order, it not'
hav'ing been within the Chancellor's jurisdiction to order that
the trustee might make a conveyance of the premises to a
cKditor in payment of the debt.
To the fifth point; which is, whether the defendant, deriving
t'itle by purchase bondfide and for a valuable consideration from
such grantee, has a valid title against the plaintiffs, we ansWer, that, though the defefndant may have paid to such a
grantee a valuable consideration, he cannot be said to have acquired any title against the plaintiffs; inasmuch as Clarke had
no lawful authority to convey to his grantee, that grantee had
no right to convey to another.
We direct the foregoing rulings to be certified to the Circuit
0ourt, as the answers of this court to the points certified to it
for decision.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice CATRON, and Mr.
Justice NELSON dissented. - See the report of the case of
Williamson and Wife v. Berry.

