384

SUPREME COURT.
Gibson v. Stevens.

Court, and to remand this cause to the said District Court, with
directi6ns to that court to award a venire facias de novo, and
for further proceedings to be had therein in conformity to the
opinion of this court.

EDDiuND T. H. GI.soN,

PLAINTIFF IN EiROR,
STEVENS, DEFENDANT.

V.

BRADFORD

B.

Where personal property is, from its character or situation at the time of the.sale,
incapable of actual delivery, the delivery of the bill of sale, or other evidence of
title, is sufficient to transfer the property and possession to the vendee.
Where articles of commerce were purchased in the State of Indiana, and the vendors, in whose warehouses they were lying, gave a written memorandum of the
sal6,'with a receipt for the money, and an engagement to deliver them on board of
canal-boats soon after the opening of canal navigation, these documents transferred the property and the possession of the articles to the purchasers.
These documents, being indorsed and delivered to a merchant in New York, in consideration of advances of money in the usual course of trade, transferred to him
the legal title and constructive possession of the property.
Therefore, an attachment subsequently issued, at the instance of a creditor of the
original purchasers, which was levied upon the property in question, could not he
maintained.
This court will judicially recognize this branch of trade. It has existed long
enough to assume a regular form of dealing, and its ordinary course and usages
are now publicly known and understood.
The New York merchant stood in the position of an actual purchaser to the extent
of his advances, and not in that of a factor who had made advances upon goods
in his possession.
A guarantee by the first sellers that the articles should pass inspection did not
cange the original sale into an executory contract. It was nothing more than
- the usual warranty of the soundness of the goods sold.

T~is case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the. District of Indiana.
It was an action of replevin brought by Gibson, a citizen
of New York, against Stevens, the sheriff of Allen County,
Indiana, who had in his custody sundry articles of property
which he had taken by virtue of a writ of foreign attachment,
issued under the State laws of Indiana.
The facts in the case were agreed upon by the counsel in
the Circuit Court as follows.
Be it remembered, that at the, May term of said court, A. D.
1844, the above cause was submitted to the decision of the
court, without the intervention of a jury, upon the following
agreed facts, to wit: The parties mutually agree that the following are the facts
McQueen & McKay, citizens of the city
in this case: -That
of Detroit, State of Michigan, about the 20th of March, 1844,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

385

Gibson v. Stevens.

by false pretences, fraudulently procured the branch of the
State Bank of Indiana, at Indianapolis, to loan to them the sum
of about eleven thousand dollars. The money thus loaned
consisted of notes of the Indianapolis branch of said State
Bank of Indiana, payable to bearer, and transferable by delivery. With part of the money thus obtained, McQueen &
McKay purchased of Hanna, Hamilton, & Co. three hundred
and fifty barrels of mess pork, for the sum of $ 2,908.50, and
at the same time paid to the said Hanna, Hamilton, & Co. 'the
said purchase-money; and thereupon the said Hanna, Hamilton,
& Co. executed and delivered to the said McQueen & McKay
the memorandum of said purchase, receipt, and guarantee thereto appended; which are herewith filed and marked A, and
made a part of this agreement, and are in the words and figures
following, to wit:"Fort Wayne, April 4, 1844.
"Messrs. McQueen & McKay,
"Bought of Hanna, Hamilton, & Co.
"350 barrels mess pork, to be delivered on
board of canal-boats soon after the opening of

$ 2,908.50

canal navigation, at $ 8.31

"Received payment in full,
"HANNA,

HAmLTON, & Co.

"We guarantee the inspection of the above pork at Toledo,
and the delivery on board of canal-boats at this place, soon after
the opening of canal navigation.
"1HANNA, HAmILToN, & Co.

"Fort Wayne, April 4, 1844."
The said barrels of pork were, at time of said sale to McQueen & McKay, lying in the warehouse of said Hanna,,
Hamilton, & Co., in the town of Fort Wayne, in the State
of Indiana, about twenty feet from the Wabash and Erie Canal,
marked and branded "Mess Pork," together with a large number of other barrels of pork, marked and branded-" Prime Pork,"
and "Clear Pork."
Said three hundred and fifty barrels being all the mess pork
in said warehouse at that time, or at any other time since, and
all the barrels marked "Mess Pork," but were not seen by
McQueen & McKay. Said barrels of prime, clear, and mess
pork laid in said warehouse promiscuously, and so remained up
to, and at, the time of the assignment of said writing marked
A; but after the assignment, and before the levying the attachment- hereinafter mentioned, said Hanna, Hamilton, & Co. had,
VOL. VIII.

33

386

SUPREME COURT.
Gibson v. Stevens.

,shipped off all of the said barrels of pork marked and branded
'"Prime Pork" and "Clear Pork."
Said McQueen & McKay, at the same time, purchased of
D. & J. A. F. Nichols, of Fort Wayne, Indiana, two hundred
barrels of superfine flour, for the sum of $ 712.50, and at the
same time paid the said D. & J. A. F. Nichols the said purchase-moniey; and thereupon said D. & J. A. F. Nichols executed and delivered to said McQueen & McKay a memorandum of said purchase, receipt, and guarantee, in the words and
figures following, to wit: "Fort Wayne, April 4th, 1844.
"Messrs. McQueen & McKay,
"Bought of D. & J. A. F. Nichols.
"Two hundred barrels of superfine flour, at $ 3.56k, $ 712.50
"Received, Fort Wayne, April 4th, 1844, payment in full..
"D. & J. A. F. NICHOLS. "Received the above' flour in store, at Fort Wayne, April
4th, 1844, which we agree to deliver on board of canal-boats
here, soon after the opening of the navigation, subject to the
order of McQueen & McKay.
"D. & J. A. F. NICHOLS.
"We guarantee the inspection of the above flour in New
York as superfine flour.
D. & J. A. F. NIcdnLS."
Which-are herewith filed and marked B, and are part of this
agreement. Said barrels of flour were, at the time of said sale,
lying in the warehouse .of said D. & J. A. F. Nichols, in the
town of Fort Wayne, Indiana, on-the bank of the Wabash and
Erie Canal, and there remained until they were seized and
taken under the attachment hereinafter mentioned. Said purchases -were both made in the town of Fort Wayne, in the
county of Allen, in the said State of Indiana, on the 4th day
of April," 1844.
On the 17th day of April, 1844, said McQueen & McKay
presented the said memorandums of purchase, receipts, and
guarantees thereto appended, as above set forth, and marked A
and B, to the said Gibson, in the city of New York, and re-quested of said Gibson an advancement upon the flour and
por-k therein, mentioned; whereupon the said Gibson did advance to the said McQueen & McKay, on the faith of said flour
and pork, and the evidences of title thereto, the gum of$ 2,7-87.50,
and took froni said McQ(uen & McKay an assignment of said

JANUARY TERM

1850.

87

Gibson v. Stevens.

memorandums of purchase, receipts, and guarantees, respectively, indorsed on the back of each in the words and figures
following, to wit:"Deliver the within two hundred barrels of flour to E. T.
H. Gibson, or order.
"oMCQUEEN

& MCKAY."

" New York, April 17, 1844.
"Deliver the within 350 barrels of pork to E. T. H. Gibson,
or order.
MCQUEN & MCKAY."

Which are also part of this agreement.
Said McQueen & McKay, at the same time, delivered to the
said Gibson the original memorandums of purchase, receipts,
and guarantees above set forth, and marked A and B; in whose
possession they now remain.
At the same time i&Q~ueen & McKay wrote, signed, and
delivered to said Gibson, the letter which is herewith filed,
marked C, and made a part of this agreement; and is in the
words and figures following, to wit: " New York, 17th April, 1844.
"L
MESSRS. LUDLOW & BABCOCK, Toledo :"Gentlemen, - We have this day received an advance from
E. T. H. Gibson, Esq., on the following lots of lork, which
you will have the goodness to deliver to his order, and to comply with his instructions relative to the shipment, to wit: 365 bbls. mess pork, Zfrom warehouse of Walker, Roger, & Co.
og
225 do. prime do.
11 do. mess do. from warehouse of Benbridge & Mix.
Hamilton & Williams..
do.
300 do. do. do. do.
Hanna, Hamilton, & Co.
do.
350 do. do. do. do.
200 do. flour, from warehouse of D. & J. A. P. Nichols.
"Respectfully, Gentlemen, your obedient servants.
"M QUEEN & MCKAY."
On the 18th day of April, 1844, Gibson inclosed the letter
above referred to in another letter written by himself, directed
to Mott & Co., at Toledo, Ohio, and mailed the same on the
said 18th day of April, 1844, in the post-office in the city .of
New York; which said letter, with the inclosure," said Mott &
Co. received by due course of mail, and handed said inclosed
letter, as requested by said Gibson, to Ludlow & Babcock, at
Toledo, Ohio.
Said Gibson also, on the said 18th day of April, 1844,

388

SUPREME

COURT.

Gibson v. Stevens.

mailed, in the post-office in the city of New York, a letter
written -by himself, and directed to said Ludlow & Babcock, at
Toledo, Ohio, which said*Ludlow & Babcock received by due
course of mail; which letter is herewith filed, marked D, and
made a part of this agreement; and is in the words and figures
following, to wit: ", New York, April 17, 1844.
"MEssnS. LUDLOW & BABcocK, Toledo, Ohio :"Gentlemen,I have this day made McQueen & McKay,
of Detroit, an advanice on twelve hundred and fifty-one barrels
of pork, and two hundred barrels of flour, which is stored at
different points on the line of the Wabash Canal, and which
they state is to be shipped to your care, and held by you at
Toledo, until you receive instructions from them respecting it.
They have given me an order on you for it, which I have sent
to Mott & Co. I wish you to ship the pork and flour to me
immediately on its arrival at Toledo, at the lowest possible
rates of freight, and, send me a bill of lading of the same.
There is one lot of three hundred barrels of pdrk in Hamilton
& Williams's warehouse, on which there is due from McQueen
& McKay, on its arrival at your place, $ 550.00. This amount
you may draw on me for, so soon as I receive bill of lading of
the pork. Let me hear from you by return mail respecting it.
"I remain truly and respectfully yours.
"E. T. H. GIBSON."
At the time of the assignment of said memorandums of purchases, receipts, and guarantees, said Gibson-was a commission
merchant in said city of New York, in the State of New York,
and it was usual and customary -for commission merchants,
residing and doing business in the city of New York, to make
advances on Western produce, upon the assignment of the
proper evidences of title thereto.
On the 23d of April, 1844, said Gibson, having on that day
learned that McQ.ueen & McKay had suffered some of their
bills to be protested for non-payment, despatched one William
Hoyt to the town of Fort Wayne, aforesaid, to see to the shipping of said pork and flour; and the said Hoyt arrived at said
-town of Fort Wayne on the 29th day of April, 1844, for that
purpose, having in his possession the said writings niarked A
and B.
At the time of the assignment of said writings marked A and
B, the said Wabash and Erie Canal was navigable at and from
the said town of Fort Wayne to the said town of Toledo.
On the 27th day of April. 1844, a writ of attachment issued

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

389

Gibson v. Stevens.

from the Allen Circuit Court, in the State of Indiana, in due
form of law, at the instance and in the name of the State LB4nk
of Indiana, against the goods and chattels, lands and tenements,
of the said McQueen & McKay (William McQueen and James
McKay)'; which said writ of attachment, and all the proceedings in and about the issuing of the same, are admitted to have
been regular; and the production of the same, and of the record
thereof, is hereby waived.
This said writ was directed to the defendant in this suit, who
then was, ind still is, sheriff of said county of Allen, and came
to his possession as such sheriff on the said 27th day of April,
1844; on which said 27th day of April, 1844, the sheriff aforesaid, by virtue of said writ of attachment, levied upon, seized,
and took into his possession the said pork and flour described in
said writings, marked A and B, the return day of which said
writ has not yet elapsed. And it is also agreed, that the proceedings of the said sheriff in executing the writ of attachment
were, in all respects, regular. (It is not, however, admitted by
the plaintiff, that the property levied on was, at the time levied
on, or at any time since, the property of the said McQueen &
McKay, or that McQueen & McKay had an attachable interest therein.) And that the defendant shall have the full benefit
of all the proceedings in the said attachment, in the same manner as though the record thereof was produced before this
court. And it is further agreed, that the said sheriff kept and
retained the possession of the said flour and pork, so levied on
by said writ of attachment, until the same was replevied out of
his possession, by virtue of the writ of replevin in this case.
The said writ of attachment was issued and sued out for the
purpose of coercing the payment of the said money,. obtained
by the said McQueen & McKay, as above stated.
It is further admitted by the parties that the said pork and
flour are of the value mentioned in the affidavit of William
Hoyt, now on'fie in this court, on which said writ of replevin
was issued.
The said Ludlow & Babcock were, on the 17th day of
April, 1844; the forwarding merchants of the said McQ.ueen &
McKay, at Toledo, Ohio, one hundred and four miles from
Fort Wayne; and that MNlott & Co. were, on the same day, the
forwarding merchants of said Gibson at same place, Toledo.
It was understood between the said Gibson and the said
McQueen & McKay, at the time of said assignment of said
writings marked A and B, that the said Gibson should sell the
said pork and flour, and after retaining his said advancement
and his legal commission, and interest and outlays, pay the
33*

290

SUJPREME COURT.
Gibson v. Stevens.

remainder of the proceeds of said pork and flour to said
.McQueen & McKay, according to the usage and custom of
commission merchants. The pork and flour mentioned in said
writings, marked A and B, and that levied upon by virtue of
said attachment, and that replevied by virtue of said writ of
replevin, in this cause issued, and purchased by McQueen &
McKay with the money obtained from said bank, as aforesaid,
are the same pork and flour, and not other or different. The
said levy, seizure, or detention of said pork and flou happened
at and within the county of Allen, in the State of Indiana; a
legal demand was made before the commencement of this suit,
and after the said levy, upon the defendant, by said Hoyt, as
the agent of said Gibson, for the said pork and flour, and the
said defendant refused to surrender the same. The said Gibson
was, at the time of the commencement of this suit, and still is,
a citizen of the State of New York, and the defendant a citizen
of the State of Indiana.
The said advancement, so made by said Gibson, corresponds
with the usual advancing rates of commission merchants in the
said city of New York, at the time of said advancement.
The said writ of attachment was levied on the said property
at the instance of the said branch of said' State Bank of Indiana; and it was known to the State Bank of Indiana at the
time of, and before, the levy of said writ of attachment, that
the said loan had been procured from her said branch at Indianapolis'fraudulently, by said McQueen & McKay, and that the
said McQueen & McKay had invested the said money, so
obtained, in the purchase of said pork and flour, and that said
attachment is still pending; and that the original bills on which
said money was obtained fell due after the levy under said
attachment; and that none of said bills, on which said money
was obtained, or any part thereof, have ever been paid, but
were at maturity protested for non-payment.
It is also admitted, if the court should consider the circumstance legitimate or material, which the defendant denies, that
in 1843 the said McQueen & McKay, and said Gibson, had a
similar transaction in New York, in which the' said McQueen
& McKay acted with integrity, but with which the bank or
the other parties had no connection.
Upon this case stated, the Circuit Court gave judgment for
the defendant in replevin. The counsel for the plaintiff took
an exception, and brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Romeyn and 1r. Wood, for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Bright (in a printed argument), for
the defendant in error.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

391

Gibson v. Stevens.

Pointsfor the Plaintiff.
I. The attachment was prematurely brought. Because, 1. The loan of its bills by the bank to McQ u eh& McKay
was pn an express agreement. for credit; which agreement, if
procured by fraud, was not'void, but voidable, by the bank at
its option. Chitty on Cont. 678; Story on Sales, %§ 420, 447,
and cases cited; Galloway v. Holmes, 1 Doug. (Mich.)336;
Rowley v. Bigelow, 12 Pick. 307.
2. There being an express contract for a loan on time, if the
bank elected to consider it fraudulent and to sue immediately,
the action should have been in tort. Story on Sales, § 432,
434, 442, 446, and cases cited there; Jones v. Hoar, 5 Pick.
285; Willett v. Willett, 3 Watts, 277; Cary v. Curtis, 3 Howard, 247, 248.
3. The remedy by foreign attachment in Indiana is confined
to cases of debts due on contract and shown by affidavit; and
the institution of such a suit was an affirmance of the contract
of loan; and, inasmuch as the stipulated term of credit had not
expired, the action was prematurely brought. Code of Indiana
of 1843, pp. 762, 763, 772, 773; Lindon v. Hooper, Cowp.
418; Ferguson v. Carrington, 3 Carr. & Payne, 457, at Nisi Prius; same case in Bench, 9 Barn. & Cres. 59. This case is cited
as law by Starkie, 2 Ev. 55; 1 Chitty on Pl. 157; 1 Com. on
Cont. 221; Dutton v. Solomonson, 3 Bos. & Pul. 585; 15 Mass.
80, note a; Galloway v. Holmes, 1 Doug. (Mich.) 334.
In the present case, the question is not whether the bank had
a right to disaffirm; but whether, by bringing this action, she
did not in fact affirm the express contract.
The authofities cited show the general doctrine of the common law to be, that promises in law exist only in the absence
of promises in. fact; that where there is an express contract, suing in assumpsit is an affirmance of it; that in those cases in
which it has been held that assumpsit would lie immediately
on discovery of the fraud, there was a debt due, in prevsenti,
either by an express precedent contract, or by the absence of
any agreement for credit; or the contract was incapable of confirmation and absolutely void, through illegality, or as being
contrary to public policy.
It is further contended, that the attachment of the pork and
flour, as the property of McQueen & McKay, was an affirmance of the contract with them. Campbell v. Fleming, 1
Adolph. & Ell. 40; Selway v. Fogg, 5 Mees. & Wels. 86;
Thompson v. Morris, 2 Murphy, 248; Dingley v. Robinson, 5
Greenl. 127; Hanna v. Mills, 21 Wend. 90; Ibid. 175.
A party cannot claim in repugnant rights, and is concluded

392

SUPREME COURT.
Gibson v. Stevens.

by the form of his action. Smith v. Hodson, 4 Term Rep.
217.
4. The retention of the bills of exchange, given by McQueen
& McKay, as well as the form of the action, was an affirmance
of the contract of loan. Tobey v. Barber, 5 Johns. 72; Dayton v. Trull, 23 Wend. 346.; Thomas v. Todd, 6 Hill, 341;
Masson v. Bovet, 1 Denio, 74; Story on Sales, § 427.
II. The bank, under her attachment, had no right, as against
Gibson, to claim the pork and flour as the specific proceeds of
her bills, on the ground of the alleged fraud of McQ.ueen &
McKay in procuring them. Because, 1. She attached it as the property of McQueen & McKay,
and for the benefit of their general creditors. If trover had
been brought, the alleged fraud would have been disputed.
2. Having voluntarily parted with the possession and ostensible ownership of her bills, she cannot claim them or their
avails from a bond fide purchaser. Parker v. Patrick, 5 Term
Rep. 175; Mowrey v. Walsh, 8 Cowen, 238; Root v. French,
13 Wend. 572; Hoffman v. Noble, 6 Metcalf, 68; Story on
Sales, § 200, and cases cited there.
III. The flour in the custody of Hanna, Hamilton, & Co.,
and the pork in the hands of D. & 3. A. F. Nichols, were the
legal property of McQueen & McKay, at the time of the
transfer thereof by them to Gibson, the plaintiff; and said McQueen & McKay held, at the time of the attachment, the beneficial interest only in the residue of the proceeds of sale thereof, to be made by Gibson, when the property reached him, after satisfying his advance thereon, with commissions and all
other charges.
IV. McQueen & Mi Kay acquired a vested legal title in said
pork and flour, by their purchases. The bills of sale being
their muniments of title, also a constructive possession thereof,
the property remaining in the custody of the respective vendors,
as their bailees. Because, 1. The sale was a perfect vested sale, and not an executory
agreement to sell at a future period. Martindale v. Smith, 1
Adolph. & Ell. (N. S.) 389 (41 Cond. Com. Law, 595).
2. The bills of sale purport to pass a present vested interest,
and they were delivered to McQueen & McKay.' The payment of the purchase-money bound the bargain, and passed at
once the legal title to them. Barret v. Goddard, 3 Mason, 110.
3. Whenever there is a present vested sale, valid in law, and
the property sold is left with the vendor, he holds it in custody
as bailee for the purchaser. Elmore v. Stone, 1 Taunton, 157;
Bailey v. Ogdens, 3 Johns. 416; Dixon v. Yates, 5 Barn. &
Adolph. 314.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

393

Gibson v. Stevens.

4. The pork and flour were sufficiently identified and distinguishable from all other property, there being no other pork in
the warehouse, and the flour being marked. Barret v. Goddard,
3 Mason, 107; Pleasants v. Pendleton, 6 Rand. 473; Swanwick v. Sothern, 9 Adolph. & Ell. 895.
5. This construction is confirmed by the condition of the
property at the time, and the general, well-established usage of
trade in regard to it; which usage is to leave such produce in
the warehouse till the opening of navigation, the warehouseman being in the mean time the bailee of the owner; and for
the oxner to get an advance thereon from the Eastern merchant, and to transfer the same to secure the advance: he to
sell the same on commission.
6. The delivery on board of canal-boats provided for, was a
delivery as bailee for the purpose of transmission. The guarantee of inspection at Toledo was a warranty of tuality, to be
tested after sale, and it was not preliminary to the sale.
V. McQueen & McKay passed the entire legal title in said
produce to the plaintiff, together with the beneficial interest, to
the extent of his advance thereon, and gave him the constructive possession. Because, 1. The condition of said produce was such as not to admit
of actual delivery at the time, and it was in accordance with
the course of business and the usage -of trade to leave it with
the warehouseman in the West.
2. The -delivery order, according to the weight of authority,
was sufficient of itself to pass the title to Gibson, on making the
advance, before its presentment and acceptance.
3. But if not, the delivery to Gibson of the muniments of
title, viz. the bills of sale, was sufficient for that purpose, especially when accompanied with a delivery order. Hollingsworth v. Napier, 3 Gaines, 182; Wilkes v. Ferris, 5 Johns. 338;
Bailey v. Johnson, 9 Cowen, 115; Lucas v. Dorrien, 7 Taunt.
279; Greaves v. Hepke, 2 Barn. & Ald. 131; Pleasants v. Pendleton, 6 Rand. 473; Ricker v. Gross, 5 N. Hamp. 571; Ingraham v. Wheeler, 6 Conn. 277; Atkinson v. Maling; 2 Term
Rep. 465; Brown v. Heatheote, 1 Atk. 162; Gardner v. Howland, 2 Pick. 599; Story on Sales, § 311; 2 Kent, 500.
4. It was sufficient for the plaintiff to give notice of his purchases in a reasonable time to the respective bailees of the
property, so as to exempt himself from the imputation of laches;
which notice was given in this case. Putnam v. Dutch, 8
Mass. 290; Meeker v. Wilson, I Gall. 419; 5 N. Hamp. 571;
6 Conn. 277.
5. The effect of the whole was to give the plaintiff the legal

394

SUPREME COURT.
Gibson v. Stevens.

title in the produce, and not a mere lien thereon, or a mere
pledge of the property; and this is the effect whether the transfer be governed by the law of New York (which is properly
applicable to it), or by the law of Indiana. Story on Conflict
of Laws, % 316 to 325; Black v.. Zacharie, 3 Howard, 512.
VI. If Gibson be considered as not having the entire legal
title, but as a pledgee to the amount of his advances, he is pro
tanto to be considered and protected as a purchaser. Story on
'Bailments, § 297; Story on Agency, § 361; Lickbarrow v.
Mason, 2 Term Rep. 63; Root v. French, 13 Wend. 572; Holbrook v. Wight, 24 Wend. 169; Hoffman v. Noble, 6 Metc.
69; Story on Agency, § 111.
VII. The legal title of the plaintiff in said produce is not
superseded or divested by the levy of the attachment on the
property. Because, 1. The bank was not a bonafide purchaser. The attachment
amounted only to an assignment in invitum by operation of
law, and for the benefit of the creditors at large, as well as for
the attaching creditor. , Indiana Code, 1843, pp. 762-775;
Lempriere v. Pasley, 2 Term Rep. 485; 1 Atk. 160; Nathan
v. Giles, 5 Taunton, 558; United States v. Vaughan, 3 Bin.
394; Ingraham v. Wheeler, 6 Conn. 277; Ricker v. Cross,
5 N. Ramp. 571; Portland Bank v. Stacey, 4 Mass. 663; Putnam v. Dutch, 8 Mass. 287; Badlam v. Tucker, 1 Pick. 389;
Gardner v. Howland, 2 Pick. 604; Arnold v. Brown, 24 Pick.
95; note to Lanfear v. Sumner, 17 Mass. 114.
2. If the bank had been a bond fide purchaser of said produce
of McQueen & McKay, instead of being attaching creditors,
such purchase would not divest the plaintiff of his title, which
is a legal title, with a constructive possession, fairly acquired and
unaccompanied with any laches in notifying the bailee thereof,
or in reducing the same to actual possession, according to the
course of trade; such a legal title, being prior in time, is prior
in right. See cases cited under last proposition; also Caldwell
v. Ball, 1 Term Rep. 205; Tuxworth v. Moore, 9 Pick. 348;
Joy v. Sears, 9 Pick. 4; Turner v. Coolidge, 2 Metc. 351;
3 Mason, 114; Meeker'v. Wilson, 1 Gall. 422; Phillemore v.
Barry, 1 Camp. 563.
The cases do not turn on the question of notice to an attaching creditor, t~ut whether there has been such a delay in taking
actual possession as to furnish evidence of fraud.
3. If the attachment had the character of a purchase, it
would not be bond fide and without notice, within the reason
of the rule, because McQueen & McKay were out of possession,
actual or constructive, which put the purchaser upon inquiry,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

395

Gibson v. Stevens.

and amounted to constructive notice of the prior legal transfer
to the plaintiff. Lucas v. Dorrien, 7 Taunt. 278; 1 Gall. 422.
4. The bank, therefore, under the circumstances, took only
the interest of McQueen & McKay then existing, and subject
to all equitable, a's well as legal, interests then outstanding
against it.
. VIII. The only interest of McQueen & McKay was the
equitable beneficial interest in the residue of the proceeds of
the produce when sold by the plaintiff on the consignment to
him, after satisfying thereout his advances and charges on
sales, which alone .was attachable, and which did not warrant
the officer in taking the property. Story on Bailments, § 353,
and cases cited; .Badlam v. Tucker, 1 Pick. 399; Indiana
Code, § 383, p. 744, and § 39, p. 770; Evans v. Darlington,
5 Blackf.320.
IX. The rights of the plaintiff are not weakened by his having purchased the property out of the State of Indiana, to be
sent and: sold in New York, according to the course of trade.
Blake v. Williams, 6 Pick. 307-314; Black v. Zacharie, 3
Howard, 514.
X. If there had been any danger that the plaintiff would
have absconded with the property, to the injury of the equitable
lien of the bank and other creditors, acquired by the attachment, (which is not shown or pretended,) their remedy would
then have been in equity only.
IX. The warehouse receipt accompanying the transfer to
Gibson was equivalent, under the usage of trade, to a bill of
lading, and its transfer divested all outstanding title unknown1
to Gibson, whether legal or equitable. Because, 1. Such instruments are assignable. Indiana Code, p. 576;
Laws of New York of 1830, p. 203, § 5; 2 Rev, Stat. p. 60.
2. The case states that it was usual and customary to make
advances on the assignment of proper evidences of title. Noble
v. Kennoway, 1 Doug. 512; Zwinger v. Samuda, 7 Taunt.
265; Lucas v. Dorrien, Ibid. 288; Barton v. Baddington, 1 Car.
& Payne, 207; Keyser v. Suse, Gowv, 58.
The argument filed on behalf of the defendant in error was
an elaborate support of the following points: 1. If Gibson's claim be in the nature of a lien, he cannot recover, unless he, or his agent for the purpose expressly authorized, had the actual possession of the pork and flour before the
attachment was levied. Under the circumstances of this case,
a constructive possession cannot be conferred, for the following
reasons: - 1. Because the bills of parcels, &c., in this cause, do

396

SUPREME COURT.
Gibson v. Stevens.

not amount to warehouse receipts; for instance, the memorandum of Hanna, Hamilton, & Co. is a mere receipted bill of parcels, and a guarantee of the inspection of the pork at Toledo;
it does not even acknowledge the pork to be in store. Should
the pork and flour not pass inspection, MVIcQueen & McKay
would not be bound to accept them. The bills of parcels, with
their indorsements, &c., amount to nothing more than mere orders to deliver the pork and flour to Gibson; and until the Nicholses, and Hanna, Hamilton, & Co., were presented with such
orders, and they h~d accepted the same, and assented to hold
the pork and flour for Gibson, as his agents, his lien could not
attach; and the attachment having been sued out, and levied on
the pork and flour in question before they received orders in favor of Gibson, the attaching lien of the State Bank must prevail. 2. Although. the memoranda may be considered as warehouse receipts, yet, there being no legislative enactment or
usage in New York making the transfer and delivery thereof
to confer a constructive possession of the pork and flour, their
transfer and delivery to Gibson cannot have that effect. 3. Although, by the laws of New York, these memoranda might confer a constructive possession on Gibson, yet, as the pork and
flour were, at the time of the delivery of those memoranda to
Gibson, at Fort Wayne, in Indiana, the transaction must be
governed by. the laws of Indiana. In Indiana we have no law,
or usage, giving such force to warehouse receipts.
2. Although Gibson should be regarded as an absolute purchaser, yet, as the attachment was levied upon the pork and
fl6ur before he or any agent of his had actual possession of
them, Gibson cannot recover. A fortiori if Gibson's claim be
only a lien.
3. If the pork and flour be regarded as a security to Gibson,
for the repayment of the advance, nevertheless, as neither Gibson nor any agent of his had the actual possession of the pork
and flour before they were attached, nor had the instruments
by which his lien on the pork, and flour was created been recorded in Allen county, Indiana, (the place where ihe pork and
flour were,) within ten days, according to the Rev. Stat. of Indiana, 1843, p. 590, see. 10, such- assignment to Gibson is void
as to the State Bank.
4. Whether Gibson's right be regarded as a lien on, or a purchase of, the pork and flour, still, as neither Gibson nor any
agent of his, had the actual possession thereof, before the attachment was levied, Gibson cannot recover.
5. If Gibson be regarded a "dee m ed pro tanto purchaser,"
McQueen & McKay fn-ust be regarded as owners of the residue.

JANUAR Y TERM, 1850.

397

Gibson v. Stevens.

This condition of things necessarily makes Gibson and McQueen & McKay tenants in common of the pork and flour. If
this be true, (which we regard as unquestionable, if Gibson be
a ".ro tanto purchaser,") the interest of McQueen & McKay
in the pork and flour is attachable, and the officer attaching
can, by virtue of the attachment, take the whole of the pork
and flour, even out of the actual possession of Gibson, and deliver it over to the purchaser, and Gibson cannot replevy them
from the officer or the purchaser under the attachment.
6. If Gibson's right be only a lien, although such lien may
have attached oft the pork and flour before the attachment of
the State Bank was levied thereon, nevertheless the interest of
McQueen & McKay therein is attachable.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is one of much interest, and has been very fully
argued. There is, however, but a single question in it, and
that is, whether the property in dispute was transferred to the
plaintiff in error, and vested in him, by the indorsement and
delivery of the warehouse documents in the manner stated in
the record.
The fact that McQueen & McKay by fraudulent means obtained the money from the bank, with which they purchased
the pork and flour, is not material in the decision of this question. The bank in these proceedings does not claim the property as its own, upon the ground that it was purchased with
money fraudulently obtained from it. If it had intended to assert its title as owner, it should have proceeded by some appropriate action to recover the property itself, or the value of it in
damages. But the bank presents itself in the character of a
creditor, seeking to collect its debt by an attachment against
the property of its debtor. And the claims of both parties,
plaintiff and defendant, rest upon the admission that the pork
and flour were the property of McQueen & McKay, and had
been left by them in the custody of the warehousemen as their
bailees.
We are not, therefore, called upon to decide whether the
owner of money fraudulently obtained from him can follow
the proceeds in the hands of a bon .fidepurchaser without notice, and in the usual course of trade. As this question is not
in the case, we forbear to examine it, although it was discussed
in the argument at the bar. We must not, however, be understood as intimating that, if this point had arisen, the judgment
of the court would have been different from that which we are
about to give.
34
VoL. VIII.

398

SUPREME COURT.
Gibson v. Stevens.

The case as it comes before us in substance is this. The
pork and flour were purchased by McQueen & McKay, at Fort
Wayne, in" the State of Indiana, on the 4th of April, 1844.
The articles were in the warehouses of the respective vendors
at the time of sale, and the purchasers took from each of them
a written memorandum of the sale, with a receipt for the money,
and an engagement to deliver them on board of canal-boats soon
after the opening. of canal navigation. There was also a written guarantee from the respective vendors, that the articles sold
should pass inspection. By the order of McQueen & McKay
they were to be sent by canal-boats to Ludlow & Babcock, their
agents at Toledo, in the State of Ohio, to be held by them until they received orders from McQueen & McKay.
The documents executed by the warehousemen, herein before mentioned, transferred the property and the possession of
the pork and flour to McQueen & McKay, and the vendors
from that time held it for them, and as their bailees.
Being thus in possession, McQueen & McKay afterwards,'on
the 17th of April, in the city of New York, in consideration of
the advance of money mentioned in the statement of the case,
delivered to Gibson, the plaintiff in error, the evidences of title
which they had received from the vendors, indorsing thereon
an order upon them to deliver the property to Gibson. They
at the same time delivered to Gibson a letter to Ludlow & Babcock, their agents at Toledo, stating that they had received an
advance from Gibson upon this property, and directing them to
deliver it to him, and to comply with his orders.
Gibson was a commission merchant residing in New York,
and it is admitted that this transaction with McQueen & MlcKay was in the usual course of his business. On the 27th of
April, ten days after this transfer, the property was seized by
the defendant in error, as sheriff, under an attachment issued
on the same day at the suit of the bank, to obtain satisfaction
for the debt due to it from McQueen & McKay. At the time
of the attachment, the pork and flour still remained in the warehouses at Fort Wayne, and neither the warehousemen nor the
attaching creditor had notice of the transfer to Gibson. The
agent despatched by him arrived two days afterwards, and
claimed the property. The sheriff xefused to deliver it up, and
this action of replevin was thereupon brought to recover it.
In examining the question between these parties, it is proper
to say, that, if the fact had not been admitted that the dealing
between McQueen & McKay and the plaintiff was in the usual
course of trade, the court would yet have felt itself bound to
take judicial notice of it. Apart from the fraud imputed to

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

S99

Gibson v. Stevens.

McQueen & McKay, of which Gibson had no knowledge, the
statement of facts in this case describes the usual course of the
great inland commerce by which the larger part of the agricultural productions of the valley of the Mississippi find their way
to a market. It has existed long enough to assume a regular
form of dealing, and it embraces such a wide extent of territory,
and is of such general importance, that its ordinary course and
usages are now publicly known and understood; and it is the
duty of the court to recognize them, as it judicially recognizes
the general and established usages of trade on the ocean. For
if, by any decision of this court, doubt should be thrown upon
the validity and safety of a contract fairly made according to
the usages of this trade, and in the ordinary course and forms
of business, the want of confidence would seriously embarrass
its operations, to the injury of all connected with it, and would
certainly be not less injurious to the agriculturist and producer
than to the merchant and trader.
The transaction, therefore, being in the usual course of trade,
and free from all suspicion of bad faith on the part of the plaintiff, the question to be decided is, what was the legal effect of
the indorsement and delivery of the warehouse documents,
in consideration of the advance of money he then made to
McQueen & McKay? In the opinion of the court, it transferred to him the legal title and constructive possession of the
property; and the warehousemen from the time of this transfer became his bailees, and held the pork and flour for him.
The delivery of the evidences of title and the orders indorsed
upon them was equivalent, in the then situation of the property, to the delivery of the property itself.
This mode of transfer and delivery has been sanctioned
in analogous cases by the courts of justice in England and
this country, and is absolutely necessary for the purposes of
commerce. A ship at sea may be transferred to a purchaser
by the delivery of a bill of sale. So also as to the cargo, by
the indorsenient and delivery of the bill of lading. It is hardly
necessary to refer to adjudged cases to prove a doctrine so familiar in the courts. But the subject came before this court in
the case of Conard v. The Atlantic Insurance Company, in 1
Pet. 445, where this symbolical delivery was fully considered
and sustained., The same principle was decided in the case
of Brown v. Heathcote, 1 Atk. 160; Greaves v. Hepke, 2 Barn.
& Ald. 131; Atkinson v. Maling, 2 Term Rep. 465; Wilkes
and Fontaine v. Ferris, 5 Johns. 335; Pleasants v. Pendleton,
6 Rand. 473; Ingraham v. Wheeler, 6 Wend. 277; Ricker
v. Cross, 5 N. Hamp. 571; Gardner v. Howland, 2 Pick. 599;

400

SUPREME COURT.
Gibson v. Stevens.

2 Kent's Com. 499; Story on Sales, § 311. The rule is not
confined to the usages of any particular commerce, but applies
to every case where the thing sold is, from its character or situation at the time, incapable of actual delivery. The contract
between the plaintiff and McQueen & McKay having been
made in New York, the articles in the warehouses at Fort
Wayne were incapable of actual delivery; consequently, the
delivery of the evidences of title, with the order to the bailees indorsed on them, passed the title and 'possession to the
plaintiff.
It is true there is no formal assignment indorsed on the warehouse document. But the technical rules of common law conveyances and transfers of property have never been applied to
mercantile contracts made in the usual course and forms of'
business. The indorsement of the delivery order upon these
evidences of his title, like the indorsement upon a bill of lading, sufficiently manifests the istention of the parties that the
title and possession should pass to Gibson. And when that
intention is evident from the language of the written instruments and the nature and character of the contract, it is the
duty of the court to carry it into execution without embarrassing it with needless formalities. A contrary rule would most
commonly defeat the object which both parties designed to accomplish, and believed they had accomplished, by the instruments they executed.
Nor, as respects the legal title, can there be any distinction be.tween the advance made by Gibson, and the case of an actual
purchaser. To the extent of his advances he is a purchaser,
and-the legal title was conveyed to. him to protect his advances. It is not like the lien of a factor, who makes advances
for his principal upon goods in his possession. But even in that
case the property cannot be withdrawn from his hands until his
advances are repaid. But in the case before us, the title of Gibson is not a mere lien. The legal title, the right of property,
passed to him, and McQueen & McKay retained nothing but
an equitable interest in the surplus, if any remained after satisfying the claims of Gibson. The case of Conard v. The Atlantic Insurance Company, before referred to, was the case of a
loan of money upon a respondentia bond upon a cargo at sea,
secured by an assignment on the bill of lading, and in that
case the court said, - "It is true that, in discussions in a court
of equity, a mortgage is sometimes called a lien for a debt.
And so it certainly is, and something more; it is a transfer of
the property itself as security for the debt. This must be admitted to be true at law, and it is equally true in equity, for in
1- Pet. 441.
this respect equity follows the law."

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

401

Gibson v. Stevens.

The guarantee that the articles should pass inspection does
not affect the character of the transaction, nor convert it into
an executory contract. It is nothing more than the usual warranty of the soundness and quality of the thing sold, which is
taken by the purchaser in every sale of personal property when
he does not choose to take the risk upon himself.
It appears that the attachment was laid before the warehousemen received notice of the transfer to Gibson. Undoubtedly
it was his duty to use reasonable diligence in giving notice
both to them and the agent at Toledo. And negligence in this
respect on his part would be regarded as evidence of fraud,
and might moreover put in jeopardy his right of property, if it
passed into the hands of a bona fide purchaser without notice,
and in the usual course of trade. But in this case there has
been no unreasonable delay. The notice was promptly given,
and the receipt of it by the bailees was not necessary to complete his title. As between him and the creditors of McQueen
& McKay, the property and possession vested in him at the
time of the transfer and delivery of the documents. The cases
before referred to establish this principle.
Neither is the equitable interest of McQueen & McKay m
the surplus (if any remain) material to the decision. This
equitable interest is no doubt liable to attachment by the laws
of Indiana. But that liability will not authorize the attaching
creditor to take the property out of the hands of the legal
owner, before his claims upon it are discharged. The equity
of redemption upon a mortgage of real property is liable to
attachment. But it will scarcely be contended, that the attaching creditor, or a purchaser under the attachment, or the
officer levying it, could maintain an ejectment against a mortgagee in possession, or in any other way interfere with his possession, when holding it as security for money due him. The
same rule applies to a mortgagee of personal property holding
the legal title and possession to secure his advances.
Upoq the whole, therefore, we think there is error in the
judgment of the Circuit Court, and that it must be reversed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Indiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit
34*

SUPREME COURT.
West v. Smith et aL

Court, for further proceddings to be had therein in conformity
to the opinion of this .court.

JOHN WEST, AFPELLAINT,

V. JOSEPH SIITH AND ELLEN, HIS WIFE.

Where a bill was filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the County of
Alexandria, by a legatee, against the executor and residuary de.visee, praying for

the sale of the real estate in order to pay legacies, the personal estate being exhausted, it was not necessary to make a special devisee of land in Virginia, who
.resided in Virginia, a party defendant.
The Orphans' Court had power to allow a commission to the executor for paying
over a specific legacy, and a right to extend this commission to ten per cent.
Under the laws of Virginia, the executor had a right to refrain from pleading the
statute of limitations when sued, and to pay a judgment thus obtained against him.
The judgment, at all events, must stand good until reversed.
Where the executor paid legacies to persons who had occupied property which, it
was alleged, belonged to the deceased, and the occupiers claimed to hold it in
consequence of an uninterrupted possession of twenty years, the justice of their
claim could not be tried in a collateral manner, by objecting to this item of the
executor's account, on the ground that he should have set up the claim for rent in
set-off to the legacy.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia- and County of Alexandriaistting as a court of equity.
It was a bill filed in the Circuit Court by Ellen Smith, then
Ellen Mandeville, one of the legatees of Joseph Mandeville,

deceased, whose will was before this court for construction at
January term, 1844. The case is reported in 2 Howard, 560.
It willbe ,seen by reference to that case, that John West became a party to the proceedings, upon the ground of being

the residuary legatee, and, as the court then held, residuary
devisee also.

Ellen Mandeville, who intermarried with Joseph Smith
pending the suit, was a legatee under that will for

One of the clauses of the will was this.

$ 3,000.

"If my personal prop-

erty should not cover the entire amount of legacies I have or

may give, my executors will dispose of so much of my real
estate as will fully pay them."
Mandeville, the testator, died in July, 1837.
In May, 1839, Ellen Mandeville filed her bill in the Circuit
Court, (to which suit her husband, Smith, afterwards became a

party,) charging the making and publication of the will, the bequest to herself and others of certain legacies, which in default
of personal assets were chargeable upon the real estate, the

death of the testator, and the de4ciency of personal assets;

