OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

to be measured over and above support and maintenance.
It is not beyond the bounds of supposition that by the
death of the intestate his widow may have been deprived
of some actual customary service from him, capable of
measurement by some pecuniary standard, and that in
some degree that service might include as elements "care
and advice." But there was neither allegation nor eviclence of such loss of service, care, or advice; and yet, by
the instruction given, the jury were left to conjecture and
speculation. They were told to estimate the financial
value of such "care and advice from their own experiences as men." These experiences which were to be the
standard would, of course, be as various as their tastes,
habits and opinions. It plainly left it open to the jury to
consider the value of the widow's loss of the society and
companionship of her husband.
In this part of the charge the court erred. The assignments of error are otherwise overruled. But for this error
the judgment must be reversed and a new trial ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES concurs in the result.

GRANT AND BURLINGAME v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM AND IN ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE
UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW
YORK.

No. 831.

Argued January 6, 1913.-Decided January 20, 1913.

A judgment for criminal contempt is reviewable only by writ of error.
An appeal will not lie.
Only the person charged with contempt can sue out the writ of error;
one who appeared simply to state his claim to the books and papers
mentioned in the subpoena does not thereby become a party to the
proceeding and he has no standing to sue out a writ of error.
Professional privilege does not relieve an attorney from producing

GRANT v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

under subpoena of the Federal grand jury books and papers of a
corporation left with him for safe keeping by a client who claimed
to be owner thereof.
Independent books and documents of a defunct corporation left with an
attorney for safe-keeping by a client, claiming to own them are not
privileged communications.
Books and documents of a corporation must be produced by an attorney with whom they were left for safe-keeping even if they might
incriminate the latter.
Notwithstanding a corporation ceases to do business and transfers its
books to an individual, the books retain their essential character
and are subject to inspection and examination of the proper authorities and there is no unreasonable search and seizure in requiring
their production before the grand jury in a Federal proceeding.
Wheeler v. United States, 226 U. S. 470.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William A. Keener and Mr. Dallas Flannaganfor
appellant and plaintiff in error submitted:
The finding of the court that Grant received the packages and box as a warehouseman is unsupported by the
evidence.
The title to the books and letters called for by the
subpoena, being in Burlingame personally, the case of
Wilson v. United States, 221 U. S. 361, has no application
to the case at bar.
There is no law of Arizona requiring the keeping of such
7books

or papers as is called for by the subpoena and there

-is no law of the State of New York requiring the keeping
of such books or papers by a foreign corporation. The

only books required by the laws of the State of New York
to be kept by a foreign corporation is a stock book. See
Stock Corporation Law, ยง 33 of the Laws of the State of
New York, 1909, Chapter 61.
The packages and box having been left with Mr. Grant
as attorney for Burlingame, and the books and letters
called for by the subpoena being the personal property of
Burlingame, the order appealed from was erroneous.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Should the Government succeed in requiring Grant to
open the packages and box and in making him act as a
search warrant officer of the Government, then ft is proposed to have Grant answer whether or not hv has found
the books and letters called for by the subpcena. In other
words, they propose to prove through him the possession
and control of such books and letters as a preliminary to
calling for the same.
This is not permissible under the Fifth Amendment
within Ballman v. Fagin, 200 U. S. 186.
The Government having required Grant to learn the
whereabouts of the books and letters and having required
him to disclose that they. are in his possession as attorney,
then the Government proposes to require Grant to produce
these books and letters before the grand jury. This
is in violation of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments
to the Constitution. Boyd v. United States, 16 U. S. 616.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Loring C. Christie
was on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

Walter B. Grant and 'E. E. Burlingame seek, both by
appeal and by writ of error, a review of a judgment of
the District Court by which Grant was adjudged to be
guilty of contempt.
Burlingame was indicted by a Federal grand jury
in the Southern District of New York on August 30, 1911,
and again on March 15, 1912, the latter indictment being
found against him in connection with The Ellsworth Company, a corporation, J. D. Smith and others. Walter B.
Grant was one of Burlingame's attorneys.' On March 13,
1912, a subpoena duces tecum was served upon Grant
directing him to appear before the grand jury to testify
in regard to an alleged violation 'of the statutes of the

GRANT v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

United States by J. D. Smith, and to produce certain
books and papers of The Ellsworth Company for the
years 1907, 1908, 1909. In response to the subpoena,
Grant appeared before the grand jury but did-not produce the documents demanded. On being asked whether
he had received from Burlingame any box of books or
papers, he declined to,answer further than to say that he
had received nothing from Burlingame save in his capacity
as attorney for the purpose of professional consultation
and of preparing for the defense of his client. He said
that he had not opened any box received from Burlingame,
and he refused to open any such box in order to ascertain
whether or not it contained the books or papers called
for upon the ground that to do so for the purpose of disclosihg the result of his examination would violate his
duty and his client's privilege.
The grand jury thereupon presented Grant for contempt. Burlingame appeared in court, set up that' the
books and papers required to be produced were his individual property and that to produce them or to disclose
their contents or whereabouts would tend to incriminate
him. The court appointed a referee to take evidence as
to the rights and privileges claimed by Grant and as to
the ownership of the books and papers, together with
such other evidence as might be relevant to the questions
raised, and to make report to the court with his conclusions. Much testimony was taken before the referee who
submitted an elaborate report upon the facts and the
law, embracing the following conclusions: that Burlingame had at all times been the sole stockholder of the
Ellsworth Company which, on December 31, 1909, had
ceased to do business; that the legal title to the books and
papers was in the corporation and not in Burlingame;
that if the title had passed to Burlingame prior to the service of the subpoena, nevertheless they would not be privi-i
leged for the reason that they were corporate in character;

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

that, in August or September, 1911, Burlingame had delivered two packages and a box to Grant which the latter
had in his possession; that the packages and box were
delivered to Grant for safe-keeping in his office and were
not delivered to him in his professional capacity as attorney, or for the purpose of consultation with him in such
capacity; that their contents were itot privileged and that
Grant should have searched therein for the books and
papers, should have produced them if found, and should
have answered the questions put to him before the grand
jury; and finally that by reason of his refusals he was in
contempt.
Exceptions were filed to the report which was confirmed
by the court save as to the finding that the legal title to
the books and papers was in the corporation. Grant
was thereupon adjudged to be in contempt for failing
to examine the contents of the box and packages for the
purpose of ascertaining whether they contained the papers
specified in the subpoena and for failing to answer the
questions put to him concerning them by the grand jury.
It was provided that he might purge himself of the contempt by making the examination and by answering such
questions and producing the papers, if found, in response
to a fresh subpoena. In punishment, he was fined a sum
equal to the expenses of the reference.
The appeals, both of Grant and Burlingame, from this
judgment must be dismissed. The case was one of criminal contempt reviewable only by writ of error. Bessette v.
W. B. Conkey Co., 194 U. S. 324, 336-338; Bucklin v.
United States, 159 U. S. 680; Gompers v. Bucks Stove and
Range Co., 221 U. S. 418; 444; In re Merchants' Stock Co.,
223 U. S. 639.
In the writ of error, Burlingame has attempted to join.
The subpoena was not directed to him and he was not
charged with contempt. It is true that he appeared before
the court, when Grant was presented by the grand jury.

GRANT v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and stated his claim to the books and papers. In the
subsequent inquiry, the purpose of the court manifestly
was to ascertain all the facts in order that it might properly
decide the question with respect to the alleged contumacy
of Grant. Neither Burlingame's appearance before the
court, nor the order of reference, made Burlingame a
party to the proceeding, which was in its nature criminal
and was instituted and conducted to the final judgment
against Grant alone. Burlingame had no standing to sue
out a writ of error. Bayard v. Lombard, 9 How. 530, 551;
Payne v. Niles, 20 How. 219, 221; Ex parte Cockcrofl,
104 U. S. 578. And the writ must be dismissed as to him.
The judgment is attacked by Grant upon the ground
that there has been a denial of constitutional right. It
is contended by the Government that the writ should also
be dismissed as to Grant because the facts are not open
to review and it was found by the court below that he
had not received the box and packages in his professional capacity as attorney or for purposes of consultation.
While this suffices to show that the questions put to
te witness did not invade the professional privilege, the
finding does not control the decision of the case with
respect to the requirement of the production of the books
and papers if in Grant's possession. (See 4 Wigniore
on Evidence, ยง 2307.) These were independent docuinents. Even if they had been received by Grmt as
att torley for purposes of conisultation, they could not be
rog-arded as privileged conununicat iols. Au(d, assuming
th.at they were left with him merely for safe-keeping,
they would still be held by Grant as Burlingame's agent.
Pie inquiry this remains whether in these cireunist ances
Grant could refuse their production if they would tend to
incriminate his principal.
Allhough the merits of the coustitutional qu,.etioil are
tlhus before us, it, does not r(quire exteiled1(Iisclissionl

in view of the recent decisions of tlhis court. The books

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

and papers called for by the subpoena were corporate
records and documents. Whether or not the title to them
had passed to Burlingame when The Ellsworth Company
ceased to do business, their essential character was not
changed. They remained subject to inspection and examination when required by competent authority, and they
could not have been withheld by Burlingame himself
upon the ground that they would tend to incriminate
him. Nor was there any unreasonable search or seizure.
Wheeler v. United States, 226 U. S. 478; Wilson v. United
States, 221 U. S. 361.
It follows that Grant, from any point of view, was not
justified in his refusals, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

DAVIS v. LAS OVAS COMPANY, INCORPORATED.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 87.

Argued December 16, 1912.-Decided January 20, 1913.

Where the true consideration of a syndicate purchase is concealed and
the property is conveyed at a higher figure in shares of stock to a
corporation whose stock is held partly by the members of the syndicate and partly by others and the necessary increase of shares to
pay for the property goes to some of the syndicate promoters as a
secret profit, the corporation may maintain an action to require those
obtaining the shares to surrender them for cancellation.
Fraud in the purchase of property which is to be conveyed to a corporation composed partly of those purchasing the property and partly
by others may become operative against the corporation itself and
give it a right to maintain an action against some or all of those
guilty of the fraud to protect the innooent stockholders who bought in
ignorance thereof.

