OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant.

WYNKOOP,

HALLENBECK, CRAWFORD
PANY v. GAINES.

227 U. S.

COM-

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 689.

Motion to dismiss submittd January 6,1913.-Decided
January 20, 1913.

Where the question whether the. claim against the bankrupt be allowed
or not has been settled by an order of the court, questions remaining
as to how the order shall be carried out are purely administrative,
and as they do not involve the rejection or allowance of a claim this
court has no power under § 25b of the Bankruptcy Act to review the
decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Appeal from 196 Fed. Rep. 357, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of appeals under § 25b of the Bankruptcy Act, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. William Otis Badger, Jr., Mr. William H. Hotchkiss
and Mr. Louis J. Wolff for appellant.
The appeal is properly taken under § 25b (1) of the
Bankruptcy Act, Judicial Code, § 252. The present proceeding is one in bankruptcy as distinguished from a
controversy arising in bankruptcy proceedings. Coder v.
Arts, 213 U. S. 223; Hewitt v. Berlin Machine Works, 194
U. S. 296; Tefft, Weller & Co. v. Munsuri, 222 U. S. 114.
By the filing of its petition the appellant instituted
a proceeding in bankruptcy as to the appellee's claim
under §§ 2, 7 and 57k of the Bankruptcy Act. In re
Mueller, 135 Fed. Rep. 711.
All the subsequent steps in the proceeding were based
directly upon this petition, and the decision appealed
from is the final one upon such petition. It will be noted

WYNKOOP CO. v. GAINES.
227 U. S.

Argument for Appellaut.

that Gaines, upon his own appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, invoked the jurisdiction of that court fist by
taking an appeal from the decision of the District Court,
procuring the allowance of the same, and filing his assignment of errors within the ten days allotted for that purpose
and it was only at a later date, and seemingly as an afterthought, that his petition for review was filed.
No decision was ever made by the Circuit Court of
AIpeals as to whether the appeal or the petition to review
was the proper method to reach that court. Both proceedings were taken by the appellee who was appellant in
that court. Neither was the useless formality of a motion
to dismiss resorted to, since in any event the controversy
would have been adjudicated upon in the proper proceeding. Fisher v. Cushman, 103 Fed. Rep. 860; In re
Worcester County, 102 Fed. Rep. 808; Lockman v. Lang,
132 Fed. Rep. 1; In re Schoenfeld, 183 Fed. Rep. 219.
Here the proceeding was directly to disallow the
Gaines claim and his only proper method of invoking the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals was by appeal
under § 25 of the act. Matter of Loving, 224 U. S. 183.
The amount in controversy exceeds $2,000 within the
definition of this requirement in Gray v. Grand Forks
Mercantile Co., 138 Fed. Rep. 344.
A Federal question is presented within § 709, Rev. Stat.,
since a construction of the Bankruptcy Act is involved
and the decisions below cannot be sustained without
reference to its provisions. Fidelity Co. v. Bray, 225
U. S. 205.
The appellee, in his brief, tacitly assumes that a Federal
question is presented, since nothing is said upon this
branch of the subject.
The fact that an incidental question of rank or priority
of the claim may be included in this proceeding does not
defeat the right of appeal. Cunningham v. German Ins.
Bank, 103 Fed. Rep. 932.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Mr. John J. Crawfordfor appellee.
Memorandum opinion, by direction of the court, by
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE.

A corporation known as the Paris Modes Company was
adjudicated a bankrupt on March 28, 1910. Gaines, The
appellee, owned half of the stock of the company and was
its president. His relatives, during the active life of the
corporation, made large loans to the company. The claims
for these advances were assigned to Gaines shortly before
the bankruptcy, and he made proof of the same in the
bankruptcy proceeding. Subsequently the Wynkoop,
Hallenbeck, Crawford Company, the appellant, a creditor
of the bankrupt estate which-had proved its claim, filed
an intervening petition asking for the reexamination
and disallowance as against it of the Gaines claim. The
ground for the relief prayed was that Gaines was equitably
estopped from collecting his claim against the bankrupt
estate to the prejudice of the petitioner because of misrepresentations and concealment of material facts as to
the financial condition of the bankrupt made by him as
an officer of the company, upon which the intervening company relied to its injury. The referee found that Gaines
had made the representations complained of and that
although intentional fraud on his part was not shown, yet
if he had been the owner and holder of the notes upon
which he had proved at the time of the making of the
statements they were of such a character as to cause him to
be equitably estopped from asserting the claims to the prejudice of the intervenor. As, however, it was found that
Gaines had no interest in the claims embraced in his proof
of debt at the time the representations were made by him,
because he had acquired the claims by assignments subsequent thereto, the referee concluded that Gaines was
entitled to assert the iights of his assignors and was not

WYNKOOP CO. v. GAINES.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

estopped as against the Wynkoop, Hallenbeck, Crawford
Company. In reviewing the action of the referee the
District Court disapproved the same, and, on June 22,
1911, directed that the claim of Gaines, in so far as it
represented demands against the bankrupt which were in
existence at the time the representations were made by
Gaines, should be postponed to the claim of the intervenor.
Neither party appealed from this order.
Thereafter, on August 3, 1911, the referee made an
order that the dividend .on the sum of $199,000 of the
claim of Gaines, being the portion representing the indebtedness at the time of the misrepresentations, should
be paid to the intervenor. On petition to review, this
order was affirmed by the District Court. Gaines then
carried the matter, by both appeal and petition for' review, to the Circuit Court of Appeals, complaining of
the mode of distribution which had been adopted to execute the decree of June 22, 1911. That the controversy
was thus limited and that no issue was raised or contention
made concerning the decree of June 22, 1911, itself, which
had become final, is certain. Thus, in August, 1912, in
announcing its decision, the Circuit Court of Appeals
thus stated the controversy before it: "There is no occasion to go back of the order of June 22, 1911, or to inquire
into its propriety. No appeal was taken or petition to
review filed, and appellant here concedes that it lays
down the rule for distribution in this case, and announces
that he has no criticism to make as to the propriety of
that rule. That is to say, although in his opinion the
facts did not warrant the adoption of such a rule, he is
willing to accept it and let the case be disposed of in confortuity to its terms."
The court then considered whether the distribution
ordered by the referee and approved by the District
Court accorded with the order of June 22, 1911, and held
that it did not, and directed distribution of $12,250, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

balance of dividends in the hands of the trustee, in accordance with views expressed in the opinion. 196 Fed.
Rep. 357. The Wynkoop Company thereupon prosecuted this appeal, and a motion has been made to dismiss
the same for want of jurisdiction.
That the motion to dismiss must be granted is manifest
from the statement we have made. Whatever may have
been the nature of the original controversy presented
by the intervention of the Wynkoop Company, the
acquiescence of both parties in the order of June 22, 1911,
settled that controversy, and the questions remaining
were purely administrative, concerning as they did merely
the carrying but of the order according to its true intent
and purpose. This being the case, the question whether
the order of June 22, 1911, was correctly interpreted by
the referee and the District Court in the distribution
directed by the subsequent administrative order is not
one concerning an allowance or rejection of a claim within
§ 25b of the Bankruptcy Act, but is a matter arising in the
administration of the bankrupt estate, which we are not
empowered to review.
Appeal dismissed.

VIRTUE v. CREAMERY PACKAGE MANUFACTURING COMPANY AND OWATONINA COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 80. Argued December 9, 10, 1912.-Decided January 20, 1913.
To sustain an action under § 7 of the Sherman Act a necessary element
is cooperation by some of the defendants in a scheme involving
monopoly or restraint of interstate trade and causing the damage
complained of.

