100

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

objection to the order complained of, is that it will upset
the Cooley award, under which rates have been adjusted
throughout a large section. But that, too, was a matter
for consideration by the Commission -which by this order
has not lost power to restore the old rates, or to make
changes in the new if it shall be found that those put in
force, unjustly discriminate in favor of New Orleans
against other cities.
The order of the Commission, restoring a local rate
that had been in force for many years, and making a
corresponding reduction in the through rate, was not
arbitrary but sustained by substantial, though conflicting
evidence. The courts cannot settle the conflict nor put
their judgment against that of the rate-making body, and
the decree is
Reversed.

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE COMPANY OF LONDON
v. QUINTANA.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

PORTO RICO.
No. 280.

Argued January 6, 7, 1913.-Decided January 27, 1913.

Ordinarily the granting or refusing of a continuance is within the discretion of the trial court and will only be interfered with by this court
in a clear case of abuse; but in this case the assertion of error based
upon the refusal to continue has some foundation, and is not merely
frivolous, so the motion to affirm is denied.
Section 953, Rev. Stat., confers authority on, and makes it the duty of,
a judge of the Federal court to settle controversies concerning the
bill of exceptions in a case tried before his successor who is, by reason
of death or disability, unable to do so; and this applies to the judge
of the District Court of the United States for Porto Rico.
While it is the duty of plaintiff in error to obtain the appr6val of the
bill of exceptions by the judge who tried the case, or, in case of his

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE CO. v. QUINTANA.
227 U. S.

101

Opinion of the Court.

death or disability, by his successor, there are circumstances under
which delay will be excused; and a motionI to dismiss under Rule 9 for
failure to file the bill denied, so as to give the plaintiff in error reasonable opportunity to have the bill settled.
In this case; the trial judge having died and neither party having moved
for a settlement of the bill by his successor, and there having heretofore been room for doubt as to whether § 953, Rev. Stat., governs this
case, the motion to dismiss is denied, but without prejudice to renew if plaintiff in error does not within a reasonable time seek a
settlement of the bill.
Where a transcript of record has been filed for purposes of a motion to
dismiss for want of bill of, exceptions, which is denied without prejudice, the bill when settled, or the reasons for failure to obtain its
settlement, can be included in a supplementary transcript.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. C. L. Bouv6 with whom Mr. Hector H. Scoville was
on the brief, for defendant in error, in support of motion
to dismiss or affirm.
Mr. FredericD. McKenney, with whom Mr. J. Spalding
Flannery and Mr. William Hitz were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error, kropposition thereto.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

In 1911 defendant in error moved under Rule 9 to
docket and dismiss the writ of error for failure to file the
record. Plaintiff in error opposed because a bill of exceptions was yet unsettled in the hands of the court below,
and the motion was' on April 3, 1911, denied "without
prejudice to a renewal of same if case is not docketed
within a reasonable time after the bill of exceptions is
settled." Shortly thereafter, on May 3, 1911, there was
filed as a transcript a/paper containing the pleadings and
certain journal entries and other documents purporting

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

to relate to proceedings had in the cause in the court below
and to certain steps stated to have been taken concerning
a bill of exceptions, there being, however, no such bill in
the record. Putting out of view the statements made
exhibiting the facts and circumstances which gave rise to
the reserving of an exception and the preparation of a bill
of exceptions and the effort to settle the same, and looking
only at the pleadings and journal entries properly embraced in the record, the following is shown:
The' suit, on November 29, 1910, was tried, resulting
in a failure of the jury to agree. On December 2, 1910,
the case was set for re-trial at 10 A. M. on the following
day. When the case was called for trial defendant asked
a postponement "on account of the short time at his disposal to prepare the defense in the case." On this request
being denied an exception was taken and the counsel for
the defendant withdrew. After the introduction of evidence for the plaintiff the jury, as instructed by the court,
returned a verdict for the plaintiff, upon which judgment
was entered. It is to this judgment that the writ of error
is directed, it having been allowed by the trial judge
shortly after the trial, a supersedeas bond having been
also approved about the same time. The assignment of
errors was based solely on error asserted to have been
committed in refusing the request to continue the case.
It appears also from the record that a bill of exceptions
was tendered to the court for approval, which bill presumably contained a statement of the facts connected
with the refusal of the continuance which were relied upon
to sustain the assignment of error made on that subject.
The matter is again before us on a motion to dismiss
because there is nothing within our jurisdiction to review,
as there is no bill of exceptions, or to affirm, because of the
wholly frivolous and unsubstantial character of the ground
of error relied upon, that is, the failure of the courL below
to grant a continuance.

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE CO. v. QUINTANA.
227 U. S.

103

Opinion of the Court.

It is obvious that these propositions, inherently considered, rest upon an identical foundation. (Deming v.
CarlislePacking Company, 226 U. S. 102), and we cometo
dispose of them in that aspect, considering first the more
far-reaching of the two, that is, the asserted frivolous
character of the error relied upon. WTe must of course
approach the subject upon the assumption that it is
urged upon the hypothesis that the record is in such a
state as to justify us in disposing of the matter. This
assumption must be indulged because if it is not there
would be no way of testing the merits of the contention
and it would consequently resolve itself into a mere
change in the form or stating the proposition that because
there was no bill of, exceptions there was nothing for consideration. Coming to test the question of the frivolity
of the error relied upon in the light of the assumption just
stated, we deem it necessary merely to outline the facts
which it is insisted would have been disclosed had a bill of
exceptions been settled, as follows: After the 'failure of the
jury to agree, in reliance upon what was asserted to be a
practice which had prevailed from the organization of the
court, where there had been a disagreement of the jury, to
carry a case over for trial before another venire at the following term, the witnesses for the defendant were discharged and allowed to depart for their homes; and on the
assigning of the case for a re-trial the request for continuance was based on the physical impossibility of bringing
the witnesses back in time to be heard, and to enable that
purpose to be accomplished a continuance of five days was
prayed and refused. Under this assumed state of facts we
content ourselves with saying that there is no room for
holding that the assertioa of error based upon the refusal
to continue was so devoid of foundation as to be merely
frivolous in character. We say this because while the
elementary rule is that the granting or refusing of a continuance is within the discretion of a trial court, a discre-

OCTOBER TERM; 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

tion which will not be lightly interfered with, it is equally
elementary that where it is manifest that there has been
a plain abuse of discretion the duty to correct arises.
This brings us to the motion to dismiss, and its determination depends on the facts concerning the alleged bill
of exceptions and whetherAthere has been such laches on
that subject as to require a dismissal.
The mistrial, the assignment for a re-trial, the applicalion for a continuance and its refusal and the reserving
of an exception, the verdict and judgment and the'allowance of the writ of error and the tendering of a bill of
exceptions on the subject for settlement as shown by the
record 'have already been stated in detail and we need
not repeat those statements. Certain is it that the bill
remained unsettled in the hands of the court when the
previous order of this court declining to dismiss for want
of filing of the record was entered. Indeed, it is shown by
the record that on the fourth of April, 1911, the day after,
the previous application to dismiss because of the want
of a bill of exceptions was by this court denied, the court
below entered the following order:
"In view of the illness of the Judge of this Court it is
hereby ordered that the allowance and approval of the
Bill of Exceptions in the above entitled cause, heretofore
under consideration, is hereby continued over to the approaching April term of this Court."
-I is conceded by counsel for both parties that Judge
Jenkins, who thus continued the hearing of the. controversy, never further acted upon the matter, because
shortly after he left Porto Rico for the United States,
where he remained until his death in the following June.
It is likewise conceded that the successor in office to
Judge Jenkins-Judge Charlton-was appointed and held
the court from August 14, 1911, until October 7, 1911,
and a further term from October 9, 1911, until April 13,
1912. There is also a certificate of the clerk contained

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE CO. v. QUINTANA.
227 U. S.

105

Opinion of the Court.

in the motion papers to the effect that no steps were
taken by anyone to procure action by Judge Charlton
looking to the settlement of the bill of exceptions. And
it is the neglect during the time stated to press for a
settlement of the bill of exceptions by Judge Charlton
which forms the basis of the laches which it is insisted
requires a dismissal of the writ of error. While insisting
on laches, it is admitted (citing Hume v. Bowie, 148 U. S.
245, 253) that if there was no legal possibility of having
the bill of exceptions settled and the right thereto was
lost without any fault on the part of the plaintiff in error,
the duty w6uld obtain to grant a new trial.
Passing the consideration of whether the provisions
of § 219 of the Code of Civil Procedure of Porto Rico,
copied in the margin,I are applicable to the District Court
of the United States for Porto Rico (see Chateaugay Ironi
Co., Petitioner, 128 U. S. 544), and whether, if applicable,
the adoption of rules on the subject was essential to give
it full efficacy, we are of opinion that § 953 of the Revised
Statutes, also copied in the margin,' conferred authority
A judge or judicial officer may settle and sign a bill, of exceptions
after as well as before he ceases to be such judge or judicial officer. If
such judge or judicial officer, before the bill of exceptions is settled,
dies, is removed from office, becomes disqualified, is absent from said
island, or refues'to settle the bill of exceptions, or if no mode is provided by law for the settlement of the same, it shall be settled and
certified in such manner as the Supreme Court may by its orders or
rules direct. Judges, judicial officers, and the Supreme Court shall
respectively possess the same-power, in settling and certifying statements, as is by, this section conferred upon them in settling and certifying bills of exceptions.
2That a bill of exceptions allowed in any cause shall be deemed sufficiently authenticated if signed by the judge of the court in which the
cause was tried, or by the presiding judge thereof if more than one
judge sat on the trial of the cause, without any seal of the court or
judge annexed thereto And in case the judge before whom the cause
has heretofore been or may hereafter be tried is, by reason of death,
sickness, or other disability, unAble to hear and pass upon the motion

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 IT.S.

and made it the duty, if possible, of any judge of the court
below, successor in office to Judge Jenkins, to consider
and settle the controversy, concerning the bill of exceptions. Although of this opinion, we do not think our
duty exacts under the circumstances of this case that we
dismiss for the want of a bill of exceptions. On the contrary we are of opinion that our duty is to afford an
opportunity to the parties to avail of the provisions of
Rev. Stat., § 953, so that the record may be completed,
to the end that the merits of the writ of error may be
disposed of. Briefly stated, we reach this conclusion for
the following reasons: 1, because we think there is no just
ground for treating our previous order as an affirmative
direction to seek the settlement of tle bill of exceptions
from the successor in office of Judge Jenkins, because at
the time that order was entered Judge Jenkins was discharging his duties, and in fact the order, continuing
over the term the settlement of the bill of exceptions,
was made by him, while the previous motion to dismiss
was here under consideration; 2, because there was some
reason for considering that the provision of the Porto
Rican Code to which we have referred did not apply to
proceedings in the court below, and there was also some
for a new trial and allow and sign said bill of exceptions, then the judge
who succeeds said trial judge, or any other judge of the court in which
the cause was tried, holding such court thereafter, if the evidence in
such cause has been or is taken in stenographic notes, or if the said
judge is satisfied by any other means that he can pass upon such motion
and allow a true bill of exceptions, shall pass upon said motion and allow
and sign such bill of exceptions; and his ruling upon such motion and
allowance and signing of such bill of exceptions shall be as valid as if
such ruling and allowance and signing of such bill of exceptions had
been made by the judge before whomn such cause was tried; but in case
said judge is satisfied that owing to the fact that he did not preside at
the trial, or for any other cause, that he cannot fairly pass upon said
motion, and allow and sign said bill of exceptions, then he may in his
discretion grant a new trial lo tihe party moving therefor.

GUARDIAN ASSURANCE CO. v. QUINTANA.
227 U. S.

107

Opinion of the Court.

room for reasonable doubt as to whether the provisions
of Rev. Stat., § 953, governed the matter in hand, thereby
rebutting the inference that the mere failure to apply
to the successor of Judge Jenkins for a settlement of the
bill of exceptions was either a waiver of the writ of error
or an election to stand upon the imperfect record as filed
in this court without reference to the settlement of the
bill of exceptions; 3, because the delay in the settling of
the bill of exceptions obviously, in part at least, arose
from the objection of defendant in error, plaintiff below,
who equally with plaintiff in error took no steps after
the order of this court overruling the prior motion to
dismiss and the death of Judge Jenkins, to have the bill
settled by his successor; 4, because the failure. of the
court to instruct a verdict on the first trial and the disagreement of the jury all serve to indicate that the defense
may not have been wholly devoid of merit; and, 5," because if the facts stated extraneous to the record concerning the bill of exceptions, which we have noticed for
the purpose of the motion to affirm, be taken as true,
it might result that a dismissal for want of a settlement
of the bill of exceptions would occasion injustice, amounting to a possible condemnation without a reasonable
opportunity to be heard. Indeed, the admonition which
arises from this last consideration is cogently re~nforced
when the subject-matter to which the bill of exception
related, the mere refusal to grant a continuance, is taken
into view, and the long delay and presumed hesitancy
which followed in settling the bill of exceptions are borne
in -i1d.
We shall, therefore, refuse the motion both to dismiss
and alflirm, without prejudice, however, to the right to
renew the same unless )laintiff in error within a reasonable t hre applies to and diligently seeks the settlement of
the bill of exceptions at the hands of the successor in office
of Judge Jenkins or any judge empowered by assignment

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

or otherwise, to discharge the duties of a judge of the court
below. 1 And we furt~her direct that the bill of exceptions
when settled shall be promptly included in a supplementary transcript of record, or the reasons for a failure to
settle the bill, if the judge below finds it impossible to do so,
be certified to this court.
Motion to dismiss or affirm denied without prejudice.

DE BARY & COMPANY v. STATE OF LOUISIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 696.

Motion to affirm submitted January 10, 1913.-Decided January 27, 1913.

Under the Wilson Act of August 8, 1890, 26 Stat. 313, a State may impose a license -for regulating the sale of liquor in original packages
brought from foreign countries, as well as that brought from other
States.
Where a statute refers to "all " liquors transported into a State or
Territory the point of origin is immaterial and the law applies to
liquors alike from other States and from foreign countries.
The intent of Congress in enacting the Wilson Act was to give the
several States power to deal with all liquors coming from outside
to within their respective limits, and this purpose would be defeated
if the act were construed so as not to include liquors from foreign
countries as well as from other States.
An act of Congress, such as the Wilson Act, will not be so construed as
to confer upon foreign producers of an article a right specifically
denied to domestic producers of that article.
130 Louisiana, 1090, affirmed.
See the act of Congress approved January 7, 1913, entitled' "An
act to provide for holding the-District Court of the United States for
Porto Rico -during the absence from the island of the United States district judge and for the trial of cases in the event of the disqualification of
or inability to act by the said judge."

