OCTOBER TERM, 1912'
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

now to be established. The suggestion that mere nonfeasance is alleged is shown to be unfounded by the statement that we have made. It is true that the declaration
was amended after the petition to remove had been
denied, but the amendment if not unnecessary merely
made the original cause of action more precise. On the
question of removal we have not to consider more than
whether therewas a real intention to get a joint judgment
and whether there was a colorable ground for it shown as
the
record stood when the removal was denied. We are
not to
decide whether a flaw colld be picked in the declaration on special demurrer. As the record stood Barrett was
alleged negligently to have Ordered the plaintiff into a
dangerous place and by his conduct to have assured the
plaintiff of safety, when if Barrett had used ordinary care
the plaintiff need not have been hurt. To add that Barrett knew the specific source of the danger is merely to
make plainer what evidently was meant before.
Judgment affirmed.

BROOKLYN MINING AND MILLING COMPANY
v. MILLER.
APPEAL

FROM

THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE

TERRITORY

OF ARIZONA.

No. 144.

Argued January 23, 24,L1913.-Decided February 3, 1913.

Suit for specific performance dismissed by the courts belbw for failure
of the vendors to comply with the terms of the agreement and judgment affirmed by this court.
The court below properly held appellant to an agreement made in
open court as consideration for a continuance that no judgment that
might meanwhile be obtained in another State on the same cause
of action should be pleaded.
13 Arizona, 217, affirmed.

BROOKLYN MINING CO. v. MILLER.
227 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

The facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. F. S. Howell, with whom Mr. John J. Hawkins,
Mr. Thos. C. Job and Mr. A. W. Jefferis were on the brief,
for appellant:
Under the issues presented, and the findings of both
lower courts that no sale had been consummated of the
West Brooklyn claim to. the United Verde Copper Company by-defendants prior to January 1, 1908, the plaintiff
was entitled to specific performance of the contract in
suit, without regard to whether it prevented such consummation or not. Beardsley v. Beardsley, 138 U. S.
261; Columbia Nat. Bk. v. Ger. Nat. Bk. (Neb.), 77 N.
W. Rep. 346; Keenan v. Sic. (Neb.), 136 N. W. Rep. 841;
2 Kent's Comm. 468; Micks v. Stevenson (Ind.), 51 N.
E. Rep. 492, 493; Phillip Schneider Brewing Co. v. Am.
Ice Mach. Co., 77 Fed. Rep. 138, 142-144.
Appellant (plaintiff) was guilty of no default, under the
terms of the contract set up in its complaint, which would
warrant the lower courts in refusing it a decree by way of
specific performance ordering a conveyance to it of the
West Brooklyn and other mining claims mentioned in its
complaint, and the refusal of such relief and the dismissal
of plaintiff's (appellant's) complaint was reversible error.
The formal dismissal of the complaint in the case referred to in the contract,: the case of the Brooklyn Company
v. Miller, was not a condition precedent to be performed
before the consummation of a sale of the "West Brooklyn" claim to the United Verde. If it is to be maintained
that the contract itself did not operate to dismiss the case,
appellant could formally dismiss at any time before decree
for specific enforcement. King v. Gsantner, 23 Nebraska,
797; Pom. Con., p. 462, ยง 390; Seaver v. Hall, 50 Nebraska,
878, 882; Story on Eq. Jur. 777; Whiteman v. Perkins,
56 Nebraska, 181, 185.
Defendants (appellees) made no proper tender of per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant.

227 U. S.

formance following which plaintiff (appellant) would be
obliged to dismiss its suit against Miller et al. according
to the terms of the contract. Blight v, Schneck, 10 Pa. St.
285; Fred v. Fred, 50 Atl. Rep. 776; Fitch v. Bunch, 30
California, 208-212; Great Western Tel. Co. v. Lowenthal,
154 Illinois, 261; MacDonald v. Huff, 77 California, 279;
Tharaldson v. Evereth, 87 Minnesota, 168; Wittenbrock v.
Cass, 110"California, 1.
The undisputed testimony and admissions of appelleos
(defendants) conclusively show that the failure of appellant to dismiss the suit mentioned in the contract sued on
had absolutely nothing to do with and did not cause the
failure of appellees to perform the condition precedent of a
sale of the West Brooklyn to the United Verde Copper
Company. Halsell v. Renfrow, 202 U. S. 287; Davis v.
Williams, 54 L. R. A. 749; So. Pine Lumber Co. v. Ward,
208 U. S. 126; Ward v. Sherman, 192 U. S. 168.
The defendants having taken the position, before litigation was started to compel performance, that the West
Brooklyn had in fact been sold to the United Verde Copper
Company on or before January 1, 1908. cannot, after suit,
change front and assert that a failure to sell was for the
fault of plaintiff. Columbia Nat. Bk. v. Ger. Nat. Bk.
(Neb.), 77 N. W. Rep. 346.
The court erred in refusing to give effect to the Nebraska
decree, for the reason that it constituted an adjudication
of the rights of the plaintiff and certain of the parties
defendant by a court of competent jurisdiction, and was
therefore conclusive in this case as to such rights and.parties as were involved therein. Bigelow v. Old Dominion
Copper Min. & Smelt. Co., 225 U. S. 111; Butterfield v.
Nogales Copper Co., 80 Pac. Rep. 345; Deposit Bank v.
Frankfort, 191 U. S. 499;' Estil v. Embry, 112 Fed. Rep.
882; Fayfrweather v. Ritch, 195 U. S. 276; Harris y. Balk,
198 U. S. 215; Hilton v. Guyot, 159 U. S. 113; Heinze v.
Butte Min. Co., 129 Fed. Rep. 274; The J. R. Langdon, 163

BROOKLYN MINING CO. v. MILLER.
227 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

Fed. Rep. 472; So. Pac. Ry. Co. v. United States, 168 U. S.
1; Niles v. Lee (Mich.), 135 N. W. Rep. 274; No. Pac. Co.
v. Slaght, 205 U. S. 122.
Mr. T. G. Norris, with whom Mr. John M. Ross, Mr.
Reese M. Ling and Mr. E. J. Mitchell were on the brief,
for appellees:
The findings of the District Court adopted by the Supreme Court of the Territory in its judgment of affirmance brought here as a statement of facts in the nature
of a special verdict, -present the sole question for determination, apart from exceptions duly taken to rulings on
the admission or rejection of evidence-do the findings
of fact support the judgment? Stringfellow v. Cain, 99
U. S.610; Neslin v. Wells Fargo Co., 104 U. S.428; Eilers
v. Boatman et al., 111 U. S.356; Idaho & Oregon Land Imp.
Co. v. Bradbury, 132 U. S.509; Mammoth Mining Co. v.
Salt Lake Machine Co., 151 U. S.450; Haws v. Victoria
Copper Min. Co., 160 U. S.303; Gildersleeve v. New Mexico
Min.Co., 161 U. S.573; Bear Lake & River Water Works &
Irr. Co. v. Garland, 164 U. S.18; Harrison v. Pefea, 168
U. S.323.
The contract of August 27, 1907, was in the alternative.
Appellant had no right to a choice of its alternatives unless appellees should fail without any fault of appellant.
When by its oWn wrong appellant brought about the condition complained of, it was properly denied specific performance.
Appellant's default in failing and refusing to dismiss action 4541 before January 1, 1908, and its tenacious maintenance of the suit as a pending action with its consequences, was ample and sufficient reason for the court's
refusing decree of specific performance. Whiteman v.
Perkins, 56 Nebraska, 181, 185.
The Nebraska decree could -not control the court in
Aizona. Ellinwood v. Marietta Chair Co., 158 U. S. i05,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

107; Fall v. Eastin,-215 U. S. 11; Watts v. Waddle, .6 Pet.
389; Watkins-v. Holman, 16 Pet. 25; Fall v. Fall, 113 N. W.
Rep. 175; Enos V. Hunter, 9 Illinois, 214; Wilson v.
Braden, 36 S. E. Rep. 367; Wimer v. Wimer, 82 Virginia,
890;'-Lindley v. O'Reilly, 50 N. J. L. 636; Bullock v. Bullo6k, 52 N. J. Eq. 561.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit by the appellant for the specific performance of a contract made between it and C. C. Miller,
A. V. Miller, now deceased, and G. B. Lasbury, hereafter
called the vendors, for the sale by the latter parties, on
certain conditions and terms, of 175,000 shares of stock
in the appellant, or in the alternative of all their interest
in the West Brooklyn and certain other mining claims.
The bill alleges the failure of the condition referred' to and
seeks a conveyance of the interest in the mining claims
and an account. It was dismissed by the court below and
theThe
plaintiff
facts appealed.
found, abridged, are these. The
vendors
owned the mining claims and had given an option to purchase the West I3rooklyn claim and another not concerned
here to the United Verde Copper Company, which was
extended and kept in force up to January 1, 1908. In
1906, a stockholder in the appellant had begun a suit on
behalf of-himself and others, afterwards amended so as
to make the appellant plaintiff, to have the Millers and
Lasbury, also stockholders, declared trustees for the appellant of the mining claim now in question. Miller, on
the other hand, had sued the appellantg for work done
upon the Brooklyn claim. By way of compromise the
present contract was made. It recited the two suits and
the conditional sale of the West Brooklyn claim to the
United Verde Copper Company and provided in consideration of the dismissal and settlement of the foregoing

BROOKLYN MINING CO. v. MILLER.
227 U. S.

Opinion of-the Court.

causes of action that if the sale to the United Verde Company was consummated by January 1, 1908, the, above
mentioned transfer of stock should be made, &c., but that
if for any reason the sale should not be consummated then
the conveyance now sought for should take place.*
The contract in full is as follows:
Whereas, an action is now pending in the District Court of Yavapai
County, Arizona, entitled Brooklyn Mining & Milling Company el al.
v. Charles C. Miller, Alonzo V. Miller and George B. Lasbury, which
action relates to the title of the West Brooklyn, East Brooklyn and
South Brooklyn Mining Claitis located in said county and Territory,
and relates to an accoun ting for ores and minerals taken therefrom, and
"Whereas, The said Charles C. Miller, Alonzo V. Miller and George
1,. asbury have made a conditional sale of,the. above named West
Brooklyn Mining claim for the sum of ten thousand dollars to the
United Verde Copper Company, and
"Whereas, an action is pending in the District Court of. Yavapai
County, Arizona, entitled Charles C. Miller- v. Brooklyn Mining &
Milling Company for several thousand'dollars claimed to be due and
,)wing to the said Charles C. Miller for services-performed by him and
Alonzo V. Miller for the sai(I Brooklyn Mining & Milling Company, and
"Whereas, It is the desire of the parties' connected with the foregoing
causes of act ion to settle same, and to adjust the matters of difference
between the parties in connection therewith.;
"Therefore, In consideration of the'dismissal and settlement of the
foregoing causes of action it is hereby stipulated anf agreed by and between the lrooklya Mining & Milling Company and Charles C. Miller,
Alonzo V. Miller and George B. Lasbury that if the sale of the West
BrooklynI Mining claim to the United Verde Copper Company is consumninated on or before the first-day of January, 1908,.the said Charles
C. Miller, Alonzo V. Miller and George B. Lasbury are to transfer
and deliver to the said Brooklyn Mining & Milling Company one
hundred seventy-five thousand shares (175,000) of stock in said Brooklyn Mining & Milling Company, free and clear of all liens dr incum.,
)brancewhatsoevNr; it being understood that said transfer of stock 1A
to include all of the holdings of the said Charles C; Miller, Alonzo V.
Miller and George B. Lasbury in the Brooklyn Mining & Milling Comapany, and the said parties are to receive therefor the sum of 3 (Three)
cents per share for said stock "and in addition thereto Charles C. Miller,
Alozo V. Miller and George 11. Lasbury are to pay to the Brooklyn
Minin, & Milling Company the sum of eight thousand, five hundred
*

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

The suit by Miller was dismissed and a dismissal of the
company's action. Was requested, but it was declined.
Then on January 2, 1908, the vendors, alleging consummation of the contract with the United Verde Company,
tendered performance, which was declined on the ground
dollars ($8,500.00) out of the proceeds derived from the sale of the said
West Brooklyn mining claim, in addition thereto the said Charles C.
Miller, Alonzo V. Miller and George B. Lasbury are to convey all of
their right, title and interest in and to the East Brooklyn, South Brooklyn, North I1rooklyn, Empress and Midway mining claims, and said
transfer shall contain the warranty that the assessment work has been
done for the year 1907 upon the Empress, Midway and North Brooklyn and the said Brooklyn Mining & Milling Company shall pay the
said assessment work at its reasonable value. The said Charles C.
Miller, Alonzo V. Miller and George B. Lasbury agree to do the assessment work for the year 1907, on the East and South Brooklyn mining
claims, and said assessment work so to be performed is to be paid for
by the Brooklyn Mining & Milling Company at its reasonable value.
It is further stipulated and agreed by and between the parties hereto
that if for any reason the sale of the West Brooklyn claim to the United
Verde Copper Company by the said Charles C. Miller, Alonzo V. Miller
and George B. Lasbury shall not b.e consummated on or before the first
day of January, 1908, then the said Charles C. Miller, Alonzo V. Miller
and George B. Lasbury are to convey to the Brooklyn Mining & Milling
Company all of their right, title and interest in and to the West Brooklyn, East Brooklyn, South Brooklyn, North Brooklyn, Empress and
Midway mining claims, and the assessment work on the North Brooklyn, Empress and Midway claims for the year 1907 is to be paid by the
said Brooklyn Mining Company at its fair and reasonable value.
"It is understood by and between th'e parties hereto that the foregoing does not concede or admit any of the allegations contained in the
pleadings of said causes of action, but the agreement is entered into for
the purpose of adjusting the matters of difference between said partks
and avoiding further costs and expenses to the parties hereto.
"In Witness Whereof, We have hereunto set our hands this 27th day
of August, A. D. 1907.
"C. C. Miller.
"A. V. Miller.
"G. B. Lasbury.
"Brooklyi) Mining & Milling Company,
"By Chas. AV. Pearsall, President."

BROOKLYN MINING CO. v. MILLER.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that it did not comply with the terms of the present agreement, and there was a second refusal to dismiss the company's suit. On February 15, however, it did dismiss
that suit and ten minutes later began the present one.
This, was tried in March, 1909, and the court found that
the sale to the United Verde Company had not been consummated and that the failure was caused by the refusal
of the plaintiff to dismiss its former above mentioned
suit, which, it will be remembered, impeached the title
of the vendors. (The vendors were not estopped by
earlier having alleged consummation.) The court, however, instead of dismissing the bill outright made an
alternative decree that it be dismissed if the plaintiff did
not assent within thirty days to certain terms looking to a
carrying out of the sale to the United Verde Company.
The plaintiff refused its assent and the Supreme Court,
accepting the finding of the court below, affirmed the dismissal, of the bill. This disposes of the case except in one
particular to be mentioned. Harrisonv. Perea, 168 U. S.
311, 323.
On January 28, 1908, the appellant brought a suit in
Nebraska for specific performance of the same agreement
now sued upon here, and on February 8, 1909, it was decided that the vendors must convey their interest in the
West Brooklyn claim, as against Ada M. Miller, grantee
of A. V. Miller, and Lasbury, the only parties served, and
a master appointed by the court executed a conveyance
accordingly. The appellant sought to avail itself of this
decree and conveyance. But on December 23, 1908, it
was agreed in open court in consideration of the defendants aflowing a continuane6 of the.present Arizona eause
that no judgment that might be obtained in Nebraska
should be pleaded. The court properly held the appellaiit
to its agreement. There was a cross complaint by the
appellees in the answer to which the decree and colveyance were pleaded, t)ft fhe Supreme Court, afte, rcfer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

ring to Fall v. Eastin, 215 U. S. 1, disposed of the matter
by noticing that no relief was given on the cross complaint
and that specific performance was denied on other grounds.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. WINSLOW.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTAICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 620. Argued January 10, 1913.-Decided February 3, 1913.
On appeals under the Criminal Appeals Act of 1907 this court has no
jurisdiction to review the interpretation of the indictment by the
lower court, United States v. Patten, 226 U. S.525, and if that court
has construed the count as alleging a combination of a particular
date to be in violation of the Sherman Law, without regard to subsequent acts, this court cannot pass upon the validity of those acts.
A combination for greater efficiency does not necessarily violate the
Sherman Anti-trust Act.
Where each of several groups are carrying on a legal business of making
patented machines Which do not compete with each other, although
the machines of all the groups are used by manufacturers of the
same article, such as shoes, a combination of the several groups does
not violate 'theSherman Anti-trust Act.
Exclusion of competitors from making the patented article is of the very
essence of the right conferred by the patent.
Where the share in interstate commerce does not appear in the record,
and the machines in question are not alleged to be types of all the
machines used in manufacturing the article for which they are made,
the Government cannot claim that a specified proportion of the business was put into a single hand.
The disintegration aimed at by the Sherman Anti-trust Act does not
extend to reducing all manufacture to isolated units of the lowest
degree.
The Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, c.2564, 34 Stat. 1246, is a
special provision and, as it is not mentioned in the repealing section
of the Judicial Code of 1911 and is not superseded by any other
regulation of the matter, it was not repealed by the Judicial Code.
United States, Petitioner, 226 U. S.420.
The'District Court rightly held that the counts under review of the indictment against various persons for combining their businesses of

