OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

JAMES, A BANKRUPT, v. STONE & COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 142.

Submitted January 23, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

Under the Bankruptcy Act the only appeal from a judgment granting

or refusing a discharge is from the Bankruptcy Court to the Circuit
Court of Appeals. There is no appeal from the Circuit Court of
Appeals to this court.
Appeal from 181 Fed. Rep. 476, dismissed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of appeals from orders granting or refusing discharges in
bankruptcy proceedings, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. H. L. Stevens and Mr. Henry R. Miller for appellant.
No appearance for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, affirming the
judgment of the District Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of North Carolina refusing to grant
a discharge in bankruptcy to John L. James, Bankrupt.
So much of ยง 14 of the Bankruptcy Act, which provides
for the granting of discharges in bankruptcy, as is applicable to this case reads as follows:
. "The judge shall hear the application for a discharge, . . .
and discharge the applicant unless he
has .
.
at any time subsequent to the firstday of the
four months immediately preceding the filing of the petition transferred, removed, destroyed, or concealed . ..

JAMES v. STONE.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

any of his property with intent to hinder, delay, or defraud
his creditors."
The District Court held that the bankrupt had concealed property with intent to hinder and delay his
creditors subsequently to the first day of the four months
immediately preceding the filing of the petition and entered an order refusing to grant the discharge. 175 Fed.
Rep. 894. Upon appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed that order. 181 Fed. Rep. 476. The case was
then brought to this court by appeal.
We are unable to discover anything in the Bankruptcy
Act which permits an appeal in such a case from the
Circuit Court of Appeals to this court. Under ยง 24a
this court is given appellate jurisdiction of controversies
arising in bankruptcy proceedings from the courts of
bankruptcy from which there is appellate jurisdiction in
other cases. This section has been the subject of adjudication in this court in a number of cases, and it is
held that controversies in bankruptcy proceedings, as
the terms are therein used, do not mean mere steps in
proceedings in bankruptcy but embrace controversies
which are not of that inherent character, although arising
in the course of proceedings in bankruptcy. Hewit v.
Berlin Machine Works, 194 U. S. 296, 300; Coder v. Arts,
213 U. S. 223, 234; Tefft, Weller & Co. v. Munsuri, 222
U. S. 114, 118.
Subdivision b of ยง 24 gives the Circuit Courts of Appeal
jurisdiction to superintend and revise in matters of law
the proceedings of courts of bankruptcy within their jurisdiction. Section 25 concerns appeals in bankruptcy
proceedings of which an application for discharge is one.
By the terms of subdivision a of that section an appeal
is given to the Circuit Court of Appeals, first, from a
judgment adjudging or refusing to adjudge the defendant
a bankrupt; second, from a judgment granting or denying
a discharge, and third, from a judgment allowing or

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
227 TT. S.

Syllabus.

rejecting a claim of $500 or over.

Subdivision b of ยง 25

regulates appeals from the Circuit Court of Ap)peals to
this court, and is confined to decisions of the Circuit
Courts of Appeals allowing or rejecting a claim under the
act, first, where the amount in controversy exceeds the
sum of $2,000 and the question involved is one which
might have been taken on appeal or error to this court
from the highest court of a State; or, second, where a
Justice of this court shall certify that in his opinion the
determination of the question involved in the ellowanCe
or rejection of the claim is essential to a uniform, construetion of the act. Section 25 further provides that Co01troversies may be certified to the Supreme Court frcur.
other courts of the United States and that the Supreni
Court may exercise jurisdiction thereof, and issue writs
of certiorari pursuant to the laws of the United States.
It will be noticed that the only app.eal in bankruptcy
proceedings from a judgment grantir, or refusing a discharge is from the bankruptcy court to the Circuit Court
of Appeals.
The present appeal must therefore be diwnissed.

LOVELL, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY
KNIGHT, v. NEWMAN & S01,T
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAF .S

OF

1C'0,3 THE FIFTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 593.

Submitted January 13, 1913.--Dedeed FeV ' uary 24, 19,3.

Where the jurisdiction of the Federal court jf a suit brought by a
trustee in bankruptcy rests upon diverss citizcn hip alone the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals i n, if, however, the
petition also discloses as an additional ground of jurisdiction that
the case arises under the laws of the United States, the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals is not final but can be reviewed by
this court.

