(ORDOVA

v. l"O11GUERAS.

Statement of the Case.

227 U. S.

such performance no rights vest. It follows that the
mother of Effie Bell Wadkins acquired no interest in the
land.
Judgment affirmed.

CORDOVA ,.FOLGUERAS Y RIJOS.
DUMEY v. HERNANDEZ Y BELLO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PORTO RICO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.

Nos. 141, 160.

Argued January 23, 1913.--Decided February 24, 1913.

During the lifetime of the ancestor no heir has a vested right to inherit
from him; and heirs only have such rights of inheritance as are
given to them by the laws in force at their ancestor's death.
It is not an interference with vested rights to prescribe the mode of
procedure, or the time within which to enforce them, provided
reasonabletime be given therefor.
Under the laws of Porto Rico, while Law Eleven of'Toro as to effect
of acts of recognition of rights of natural children may be in force,
the provisions of §§ 133 and 137 of the Code of 1902 must be complied with in order to enforce such rights; and this applies to persons
whose alleged parent died prior to the enactment of the Code.
Decisions of the courts of Spain rendered after 1898, construing Spanish law applicable to possessions ceded to the United States, although
entitled to great consideration, do not preclude the local court, from
reaching an independent judgment.
16 Porto Rico, 593, affirmed.
5 Porto Rico Fed. Rep. 191, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the law
of Porto Rico in regard to actions for acknowledgment
of natural children, are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Mr. N. B. K. Pettingill for appellants.
No appearance for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

court.
The first of these suits was brought by the appellant,
in 1908, it would seem, to have herself declared a natural
daughter and entitled to a share of the estate of Don
Santiago Rijos Correa, who died on April 29, 1869. The
appellees demurred to the complaint on the grounds adverted to in Burnet v. Desmornes, 226 U. S. 145. By the
Civil Code of 1889, Art. 137, actions for the acknowledgment of natural children can be instituted only during
the life of the presumed parents, or if the parent dies during the minority of the child within the first four years of
its majority. If the appellant was not of age at the death
of Correa, she reached majority at the latest in 1893, and
the action was barred in 1897. (Under the Code of 1902,
§ 199, the action is allowed only for two years after coming of age.) The Supreme Court sustained the demurrer
and dismissed the complaint.
The second suit, begun in June, 1909, had a similar object. The appellant alleged that she was born on August 4,
1875, and was a natural child of Damian Morell; that he
left her mother and married in 1880; in 1889 removed to
Mallorca, and died on December 29,- 1899. On demurrer
the bill was dismissed by the District Court, following
the. authority of the foregoing decision of the Supreme
Court. (We may assume that as the plaintiff retained her
domicil in Porto Rico and as a considerable part of the
estate consisted of land in the same place, the possible
bearing on the case of the removal of Morell to Spain
need not be coisidered.)
The appellants say that at the time of their birth the

CORDOVA v. FOLGUERAS.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

law in force was Law Eleven of Toro (Law 1, Title 5,
Book 10, Novisima Recopilacion); that under that law
they acquired the status and rights of natural children
by the facts alleged in their complaints, Without the need
of acknowledgment by public document or judicial approval as required in the Civil Code of 1889, Art. 133,
and so that they were entitled to sue for their share of the
inheritance at once.
So far as The second case goes, perhaps it would be a
sufficient answer to say that during the lifetime of an ancestor no heir has a vested right to inherit from him; that
the Civil Code of 1889 confines the right of natural children to inherit to those children that are acknowledged,
§ 134, that is, presumably, to those that are acknowledged
as it provides; and since heirs have only such rights of
inheritance as are given to them by the laws in force at
their ancestor's death, that there is no reason why the
appellant should take greater ones because she had been
informally acknowledged before 1889.
But in the first case the alleged parent died before the
Civil Code was enacted, and so it would seem that the
plaintiff had ground for claiming rights by inheritance
vested before that date. But this claim was met by the
Supreme Court by a reference to the statement of motives
for the Civil Code which reads that if it was proper to
give effect to rights acquired under prior legislation, no
consideration of justice required that the subsequent ex,ercise of them 'as well as their duration and the proceedings for enforcing them should be exempted from the provisions of the Code;' and by the ;interpretation of the
fourth Transitory Provision (following Art. 1976). This
reads in the official translation, "Actions and rights arising before this Code became operative, and not exercised,
shall continue with the extension and according to the
terms recognized by prior legislation, but shall be subject, with regard to the exercise, duration, and proceedings

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

for enforcing them, to the provisions of this Code." The
court interpreted these words as meaning that, in order
to enforce the rights of a natural child when there was
not a solemn recognition but only acts tending to establish paternity under the Laws of Toro, an action of filiation must be brought as required byArticles 133 and 137
of the Code.
In other words, while, under the Laws of Toro, the
acts of recognition alleged, although not amounting to a
solemn recognition, may have entitled a natural child
to sue for her share of the inheritance and to prove the
acts in the same suit, the Code requires a preliminary proceeding to prove those acts and to declare their effect,
and limits the time within which such proceeding can be
brought. This hardly can be called an interference with
vested rights, when a reasonable time for bringing the
preliminary proceeding is allowed. In the present case
it does not appear that the plaintiff had not reasonable
time for an action after the Code went into effect.
It is objected that the Supreme Court of Spain, has
construed the fourth Transitory Provision otherwise, as
has been recognized by the Supreme Court: of Porto Rico,
Gual v. Bonafoux, 15 Porto Rico, 545, 555, referring to a
judgment of April 11, 1906, but citing as contradictory
one of December 19, 1902, that it deemed correct. The
Spanish decisions, however, have not the same effect as
do those construing a statute subsequently copied by
another State. They were rendered after Porto Rico had
ceased to be subject to Spanish jurisdiction, and although
entitled to great consideration, which no doubt they received, they do not preclude the local court from exercising an independent judgment. The construction adopted
in Porto Rico at least does no violence to the words of
the statute; it concerns local affairs under a system with
which the court of the Island is called on constantly to
deal, and we are not prepared, as against the weight prop-

LUKE '.v.
227 U. S.

SMITH.

Counsel for Appellants.

erly attributed to the local decision, to say that'it is wrong.
Gray v. Taylor, ante, p. 51. How the first case should have
been dealt with if it had appeared in the record that the
plaintiff came of age before the Code went into effect we
are not called upon: to consider. I The construction adopted
:might give trouble unless a right to bring an action of
filiation within a reasonable time were implied. But we
have to remember that the law-making power of Spain
was not restricted, in the way familiar to us.
141. Judgment affirmed.
160. Decree affirmed.

LUKE. v. SMITH.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY
OF ARIZONA.

No. 150. Argued January 27, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.
The Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona having, in construing
the recording statute, followed the decisions of the courts of Texas
from whose laws the statute was copied, ,and held that one buying
with notice that the holder of the legal title held it in trust for others
took with notice notwithstanding the act, this court sees no reason
for not following the general rule that it will follow the construction
given by'the local court to a local statute.
Service of the complaint in an action brought to establish an equitable
lien on property superior to the rights of all 'parties defendant is
notice to a defendant having knowledge of the suit.
13 Arizona, 155, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the recording act of Arizona and what constitutes notice of
lien to a purchaser of real estate, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Walter Bennettfor appellants.

