LUKE '.v.
227 U. S.

SMITH.

Counsel for Appellants.

erly attributed to the local decision, to say that'it is wrong.
Gray v. Taylor, ante, p. 51. How the first case should have
been dealt with if it had appeared in the record that the
plaintiff came of age before the Code went into effect we
are not called upon: to consider. I The construction adopted
:might give trouble unless a right to bring an action of
filiation within a reasonable time were implied. But we
have to remember that the law-making power of Spain
was not restricted, in the way familiar to us.
141. Judgment affirmed.
160. Decree affirmed.

LUKE. v. SMITH.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY
OF ARIZONA.

No. 150. Argued January 27, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.
The Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona having, in construing
the recording statute, followed the decisions of the courts of Texas
from whose laws the statute was copied, ,and held that one buying
with notice that the holder of the legal title held it in trust for others
took with notice notwithstanding the act, this court sees no reason
for not following the general rule that it will follow the construction
given by'the local court to a local statute.
Service of the complaint in an action brought to establish an equitable
lien on property superior to the rights of all 'parties defendant is
notice to a defendant having knowledge of the suit.
13 Arizona, 155, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the recording act of Arizona and what constitutes notice of
lien to a purchaser of real estate, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Walter Bennettfor appellants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Mr. Lewis M. Ogden for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill brought by the appellee. to establish and
foreclose a lien on certain land, and already has been before this court. Smith v. Rainey, 209 U. S. 53. At that
hearing the land was decided to be partnership assets as
between Smith and Rainey and as such subject to a lien
for repayment of advances made to the firm by Smith.
The present appellants claim a right in Rainey's interest,
paramount to Smith's, by virtue of an execution sale on
a judgment against Rainey. The material facts are few.
The title to the land by deed on record stood in Smith
as to two undivided thirds and in Rainey as to the other
third. About April 29, 1897, Smith and Rainey made the
agreement construed in 209 U. S. 53, out of which arose
the partnership and the consequent lien before mentioned.
On June 11, 1902, the appellants began a suit against
Rainey upon an individual debt of his and attached his
interest in the land. On June 11, 1903, they got judgment.
On July 18, 1903, Smith began the present action making
Frank Luke a defendant as claiming some lien alleged by
Smith to be subordinate to his own. On August 6, 1903,
an order of sale was issued in the suit of the appellants, on
September 8 the land was sold to the Lukes for the amount
of their judgment, on December 29 the sheriff made return, and on June 20, 1904, there having been no redemption, executed a deed to the Lukes. The Lukes had no
notice of Smith's rights earlier or other than'that derived
from the beginning of the present suit.
I The statute of Arizona makes all conveyances of land
and all deeds of trust and mortgages void, as against creditors and subsequeilt purchasers for value without notice,
unless recorded, but leaves them valid as against purchasers with notice or without valuable consideration.

LUKE v. SMITH.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court;

Rev. Stat., 1901, Paragraph 749. The Supreme Court of
Arizona, starting from the admitted fact thai the statute
was copied from the laws of Texas, after examining the
Texas decisions concluded that when the.debtor holds the
legal title in trust for others with whose funds and for
whose use it was purchased, a purchaser at a sale on execution who has notice of their rights before his purchase will
take subject to them notwithstanding' the foregoing act,
The court thought that the principle applied to such equitable rights as Smith was decided to have, in 209 U. S. 53,
and hence concluded that if the Lukes had notice before
the sale on'September 8, 1903, from the original complaint
in the present suit, Smith must prevail. On this construetion of a local statute as well as on some subordinate
matters of construction not so much pressed, we see no
reason for not following the local court in accordance with
a leaning many times declared. Jones v. Springer; 226
U. S. 148, 157. Gray v. Taylor, ante, p. 51. It is perhaps
doubtful whether the instrument creating the partnership
and making the land partnership assets could have been
recorded; assuming, as the appellants urge, that' the test
of trusts that are outside of Paragraph 749 is that they do
not arise from an instrument that might be put on recorda test not definitely accepted by the"Arizona court. Sonfe
mention was made of a mortgage executed by Rainey and
afterwards discharged as giving additionalcolor to Rainey's
record title. But it is enough to say that the Lukes do
not appear to have known of it before the execution sale
to them.
Hence the only question is whether the complaint as
originally filed gave notice of Smith's rights. It did not
set forth the contract, but alleged it to-have been made
in writing and alleged that it was agreed that the plaintiff
should advance all the money necessary for the improveinent of the land and should be repaid all sums advanced
by him for that purpose or for the purchase of the land,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

227 UM S.

&c.;, with interest, from sales of the land. It prayed that
the plaintiff be declared to have an equitable mortgage
lien upon Rainey's interest, paramount to Luke's title
whatever it might be. This obviously was enough to put
the Lukes upon inquiry as to the precise character of a
contract that was alleged, and 'truly alleged as it turns
out, to lay the foundation for an equitable interest superior to theirs.
Judgment affirmed.

PEOPLE OF PORTO RICO v. TITLE GUARANTY
AND SURETY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 154.

Argued January 30, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

In this case held that a bond given in pursuance of an ordinance, for
faithful performance of a contract, was solely for the complete result
at the end of the period specified, and that it did not permit a recovery of the whole penalty upon any intermediate breach.
Breaches of subordinate requirements, which are specified in a contract
for a public utility and .bond foir performance and are simply means
to al end, cannot be made the basis of recovering the whole penalty
after final completion or after cancellation by the obligee of *the
franchise.
If within time for completion of a public utility authorized by ordinance, the municipality itself makes performance impossible, it cannot, under any system of law in Porto Rico or elsewhere, recover
upon the bond for failure to perform.
i80 Fed. Rep. 641, affirmed.

THE facts, which'involve the liability of a surety company on a bond given for faithful performance of a contract, are stated in the opinion.

