ZAVELO v. REEVES.
227 U. S.

625

Syllabus.

America v. Banks, 101 U. S. 240, 247; Doe v. Ford, 3 Ad.
& El. 649,; Den ex dent. Wooden v. Shotwell, 24 N. J. L.
789; Connor v. McMurray, 2 Allen (Mass.), 202, 204:
Doyle v. Coburn, 6 Allen, 71, 72; Merriam v. Boston &0'c.
RailroadCo., 117 Massachusetts, 241, 244; Brick v. Campbell, 122 N. Y. 337, 346; Kennedy v. McCartney, 4 Porter
(Ala.), 141, 158.
Since it is entirely plain, in the case before us, that the
title to the lands in question was retained by the United
States for reasons of public policy, and in order to protect
the Indians against their own improvidence, it follows as
matter of course that a conveyance made by one of them,
before the title was vested in him pursuant to the act of
1905, was in the very teeth of the policy of the law, and
could not operate as a conveyance, either by its primary
force or by Way of estoppel.
Judgment affirmed.

ZAVELO v. REEVES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.

No. 299.

Argued January 7, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

In the absence of any proof to that effect in the record, a promise by
the bankrupt made between the petition and the discharge to pay
the balance of his provable debt to one of his creditors who advanced
money to enable him to effect a composition without obtaining any
undue preference over the other creditor,, will not be regarded as
,in act of extortion or attempted extortion inviolation of § 291, 5
of the Bankruptcy Act, prohibiting acting or forbearing to aet in
bankruptcy proceedings.

A discharge, while releasing the bankrupt from legal liability to pay a
provable debt, leaves him under tmoral obligation that is sufficient
to support. a new promise to pay it.
l'he theory of bankruptcy is that the disblrge does not 'destroy the
debt but does destro" the remedy.
VOL.

CCXXVII

--

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

As a general rule, the discharge when granted relates back to the inception of the proceeding, and the bankrupt becomes a free man as
to new transactions as of the date of the transfer of his property to
the trustee.
This court by promulgating General Orders and Forms in Bankruptcy
construed § 63a 4 as confining the discharge to provable debts existing on the day of the petition and having it relate back thereto.
Under the Bankruptcy Act of 1898 an express ptomise to pay a provable debt is good although made after the .petition and before the
discharge.
Obligations created after the filing of the petition and before the discharge arc not provable under § 63 and therefore are not included ifi
the discharge.
As § 12 of the Bankruptcy Act requires that money for effecting the
composition be de)osited before the application to authorize it, it
contemplates that the 'bankrupt may acquire such money by use
of his credit.
171 Alabama, 401, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of an express

promise by the bankrupt to pay a provable debt made
after the petition and before the discharge, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Oscar R. Hundley for plaintiff in error submitted.
Mr. Samuel A. Putman for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

Defendants in error sued plaintiff in error November 22,
1907, in the City Court of Birmingham, Alabama, declaring upon the common counts for moneys due December 10,
1906, and February 19, 1906, and by an amendment declared upon a promissory note for about $250 which was a
part of a claim of the defendants in error that antedated
the bankruptcy of the plaintiff in error. The defendant
(now plaintiff in error) pleaded that on November 22,
1905, he filed in the District Court of the United States

ZAVELO 'v. REEVES.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for the Northern District of Alabama, his petition iin
bankruptcy; that said court had jurisdiction of said bankruptcy proceedings, and duly adjudicated him a bankrupt
on that date; that subsequently he offered a composition
to his creditors, and the offer was accepted and a composition made in. said proceedings and duly confirmed by
said District Court February 6, 1906, a certified copy
of the decree of confirmation being attached to and made
a part of the plea; that the plaintiffs were then creditors of the bankrupt, and as such accepted the offer of
composition and were paid a dividend thereon; that the
claim sued on herein is a part of and was included in said
claim on which said dividend was paid, and the claim
herein is barred by said proceedings and discharged by
said composition. The plaintiffs replied, (a) that on
.January 1, 1906 (which date was after the adjudication
and before the discharge), defendant promised that if
plaintiffs would lend him $500 for use in paying the consideration of a composition with his creditors in said
bankruptcy proceedings, he, defendant, when said composition was confirmed, -would pay plaintiffs the balance
of the demand sued on, after deducting therefrom plaintiffs' share of the consideration of such composition; and
plaintiffs averred that they accepted defendant's said
offer and promise, and did so lend him the said sum of
$500 for the said purpose; and (b) for further replication,
that after the filing of defendant's said petition in bankruptcy, and after he had been adjudged a bankrupt, defendant promised plaintiffs that he would pay what he
owed, them, being the same demand sued on hereiti, when
his composition in bankruptcy was confirmed, and-that
plaintiffs accepted said promise. To these replications
the defendant demurred. The City Court overruled the
demurrers and proceeded to a trial of the issues of fact,
which resulted in favor of the plaintiffs upon both the
COM1111n Counts and the note.

The defendant ap)ealed

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Opirion of the Court.

227 U. S.

to the Supreme Court of Alabama, which affirmed the
judgment. 171 Alabama, 401. Whereupon he sued out
the present writ of error.
The case is brought here under § 709, Rev. Stat., the
contention being that a right or immunity set up and
claimed by the plaintiff in error under the Federal Bankruptey Act was denied by the state court. See Li1nton v.
Stanton, 12 How. 423; Mays v. Fritton, 131 U. S., Appendix
cxiv; Hill v. Harding, 107 U. S. 631; Rector v. City Deposit Bank, 200 U. S.405.
It is not contended that the record imports a secret or
fraudulent agreement between the bankrupt and the
plaintiffs at the expense of other creditors. The state
court construed the replications as not averring secrecy
or fraud, saying (171 Alabama, 408)--" That an advantage
accrued to plaintiffs ais the result of the loan is true; but
that it caine as a result of fraud, collusion, or extortion,
cannot be read from these replications. On the contrary,
the advantage, so far as the plea(ings show, was the result
of the advancement made by way of the loan described.
There is nothing in the replications on which to rest a con('Iusion that anything other than the loan induced the
promise relied on for recovery here."
This construction of the pleadings is not disputed here.
We therefore are not in this case concerned with the general
equitable principle that composition agreements arc invalid if based upon or procured. by a secret arrangement
with one or more favored creditors, in violation of the
e'quality and reciprocity upon which such an agreenent is
•\,)ve1ly )ts.d. Story Eq.,urisp. (9th ed.), §§ 37,s, 379;
(lorke v. hite, 12 Pet. 178, 199; JVood v. Barkcr,IL. I. I
EL1 . 139; McKewan. v. Sanderson, L R. 20 Eq. 65; Biiscll
v. Jones, L. R. 4 Q. B. 49; Ex parte Nicholson, L. R. 5 (h.
A1pp. 332: ('rossleq v. Moore, 40 N. .1. L. 27, 34; Feldmatn v.
(r'arnblc, 26 N. .1. Eq. 494; Dicks v. Andrews, 132 Georgia,
601, 604.

ZAVELO v. REEVES.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Of the questions raised, only three deserve notice.
(1) It is contended that the transaction set up in the
former of the two replications mentioned was in violation
of the prohibition of § 29b 5 of the Bankruptcy Act (30
Stat., c. 541, pp. 544, 455), which declares that-"A person shall be "punished, by imprisonment for a period not
to exceed two years, upon conviction of the offense of having knowingly and fraudulently

.

.

.

extorted or at-

tempted to extort any money or property from any person
as a consideration for acting or forbearing to act in bankruptcy proceedings." It is sufficient to say that we are
unable to see ih this record anything of extortion or attempted extortion.
(2) It is contended as to both replications that although
a debt barred by discharge in bankruptcy may be revived
by a new promise made after the discharge, this cannot
be done by a new promise made in the interim between
the adjudication and the discharge.
It is settled, however, that a discharge, while releasing
the bankrupt from legal liability to pay a debt that was
provable in the bankruptcy, leaves him -under a moral*
obligation that is sufficient to support a new promise to
pay the debt. And in reason, as well as by the greater
weight of authority, the date of the new promise is immaterial. The theory is that the discharge destroys the
remedy but not the indebtedness; that, generally speaking,
it relates to the inception of the proceedings, and the
transfer of the bankrupt's estate for the benefit of creditors
takes effect as Of the same time; that the bankrupt becomes a free man from the timie to which the discharge
relates, and is as competent to bind hiiuself by a promise
to pay an antecedent oblh: tion, whic]l otherwise would
not be actionable beca' , of the dischrge, as he is to
enter into any new enggement. And --o, under other
bankrupt acts, it has been commonly h,-., that a promise
to pay a provable debt, notNwithstand.
the discharge,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

is as effectual when made after the filing of the petition
and before the discharge as if made after the discharge.
Kirkpatrick v. Tattersall, 13 M. & W. 766; Otis v. Gazlin,
31 Maine, 567; Hornthal v. McRae, 67 Nor. Cat. 21; Fraley
v. Kelley, 67 Nor. Car'. 78; Hill v. Trainer, 49 Wisconsin,
537; Knapp v. Hoyt, 57 Iowa, 591 ;42 Am. Rep. 59; Lanagin
v. Nowland, 44 Arkansas, 84; Wiggin v. Hodgdon, 63 N. H.
39; Griel v. Solomon, 82 Alabama, 85; Jersey City Ins. Co.
v. Archer, 122 N. Y. 376.
Our attention is not called to any decision in point
arising under the present Bankruptcy Act; but we deem it
clear that the same rule should be applied. If there is any
distinction between this and former acts that would require a different rule, it must arise from the time to which
the discharge is made to relate. As to this, § 17 of the
act of 1898 declares that-"A discharge in. bankruptcy
shall release a bankrupt from all his provable debts,"
with certain exceptions not now pertinent. For the
definition of "provable debts" we are referred to § 63,
which is set forth in full in the mArgin.' Of the several
S c. 63. DEBTS WUCH MAY BE PiRoVED.-a. Debts of the bankrupt
may be proved and allowed against his estate which are (1) a fixed liability, as evidenced by a judgment or an instrument in writing, isolutely owing at the tinie of the filing of the petition against him,
whether then payable or not, with any interest thereon which would
have been recoverable at that date or with a rebate of interest upon such
as were not then payable and did not bear interest; (2) due as costs
taxable against an involuntary bankrupt who was at the time of the
filing of the petition against him plaintiff in a cause of action which
would pass to thie trustee and which the trustoe declines to prosecuteafter notice; (3) founded upon a claim for taxable costs incurred in good
faith by a creditor before the filing of the petition in an action to rccover a prova)le debt; (4) founded upon an open account, or upon a
contract express or implied; and (5) founded upon provablc'debts reduced to judgments after the filing of the petition and before the conisideration, of the bankrupt's application for a discharge, less costs incurred and interests accrued after the filing of the petition and up to
the time of the entry of such judgments.
b. Unliquidatecd claims against the bankrupt may, pltrsuant d, ap-

ZAVELO v. REEVES.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

classes of liabilities, those in clauses 1, 2 and 3 are in terms
described as existing at or before the filing of the petition.
Clause 5 re~lates to liabilities "founded upon provable
debts reduced to judgment after the filing of'the petition,"
etc.; plainly meaning that they arose before its filing.
Clause 4 describes simply debts that are "founded upon
an open account, or upon a contract express or implied,"
not in terms referring to the time of the inception of the
indebtedness. But, reading the whole of § 63, and considering it in connection with the spirit and purpose of
the act, we deem it plain that the debts founded upon
open account or upon contract, express or implied, that
are provable under § 63a 4 include only such as existed
at the time of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy.
This court in effect adopted that construction when, in
promulgating the General Orders and Forms in Bankruptcy, 1898, under the authority conferred by § 30, a
form of discharge was prescribed (Forms in Bankruptcy,
No. 59), by which it is ordered that the bankrupt "be
discharged from all debts and claims which are made
provable by said acts against his estate, and which
existed on the
day of
, A. D.
, on which
day the petition for adjudication was filed him; excepting such debts as are by law excepted from the operatidn
of a discharge in bankruptcy." And theforms prescribed
for proof 6f debts all declare that the indebtedness existed
"at and before the filing of the said petition." Forms 31
to 36, inclusive. The General Orders and Forms, etc., are
to be found in 172 U. S., Appendix; 89 Fed. Rep., Preface;
32 C. C. A., Preface; 3 Foster's Fed. Pract. (4th ed.) 2526,
2559, 25M2.
The view above expressed as to clause 4 of § 63a is the
same ,that has been generally adopted in the Federal
District Courts. In re Burka, 104 Fed. Rep. 326; In re
plication to the court, be liquidated in such manner as it shall direct,
and may thereafter be proved and uqlowed against, his estate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Swift, 112 Fed. Rep. 315, 321; In re Adams, 130 Fed. Rep.
381; Colman Co. v. Withoft,: 195 Fed. 250, 252; and see
In re Roth & Appel, 181 Fed. Rep. 667, 673.
And so, upon the whole matter, we conclude that under
the present act an express promise to pay a provable debt
is good although made after the filing of the petition and
before discharge.
3. What has been said disposes at the same time of the
contention that the promises set up in the two replications
under consideration were discharged by the confirmation
of the composition. As these obligations were entered
into after the adjudication of bankruptcy, they were
of course not provable under § 63; and only, provable
debts are discharged.
With respect to the money loaned to the bankrupt for
use in paying the consideration of the composition, it is
perhaps worth while to remark that § 12 of the act, in
prescribing the time and mode of offering terms of composition, plainly contemplates that a composition in money
may be offered, and expressly prescribes that an application for the confirmation of a composition may be made
after, but not before, "the consideration to be paid by
the bankrupt to his creditors, and the money necessary
to pay all debts which have priority and the cost of the
proceedings; have been deposited in such place as shall be
designated by and subject to the order of the judge."
And the same section provides that "upon the confirmation of a composition the consideration shall be distributed
as the judge shall direct, and the case dismissed."
The act, of course, contemplates that the bankrupt may
acquire the money required for the purposes of the composition by the use of his credit
Judgment affirmed.

