OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

ROSALY, WIDOW OF RABAINNE, v. GRAHAM Y
FRAZER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PORTO RICO.

No. 64. Submitted December 5. 1912.-Decided February 24, 1913.
The jurisdiction of this court on appeals from the Supreme Court of
Porto Rico is confined to determining whether the facts found by
that court support the judgment, and whether there was material
and prejudicial error in the admission or rejection of evidence manifested by exceptions duly certified.
In the absence of findings on a special verdict there is nothing for this
court to review except rulings on evidence, and in absence of error
in those rulings the judgment must be affirmed.
When the judgment record itself discloses that the opinion of one of
the judges deciding the case was made part of the judgment, this
court may accept the statement of fact therein contained in lieu of
more formal findings.
A finding by the appellate court that the fundamental fact of plaintiff's
interest in the property sued for has not been proven is equivalent
to a negative finding upon a fact essential to maintain the suit and
supports a judgment of dismissal by the trial court.
16 Porto Rico 156, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court of
appeals from the Supreme Court of Porto Rico and whether
the facts found support the judgment in a suit to determine title to real estate.in Porto Rico, are stated in the
..

opinion.

Mr. Jacinto Texidor for appellant.
Mr. Manuel Rodriguez Serra and Mr. Charles Hartzell

for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought in the District Court for the

Judicial District of Ponce by the appejlant against the.
resoondent, .fof the purpose of establishing her owneialhip
of an undivided interest in certain real property in Ponce

ROSALY v. GRAHAM.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of which the defendant was in possession, and for setting
aside the registration of possession and of ownership of the
same property in the name of the defendant, alleged to
have been fraudulently procured by him and to stand as a
bar preventing the registration of the plaintiff's alleged
undivided interest.
The action was fully tried before the District Court
without a jury upon the issues raised by the plaintiff's
amended complaint and the defendant's answer thereto,
and the following decision was rendered:
"PONCE, P. R,, April 26th, 1909.
"The question involved in this suit is to determine the
rights of Dofia Marcelina Rosaly in a property which she,
as a member of a mercantile partnership, gave in lease to
the defendant in the year 1880. The other members of
said partnership were relatives of the plaintiff herein. It
seems that in the year 1886 and following years, the defendant bought the respective interests of the several
partners, and it seems, also, that he did not buy the interest belonging to Dofia Marcelina, for the reason that
she had lost her rights to an interest in the propert belonging to said mercantile partnership. More properly
speaking, the defendant acquired all the interests belonging to all such persons as Ihe believed to have an interest
in the property referred to. Twenty-three years have
elapsed since the year 1886. The plaintiff lacks absolutely
any means to show what was her interest in the properties
of the partnership, and whether or not she had any interest
whatever in the year 1886. There is absolute lack of
evidence on the part of the plaintiff. This court does not
look at old claims with favor, specially when the plaintiff's
delay in bringing the action is not explained. Counsel for
both parties have entered into a lengthy argument upon
the construction of the Mortgage Law and other points.
But the court does not make any decision with regard to

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

.

227 U. S.

such questions at the present time. The most important
matter is the absolute want of evidence on which to base
a judgment in favor of the plaintiff. Therefore the action
is dismissed with costs against the plaintiff.
"MARTIN E. GILL,
"District Judge."
Judgment having been rendered accordingly, the
plaintiff appealed to the Supreme Court of Porto Rico.
Thereafter her attorneys filed in the District Court what
purports to be a full history of the proceedings at the trial.
It is entitled "Statement of Facts and Bill of Exceptions,"
and is certified by Hon. Charles E. Foote (who succeeded
Judge Gill as judge of the District Court), to contain a
"true and accurate statement of all the evidence introduced, exceptions taken and proceedings had during the
trial of this cause in the District Court of Ponce."
The Supreme Court of Porto Rico affirmed the judgment, Mr. Justice del Toro delivering the opinion (16
Porto Rico, 156), in which, after statiiig the issues raised
by the pleadings, he reviews the evidence and states the
conclusions of the court thereon as follows:
"The first question to be considered and decided is the
following: Did the plaintiff prove her title? She alleged,
as shown by the transcript made above, that she was, and
has always been, the owner, in full ownership, of an undivided interest, equivalent to the sum of $6,253.67, in the
total value of $27,443.67, which value was given to the
estate left at the death of Don Mateo and Don Luis
Rabainne in the partition proceedings of the said estate.
,The defendant denied said allegation. And the evidence
shows the following:
"It is true that from the testamentary proceedings of
Don Mateo and Don Luis Rabainne, executed before a
Notary Public and recorded in a Notarial protocol on the
28th of January, 1870, it appears that the said Messrs.

ROSALY v. GRAHAM.
227 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Rabainne died, respectively, on the 23rd of April, 1868,
and on the 8th of April, 1869; that the former left as heirs
his widow, Dofia Bernardina Franco, and his children
Luis, represented by his daughter Luisa Rabainne y
Rosaly; Ramona, represented by her children Jacobo,
Ofelia and Herminia Lopez y Rabainne; Josefa; and
Hortensia; and the latter, his said daughter Luisa, and
his widow, the plaintiff Marcelina Rosaly; that the properties left at their deaths were constituted by whatever
interest might belong to them in the partnership M.
Rabainne 6 Hijos; that such partnership was liquidated
by a deed executed on the 19th of January, 1870, by the
heirs and representative4 of both persons deceased; that
among the properties belonging to said partnership there
were the lot and building involved in this suit, which
were valued at $9,108.00, and steam-engines, etc., valued
at $18,335.67, both items aggregating $27,443.67, of
which $18,000 belonged to the estate of Don Mateo, and
$9,443.67 to that of Don Luis; and that the inheritance
left by .Don Luis was adjudicated as follows: to his widow
Dofia Marcelina Rosaly, the plaintiff, $6,253.67, in partial payment of the properties brought by her into her
marriage, which amounted to $19,030.39, and of one half
of the conjugal property belonging to her; and to his
daughter Luisa $3,190.00.
"But the evidence shows that, although the above is
true, the plaintiff contributed all the capital adjudicated
to her, to the partnership which under the firm M. Rabainne 6 Hijos was constituted by her together with Dofia
Bernardina Franco, widow of Rabainne, and Don Jobo
Lopez, by a public deed executed on the 8th of February,
1870. Such partnership which was to be engaged in the
same line of business followed by the extinguished partnership of M. Rabainne 6 Hijos, constituted by Don,, Mateo
and Don Luis, was extended by public deeds executed on
the 22nd of April, 1873, :nd the 7th of ,July, 1875' and no

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

evidence has been introduced tending to show that the
same has been duly and finally liquidated, there being
several circumstances showing that said partnership continued, although, perhaps in an irregular manner, for
several years longer.
"The plaintiff claims as owner of a certain cb-ownership,
and the evidence shows that she contributed said coownership to a mercantile partnership, to the fate of
which said co-ownership was subject from that time.
And the evidence shows further that a balance of said
partnership having been made on the 30th of November,
1875, it appeared that the contribution of the 'plaintiff
was reduced to $2,478.52, such as is shown by the deed
containing the partition proceedings of the properties
left at the death of Dofia Bernardina Franco, widow of
Rabainne, executed before a Notary Public, on the 6th
of May, 1876, by the plaintiff herself and other persons,
and that there are circumstances showing that years
afterwards the plaintiff was debtor of the partnership, as
shown apparently by the books of the latter.
"Such being the case, it follows that the first fact,
which is the fundamental fact of the complaint filed in
this case, has not been proven, and, consequently, that
the judgment rendered by the District Court, is just and
proper."
The numerous exceptions to the rulings of the trial court
upon matters of evidence were then reviewed, with the result of determining that there was no legal error therein.
The resulting judgment was expressed as follows:
"SAN JUAN, PORTO Rico, March 11th, 1910.

"This Court has carefully examined the transcript of
record filed -in this case and considered the briefs and
arguments of counsel for both sides, and for the reasons
given in' the Opinion filed herewith, the Court decides to
dismiss the appeal and to affirm the judgment appealed

IROSALY v. GRAHAM.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

from, rendered by the District Court of Pon~e on the 26th
of April, 1909."
An appeal having been taken to this court, the following
order was made:
PORTO Rico, 19th of May, 1910.
"As the Statement of Facts and Bill of Exceptions
which was approved by the Hon. Charles E. Foote, District Judge for the Judicial District of Ponce, on the 15th
of July, 1909, and which forms a part of the record on the
appeal taken in the above entitled case, was the Statement of Facts and Bill of Exceptions considered and
acted upon by this Court in the discussion and decision of
said appeal, it is hereby ordered that the same be used as
Statement of Facts and Bill of Exceptions, in this case,
in the appeal taken by the plaintiff herein to the Supreme
Court of the United States from the Judgment rendered
by the Supreme Court of Porto Rico.
JOSE C. HERNANDEZ,
"Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico."
"SAN JUAN,

The cause has been argued here very much at large,
and as if it were the duty of this court to review the
evidence and reach its own conclusions of fact therefrom.
This is a misapprehension of the proper function of this
court in the premises. At the time the appeal was taken
and the record made up ยง 35 of the act of 'April 12, 1900,
chap. 191, known as the Foraker Act, was in force (31
Stat. 77, 85, since superseded by ยง 244 of the Judicial
Code of March 3, 1911, 36 Stat. 1087, 1157, c. 231); by
Which it was enacted "That writs of error and appeals
from the final decisions of the Supreme Court of Porto
Rico and the District Court of the United States shall be
allowed and may be taken to the Supreme Court of the
United State in the same manner and under the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

regulations and in the same cases as from the supreme
courts of the Territories of the United States," etc.
Writs of error and appeals from the Supreme Courts of
the Territories were regulated by act of April 7, 1874,
chap. 80, ยง 2; 18 Stat. 27, 28; by which it was provided"That on appeal, instead of -the evidence at large, a
statement of the facts of the case in the nature of a special
verdict, and also the rulings of the court on the admission
or rejection of evidence when excepted to, shall be made
and certified by the court below, and transmitted to the
Supreme Court together with the transcript of the proceedings and judgment or decree."
Our jurisdiction, therefore, is confined to determining
whether the facts found by the Supreme Court of Porto
Rico support its judgment, and whether there was
material and prejudicial error in the admission or rejection
of evidence, manifested by exceptions duly certified.
Gonzales v. Buist, 224 U. S. 126, 130; Nielsen v. Steinfeld,
224 U. S. 534, 538; Eagle Mining Co. v. Hamilton, 218
U. S. 513, 515; Stringfellow v. Cain, 99 U. S. 610, 613; 'N
Neslin v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 104 U. S. 428, 429; Haws v.
Victoria Copper Mining Co., 160 U. S. 303, 313; Harrison
v. Perea, 168 U. S. 311, 323; Young v. Amy, 171 U. S. 179,
183.
An examination of the"Statement of Facts and Bill of
Exceptions" shows that it contains nothing that could by
any stretch of construction be deemed a finding of facts
in the nature'of a special verdict. In the absence of- such
findings there is nothing for us to review except the rulings
upon evidence, and, in the absence of error in those rulings
the judgment must be affirmed. Thompson v. Ferry, 180
U. S. 484; Gonzales v. Buist, supra; Eagle Mining Co. v.
Hamilton, supra.
But since the judgment record itself discloses that the
opinion delivered by Mr. Justice del Toro was made a
part of the judgment, we may, for present purposes,

ROSALY v. GRAHAM.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

accept the statement of facts contained in that opinion in
lieu of more formal findings.
The essential facts as recited in the opinion may be
summarized as follows. That prior to the year 1868,
Don Mateo Rabainne and his son Don Luis Rabainne, as
partners in the name of M. Rabainne 6 Hijos, were the
owners of the property in question; that Don Mateo died
April 23, 1868, and Don Luis died April 8, 1869; that the
partnership was liquidated by deed executed January 29,
1870, by the heirs and representatives of the deceased
partners; that in the liquidation a certain part of the
interest of Don Luis was found to belong to his widow, the
present plaintiff and appellant; that she, together with
the widow of Don Mateo and with Don Jobo Lopez, sonin-law of the latter, entered into a new partnership to
continue the former business under the firm name of
M. Rabainne 6 Hijos, to which partnership the plaintiff
contributed all her interest in the property in question;
that the plaintiff's interest in the firm was subsequently reduced by withdrawals of capital, and finally extinguished,
so that she became a debtor of the partnership. Therefore the Supreme Court held that the fundamental fact
of the plaintiff's interest in the property at the time of
her action against the defendant had not been proven.
This is equivalent to a negative finding upon a fact essential to the maintenance of her suit, and it of course supports the judgment affirming the judgment of the District
Court that dismissed the action.
There remains only the question whether prejudicial
error was committed by the trial court respecting the admission or exclusion of evidence. There are numerous
exceptions, with assignments of error based thereon.
They have been examined, without finding substantial
error in the rulings complained of. They do not merit
detailed discussion here.
Judgment,affirmed.

