VAN IDERSTINE v. NAT. DISCOUNT CO.
227 U.S.

575

Syllabus.

prejudice to the right of either when such questions arise,
the refusal to enjoin the prosecution for running a steam

locomotive and the order entering a decree dismissing the'
bill must be

Affirmd.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY concur
in the result.

VAN IDERSTINE, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY
OF FELLERMAN, v. NATIONAL DISCOUNT

COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 136. Argued January 22, 23, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.
A general verdict in an equity case to declare a payment to be a fraudulent preference in favor of the trustee, which was only advisory, and
which was practically demanded by the instructions of the court,
cannot be treated as a finding of intent by the bankrupt to defraud,
of which intent defendant had notice.
There is a difference between intent to defraud and intent to preferthe former is malum per se and the latter malum prohibitum and
only to the extent forbidden.
A bonafWe transfer of securities to secure a loan made to one who immediately thereafter becomes a bankrupt is not an illegal preference
where the person making the loan has no knowledge that, the borrower intends to defraud any of his creditors, even though he may
know that the whole or part of the money loaned is to be used to
pay some of his debts.
Where error is assigned in the Circuit Court of Appeals, not only on
refusal of the trial court to set aside the verdict against, but also for
failure to enter a verdict in favor of, defendant, the Circuit Court
of Appeals, if it finds facts justifying such action, may reverse and
order the complaint dismissed.
174 Fed. Rep. 518, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant.

227 U. S.

THE facts, which involve the determination of whether
a payment by a bankrupt -constituted an illegal preference,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Abram I. Elkus, with whom Mr. GarrardGlenn wag
on the brief, for appellant:
At the time of the transfers the bankrupts were insolvent, and knew it.
The bankrupts' dealings with the appellee were part of
a scheme by the bankrupts to convert their slow assets
into cash, with part of the amount received to -preferred
favored creditors, and to appropriate the balance to their
own use, to the exclusion of their remaining creditors.
Evidence concerning contemporaneous transactions is
clearly admissible to show fraudulent intent of a bankrupt.
Benedick v. Gill, 2 McCrary, C. C. Rep. 486; Fraser v.
Levy, 6 H. & N. 15; Delaware v. Ensign, 21 Barb. 85.
The destruction, of a bankrupt's books and records is
likewise a'strofig badge of fraud. Benedick'v. Gill, supra.
The appellee was not a transferee in good faith. To
avoid a sale actual agreement or conspiracy to defraud
creditors does not have to be shown. It is sufficient if
facts and circumstances are such as fairly to induce the
belief of fraudulent purpose; or, having good reason to
suspect such fraudulent purpose, no inquiry is made.
Singer v. Jacobs,. 11 Fed. Rep. 559; In re Pease, 129 Fed.
Rep. 446; Clements v. Moore, 6 Wall. 299; Dokken v.
Page, 147 Fed. Rep. 438; Kempner v. Churchill, 8 Wall.
362; Hyde v. Sontag, 1 Sawy. 249; Fed. Cas. No. 6974;
Wrightv. Sampter, 152 Fed. Rep. 196; Walbrun v. Babbitt, 16 Wall. 577, 582; Bartles v. Gibson, 17 Fed. Rep.
293, 297; Metcalf v. Moses, 161 N. Y. 587.
A conveyance may be fraudulent as against creditors
even though it is made for an actual consideration or loan.
Statute 13 Elizabeth, c. 5; Williams on Bankruptcy, 8th
London ed., p. 19; 2 Rich. II, c. 3; 50 Edw. III, c. 6; 3

VAN IDERSTINE v. NAT. DISCOUNT CO.
227 U. S.

577

Argument for Appellant.

Henry VII, c. 4; Cadoganv. Kennett, 2 Cowp. 432; Graham
v. Furber, 14 C. B. 410; Coder v. Arts, 213 U. S. 223.
In determining whether the conveyance is fraudulent
the chief factor is the intended disposition of the consideration. Coder v. Arts, supra.
As part of the money the bankrupts received from the
appellee they applied to their own uses to the exclusion of
their creditors, the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
is clearly erroneous to that extent.
Though the bankrupts used $3,000 of the funds received
from the appellee to prefer a favored creditor, the transaction is none the less fraudulent. Coder v. Arts, supra;
Sergeant v. Blake, 160 Fed. Rep. 57, 61; Ex parte Stubbins,
17 Ch. Div. 58. In re Maher, 144 Fed. Rep. 503; In re
Bloch, 142 Fed. Rep. 674; Githens v. Schiffler, 112 Fed.
Rep. 505, distinguished. See also New's Trustee v. Hunting, 1 Q. B. 607; 2 Q. B. 19; In re Lake, 1 K. B. 710; In re
Blackpool Motor Car Co., Ltd., 1 Ch. 77; Ex parte Taylor,
18 Q. B. D. 295; Ex parte Luck, 49 L. T. 810; McNaboe
v. Columbian Co., 153 Fed. Rep. 967; Clarke v. Rogers, 183
Fed. Rep. 518; Hunt on Fraudulent Conveyances, 2d
London ed., 1897, p. 165; Roberts v. Johnson, 151 Fed.
Rep. 567; In re Pease, 129 Fed. Rep. 446; In re Berrman,
112 Fed. Rep. 663; Ex parte Mendell, 1 Low. 506; Crafts
v. Belden, 99 Massachusetts, 535; In re McLam, 97 Fed.
Rep. 922; Natl. Bank of Newport v. Natl. Herkimer Co.
Bank, 225 U. S. 178.
The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in refusing to grant
a new trial, instead of dismissing the bill.
The appellate court had the power to grant a new trial.
Edwin v. Thomas, 2 Vern. 75; Stace v. Mabot, 2 Vesey Sr.
553; Lord Faulconberg v. Pierce, Amb. 210; Cleeve v.
Gascoigne, Amb. 323: East India Co. v. Bazett, 1 Jac. 91;
Watt v. Starke, 101 U. S. 247.

A new trial should have been granted. Allen v. Blunt,
3 Story, 742; Clyde v. Richmond & Danville R. R., 72 Fed.
VOL. ccxxvii-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellee.

227 U. S.

Rep. 121; Cohen v. United States, 157 Fed. Rep. 651, 655;
207 U. S.. 596; McLaughlin v. Potomac Bank, 7 How. 220;
Eltho v.Lear 7 Pet. 130; Gas Co. v. Peoria, 200 U. S. 48,
54; Barber v. Coit, 118 Fed. Rep. 272; Ill. Cent. R. R. v.
Illinois, 146 U. S. 387; Stand. Comp. Scale Co. v. Computing Scale Co., 145 Fed. Rep. 627; Chi. R. R. v. Tompkins,
176 U. S. 167.
Mr. Chester H. 'Fuller,with whom Mr. William J. Wallace was on the brief, for appellee:
The court'can in an equ'ity case, at its discretion, submit the facts to the consideration of the jury; but when
this is done the verdict is merely advisory, and it is the
duty of the court to give an independent judgment upon
its own consideration of the testimony. Oilwell Supply
Co. v. Hall, 128 Fed. Rep., 875; Johnson v. Harmon, 94
U. S. 371; Watt v. Stark, 101 U. S. 247; Basey v. Gallagher,
20 Wall. 670.
There was no cause of action proved and the direction
by the Circiit Court of Appeals to dismiss the bill of complaint was correct.
Neither under the Bankruptcy Act nor the laws of the
State of New York, in any view that might be taken of
the evidence, was any cause of action established against
this defendant.
Paymnent by a failing debtor of a legitimate debt, even
thougA he thereby intends to create a preference, is not
a fraud under the Bankruptcy Act and does not come
within the provisions of ยง 67e or ยง 70e of the Bankruptcy
Act. Section 67e applies only to transfers which are
fraudulent. at common law and does not apply to preferential 'transfers. In re Bloch, 142 Fed. Rep. 674, 676,
677; Githens v. Schiffler, 112 Fed. Rep. 505; Coder v. Arts,
152 Fed. Rep. 943; In re Maher, 144 Fed. Rep. 503, 509;
Tompkins v. Hunter, 149 N. Y. 117; Delaney v. Valentine,
154 N. Y.'692, 700; Shotwell v.Dixon, 163 N. Y. 43; Dodge

VAN IDERSTINE v. NAT. DISCOUNT CO.
227 U. S.

579

Opinion of the Court.

v. McKechnie, 156' N. Y. 514, 520; Ex parte Stubbins, Re
Wilkinson, 17 Ch. Div. 58, 68.
There was no evidence of want of good faith on the part
of defendant or to justify a finding that the defendant
knew or had reason to believe at the time it made loans to
the bankrupt that he was insolvent.
It makes no difference whether or not a man has present
obligations which he cannot meet, so long as the actual
value of his property is in excess of his liabilities. In re
Hines, 144 Fed. Rep. 142; In re Andrews, Hardy v. Gray,
144 Fed. Rep. 922.
In reply to the statements in appellant's brief, coniplainant's evidence showed that all of this money was
used to pay creditors.
As to what appellant calls the additional badges of fraud,
they did not exist in fact and the nature and methods of
defendant's business afford not the slightest evidence of
any bad faith.
Whether or not the use of the borrowed money to pay
preferred debts was a fraudulent gct so as to render the
assignment of the accounts subject to attack under ยง 67e of
the Bankruptcy Act, the view taken by the Circuit Court
of Appeals was correct and the authorities cited by the
appellant do not support his claim that there was anIy
error in that position. In re Beerman, 112 Fed. Rep. 663;
Roberts v. Johnson, 151 Fed. Rep. 567; In re Pease, 129
Fed. Rep. 448, distinguished.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.
Van Iderstine, Trustee of Fellerman & Son, brought sult
in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York to set aside a transfer of accounts made
to the National Discount Company as security for a loan,
alleging that it was a fraudulent conveyance, and that
the lending company was charged with notice of Feller-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

man's intent to defraud. It is unnecessary to state the
facts further than to say that Fellerman and his firm were
insolvent, though rated at $50,000 to $75,000 in the Commercial Reports. Having been recommended by another
merchant, he applied to the Discount Company to learn
the terms on which he could borrow with book accounts
as security. He was informed as to the method of doing
business and the terms on which it would lend money,
which; besides interest, included its customary charge of
5% of the face of the accounts for services in connection
with correspondence, collections and the like. He returned in a few days with a number of accounts and
applied for a loan of $3,000, stating that he was pressed
for funds and needed the money for the purpose of paying
a note which matured that day. The accounts were transferred, the money was advanced and Fellerman used it to
take up a note, in bank, which had been endorsed by his
son-in-law. Two or three days afterwards another loan
of $1,000 on similar security was made, and the parties
are at issue as to whether the money was used for paying
a debt or went into the general funds of the firm and was
checked out for other purposes. The day following the
last loan a petition in bankruptcy was filed, 4nd after adjudication a Trustee was elected. He then brought this
suit to have the transfer set aside and to compel the
Discount Company to account for the collections made
by it.
The District Judge called in a jury to pass upon the
disputed fact. After the introduction of the evidence,
which was very conflicting, the court charged the law relating to fraudulent conveyances and the necessity of showing that there had been an intent on the part of Fellerman
to defraud, and that the Discount Company had knowledge of such purpose. He, however, refused to charge
that it was not fraudulent for the company to advance
money to be used by Fellerman in paying legitimate debts,

VAN IDERSTINE v. NAT. DISCOUNT CO.
227 U.S.

581

Opinion of the Court.

and instead instructed them that a preference was as
much within the terms of the act as though Fellerman
had concealed the money from his creditors. The jury
made no special finding, but rendered a general verdict
in favor of the Trustee., It was approved by the District
Judge, who refused to grant a new trial and entered a
judgment against the company.
The Circuit Court of Appeals (174 Fed. Rep. 518)
made a statement of fact in which it found that it was
doubtful if Fellerman intended to defraud; but if he did
the Discount Company did not know thereof and was
not
charged with knowledge by any of the circumstances
surrounding the transaction, or by the fact that Fellerman
borrowed on hard terms upon the security of book accounts. It therefore reversed the judgment of the District Court and directed that the complaint be dismissed.
The Trustee then brought the case here by appeal.
-The general verdict of the jury cannot be treated as a
finding that there was an intent to defraud of which the
Discount Company had knowledge. For whatever view
they may have taken on that issue, the verdict in favor
of the Trustees was practically demanded by the instructions given. For the District Court charged in effect
that the transfer was to be treated as a fraudulent conveyance if the Discount Company made the loan with the
knowledge that the money was to be used in paying an
existing debt. The finding can therefore be treated as the
jury's observance of the instructions, since it was admitted that Fellerman in applying for the loan stated that
he needed the money for the purpose of paying a debt due
that day in bank. In the absence of any other special
finding in the case, and bearing in mind that the verdict
of the jury was only advisory, the case being one in equity,
we agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals, which held
that the Discount Company had no knowledge of any
intent on the part of Fellerman to defraud. If so its de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

cree directing. the complaint to be dismissed must be
affirmed, unless, as matter of law, the transfer is to be
treated as a fraudulent conveyance in view of the fact
that the company knew that the money was to be used in
paying an existing debt.
Conveyances may be fraudulent because the debtor
intends to put the property and its proceeds beyond the
reach of his creditors; or because he intends to hinder and
delay them as a class; or by perferring one who is favored
above the others. There is no necessary connection between the intent to defraud and that to prefer, but inasmuch as one of the common incidents of a fraudulent conveyance is the purpose on the part of the grantor to apply
the proceeds in such manner as to prefer his family or
business connections, the existence of such intent to prefer
is an important matter to be considered -in determining
whether therewas also one to defraud. But two purposes
are not of the same quality, either in conscience or in law,
and one may exist without the other. The statute recognizes the difference between the intent to defraud and the
intent to prefer, and also the difference between a fraudulent and a preferential conveyance. One is inherently
and always vicious; the other innocent and valid, except
when made in violation of the express provisions of a
statute. One is malun per se and the other inalum prohibitum,-and then only to the extent that it is forbidden.
A fraudulent conveyance is void regardless of its date; a
preference is valid unless made within the prohibited
period. It is therefore not in itself unlawful to prefer nor
fraudulent for one though insolvent to borrow in order to
use the money in making a preference. So that even if the
Discount Company knew that Fellerman borrowed the
money in order to pay off an honest debt, the transfer
would not have been subject to attack by the Trustee, except for the fact that a petition in bankruptcy was filed
within: four months thereafter. But the institution of

VAN IDERSTINE v. NAT. DISCOUNT CO.
227 U. S.

583

Opinion of the Court.

such proceedings did not relate back and con'ert a lawful
transfer into a fraudulent conveyance.
Cases, under the present statute, like In re Beerman, 112
Fed. Rep. 663, relied on by the trustee, relate to transactions in which the mortgagee was practically the representative of the preferred creditor and where, consequently,
the conveyence was as much subject to attack as though
it had been made directly to him. But here the Discount
Company was not a creditor of Fellerman & Son and had
no relation with the persons to whom the money was paid.
National Bank of Newport v. National Bank of Herkimer,
225 U. S. 178. The transfer, therefore, was not a preference to the Discount Company and could not be set aside
without proof that it knew that Fellerman not only intended to pay some of his creditors but to defraud others.
The difference between-the two classes of cases is authoritatively recognized by Coder v. Arts, 213 U. S. 223, where
it was said that "an attempt to prefer is not to be confounded with an intent to defraud, nor'a preferential
transfer with a fraudulent one."
The Circuit Court of Appeals applied this principle in
the present case. Having found that the Discount Company had no knowledge of any intent to defraud, and the
evidence supporting that finding, the conveyance cannot
be set aside whether the money was used to pay an existing debt or, as claimed, a part was deposited with the
general funds of -the firm.
It is contended that even if the finding of the Circuit
Court of Appeals was correct it should not have ordered
the complaint to be dismissed, since the company itself
only asked for a new trial. But error was assigned not
only on the refusal to set aside the verdict but on the
failure to enter a decree in favor of the Discount Company. The facts found by the Circuit Court of Appeals
warranted a'dismissal of the complaint, and the decree is
Affirmed.,

