STARR v. LONG JIM.
227 U. S.

Syllabus.

forfeited its right of property in the mail car upon which
the deceased rode. His right to safe carriage was not derived, according to the lAw of Utah, from the contract
made between him and the carrier, and therefbre was not
deduced from the supposed violation of the Hepburn Act.
It arose from the fact that he was a human being, of whose
safety the plaintiff in error had undertaken the charge.
With its consent he had placed his life in its keeping, and
the local law thereupon imposed a duty upon the carrier,
irrespective of the contract of carriage. The Hepburn
Act does not deprive one who accepts gratuitous carriage,
under such circumstances, of the benefit and protection
of the law of the State in this regard.
It results that the judgment under review must be
affirmed, irrespective of the question whether the Hepburn Act forbids the giving of free interstate transportation to the employ~s of the Railway Mail Service when
not on duty.
Judgment affirmed.

STARR v. LONG JIM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 151.

Argued January 28, 1913.-Decided' February 24, 1913.

An agreement as to division and allotment of lands between the Secretary of the Interior and chiefs representing Indians which is informal in terms and is afterwards ratified by Congress should be
construed so as to confer upon'the Indians the full measure of benefit
intended.
The best interests of the Indians do not always require that they should
be allotted lands in fee rather than by having them held in trust by
the Government for them.

OC)"i'()1RE!

TEIEM, 1912.

()phion of Ihl ('nrurt.

227 U. S.

The agiv(eient with (liis4 ME)s anI other's of July 7, 1883, as to distribution of lands in the ("olumbia and Colville reservations and the
act of July 4, ISMl. 23 Stal. 79. validating it. and the subsequent acts
relating thereto, were propexrly construed bY the Secretary of the
Interior to the effect tlatl the (overnment held the land in trust for
the Indian allottees for a period of ten years and without power of
alienation neanwhile except by consent of the Secretary.
The general rule, that a conveyance with warranty estops the grator
when he afterwards becomes the owner .to deny the grantee's title.,
does not apply to a conveyance made by one non si ijurisor that is
contrary to public policy or statutory construction.
An allottee Indian, who conveys by warranty deed before patent and
during the period of suspension of alienation without the consent of
the Secretary, acts contrary to the policy of the law and is not.
estopped to deny the Validity of the deed after patent, and the
grantee acquires no rights.
59 Washington, 190, affirmed.

TLPE facts, which involve the titl of Indians to lands
within the Columbia Indian Reservation and the construetion of an agreement allotting lands between Chief Moses
and others, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. R. W. Starr pr6 se and Mr. Frank Reeves for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. A. G. Avery, with whom Mr. F. T. Post was on the
brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error brought this action against the
defendants in error in the Superior Court of the State of
Washington in and for the County of Chelan to establish
and quiet his title to certain lands in that county. The
answer showed that the plaintiff claimed his title under a
deed made by the defendants, and attacked the validity of
this instrument onthe ground of fraud in its procurement,
and on the further ground that at the time of its execution

STARR v. LONG JIM.
227 U.S.

Opinion of Iih Court.

the title to the lands therein described was in the United
States, and the defendants were without power to convey
them. The trial court made findings of fact negativing
the charges of fraud, and concluded as matter of law that
the conveyance made by the defendants to plaintiff was
valid, and that the plaintiff was entitled to recover. From
the resulting judgment the defendants appealed to the
Supreme Court of the State, which rdversed the judgment
and remanded the cause, with directions to enter a judgment in favor of the defendants upon terms that they

should repay the consideration paid by the plaintiff to
them, with certain additional charges. 52 Washington,
138. After the cause was remanded, a further hearing was
had and a second and fiiial j udgment entered in accordance
with the mandate. From this judgment the plaintiff appealed, and the Supreme Court of the State affirmed the
judgment, 59 Washington, 190, and the case come- here by
writ of error.
The facts are as follows :-The defendants are husband
and wife and full blooded Indians and the lands in question
are a part of what was tihe Colum)ia Indian Reservation.
On July 7, 1883, in the City of Washington; the Secretary
of the Interior and the Commissioner of Indian Affairs on
the part of the United States, and Chief Moses and other
Indians of the Columbia and Colville reservations in thc
then Territory of Washington, entered into a certain agree_
ment, subject. to the approval of Congress, the material
parts of which are as follows:
"In the conference with Chiefs Moses and Sar-sarp-kin,
of the Columbia reservation, and Tonasket and Lot, of
the Colville reservation, had this day, the following was
substantially what. was asked for by the Indians:
"Tonasket asked for a saw. and grist mill, a boarding
school to be established at Bonaparte creek to accommodate one hundred (100) pupils, and physician to reside
with them, and $100 (one hundred) to himself each year.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

"Sar-sarp-kin asked to be allowed to remain on the
Columbia reservation with his people, where they now live,
and to be protected in their rights as settlers, and, in
addition to the ground they now have under cultivation
within the limit of the fifteen-mile strip cut off from the
northern portion of the Columbia reservation, to be
allowed to select enough more unoccupied land in severalty to make a total to Sar-sarp-kin of four square miles,
being 2,560 acres of land, and each head of a family or
male adult one square mile, or to remove onto the Colville
reservation, if they so desire; and in case they so remove,
and relinquish all their claims to the Columbia reservation, he is to receive one hundred (100) head of cows for
himself and people, and such farming implements as may
be necessary.
"All of which the Secretary agrees they should have,
and that he will ask Congress to make an appropriation
to enable him to perform.
"The Secretary also agrees to ask Congress to make an
appropriation to enable him to purchase for Chief Moses
a sufficient number of cows to furnish each one of his band
with two cows; also to give Moses one thousand dollars
($1,000) for the purpose of erecting a dwelling house for
himself; also to construct a saw mill and grist mill as soon
as the same shall be required for use; also that each head
of a family or each male adult person shall be furnished
with one wagon, one double set of harness, one grain
cradle, one plow, one harrow, one scythe, one hoe, and
such other agricultural implements as may be necessary.
"And, on condition that Chief Moses and his people
keep this agreement faithfully, he is to be paid in cash,
in addition to all of the above, one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per annum during his life.
"All this on condition that Chief Moses shall remove to
the Colville reservation and relinquish all claims upon the
government for any land situate elsewhere.

STARR v. LONG JIM.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"Further, that the government will secure to Chief
Moses and his people, as well as to all other Indians who
may go onto the Colville reservation and engage in farming, equal rights and protection alike with all other Indians
now on the Colville reservation, and will afford him any
assistance necessary to enable him to carry out the terms
of this agreement on the part of himself and his people:
that until he and his people are located permanently on the
Colville reservation his status shall remain as now, and the
police-over his people shall be vested in the military, and
all money or articles to be furnished him and his people
shall be sent to some point in the locality of his people,
there to be distributed as provided. All other Indians
now living on the Columbia reservation shall be entitled
to 640 acres, or one square mile, of land to each head of
family or male adult, in the possession and ownership of
which they shall be guaranteed and protected; or, should
they move onto the Colville reservation within two years,
they will be provided with such farming implements as
may be required, provided they surrender all rights to the
Columbia reservation.
"All the foregoing is upon the condition that Congress
will make an 'appropriation of funds necessary to accomplish the foregoing and confirm this agreement, and also,
with the understanding that Chief Moses, or any of the
Indians heretofore mentioned, shall not be required to remove to the Colville reservation until Congress does make
such appropriation,'" etc.
This agreement was ratified and confirmed by act of
Congress of July 4, 1884, c. 180, 23 Stat. 76, 79, which
reads as follows:
"For the purpose of carrying into effect the agreement
entered into at, the city of Washington on the seventh day
of -July,eighteen hundred and eighty-three, between Ithe
Secretarv of the Interior and the'Cominmissioner of Indian
Afflairs and Chief Moses and-other Indians of the Columbia

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

and Colville reservations, in Washington. Territory, which
agreement is hereby accepted, ratified, and confirmed,
including all expenses incident thereto, eighty-five thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be required therefor, to be immediately available: Provided, that Sarsopkin
and the Indians now residing on said Columbia reservation shall elect within one year from the passage of this act
whether they will remain upon said reservation on the
terms therein stipulated or remove to the Colville reservation: And provided furher, That in case said Indians so
elect to remain on said Columbia reservation the Secretary
of' the Interior shall cause the quantity of land therein
stipulated to be allowed them to be selected in as compact
form as possible, the same when so selected to be held for
the exclusive use and occupation of said Indians, and the
remainder of said reservation to be thereupon restored to
the public domain, and shall be disposed of to actual
settlers under the homestead laws only, except such portion thereof as may properly be subject to sale under the
laws relating to the entry of timber lands and of mineral
lands, the entry of which shall be governed by the laws
now in force concerning the entry of such lands."
In the above agreement of July 7, 1883 (commonly
caled the Moses Agreement), the following clause is
especially pertinent to the present controversy, viz.: "All
other Indians now living on the Columbia Reservation
shall be entitled to 640 acres, or one square mile, of land
to each head of family or male adult, in the possession and
ownership of which they shall be guaranteed and protected."
In the confirmatory act the following proviso is to be
noted: "That in case said Indians so elect to remain eu
said Columbia Reservation the Secretary of the Interior
shall cause the quantity of land therein stipulated to be
allowed them to be selected in as compact form as possible.
the same when so selected to be held for the exclusive use

STARR r. LONG JIM.
227 U. S.

Opinion of tho Cnurt.

and occupation of said Indians, and the remainder of said
reservation to be thereupon restored to the public domain, and shall be disposed of to actual settlers," etc.
By an executive order made by President Cleveland
under date May 1, 1886 (Executive Orders, -Indian Reserves, 1890, p. 75), the land in question was iestored to
the public domain, subject to the limitations as to disposition imposed by the act of July 4,1884; itbeing, however, at the same time ordered that certain tracts of land
surveyed for and allotted to Sar-sarp-kin and other
Indians in accordance with the provisions of that act,
and particularly described in the order, should be and the
same were thereby set apart for the exclusive use and
occupation of said Indians by name. Long ,Jim was nol
included.
But by a decision of the General Land Office rendered
,July 9, 1892, affirmed by the Secretary of the Interior
.January 6, 1893 (Long Jim v. Robinson, 16 L. D. 15), it
was held that Long Jim, although not a party to, the
Moses Agreement, was entitled to its benefits by the terms
of the act of July 4, 1884, and, because he and other mehihers of a band of which he was the Chief were in actual
occupancy of the land in question, having lived upon it
for many years, cultivated a part of it, raised stock
thereon, etc., it was also held, following Mission. Indiavs
v. Walsh, 13 L. D. 269, that the Executive Order of May 1,
1886, did not confer upon white men claiming under the
preemption and homestead laws any right to'settle on,
file upon, or enter lands that were in the occupation of the
Indians. It was also held that Long Jim was not deprived of his rights under the act of July 4, 1884 ,by reason
of not having elected within one year from il¢s passage
whether he would remain upon the Columbia Reservation
on the terms therein stipulated or remove to the Colville
Reservation; that limitation in the :Act being construed
to apply only to Sar-sarp-kin and the Indians who were-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 11. S.

directly represented by him in the making of the Moses
Agreement. The conclusion of the matter was that Long
Jim and certain other Indian applicants were held entitled to have allotments made to them in severalty, in
quantities, and manner provided in the agreement of
July 7, 1883, and the right of certain white claimants to
the same land was held to be subordinate and subject to
the prior and superior right of the Indians.
In accordance with this decision and in pursuance of
the Moses Agreement and the act of Congress ratifying
it, the Secretary of the Interior, in the year 1894, set apart
for the exclusive use and occupation of Long Jim a certain
allotment on the Columbia Reservation, included in
which are the lands involved in the present action.
On March 29, 1900, Long Jim and his wife, by warranty
deed, in consideration of the sum of two thousand dollars,
,.ssumed to convey the lands in question to the plaintiff.
Up to this time no patent had been issued by the Government.
In April, 1904, the Secretary of the Interior held (In re
Long Jim, 32 L. D. 568) that the act of July 4, 1894, had
made no provision for issuing a patent; that if the Moses
Agreement contemplated that patents should be issued,
the act of ratification limited it in this respect; and that
since there was no general authority of law for issuing
patents to Indian allottees, none could be issued to cover
Long Jim's allotment. Thereafter Congress, by act of
March 3, 1905, c. 1479; 33 Stat. 1048, 1064, 1065; authorized the issuance of such a patent, in the. following
terms:
"That the Secretary of the Interior be, and hereby is,
authorized and directed to issue a patent in fee to Long
Jim for the lands heretofore allotted to him by the Secretary of the Interior on April eleventh, eighteen hundred
and ninety-four, as modified and changed by Department order of April twentieth, eighteen hundred and

STARR u. LONG JIM.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ninety-four, under and by viitae of the agreement concluded July seventh, eighteen hundred and eighty-three,
by and between the Secretary of the Interior and the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs and Chief Moses and
other Indians of the Columbia and Colville reservations,
commonly known as the 'Moses agreement,' accepted,
ratified, and confirmed by the Act of Congress approved
July fourth, eighteen hundred and eighty-four (Twentythird Statutes, pages seventy-nine and eighty), and
under the decision of the General Land Office of July
ninth, eighteen hundred and ninety-two, affirmed by the
Department of the Interior January sixth, eighteen
hundred and ninety-three, to wit: the northeast quarter,
northeast quarter of the southeast quarter and lot one of
section eleven, the northwest quarter and southwest
quarter of the southwest quarter of section twelve, lot
one of section fourteen, and lots one and two of section
thirteen, township twenty-seven north, range twenty-two
east, Willamette meridian, Washington, free of all restrictions as to sale, incumbrance, or taxation."
And on August 2, 1905, pursuant to this authority, a
patent was issued to Long Jim for the lands that had been
allotted to him, including those that were included in his
deed to the plaintiff.
By act of March 8, 1906, c. 629; 34 Stat. 55; a general
provision was made for the issuance of patents for the
lands allotted to Indians under the Moses Agreement
and the act ratifying it, the patents to "be of legal effect
and declare that the United States does and will hold the
lands thus allotted for the period of ten years from the
date of the approval of this Act in trust for the sole use
and benefit of the Indian to whom such allotment was
made, or in case of his decease, either prior or subsequert
to the issuance of such patent, of his heirs, according to
the laws of the State of Washington, and that at the expiration of said period the United States will convey the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

2127 U. S.

same by patent to the said Indian, or his heirs as aforesaid,
in fee, discharged of said trust and free of all charge or
incumbrance whatsoever." The same act provided that
an allottee holding such a trust patent might sell the lands
covered thereby, except eighty acres, under rules and
regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior;
and provided that any conveyance or contract of sale
made within the trust period except as provided by the
act, should be absolutely null and void.
The plaintiff in error contends (1) that the land allotted
to Long Jim in the year 1894 passed to him in fee under
the terms of the Moses Agreement and the act of ratification, and therefore passed to the plaintiff under the deed
of 1900; and, failing this, (2) that the deed, having contained covenants of warranty, operated by way of estoppel to pass to the plaintiff the title afterwards acquired
by Long Jim by virtue of the patent of August 2, 1905.
In United States v. Moore, 154 Fed. Rep. 712, it was held
by the United States Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Washington that lands allotted to Indians in
severalty under the Moses Agreement and the act of
confirmation, and the Executive Order of May 1, 1886,
became vested in the allottees in fee simple. The Circuit
Court of Appeals reversed this decision. 161 Fed. Rep.
513. The Supreme Court of Washington, in the present
case (52 Washington, 138), followed the reasoning and
opinion of the Court of Appeals. We concur in the result
reached, and have little to add.
As to the principles to be kept in view in construing an
agreement with the Indians, we adhere to what was said
in Jones v. Meehan, 175 U. S. 1, 10, 11,
"In construing any treaty between the United States
and an Indian tribe, it must always . . . be borne in
mind that the negotiations for the treaty are conducted, on
the part of the United States, an enlightened and powerful
nation, by representatives skilled in diplomacy, masters of

STARR v. LONG JIM.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a written language, understanding the modes and forms:
of creating the various technical estates known to their
law, and assisted by an interpreter employed by themselves; that the treaty is drawn up by them and in their
own language; that the Indians, on the other hand, are a
weak and dependent people, who have no written language and are wholly unfamiliar with all the forms of legal
expression, and whose only knowledge of the terms in
which the treaty is -framed is that imparted to them by
the interpreter employed by the United States; and that
the treaty must therefore be construed, not according to
learned lawyers,
the technical meaning of its words to
but in the sense in which they would naturally be understood by the Indians."
The Moses Agreement is quite informal, and it has been
and should be construed in such manner as to confer upon
the Indians the full measure of benefit that it was intended
to secure to them. But it hardly follows that they would
be more benefited by having the lands in fee than by having them held in trust for them by the Government. That
part of the agreement now in question provided that each
head of family or male adult on the Columbia Reservation
should be entitled to one square mile of land-"in the possession and ownership of which they shall be guaranteed
and protected." This is at least as consistent with a beneficial ownership, leaving the title in the Government, as
with the vesting of a fee simple title in the Indian.
But whatever may have been the intent of the framers
of the agreement, § 2079, Rev. Stat., prohibited the making
of any contract with the Indians by treaty; and the Moses
Agreement was expressly made "upon the condition that
Congress will make an appropriation of funds necessary to
accomplish the foregoing, and confirm this agreement."
The act of confirmation (23 Stat., c. 180) was subject to
the proviso that the Secretary of the Interior should cause
the quantity of land stipulated to bc selected in as compact

,('TOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

form as possible, "the same, when so selected, to be held
for the exclusive use and occupation of said Indians, and
the remainder of said reservation to be thereupon restored
to the public domain, and shall be disposed of to actual
settlers under the homestead laws," etc. Irrespective of
the general recognition of the guardianship of the Government over the Indians, the clear antithesis in this proviso
between the disposition of other lands to settlers and the
retention of the lands in question for the use and occupation of the Indians, admits of but one construction.
The Executive Order of August 1, 1886, is consistent
with this. So are the decisions of the General Land Office
and the Secretary of the Interior, already referred to,
(16 L. D. 15; 32 L. D. 568).
And the act of March 3, 1905 (33 Stat. 1048, 1064,
c. 1479), above quoted, expressly authorizing and directing
the Secretary of the Interior to issue a patent to Long
Jim for the lands that had been allotted to him, is a recognition by Congress that without the act he had no right
to the land in fee. Further corroboration is to be found
in the act of Maroh 8, 1906 (35 Stat. 55, c. 629), above
quoted, which requires patents to be issued, with a restriction against alienation, to the other beneficiaries of the
Moses Agreement.
The contention of the appellant that Long Jim had a
title in fee at the time of the making of the warranty deed
in the year 1900 must therefore receive a negative response.
As to the effect of the warranty upon the after-acquired
title, while the general rule is that a conveyance with
warranty estops the grantor, when he afterwards becomes
the owner of the land assumed to be granted, to deny the
grantee's title (Bigelow Estop., 2d ed., p. 324, etc.), it
is well settled that the doctrine does not apply to the case
of a conveyance made by one non sui juris, or that is contrary to public policy or statutory prohibition. Bank of

ZAVELO v. REEVES.
227 U. S.

625

Syllabus.

America v. Banks, 101 U. S. 240, 247; Doe v. Ford, 3 Ad.
& El. 649,; Den ex dent. Wooden v. Shotwell, 24 N. J. L.
789; Connor v. McMurray, 2 Allen (Mass.), 202, 204:
Doyle v. Coburn, 6 Allen, 71, 72; Merriam v. Boston &0'c.
RailroadCo., 117 Massachusetts, 241, 244; Brick v. Campbell, 122 N. Y. 337, 346; Kennedy v. McCartney, 4 Porter
(Ala.), 141, 158.
Since it is entirely plain, in the case before us, that the
title to the lands in question was retained by the United
States for reasons of public policy, and in order to protect
the Indians against their own improvidence, it follows as
matter of course that a conveyance made by one of them,
before the title was vested in him pursuant to the act of
1905, was in the very teeth of the policy of the law, and
could not operate as a conveyance, either by its primary
force or by Way of estoppel.
Judgment affirmed.

ZAVELO v. REEVES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.

No. 299.

Argued January 7, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

In the absence of any proof to that effect in the record, a promise by
the bankrupt made between the petition and the discharge to pay
the balance of his provable debt to one of his creditors who advanced
money to enable him to effect a composition without obtaining any
undue preference over the other creditor,, will not be regarded as
,in act of extortion or attempted extortion inviolation of § 291, 5
of the Bankruptcy Act, prohibiting acting or forbearing to aet in
bankruptcy proceedings.

A discharge, while releasing the bankrupt from legal liability to pay a
provable debt, leaves him under tmoral obligation that is sufficient
to support. a new promise to pay it.
l'he theory of bankruptcy is that the disblrge does not 'destroy the
debt but does destro" the remedy.
VOL.

CCXXVII

--

40

