ST. LOUIS, IRON MT. & S. RY. v. EDWARDS. 265
227 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

426. Because in the St. Clair Case, supra, it was decided
that a particular character of transportation of interstate
commerce was not ferriage and not within state power,
even where there had been no action by Congress, affords
no reason for in this case extending state authority to a
subject to which, consistently with the action of Congress,
it cannot be held to apply.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of
New Jersey will be reversed and the case remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN & SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. EDWARDS.
ERROR TO-THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 123.

Submitted January 20, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

Action by' Congress on a subject within its domain under the commerce
clause of thc Constitution results in excluding the States from acting
on that subject.
As applied to interstate shipments, the State cannot now impose
penalties for delay in delivery to consignee, is Congress has acted
on that subject by the passage of the Hepbi/rn Act. Chicago, R. I.
& Pac. Ry. Co. v. Hardiwick Elevator Co., 226 U. S. 426.
The so-called Demurrage Statute of 1907 of Arkansas requiring railroad
companies to give notice to consignees of arrival of shipments and
penalizing them- for non-compliance is an unconstitutional interfvrence with interstate commerce so far as interstate shipments are
concerned.
94 Arkansas, 394, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionm.lity under
the commerce-clause of the Constitution of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

227 U. S.

States of the Arkansas Demurrage Statute, are stated. in
the opinion.
Mr. Martin L. Clardy, Mr. H. G. Herbel, Mr. Lovick P.
Miles and Mr. Thos. B. Pryor for plaintiff in error:
The act is an attempt to exercise jurisdiction over interstate commerce in matters which have been the subject
of action by Congress and also by the Interstate Commerce Commission. Section 17 of the act expressly provides that interstate railroads shall furnish cars on application for interstate shipments, the same in all respects
as other cars are to be furnished by interstate railroads
under the provisions of this act. This section is merely
referred to to emphasize the fact that the entire act makes
no distinction between commerce within the State and
that between States. The validity of this act is now involved in the case of Hampton v. St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry.
Co., (see post, p. 458) which has been submitted to this
court, and the authorities to sustain the contention of the
invalidity of the act are collated in the brief filed on behalf
of defendant in error in that case. The case cited by the
Supreme Court of Arkansas, 12 I. C. C. Rep. 61, is certainly
overruled by the case of Wilson Produce Co. v. Railway, 14
I. C. C. Rep. 170, and in the later case of Peel & Co. v. Railway, 18 I. C. C. Rep. 33, and the rule adopted by the commission above referred to. The other eases cited in the
opinion below are not controlling as the same quest ion was
not involved.
The act in question finds no support in the decisions
referred to in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Arkansas; and see the opinion of that court when this act
was for the first time under consideration correctly stating
the law in Oliver v. C., R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 89 Arkansas,
468.
Congress has legislated upon the question involved; the
Interstate Commerce Commission has exercised jurisdic-

ST. LOUIS, IRON MT. & S. RY. v. EDWARDS.
227 U. S.

267

Opinion of the Court.

tion thereof, and all state statutes affecting the subject
when applied to interstate commerce must give way.
Shephard v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 184 Fed. Rep. 770;
Rhodes v. State of Iowa, 170 U. S. 412; McNeill v. Railway
Co., 202 U. S. 561. See Barnes on Interstate Transp.,

§ 276.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICF WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This writ of error is prosecuted to secure the reversal
of a judgment for seventy-five dollars, the amount of
penalties imposed upon the plaintiff in error for delay in
giving notice to the" consignee, defendant in error, of the
arrival of a carload of freight at the termination of an
interstate commerce shipment. The exaction was authorized by § 3 of a law of the State of Arkansas, approved
April 19, 1907 (Act 193, Acts of 1907, p. 453), entitled
"An Act to regulate freight transportation of railroad
companies doing business in the State of Arkansas."
The section is copied in the margin.'
SEC. 3. Railroad companies shall, within twenty-four hours after
the arrival of shipments, give notice, by mail or otherwise, to consignee.
of the arrival of shipments, together with the weight and amount of
freight charges due thereof; and where goods or freight in carload quantities arrive, such notices shall contain also identifying numbers, letters
and initials of the car or cars, and if transferred in transit, the number
and initials of the car in which originally shipped. Any railroad company failing to give such notice shall forfeit and pay to the shipper, or
other party whose interest is affected, the sum of five dollars per car
per day, or fraction of a day's delay, on all carload shipments, and one
cent per hundred pounds per day, or fraction thereof, on freight in
less than carloads, with a minimum charge of five cents for any one
package, after the expiration of the said twenty-four hours; provided,
that not more than five dollars per day be charged for any one consignment not in excess of a carload.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

The right to impose the penalty was challenged and the
validity of the section of the statute authorizing it was
assailed by demurrer on the ground of repugnancy to the
commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States.
The question here for decision is whether the court below
was right in overruling the Federal defense which was
thus relied upon. 94 Arkansas, 394.
The Arkansas statute is styled in the opinion of the
court below "the Demurrage Statute," and the penalty
imposed by § 3 is referred to as a "demurrage charge."
And in the same connection it is observed "There are other
sections of the statute imposing d~murrage charges on
consignees for failure to remove freight, thus making the
burdens of the whole statute reciprocal." It follows that
the section under consideration was but intended to subject carriers to the penalties which the section provides
because of a failure to make prompt delivery of freight
on arrival at destination. As applied to interstate commerce, however, we think such penalties were not enforceable because of a want of power in the State to impose
them in view of the legislation of Congress existing at the
time the alleged duty to give notice arose. Recently in
Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway Co. v. Hardwick
Farmers' Elevator Company, 226 U. S. 426, a regulation
of the State of Minnesota enacted after the passage of the
Hepburn Act imposing penalties on carriers for failing
on demand to furnish a supply of cars for the movement,
of interstate traffic was held invalid because of the absence
of power in a State in consequence of the Hepburn Act to
provide for such penalties. While the case before us concerns the power of a State over the delivery of cars in
consummation of an interstate shipment, we nevertheless
think that the Hardwick Case is controlling because the
legislation of Congress as clearly excludes the right of a
State to penalize for failure to deliver interstate freight
at the termination of an interstate shipment as it, was

ST. LOUIS, IRON MT. & S. RY. v. EDWARDS.
227 U. S.

269

Opinion of the Court.

found to prevent a State from penalizing for failure to
furnish cars for the initiation of the movement of interstate traffic. This conclusion is necessary since the amendment to § 1 of the Act to Regulate Commerce by which a
definition is given to the term transportation and which in
the Hardwiclc Case was held to exclude the right of a State
to penalize for the non-delivery of cars to initiate the movement of an interstate shipment, by its very tewns embraces
the obligation of a carrier to deliver to the consignee,
and therefore by the same token excludes the right of a
State to penalize on that subject. The provision of the
Hepburn Act in question is copied in the margin.I
We are referred in argument to no other provision of
the act tending in the slightest degree to indicate that the
duties which were united by the provisions of one section
of the act were divorced by another and were made therefore subject to the possibility of varying and it may be
conflicting state penalties. On the contrary, in this instance as in the one considered in the Hardwick Case, the
context of the act adds strength to the conviction produced by the definition of the first section, and therefore
gives rise to the conviction that the context of the statute,
not only as was held in the Hardwick Case, excludes the
right of a State to regulatd by penalties or demurrage
charges the obligation of furnishing the means of interstate transportation, but also excludes power in a State
to impose penalties as a means of compelling the perthe term "transportation" shall include cars and other
vehicles and all instrumentalities and facilities of shipment or carriage,
irrespective of ownership or of any contract, express or implied, for the
use thereof and all services in connection with the receipt, delivery,
elevation, and transfer in transit, ventilation, refrigeration or icing,
storage, and handling of property transported; and it shall be the duty
of every carrier subject to the provisions of this act to provide and
furnish such transportation upon reasonable request therefor, and to
establish through routes and just and reasonable rates applicable
thereto.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

formance of the duty to promptly deliver in consummation
of such transportation.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas is
reversed with costs, and the case is remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

PEOPLE OF PORTO

RICO v. ROSALY Y CASTILLO.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 145.

Submitted January 24, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

The government of Porto Rico cannot be sued without its consent.
The government of Porto Rico, as established by 'the Organic Act,
with some possible exceptions, comes within the general rule exempting a government sovereign in its attributes.
That government of Porto Rico, as established by the Organic Act of
April 12, 1900, is a strong likeness of that established for Hawaii
which has immunity from suit. Kawananakoa v. Polyblank, 205
U. S. 349.
The provision in § 7 of the Organic Act of Porto Rico that the people
of Porto Rico .shall have power to sue and be sued is not to be construed as destroying the grant of sovereignty given by the act itself.
Like words may have one significance in one context and a different
signification ift another.
In construing an organic act of a Territory 'this court will consider
that Congress intended to create a government conforming to the
American system of divided powers-legislative, executive and
judicial-and did not intend to give to any one branch of that government power by which the government itself so created could be
destroyed.
The words "to sue and be sued" as used in § 7 of the Organic Act of
Porto Rico, when construed in connection with the grant of governmental powers therein contained, amount only to a recognition of a
liability to be sued in case of consent duly given.
16 Porto Rico, 481, reversed.

