OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

227 UM S.

&c.;, with interest, from sales of the land. It prayed that
the plaintiff be declared to have an equitable mortgage
lien upon Rainey's interest, paramount to Luke's title
whatever it might be. This obviously was enough to put
the Lukes upon inquiry as to the precise character of a
contract that was alleged, and 'truly alleged as it turns
out, to lay the foundation for an equitable interest superior to theirs.
Judgment affirmed.

PEOPLE OF PORTO RICO v. TITLE GUARANTY
AND SURETY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 154.

Argued January 30, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

In this case held that a bond given in pursuance of an ordinance, for
faithful performance of a contract, was solely for the complete result
at the end of the period specified, and that it did not permit a recovery of the whole penalty upon any intermediate breach.
Breaches of subordinate requirements, which are specified in a contract
for a public utility and .bond foir performance and are simply means
to al end, cannot be made the basis of recovering the whole penalty
after final completion or after cancellation by the obligee of *the
franchise.
If within time for completion of a public utility authorized by ordinance, the municipality itself makes performance impossible, it cannot, under any system of law in Porto Rico or elsewhere, recover
upon the bond for failure to perform.
i80 Fed. Rep. 641, affirmed.

THE facts, which'involve the liability of a surety company on a bond given for faithful performance of a contract, are stated in the opinion.

PORTO RICO v. TITLE GUARANTY CO.
227 U. S.

383

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. William Jessup Hand for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. John G. Johnson and Mr. Everett Warren for defendant in error.
Mn. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit upon a joint and several bond executed
by the defendant in error as surety for the Vandegrift
Construction Company. In the Circuit Court a nonsuit
was ordered and the order was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals on the ground that the plaintiff by its
own act had made performance of the condition impossible. 103 C. C. A. 607; 180 Fed. Rep. 641'. The facts
are these:
By an ordinance of March 2, 1903, Porto Rico granted
to the Vandegrift Company the right to build and operate
an electric railway and also a power plant in specified
places in the island. Within one year from acceptance
of the grant the grantee was to have its roadbed completely graded between the Island of San Juan and the
urban portion of the municipality of Caguas, and the
foundations and approaches of a certain bridge completed.
Section 15. Within two years it was to have the parts of
the railway lying between the urban portion of San Juan
and Caguas and certain other points finished and ready
for service. Section 16. Within three years it was to
have the whole line completed and in operation. Section 17. It was stated to be expressly understood and
agreed that upon the grantee's failure to have the line
in full operation within the time limited, i. e. three years,
the grantee's right to operate any part of it or to sell
electric light and power should cease unless the failure
should be declared by the Executive Council to be due to
one of certain excuses, such as the act of God. Section 16.
A power dam at Comerio Falls was to be coinpleted in
one year and the greater part of the electric apparatus

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

contracted for; the whole power plant and transmission
lines necessary for operating the railway to be completed
within three years. Section 18. The grantee was to
pay the government two per cent. of its gross receipts
from the sale of light and power to private consumers,
§ 23, was not to charge above certain maxima fixed for
passengers and freight, § 25, and was to carry certain persons, such as prisoners and police on duty, free of charge.
Sections 27, 28. The rights, privileges and concessions
granted by the ordinance were expressed to be subject
to amendment, alteration or repeal by the Executive
Council. Section 30. Then it was provided that the
rights granted "shall be accepted by the grantee in writing
and by executing a bond in favor of the People of Porto
Rico, in the sum of one hundred thousand dollars satisfactory etc., . . . and conditioned upon the full
completion of the work herein authorized within three
years after such acceptance and in accordance with the
conditions herein contained, and in accordance with the
plans and specifications therefor approved as herein provided; and conditioned also upon the payment by the
grantee to the People of Porto Rico of any loss or damage
or costs accruing against the People of Porto Rico, by
reason of the construction of the works herein authorized,
at any time during the period of construction herein lirited" &c. Section 34.
Upon presentation of a certificate of completion from
the Commissioner of the Interior, "and upon the full
compliance with the terms of this ordinance to the satisfaction of the Executive Council, and upon the full payment by the grantee of any loss, damage and costs accruing against the People of Porto Rico as in said bond
provided, the said bond shall be cancelled." - Section 35.
Finally the ordinance is to "take effect immediately upon
the acceptance by the grahtee of the terms and conditions
hereof as above provided." Section 38.

PORTO RICO v. TITLE GUARANTY CO.
227 U. S.

385

Opinion of the Court.

The bond in suit was executed, referring to and annexing the ordinance, and conditioned among other things
that the principal, within three years from the date of the

acceptance by it of the ordinance should fully complete
the work 'in accordance with the conditions therein contained; 'and again that it should 'duly perform within the
said period of three (3) years, all other terms and conditions in said ordinance required to be performed by the
principal within the said period.'
1 The

whole condition of the bond was as follows:
"Now, therefore, the condition of this obligation is such that if the
said Principal shall within three years from the date of the acceptance
by it of said ordinance fully complete the work therein authorized in
accordance with the conditions therein contained and in accordance
with the plans and specifications therefor approved as therein provided;
and within the said period of three (3) years from the date of the
acceptance by it of the said ordinance shall build, complete and have
in operation the entire line of railway authorized therein for such terminal in the Municipality of San Juan as may be determined by the
said-Executive Council to its terminal on the Playa of Ponce on a route
from Ponce to be determined by the said Executive Council in accordance with the conditions in said' ordinance contained, and in accordance with the plans and specifications therefor approved, as in
said ordinance provided, and witlin the said period of three (3) years
from the date of the acceptance by it of the said ordinance, shall also
complete and have in operation the entire power plant and transmission lines necessary for operation the said entire line of railway, in
accordance with the conditions therein contained, and in accordance
with the plans and specifications therefor approved as therein provided;
and shall duly perform within the said period of three (3) years, all
other terms and conditions in said ordinance required to be performed
by the Principal within the said period; and shall pay to the obligee
any loss or damage accruing against the said obligee by reason of the
construction of the works in said ordinance authorized at any time during the period of construction therein limited and before the completion
of said work shall have been certified by the Commissioner of the Interior, as in Section 35 of said ordinance provided-then this obligation
shall be void, otherwise to remain in full force and effect.
"Provided, however, and upon the following express conditions.

vom. ccxxvii-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

The principal failed to do within the year the work
required by § 15 to be completed in that time as has been
stated, and a little more than two months after the year
elapsed, in July, 1904, the Executive Council passed an
ordinance amending §§ 15, 18 and 30 of the former one,
the amendment being approved by the President on
August 2. The time allowed in § 15 was extended to
January 1, 1905, provided that the number of men employed on or before August 7 should be not less than 250
and that the number should be increased up to 500 or
thereabouts, the intent expressed being that as many men
should be engaged as was necessary to complete the
work, and provided that the men should be paid weekly,
and provided further that upon failure to comply with
the terms and conditions of the amendment the franchise
should be subject to immediate forfeiture. The requirement in § 18 as to the power-dam at Comerio Falls, &c.,
also was extended to January 1, 1905. Finally to the
provision in § 30 as to amendment, &c., of the concession
there was added the express requirement of the approval of
the Governor of Porto Rico and of the President of the
United States, and the statement that it was subject to
the power of Congress to annul or modify the same.
This amendment seems to have been sought and accepted
"First: That no extension of the time or times limited in said ordinance for the completion of the work therein authorized or any part
thereof, whether granted with or without the knowledge and consent
of the Sureties, shall in any way discharge the Sureties from liability

upon this bond; and,
"Second: That no suit, action or proceeding shall be brought or
instituted against the Sureties after the period of five (5) years from
the date hereof upon or by reason of any default on the part of the
Principal in the performance of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this bond. But all extensions of time granted under the term
of the 'franchise shall be added to the term of five (5), years, so that the
life of the bond shall be kept in full force for the five (5) years, and so
much additional time as shall be coVered by the extension granted."

PORTO RICO v. TITLE GUARANTY CO.

387

Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

by the principal, but was not known to the defendant
Surety Company, so far as appears.
In February, 1905, a further ordinance was passed,
approved by the Governor in March and by the President on May 12, which recited a failure by the Company
to comply with the terms of §§ 15 and 18, either in
their original form or as amended, and therefore repealed
and revoked the grant and declared all "sureties or obligations . . . given by the said grantee as a guaranty

.

.

.

forfeited to the People of Porto Rico to all

and whatsoever extent the same shall be liable under the
law." In September, 1906, this suit was begun.
The main question is the scope of the condition of the
bond. The plaintiff says that it was for the due performance of all the terms required by the ordinance, and,
since the bond was a contract made in Porto Rico, as no
doubt it was, at least as between these parties, that upon
any breach of condition the whole penalty became due by
the local law. Civil Code, §§ 1120, 1121. . The Circuit
Court of Appeals on the other hand assumed that the
bond was only for the result at the end of three -years.
After some hesitation we have come to the conclusion
that the court was right. It is true that the bond is to be
read in connection with the original ordinance and that
the latter contained terms that were not complied with.
But the ordinance only required a bond for the full completion of the work within three years and in accordance
with the conditions therein contained and the plans.
Section 34. In the ordinance the only condition properly
so called, the only fact that warranted a revocation of the
grant apart from the general power to repeal, was by § 16 a
failure to have the whole railway 'in operation as required
by § 17. There was no forfeiture for falling short of the
requirements in §§ 15 and 16 as to the progress to be made
in one and two years. The bond in like matiner has for
its principal condition the completion of the work within

OCTOBER TERM, 1912,
Opinion of t he Court,

227 1. S.

three years. It is true that the completion was to be in
accordance with the terms containied in the ordinance,
but this clause cannot mean that if the road and works
were in satisfactory operation within three years the obligee
could recur to the history of events and, if it found that
some item was uot finished within the time allowed for it,
could set up that fact as a breach and, by its interpretation
of Porto Rican law, recover the whole penalty of the
bond. The subordinate requirements were simply means
to an end, and if the end was reached their importance
disappeared. The very contentions of the plaintiff as to
the liability incurred upon any breach are arguments
against Supposing that- such incidental failures to be on
time had such a consequence attached.
There is a further provision for the principal performing,
'within the said period of three (3) years, all other terms
and conditions in said ordinance required to be performed
by the principal within the s.,id period.' Th"is perhaps
affords the plaintiff its strongest argument. But this is a
residuary clause to cover matters that may have escaped
consideration. The building of the road and works already
have been dealt with, and this clause as to 'other' terms
hardly can be supposed to have reference to them. If it
does, however, it would seem to us that the limitation of
time should be construed as looking to the end of the
three years and allowing that period, rather than distributively and as meaning from time to timeduring three
years. The same considerations that apply to the construction of the principal condition apply to this, and it
appears to us that the provision for the cancellation of the
bond upon certificate showing the completion of the work,
'and upon the full compliance with the terms of this
ordinance to the satisfaction of the Executive Council'
is not enough to change what we understand to be the
import of the instrument upon its face. Finally the
proviso that no extension of the time or times limited for

CRENSHAW v. ARKANSAS.
227 V. S.

Syllabus.

the completion of the work 'or any part thereof' shall
discharge the surety at most merely recognizes that the
principal by accepting the ordinance contracted to do the
parts of the work as required, as well as the whole, and
with natural caution saves the rights of the obligee against
the surety in case of any extension of time, a matter that
obligees have learned to fear.
If our construction of the bond is right it does not need
much argument to show that the plaintiff is not entitled
to recover, seeing that within three years it took the
franchise back. It was said at the- bar, though not admitted, that the principal had given up work. But there
had been no repudiation of the contract, and the plaintiff
could not accelerate the forfeiture simply on the ground
that it was likely to come about. If, within the time
allowed for performance the plaintiff made performance
impossible, it ig unimaginable that any civilized system
of law would allow it to recover upon the bond for a
failure to perform. 2 B1. Comm. 340, 341. United States
v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691, 745, 746.
Judgment afrmed.

CRENSHAW v. STATE OF ARKANSAS.
GANNAWAY v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
Nos. 127, 128.

Argued January 20,21, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

The negotiation of sales of goods which are in another State, for the
purpose of introducing them in the State in which the negotiation is
made, is interstat commerce. Robbins v. Shlby County Taxing
Dist'ict, 120 U. S. 489.
The police power of a State cannot obstruct foreign or interstate

