BAXTER v. BUCHHOLZ-HILL CO.
227 U. S.

6V

Opinion of the Court,.

right of property either in the land or in goods upon ti(
land, there might be an irrevocable right of entry, bul
when the contract stands by itself it must be either ai
conveyance or a license subject to be revoked.
Judgment affirmed.

BAXTER v. BUCHHOLZ-HILL TRANSPORTATION
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 882.

Submitted February 24, 1913.-Decided March 10, 1913,

the decree in a case is the dominant act anuo cannot be given a greater
effect than it purports to have ano than would be warranted by the
opinion that the court finally%' ,ac1,P6.
The fact that a court in dismissing a li)el without prejudice to a new
suit expressed a decision on the merits, which it afterwards, on motion, excluded, does not make the (tecree as finally entered a decisioi
on the merits.
While a matter is still in ita I)beast. the court may change its opinion
aod do so by changing the decree.
Writ of error to review, 206 N. Y: 173, dismissed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Arthur English, for defenuant in error, in support
of motion to dismiss or affirm.
A!r. Charles C. Brl.img/,nm, Mr. Norman B. Becchrr
and Air. a4y Rood Allen for plaintiff in error, in opposition

thereto.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court.
MR. JUSTiCE HOLMES.

By

63b

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of tile Court.

227 U. S.

This is an action brought by the Buchholz-Hill Transportation Company, defendant in error, against Baxter
for failing to use due diligence in locating and marking a
sunken coal barge with a buoy, as he had agreed to, by
reason of which failure a tug ran into the wreck and was
sunk. It is alleged that the owners of the tug libelled the
barge in the admiralty, that the Buchholz-Hill Company
answered and filed a petition to bring in Baxter under the
59th Admiralty Rule, that the District Court entered a
decree against the barge but gave costs to Baxter without
prejudice to a new action against him; and that the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree. The defendant
set up the decree dismissing the libel as against him,
alleging that the decision was upon the merts and thot
the decree, in so far as it purported to be Without prejudice.
was not warranted by law., The Appellate Division and
the Court of Appeals both held the plea bad. 142 App.
Div. 25. 206 N. Y. 173.
The defendant relies upon the fact that the Circuit:
Court of Appeals in its opinion expressed a decision upozi
the merits. The Macy, 96 C. C. A. 146. 170 Fed. Rep.
930. But upon motion it so far changed its view as
exclude such a decision and to leave it open to the coMpany to bring a new action. The matter was still in the
breast of the court; it was free to change its opinion if it
saw fit, and it was free to do so by changing the decrN.
without delivering a new opinion to explain what the
decree made manifest. If it thought, rightly or wrongly.
that the collateral question of the present defendant's
liability could not be tried in that case, it properly embodied its decision in the decree. The decree is the dominant act and cannot be given a greater effect than it
.purports to have and than would be warranted by the
opinion that the court finally reached.,
Writ of error dismissed.

