OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

to the benefit of the writ, because since the appeal he has
given bond in the District Court and has been released
from arrest under the warrant issued on the indictment.
He is no longer in the custody-of the marshal to whom the
writ is addressed, and from whose custody he seeks to be
discharged. The defendant is now at liberty, and having
secured the very relief which the writ of habeas corpus was
intended to afford to those held under warrants issued on
indictments, the appeal must be
Dismissed.

NEW YORK CENTRAL & HUDSON RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY v. BOARD OF CHOSEN FREEHOLDERS OF THE COUNTY OF HUDSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
JERSEY.

No. 50. Argued November 13, 1912.-Decided February 24, 1913.
Congress, by passing the Act to Regulate Commerce, has taken control
of interstate railroads, and having expressly included ferries used in
connection therewith, has destroyed the power of the States to regulate such ferries. Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S.
196, distinguished.
Quere: Whether Covington Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204, overruled Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196.
An assertion of power by Congress over a subject within its domain
must be treated as coterminous with its authority over the subject,
and leaves no element of the subject to control of the State.
The operation at one time of both the power of Congress and that of
the State over a matter of interstate commerce is inconceivable; the
execution of the greater power takes possession of the field and
leaves nothing upon which the lesser power can operate.

N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. v. HUDSON COUNTY.
227 U.S.

249

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

No portion of the business of a ferry which is part of an interstate railway is under the control of the State; and so held that the state authorities have no power to regulate the fare of passengers, whether
railroad passengers or not, on the ferry between Weehawken, New
Jersey, and New York City, known as the West Shore Ferry and,
operated by the New York Central & Hudson River Railroad.
76 N. J. L. 664, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the commerce clause of an ordinance of Hudson County,
New Jersey, fixing rates of ferriage across the Hudson river
to New York City on the ferry operated by the New York
Central & Hudson River Railroad as lessee of the West
Shore Railroad Company, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Albert C.. Wall and Mr. Frank Bergen, with whom
Mr. James B. Vredenburgh and Mr. Thomas Emery were
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The regulation of the rates and fares for transportation
via these ferries is inoperative because it conflicts with
the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United
States. Covington Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204.
Commerce national in character is for Congress to
regulate. Non-action implies it shall be unregulated.
Wabash Railway v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557.
The Covington Bridge Case has been cited many times
by the court. See The Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 352; The
Gloucester Ferry Case, 114 U. S. '196; Hanley v. Kansas
City Ry. Co., 187 U. S. 617; St. Clair County v. Interstate
Transfer Co., 192 U. S. 454.
While Chosen Freeholders v. State, 3 Zab. 206, affirmed,
4 Zab. 718, purports to sustain the right and power of the
state authorities to regulate the rates and fares chargeable
for interstate ferry transportation, the cases cited as
authority for the conclusion there announced did not
involve and were not authoritative upon the point decided, and the absence of Federal legislation upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

227 U. S.

subject was superseded by the act of Congress of 1866,
ch. 124, and of 1887, ch. 104, regulating interstate transportation. People v. Babcock, 11 Wend. 586; Gibbon- v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 203; Smith v. Turner, 7 How. 393; Cooley
v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 319, do not support the
conclusion of that case.
Congress has legislated concerning ferries operated in
connection-with railroads. See § 1, Int. Comm. Act of
February 4, 1887.
The Hepburn Amendment of 1906 leaves this language
unchanged.
The railroad company has fiLd a copy of its tariff with
the Commission.
By the requirement of the act of Congress of the filing of
this tariff, and the filing of the tariff in obedience thereto,
the tariff became a law governing the transportation
precisely as if the tariff itself had been enacted by Congress in the same words and figures. Gulf, Colorado &
Santa Fe R. Co. v. Hefley & Lewis, 158 U. S. 98; Texas &
Pacific R. Co. v. Dryden, 202 U. S.242; Missouri Pacific
R. Co. v. Larabee Mills Co., 211 U. S. 612, 623; Poor v.
C., B. & Q. R. Co., 12 I. C. C. Rep. 418, 422; Armour
Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S.56, 80.
The exercise of the power which the Board of Freeholders here asserts is in conflict with the exclusive power
of regulation of the same subject-matter by Federal
authority. Sinnott v. Davenport, 22 How. 227.
The ferryboats are subjects of admiralty jurisdiction.
The St. Louis, 48 Fed. Rep. 312; Railroad Co. v. Richmond, 19 Wall. 584; Bowman v. Chi. & N. W. Ry. Co.,
125,U. S.465, 484; Illinois Cent. R. R. Co. v. Illinois, 163
U. S.142.
The resolutions contain no provision in respect of the
time at which they-are to go into effect.
Obedience thereto would have been violative of the
express inhibitions of the interstate commerce acts and

N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. v.HUDSON COUNTY.
227 U. S.

251

Argument for Defendant in Error.

subjected the railroad company to the penalties therein
prescribed in respect of such violation.
Exercise by the State of its power to create corporations
and confer upon them charter powers to maintain and
operate instrumentalities of interstate transportation does
not draw to the State the power of regulation of the rates
of fares or tolls for such transportation.
Considering the ferry as the landing, the license and
regulation of its maintenance and operation may be of
state cognizance, and nevertheless, if the ferry be interstate the ferriage fare is the subject of United States
governance.
The Board of Freeholders of the County of Hudson
has not the power to fix the rates of ferriage of footpassengers on these ferries over the Hudson river, from
New York to New Jersey.
Mr. E. Parmalee Prentice, with whom Mr. John Griffin
and Mr. George Welwood Murray were on the brief, for
defendant in error:
The resolutions of the Board of Freeholders are not
invalid as a regulation of commerce among the States.
Federal power over commerce among the States is
exclusive only in matters of general concern.
In all local matters state statutes are valid until superseded by Congress. Cooley v. Port Wardens, 12 How. 310;
Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S..691, 702; Atlantic &c. Company v. Philadelphia,190 U. S. 160; Bowman v. Railroad
Co., 125 U. S. 465, 507; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100;
Stoughtenburgh v. Hennick, 129 U. S. 141; Telegraph Co.
v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347; Ouachita Packet Co. v. Aiken,
121 U. S. 444; Robbins v. Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489;
Wabash Railway v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557; Morgan v.
Louisiana, 118 U. S. 455; Cardwell v. Bridge Co., 113
U. S. 205, 210; Willoughby on the Fed. Const., § 309.
The power to regulate commerce is given to Congress,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

227 U. S.

not to the courts. The question whether a particular
statute of a State is prohibited by congressional silence, is
a question for Congress. State laws should not be held
void except in cases so clear that Congress could not
overrule the judicial decision. Thayer, Cases on Const.
Law, ,2190-2191.
Regulation of ferry rates is a matter of local concern
within state jurisdiction.
I The States always have regulated ferriage alike over
intrastate and boundary streams.
The existing statutes under which the States now regulate ferriage over intrastate and boundary streams
support this proposition.
The subject is one which demands intimate knowledge
of local conditions. State legislatures have never been
able to deal with ferriage by general law, and have turned
the subject over to local town and county authorities.
It would be impossible for Congress to perform the work
now done by supervisors, county commissioners, boards
of freeholders, etc. Vermont Act of Feb. 27, 1787; Session
Laws, p. 70.
The decisions of this Court and of the state courts
support the existing practice which recognizes state jurisdiction.
A practical and long-continued construction of the
Constitution by the States and by Congress is conclusive
in this court. Stuart v. Laird, 1 Cranch, 299; License
Cases, 5 How. 507, 607; Conway v. Taylor, 1 Black, 603;
Carrollv. Campbell, 108 Missouri, 550, 564-565.
This practice, continued now for an additional halfcentury, is no less conclusive in tlie case at bar. Unless
this rule be followed and the course of governmental
administration by other branches of government and by
the States be recognized, the separation of powers, and
government by three co6rdinate departments would be
impossible.

N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. v. HUDSON COUNTY.
227 U. S.

253

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Regulation of ferries on intrastate and boundary
streams was, until 1885, considered a matter of state
police jurisdiction beyond Federal authority. Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1. (See Mr. Webster's statement on
pp. 18, 20); Conway v. Taylor, 1 Black, 603; Fanning v.
Gregoire, 16 How. 524; Wiggins Ferry Co. v. East St. Louis,
107 U. S. 365, aff'g 102 Illinois, 560; Mills v. St Clair
County, 2 Gilm. (Ill.) 197; aff'd 8 How. (U. S.) 569;
People v. Babcock, 11 Wend. 586; Ferry Co. v. United
States, 5 Blatchf. 198; Chilvers v. People, 11 Michigan, 43;
Marshall v. Grimes, 41 Mississippi, 27; Mayor &c. v.
Longstreet, 64 How. Pr. 30; Gould on Waters, § 35.
The decision of the Gloucester Ferry Case, 114 U. S. 196,
decided in 1885, established Federal jurisdiction to legislate
concerning ferriage over boundary streams, but did not
turn what had been an exclusive state jurisdiction into an
exclusive Federal jurisdiction. State laws on this subject
are still valid until superseded by a Federal statute.
The legal definition of a ferry refers to the point of
departure as the situs of the ferry.' The ferry: franchise
consists in the right of transporting from -that point.
Conway v. Taylor, 1 Black, 603; Memphis v. Overton, 3
Yerg. (Tenn.) 387, 390; State v. Faudre, 54 W. Va. 122;
Power v. Village of Athens, 99 N. Y. 592; Massachusetts,
Act of 1641, Laws 1792-1800, p. 965; West Virginia
Code, 1906, Chap.'44, § 15.
Under this definition no conflict of laws can arise upon
boundary streams, for a municipality or State upon one
side Of the stream has complete control of ferriage from its
own shore, and cannot interfere with ferriage from the
opposite shore.
The franchise to leave a State comes from state law,
which imposes also the duty of the carrier to receive,
carry and deliver. Louisville Feri-y Co. v. Kentucky, 188
U. S. 385, 394; Bowman v. Chicago &c. Railway, 115 U. S.
611, 615.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

227 U. S.

The Constitution does not confer the right of intercourse between State and State. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 211; Federal Common Law and Interstate Carriers, 9 Columbia Law Rev. 375; Federal Power over
Carriers and Corporations (Macmillan, 1907), pp. 23-37;
124-130; Re Transportationof Fruit, 10 I. C. C. Rep. 360.
Some recent cases suggest that there is also a Federal
right to engage in interstate commerce, but this proposition has never been advanced without dissent, and in any
event does not deny the right derived from state law.
The state franchise is the historic right upon which the
common law of carriers is built. Crouch v. London &
N. W. Ry., 14 C. B. 255.
The privilege of keeping a ferry over boundary streams,
with the right to take toll for passengers and freight, is
grantable by the State, to be exercised within such limits
and under such regulations as may be required for the
safety, comfort and convenience of the public. Gloucester
Ferry Case, 114 U. S. 196, 217; State v. Faudre,54 W. Va.
122; Ferry Co. v. Russell, 52 W. Va. 356; Cross v. Hopkins,
6 W. Va. 323; Carroll v. Campbell, 108 Missouri, 550;
State v. Sickmann, 65 Mo. App. 499; Tugwell v.
Eagle Pass Ferry Co., 74 Texas, 480; Parsons v. Hunt, 98
Texas, 420; Nixon v. Reid, 8 So. Dak. 507; Hatten v.
Turman, 123 Kentucky, 844.
The majority opinion in the Covington Bridge Case, 154
U. S. 204, considered in connection with the facts before
the court, announced no new rule.
The cases which recognize state power to regulate
ferries over boundary streams are still authoritative.
Williams v. Wing, 177 U. S. 601.
Louisville Ferry Case, 188 U. S. 385, approves Conway v. Taylor, 1 Black, 6D3. See, also, St. Clair County
v. Transfer Co., 192 U. S. 454; Burlington &c. Ferry
Co. v. Davies, 48 Iowa, 133; Phillips v. Bloomington,
1 Greene (Iowa), 498, 502; Bowman v. Walthen, 2 Me-

N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. v. HUDSON COUNTY. 255
227 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Lean, 370; Challiss v. Davis, 56 Missouri, 25; Columbia
&c. Bridge Co. v. Geisse, 38 N. J. L. 39 ; Gear v. Bullerdike,
34 Illinois, 74.
The second resolution, regulating rates for a round trip
starting from the New Jersey side, is within the jurisdiction of New Jersey. State v. Sickmann, 65 Mo. App. 499.
. There is no Federal statute which supersedes state
jurisdiction to regulate ferries.
The New Jersey courts have construed the regulations
involved in the case at bar as applying only to such ferry
service as is disconnected from railroad transportation.
The distinction between ordinary ferriage and ferriage
which is connected with railroad transportation is well
recognized. Interstate Commerce Act, § 1; St. Clair
County v. Transfer Co., 192 U. S. 454.
The construction of a state law by the state courts is
accepted in this court as final. Collins v. Texas, 223
U. S. 288; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Larabee Mills,
211 U. S. 612; Louisville &c. R. Co. v. Mississippi, 133
U. S. 587; Provident Institution v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall.
611; Randall v. Brigham, 7 Wall. 523; Gut v. State, 9
Wall. 35; Richmond v. Smith, 15 Wall. 429; Leffingwell
v. Warren, 2 Black, 599.
The Interstate Commerce Act is not involved.
The statute applies only to transportation wholly by
railroad, or partly by railroad and partly by water when
both are used under a common control.
Ferriage disconnected from railroad transportation is
not affected. Goodrich Co. v. Int. Com. Comm., 190 Fed.
'Rep. 943; Int. Corn. Comm. v. Goodrich Co., 224 U. S.
194.
Federal statutes 'concerning enrollment and inspection
of vessel, licensing officers, etc', are not involved. Conway
v. Taylor, 1 Black, 603; Wiggins Ferry Co. v. East St.

Louis; 107 U. S. 365; Mayor &c. v. Starin, 106 N. Y. 1;
Mayor &c. v. Longstreet, 64 How. Pr. 30; Midland Ferry

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Co. v. Wilson, 28 N. J. Eq. 537; Carroll v. Campbell,
108 Missouri, 550, 562-563; Marshall v. Grimes, 41 Mississippi, 27; People v. Babcock, 11 Wend. 586; Chilvers v.

People, 11 Michigan, 43.
These statutes govern all boats navigating public
waters of the United States, whether crossing state lines
or not. To give them the effect for which counsel contend
would deprive the States of all power over ferries--even
across intrastate streams.
The Federal statute of 1866 is not involved.
The history of the statute as well as its express provisions
show that, like the Interstate Commerce Act, this is a
railroad statute. It has been in force forty-six years, and
has never been applied to ferriage disconnected from railroad transportation. Federal Power over Carriers and
Corporations (Macmillan, 1907), pp. 95, 209.
The rates established by the Board of Freeholders are
not invalid as taking the property of plaintiff in error
without compensation.
Argument supporting this proposition will be based
upon the facts shoWn in the record.
The rates have been in existence for several years, and
should not now be disturbed without considering the
results of this practical test. Willcox v. Gas Company,
212 U. S. 19, 44.
Mr. Henry E. Bodman, by leave of the court, filed a
brief as amicus curice. Mr. Alexis C. Angell and Mr.
Herbert E. Boynton were on the brief.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHmTE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The rails of the main line of the West Shore Railroad
Company extend from Buffalo to Albany, New York, and
beyond through the State of New York into New Jersey
to the terminus of the road at Weehawken on the west

N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. v. HUDSON COUNTY. 257
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

bank of the Hudson river. From Weehawken steam
ferries known as the West Shore Railroad ferries are
operated over the river to several terminal points in New
York City for the purpose of carrying railroad passengers
and traffic from Weehawken to New York and from New
York to Weehawken. Although these ferries are known
as West Shore Railroad ferries and are operated as railroad
ferries, their business is not limited to incoming persons
or traffic carried over the lines of the railroad or to persons
or traffic conveyed from New York to Weehawken to
be transported from there over the railroad. Indeed,
from both directions a very large number of persons besides considerable traffic "constantly move to and fro
between the two States, not having used or intending to
use the lines of the West Shore Railroad."
In 1905 the Board of Chosen Freeholders of Hudson
County, New Jersey, adopted two ordinances, one fixing
the rate for foot passengers ferried from New Jersey to
New York and the other for a round trip commencing
on the New Jersey shore, which rates were applicable
to the ferries in question. The New York Central &
Hudson River Railroad, engaged as a lessee in operating
the lines of the West Shore Railroad and its railroad
ferries, commenced this proceeding to prevent the enforcement of the rates fixed by the ordinances. The contention
was that the ordinances were an unwarranted interference with the interstate business of the company and
that the enforcement of the ordinances would constitute
a direct burden on interstate commerce, which could not
be done consistently with the Constitution. The Supreme
Court of New Jersey maintained the contentions of the
railroad company. The Court of Errors and Appeals
reversed the judgment of the Supreme Court. 76 N. J.
Law, 664. The case is now here, the writ of error having
been directed to the Supreme Court, to which the record
was remitted from the Court of Errors and Appeals.
VOL. ccxxvii-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court;

227 U. S.

At the Outset it is to be observed that the contentions
pressed in argument by both parties take a wider range
than the necessities of the case require. We make a very
brief reference to certain, decisions of this court referred
to in argument by both parties in order that they may aid
us to plainly mark the bbundaries of the real issues required. to be decided, thus enabling us to put out of view
irrelevant considerations and confine our attention to
things essential.
Fanningv. Gregoire, 16 How. 524, required a consideration of the right of the legislature of Iowa to authorize
a ferry across the Mississippi river at Dubuque. Without
going into details it suffices to say that the subject was
elaborately considered and the power of the State to
grant the ferry right was-sustained. In Conway v. Taylor's
Executors, 1 Black, 603, the right of the State of Kentucky
to grant franchises for ferrying across the Ohio river,
was considered and the power was upheld, the general
reasoning stated in Fanning v. Gregoire being reiterated
and approved. It is undoubtedly true that in the course
of the reasoning of both the cases just referred to expressions were made use of which give some support to the
view that the power to regulate ferriage, even as to a
stream bounding two States, was purely local, not transferred by the States to Congress, and theref6re not within
the grant of power to Congress to regulate commerce.
Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196,
concerned the validity of a tax imposed by the State of
Pennsylvania on a ferry company operating between
Gloucester, New Jersey, and the city of Philadelphia.
,The tax was resisted on the ground that it was a direct
burden on interstate commerce and therefore void as an
interference with the power of Congress to regulate
commerce. The contention was sustained. The whole
subject of ferriage was elaborately considered, and in
the course of the opinion it was expressly declared, after

N. Y. CENTRAL 'R. R. v. HUDSON COUNTY. 259
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

considering the decisions in Fanning v. Gregoire and
Conway v. Taylor's Executors, that ferriage over a stream
constituting a boundary between two States was within
the grant to Congress to regulate commerce, and therefore
not subject to be directly burdened by a State. It was
also, however, held that in view of the character of such
ferries and the diversity of regulation which might be
required, the right to regulate them came within that
class of subjects which although within the power of Congress the States had the right to deal with until Congress
had manifested its paramount and exclusive authority.
In Covington Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204,
the right of the State of Kentucky to impose tolls for use
of a bridge across the Ohio river, was challenged on the
ground that the State had no authority to fix the tolls,
because to do so was the assertion of a power to regulate
commerce and therefore was an interference with the
exclusive power of Congress on that subject. The tolls
were held to be invalid. The opinion beyond question
reasserted the principle enforced in the Gloucester Ferry
Case. that the movement across a stream, the boundary
between two States, was within the grant of power to
Congress to regulate commerce and therefore, generically
speaking, not subject to the exertion of state authority.
Indeed, in view of the fact that there was no act of Congress dealing with the subject of the tolls which were
under review in the Covington Case, it is true to say that
there are expressions in the opinion in that case which have
been considered, whether rightly or wrongly we do not
feel called upon to say, as qualifying or overruling the
conclusion expressed in the Gloucester Case as to the power
of a State to regulate ferries upon a stream bordering two
States until Congress had manifested its purpose to
exert its authority over the subject.
In St. Clair County v. Interstate Transfer Co., 192 U. S.
454, the question considered was the liability of the

OCTOBER TERM, .1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Transfer Company to penalties imposed by the County of
St. Clair, a municipal corporation of the State of Illinois,
for having failed to obtain a license "for carrying on a
ferry for transferring railroad cars, loaded or unloaded,
over the county of St. Clair in Illinois to the Missouri
shore and from the Missouri shore to the county of St.
Clair." It was decided that there was no liability for the
penalty (a) because the business of transferring freight
cars in the sense disclosed was not ferriage in the proper
meaning of that word, and was the transaction of interstate commerce not in any view subject to state control;
and (b) because the particular ordinance relied upon as the
basis for imposing the penalty was void because of provisions discriminating against interstate commerce which it
contained. The cases of Fanning v. Gregoire, Conway v.
Taylor's Executors, Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania
and Covington Bridge Co. v. Kentucky were referred to.
It was expressly declared in view of the special grounds
upon which the case was decided that it was unnecessary
to consider whether the decision in the Covington Bridge
Case had established tF doctrine that the interstate business of ferrying over navigable rivers bordering two
States was exclusively within the authority of Congress to
regulate, and therefore was not, as declared in the Gloucester Ferry Case, subject to state regulation until Congress
had exerted its authority over the matter.
In the light of this statement we come to state the contentions of the parties. The plaintiff in error insists, not
following the exact order of its argument, a, that the assailed ordinances are repugnant to the commerce clause
because Congress has legislated concerning railroad ferries
and thereby manifested its purpose that there should be
no longer room for the exertion of state power on the
subject; and, b, that if this is not so it is now necessary
to. pass on the question reserved in the St. Clair Case,
and to decide that the ruling in the Covington Bridge Case

N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. v. HUDSON COUNTY.
227 U. S.

261

Opinion of the Court.

affirmatively established that interstate ferriage like that
here in question is so absolutely within the power of
Congress as to exclude even in case of the inaction of
Congress the presumption of a license for the exercise of
state power. On the other hand, the argument for the
defendant in error is this: That the carrying on of the
business of ferriage on navigable rivers constituting a
boundary between States is not interstate commerce, that
the power to regulate it was not surrendered by the States
and consequently no authority was given over the subject
to Congress. This is sought to be shown by a copious review of adjudged cases, and by an analysis of what it is
urged was the clear intendment of the opinion in Gibbons
v. Ogden, especially as elucidated by the opinions in
Fanning v. Gregoire and Conway v. Taylor's Executors.
It is not denied that these theories are directly contrary
to the ruling in the Gloucester Ferry Case, but it is urged
that that case for the first time announced the doctrine of
a national power over interstate ferriage and therefore
practically amounted to making a new constitutional
provision on the subject. Obviously, however, the views
just stated are advanced in a mere academic sense, since
the argument admits that the ruling in the Gloucester
Ferry Case is now conclusive and has settled the signifi-,
cance of the Constitution contrary to the views mentioned.
Thus, at the very outset of the argument, after stating
and elaborating the theory of exclusive state power over
interstate ferriage, it is said: "The decision of the Gloucester Ferry Case, 114 U. S. 196, decided in 1885, estab,
lished Federal jurisdiction to legislate concerning ferriage
over boundary streams, but did not turn what had been
an exclusive state jurisdiction into an exclusive Federal
jurisdiction. State laws on this subject are still valid
until superseded by a Federal statute." Again, after
copiously reiterating the conceptions as to the novelty of
the ruling in the Gloucester Ferry Case and its assumed

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

conflict with what had gone before, it is said: "The result
of the Gloucester Ferry Case, therefore, with the other
cases which, have followed, has probably been to so extend
the Federal authority over interstate ferriage as to bring
the subject within the concurrent jurisdiction of Congress
and of the States. It is a concurrent jurisdiction only,
however, which has been established. In the absence of
Federal legislation the States have all the power that they
have been accustomed to exercise." Thus conceding the
controlling force of the Gloucester Ferry Case and therefore
not questioning the power of Congress which that case
upheld, it is urged that the Covington Bridge Case should
not be now held to have overruled or qualified the Gloucester Ferry Case so as to exclude the States from any right
to regulate interstate ferriage before and until Congress
has manifested its intention to exert its authority by dealing with the subject. Upon the assumption thus stated it
is insisted that the court below rightly upheld the assailed ordinances because there has been no action by
Congress exerting its authority over the subject with
which the ordinances deal and therefore no room for the
contention that it was not within the power of the State
to enact them.
It is therefore apparent that the contentions of the
plaintiff in error primarily invoke only the controlling
effect of the ruling in the Gloucester Ferry Case, and insist
that there has been action by Congress which destroys the
presumption of authority in the State to act. It follows
that the proposition that the Covington Bridge Case overruled the Gloucester Ferry Case is merely subordinate, and
need not be considered unless it becomes necessary in
consequence of an adverse ruling on the primary contention concerning the application of the Gloucester Ferry
Case.
It is equally clear that the contention of the defendant
in error as to the absence of all power in Congress over

N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. t,.
HIUDSON COUNTY.
227 U. S.

263

Opinion of the Court.

interstate ferries is merely academic. From this it necessarily arises that, the only ground relied upon to sustain
the judgment below is the ruling in the Gloucester Ferry
Case, and the further proposition that there has been no
action of Congress over the subject of the ferriage here
involved which authorizes the holding that state power
no longer obtains. As, therefore, the claim on the one
side of an all-embracing aw(i exclusive F('deral power may
be, temporarily at least,, put,out of view and the assertion
on the other of an absolutely exclusive state power may
also be eliminated from consideration because not relied
upon or because it is both demonstrated and admitted
to be without foundation, it follows that to dispose of the
case we are called upon only, following the ruling in the
Gloucester Ferry Case. to determine the single and simple
question whether there has been such action by Congress
as to destroy the presumption as to the existence in the
State of vicarious and revocable authority over the subject. We say simple question because its decision is, we
think, free from difficulty, in \iew of the express provision
of the first section of the Act to Regulate Commerce (act of
February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 't8t. :379)7 subjecting railroads
as therein defined to the ,luth)rity of Coiig'ess, and expressly declaring that "' ] lerin railroad as used in this
wt. shall inchde all bridges and f-irries used or operated
ilconneetion with any railroad, and ilso all the road in use
hv ally corpora in
)ealtitg -rilroa(, whletfher owned or
ol),ate(l uln(ler a contract. agreemelnlt or lease
Tl'linclusion of railr-oad ferries withit, the text is so certiai and so direct a' to require nothing but a consideration
of the text itself. fided, this inevitable conClusion is
not disputed in the arguw-fent for the defendant in error,
but it is insisted that ,s the text only enl)raccs railroad
ferries and the or(lilanees,, were expresIy decided by the
colurt below only t( a[!)pl " to) pers is other t'fin rlihoad
passengers, therefore the action by Congress (lt)e,'; ilo) ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S

tend to the subject embraced by the ordinances. But
as all the business of the ferries between the two States
was interstate commerce within the power of Congress to
control and subject in any event to regulation by the
State as long only as no action was taken by Congress,
the result of the action by Congress leaves the subject,
that is, the interstate commerce carried on by means of
the ferries, free from control by the State. We think the
argument by which it is sought to limit the operation of
the act of Congress to certain elements only of the interstate commerce embraced in the business of ferriage from
State to State is wanting in merit. In the absence of an
express exclusion of some of the elements of interstate
commerce entering into the ferriage, the assertion of power
on the part of Congress must be .treated as being coterminous with the authority over the subject as to which
the purpose of Congress to take control was manifested.
Indeed, this conclusion is inevitable since the assumption
of a purpose on the part of Congress to divide its authority
over the elements of interstate commerce intermingled in
the movement of the regulated interstate ferriage would
be to render the national authority inefficacious by the
confusion and conflict which would result. The conception of the operation at one and the same time of both the
power of Congress and the power of the States over a
matter of interstate commerce is inconceivable, since the
exertion of the greater power necessarily takes possession
of the field, and leaves nothing upon which the lesser power
may operate. To concede that the right of a State to
regulate interstate ferriage exists "only in the absence of
Federal legislation" and at the same time to assert that
the state and Federal power over such subject is concurrent is a contradiction in terms. But this view has been
so often applied as to cause the subject to be no longer
open to controversy. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Hardwick Farmers' Elevator Company, 226 U. S.

ST. LOUIS, IRON MT. & S. RY. v. EDWARDS. 265
227 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

426. Because in the St. Clair Case, supra, it was decided
that a particular character of transportation of interstate
commerce was not ferriage and not within state power,
even where there had been no action by Congress, affords
no reason for in this case extending state authority to a
subject to which, consistently with the action of Congress,
it cannot be held to apply.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of
New Jersey will be reversed and the case remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN & SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. EDWARDS.
ERROR TO-THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 123.

Submitted January 20, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

Action by' Congress on a subject within its domain under the commerce
clause of thc Constitution results in excluding the States from acting
on that subject.
As applied to interstate shipments, the State cannot now impose
penalties for delay in delivery to consignee, is Congress has acted
on that subject by the passage of the Hepbi/rn Act. Chicago, R. I.
& Pac. Ry. Co. v. Hardiwick Elevator Co., 226 U. S. 426.
The so-called Demurrage Statute of 1907 of Arkansas requiring railroad
companies to give notice to consignees of arrival of shipments and
penalizing them- for non-compliance is an unconstitutional interfvrence with interstate commerce so far as interstate shipments are
concerned.
94 Arkansas, 394, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionm.lity under
the commerce-clause of the Constitution of the United

