OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

think the court's ruling was right on the other ground;
that is, the ordinance does not violate the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
According to the bill, the city is given the power through
its mayor and council "to enact such rules and regulations
for the transaction of its business and for the welfare and
proper government thereof," as the mayor and council
may deem best, and the bill shows that the courts of the
State decided that the ordinance was within this delegation of power. It is the commonest exercise of the police
power of a State or city to provide for a system of sewers
and to compel property owners to connect therewith. And
this duty may be enforced by criminal penalties. District
of Columbia v. Brooke, 214 U. S. 138. It may be that an
arbitrary exercise of the power could be restrained, but
it would have to be palpably so to justify a court in interfering with so salutary a power and one so necessary to
the public health. There is certainly nothing in the facts
alleged in the bill to'justify the conclusion that the city
was induced by anything in the enactment of the ordinance
other than the public good or that such was not its effect.
Decree affirmed.

IOKE AND 'ECONOMIDES v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO

THE DISTRICT COURT

FOR THE EASTERN

No. 381.

OF THE

UNITED STATES

DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

Argued January 7, 8,1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

The power given to Congress by the Constitution over interstate comrnerce is direct, without limitation and far reaching. Hipolite g
Co. v. United States, 220 U. S. 45.
Coinnerce munong the States consists of intereourme and traffic between
their citizens and inclu(des the transportation of persons as well as
property.

HOKE v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

While our dual form of government has its perplexities, State and
Nation having different spheres of jurisdiction, we are one people
and the powers reserved to the States and those conferred on the
Nation are adapted to be exercised, whether independently or concurrently, to promote the general welfare, material and moral.
While women are not articles of merchandise, the power of Congress to
regulate their transportation in interstate commerce is the same,
and it may prohibit such transportation if for immoral purposes.
The right to be transported in interstate commerce is not a right to
employ interstate transportation as a facility to do wrong, and
Congress may prohibit such transportation to the extent of the
White Slave Traffic Act of 1910.
Congress may adopt not only the necessary, but the convenient,
means necessary to exercise its power over a subject completely
within its power, and such means may have the quality of police
regulations. Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196.
The White Slave Traffic Act of June 25, 19f0, c. 395, 36 Stat. 825, is a
legal exercise of the power of Congress under the commerce clause
of the Constitution and does not abridge the privileges or immunities
of citizens of the States or interfere with the reserved powers of the
States, especially those in regard to regulation of immoralities of persons within their several jurisdictions.
A variance which is merely verbal as to the name of the railroad over
which transportation was obtained in violation of the White Slave
Traffic Act and which did not prejudice the defense, held in this
case not to be reversible error.
It is for the jury to determine the sufficiency of the evidence tending
to show that defendants induced women to become passengers in
interstate commerce in violation of the Act, and in this case it does
not appear that their judgment was not justified.
One can violate the White Slave Traffic Act through a third party
acting for him.
Evidence of acts of defendants after the end of the journey held in
this case to be admissible to show the action of defendants in inducing the transportation of women in interstate commerce in violation
of the White Slave Traffic Act.
There was no error in the various instructions of the court in this case.
187 Fed. Rep. 992, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
various provisions of the Federal Constitution of the adt of
.June 25, 1910, prohibiting transportation in interstate and

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

227 U. S.

foreign commerce of women and girls for immoral purposes,
known as the White Slave Act, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. C. W. Howth, with whom Mr. Hal W. Greer,
Mr. T. H. Bowers and Mr. C. C. Luzenberg were on the
brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The act is contrary to and contravenes Art. IV, § 2, of
the Constitution in this: That though they are generally
and justly deemed immoral, yet prostitutes, both male
and female, are citizens of their respective States, with
all the "privileges and immunities" possessed by any
other citizen; and one of their "privileges" is to travel
interstate; and so long as this privilege exists as a lawful
right, it is the "privilege" and lawful right of any other
citizen to aid and assist, persuade and entice, them to take
the journey, regardless of their motive or purpose and
regardless of the motive and purpose of the one rendering
the aid, as to what they shall do or intend to do at the
end of their journey. Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168;
United States v. Harris, 106 U. S. 629.
The right to travel interstate is a fundamental privilege
and immunity of citizenship, regardless of moral or immoral intent of the traveler at, the end of the journey.
The White Slave Act does not in itself attempt to define
or make a crime of prostitution.
The act does not forbid the carriage interstate of prostitutes, even though they be known as such.
The act does not prohibit the carriage interstate of. a
woman or girl who intends to ply the avocation of prostitution at the end of her journey, if she furnishes her own
money or means, of transportation. This is because Congress realized that it did not have power to include that,
either because it would abrogate Art. IV, § 2, or the reserved powers .of the States individually.
Congress has no power to define and punish as a crime
the acts of one who aids another to do a Jawful thing.

ttOKE ,,.
227 U. S.

UNITED STATES.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

As to Economides it is presumed that the verdict of the
jury will be held conclusive on the facts, and they are therefore stated as .established.
Defendants although engaged in a very disreputable,
but lawful, business, had the privilege and immunity as
a citizen of a State, to argue with, persuade, and prevail,
upon three other citizens of that State to go to a point in
another State, he in no other respect rendering any actual
aid or assistance.
In the absence of an allegation in the indictment that
these women were being carried under duress, or against
their wills, or in some other involuntary form, or by some
fraudulent device were induced to go, they had these
rights:
They could have stopped off at any place in Louisiana
where the train stopped and have thus brukenthe interstate feature of the indictment.
Even after reaching Beaumont and before going to the
place of prostitution they could have purchased transportation and returned to Louisiana, or have gone to
some other place than Beaumont.
After reaching their destination at Beaumont and
before going into the house of prostitution, they could
have hired out for domestic service, or changed their
occupation into some other than prostitution.
In either of these three events, the criminality of the
acts charged in the indictment would have been completely
destroyed.
The act is void in that it conflicts with the reserved
police powers of the States individually to regulate or
prohibit prostitution or any other immoralities, of their
citizens. Amendments IX and X of the Constitution;
Keller v. United States, 213 U. S. 143; .Fairbankv. United
States, 181 U. S. 283; Barron v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243.
The Congress of these United States, as a legislative
body, is one of limited powers prescribed by the Consti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

227 U. S.

tution, and can pass no valid enactment unless it comes
strictly within some" one or more of the provisions conferring the power; and all powers not so expressly granted
to Congress, by the Constitution, were reserved to the
States individually.
The act is unconstitutional in that it does not come
within the terms of Art. I, § 8, subd. 2, relating to the
power to regulate commerce among the States, or any
other grant of power in this: that while the carrying of
passengers interstate comes within the power to regulate.
commerce, the motive or intent of the passenger either
before beginning the journey, or during, or after completing it, is not a matter of interstate commerce. Keller
v. United States, 213 U. S. 143; Lottery Case, 188 U. S.
32; The Popper Case, 98 Fed. Rep. 423; Fairbank v.
United States, 181 U. S. 283.
Prostitution is not a crime against the Federal Government as such except in Territories exclusively under Congressional control, but of the States individually.
In every offense save this one a conviction for crime
must depend upon the intent to commit the crime; but
here the intention is the crime where no real crime may
in fact be committed.
In all other cases the shipment of the forbidden commodity interstate, as well as its receipt, constitutes the
crime; but here though the aid of the passenger may be
lawful, yet if the person giving it intends the recipient
shall do an immoral thing at the end of her journey,
whether she does it or not, makes the person rendering the
aid a felon.
Congress has not the constitutional power to make
prostitution a crime within the limits of any State.
The power to regulate interstate commerce does not
confer upon Congress the power to regulate the morality
or any other immorality (a phrase broad enough to reach
drinking, gambling, exposure of person, fighting, lyinrg,

HOKE v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

profanity-in fact any frailty which the flesh is heir to) of
citizens individually.
If so there is no such thing reserved to the States per se
as police powers, for any other immorality is broad enough
to cover every crime defined in the criminal codes and
codes of criminal procedure in every State in the Union.
Where both the right to interstate carriage and the
fact of carriage are lawful within themselves, there is
nothing of "commerce between the States" which Congress can prohibit.
The defendants should have been acquitted on the
merits.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for the United
States:

1

Section 8 of the act provides that it shall be known and
referred to as the "White Slave Traffic Act," and the
several provisions of the act show that its underlying
purpose is the suppression of traffic in women and girls
for immoral purposes so far as such traffic comes within
the jurisdiction of Congress over interstate and foreign
commerce. This purpose was also plainly stated by the
committees of Congress in recommending the passage of
the bill (H. Rept., No. 47, 61st Cong., 2d Sess.; S. Rept.,
No. 886, 61st Cong., 2d Sess.).
That the act is intended as a regulation of the transportation of persons as passengers appears from § 5,
which provides that violations of §§ 2, 3 and 4 may be
prosecuted in any district from, through or into which any
such woman or girl may have been carried or transported
as a passenger.
I The brief of the Government is entitled not only in No. 381, but
also in the other Whlite Slave Trafflic Cases argued simultaneously therevith, to wit, No. 588, Athanasaw v. United States, post, p. 326; No. 603,
Bei.net4 v.- United States, post, p. 333; and No. 602, Harris v. United
States, post, p. 340.

OCTOBER, TERM, 1912.
Argument for the United States.

227 U. S.

The act reaches procurers and panderers and those
engaged in coioducting immoral houses, shows, etc., who,
treating women and girls as subjects of barter and gain,
transport or caUSe theih to be transported, or facilitate
their transportation, from one ;State to another, or to a
foreign country, for immoral purposes. It does not penalize either the Voluntary going or coming of women for
the purpose of prostitution, nor the act of one who, for
charitable or philanthropic reasons, extends aid to an
unfortunate femiale by purchasing transportation for her.
Nor would a conmon carrier or its agents be guilty of
violating the act simply by transporting a woman or girl
who may intend to engage in prostitution.
The act is constitutional as a regulation of interstate
and foreign commerce.
Transportation and transit of persons is commerce,
persons being both the subject and the means of commercial intercourse.
The statement of Mr. Justice Barbour, in New York v.
Miln, 11 Pet. 102, 136, that persons "are not the subject
of commerce," has never received the sanction of the
court, but has been expressly refuted. Passenger Cases,
7 How. 282, 420; Henderson v. New York, 92 U. S. 259;
Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691; Gloucester Ferry Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196; Pickard v. Pullman Car Co.,
117 U. S. 34; McCall v. California,136 U. S. 104; Covington
Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204.
We are corlcerned here only with the matter of transportation, which, so far as interstate or foreign, is clearly
traffic and subject to the regulative power of Congress;
although the decisions of this court are also to the effect
that transit of persons, interstate or foreign, is also within
the jurisdiction of Congress.
The regulative power of Congress extends to the absolute prohibition of the transportation and transit in interstate or foreign commerce of certain subjects of commerce.

HOKE v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

See The Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321, establishing the
principle that it is equally within the power of Congress,
in regulating interstate commerce, to protect the public
morals as it is to protect the public health or the economic
welfare of the people, and it is upon this principle that
the White Slave Traffic Act rests.
Congress has also enacted quarantine legislation for
the purpose of preventing persons from introducing contagious diseases into the United States from foreign countries or spreading the same from State to State, and its
authority to do so has been repeatedly recognized by this
court. Morgan v. Louisiana, 118 U. S. 455, 464; Louisiana
v. Texas, 176 U. S. 1, 21; Compagnie Francaise, &c., v.
Board of Health, 186 U. S. 380, 387, 389.
Necessarily, such legislation can only rest upon the
theory that Congress can regulate the transportation and
transit of persons in interstate or foreign commerce, to
the extent of prohibition, if the public welfare demands
it.
The transportation of women and girls for the purpose
of prostitution or debauchery or other immoral purpose
is one of the kinds of interstate or foreign commerce that
may be suppressed by Congress.
The act is not an encroachment upon the police powers
of the States. It merely aids the States in the enforcement of their own laws on the subject of immorality.
While the States alone can regulate the practice of
prostitution therein, Keller v. United States, 213 U. S. 138,
so far as it is conducted through the channels of interstate
or foreign commerce, it becomes a matter of congressional
regulation.
Even if the States may, under their police powers,
prohibit prostitutes or other immoral persons from coming
or being transported into their limits, that fact does not
remove the subject from congressional control. See, as to
quarantine laws, Compagnie Francaisev. Board of Health,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

186 U. S. 387, 389; Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137;
Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 358.
The act is not an unwarranted invasion of personal
liberty. Addyston Pipe Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 229;
Lottery Case, supra; Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 151.
Having the power to prohibit the transportation of
women and girls in interstate and foreign commerce for
immoral purposes, and having exercised such power,
Congress may make the prohibition effectual by punishing
any person who knowingly induces, solicits, or facilitates
such illegal transportation.
. As to the power of Congress effectively to regulate interstate commerce by reaching unlawful acts in their very
inception, see Hipolite Egg Co. v. United States, 220 U. S.
45.
So, because the solicitation of interstate commerce is a
matter of Federal regulation exclusively, the State cannot
impose a license tax thereon. Robbins v. Shelby Taxing
District, 120 U. S. 489; Asher v. Texas, 128 U. S. 129;
McCall v. California, 136 U. S. 104.
The provision of the act with reference to persons purchasing tickets for women and girls for the purpose of
being transported in interstate or foreign commerce for
immoral purposes, and those relating to the persuasion,
inducement, enticement, or coercion of women and girls
to go and be transported in such commerce, are similar to
the provisions in the immigration laws making it, an
offense to assist, encourage, or solicit the importation or
migration of alien contract laborers, upheld in United
States v. Craig, 28 Fed. Rep. 795.
MR. JUSTICE MCKtNNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Error to review a judgment of conviction under the
act of Congress of June 25, 1910, entitled "An Act to

HOKE v. UNITED STATES.
227-U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

further regulate interstate and foreign commerce by prohibiting the transportation therein for immoral purposes
of women and girls, and for other purposes." 36 Stat. 825,
c. 395. It is commonly known as the White Slave Act.
The constitutionality of the act was assailed by demurrer, and as its sufficiency otherwise was not questioned
a brief summary of its allegations is all that is necessary.
The charge against Effie Hoke is that she "did, on the
fourteenth day of November, A. D. 1910, in the City of
New Orleans and State of Louisiana, unlawfully, feloniously and knowingly persuade, induce and entice one
Annette Baden, alias Annette Hays, a woman, to go from
New Orleans, a city in the State of Louisiana, to Beaumont, a city in the State of Texas, in interstate commerce
for the purpose of prostitution," etc.
The charge against Basile Economides io that he"did
unlawfully, feloniously and knowingly aid and assist
the said Effie Hoke to persuade, induce and entice the
.
to go in interstate comsaid Annette Baden .
for the purpose of prostitution," with the
.
merce

intent and purpose that the said woman "should engage
in the practice of prostitution in the said city of Beaumont, Texas."
The second and third counts make the same ci.,x-',
against the defendants as to another woman, the one
named in the third count being under eighteen years.
The demurrers were overruled and after trial the defendants were convicted and sentenced, each to two years
imprisonment on each count. 187 Fed, Rep. 992.
The indictment was drawn under §§ 2, 3 and 4 of the
act, which sections are as follows:
"SEc. 2.

That any person who shall knowingly trans-

port or cause to be transported, or aid or assist in obtaining transportation for, or in transporting, in interstate or
foreign, dommerce, or in any Territory or in the District
of Columbia, any woman or girl for the purpose of prosti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

tution or debauchery, or for any other immoral purpose,
or with the intent and purpose to induce, entice, or compel
such woman or girl to become a prostitute or to give herself
up to debauchery, or to engage in any other immoral
practice; or who shall knowingly procure or obtain, or
cause to be procured or obtained, or aid or assist in procuring or obtaining, any ticket or tickets, or any form of
transportation or evidence of the right thereto, to be used
by any woman or girl in interstate or foreign commerce,
or in any Territory or the District of Columbia, in going
to any place for the purpose of prostitution or debauchery,
or for any other immoral purpose, or with the intent or
purpose on the part of such person to induce, entice, or
compel her to give herself up to the practice of prostitution, or to give herself up to debauchery, or any other
immoral practice, whereby such woman or girl shall be
transported in interstate or foreign commerce, or in any
Territory or the District of Columbia, shall be deemed
guilty of a felony, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars, or
by imprisonment of not more than five years, or by both
such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court."
Section 3 is directed against the persuasion, inducement
and enticement of any woman or girl to go from one place
to another in interstate or foreign commerce, whether
with or without her consent, to engage in the practices
and for the purposes stated in the first section, and. provides that "any one who shall thereby knowingly cause or
aid or assist in causing such woman or girl to go or to be
carried or transported as a passenger upon the line or
route of any common carrier or carriers in interstate or
foreign commerce, or any Territory or the District of
Columbia," shall be punished as prescribed in the first
section.
Section 4 makes criminal the pursuasion, inducement
and enticement of a woman or girl under the age of eigb t-

HOKE v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

een years from any State or Territory or the District of
Columbia to any other State or Territory or the District
of Columbia to engage in the immoral practices enumerated. The person guilty thereof and who shall in furtherance thereof knowingly induce or cause such woman or
girl to be carried or transported as a passenger in interstate
commerce shall be deemed guilty of a felony and on conviction the offender's punishment may be a fine of ten
thousand dollars or imprisonment for ten years, or by both
fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.
The grounds of attack upon the constitutionality of the
statute are expressed by counsel as follows:
"1. Because it is contrary to and contravenes Art. IV,
§ 2, of the Constitution of the United States, which reads:
'The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the
privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States.'
"2. Because it is contrary to and contravenes the following two amendments to the Constitution:
"Art. IX. The enumeration in the Constitution of
certain rights shall not be construed to deny or disparage
others retained by the people.
"Art. X. The powers not delegated to the United
States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the
States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the
people.
"3. Because that clause of the Constitution which reserves to Congress the power (Art. I, See. 8, Subdiv. 2)
'To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among
the several States,' etc., is not broad enough to include
the power to regulate prostitution or any other immorality
of citizens of the several States as a condition precedent
(or subsequent) to their right to travel interstate or to aid
or assist another to so travel.
"4. Because the right and power to regulate and control
prostitution, or any other immoralities of citizens, comes
within the reserved police power of the several States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

and under the Constitution Congress cannot interfere
therewith, either directly or indirectly, under the grant
of power 'to regulate commerce between the States.'"
We shall discuss at length but one of these grounds; the
others will be referred to incidentally. The power of
Congress under the commerce clause of the Constitution
is the ultimate determining question. If the statute be a
valid exercise of that power, how it may affect persons or
States is not material to be considered. It is the supreme
law of the land and persons and States are subject to it.
Congress is given power "to regulate commerce with
foreign nations and among the several States."
The
power is direct; there is no word of limitation in it, and
its broad and universal scope has been so often declared
as to make repetition unnecessary. And, besides, it has
had so much illustration by cases that it would seem as
if there could be no instance of its exercise that does not
find an admitted example in some one of them. Experience, however, is the other way, and in almost every in-.
stance of the exercise of the power differences are asserted
from previous exercises of it and made a ground of attack.
The present case is an example..
Commerce among the States, we have said, consists of
•-intercourse and traffic between their citizens, and includes
the transportation of persons and property. There may
be, therefore, a movement of persons as well as of property; that is, a person may move or be moved in interstate
commerce. And the act under consideration was drawn
in view of that possibility.. What the act condemns is
transportation obtained or aided or transportation induced
in interstate Commerce for the immoral purposes mentioned. But an objection is made and urged with earnestness. It is said that it is the right and privilege of a person
to move between States and that such being the right,
another cannot be. made guilty of the crime of inducing
or assisting or aiding in the exercise of it and "that the

HOKE v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

motive or intention of the passenger, either before beginning the journey, or during or after completing it, is
not a matter of interstate commerce." The contentions
confound things important to be distinguished. It urges
a right exercised in morality to sustain a right to be exercised in immorality. It is the same right which attacked
the law of Congress which prohibits the carrying of obscene literature and articles designed for indecent and
immoral use from one State to another. Act of February 8,
1897, 29 Stat. 512, c. 172. United States v. Popper, 98
Fed. Rep. 423. It is the same right which was excluded
as an element as affecting the constitutionality of the
act for the suppression of lottery traffic through national
and interstate commerce. Lottery Case, 188 U. S.. 321,
357. It is the right given for beneficial exercise which is
attempted to be perverted to and justify baneful exercise
as in the instances stated and which finds further illustration in Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S.137. This constitutes
the supreme fallacy of plaintiffs' error. It pervades and
vitiates their contentions.
Plaintiffs in error admit that the States may control
the immoralities of its citizens. Indeed, this is their chief
insistence, and they especially condemn the act under
review as a subterfuge and an attempt to interfere with
the police power of the States to regulate the morals of
their citizens and assert that it is in consequence an invasion of the reserved powers of the States. There is unquestionably a control in the States over the morals of
their citizens, and, it may be admitted, it extends to making prostitution a crime. Itis a control, however, which
can be exercised only within the jurisdiction of the States,
but there is a domain which the States cannot reach and
over which Congress alone has power; and if such power
be exerted to control what the States cannot it is an argument for-not against-its legality. Its exertion does not
encroach upon the jurisdiction of the- States. We have
VOL. ccxxvii-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

cited examples; others may be adduced. The Pure Food
and bDrugs Act (June 30, 1906, 34 Stat. 768, a. 3915) is a
conspicuous instance. In all of the instances a clash of
national legislation with the power of the States was
urged, and in all rejected.
Our dual form of government has its perplexities, State
and Nation having different spheres of jurisdiction, as we
have said, but it must be kept in mind that we are one
people; and the powers reserved to the States and those
conferred on the Nation are adapted to be exercised,
-whether independently or concurrently, tW promote the
general welfare, material and moral. This is the effect
of the decisions, and surely if the facility of interstate
transportation can be taken away from the demoralization
of lotteries, the debasement of obscene literature, the
contagion of diseased cattle or persons, the impurity of
food and drugs, the like facility can be taken away from
the systematic enticement, to and the enslavement in
prostitution and debauchery of women, and, more insistently, of girls.
This is the aim of the law expressed in broad generalization; and motives are made of determining consequence.
Motives executed by actions may make it the concern
of Government to exert its powers. Right purpose and
fair trading need no restrictive regulation, but let them be
transgressed and penalties and prohibitions must be applied. WL may illustrate again by the Pire Food and
Drugs Act. Let an article be debased by adulteration,
let it be misrepresented by false branding, and Congress
may exercise its prohibitive power. It may be that Congress could not prohibit the manufacture of the article
in a State. It may be that Congress could not prohibit
in all of its conditions its sale within a State. But Congress may prohibit its transportation between the States,
and by that means defeat the motive and evils of its
manufacture. How far-reaching are the power and the

HOKE v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

means which may be used to secure its complete exercise we have expressed in Hipolite Egg Co. v. United
States, 220 U. S. 45. There, in emphasis of the purpose of
the law, we denominated adulterated articles as "outlaws
of commerce" and said that the confiscation of them
enjoined by the law was appropriate to the right to bar
them from interstate transportation and completed the
purpose of the law by not merely preventing their physical
movement but preventing trade in them between the
States. It was urged in that case as it is urged here
that the law was an invasion of the power of the
States.
Of course it will be said that women are not articles of
merchandise, but this does not affect the analogy of the
cases; the substance of the congressional power is the
same, only the manner of its exercise must be accommodated to the difference in its objects. It is misleading to
say that men and women have rights. Their rights cannot
fortify or sanction their wrongs; and if they employ interstate transportation as a facility of their wrongs, it may
be forbidden to them to the extent of the. act of June 25,
1910, and we need go no farther in the present case.
The principle established by the cases is the simple one,
when rid of confusing and distracting considerations, that
Congress has power over transportation "among the
several States"; that, the power is complete in itself, and
that Congress, as an incident to it, may adopt not only
means necessary but convenient to its exercise, and the
means may have the quality of police regulations. Gloucester Ferry Co, v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196, 215; Cooley,
Constitutional Limitations, 7th ed. 856. We have no
hesitation, therefore, in pronouncing the act of June 25,
1910, a legal exercise of the power of Congress.
There are assignments of error based upon rulings on
the admission and rejection of evidence and upon the
instructions to the jury and the refusing of instructions.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

The asserted errors are set forth in twenty-five bills of
exceptions and the spccial assignment of errors in this
court occupy twenty-eight pages of the record, and present
the constitutional objections to the law in all the aspects
that counsels' ingenuity can devise. A like ingenuity has
been exercised to represent the many ways in which the
conduct of the accused can be viewed and shown to be
inconsistent with a guilty purpose. To discuss them all is
unnecessary. We shall pass more or less rapidly over
those we consider to be worthy of attention.
1. It is contended that there is variance between the
indictment and the proof in that the indictment charges
that the women were transported over the Texas & New
Orleans Railroad Company's road and that the Government failed to prove that such road was a line extending
from New Orleans to Beaumont, Texas, these places
marking the beginning and end of the transportation of
the women. Further, that the proof showed that their
tickets were purchased over the Southern Pacific Road.
The indictment alleges that the Texas & New Orleans
Railroad was a part of the Southern Pacific System, and
was commonly known as the "Sunset Route," and there
was through transportation. The variance is not much
more than verbal, and that it prejudiced their defense in
any way is not shown. If it is error at all it does not
appear to have caused even embarrassment to the defense.
But was it error? Sea Westmoreland v. United States, 155
U. S. 545, 549. Also § 1025, R. S.
2. The evidence does not show that the defendants or
either of them induced, etc., the women to become passengers in interstate commerce. The particulars are recited wherein it is contended that the evidence is deficient.
It is not necessary to review them. It was for the jury to
consider and determine the sufficiency of the evidence,
and we c annot say they were not justified by it in the
judgment they pronounced.

HOKE v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

3. It is contended that Florence Baden persuaded her
sister Gertrude to go to Beaumont and an instruction of
the court is attacked on the ground that it declared the
charge of the indictment was satisfied against the defendants if Florence acted for them. There was no error in
the instruction under the circumstances shown by the
record.
4. Error is assigned on the refusal of the court to give
certain instructions requested by defendants. To consider them in detail would require a lengthy review of the
evidence, for they present arguments on certain phases of
it as to the degree of persuasion used or its sufficiency to
induce or entice the women. There was no error in refusing the instructions.
5. The court permitted the women to testify as to the
acts of Effie Hoke at her house at Beaumont restraining
the liberty of the women and coercing their stay with her.
Such testimony was relevant. The acts illustrated and
constituted a completion of what was done at New Orleans. The- were part of the same scheme and made clear
its purpose.
There were other instructions asked by which the jury
was charged that they could not convict Effie Hoke for
the character of the house she kept or Economides for the
business he conducted. The charge of the court sufficiently excluded both views. It explained the act of
Congress and the offenses it condemned and directed the
attention of the "jury to them.

6. Defendants complain that they were not permitted
to show that the women named in the indictment were
public prostitutes in New Orleans. Such proof they contend was relevant upon the charge of persuasion or enticement. This may be admitted, but there was sufficient
evidence, as the court said, of the fact of the immorality
of their lives and explicitly ruled that they could be shown
to be public prostitutes. The court, bewever, excluded

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

227 U. S.

certain details sought to be proved. Under. the circumstances there was no error in the ruling.
In conclusion we say, after consideration of all errors
assigned, that there was no ruling made which was prejudicial to defendants.
Judgmeni' affirmed.

ATHANASAW AND SAMPSON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 588. Argued January 7, 8, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.
Hoke v. United States, ante, p. 308, followed to effect that the White
Slave Traffic Act of June 25, 1910, isconstitutional.
The White Slave Traffic Act of 1910 against inducing women and girls
to enter upon a life of prostitution or debauchery cov(,rs acts which
might ultimately lead to that phase of debauchery which consists in
sexual-actions; and in this case held that there was no error in refusing to charge that the gist of the offense is the intcntion of the person
when the transportation is procured, or that the word "debauchery"'
as used in the statute means sexual intercourse or that the act does
not extend to any vice or immorality other than that applicable to
sexual actions.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality and construction of the White Slave Act and validity of an indictment and conviction thereunder, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. W. A. Carter and John P. Wall filed a brief for
plaintiffs in error:
The White Slave Act is unconstitutional, because it
violates §2, Art. IV, of the Constitution of the United

