OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

ring to Fall v. Eastin, 215 U. S. 1, disposed of the matter
by noticing that no relief was given on the cross complaint
and that specific performance was denied on other grounds.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. WINSLOW.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTAICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 620. Argued January 10, 1913.-Decided February 3, 1913.
On appeals under the Criminal Appeals Act of 1907 this court has no
jurisdiction to review the interpretation of the indictment by the
lower court, United States v. Patten, 226 U. S.525, and if that court
has construed the count as alleging a combination of a particular
date to be in violation of the Sherman Law, without regard to subsequent acts, this court cannot pass upon the validity of those acts.
A combination for greater efficiency does not necessarily violate the
Sherman Anti-trust Act.
Where each of several groups are carrying on a legal business of making
patented machines Which do not compete with each other, although
the machines of all the groups are used by manufacturers of the
same article, such as shoes, a combination of the several groups does
not violate 'theSherman Anti-trust Act.
Exclusion of competitors from making the patented article is of the very
essence of the right conferred by the patent.
Where the share in interstate commerce does not appear in the record,
and the machines in question are not alleged to be types of all the
machines used in manufacturing the article for which they are made,
the Government cannot claim that a specified proportion of the business was put into a single hand.
The disintegration aimed at by the Sherman Anti-trust Act does not
extend to reducing all manufacture to isolated units of the lowest
degree.
The Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, c.2564, 34 Stat. 1246, is a
special provision and, as it is not mentioned in the repealing section
of the Judicial Code of 1911 and is not superseded by any other
regulation of the matter, it was not repealed by the Judicial Code.
United States, Petitioner, 226 U. S.420.
The'District Court rightly held that the counts under review of the indictment against various persons for combining their businesses of

UNITED STATES v. WINSLOW.
227 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

manufacturing patented machines for making different parts of shoes,
and not competing with each other, did not constitute an offense un-'
der the Sherman Anti-trust Act.
195 Fed. Rep. 578, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Sherman Anti-trust Act, and determining whether the combination charged in an indictment thereunder of various
manufacturers of patented shoe machinery constituted a
violation thereof, are stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General for the United States:
This case presents fthe question whether it is legal to
gather together into one corporation about 80 per cent. of
all the interstate trade in some particular line of activity
when it is done gradually by legitimate methods and
without any unfair competition such as characterized the
Tobacco and Standard Oil cases. If that is legal, the sooner
the business world tifiderstands it the better.
The indictment alleged that -three separAte groups of
individuals (each 0ontrolling a different group of machines
essential to the manufacture of shoes), combined together
whereby their separate businesses, were combined into one
under the joint management of.these individuals; that each
of the separate groups controls about 70 or 80 per cent of
the interstate trade in the particular kind of machines
manufactured by it; and that by the combination there
were placed into one hand from 70 to 80 per cent of all the
business in those kinds of shoe machinery manufactured
by the defendants.
The constitutionality ard sufficiency of the criminal
provisions of the Sherman Anti-trust Act are settled.
United States v.. Kissel, 218 U.-S. 601; Northern Securities
Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197, 40t; Standard Oil Co.
v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, 69; United States v. Swift,
188 Fed. Rep. 92.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for the United States.

227 U. S.

Individuals are subject to indictment for acts done
under the guise of A corporation where the individuals
personally so dominate and control the corporation as to
immediately direct its action. United States v. Swift, 188
Fed. Rep. 92, 98; United States v. McAndrews & Forbes
Co., 149 Fed. Rep. 823; Crall v. Commonwealth, 103 Virginia, 855, 859, 860;Peoplev. Clark, 8 N. Y. Crim. Rep. 179,
194, 195, 212; People v. White Lead Works, 82 Michigan,
471, 479; People v. Duke, 44 N. Y. Supp. 336,337-339; State
v. Great Works &c. Co., 20 Maine, 41; United States v. Durland, 6,5 Fed. Rep. 408, 415; S. C., 161 U. S. 306; Balliet v.
United States, 129 Fed. Rep. 689; Fitzsimmons v. United
States, 156 Fed. Rep. 477,.481; Foster v. United States, 178
Fed. Rep. 165, 173, 176-178; La Societe Anonyme &c. v.
PanhardMotor Co. (19015, 2 Ch. 513, 516-517.
Prior to February 7, 1899, competition with reference
to the different kinds of shoe machinery was so distributed
between the different groups of defendant!i' and the Independents that a shoe manufacturer had 24 different
choices for obtaining shoe machinery.
By the organization of the United Shoe Machinery
Company and the coalescence into one of the three groups
of businesses formerly carried on separately by the defendants, the variety of choice open to a shoe manufacturer
for obtaining. the necessary shoe machinery was reduced
from 24 ways to 16 ways.
The defendants then adopted what is known as the
"tying" clause lease, which provided that any shoe manufacturer using any one class of machines furnished by the
defendants should use for all his other machines only
those furnished by the defendants; and that if he used any
machine made by an Independent, the defendants would
forfeit his lease and remove his machines. This form of
lease immediately reduced from 16 to 2 the different ways
by which a manufacturer could equip his factory, so that
he had to get all his machinery from the defendats or
get it all froin the IndependentS.

UNITED STATES v. WINSLOW.
227 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

The effect of the combination was to place from'70 to
80 per cent. of all the shoe machinery business (in so far
as it related to those essential machines known as the
lasting, welt-sewing, heeling and metallic fastening machines) into one hand. This combination into one group
of four non-competitive businesses (which, taken together,
constitute one complete business) curtailed the customer's
liberty of action by compelling him to deal with one and
the same group as to all four classes of machinery, whereas
formerly he could deal with four separate groups. The
question presented, then, is whether the combination into
(ne group of 75 per cent. of the whole business of the
country ina particular line is in such restraint of trade as
to violate the Sherman law, it being conceded that the
combination was not attended by any methods of unfair
competition or illegitimate trade practices. Without attempting to determine- exactly at what percentage of trade
control a combination passes into the region of illegal
restraint, the Government insists that when a combination acquires between 70 and 80 per cent. of the total trade
in a particular business, the line between legal and illegal
combinations has been passed; and that this is so even
though the combination is made without resorting to any
wrongful methods to coerce anyone to come into the combination. St,(fl v. United States, 196 U. S. 375; Standard
Sanitary Mifg. Co. v. UnitedStates, 226 U. S.,20; Standard
Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1; United States v.
American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106; United States v.
Union Pacific R. t. Co., 226 U. S. 61; United States v.
The Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324.
Trhe adoption by the United Shoe Machinery Company of the "tying" clause lease wMreby a cotstonler was
compelled to take all his machines from the defendants or
all from the Independents was- a direct restraint upon
competition and trade (1)of the defendants by ,limiting
their trade to those who would agree to use only the (e-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for the United States.

227 U. 8.

fendants' machines; (2) of the customers by depriving
them of the right to use some machines unless they would
also use others, (3) of the Independents by preventing
them from selling their machines to their former customers.
Montague v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38; United States v. St. Louis
Terminal, 224 U. S. 383; Standard SanitaryV-Mfg. Co. v.
United States, 226 U. S. 20; United States v. Union Pacific
R. R. Co., 226 U. S. 61; United States v. The Reading Co.,
226 U. S. 324.
The patent laws do not authorize the "tying" clause
leases.
The precise point decided in Henry v. Dick Co., 224
U. S. 1, was that a patentee might impose a restriction
that his machine should be used only in connection with
certain supplies which in point of fact bore so direct a relation to the invention that it could not be operated without their use in physical connection. with the patented
machine.
The doctrine of Henry v. Dick Co. should not be extended to permit a license restriction beyond the actual
use of supplies in connection with the necessary physical
operation of the patented machine. Standard Sanitary
Mfg. Co. v. United States, 226 U..S. 20.
But even if the doctrine of Henry v. Dick Co. is extended
to the extreme limit of permitting any kind of restriction
upon the use of a patented machine, yet when such restrictions are a part of one general scheme of combination
the patent laws no longer authorize such restrictions.
The rights given by the patent laws do not give universal
license against the positive prohibitions of the Shernman
law, which is a limitation on alLrights that might othcrwi.,c
be. pushed to evil consequences. Standard Sanitary Mlif.
Co. v. United States, 226 U. S. 20; United States v. The
Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324.
The Criminal Appeals Act, 34 Stat. 1246, was not repealed by the adoption of the Judicial Code.

UNITED STATES v. WINSLOW.
227 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

The defendant's right of appeal to the Supreme
Court was given in the fifth and sixth sections of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act which, in the proposed revision
of the laws of the United States, was placed in Chapter
Ten on the "Supreme Court," in the title called "The
Judiciary." The right of the United States to appeal to the
Supreme Court was contained in the Criminal Appeals
Act, which, in the same proposed revision was placed in
Chapter Eighteen on "Procedure on Error and Appeal."
Congress, in passing the Judicial Code, did not attempt to cover the whole body of the revision submitted
to it, but only adopted the first 14 chapters of the title
"The Judiciary"; so that while it incorporated info the
Judicial Code Chapter Ten on the "Supreme Court"
giving the defendant a right to appeal, it did not attempt
to cover any of the field embraced in the later chapters
of the revision. Therefore, those subjects, inter alia,
which were dealt with in proposed Chapter 18 were never
even considered by Congress and therefore remained controlled by the former laws governing them-one of which
was the Criminal Appeals Act. (Cf. Committee Report
of 1907 of "Commission to Codify and Revise the Laws
of the United States" and the Joint Committee.of Congress' Revision of 1910. See Title XVI, "The Judiciary,"
Chapters 10 and 18.)
Mr. Frederick P. Fish and Mr. Charles F. Choate, Jr.,
with whom Mr. Malcolm Donald and Mr. William A.
Sargent were on the brief, for defendants in error:
Only a single question is presented by the case.
The lease question is not before this court, as hereinafter shown.
The fact that the machines manufactured by the United
Shoe Machinery Company are protected by letter;-paten t,
was not considered by the District Court in its construction of the Sherman Act, and is not open in this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

227 U. S.

The facts alleged in the first and second counts are not
brought out or are erroneously stated by the United States.
The second count is ahlost identical, word for, word,
with the first count, except as to the allegation in regard to interstate commerce, and changing the charge of
combination of defendants' own trade into one of con-spiracy to restrain the trade of shoe manufacturers in
shoc machinery.
On this writ of error, the question is whether the Distriet Court erred in the construction of the Anti-trust Act
in sustaining the demurrers to counts one and two and
so far as that act is construed by the District Court in its
opinion relating to those two counts.
For construction of the Criminal Appeals Act as applied
to the question before this court, see United States v.
Bitty, 208 U. S. 393; United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370;
United States v. Ma~on, 213 U. S. 115; United States v.
Mlescall, 215 U. S. 26; United States v. Stevenson, 215 U. S.
190; United States v. Kissel, 218 U. S. 601; United States
v. Barber, 219 U. S.72; United States v. Miller, 223 U. S.
599.
The District Court decided the two counts now before
this court were bad for duplicity in pleading, that is to
say, on a question of general law riot involving the ennstruetion of the Sherman Act, and that cannot be re.vi'wed
here. United States v. Keilel, 211 U. S. 370; United Stlc.
v. Mason, 213 U. S. 115; United States v. Mescall, 215 U. S.
26; United States v. Stevenson, 215 U. S.190.
The District C\)urt also held the two counts bad on a
second ground, namely, that the original organization of
the company was neither a combination in restraint of
trade nor a conspiracy in restraint of trade under the
Sherman Act. By such decision the District Court construed the Sherman Act.
The Criminal Appeals Act of 1907, under which the
present writ of error was brought, was repealed by the

UNITED STATES v. WINSLOW.
227 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Judicial Code which became effective January 1, 1912,
and therefore this court has no jurisdiction as the writ of
error was filed after that date. United States v. Stevenson,
215 U. S. 190.
'The fact that the machines manufactured by the company are protected by letters-patent was not considered by
the District Court in its construction of the Sherman Act,
and is not open in this court.
The District Court was not in error in its construction
of the Sherman Act in relation to counts one and two.
The organization of the company by said, defendants
together, and the turning over by said groups of defendants
to and the taking over by the company of the stocks and
business of the three corporations, was not, and is not,
a combinqtion in restraint of defendants' own trade nor
a conspiracy in- restraint of trade of the shoe manufacturers in- shoe machinery.
United States v. American
Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106.
By the organization of the United Shoe Machinery
Company there was no restriction of competition. The
three groups of defendants, prior to the organization of
the company, were not engaged in competition with each
other. Their businesses were absolutely' different, and
each business related to a different commodity. Kokomo
Fence Machine Co. v. Kitselman,' 189 U. S. 8; Addyston
Pipe Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211; Northern Sec. Co.
v. United States, 193 U. S. 197; Montague v. Lowry, 193
U. S. 38; Miles Medical Co. v. Park Co., 220 U. S. 373;
Shawnee Compress Co. v. Anderson, 209 U. S. 423; Continental Wall Paper Co. v. Voight, 212 U. S. 227; U. S.
Machinery Co. v. La Chapelle, 212 Massachusetts, 467;
Swift & Co. v. United States,'196 U. S. 375; United Slates v.
,lohn Reardon Co., 191 Fed. Rep. 454; StandardSanitary Co.
v. United States, 226 U. S. 20; United States v. Un. Pac.R. R.
Co., 226 U. 8. M1; United Slates v. Terminal R. R. Ass'n, 224
U. S. 38: ; Utr
ritd
States v. Reading Co., 226I U. S. 324.
VOL. ccxxvu-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

227 U. S.

By the organization of the company the defendants,
taken individually,. or in groups, or together, did not agree
to restrain such trade as they had in different commodities, or in any manner to restrain their own trade.
Addyston Pipe Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211; Montague v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38; Shawnee Compress Co. v.
Anderson, 209 U. S. 423; Continental Wall Paper Co. v.
Voight, 212 U. S. 227; Ellis v. Inman, 131 Fed. Rep. 182;
-StandardOil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1; United States
v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106; Blount Mfg. Co. v.
Yale Mfg. Co., 166 Fed. Rep. 555; United States v. TransMissouri Ass'n, 166 U. S. 290; Swift & Co. v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375; Miles Medical Co. v. Park Co., 220
U. S. 373; United States v. -Standard Sanitary Co., 191
Fed. Rep. 172; Bigelow v. Calumet & Hecla Co., 167 Fed.
Rep. 721.
The combination created by the organization of the
United Shoe Machinery Company was-purely an economic
arrangement, not in violation of any rule in restraint of
trade at common law, or which has been announced by
the Supreme Court. Joint Traffic Case, 171 U. S. 505.
The, combination of 'businesses, each dealing with a
different commodity, into one corporation, has never been
held a restraint of trade either at common law or under
the Sherman Act. United States v. American Tobacco Co.,
221 U. S. 106; United States v. Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324;
Union Pacific Coal Co. v. United States, 173 Fed. Rep.
737; United States v. Standard Oil Co., 173 Fed. Rep. 177.
That the District Court was right in the only construction of the Sherman Act now before this court, to wit, in
holding that the organization of the United Shoe Machinery Company was not within the purview of the
Sherman Act, is further apparent from the fact that such
organization of the United Shoe Machinery Company
had no direct or immediate effect upon interstate commerce. If it had any effect at all upon interstate corn-

UNITED STATES v. WINSLOW.
227 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

merce, such effect was accidental, secondary' remote,
and not even probable. Bigelow v. Calumet & Hecla Co.,
167 Fed. Rep. 721; Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S.
604; Field v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 194. U. S. 618;
Standard Oil Co. v. United'States, 221 U. S. 1.
Whether these lease provisions are or are not in restraint
of trade is not before this court for several reasons: these
defendants are not indicted for making these lease provisions; the language of the indictment in regard to these
leases shows it; the act of the defendants in relation to
these lease provisions is only an overt act, and only one of
three or four overt acts named in the same paragraph of
indictment; the combination and conspiracy are each absolutely complete without this overt act; the leases are
not a part of the combination or conspiracy. No original
intent to change leases is shown or any agreement to do so;.
the leases are not part of the original combination or conspiracy because between different parties; the question is
one of duplicity on the theory of the 'United States; the
lease provisions in these two counis were not construed or
passed upon by the District Court; if the lease provisions
had been involved here, the District Court would have
considered the patent law.
The entire argument of the United States in regard to
the business of these defendants and of the corporation is
based on the erroneous view that the machines of the defendants were all'the machines used in shoe making, and
as a corollary to the above, the United States says that
the defendants control between seventy and eighty per
cent. of the entire shoe machinery business in the United
States.
On this record the particular form of the organiza tion of
the company, and the taking over of the capital stocks
and business of the three origiial corporations is immaterial.
Itdictment 113 was dismissed by the Dist rict Court for

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

227 U. S.

duplicity and it should be explained why the second count
of indictment 114 was not brought to this court by the
United States.
The defendants are not indicted for dominating the supply of shoe machinery. Reading R.R. Case, 226 U. S. 324.
The argument of the United States fails absolutely, because the defendants are not indicted for dominating the
supply of shoe machinery; so also as to the alleged competition before the date of the organization of the company
and 'the alleged competition thereafter.
The argument of the United States, as to the effect of
Ihe organization of the United Shoe Machinery Conpany,
is absolutely fallacious.
The particular patented machines. of these defendants
are not indispensable to the manufacturer of shoes by the
admission of -the United States in its brief; in fact the
dissatisfied shoe manufacturer mentioned by the United
States is better off after the organization of this company
than before.
The organization .of the company did not compel the
customer to deal with the same group as to the four classes
of machinery. All Of the cases (ited by the United States
in this section of its brief relate to combinations of competitors dealing in the same comniodity.
It i. to be remenibered that. defendart s are not indict6d
for monopolizing; that defendants' machines are patented
and they are entitled to one hundred per cent. of the trade
L
therein.
The merger of the three companies was lawful and
proper.
The leases form no part of -the merger and are not pertii'nt to this (iSCQIoI1.
No express agreeiMent to restrain trade is alleged, and,
therefore, t he (Governnient is eornjelled to contend that
lwe natural, tie<ess;iry and inevitable effect of the merger
was to restrain Iia le.

UNITED STATES v. WINSLOW.
227 U. S.

Argument for Defendants inError.

In every prior case, except Loewe
v. Lawlor, 208 U. S.
274, the combination complained of has been a combination of competitors or a combination formed to eliminate
competition.
As to the character of conduct condemned by the Sherman Act -see Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1;
United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106;
United States v. Joint Traffic Asso., 171 U. S. 505;Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 604.
The merger did not produce, was .not designed to produce, and its natural or necessary effect was not to produce
any restraint of trade, for defendants were not personally
restrained; defendants' business was not restrained; shoe
manufacturers were not restrained; other shoe machinery
manufacturers were not restrained.
The Government's contention that the shoe manufacturer's liberty of action was restrained because the
number of concerns with which he could disagree was reduced, is unsound.
No greater power to restrain trade resulted from the
merger, and if it coil1d be held that any such power did
result, it would not naturally or inevitably restrain trade.
No such power did result. If it did, the probability that
it wbuld produce a restraint of trade is too remote. Svwift
& Co. v. United States, 196U. S.,375; Commonwealth v.
Peaslee,.177 Massachusetts, 267.
If any restraint of trade could result from the merger
it would be purely incidental to the accomplishment of a
lawful purpose. Bigelow v. Calumet & Hecla Co., 167
Fed. Rep. 721; Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 604;
Field v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 194 U. S. 618; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S..1; United States v.
Joint Traffic Asso., 171 U. S. 55.
The concentration of manufacturing at Beverly produced no restraint of trade.
The leases m'ade by th.e (hefeI(latts were eleil, lawful

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

whether considered separately or in connection with the
merger.
The general rule is that all restrictions imposed by
patentees not in their very. nature illegal are lawful.
Bement v. National Harrow Co., 186 U. S. 70.
Considerations of public policy not recognized in the
patent law -are irrelevant; the right to grant restricted
licenses is given by the patent law. Henry v. Dick Co., 224
U. S. 1.
This right, like other rights under the patent law, should
be construed liberally. Ames v. Howard, 1 Sumner, 482;
Henry v. Dick Co., 224 U. S.1.
If general considerations of public policy can be considered as relevant, the right to impose such restrictions
should be favored.
The Sherman Act is not applicable to restrictions which
are reasonable when considered with due regard for the
patentee's lawful monopoly. Bement v. National Harrow
Co., 186 U. S.70; Henry v. Dick Co., 224 U. S.1; Standard
Sanitary Co. v. United States, 226 U. S.20.
The public have no right to have an unrestrained trade
in or use of patented articles. United States v. American
Bell Tel. Co., 167 U. S.224; Park v. Hartmann, 153 Fed.
Rep. 24; Rubber Tire Wheel Co. v. Milwaukee Rubber Wortks
Co., 154 Fed. Rep. 358;'Cilley v. U. S. Machinery Co., 152
Fed. Rep. 726.
If trade is affected by reason of such conditions or restrictions imposed by patentees, such effect is incidental
to the exercise of lawful rights, and therefore is itscl[ lawful. The patentee's compensation need not be direct hi)
may come from the sale or use of some other article.
Button-FastenerCase, 77 Fed. Rep. 288; Henry v. Dick Co.,
224 U. S.1.

it
oOullt,

.Jugs'r1l('

.ot,MErs

delivered the opillioll

of

the

UNITED STATES v. WINSLOW.
227 U. S.

Opliion of the Court.

This is a writ of error to determine whether two counts
in an indictment as construed by the District Court
charge offences under the Sherman Act of July 2, 1890,
c. 647. 26 Stat. 209. They were held bad, on demurrer, by the District Court. 195 Fed. Rep. 578. The
two counts allege substantially the same facts.; the first
laying them as a combination in restraint of the trade
of the defendants themselves, the second as a conspiracy in restraint of the trade of others, shoe manufacturers.
The facts alleged are as follows: For the last twenty-five
years practically all the shoes worn in the United States
have been made by the help of machines, grouped as Iasting machines, welt-sewing machines and outsole-stitching
machines, heeling machines and metallic fastening machines, there being a large variety of machines in each
group. (These machines of course are not alleged to do
all the work of making finished shoes.) There is a great
number of. shoe factories, and because the machines are
expensive and the best of them patented, the manufacturers have had to get them principally from the defendants. Before and up to February 7, 1899, the defendants
Winslow, Hurd and Brown, through the Consolidated
and McKay Lasting Machine Company, under letters

patent, made sixty per cent. of all the lasting machines
made in the United States; the defendants Barbour and
Howe, through the Goodyear Shoe Machinery Company,
in like manner made eighty per cent. of all the welt-sewing
machines and outsole-stitching machines, and ten per
cent. of all the lasting machines; and the defendant Storrow, (against whom the indictment has been dismissed),
through the McKay Shoe Manufacturing Company,
made seventy per cent. of all the heeling machines and
eighty per cent. of all the metallic fastening machines
made in the United States. The defe-dants all were
carrying on commerce among the States with such of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

shoe manufacturers as are outside Massachusetts, the
State where the defendants made their machines.
On February 7, 1899, the three groups of defendants
above named, up to that time separate, organized the
United Shoe Machinery Company and turned over to that
company the stocks and business of the several corporations that they respectively controlled. The new company now makes all the machines that had been made in
different places, at a single new factory at Beverly, Massachusett, and directly, or through subsidiary companies,
carries on all the commerce among the States that had
been carried on independently by the constituent companies before. The defendants have ceased to sell shoe
machinery to the shoe manhfacturers. Instead, they only
let machines, and on the condition that unless the shoe
manufacturers use only machines of the kinds mentioned
furnished by the defendants, or if they. use any such machines furnished by other machinery makers, then all
machines let by the defendants shall be taken away.
This condition they constantly have enforced. The defendants are aleged to have done the acts recited with
intent unreasonably to extend their monopolies, rights
and control over commerce among the States; to enhance
the value of the same at the'expense of the public, and
to discourage others from inventing and manufacturing
machines for the work done by those of tho defendants.
The organization of the new company and the turning
over of the stocks and business to it are alleged to constitute a breach of the Sherman Act.
It is to be observed that the conditions now inserted in
the leases are not alleged to have been contemporaneous
with the combinAtion, or to have been contemplated when
it was made. The District Court construed the indictment as confined to the combination of February 7, that
is, simply to the merger of the companies without regard
to the leases subsequently made, 195 Fed. Rep. 592, 594;

UNITED STATES v. WINSLOW.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and we have no jurisdiction to review this interpretation
of the indictment. United States v. Patten, 226 U. S, 525.
Hence the only question before us is whether that combination taken by itself was within, the penalties of the
Sherman Act. The validity of the leases or of a combination contemplating them cannot be passed upon in this
case.
Thus limited the question does not require lengthy discussion, and a large part of the argument addressed to us
concerned matters not open here. On the face of it the
combination was simply an effort after greater efficiency.
The business of the several groups that combined, as it
existed before the combination, is assumed to have been
legal. The machines are patented, making them is a
monopoly in any case, the exclusion of competitors from
the use of them is of the very essence of the right conferred
by the patents, PaperBag Patent Case, 210 U. S. 405, 429,
and it may be assumed that the success of the several
groups was due to their patents having been the best. As,
by the interpretation of the indictment below, 195 Fed.
Rep. 591, and by the admission in argument before us,
they did not compete with one another, it is hard to see
why the collective business should be any worse than its
component parts. It is said that from seventy to eighty
per cent. of all the shoe machinery business was put into a
single hand. This is inaccurate, since the machines in
question are not alleged to be types of all the machines
used in making shoes, and since the defendants' share in
commerce among the States does not appear. But taking
it as true we can see no greater objection to one corporation manufacturing seventy per cent. of three noncompeting grou5s of patented machines collectively used for
making a single product than to three corporations making
the same proportion of one group each. The disintegration aimed at by the statute does not extend to reducing
all manufacture to isolated units of the lowest degree.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

It is as lawful for one corporation to make every part of a
steam engine and to put the machine together as it would
be for one to make the boilers and another to make the
wheels. Until the one intent is nearer accomplishment
than it is by such a juxtaposition alone, no intent could
raise the conduct to the dignity of an attempt. See Virtue
v. Creamery Package Manufacturing Co., ante, p. 8. Swift
& Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 396.
It was argued as an afterthought that the act of March 2,
1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246, under which the United
States took this writ of error, was repealed by the Judicial Code of March 3, 1911, c. 231. 36 Stat. 1087,
1168. But it is not mentioned among the statutes expressly repealed by ยง 297 of the latter act, it is not superseded by any other regulations of the matter, it is a special
provision, and on principles similar to those discussed in
Ex parte United States, Petitioner, 226 U. S. 420, it must
be held not to have been repealed. See further Johnson v.
United States, 225 U. S. 405, 419; Petriv. Creelman Lumber Co., 199 U. S. 487, 497.
Judgment affirmed.

ST. LOUIS SOUTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY OF TEXAS v. ALEXANDER.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW' YORK

No. 738. Submitted December 2, 1912.-Decided February 3, 1913.
In order to hold a corporation personally liable in a foreign jurisdiction it must appear that the corporation was within the jurisdiction and that process was duly served upon one of its authorized
agents.

