OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

and papers called for by the subpoena were corporate
records and documents. Whether or not the title to them
had passed to Burlingame when The Ellsworth Company
ceased to do business, their essential character was not
changed. They remained subject to inspection and examination when required by competent authority, and they
could not have been withheld by Burlingame himself
upon the ground that they would tend to incriminate
him. Nor was there any unreasonable search or seizure.
Wheeler v. United States, 226 U. S. 478; Wilson v. United
States, 221 U. S. 361.
It follows that Grant, from any point of view, was not
justified in his refusals, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

DAVIS v. LAS OVAS COMPANY, INCORPORATED.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 87.

Argued December 16, 1912.-Decided January 20, 1913.

Where the true consideration of a syndicate purchase is concealed and
the property is conveyed at a higher figure in shares of stock to a
corporation whose stock is held partly by the members of the syndicate and partly by others and the necessary increase of shares to
pay for the property goes to some of the syndicate promoters as a
secret profit, the corporation may maintain an action to require those
obtaining the shares to surrender them for cancellation.
Fraud in the purchase of property which is to be conveyed to a corporation composed partly of those purchasing the property and partly
by others may become operative against the corporation itself and
give it a right to maintain an action against some or all of those
guilty of the fraud to protect the innooent stockholders who bought in
ignorance thereof.

DAVIS v. LAS OVAS CO.
227 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

A recovery in such an action is not defeated because the benefits would
inure to some of the guilty. as well as to the innocent stockholders.
The corporation may sue one or all of those participating in such a
fraud, and there is no fatal omission of parties if all are not joined.
Where the fraud on a corporation resulted in the issuing of more stock
than would otherwise have been necessary, the proper decree is to
compel those who fraudulently obtained the additional stock to
surrender it for cancellation.
35 App. D. C. 372, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Samuel A. Putman and Mr. J. K. M. Norton for
appellants.
The company proved no right to the relief prayed for.
It was merely a receptacle for the property, a creature
erected for the convenience of the syndicate. The syndicate instead of taking the property in their own name put
it in a company, which company was themselves, and
only themselves, and gave it back to themselves in the
shape of a certain number of shares of stock. Old
Dominion Copper Co. &c. v. Lewisohn, 210 U. S. 206;
Morowitz on Corporations (2d ed.), § 292.
When directors issue the whole stock of the company
for property worth less than the par amount no one is inCook, Corporations (6th ed.) § 651; Blum v.
jured.
Whitney, 185 N. Y. 232 (1906); Stratton v. Pines, 126 Fed.
Rep. 968; aff'd 135 Fed. Rep. 449.
When all the stock of a corporation is issued in payment
for property the vendor cannot be held liable for misrepresentations as to the value of the property. Foster v.
Seymour, 23 Fed. Rep. 65; McCracken v. Robinson, 57
Fed. Rep. 375; Du Pont v. Tilden, 42 Fed. Rep. 87; Wood
v. Corry Water Works, 44 Fed. Rep. 146; Fort Madison
Bank v. Alden, 129 U. S. 373; Barr v. N. Y., L. E.
& W. R. Ry. Co., 125 N. Y. 263, 273; Seymore v.
VOL. ccxxvii-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellants.

227 U. S.

Spring Forrest Ass'n., 144 N. Y. 333; Thornton v. Wabash
Ry. Co., 81 N. Y. 462, 467; Parsons v. Hayes, 14 Abb.
N. C. (N. Y.) 419, 434; King v. Barnes, 109 N. Y. 267, 268;
Insurance Press v. Montauk Wire Co., 103 App. Div.
(N. Y.) 472; Higgins v. Lansing, 154 Illinois, 301, 331;
Spaulding v. North Milwaukee Town Site Co., 106 Wisconsin, 481, 488; Garretson v. Pacific Crude Oil Co., 146
California, 184; St. L., F. S. & W. Ry. Co. v. Tierman, 37
Kansas, 606, 633; Walburne v. Chenault, 43 Kansas, 356,
361; Arkansas &c. Co. v. Farmers &c. Co., 13 Colorado,
587; Tompkins v. Sperry Jones, 96 Maryland, 560, 583;
Swift v. Smith, 65 Maryland, 428, 435; Merchants & M.
S. B. v. BurlingtonC. & I. Co., 41 S. E. Rep. (W. Va.) 390;
Clark v. American Coal Co., 17 L. R. A. 557, 561; Divine
v. U. S. M. M. & Co., 38 S. W. Rep. 93, 98; In re Ambrose
L. R. 14 Ch. D. 390, 395; Salomen v. Salomen, L. R.
(1897) A. C. 22.
There is no legal difference between the holder of an option and a full owner of land. Densmore Oil Co. v. Densmore, 64 Pa. St. 49; Cummings v. Beavers, 103 Virginia,
230.
Neither Reid, who absolutely controls the company and
its directors, nor Sowers can use the company to sue for
an alleged wrong done to them by Davis and Phillips.
The syndicate agreement affords no basis of claim on
the part of the company. The syndicate agreement was
wholly between the parties thereto. Hutchinson v. Simpson, 92 App. Div. (N. Y.) 382; Blum v. Whitney, 185N. Y.
232, 241.
The formation of the company, the taking of all its
stock, and the putting of the title to the property in it
were all merely the carrying out of the syndicate agreement. 3 Thompson on Corporations, 3d ed., § 3997.
The company has not authorized this suit. No action
of a special meeting of the board of directors is valid unless
all the directors are notified, even though the presence of

DAVIS v. LAS OVAS CO.
227 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

the absent ones could not have changed the result.
3 Thompson on Corp., § 3936.
A power of attorney from one director to another to
represent him at meetings of the board is illegal and void.
3 Thompson on Corp., §§ 3909, 3925.
Herbert and Micou should have been made parties.
Here the members of the syndicate, although members
of the corporation, are not joined and it is sought to throw
the burden of their act upon a single one. See Shields v.
Barrow, 17 How. 130; Barney v. Baltimore, 6 Wall. 280;
Jessup v. Illinois Cent. R. Co., 36 Fed. Rep. 738.
It was error to decree cancellation of stock.
Equity will surely not allow the plaintiff to purposely
leave out some and make victims of a part without good
reason. Thompson on Corp., §§ 465, 473; Old Dominion
Copper Mining Co. v. Lewisohn, supra.
The measure of the recovery in equity is only the net
secret profits. McIlhenny's Appeal, 61 Pa. St. 188;
Emma Silver Mining Co. v. Grant, 11 L. R. Ch. Div. 918;
7 Am. & Eng. Enc., p. 22; Littel v. Julius LansburghFurniture Co., 96 Virginia, 540. Yeiser v. U. S. Paper Co., 107
Fed. Rep. 340, distinguished.
While a promoter may be charged with secret profits he
is entitled to his expenses. McIlhenny's Appeal, 61 Pa.
St. 188.
Parties are not allowed to take inconsistent positions
in legal proceedings. 7 Am. & Eng. Enc. Law, p. 22.
Littel v. Julius Lansburgh Furniture Co., 96 Virginia, 540.
The authorities relied on by the appellee company are
unlike the case at bar. They were cases where the public
was brought in as subscribers and were deceived or defrauded, as in Yeiser v. U. S. Paper Co., 107 Fed. Rep.
340; Erlanger V. New Sombrero Phosphate Co., 3 App.
Cases, 1218, and Gluckstein v. Barnes (1900), A. C. 240.
Mr. J. J. Darlingtonfor appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Memorandum opinion by direction of the court.

By

MR. JUSTICE LURTON.

This is a bill by the appellee to recover from appellants
secret profits made by them as promoters of the Las Ovas
Company in the purchase of a part of a tract of land known
as Las Ovas in the Republic of Cuba, and also for the
cancellation of certain shares of stock issued to them as
promoters.
The facts essential to judgment are not in serious dispute. They are found clearly and fully stated in the
.opinion by Mr. Justice Gould of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia, and again in the opinion of
the Court of Appeals of the District by Mr. Justice
Robb.
From the facts found by both courts it appears:a. That the appellants and certain other persons, not
parties to this suit, signed an agreement on March 19,
1904, by which they agreed to purchase for a corporation
which they were to organize a specified part of a tract of
land in Cuba called the Las Ovas plantation, for the price
of $34,000, to which it was later agreed to add another
small parcel at an additional price of $1,000.
b. It was further agreed that they should organize a
corporation, of which they should be the incorporators,
with a capital stock of $150,000, and that 40 % of the
shares should be issued to them for service as promoters
and that the remaining stock should be subscribed for by
them. For this subscribed stock they were to pay an
amount sufficient to cover the purchase money of $35,000
and to create an expense fund of $5,000. .
c. It was agreed that the property should, when acquired, be placed in the hands of one of the group of promoters until the formation of the company, and then conveyed to it.
d. The scheme was one originated and .engineered by

DAVIS v. LAS OVAS CO.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the appellants, who at the time of this agreement had
already secretly secured an option for themselves for the
purchase of this property at the price of $20,000. To
conceal the true consideration from their associates they
caused the property to be conveyed by the vendor to one
Escalante, a stranger selected by them. The deed to
Escalante recited the true consideration. Later, in pursuance of the promoters' agreement, they caused Escalante
to convey to the member of the syndicate selected to hold
the title until organization, reciting a consideration of
$35,000.
The corporation was organized as planned. The promoters' shares were duly issued and the remaining shares
taken by the promoters upon the agreed terms, its officers
and directors being composed exclusively of the members
of the syndicate. Thereupon the property was transferred
to the company and paid. for, through appellants, out
of the proceeds of the subscribed stock.
The result of the transaction was that the corporation
was required to pay to those who had assumed to act for
and represent it, a secret profit of fifteen thousand dollars
and also to compensate them for their services in buying
the land and organizing the company by issuing to each
of them fifteen thousand dollars in non-assessable shares
of its stock.
The decree below required the appellants to account for
the profits realized by them, in part traced to certain shares
in their hands, and to surrender for cancellation the shares
issued to them as promoters.
It is now said that the corporation was " a mere convenient receptacle for the property, erected for the convenience of the syndicate." That the property was bought
by the syndicate for their own advantage and that the
corporation included only the members of the syndicate.
That the stock of the company was all taken by the
syndicate, who, for property which was their own, agreed

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

to pay enough to cover the purchase price and create a
small expense fund.
Upon this contention it is urged that the corporation has
no right to the relief sought, as the whole transaction was
a mere form adopted by the parties for their own convenience as owners of the property and owners of the corporation. It is then said: "If we admit, for the purposes of
this point, that appellants did deceive some of the syndicate, what has the company to do with it?" For this they
cite Old Dominioa Copper Company v. Lewisohn, 210 U. S.
206, where it was held that a subordinate fraud practiced
by some of the promoters of a corporation upon some of
their associates was a matter wholly between them and the
syndicate which gave rise to no corporate right of action
in the absence of innocent incorporators or stockholders.
But that is not this case. Some of those, if not all,
interested by appellants in the property and in its purchase
for a proposed consideration were ignorant of the real
price which they were to pay for it, and were not, therefore, in complicity with their scheme to make a secret
profit. These innocent members of the syndicate became
stock subscribers and directors of the company, as did
appellants. The buyers and sellers were not the same.
Those of the syndicate assuming to act for the corporation
in acquiring the property were under obligation to disclose
the truth and de:it openly. In the absence of such disclosure the corporate assent was obtained on false grounds.
The wrong was done when those members of the syndicate
not in complicity with appellants subscribed to the stock
of the company and :iided their guilty associate managers
ill lhe corporate action necessary to the corporate acquisition of the property at the exaggerated price placed
upon it by those who were to realize a secret profit. Thus,
the original fraud practiced upon some of those associated
withi them ini the promot erg arrangement became operative, against the corporation itself. The standing of the

DAVIS v. LAS OVAS CO.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

corporation results from the fact that there were innocent
and deceived members of the corporation when the property was taken over by it.
Neither is the corporate right of action defeated by the
fact that the recovery will inure to the guilty as well as to
the innocent, nor is the fact that all of the parties who may
have shared in the secret profits are not sued fatal to the
case. The corporation may well sue either one or all of
those who received secret profits. There is no want of
necessary parties because all are not here sued.
The distinction between a case in which all of the owners
of the property and all of the members of the buying
corporation are the same persons, and participate in the
profit realized, and the case here presented is fully recognized in Old Dominion Copper Company v. Lewisohn, supra,
as well as in PhosphateCompany v. Erlanger,5 Ch. Div. 73,
and in the well considered 'Opinion of Judge Severens in
Yeiser v. U. S. Paper Co., 107 Fed. Rep. 340.
There was no error in cancelling the shares issued to the
plaintiffs in error for promotion of the corporation. They
and the other members of the syndicate received these
shares upon the assumption that they had in good faith
served the corporation in the procurement of the property.
Obviously appellants were serving themselves to the
detriment of the corporation and innocent subscribers to
its stock. In such a situation the corporation may recover
the shares.
The decree will be aOirmed.

