OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

formance of the duty to promptly deliver in consummation
of such transportation.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas is
reversed with costs, and the case is remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

PEOPLE OF PORTO

RICO v. ROSALY Y CASTILLO.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 145.

Submitted January 24, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

The government of Porto Rico cannot be sued without its consent.
The government of Porto Rico, as established by 'the Organic Act,
with some possible exceptions, comes within the general rule exempting a government sovereign in its attributes.
That government of Porto Rico, as established by the Organic Act of
April 12, 1900, is a strong likeness of that established for Hawaii
which has immunity from suit. Kawananakoa v. Polyblank, 205
U. S. 349.
The provision in § 7 of the Organic Act of Porto Rico that the people
of Porto Rico .shall have power to sue and be sued is not to be construed as destroying the grant of sovereignty given by the act itself.
Like words may have one significance in one context and a different
signification ift another.
In construing an organic act of a Territory 'this court will consider
that Congress intended to create a government conforming to the
American system of divided powers-legislative, executive and
judicial-and did not intend to give to any one branch of that government power by which the government itself so created could be
destroyed.
The words "to sue and be sued" as used in § 7 of the Organic Act of
Porto Rico, when construed in connection with the grant of governmental powers therein contained, amount only to a recognition of a
liability to be sued in case of consent duly given.
16 Porto Rico, 481, reversed.

PORTO RICO v. ROSALY.
227 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

THE facts, which involve the construction of § 7 of the
Organic Act of Porto Rico and whether the Government
of that Island can be sued without its consent, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Felix Frankfurter and Mr. Wolcott H. Pitkin, Jr.,
Attorney General of Porto Rico, for appellants:
Although this is an action at law, as it was not tried by
jury it is rightly brought here by appeal, according to the
provisions of § 35 of the act of April 12, 1900, 31 Stat.
85, and § 2 of the act of April 7, 1874, 18 Stat. 27. Garzot v.
de Rubio, 209 U. S. 283; Murphy v. Ramsey, 114 U. S. 15, 35.
The body politic known as The People of Porto Rico, by
virtue of the government established by its Organic Act,
enjoys exemption from suit without its own permission,
which extends to this case. Elkins v. Porto Rico, 5 P. R.
Fed. Rep. 103; Richmond v. Porto Rico, 99 N. Y. Supp.
743.
Kawananakoa v. Polyblank, 205 U. S. 319, controls
this case, for there is no difference whatever in the structure of their governments, in the actual exercise of governmental powers, and the relation of independence of the
local governments to the National Government, between
Hawaii and Porto Rico.
The Organic Act of Porto Rico created a self-governing
sovereignty for purposes of immunity from suit without
consent.
The purpose of the act is to give local self-government,
conferring an autonomy similar to that of the States and
Territories. Gromer v. Standard Dredging Co., 224 U. S.
362, 370.
Only for political reasons has the technical designation
of "Territory" been withheld by Congress-but every
attribute of sovereignty that any of the Territories possess
has been conferred. Kopel v. Bin gham, 211 U. S. 468, 476;
In re Kopel, 148 Fed. Rep. 505, 507.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellants.

227 U. S.

Thus far United States citizenship, in name, has been
withheld, but the granting of it, in view of the status of
Porto Rico has been urged by the Executive and a bill
conferring it has passed the House of Representatives and
is now before the Senate (see H. Rep. 20048, 62d Cong.,
2d sess.; H. Rep. 341, 62d Cong., 2d sess.; President's
message of December 6, 1912, and Annual Report of
Secretary of War for 1911, p. 40).
Porto Rico's immunity from suit, by virtue of its
Organic Act creating a sovereign body politic, was not
limited by the specific provision conferring upon the
Island "power to sue and be sued as such." Section 7
of the Foraker Act does not amount to a blanket authority
to sue ad libitum the government established by the
Organic Act. Nor is it for Porto Rico not only a Tucker
Act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 505, giving specific permission of the sovereign (using the term in the qualified
sense as covering the sovereign's immunity here under
discussion) to be sued in a definite class of cases and in a
manner and subject to the restrictions that it may see
fit to impose (see Reid v. United States, 211 U. S. 529, 538),
but an unlimited permission, subjecting the sovereign to
the same amenability to suit as its individual citizens.
The provision merely confers the attribute of individuality and does not enlarge the jurisdiction of courts.
Bank v. Deveaux, 5 Cranch, 61, 85-86.
Section 7 merely labeled the sovereignty created by the
whole scope of the Foraker Act, and did not impair the
sovereignty created by the rest of that act.
Consent to be sued has been granted by the Porto Rican
legislature in certain cases not here applicable (§ 404,
Political Code of Porto Rico, and sub-see. 5 of § 1804
of the Civil Code, in connection with § 80 of the Code of
Civil Procedure.
No appearance for appellee.

PORTO RICO v. ROSALY.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The appellee was plaintiff in the first instance. The
defendants were The People of Porto Rico (the Government of the Island) and several named individuals. Recovery was sought of property in possession of the
defendants and for rents and profits. The individual defendants defaulted. The Government defended and from
a judgment ousting it from the property and for rents and
profits appealed to the Supreme Court. The court, giving
its reasons for affirmance, thus stated the only issue presented and which was decided: "Tlue appeal was taken by
The People of Porto Rico, and the only ground alleged in
support thereof was that, inasmuch as The People of Porto
Rico could not be sued without its consent, and such consent not appearing to have been given in this case, the
District Court had acted without jurisdiction, and the
judgment rendered by it was null and void." The court did
not overlook the importance of the question, as is shown
by its careful and perspicuous opinion. A member of the
court-fully stated his reasons for dissenting. On'this appeal, taken by The People of Porto Rico, the case having
been tried without a jury, the question for decision is narrower than would seem to be the case regarding alone the
general terms in which the question is mentioned in the passage previously qu(ted from the opinion of the court below.
It is not open to controversy that aside from the existence of some exception the government which the organic act established in Porto Rico is of such nature as
to come within the general rule exempting a government
sovereign in its attributes from being sued without its
consent. In the first place, this is true because in a general
sense so far as concerns the frame work of the Porto Rican
government and the legislative, judicial and executive
authority with which it is endowed there is, if not a cornVOL. CCXXVII-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

plete identity, at least in all essential matters, a strong
likeness to the powers usually given to organized Territories
and moreover a striking similarity to the Organic Act of
the Hawaiian Islands (Act of April 30, 1900, chap. 339,
§§ .6, 55; 31 Stat. 141, 142 and 150). But as the incorporated Territories have always been held to possess an hnmunity from suit and as it has been moreover settled that
the government created for Hawaii is of such a character
as to give it immunity from suit without its consent, it
follows that this is also the case as to Porto Rico. Kawananakoa v. Polyblank, 205 U. S. 349, 353. This, moreover,
is additionally beyond question because in considering
the nature and character of the government of Porto Rico
in Kopel v. Bingham, 211 U. S. 468, it was said (p. 476):
"It may be justly asserted that Porto Rico is a completely organized Territory, although not a Territory
incorporated into the United States, and that there is no
reason why Porto Rico should not be held to be such a
Territory. . . ."
Besides, in Gromer v. Standard
Dredging Company, 224 U. S. 362, in considering the subject and giving due weight to "the- precaution against
abuse" of the Porto Rican legislative power and after
calling attention to the reservation made by Congress of
the right to repeal any Porto Rican act of legislation, it
was nevertheless declared (p. 370): "The purpose of the
act is to give local self-government, conferring an auton." There being,
omy similar to that of the States. ...
then, no doubt that immunity from suit without its consent is necessarily inferable from a mere consideration of
the nature of the Porto Rican government, the issue is
whether there is any ground which removes Porto Rico
from the general rule., That such an exception is the result
of the concluding portion of § 7 of the Organic Act was
the sole basis upon which the court below rested its conclusion and the correctness of that view is the only issue
we are called upon to decide.

PORTO RICO i. ROSALY.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The section in question, § 7, is the one which enumerates
the classes of persons who by the act are made constituent
elements of the government for which the act provides,
and after making such enumeration the section declares
that the persons embraced in its provisions "shall constitute a body politic under the name of The People of
Porto Rico with governmental powers as hereinafter conferred and with power to sue and be sued as such." \
Unquestionably the provision disconnected from its
context would sustain the conclusion that there exists a
general liability to be sued without reference to consent.
Indeed, the words to sue and be sued are but a crystallized
form of expression resorted to for the purpose of aptly
stating the right to sue and the liability to be sued, which
springs from a grant of corporate existence, private or
public. But this does not solve the question here arising,
which is the meaning of the words in the act under consideration, for it may be that like words may have one
significance in one context and a different signification in
another. And this is made clear by bearing in mind that
as usually applied the words to sue and be sued but express
implications as to the existence of powers flowing from the
matter to which they relate, while here if the words have
the meaning insisted on they serve, if not to destroy, at
least to seriously modify or greatly restrict the grant of
powers conferred by the organic act. The destructive
potency of the words if given the meaning insisted .upon is
self-evident, since the claim here is that they denature
the government created by the organic act by depriving
it of an immunity which has been frequently decided by
this court would otherwise necessarily arise from the scope
of the powers conferred. As, however, a full appreciation
of the operation of the words, if they are interpreted as
insisted upon, affords the truest means of ascertaining
their real signification, we do not rest xontent with that
which is self-evident, but pursue the subject further.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

The proposition is that by giving to the words the meahing
insisted upon it has come to pass that the existence of
claims of every kind and nature, whether in contract or
in tort against the government, is a matter for exclusive
judicial determination. But as the essence of paramount
judicial power over a subject confers the authority and
imposes the duty to enforce a judgment rendered in the
exercise of such power (Gordon v. United States, 117 U. S.
697, 702; La Abra Silver Mining Co. v. United States, 175
U. S. 423, 457; District of Columbia v. Eslin, 183 U. S.
62, 65), it follows that the contention is that the government created by the Organic Act is not the character of
government which this court has declared it to be in the
cases to which we have referred, that is, one founded upon
the American system, but is, on the contrary, one in which
the legislative power concerning claims of every kind
against the government is subordinated to the judi(i,,.
That such was the view taken by the court below of the
result of the meaning which it affixed to the clause in
question was plainly stated in the opinion as follows
(16 Porto Rico, 487):
"The 1presence of the words 'with power to sue and be
sued,' in our Organic Act, cannot be ascribed to an oversight of Congress, but, on the contrary, it may be presumed
that Congress employed them having in mind the obligntions contracted in the Treaty of Paris, and with the
desire of giving to the persons included in its stipulations
ready aceess to courts of justice, against any invasion of
their rights by governmental action. And indeed, there
should be no fear of entrusting to the courts the prot ee..
tion, not only of the persons mentioned in the treaty
but of any other persons, without excluding The P)eople
,of Porto ' Rico. This has been demonstrated suffic iently
by an experience of more than ten years."
In view, however, of the terms of the Organic Act, of
the prior (lecisi(),Ls re (cognizing that the purpose of ('on-

PORTO RICO v. ROSALY.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

gress in adopting it was to follow the plan applied from the
beginning to the organized Territories by creating a government conforming to the American system with defined
and divided powers, legislative, executive and judicial,
in further view of the fact that the exercise of the judicial
power here claimed would be destructive of that system,
we are of opinion that it cannot be supposed that Congress
intended by the clause in question to destroy the government which it was its purpose to create. In a sense the
words "to sue and be sued," applied, as they normally
have been, in grants of private or public charters, are
redundant, since they but express the existence of powers
which would naturally be implied. It may be true also
to say that if they be likewise confined in the case before
us they will also be in a sense redundant. Despite this,
we think they should be construed with reference to the
powers conferred by the provisions to which they relate,
and therefore cannot be treated as destructive of the
authority otherwise conferred by the act. Thus interpreting the clause, it is but an expression of the power to sue
arising from the terms of the Organic Act and a recognition of a liability to be sued consistently with the nature
and character of the government, that is, only in case of
consent duly given. The words, "shall have the governmental powers hereinafter conferred and with the power
to sue," etc., exclude the possibility in reason of holding
that the right to sue and be sued which was given "and
with," that is, because of or along with the powers conferred-was intended to or does distort or limit the powers
of government which the act conferred.
Reversed.

