CRENSHAW v. ARKANSAS.
227 V. S.

Syllabus.

the completion of the work 'or any part thereof' shall
discharge the surety at most merely recognizes that the
principal by accepting the ordinance contracted to do the
parts of the work as required, as well as the whole, and
with natural caution saves the rights of the obligee against
the surety in case of any extension of time, a matter that
obligees have learned to fear.
If our construction of the bond is right it does not need
much argument to show that the plaintiff is not entitled
to recover, seeing that within three years it took the
franchise back. It was said at the- bar, though not admitted, that the principal had given up work. But there
had been no repudiation of the contract, and the plaintiff
could not accelerate the forfeiture simply on the ground
that it was likely to come about. If, within the time
allowed for performance the plaintiff made performance
impossible, it ig unimaginable that any civilized system
of law would allow it to recover upon the bond for a
failure to perform. 2 B1. Comm. 340, 341. United States
v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691, 745, 746.
Judgment afrmed.

CRENSHAW v. STATE OF ARKANSAS.
GANNAWAY v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
Nos. 127, 128.

Argued January 20,21, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

The negotiation of sales of goods which are in another State, for the
purpose of introducing them in the State in which the negotiation is
made, is interstat commerce. Robbins v. Shlby County Taxing
Dist'ict, 120 U. S. 489.
The police power of a State cannot obstruct foreign or interstate

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
227 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

commerce beyond the necessity for its exercise; nor can objects not
within its scope be secured under color of the police power at the
expense of the protection afforded by the Federal Constitution.
Iailroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465.
While a tax on peddlers who sell and forthwith deliver goods is within
the police power of the State, a tax on one who travels and solicits
orders for goods to be shipped from without the State is a burden
on interstate commerce and unconstitutional. Emert v. Missouri,
156 U. S. 296, distinguished.
Peddlers, at common law, and under those statutes regulating them
which have been sustained, are such as travel from place to place
selling goods carried with them, and not such as take orders for delivery of goods to be shipped in the course of commerce.
This court in dealing with rights created and conserved by the Federal
Constitution looks to the substance of things and not the names by
which they are labeled.
A State cannot, by defining a business subject to its own police power
as including a class which is not subject to that power, deprive such
class of rights protected by the Federal Constitution.
A state statute, imposing a license on those who solicit orders, from
samples -which they do not sell, of articles to be shipped from another
State and which are afterwards delivered to the purchaser by the
manufacturer, is an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce
beyond the police power of the State, and cannot be justified as a
license tax on peddlers even though the state statute defines the
persons soliciting the orders as peddlers; and so held as to the law of
Arkansas of April 1, 1909, -regulating the sale of certain specified
articles within the State.
95 Arkansas, 464,,reversed.
THE

facts, which involve the constitutionality under the

commerce clause of the Federal Constitution of a law of the
State of Arkansas imposing a license on persons making

sales within that State as applied to articles delivered from
'other States, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. Merrick Moore for plaintiff in error:

1

The act of Arkansas of 1909 in so far as it applies to the
business engaged in by plaintiff in error is an unauthorized
I See also argument for plaintiff in error in Rogers v. Arkansas, post,
p. 402.

CRENSHAW v. 4RKANSAS.
227 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

regulation of interstate commerce, and as such is in conflict with Art. I, ยง 8, of the Constitution of the United
States. Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; Robbins v.
Shelby Co. Taxing Dist., 120 U. S. 489; Leloup v. Port of
Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Asher v. Texas, 128 U. S. 129;
Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100; Brennan v. Titusville, 153
U. S' 289; Stockard v. Morgan, 183 U. S. 27; Caldwell v.
North Carolina, 187 U. S. 632; Rearick v. Pennsylvania,
203 U. S. 507; Dozier v. Alabama, 218 U. S. 124.
It is immaterial whether the act of Arkansas of 1909 be
intended as a regulation of peddling, and riot as a regulation or license upon soliciting orders; or whether it be
regarded as a police or a revenue measure. Brown v.
Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 444; Robbins v. Shelby Co.
Taxing Dist., 120 U. S. 489; Leloup v. Port of Mobile, 127
U. S. 640; Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289; West. Un.
Tel. Co. v. State, 82 Arkansas, 314, 315; Welton v. Missouri,
91 U. S. 275; Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47.
It is immaterial whether the contract of sale of the
goods ordered be executed in the State where the purchaser resides, or in the State from which the goods are
shipped; and it is immaterial where title to the goods
passes. Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507; Dozier
v. Alabama, 218 U. S. 124; Caldwell V. North Carolina,187
U. S. 632; Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289.
Mr. William H. Rector, with whom Mr. Hal L. Norwood,
Attorney General of Arkansas, Mr. T. M. Mehaffy and
Mr. Charles C. Reid were on the brief, for defendants in
error:
The Supreme Court of Arkansas has construed the
act of 1909 as an exercise of the police power inherent in
the State-that construction is conclusive upon this court.
Barnhill v. State, 144 S. W. Rep. (Ark.) 211; Pabst Brew1 See also abstract of argurnont in Rogers v. Arkansa,., post, p. 405.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

ing Co. v. Crenshaw, 198 U. S. 17; Cargill Co. v. Minnesota,
180 U. S. 452; Delamater v. South Dakota, 205 U. S. 93;
Atlantic Coast Line v. Mazursky, 216 U. S. 122; Hammond
Packing Co. v, Arkansas, 212 U. S. 322; Armour Packing
Co. v. Lacey, 200 U. S. 226; Kahrer v. Stewart, 197 U. S.
60; Pullman Co. v. Adams, 189 U. S. 426; Osborne v.
Florida,164 U. S. 650.
The Peddling Act -of 1909 as applied to the facts in this
case is in no just sense a regulation of interstate commerce,
but is a rightful and proper exercise of the police power
inherent in the State and is neither arbitrary, unreasonable nor contrary to Art. I, ยง 8, of the Constitution of the
United States. Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99; Crutcherv.
Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; Nashville &c. Ry. Co. v. Alabama,
128 U. S. 96; Chi., Mil. &c. Ry. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S.
133; Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299; L. S. & M. S.
Ry. Co. v. Ohio, 133 U. S. 286; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 27; Asbell v. Kansas, 209 U. S. 251; M., K.
& T. Ry. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613; G., C. & S. F. Ry.
Co. v. Hefley, 158 U. S. 98; C., R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v.
Arkansas, 219 U. S. 126; Emert v. Missouri, 156 U. S. 298;
Allen v. Riley, 203 U. S. 347; Woods v. Karl, 203 U. S. 358;
Ozan Lumber CO. v. Union County Bank, 207 U. S. 251.
This case can be clearly distinguished from the cases
cited by plaintiff in error.
MR. JusnC

DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs in error were convicted under a law of
the State of Arkansas approved April 1, 1909 (Act 97,
Acts of 1909, p. 292), undertaking to regulate the sale of
lightning rods, steel stove ranges, clocks, pumps, and
vehicles in the several counties of the State. The judgment of conviction was affirmed, 95 Arkansas, 464, and
the case is here upon questions arising under the Federal
Constitution.

CRENSLIAW v. ARKANSAS.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The act provides:
"Section 1. That hereafter before any person, either
as owner, manufacturer or agent, shall travel over and
through any County and peddle or sell any lightning rod,
steel stove range, clock, pump, buggy, carriage or other
,vehicle or either of said articles, he shall procure a license
as hereinafter provided from the County Clerk of such
County, authorizing such person to conduct such business.
"Section 2. That before any person shall travel over
or through any County and peddle or sell any of the
articles mentioned above he shall pay into the County
Treasury of such County the sum of Two Hundred ($200)
Dollars, taking the receipt of the Treasurer therefor,
which receipt shall state for what purpose the money was
paid. The County Clerk of such County upon the presentation of such receipt shall take up the same and issue
to such person a certificate or license, authorizing such
person to travel over such County and sell such articles
or article for a period of one year from the first day of
January preceding the date of such license.
"Section 3. Any person who shall travel over or
through any County in this State and peddle or sell, or
offer to peddle or sell any of the above enumerated articles
without first procuring the license herein provided for
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined in any sum not less than two hundred
($200) dollars nor more than five hundred ($500) dollars."Section 4. That any person who shall travel over or
through any County in this State and peddle or sell any
of the articles mentioned above, shall be deemed and
held to be a peddler, under the provisions of this Act."
The case was considered upon an agreed statement of,
facts, of which the following is an abridgment:
The Range Company, a corporation organized under
the laws of Missouri with its principal offices and factory

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

at St. Louis, manufactures ranges which are sold by traveling salesmen in the "Jnited States, and among other places
in the counties of Arkansas. The business is conducted in
Union and other counties in Arkansas as follows: R. L.
Sutton, an employ6 of the Range Company and division
superintendent, has general supervision of the company's
business in that district, with four other employ6s, two
known as sample men or salesmen and tvyo as delivery
men, under his direction. The employ~s are paid stipulated compensation for their services, and none of them
has any financial or monetary interest in the property of
the company in Union county or in the sales or proceeds
of sales made by them in that county or elsewhere in
Arkansas other than the compensation above referred to.
The salesmen are furnished with a sample range, and a
wagon and team, and are sent into such territory in
Union or other counties of Arkansas as may be designated
by Sutton to solicit, orders for ranges. Where orders are
taken the purchaser signs a note providing for the payment of the purchase price. The note or order contains a
stipulation that it shall be void as against the purchaser
in the event the company fails to deliver the range ordered
within sixty days from date. All orders so taken are
f orwarded to Sutton, who investigates the credit of the
purchasers, and, if found satisfactory, proceeds to have
the orders filled within the sixty days' limit. Deliveries
are made through or by the employ6s of the company
known as delivery men, each of whom is furnished with a
delivery wagon and team by the company for that purpose. The ranges, wagons and teams are the property of
the company. The sample ranges entrusted to the salesmen by the company are not sold by them. Under no
circumstances do the salesmen deliver to the purchasers
the ranges for which orders are taken; under no circumstances do the delivery men sell or offer to sell or take
orders for ranges or deliver any ranges other than those

CRENSHAW v. ARKANSAS.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for which orders have previously been taken by the
salesmen. All ranges ordered and manufactured are
shipped in carload lots to Union and other counties, each
car containing sixty separate ranges and being consigned
by the company to itself in care of Sutton, its employ6.
At the end of each month Sutton settles with the company's employes, salesmen and delivery men and sends
their reports and his own report to the company, together
with all notes taken by the salesmen during the month,
and all cash in hand over $500, which amount is retained
as expense money.
A carload of ranges was thus shipped from St. Louis to
Eldorado, Arkansas, for the purpose of filling orders.
previously secured by the soliciting agents or traveling
salesmen. Upon the arrival of the car at Eldorado the
ranges were taken therefrom, loaded on-delivery wagons
and delivered by the delivery men to purchasers in the
precise shape, form, condition and packages in which
they were delivered to the common carrier at St. Louis.
It was agreed that Gannaway was a salesman of the
Range Company and had exhibited sample ranges and
solicited and taken orders and secured notes for them,
and that Crenshaw acted as a delivery man and delivered
ranges to parties in Union county, who had previously
given orders to salesmen.
This law is attacked and the conviction of Crenshaw
and Gannaway alleged to be unlawful because, among
other reasons, the law imposes -a direct burden upon
interstate commerce, exclusively within Federal control,
and therefore beyond the power of the State to regulate.
Under the facts which we have stated and upon which
the court below decided the case, we think the law applicable to the present situation is well settled by previous
decisions of this court.
The leading case is Robbins v. Shelby Counfy Taxing
District, 120 U. S.489, in which it was undertaken in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

State of Tennessee to impose by statute a license tax
upon drummers and persons not having a regular, licensed
house of business in the taxing district, offering to sell or
selling goods, wares or merchandise by sample. Robbins
was a resident of Cincinnati, Ohio, and was convicted of
having offered for sale articles of merchandise belonging
to a firm in Cincinnati to be shipped into Tennessee, without having secured the license required by statute. In
that case, while this court recognized the power of the
State to pass inspection laws to secure the due quality and
measure of products and commodities and laws to regulate
or restrict the sale of articles deemed injurious to the health
or morals, the principle was laid down (p. 497) that "the
negotiation of sales of goods which are in another State,
for the purpose .of introducing them into the State in
which ,the negotiation is made, is interstate commerce,"
and it was held beyond the power of the State to impose a
license tax upon the privilege of conducting such business.
That case has been strictly adhered to in this court since
its decision, and it is -only necessary to notice a few of the
many cases in which it has been applied.
In Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289, an ordinance
of the State of Pennsylvania was held invalid as imposing
a tax on interstate commerce, where the tax was sought
to be imposed upon a manufacturer of pictures residing in
Chicago, having his factory and place of business there,
whose agents solicited orders in Pennsylvania and other
States by going personally from house to house with
samples of pictures and frames. Upon the receipt of the
orders they were forwarded to Chicago, where the goods
were made and whence they were shipped to the purchasers in Pennsylvania and elsewhere. This court reviewed the previous cases at length and, in the course of
the discussion, said (p. 302):
"Even if it be that we are concluded by the opinion of
the Supreme Court of the State that this ordinance was

CRENSHAW v. ARKANSAS.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

enacted in the exercise of the police power, we are still
confronted with the difficult question as to how far an act
held to be a police regulation, but which in fact affects
interstate commerce, can be sustained. It is undoubtedly
true that there are many police regulations which do
affect interstate commerce, but which have been and will
be sustained as clearly within the power of the State; but
we think it must be considered, in view of a long line of
decisions, that it is settled that nothing which is a direct
burden upon interstate commerce can be imposed by the
State without the assent of Congress, and that the silence
of Congress in respect to any matter of interstate commerce is equivalent to a declaration on its part that it
should be absolutely free."
In Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622, a taxing
ordinance of the city of Greensboro was held invalid as an
unlawful interference with interstate commerce, where a
portrait company engaged in making pictures and frames
in Chicago sold them upon orders solicited in North
Carolina, shipping the pictures and frames in separate
packages to its own agent, who placed the pictures in
theii proper frames and delivered them to the persons
ordering them. This was held to be a transaction in interstate commerce and beyond the taxing power of the State,
and it was held to make no difference that the pictures
and frames were shipped to the company itself at Greensboro, where the agent of the company received them from
the railroad at its depot, carried them to his room in Greensboro, opened the packages, took out and assorted them
and put them together and in this form delivered them to
the purchasers in the city of Greensboro, who had previously ordered them. Of this feature of the case, which
had been held in the Supreme Court of North Carolina to
differentiate the case from the former cases, this court
said (p. 632):
'Nor does the fact that these articles were not shipped

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

separately and directly to each individual purchaser, but
were sent to an agent of the vendor at Greensboro, who
delivered them to the purchasers, deprive the transaction
of its character as interstate commerce. It was only that
the vendor used two instead of one agency in the delivery.
It would seem evident that, if the vendor had sent the
articles by an express company, which should collect on
delivery, such a mode of delivery would not have subjected the transaction to state taxation."
In Rearick v. Pennsylvania,203 U. S. 507, an ordinance
of the Borough of Sunbury in the State of Pennsylvania
was held invalid which undertook to make it unlawful to
solicit on the streets or by traveling from house to house,
orders for the sale or delivery at retail, of foreign or domestic goods not of the parties' own manufacture or production without a license, for which a fee was charged.
It was undertaken in that case to apply the ordinance to
Rearick, who solicited orders for brooms which were
shipped from Columbus, Ohio, to fill the orders solicited,
the brooms being tagged and marked according to the
number ordered, and tied together in bundles of about a
dozen for shipment. It was held that the brooms were
specifically appropriated to the keeping of contracts the
fulfilling of which required the transportation of the
brooms for delivery in interstate commerce.
In Dozier v. Alabama, 218 U. S. 124, where pictures
were sold to be transported and delivered in interstate
commerce and at the time they were ordered an option was
taken fixing the specific price of a frame in which the
picture was to be delivered, both picture and frame being
manufactured in another State and to remain the property
of the vendor until sold, the sale of the frame was held to
be part of a transaction protected by the commerce clause
of the Constitution, although the purchasers were not
bound to take the frames unless they saw fit. Applying
the previous cases, this court held the license tax for

CRENSHAW v. ARKANSAS.
227 U. Si

Opinion of the Court.

soliciting orders for the pictures and frames could not be
applied to persons taking such orders to be fulfilled by
shipments from another State which constituted interstate commerce and . inch could not be taxed under the
law of the State.
Nor does the fact that the law now in question was
alleged to have been passed in the exercise of the police
power of the State make it lawful. In Railroad Co. v.
Husen, 95 U. S. 465, 473, this court said that "the police
power of a State cannot obstruct foreign commerce or
interstate commerce beyond the necessity for its exercise; and under color of it objects not within its scope
cannot be secured at the expense of the protection afforded
by the Federal Constitution." To the same effect,
Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446, 460; Leisy v. Hardin,
135 U. S. 100, 108; Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289,
302, 303.
In the opinion delivered for the majority of the Supreme
Court of. Arkansas, the law in question was upheld, notwithstanding the decisions of this court, which were
recognized, because of the distinguishing feature of the
ordinance as a valid exercise of the police power of the
State in taxing the occupation of peddling, and to sustain
that conclusion Emert v. Missouri, 156 U. S. 296, was
relied upon. In that case a tax upon peddlers within the
State of Missouri by a statute of the State by which
peddlers of goods going from place to place in the State
were required to take out a license, was sustained. The
cases were fully considered by Mr. Justice Gray, who
delivered the opinion of the court, and the right to tax
peddlers from early tines in England and America was
stated, and a history of much of the legislation given.
The law was sustained as against the contention that
it violated the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution, because it was shown that Emert, who was convicted,
carried the machines with him in a wagon, and upon mak-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

ing a sale delivered the machine to the purchaser. He was
not merely soliciting orders for machines, but selling and
delivering them. Upon this ground the Supreme Court
of Missouri and this court placed its decision (p. 310),
and Mr. Justice Gray said (p. 311):
"The defendant's occupation was offering for sale and
selling sewing machines, by going from place to place in
the State of Missouri, in a wagon, without a license.
There is nothing in the case to show that he ever offered
for sale any machine that he did not have with him at
the time. His dealings were neither accompanied nor
followed by any transfer of goods, or of any order for their
transfer, from one State to another; and were neither
interstate commerce in themselves, nor were they in any
way directly connected with such commerce."
In the Emert Case, therefore, there was no movement
of goods in interstate commerce because of orders taken
for their sale, but the specific articles carried about by the
peddler, and none other, were sold and delivered by him.
In the majority opinion of the Supreme Court of Arkansas
the definition of hawkers and peddlers as understood at
common law was recognized--as one who goes from house
to house or place to place carrying hiM merchandise with
him which he concurrently sells and delivers, 2 Bouvier,
642 -but it was said that the legislature of Arkansas
might define the word peddlers so as to include such as
traveled from place to place and took orders for goods
from other States and that such persons, because of the
statute declaring them so, were peddlers and liable to be
taxed under the lawful exercise of the police power of the
State. We must look, however, to the substance of things,
not the names by which they are labelled, particularly in
dealing with rights created and conserved by the Federal
Constitution and finding their ultimate protection in the
decisions of this court. At common law and under the
statutes which have been sustained concerning peddlers

ROGERS v. ARKANSAS.
227 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

they are such as travel from place to place selling the goods
carried about with them, not such as take orders for the
delivery of goods to be shipped in the course of commerce.
Here, as the facts show, the sample ranges carried about
from place to place are not sold. Orders are taken and
transmitted to the manufacturer in another State for
ranges to be delivered in fulfillment of such orders, which
are in fact shipped in interstate commerce and delivered
to the persons who ordered them. Business of this character, as well settled by the decisions of this court, constitutes interstate commerce, and the, privilege of doing
it cannot be taxed by the State.
It follows that the judgments of the Supreme Court of
Arkansas must be reversed and the cases remanded to
that court for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Reversed.

ROGERS v. STATE OF ARKANSAS.
BARNHILL v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT

OF. THE STATE

OF

ARKANSAS.

Nos. 576, 577.

Argued January 21, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

Crenshaw v. Arkansas, ante, p. 389, followed to effect that the license
tax required by the Arkansas act of April 1, 1909, regulating the.
sale of certain specified articles, is unconstitutional under the coimerce clause as applied to persons soliciting orders for articles to
be shipped from without the State.
144 S. W. Rep. 211, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution of a law
VOL.

Ccxxvii-26

