MO., KANS. & TEX RY. v. HARRIMAN.
227 U. S.

657

Statement of the Case.

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY v. HARRIMAN.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 121.

Argued January 20, 1913.-Decided March 10, 1913.

Adams Express Co. v. Crowinger, 226 U. S. 491, and Kansas City
Southern Ry. v. Carl, ante, p. 639, followed to effect that the shipper
who values his goods for the purpose of obtaining the lower of two
duly published rates, based oil valuation, is estopped from recovering a greater amount than his oWn v.aluation; and that the Carmack Amendment to the fiepburn Act of 1906 expresses the policy
of Congress on this subject and supersedes all state legislation
thereon.
It is not unreasonable, and in fact is the method approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission, in graduating freight according to
value, to divide the particular subject of transportation into two
classes-those above and those below a fixed amount; and the
establishment of two cattle rates, one based on a maximum fixed
value and the other on the actual value, is not a violation of the
Carmack Amendment of the Hepburn Act.
The Carmack Amendment has withdrawn the determination of validity of all stipulations in interstate shipping contracts from state law
and legislation. Under that amendment the validity of a provision
that, suit must be brought within a specified period is a Federal
question to be settled by the general common law.
The liabilify imposed by the Carnack Amendment is that of the
common law and it may be limited or qualified by a special contract
wyith the shipper limiting it in a just and reasonable manner except
exemption from loss or responsibility due' to negligence; and so held
as to a stipulation that suit be brought within ninety days from the
happening of the loss.
Lilnitation of the time within which to bring actions is a usual and
reasonable provision and there is nothing in the policy of tle Carmack Amendmnent that is violated thereby.

THE facts, which involve the validity under the Carmack Amendment of .a contract for'interstate shipment of
YOL. CCXXVii-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

227 U. S.

live stock and a provision therein fixing the valuation of
the shipment in case of loss in consideration of a lower
rate, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alex. S. Coke, Mr. Joseph M. Bryson and Mr. Cecil
H. Smith for plaintiff in error submitted:
Under the act to regulate commerce A carrier may fix
its rates with reference to its liability, or the time within
which suit shall be brought, in case of loss or damage, increasing the rates where the liability is that fixed by coinmon law or the time for filing it is long and reducing them
where the liability is limited or the time within which to
sue is short.
Where tariffs duly issued, filed and published contain
two rates for the shipment of cattle, one based upon the
carrier's common-law liability with the statutory period
for filing suit and the other based upon a limited liability
with a time less than that prescribed by the statute for
suing, such provisions are binding upon the carrier and the
shipper and must be observed by them both in the collection and payment of charges and in the adjustment of
loss and damage claims. Kansas City So. By. Co. v.
Albers Comm. Co., 223 U. S. 573; N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R.
v. Int. Com. Comm., 200 U. S. 361, 391; Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56; Tex. & Pac. Ry. Co.
v. Mugg, 202 U. S. 242; Louisville & Nash. R. R. Co. v.
Motley, 219 U. S. 467; Chi. & All. R. R. Co. v. Kirby, 225
U. S. 155; Texas & P. R. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204
T. S. 426.

The courts, whether state or Federal, have no power to
declare unreasonable the rates, rules or regulations
specified by a carrier in its tariffs unless the matter shall
first have been presented to the Intertfale (onuere.
Commission. Texas (, 1. By. Co. v. AJbilne (otton Oil
Co., supra; Robinson v. Balto. & 0. IH. 1. (o., 222 U. S.
506; B. & 0. R. R. Co. v. Pitcairn Coal Co., 215 U. S. 480;

MO., KANS. & TEX. RY. v. HARRIMAN.
227 U. 8.

659

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Int. Com. Comm. v. Ill. Cent. Ry. Co., 215 U. S. 452; 1nl.
Com. Comm. v. C., R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 88.
Where a carrier specifies two rates on cattle in its
tariffs, one based upon its common-law liability and the
other upon a limited liability fixed by the terms and conditions of its current live stock contract, such live stock
contract, when properly executed, is valid, and the carrier's liability must be determined by its provisions.
There is nothing in the Carmack Amendment forbidding the basing of rates upon limited liability or prohibiting contracts limiting liability in consideration of reduced rates.
Prior to the statute of 11 Geo. IV, and 1 Win. IV, c. 68,
it was held that a carrier who had given notice that, he
would not be responsible for goods of greater value than
five pounds, and in some cases ten pounds, unless the
value was declared at the time of shipping, and the rate
paid accordingly, would not be liable at all, even for the
five pounds or the ten pounds, to a shipper who shipped
a package of greater value, as an ordinary package, without disclosing its real value. Gibbon v. Poynton, 4 Burr.
2298; Clay v. Willan, 1 H. Bl. 298; Izett v. Mountain, 4
East, 371; Batson v. Donovan, 4 B. & Ald. 21.
Under the statute 11 Geo. IV, and 1 Win. IV, c. 68,
which required the shipper to give notice of the value if
the value exceeded ten pounds, it was held that the carrier
is not liable, even if the loss happens by the gross negligence of his servants, where a parcel of greater value than
ten pounds is delivered without declaring its value and
paying the rate according to value. . Hinton v. Dibbin,
2 Ad. & E. N. S. 646.
Long prior to the passage of the Carinack Amendment
it was held that a contract fairly made, agreeing on the
valuation of the property carried with the freight rate
based on an assumption by the carrier of liability only to
the extent of the agreed valuation, evefA where the loss

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

227 U. S.

resulted from the negligence of the carrier, would be upheld. Hart v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 112 U. S. 331. This
rule has also been followed in Kidd v. Greenwich Insurance
Co., 35 Fed. Rep. 351; Calderon v. Atlas Steamship Co.,
64 Fed. Rep. 874; S. C., 69 Fed. Rep. 574; The Kensington, 88 Fed. Rep. 331; Jennings v. Smith, 106 Fed.
Rep. 139; Saunders v. Southern Railway, 128 Fed. Rep. 15;
Macfarlane v. Adonzs Express Co., 137 Fed. Rep. 982;
Missouri &c. Ry. of Texas v. Patrick, 144 Fed. Rep. 632;
Taylor v. Weir, 162 Fed. Rep. 585; Blackwell v. Southern
Pac. Co., 184 Fed. Rep. 489; Pierce Co. v. Wells-Fargo Co.,
189 Fed. Rep. 561; and approved in Liverpool Steam Co.
v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 442; Calderon v: Atlas
S. S. Co., 170 U. S. 272; The Kensington, 183 U. S. 263,
and Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Hughles, 19f U. S. 477.
For the cases in lie state courts of last resort adopting
the rule in the Hart Case, see Alair v. Railroad Companly,
53 Minnesota, 160; Douglas Co. v. Railiway Co., 62
hlinnesota, 288; 0'Mall(yl v. R7ilway Co., 86 Minnesota, 380;
Loeser v. Cticago, M. & St. P. I1!/. Co., 94 Wisconsin, 571;
Uliman v. Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 112 Wisconsin, 150;
Baltimore & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Hubbard, 72 Oh. St. 302.
: The main purpose of the Carmaek Amendment was to

give'the holder of the bill of lading a right of action against.
the initial carrier for loss caused by connecting carriers,
but it also creates a cause of act ion against the initial lint

which is in the nature of a right created by Federal law
to take the place of rights prior thereto existing under lhe
conimon law or under state enactments. Atlantic Coast
Line v. Rirerside Mills, 219 U. S. 186; So. Pac. Ry. Co. v.
Crenshaw, 63 S. E. Rep. 865.
The amendment has been frequently construed by state
courts and by inferior Federal courts as not prohibiting
agreements of the kind in question. (7reenwald V. Weir;199 N. Y. 170; Bernard v. Adams Express Co., 205 Massachusetts, 254; 'Pravis v. Wells-Fargo 79 N. J. L. 83; P, C.

MO., KANS. & TEX. RY. v. HARRIMAN.
227 U. S.

661

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Mitchell (Ind.), 91 N. E. Rep. 735;
Larsen v. Oregon S. L. R. Co. (Utah), 110 Pac. Rep. 983;
Frye v. Southern P. Ry. Co., 247 Illinois, 564; Fielder v.
Express Co. (W. Va.), 71 S. E. Rep. 99.
For cases under the Itarter Act, 27 Stat. 445, see Calderon v. Atlas S. S. Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 874; aff'd 69 Fed.
Rep. 574; id. 170 U. S. 272.
.Many States having statutory provisions restricting
the right of common carriers to limit their liability by
contract, nevertheless apply the rule of the Hart Case.
D'Arcy v. Adams Express Co., 162 Michigan, 363; Alair v.
Railroad Co., 53 Minnesota, 160; Douglas Co. v. Railway
Co., 62 Minnesota, 288; Oppenheimer v. U. S. Express Co.,
69 Illinois, 62: Johnstone v. Richmond & D. R. Co., 39
So. Car. 55.
No law or public policy of a State can serve to set aside
or change the rates, rules and regulations of a carrier
affecting interstate commerce specified in its duly issued,
filed and published tariffs. Mondou v. N. Y., N. If. & H.
R. R. Co., 223 U. S. 1.
Cojlgress has rightfully assumed jurisdiction of the

subject-lyatter, and therefore state laws coveriig ithe
same I'llst yield. Southern Ry. (a. v. Reid & Beam, 222
U. S. 444; Nor. Pac. Ry. Co. v. l'ashilagfon, 222 U. S. 370;
G., C- & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Hejly, 158 U. S. 98.
Co0gress has so taken- possession of the field of iiterstate 0°1anlerce as to render inoperative state laws gay-

ernijD u'ability where the liability is a lnatter of contract
base,,ul)h tariff provisions, in consideration of which
t e
was given a reduced rate.
of the state court that in this case there was
Th
f e Wing
in facet no 1'eduction in the rate at which the cattle were to
be c~ff q and no consideration for the limitation, in the
face ofr 11contradicted testimony showing that plaintiff'
in crtor (1d have two rates for the shipment of cattle
and f ' defendants in error obtained the benefit of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

227 U. S.

lower rate, which they could obtain only by executing the
contract limiting plaintiff in error's liability, is not binding
upon this court, but it will look to the whole testimony to
determine for itself what the fact is. K. C. So. Ry. Co.
v. C. H. Albers Comm. Co., 223 U. S. 573. To so construe the Carmack Amendment as to leave
state regulations in force concurrently with the regulations
of Congress would permit discrimination and leave uncertainty in a field where Congress clearly intended there
should be no discrimination and no uncertainty. C., M.
&c. Ry. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133, and Pennsylvania R.
R. Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477, distinguished.
Defendants in error, in declaring the value of their cattle
at less than their true value for the purpose of securing a
lower rate than they would have been charged had the
true value been declared, were guilty of an unlawful act,
under the Act to Regulate Commerce and the Elkins Act,
and they cannot maintain a suit based upon such transaction. Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56;
Ellison v. Adams Express Co., 245 Illinois, 410.
A transaction in violation of a penal statute cannot be
the basis of judicial action, unless the statute manifests
an intention not to limit its scope to the exaction of the
penalty. Miller v. Ammon, 145 U. S. 421; Brown v.
Tarkington, 3 Wall. 377; Hanauer v. Doane, 12 Wall. 342;
The Florida,'101 U. S. 37; Gibbs v. Baltimore Gas Co., 130
U. S. 396; McMullin v. Hoffman, 174 U. S. 639; Harriman
v. Northern Securities Co., 197 U. S. 244.
Mr. William A. Williams, with whom Mr. J. A. L.
Wolfe was on the b'ief, for defendants in error:
A carrier may fix its rates for interstate shipments with

reference to the service to be performed, and may adopt
rules and regulations concerning the same; but a shipper
will not be bound by a contract, which is invalid and prohibited by law, simply because the rate collected is con-

MO., KANS. & TEX. RY. v. HARRIMAN.
227 U. S.

663

Argument for Defendants in Error.

ditioned upon the signing of such void agreement. Drey
& Kahn Glass Co. v. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. (Mo. App.),
136 S. W. Rep. 757; O'Connor v. Great Northern Ry. Co.
(Minn.), 136 N. W. Rep. 743; Hooker v. Boston R. Co.
(Mass.), 95 N. E. Rep. 945; Adams Ex. Co. v. Mellinchamp (Ga.), 75 S. E. Rep. 600; Cramer v. Chicago, R. I.
& P. Ry. Co. (Iowa), 133 N. W. Rep. 387.
The Interstate Commerce Act was intended primarily
to regulate rates. The chief purpose of the act was to
secure uniformity of treatment to all, to suppress unjust
discriminations and undue preferences and to prevent
special and secret agreements in respect of rates for transportation. Kansas City S. R. Co. v. Albers Com. Co., 223
U. S. 573.
The record does not show that the live stock contract
was ever filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission,
or that any tariff sheet so filed contained the rules and
regulations relied on in this case.
Defendants in error did not misrepresent the value of
their cattle for the purpose of obtaining a lower freight
rate than they would-have secured if the true value had
been known.
Upon the general and local applicatory law, the special
contract, attempting to limit the carrier's liability for its
own negligence, and fiking an arbitrary and unreasonable value upon the cattle, was void. There is nothing in
the Interstate Commerce Act to prevent a state court
from enforcing its own rules upon this subject, and a
judgment based upon the state law as contained in its
statutes or decisions raises no Federal question. Pennsylvania Ry. Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477; Chicago, M. &
St. P. R. R. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133; Savage v. Jones,
225 U. S. 551.
For cases in the state courts as to the effect of the
Interstate Commerce Act and the decision in the Hughes
Case, supra, see Adams Express Co. v. Mellinchamp, 75

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

S. E. Rep. 596; Southern Express Co. v. Hanaw, 134
Georgia, 445; O'Connor v. Greqt Northern R. Co., 136
N. W. Rep. 743; Hooker v. Bosttn & M. R. Co., 95 N. E.
Rep. 945; Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Smith, 134 S.W. Rep.
866; Cramer v. Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co., 133 N. W. Rep.
387. See also Latta v. Chicago, St. P. & M. R. Co., 172
Fed. Rep. 850.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action in a state court of Texas by a shipper
of cattle, under a special live-stock transportation contract for a shipment from a point in Missouri to a point in
Oklahoma, to recover the value of cattle killed by a negligent derailment occurring in the former State. The shipment consisted of four bulls and thirteen cows, claimed to
have been very valuable "show cattle." They were all
killed, and plaintiffs recovered their full value, $10,640,
and this judgment was affirmed by the court below.
As the transaction was an interstate shipment the case
comes here upon questions which involve the validity of
certain provisions in the contract of shipment when tested
by the twentieth section of the Act to Regulate Commerce,
as amended by the act of June 29, 1906 (34 Stat. 584,
c. 3591).
Aside froni the question of negligence, which we assume
to be closed by the verdict and judgment in the state
court, the defenses pressed here are, first, that the limitation of value in case of loss or damage to 'thirty dollars
for each bull and twenty dollars for each cow, was a valid
declaration of the valuation upon which the rate was
based; and, second, that the action was not brought within
ninety days after. damage sustained, both being stipulations found in the shipping contract.
Those provisions 'inthe contract which directly relate
to the questions stated are as follows:
The title at the head of the contract
is,-

MO., KANS. & TEX. RY. v. HARRIMAN.
227 U. S.
"RULES

665

Opinion of the Court,
AND

REGULATIONS

FOR

THE TRANSPORTATION

OF LIVE STOCK.

NOTICE.
This Company has two rates on live stock."
Then follows a paragraph in these words:
"Ordinary Live Stock transported under this special
contract is accepted and hauled at rate named below at
owner's risk, as per conditions herein set forth, with the
distinct understanding that said rate is a special rate,
which is hereby agreed to, accepted and understood to be
at less than published tariff rate applying thereon when
transported at carrier's risk.
"All Kinds of Live Stock, Carrier's Risk, will be taken
under the provisions and at rates provided for by existing
tariffs and classification."
Then follows the contract described as "Special Live
Stock Contract No. 4. Executed at Pilot Grove Station,
1-30-1907."
Passing over a number of provisiohs concerning the
agreement upon the part of the carrier, and a number of
things which the shipper assumes to do, we come to § 8,
which is in these words:
"8. The carrier does not ship live stock or Emigrant
Outfit under this contract or at the rate hereon given upon
which its liability in case of any loss or injury, shall exceed
th following prices per head:
Each horse, (gelding, mare, stallion mule or jack) $100.00
Each pony or range horse....................30.00,
Each Ox, Steer or bull....................... 30.00
Each cow.................................
20.00
Each calf or hog.....
.................
7.00
Each sheep or goat....... .
.........
2.00
"'Emigrant Outfit (not live stock) consisting of Emigrant Movables, Household Goods, Second-hand Farm

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Machinery, etc., when loaded with live stock, as per
classification at valuation not to exceed $5.00 per 100
pounds in case of loss or damage, and said shipper represents Md agrees that his said live stock or emigrant
outfit do not exceed in value those prices, and in case of
any loss or damage thereto, by carrier's negligent transportation, or handling of said cars as aforesaid, it is mutually agreed, in consideration of the rate named, and
which is less than the rate applying on shipments at
carrier's risk, the shipper shall be entitled to recover
only
actual damages, but in no instance more than the stipulated valuation shown above."
The provision of the published tariff sheet referred to in
the contract is set out in the margin, preceded by the offer
of counsel to file it in evidence.' By a clause in the ninth
Mr. Head: We offer the following portions of 1. C. C. tariff No.
A-1636, M. K. & T. Local Distance Tariff No. 2548 applying on classes
and commodities:
MISSOURI, KANSAS

& TEXAS

THE 'KATY'

RAILWAY CO.

ROUTE.

Local -Distance Tariff No. 2548.
(Cancels No. 737.)
Applying on classes and commodities between stations on the Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. as follows:
Between Stations in
And Stations in
Indian Territory
Oklahoma Territory
Missouri or Kansas
Indian Territory
Missouri or Kansas
Oklahoma Territory
And locally between Stations in the Indian or Oklahoma Territories.
Rates in Cents Per 100 lbs.
CATTLE (See Rule 3)
Distance
Commodities
Carloads.
380 miles and over 370 ..................................... 26Y2
Rule 3.
LIVE STOCK-Continued.
Limitation of Liability.-Rates provided on Live Stock will apply
only on shipments made at Owner's Risk, with limitation of liability
on the part of the railroad company as common carrier under the terms
and conditions of the current Live Stock contract provided by this

MO., KANS. & TEX. RY. v. HARRIMAN.
227 U. S.

667

Opinion of the Court.

section of the contract under which the cattle were shipped
it is stipulated that "no suit shall be brought against any
carrier, and only against the carrier on whose line the
injuries occur, after the lapse of 90 days from the happening thereof, any statute or limitation to the contrary notwithstanding."
In respect of the two stipulations just referred to, the
trial judge charged the jury as follows:
"The contract of shipment in this case contains among
other things, a stipulation that suit for any damages
growing out of this shipment must be commenced within
ninety days. You are instructed that such stipulation is
void and not binding upon the plaintiffs herein.
"Said contract also contains a stipulation to the effect
that if the cattle in the shipment are lost or killed, that
their owners can only recover a certain fixed amount,
which amount is named in said contract. You are instructed that such stipulation is Void and not binding
upon plaintiffs in this case, and if you should find for
plaintiffs, you will fix the amount of their damages under
instructions hereinafter given you."
This charge. was approved upon appeal and the judgment affirmed. The ground upon which the charge in
respect to' the limitation of recovery in case of loss was
based was first, that every such contract, where the loss
was due to negligence, was null and void under the law
and public policy of the State; and, second, that it was a
contract of exemption forbidden by the .Hepburn Act of
.June 29, 1906, being the -Carmack Amendment of the
company, the contract to

he first duly executed in manner and form

provided therein.
12(Y per cent. of the rates named in this tariff will be charged on

shipment, made without limitations of carrier's liability at common
law and under this status, shippers will have the choice of executing
and a(epting contracts for shipments of Live Stock with or without

limitation of liability, the rates to be made as provided for herein.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opiniori of the Court.

227 U. S.

twentieth section of the general act to regulate commerce
of February 4, 1887. (24 Stat. 379, c. 104.)
That the shipper had the choice of two rates, one twenty
per cent. higher than the other, upon this shipment, is
shown by the provisions of the shipping, contract and the
tariff sheets referred to therein. That the difference between the two rates was not unreasonable, the one when
the cattle were not valued and the other when their value
was declared, is to ble assumed from the acceptance of the
rates as filed with the Commission. That the "portion"
of the rate sheets in evidence does not include the "Current Live Stock Contract" referred to in the part filed, is
of no vital significance. The objection was not made below. The case was proceeded with in the state court upon
the hypothesis that the "Current Live Stock Contract,"
referred to in the "portion" of the rate sheets actually in
evidence, was the live stock contract executed by the
parties, and had been duly filed as part of the rate sheets.
It is too late to make an objection here which, if made
below, might have been remedied by filing all instead of
a "portion" of the filed tariff. Texas & P. Railway v.
Abilene Oil Co., 204 U. S.426. In any event the rate sheets
do provide for a choice between two rates, one with and
one without a declared valuation. In one case the carrier
is liable for whatever loss or damage the shipper sustains
and in the other its liability is limited to the valuation
upon which the rate was based. The ground upon which
the shipper is limited to the valuation declared is that of
estoppel, and presupposes the valuation to be one made for
the purpose of applying the lower of two rates based upon
the value of the cattle. This whole matter has been so
fully considered in Adams Express Company v. Croninger,
226 U. S.491, and Kansas City Southern Railway v. Carl,
just decided, that we only need to refer to the opinions in
those cases without further elaboration.
That the trial court and the Court of Civil Appeals

MO., KANS. & TEX. RY. v. HARRIMAN.
227 U.S.

669

Opinion of the Court.

erred in holding this stipulation null and void because
forbidden by either the law or policy of the State of Texas,
or by the twentieth section of the act of June 29, 1906,
is no longer an open question since the decisions of this
court in the cases just referred to.
Nor is there anything upon the face of this contract,
when read in connection with the rate sheets referred to
therein, (of which the defendants in error were compelled
to take notice not only because referred to in the contract
signed by them, bu' because they had been lawfully filed
and published), which offends against the provisions of
the twentieth section .of the act of June 29, 1906.
Neither is the valuation of cattle at thirty and twenty
dollars per head subject to impeachment as upon its face
arbitrary and unreasonable. The valuation in this case
was made by the consignor himself. The contract upon
this point reads, "And said shipper represents and agrees
that his said live stock
.
. do not exceed in value
those prices," referring to the schedule set out immediately above that declaration. That the cattle were not
other than average or ordinary cattle of no peculiar value.
as "show cattle," or otherwise,, is indicated by the character of the printed form of contract signed by the consignor. After reciting that the company h~d two rates on
live stock, it proceeds,-" Ordinary live stock transported
under this special contract," etc.
The contract here involved is substantially identical
with the contract and schedule upheld in Hart v. Pennsylvania Railroad, 112 U. S. 331, where the transportation
was "on the condition that the carrier assumes a liability
on the stock to the extent of the following agreed valuation: 'If horses or mules, not exceeding two hundred
dollars each. If cattle or cows, not exceeding seventyfive dollars each."'
In the case at bar it has been said that the shipper was
not asked to state the value, but only tigned the contract

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

handed to him and made no declaration. But the same
point was made in the Hart Case, when the court said
(p. 337):
"A distinction is sought to be drawn between a case
where a shipper, on requirement, states the value of the
property, and a rate of freight is fixed accordingly, and
the present case. It is said, that, while in the former case
the shipper may be confined to the value he so fixed, in
the event of a loss by negligence, the same rule does not
apply to a case where the valuation inserted in the contract is not a valuation previously named by the shipper.
But we see no sound reason for this distinction. The
valuation named was the 'agreed valuation,' the one on
which the minds of the parties met, however it came to be
fixed, and the rate of freight was based on that valuation,
and was fixed on condition that such was the valuation,
and that the liability should go to that extent and no
further."
It is said that the contract in the case at bar includes a
valuation of all bulls and all cows at the same sum, and
that this is arbitrary and not the result of any real effort
to value the particular bulls and cows to be transported.
But the same objection applied to the contract in the Hart
Case, where horses were valued at the same maximum
value and other cattle at the same fixed sum. But here,,
as there, it is plain that all animals, horses and other
cattle, have not a fixed value, and so, the contract fixes
"a graduated value according to the nature of the animal."
It is not unreasonable for the purpose of graduating
freight according to value to divide the particular subject
of transportation into two classes, those above and those
below a fixed maximum amount. No other method is
practicable, and this is a method administratively approved by the Commerce Commission.
That the value of the cattle shipped under this valuation
did greatly exceed the valuation therein represented, may

\ 0., KANS. & 'rI,.
_,27 k.

RY. v. HARRIMAN.

671

Opinion of the Court.

be trae. f, only serves to show that the shipper obtained
, lwer rate than he was lawfully entitled to have by a
.,wsrepresentation. It is neither just nor equitable that he
:,l benefit by the lower rate, and then recover for a
v~hue which he said did not exist, in order to obtain that
rate. Having obtained a rate based upon the declared
vwiue, he is concluded, ad there is no room for parol
S!Vlcence to show otherwise. Hart v. Pennsylvania Railrnad and Kansas City &c. Railroadv. Carl, supra.
Wh' n the carrier graduates its rates by value and has"
"i1.d its tariffs showing two rates applicable to a particular
tmmodity or class of articles, based upon a difference in
uduation, he shipper must take ilotice, for the valuation
automatically determines which of the rates is the lawful
rate. If he knowingly declares an undervaluation for the
)urpose of obtaining the lower of two published rates, he
,hereby obtains an advantage and causes a discrimination
forbidden and made unlawful by the first section of the
Elkins Act of February 19, 1.903 (32 Stat. 847, c. 708).
T,,.x'3 & P. Railway v. Mugg,202 U. S. 242; Chicago & A.
Railway v. Kirby, 225 U. S. 155. The particular cattle
,vre loaded by the -shipper and were never seen by the
fompany's agent. Neither was it claimed that he was
informed of the value or quality of the cattle to be shipped.
W'e see no ground upon which this contract can be held
upon its face to have offended against the statute.
The court below held that the stipulation in the shipping
uontract that no suit shall. be brought after the lapse of
ninety days from the happening of any loss or damage,
any statute or limitation to the contrary notwithstanding," was void.
It is conceded that there are statutes in Missouri, the
8tate of the making of the contract, and the State in
which the loss and damage occurred, and in Texas, the
State of the forum, which declare contracts invalid which
require the bringing of an action for a carrier's liability

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

in less, than the statutory period, and that this action,
though started after the lapse of the time fixed by the
contract was brought within the statutory period of both
States.
The liability sought to be enforced is the "liability" of
an interstate carrier for loss or damage under an interstate contract of shipment declared by the Carmack
Amendment of the Hepburn Act of June 29, 1906 The
validity of any stipulation in such a contract which ino
volves the construction of the statute, and the validity
of a limitation upon the liability thereby imposed is a
Federal question to be determined under the general
common law, and, as such, is withdrawn from the field of
state law or legislation. Adams Express Co. v. Croninger,
226 U. S. 491; Michigan Central Railroad v. Vreeland,
ante, p. 59. The liability imposed by the statute is the liability imposed by the common law upon a common carrier, and may be limited or qualified by special contract
with the shipper, provided the limitation or qualification
be just and reasonable, and does not exempt from loss or
responsibility due to negligence. Adams Express Company
v. Croninger,-and Michigan Central Railroad v. Vrecland,
cited above; York Co. v. Central Railroad Co., 3 Wall. 107;
Railroad Company v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357; Expres"s
Company v. Caldwell, 21 Wall. 264, 267; Hart v. Pennsylvania Railroad, 112 U. S.331.
The policy of statutes of limitation is to encourage
promptness in the bringing of actions, that the parties
shall not suffer by loss of evidence from death or disappearance of witnesses, destruction of documents or failure
of memory. But there is nothing in the policy or object,
of such statutes which forbids the parties to an agreement
to provide a shoiter period, provided the time is not unreasonably short. That is a question of law for the determination of the court. Such stipulations have been sustained in insurance policies. Riddlesbarger v. Hartford

MO., KANS. & TEX. RY. v. HARRIMAN.
';?7 US.

673

Opinion of the Court.

Ioroime Co., 7 Wall. 386, A stipulation that an express
:np ' :Blould not be held liable unless claim was made
wvikin
days after a 'oss was held good in Express
cilety
(in
puny v.Caldwell, 21 Wall. 264. Such limitations ini
iLs of lading are very cititoinary and have been upheld
n1 ), AMilitude of cases. -c cite a few: Central Vermont
IFdiiroad v. 2oper (1st C. C. Ak), 59 Fed. Rep. 379; Ginn
v,Ogdensburg Transit Co. (7th C. C. A.), 85 Fed. Rep. 985;
Cox v. Central Vermont Railroa d, 170 Massachusetts, 129;
'\ror~h British &. [nsurance Co. v. Central Vermont Railroad, 9 App. Div. (N. Y.) 4, aff'd 158 N. Y. 726. Before
the Texis and Missouri sta-Atutes forbidding siuch special
entracs, sbort limitations, 41 bills of lading were held to
,evalid and enforceable. iicCarty v. Gulf &c. Ry., 79
83; Thompson v. Chicq, &c. y, 22 Mo. Alp. 321.
3as.
See easos to same effect eiid in 6 Cyc., p. 508. The
provision requiring suit to be brought withii ninety days
is not unreasonable.
lF'or the errors indicated, i.h
i judgment ioust be'reversed
II)r eu,,A. farther proceednigs:
may be consistent with
Y.:ihis opinion.
iVAiit. ,JUsTICE 1UGHEb co.cturs in the
ric i r.N
dissents.

esult. I/fit ,us-

