OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

227 U. S.

WILLIAM A. ENSIGN v. COMMONWEALTH OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
CHARLES A. ENSIGN v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
Noi. 123, 124.

Argued January 20, 1913.--Decided February 24, 1913.

The Fifth Amendment is not obligatory upon the States or their
judicial establishments, and regulates the procedure of Federal
courts only. Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78.
A violation of defendant's rights under a provision in the state constitution which is identical to one in the Federal Constitution which is
only obligatory on the Federal courts, does not infringe a Federal
right.
The word "testimony" more properly refers to oral evidence than to
documentary, and it is reasonable that a distinction should be made
between the two.
The prohibition in § 9 of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898 against offering
testimony given by the bankrupt in accordance with the provisions
of that section as evidence in any criminal proceeding applies only
to the testimony and not to the schedules referred to therein.
Rev. Stat., § 860, prohibiting the use of a pleading of a party or discovery of evidence by judicial proceeding against him in a criminal proceeding, while in force, was limited by its own terms to proceedings
in the Federal courts and does not apply to one in the state court.
Evidence showing the results of an expert examination of the bankrupt's
books is not "testimony" within the meaning of § 9 of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898.
Quaere, and not necessary to determine in this case, whether the prohibition in § 9 of the Bankruptcy Act against using testimony of the
bankrupt is not limited to criminal proceedings in the Federal courts
and does not apply to such proceedings in the state courts.
228 Pa. St. 400, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the question whether schedules
filed by the bankrupt are, under the Fifth Amendment to

ENSIGN v. PENNSYLVANIA.
227 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

the Federal Constitution and the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act, admissible in a criminal trial of the bankrupt
in the state court, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John B. Brooke, with whom Mr. Charles H. English
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The statement made by the aqcountant, from the books
of the bank, which had been turned over to the trustee in
bankruptcy, was improperly admitted.
If a bankrupt obeys the Bankruptcy Law, he will file
schedules and turn over his books and papers to the
trustee and obey all other lawful orders of the referee. If
he does not do these things as directed by the United
States statute and general orders made by the United
States Supreme Court for the government of bankrupts,
he can be declared in contempt of court and imprisoned,
and when the United States law compels an individual to
file schedules and turn over his books and papers, the use
of these schedules and these books against him in a criminal trial is a violation of his rights under the Constitution
of the United States and the constitution of the State of
Pennsylvania. Amendment V of the United States Constitution; Matter of Fellerman, 17 Am. Bankr. Reps. 785;
Jacobs v. United States Circuit Court of Appeals, First Circuit, 161 Fed. Rep. 694; United States v,. Marsh Chambers,
13 Am. Bankr. Reps. 708; Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S.
616, 752; Johnsonv. UnitedStates, 163 Fed. Rep. 30; Cohen
v. United States, 170 Fed. Rep. 715; Burrel v. State of Montana, 194 U. S. 572.
Mr. W. Pitt Gifford, with whom Mr. .1. Orin Wait and
Mr. U. P. Rossiter were on the brief, for defendant in
error:
Generally speaking, and in the absence of statutory
regulation on the subject, testimony and written statements, voluntarily given or made by a party or witness in
VoL. ((xXVIt -- 38

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

227 U. S.

a judicial pro66eding, are, as admissions and confessions,
competent against him on the trial of any issue in a criminal case to which they are pertinent; and statements
made by a party in a judicial inquiry are cohsidered voluntary, if he might have objected to answering on the
ground that it would incriminate him, and failed to do so.
Wharton's Crim. Evidence, § 664; 1 Roscoe, Crim. Evidence, 8th ed., pp. 82, 245; 1 Greenleaf on Evidence
§ 225; Williams v. Commonwealth, 29 Pa. St. 102; Hendrickson v. People, 10 N. Y. 13; Commonwealth v. Reynolds,
122 Massachusetts, 454; Vermont v. Duncan, 4 L. R. A.
(N. S.) 1144 n.; People v. Wieger, 100 California, 352;
People v. Arnold, 40 Michigan, 710; Abbott v. People, 75
N. Y. 602; Commonwealth v. Doughty, 139 Pa. St. 383;
Commonwealth v. House, 6 Pa. Super. 92; Burrell v. Montana, 194 U. S. 572.
A written statement of the defendant, when prepared
deliberately and seriously, is not only admissible in evidence against him, but is of weight proportioned to its
pertinency. Wharton's Crim. Evidence, § 643, 8th ed.;
1 Greenleaf, § 215, Lewis's ed.
That bankrupts situated as these plaintiffs in error were,
might have refused to answer, on the ground of selfincrimination, has been expressly ruled. Counselman v.
Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547; Re Nachman, 8 Am. Bankr.
Reps. 180; In re Feldstein, 4 Am. Bankr. Reps. 32; In re
Welsh, 4 Am. Bankr. Reps. 693; In re Henschell, 7 Am.
Bankr. Reps. 207; In re Shera, 7 Am. Bankr. Reps. 552;

In re Smith, 7 Am. Bankr. Reps. 213; In re Kanter, 117 Fed.
Rep. 356; United States v. Goldstein, 132 Fed. Rep. 789.
. No distinction is to be found, in principle, between refusing to answer questions or giYe testimony as required
by § 7a of the Bankruptcy Act, on the ground of selfincrimination, and refusing to file schedules or turn over
books of accounts as required by the same section of the
Bankruptcy Act on the ground of incrimination.

ENSIGN v. PENNSYLVANIA.
227 U. S.

Argument for befendant in Error.

While upon an application to compel a bankrupt to
produce his books and deliver them to his trustee, the plea
of constitutional privilege must prevail, yet he should
be required to bring the books and papers which he alleges contained incriminating evidence before either the
court or the referee in bankruptcy, and if it appears that
his plea is well founded, the court can make such order
as will fully protect him from discovery of such evidence,
and if possible enable the trustee to obtain such information as is necessary and indispensable in the settlement of
the estate. In re Hess, 134 Fed. Rep. 109; In re Hark, 136
Fed. Rep. 986; In re Harris, 164 Fed. Rep. 292.
Having offered no such objection, clearly, therefore, their
acts in filing their schedules and delivering the books of
account were voluntary; they could not thereafter set
up the protection of the Constitution, either Federal or
state, which they had so unequivocally waived. Tucker
v. United States,-151 U. S. 164.
If freely given once, the evidence may of course be
used thereafter, for the privilege is purely personal and
may be waived. See also Tracy & Co., 23 Am. Bankr.
Reps. 438. Matter of Fellerman, 17 Am. Bankr. Reps.
785, which involved no question of constitutional privilege, distinguished. See also Glassner, Snyder & Co., 8
Am. Bankr. Reps. 184; George P. Rosser, 2 Am. Bankr.
Reps. 746; In re Kanter, 117 Fed. Rep. 356.
The time to claim the privilege is when the testimony is
offered or book or document is about to be inspected, and
if not then claimed, it is waived. Remington on Bankruptcy, § 1561; Tracy & Co., 23 Am. Bankr. Reps. 438;
Burrell v. Montana, 194 U. S. 572; Kerrch Bros. v. United
States, 171 Fed. Rep. 366; United States v. Halstead, 27
Am. Bankr. Reps. 302; Matter of Tracy & Co., 23 Am.
Bankr. Rep. 438; Strait v. State, 84 Minnesota, 384; In re
Harris,221 U. S. 274; Adams v. New York, 192 U. S. 585;
Re Nachman, 8 Am. Bankr. Reps. 180.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Johnson v. United States, 20 Am. Bankr. Reps. 724;
United States v. Chambers, 13 Am. Bankr. Reps. 708;
United States v. Cohen, 170 Fed. Rep. 715; Burrell v.
Montana, 194 U. S. 572; Jacobs v. United Stdt'es, 161 Fed.
Rep. 694; Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, distinguished.
With reference to the construction of § 7 of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898, cl. 8 provides for the filing of schedules;
cl. 9 for the bankrupt's examination at the first creditor's
meeting, or as the court may order. The proviso, but no
testimony given by him shall be offered in evidence aga inst
him in any criminal proceeding, is a part of 0l. 9, and
clearly refers only to the bankrupt's examination., The
schedules and books of account are not to be considered
"testimony," under § 7a, el. 9. "Testimony" is confined
to oral evidence or the statements made by a witness
under oath. Bouvier's Law Diet.; 28 Am. & Eng. Encycl.
of Law.
No definition of the word "testimony" is broad enough
to include pleadings or other papers filed in the case previous to the trial or hearing. Johnson v. United States, 20
Am. Bankr. Reps. 724.
Had Congress intended to include in said provision all
information furnished by the bankrupt, it could easily have
so stated, by providing that no testimony or informiation
given by him shall be offered against him in evidence in
any criminal proceeding.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

There are two writs of error, but a single record. The
plaintiffs in error were jointly indicted in the Court of
Quarter Sessions of Erie County, Pennsylvania, under an
act of May 9,1889 (1. L. 1889, Act 172, p. 145), " elating
to the receiving of deposits 1y insolvent ):innkers, vci,..
defining the offense, Mnd providing a l)unishinflt there-

ENSIGN v. PENNSYLVANIA.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for." It appears that they were engaged together in business as private bankers in the Borough of North East,
Pennsylvania, for a long time prior to February 12, 1908;
that on that day they received from the prosecuting witness a deposit of one thousand dollars; that on the fifteenth
of February they closed their banking house, and on the
seventeenth made an assignment for the benefit of their
creditors; that they were shortly thereafter thrown into
involuntary bankruptcy, and schedules were filed by them
in the bankruptcy proceeding. The receipt of the deposit of February twelfth was made the basis of the indictment.
Upon the trial the Commonwealth offered in evidence,
and the court admitted, against the objection of the defendants, the schedules filed by them in the bankruptcy
proceeding, and the testimony of an expert accountant
based upon an examination of their banking books, which
they had turned over to the trustee. The trial court, and,
on successive appeals, the Superior Court and the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania (40 Pa. Superior Ct. 157, 163;
228 Pa. St. 400), overruled the contentions of the plaintiffs
in error that their rights under the Constitution and laws
of the United States were infringed by the admission of the
evidence referred to, and so they bring the case here.
Article V of Amendments to the Federal Constitution is
invoked, which provides (inkor alia)-"No person .
shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness
against himself." But, as has been often reiterated, this
Amendment is not obligatory upon the governments of the
several States or their judicial establishments, and regulates the procedure of the Federal courts only. Barron
V. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243; Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131,
166; Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172; Barrington v.
Missouri, 205 U. S. 483; Twining.v. New Jersey, 211 U. S.
78, 93.
We are referred to a similar prohibition in Art. T, § 9, of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

the constitution of Pennsylvania; but, even if the trial of
the plaintiffs in error proceeded in disregard of this provision, no Federal right wa thereby infringed.
The only debatable question is that which is based upon
the provisions of § 7 of the Federal Bankruptcy Act of
July 1, 1898 (chap. 541, § 7; 30 Stat. 544, 548), which
reads as follows:
"Duties of Bankrupts:-a. The bankrupt shall (1)
attend the first meeting of his creditors, if directed by the
court or a judge thereof to do so, and the hearing upon
his application for a discharge, if filed; (2) comply with
all lawful orders of the court; (3) examine the correctness
of all proofs of claims filed against his estate; (4) execute
and deliver such papers as shall be ordered by the court;
(5) execute to his trustee transfers of all his property in
foreign countries; (6) immediately inform his trustee of
any attempt, by his creditors or other persons, to evade
the provisions of this Act, coming to his knowledge; (7)
i.ncase of any person having to his knowledge proved a
false claim against his estate, disclose that fact immediately to his trustee; (8) pregare, make oath to, and file
in court, within ten days, unless further time is granted,
after the adjudication, if an involuntary bankrupt, and
with the petition if a voluntary bankrupt, a schedule of
his property, showing the amount and kind of property,
the location thereof, its money value in,detail, and a list
of his creditors, showing their residences, if known, if unknown, that fact to be stated, the amounts due each of
them, the consideration thereof, the security held by them,
if any, and a claim for such exemptions as he may be entitled to, all in triplicate, one copy of each for the clerk,
one for the referee, and one for the trustee; and (9) when
present at the first meeting of his creditors, and at such
other times as the court shall order, submit-to an examination concerning the conducting of his business, the
cause of his bankruptcy, his (le-liligs with his creditors

ENSIGN v. PENNSYLVANIA.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and other persons, the amount, kind, and whereabouts of
his property, and, in addition, all matters which may affect-the administration and settlement of his estate; but
no testimony given by him,.shall be offered in evidence
against him in any criminal proceeding: Provided, however,
that he shall not be required to attend a meeting of his
creditors, or at or for an examination at a place more than
one hundred and fifty-miles distant from his home or principal place of business, or to examine claims except when
presented to him, unless ordered by the court, or a judge
thereof, for cause shown, and the bankrupt shall be paid
his actual expenses from the estate when examined or required to attend at any place other than the city, town, or
village of his residence."
The reliance of the plaintiffs in error, of course, is upon
that part of clause 9 of the section which declares-" but
no testimony given by him shall be offered in evidence
against him in any criminal proceeding." It is insisted
that, in accordance with the spirit of the Fifth Amendment,
this should be construed as applying to the schedule required to be prepared, sworn to and filed by the bankrupt
under the provisions of the 8th clause. But as a matter
of mere interpretation, we deem it clear that it is only the
testimony given upon the examination of the bankrupt
under clause 9 that is prohibited from being offered in
'evidence against him in a criminal proceeding. The
schedule referred to in the 8th clause, and the oath
of the
bankrupt verifying it, are to be "filed in court," and,
therefore, are of course to be in writing. The word
"testimony" more properly refers to oral evidence. It
was. reasonable for Congress to make a distinction between the schedule, which may presumably be prepared
at leisure and scrutinized by the bankrupt with care before
he verifies it, and the testimony that he is to give when he
submits to'an examination at a meeting of creditors or at
other times pursuant to the order of the court; a proceed-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

ing more or less unfriendly and inquisitorial, as well as
summary, and in which it may be presumed that even an
honest bankrupt might, through confusion or want of
caution, be betrayed into making admissions that he
would not deliberately make. Full effect can be given
to the clause "but no testimony given by him shall be
offered in evidence against him in any criminal proceeding" by confining it to the testimony given under clause 9,
to which the words in question are immediately subjoined.
And we think that proper interpretation requires their effect to be thus limited.
We are referred to Johnson v. United States, 163 Fed.
Rep. 30, and Cohen v. United States, 170 Fed. Rep. 715.
But these were both prosecutions in the Federal courts on
indictments for fraudulently concealing property belonging to the bankrupt's estate; and the decision in each
case was rested upon Rev. Stat., § 860 (U. S. Comp. Stat.,
1901, p. 661), which declares that "No pleading of a
party,) nor any discovery or evidence obtained from a
party or witness by means of a judicial proceeding in this
or any foreign country, shall be given in evidence, or in
any manner used against him or his property or estate, in
any court of the United States, in any criminal proceeding,
or for the enforcement of any penalty or forfeiture; provided, that this section shall not exempt any party or
witness from prosecution and punishment for perjury
committed in discovering or testifying as aforesaid.!'
This section (since repealed by act of May 7, 1910,
c. 216; 36 Stat. 352), was in force at the time of the trial
of plaintiffs in error; but by its own terms it is limited to
criminal proceedings "in any court of the United States,"
and constitutes no limitation upon the procedure of the
state courts.
For the reasons given, it seems to us clear that the
plaintiffs in error were not entitled to have the bankruptcy
schedules excluded from evidence, because those schedules

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. SCHUYLER.
227 U. S.

Syllabus.

were not withii the description of "testimony" in the
clause quoted from § 7 of the Bankruptcy Act.
And for like reasons, the evidence showing the results
of an expert examination of the books of the bankers was
also admissible.
This conclusion renders it unnecessary for us to consider whether the prohibition with which we have dealt,
that "no testimony given by him shall be offered in
evidence against him in any criminal proceeding" is not
limited to criminal proceedings in the Federal courts; and
upon this question we express no opinion.
Judgments affirmed.
SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. SCHUYLER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.

No. 143.

Argued January 23, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

Whether the anti-pass provision of the HepburnAct prohibits a carrier
from giving free interstate transportation to employ6s:of the Railway Mail Service when not on duty but traveling for their own benefit, is a Federal question.
One holding a government commission that entitles him to free interstate railway transportatiorr while on duty and who while not on
duty enters a train, relying on such commission and with the consent,
of the officials in charge of the train, and remains thereon with their
consent, isnot a trespasser evenl if in so doing he violates the anti-pass
provision of the Hepburn law.
Whether the relation of carrier and passenger arises in the case of one
traveling gratuitously in violation of the anti-pass provision of the
llepburn Act, in the: absence of any Federal statute regulating the
imatter, is a question not of Federal, but of state, law.
Where the decision of the state court adverse to plaintiff in error proceeds upon two independent grounds, one of which does not involve
a Federal question and is sufficient to support it, the writ of error will
be-dismissed or the judgment affirmed according to circumstances.
On writ of error to a state court, while this court does not ordinarily
review findings of fact, if a Federal right has beeu denied -as the
result of a finding of fact which is without support in the evidence,

