OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

It is as lawful for one corporation to make every part of a
steam engine and to put the machine together as it would
be for one to make the boilers and another to make the
wheels. Until the one intent is nearer accomplishment
than it is by such a juxtaposition alone, no intent could
raise the conduct to the dignity of an attempt. See Virtue
v. Creamery Package Manufacturing Co., ante, p. 8. Swift
& Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 396.
It was argued as an afterthought that the act of March 2,
1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246, under which the United
States took this writ of error, was repealed by the Judicial Code of March 3, 1911, c. 231. 36 Stat. 1087,
1168. But it is not mentioned among the statutes expressly repealed by § 297 of the latter act, it is not superseded by any other regulations of the matter, it is a special
provision, and on principles similar to those discussed in
Ex parte United States, Petitioner, 226 U. S. 420, it must
be held not to have been repealed. See further Johnson v.
United States, 225 U. S. 405, 419; Petriv. Creelman Lumber Co., 199 U. S. 487, 497.
Judgment affirmed.

ST. LOUIS SOUTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY OF TEXAS v. ALEXANDER.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW' YORK

No. 738. Submitted December 2, 1912.-Decided February 3, 1913.
In order to hold a corporation personally liable in a foreign jurisdiction it must appear that the corporation was within the jurisdiction and that process was duly served upon one of its authorized
agents.

ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. v. ALEXANDER.
227 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

A corporation is not amenable to service of process in a foreign juris..
diction unless it is transacting business therein to such an extent as
to subject itself to the jurisdiction and laws thereof.
Under the Carmack Amendment the initial carrier is not liable to suit
in a foreign district unless it is carrying on business in the sense which
would render other foreign corporations amenable to process.
No all embracing rule has been laid down as to what constitutes the
manner of doing business by a foreign corporation to subject it to
process in a given jurisdiction. Each case must be determined by
its own facts.
The business done by a'foreign corporation must be such in character
and extent as to warrant the inference that it has subjected itself
to the jurisdiction.
Where a railroad company establishes an office in a foreign district
and its agents there attend to claims presented for settlement, as
was done in this case, it is carrying on business to such an extent
as to render it amenable to process under the law of that State.
Service of process on a resident director of a foreign corporation actually doing business in the State of New York is sufficient to give
the court jurisdiction of the corporation.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Carmack Amendment as to the place where the initial carrier may be sued, and also as to what constitutes carrying
on business within a district so as to make the initial
carrier amenable to process therein, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Lawrence Greer and Mr. F. C. Nicodemus, Jr., for
plaintiff in error:
The requirements of due process of law forbid that a
corporation be held amenable to service of process in a
foreign jurisdiction unless engaged in business therein of
such character and in such a manner and to such an extent as to bring itself within the jurisdiction so that
service of process upon an agent directly representing the
authority of the corporation would constitute reasonable
notice to the corporation to appear and defend. J3ank of
Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519; Barrow Steamship Co. v.
Kane, 170 U. S. 100; Conley v. Mathieson Alkali Works,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

227 U. S.

190 U. S. 46; Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Co.. v.
Spratley, 172 U. S. 602; Denver & Rio Grande R. R. Co. v.
Roller,, 100 Fed. Rep. 738; Earle v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry.
Co., 127 Fed. Rep. 235; Ex parte Schollenberger, 96 U. S.
369; Fairbank & Co. v. Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas
Pac. Ry. Co., 54 Fed. Rep. 420; Fitzgerald & Mallory Construction Co. v. Fitzgerald, 137 U. S. 98; Geer v. Mathieson
Alkali Works, 190 U. S. 428; Green v. C., B. & Q. Ry. Co.,
205 U. S. 530; Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 518;
Herndon-CarterCo. v. Norris, Son & Co., 224 U..S. 496;
In re Hohorst, Petitioner, 150 U. S. 653; Lafayette Ins. Co.
v. French, 18 How. 405; Maxwell v. Atchison, Topeka &
_Santa Fe R. R. Co., 34 Fed. Rep. 286; Mechanical Appliance Co. v. Castleman, 215 U. S. 437; Merchants' Mfg.
Co. v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 13 Fed. Rep. 358; Mexican
Central Ry. Co. v. Pinkney, 149 U. S. 194; New England
Mutual Life Ins. Co v. Woodworth, 111 U. S. 138; Pennsylvania Lumbermen's Ins. Co. v. Meyer, 197 U. S. 407;
Peterson v. Chic., Rock Island & Pac. Ry. Co., 205 U. S.
364; Societe Fonciere,et Agricole des Etats Unis v. Milliken,
135 U. S. 304; St. Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350; Tuchband v.
Chic. & Alton R. R. Co., 115 N. Y. 437; Union Associated
Press v. Times-Star Co., 84 Fed. Rep. 419.
Although engaged in business within the State of New
York, and elsewhere throughout the United States, in the
usual and customary course of interstate commerce conducted in obedience to the provisions of the act of Congress regulating trade and commerce among the several
States, the plaintiff in error is not engaged in business
within the State of New York, so as to be amenable to
service of process therein. Conley v. Mathieson Alkali
Works, 190 U. S. 46; Pennsylvania Lumbermen's Ins. Co.
v. Meyer, 197 U. S. 407; § 1, act of Congress approved
February 4, 1887, as am, nded by act of Congress approved
J:ine 10, 1910; § 20, act of Congress approved February 4,
1887, as amended by act of Congress approved January 20,

ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. v. ALEXANDER.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1906; Allen v. Pullman Co., 191 U. S. 171; Hall v. DeCuir,
95 U. S. 485; Pullman Co. v. Adams, 189 U. S. 420.
Mr. Phelan Bcalc for defendant in error:
The cause of action herein arose within the Stato of
New York and certain acts were to be performed there
which bring the case within the purvidw of Pennsylvania
Lumbermen's Ins. Co. V. Meyer; 197 U. S. 407, therefore
the service herein must be sustained. Burckle v. Eckhardt,
3 N. Y. 132; Childs v. Harris, 104 N. Y. 480; Coghlan v.
S. C. R. R. Co., 142 N. Y. 101; Connecticut Mutual Life
A.ssurance Co. v. Cleveland, Coludmbus & Cincinnati R. R.
Co., 28 How. Pr. 180; Ellis v. Willard, 9 N. Y. 529; Hiller
v. Burlington & Missouri R. R. Co., 70 N. Y. 228; Illinois
Central R. R. Co. v. Beebe, 174 Illinois, 13; Scudder v.
Union Nat. Bank of Chicago, 91 U. S. 406; State Tax on
Foreign Bonds, 15 Wall. 300; Sprawn v. Brandt-Dent. Co.,
71 App. Div. 236, aff'd. 175 N. Y. 463; Union Nat. Bank v.
Chapman, 169 U. S. 538; Waldron v. CanadianPac. R. R.
Co., 22 Washington, 353; § 432, New York Code of Civil
Procedure.
The decisions in the cases of Atlantic Coast Line v.
Riverside Mills, cofistruing the Carmack Amendment
to the Hepburn Act, show conclusively that the plaintiff
in error was actually engaged in doing business within thq
State of New York. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Riverside Mills, 219 U.- S. 186; Galveston, Harrisburg & San
Antonio Ry. Co. v. Wallace, and Same v. Crow, 223 U. S.
481; Pennsylvdnia Lumbermen's Ins. Co. v. Meyer, 190
U. S.407; 34 Stat. L. 74, Chap. 3591, § 20.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error, Alexander, filed his complaint
against the plaintiff in error, St. Louis Southwestern Rail-

OCTOBEII TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

way Company of Texas, a Texas corporation, in the Supreme Court of New York County to recover damages for
-loss sustained by him arising from the alleged negligence
of the railway company in failing to properly ice and re-ice
certain poultry shipped from Waco, Texas, to New York
City under a bill of lading given by the railway company
to the shipper, the Texas Packing Company. Upon the
petition of the railway company the case was removed to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York. That court denied a motion to
vacate and quash service of summons and to dismiss for
want of jurisdiction, and upon trial judgment was entered for the defendant in error. The District Court, succeeding to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, allowed
a writ of error and certified to this court the question of
jurisdiction under § 238 of the Judicial Code (March 3,
1911, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087).
When the plaintiff in error received the poultry from the.
Texas Packing Company at Waqo on November 25, 1910,
for shipment to New York City, it delivered to the packing
company a through bill of lading in which it acknowledged
receipt of the property and agreed to carry the freight "to
its usual place of delivery at said destination, if on its
road, otherwise to deliver to another carrier on the route to
said destination," and in which was set out, among others,
the following conditions:
"SEC. 2. In issuing this bill of lading this company
agrees to transport only over its own line, and except as
otherwise provided by law acts only as agent with respect
to the portion of the route beyond its own line.
"SEC. 3. Claims for loss, damage, or delay must be
made in writing to the carrier at the point of delivery or
at the point of origin within four months after delivery of
the property.

.

.

Unless claims are so made the

carrier shall not be liable."
The route, as shown by the bill of lading, was "Cotton

ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. v. ALEXANDER.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Belt to East St. Louis, care of Big 4 E. St. Louis, care
On December 5, 1910, the
of Nickel Plate Route."
freight was delivered in a damaged condition to the defendant in error, to whom the bill of lading had been endorsed.
Alexander brought suit on July 10, 1911, against the
plaintiff in error in the Supreme Court of New York
County and caused summons to be served upon Lawrence
Greer, one of the directors of the plaintiff in error residing
in New York, in accordance with the laws of New York.
Subsequently the case was removed to the United States
Circuit Court on the ground of diversity of citizenship.
The plaintiff in error filed a motion to vacate and quash
the attempted service of summons and to dismiss the
cause "for want of jurisdiction over the person of said
St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company of Texas, for
the reason that said'St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company of Texas is a foreign corporation, organized and existing under the laws of the State of Texas, is not doing
business within the State of New York, is not found
within said State and is not amenable to service therein,
and has not whived due service of summons herein by
voluntary appearance or otherwise." The Circuit Court
denied the motion, holding that the service was in accordance with the New York laws, provided the action arose
in that State, and that the action did so arise, for, althotgh
the contract was made in Texas, it called for delivery in
New York, and the bill of lading required that the claim
be presented to the carrier at the point of delivery; and
holding further that, upon the authority of Atlantic Coast
Line R. R. Co. v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S.186, and Pennsylvania Lumbermen's Mutual Fire Insurance Company v.
Meyer, 197 U. S.407, under the Carmack Amendment'to
the Hepburn Act (June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584, 595,c. 3591,
§ 20), the plaintiff in error was doing business in the State
of New York to the extent that the Federal courts acquired

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

jurisdiction of a removed cause in which summons had
been served in accordance with the state laws.
After an answerhad been filed by the plaintiff in error,
trial was had in the District Court (the Judicial Code
having become effective), the plaintiff in error duly renewing, at the opening of the trial and subsequent stages,
its motion to vacate and quash the service and to dismiss
the action for want of jurisdiction, which was denied upon
the authority of the prior order. After final judgment
had been entered upon the verdict for the plaintiff, the
District Court certified to this court the question of
jurisdiction.
The record discloses the following facts in regard to the
relationship existing between the plaintiff in error and the
St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company and their activities in the State of New York: The St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company, a Missouri corporation, and
the plaintiff in error comprise what is commonly known
as the "Cotton Belt Route," running from St. Louis,
Missouri, through the States of Illinois, Missouri, Tennessee, Arkansas and Louisiana into Texas, with nearly
one-half of the mileage in Texas. A map of the two roads
contained in their. "Official List," showing the route of
the system, makes no distinction' whatsoever between the
trackage routes of the two lines.
All the stock of the plaintiff in error, save qualifying
shares, is owned by the Missouri company, and the funded
debt, mortgages and other obligations and assets of the
plaintiff in error are owned and controlled by the Missouri
company. In a certain application to the New York
Stock Exchange requesting it to list securities of the Missouri company made by the. secretary of that company
it was stated that the proceeds were to be used for equipping and extending certain branches of the plaintiff in
error.

Certain banks and trust companies in New York

City act as registrars, trustees, transfer agents and agents

ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. v. ALEXANDER.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for the two companies, the obligations being secured by
mortgages upon the properties of both corporations.
The general officers and agents of one company hold
similar positions with the other. The annual report of the
plaintiff in error and the Missouri company are combined,
and the Texas company is referred to therein as a part or
division of the Missouri corporation. Throughout the
report reference is made to the "entire system," and in
various respects the two lines are treated as one system.
It further is shown that upon the door of an office in
New York City there appears the sign "Cotton Belt
Route," which words are also found on the-stationery of
the plaintiff in error and the Missouri company, and that
beneath the symbol appears "St. Louis Southwestern
Lines," and underneath the names P. H. Coombs, General
Eastern Freight and Passenger Agent and C. W. Braden,
Travelling Freight Agent. In official pamphlets of the
two roads the names of the plaintiff in error and the St.
Louis Southwestern Railway Company are bracketed
together to show that they constitute the Cotton Belt
Route.
Before the action was commenced the defendant in
error had considerable correspondence in regard to the
claim with P. H. Coombs, of the NewYork office, in which
the defendant in error stated that the plaintiff in error
was the initial carrier and as such would be held liable for
the amount of the damage. Replies were received to all
such letters, acknowledging receipt and showing the attention and investigation which the claim was receiving and
stating that all claims were handled by the general offices
at either St. Louis or Tyler, Texas, and that the letters
were being sent to the St. Louis office of the Missouri company and that it was hoped a satisfadtory reply from the
St. Louis office Would be received at an early date. One
letter was forwarded to S. C. Johnson, Auditor of the
Missouri Company, Freight Claim Division, and General
VOL. ccXXVli-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Adjuster of all freight claims of the Cotton Belt Route,
who replied that he would review the matter and write
fully :egarding the company's position.
In this class of cases, where it is undertaken to hold a
corporation personally liable in a foreign jurisdiction, two
questions ordinarily arise: the first, Was the corporation
within the jurisdiction in which it is sued? the second, Was
process duly served upon an authorized agent of the corporation? As to the latter question, there is little difficulty in this case. The cause of action having accrued in
New York by the failure to keep the contract for the safe
delivery of the goods there, the service could be properly
made under the New York statute, in the absence of other
designated officials, upon the resident director. Pennsylvania Lumbermen's Mutual Fir. Insurance Company v.
Meyer, 197 U. S. 407.
The other question as tolthe presence of the:corporation
withiin the jurisdiction of the court in which'it was sued
raises more difficulty. A long line of decisions in this
court has established that in order to renderAa corporation
amenable to service of process in a foreign jurisdiction it
must appear that the corporation is transacting business
in that district to such an extent as to subject it to the
jurisdiction and laws thereof. The Lafayette Ins. Co. v.
French, 18 How. 404; St. Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350;
Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 518; Conley v. Mathieson Alkali Works, 190 U. S. 406; Geer v. Mathieson Alkali
Works, 190 U.,S. 428; Peterson v. Chicago, Rock Island &
Pac. Ry. Co., 205 U. S. 364; Green v. Chicago, Burlington &
'Quincy Ry. Co., 205 U. S. 530; MechanicalAppliance Co. v.
Castleman, 215 U. S. 437; Herndon-CarterCo. v. Norris,
So
Co., 224 U. S. 496.
-In the court below it was adjudged that the so-called
Carip~ck Amendment, under the circumstances here detaile, had had the effect of making the corporation liable
to suit in New York and, because of the agency within

ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. v. ALEXANDER.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

New York of the connecting carrier, effected by that
statute, must be'held to be there present and subject to
service of process. In view of the recent consideration of
the Carmack Amendment in this court it is unnecessary to
now enter upon any extended discussion of it. The object
of the statute was to require the initial carrier receiving
freight for transportation in interstate commerce to obligate itself to carry to the point of destination, using the
lines of connecting carriers as its agencies, thus securing
for the benefit of the shipper unity of transporation and
responsibility. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Riverside
Mills, 219 U. S. p. 203. The provisions of the amendment
had the effect of facilitating the remedy of the shipper by
making the initial carrier responsible for the entire carriage, but the amendment was not intended, as we view
it, to make for' ',corporations through connecting carriers
liable to suit in a district where they were not carrying on
business in the sense which has heretofore been held necessary to confer jurisdiction.
We reach the conclusion that this case is to be decided
upon the principles which have heretofore prevailed in
determining whether a foreign corporation is doing business within the district in such sense as to subject it to
suit therein. This court has decided each case of this
character upon the facts brought before it and has laid
down no all-embracing rule by which it may be determined what constitutes the doing of business by a foreign
corporation in such manner as to subject it to a given
jurisdiction.. In a general way it may be said that the
business must be such in character and extent as to warrant the inference that the corporation has subjected itself
to the jurisdiction and laws of the district in which it is
served and in which it is bound to appear when a proper
agent has been served with process. Lafayette Ins. Co. v.
French, supra, p. 407; Green v. Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy Ry. Co., supra,p. 532. Applying the general princi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

ples which we. regard as settled by this court, Was this
company doing business in the State of New York in that
sense?

The testimony discloses that the two roads together
constitute a continuous line- from St. Louis, through the

States of Illinois, Missouri, Tennessee, Arkansas and Louisiana into Texas, and are together known as the "Cotton
Belt Route." This combination has an office in the city
of New York, upon the door of which, as upon the stationcry and literature of the companies, the symbol, "Cotton
Belt Route," is found in use. Underneath appears the
general description, "St. Louis Southwestern Lines," and
there is also named a general eastern freight agent and
traveling freight agent of the lines. With this joint freight
agent at the office in New York the matter of the plaintiff's claim was taken up and considered, and correspondence concerning it was had through his office, and a settlement of the claim attempted. It was only after such
negotiations for a settlemeat had failed that this action
was brought. Here, then, was an authorized agent attending to this and presumably other matters of a kindred
character, undertaking to act for and represent the company, negotiating for it and in its behalf declining to adjust
the claim made against it. In this situation we think this
was the transaction of business in behalf of the company
by its authorized agent in such manner as to bring it within
the District of New York, in which it was sued, and -to
make it subject to the service of process there. See in this
connection, Pennsylvania Lumbermen's Mutual Fire Insurance Company v. Meyer, 197 U. S. 415; CommercialMutual Accident Co. v. Davis, 213 U. S. 245, 255.
In our opinion the court did not err in holding the corporation subject to process and duly served in this case.
Judgment affirmed.

