BRADLEY v. RICHMIOND.
227 U. S.

Syllabus.

a value stated upon inquiry, and one agreed upon or
declared voluntarily. The rate of freight was based upon
the valuation thus fixed, and the liability should not
exceed the amount so made the rate basis. Hart v. Pemnsylvania Railroad, 112 U. S. 331, 338.
Judgment reversed and remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.

BRADLEY v. CITY OF RICHMOND.
ERROR TO THE SUPRFME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE.STATE
OF VIRGINIA.

No. 38.

Submitted November 6,1912.-Decided February 24, 1913.

A privilege tax may perform the double function of regulating the
business under .the police power and of producing revenue if authorized by the law of the State.
Under the Fourteenth Amendment, neither the State nor its municipality can confer or exercise arbitrary power in classifying for
purpose of regulating, licensing or taxing.
Whether the power of classifying be exercised by the State directly
or by the municipality, it is the exercise of legislative discretion and
subject to the guarantee of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The power of the State to determine what occupations shall be subject
to license and tax is subject to no limitations save those of the due
process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment,
and nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment prohibits the State from
delegating this power. (hndlivg v. Chicago, 177 U. S.183.
An ordinance imposing a license on business, dividing it into several
classes and giving the power of classification to a committee of the
council with power of review by the entire council, is not an arbitrar
exercise of power within the prohibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment, and so held as to the banker's license tax of Richmond, Virginia.
An ordinance imposing license taxes and authorizing classification
which provides for a review will not be held unconstitutional because

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

227 U. S.

the reviewing power might approve ofan unjust classification-such
an objection would apply to any tribunal.
The presumptions are that the tribunal charged with the duty of determining whether a classification is proper will not perform its duty
unjustly.
If the right to be heard and obtain a review does not avail to protect
rights under the Constitution, the right to judicial review remains
under the general principles of jurisprudence. Kentucky Railroad
Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 321.
The burden is on the one who complains of his classification under a
legal ordinance to show that he was denied equal protection of the
law by such classification.
Where errors of administration in classifying for taxation can be corrected on review, one complaining that he was denied equal protection of the laws must avail of the method provided before applying
to the Federal courts for protection under the Fourteenth Amendment.
Where it is a clearly apparent error, this court will take notice of
evident omission in the transcript of record of the word "not."
110 Virginia, 521, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
due process and equal protection provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment of a license ordinance of the city of
Richmond, Virginia, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. I. Henry Harris for plaintiff in error:
The ordinances and the tax imposed on the plaintiff in
error were void as in violation of the due process and
equal protection provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment. The power given to the Committee on Finance
to tax and classify the persons or businesses mentioned,
and the tax imposed by it was a naked and arbitrary
power, neither restrained nor guided, and offends those
provisions.
The guaranty of the Constitution prohibits laws which
are capable of being exercised arbitrarily and with discrimination and unjustly and without regard to legal discretion.
-Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Gulf &c. R. R. v. Ellis.

BRADLEY r. RICHMOND,
227 U. S.

Counsel for Defendant in EiTor.

165 U. S. 150; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 Uo S.
540; Bell's Gap R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232237; Morton v. Macon, 111 Georgia, 162. See also Richmond v. Model Steam Laundry, 111 Va. Rep. 758. The
cases which hold that certain laws apply only to a certain class of the people or businesses are not applicable
to the facts and the ordinance in question, because the
ordinance in this case does not provide for any classification of persons or businesses mentioned therein, but
delegates such classification to the Finance Committee.
This distinguishes Kentucky RailroadTax Cases, 115 U. S.
321; McMillan v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 37; Clark v. Titusville, 184 U. S. 329; Gundling v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183;
Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104; Engel v.
O'Malley, 209 U. S. 128.
There the statute fixed the terms and conditions and the
fee on which the license should be issued and the comptroller who issued them had no arbitrary power. See
also Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S. 114; BrownForman Case, 217 U. S. 563.
See contra Gulf &c. Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150;
Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, 635; Connolly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 561.
In urging that the tax is not unconstitutional, the defendant in error claims that the plaintiffs in error could
have appealed to the council if any error was made. But
such right to appeal is entirely irrelevant to the question
here presented. What the committee could do under the
ordinance the council could do. Thero is no difference
whether the council or its committee fixed the class in
which the plaintiffs in error were placed. The ordinance
is impregnated with the vice already shown whether the
council or its committee acted and the right to appeal
could not save it from that vice.
Mr. H. R. Pollardfor defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.

Appellant was convicted in the Hustings Court of
Richmond for the violation of an ordinance forbidding the
carrying on of the business of a "private banker" without
a license. This judgment was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State.
Numerous objections to the ordinance and to the tax,
arising under the law and constitution of the State, were
decided adversely to the plaintiff in error. With these we
have no concern. The case comes here upor, the clam
made in the state court, and denied, that the ordinance
denies both the equal protection of the law and due process
as guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
The ordinance in question requires all persons desiring
to pursue certain businesses and occupations to pay a
special license tax for the privilege of prosecuting such
business. Many pursuits are named, among them real
estate agents, commission merchants, brokers, auctioneers,
private bankers, etc. The persons required to pay such
special license tax are to be, divided by the finance committee of the city council into thirteen classes. The
amount required to be paid by each class is as follows:
First class, $800; second class, $600; third class, $400;
fourth class, $300; fifth class, $250; and so on in decreasing
amounts to the thirteenth class which is required to pay
only $10. This classification by the finance committee is
to be made with the advice and assistance of "the commissioner of revenue, the city tax collector, or any city
officer."
The tax imposed is not merely an exercise of the police
power regulating a business, but is a tax assessed as a
condition upon which the license issues. Though it fulfills
the double function of both regulating the business and
producing revenue, it was fully authorized by the law of
the State as adjudged by he very judgment under review:

BRADLEY v. RICHMOND.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Gundling v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183, 189. Since the purpose
of the statute is double, it is plain that to exact the same
amount from. each person or firm subject to the tax might
result in inequality of burden under like circumstances
and conditions. Therefore it was that the ordinance provided for a division into classes, those in each class paying
the same tax.
The objection to the ordinance does not grow out of any
contention that there may not exist just and reasonable
distinctions justifying a greater tax upon some of these
persons or firms engaged in doing what is called a 'private
banking" business than upon others engaged in the same
general business; but arises from the fact that the law
provides no rule by which some are to be placed in one
class and some in another. An ordinance which commits
to a board, committee or single official the power to make
an arbitrary classification for purposes of taxation, would
meet neither the requirement of due process, nor that of
the equal protection of the law.
But this ordinance does not authorize any arbitrary
classification, nor could the State or the council legally
confer or exercise arbitrary power in classifying for the
purpose of either regulating or licensing or taxing. The
guarantee of the Fourteenth Amendmient would forbid.
But whether the power of classifyiig be exercised by the
State directly or by a city council authorized to require
the payment of such a tax as a condition to the issuance
of a license, it is at last the exercise of legislative discretion
and is subject, in either case, to the guarantee referred to.
But when the matter concerns the determination of the
business or occupation which may be required to take out
a license and pay a tax as a condition of obtaining such a
license, the power of the State is subject to no limitations,
save those found in the guarantee of due process and the
equal protection of the law. In the present instance, the
State has delegated this power of selecting the businesses
VOL. ccxxvii:-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1112.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.,

and occupations carried on within the city of Richmond,
:rod of dividing them into classes and determining the
amount of the tax to be paid by the members of each
class. The state Supreme Court has decided that there
can be no objection under the constitution of the State to
such delegation. Neither do we see any reason under the
Fourteenth Amendment why the State may not delegate
to either the council of the city or to a board appointed
for that purpose the power to divide such occupations or
privileges into classes or sub-classes, and prescribe the tax
to be paid by the members of each such class. Gundling
v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183; Fischer v. St. Louis, 194 U. S..
361, 372; Lieberman v. Van De Carr, 199 U. S. 552, 560.
In the case last cited, this court said:
"That this court will not interfere because the States
have seen fit to give administrative discretion to local
boards to grant or withhold licenses or permits to carry
on trades or occupations, or perform acts which are
properly the subject of regulation in the exercise of the
reserved power of the States to protect the health and
safety of its people there can be no doubt."
That this ordinance does not contemplate any arbitrary
discrimination between the persons or firms subject to the
license tax is evident from the direction that they shall be
divided into thirteen classes, the members of each class
to pay the particular amount named as a condition to the
issuance of a license. It is also evident from the provisions
in respect of ntotice, right to be heard and a right to a review by the council itself. These are obvious guards
against unjust and capricious inequalities.
The authority to classify is given to the finance -committee of the city council. That was a committee of eleven
members of a Pity council composed of forty members.
The ordinance required this commnittee to make a tentative
classification with the advice and assistance of certain
city officials supposed to be acquainted with the general

BRADLEY v. RICHMOND.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

subject. When made the classification is required to be
filed in the office of the city auditor for public inspection.
The auditor is then required to give notice through two
city newspapers that the tentative assessment is so filed
inhis office for examination and that all persons affected
may be heard by the finance committee at times and
places specified. From the final classification made by
the committee-the ordinance permits any aggrieved person to appeal to the full city council and there obtain a review.
But it is said that after all there is no security that the
city council will not in the end approve of a scheme of
classification operating most, unjustly. The same objection might be made with reference to any tribunal required to determine such a matter. The presumptions
which must be indulged run counter to the suggestion
made.
If the right to appear and be heard and to obtain a review should prove illusory, there would, under general
principles of jurisprudence, remain the right to judicial
review, if the result should violate either a right secured
under the law of the State or that of the United States.
This is the right which plaintiff in error has in this very
case asserted. Kentucky Railroad Tax Cases, 115 U. S.
321, 335, 336.
There was obviously no want of due process of law in the
imposition of the tax.
Finally,. the plaintiff in error says that the actual operation of the ordinance has brought about an unjust and
illegal discrimination in that he has been classified in such
manner as td subject him and his business to a higher tax,
ais a condition of issuing to him a license, than that required of many other private bankers. This was a defense
Made in the state court. But that court, after saying
that it was competent for the council to assign private
bankers to different classes, and that the plaintiff in error

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

had been required to pay no greater license tax than all
others in the same class, said:
"In order to render the classification illegal, the party
assailing it must show that the business discriminate&
against is precisely the same ;As that included in the class
which is alleged to be favored. Noifolk &c. v. Norfolk,
105 Virginia, 139. That has not been shown in the present
case; on the contrary, it appears that the. business of the
plaintiff in error is not precisely the same with that of
other private bankers who are put in a different class
and assessed with a less license tax."
That soine private hankers were put into classes which
subjected then to less taxation than the class into which
the plaintiff in error was placed is the only allegation which
would tend to show discrimination. But.there was evidence tending to show that the business done by the
plaintiff in error and ten other persons or firms was that
of lending money at high rates upon salaries and household
furniture, while the kind of business done by others in
the same general business was the lending of money upon
commercial securities. Obviously the burden was upon
the plaintiff in error tor show an illegal and capricious classification. The state court said that he had failed to show
that these private bankers, favored in the classification
were doing the same business.
In Home Telephone Company v. Los Angeles, 211 U. S.
265, 280, 281, the complaint was that the city, under an
authority to regulate the charges for telephone service,
had -given a more favorable rate to a rival company and
had thereby illegally discriminated. After saying that
the allegation of such difference was "too vague to pass
upon," this c6urt said:
"Whether the two companies operated in the same
territory, or afforded equal facilities for connunication,
or rendered the same services does not appear. For aught
that appears, the other company may have brought its

BRADLEY v. RICHMOND.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

patrons into communication with a very much larger
number of persons, dwelling in a much more widely extended territory, and rendered very much more valuable
services. In other words, a just ground for classification
may have existed. Every presumption should be indulged
in favor of the constitutionality of the legislation."
See also Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U. S. 380, 392.
But it is not necessary to rest our judgment upon the
question as to Whether the plaintiff in error was rightly
or erroneously classified, because we are of opinion that
he is not in a situation to complain. There was obviously
no want of due process of law in the scheme of the ordinance. The occupations to be subjected to the tax were
defined. There was a maximum and minimum limitation
as to the amount of the tax, dependent upon the classification. The classification was to be made after notice
and a hearing and an appeal from the final action of the
committee was permissible. The plaintiff in error might
have appeared and shown the character and extent of the
business he was doing and compared it with that of others
more favored in classification. He did nothing of the
kind. He seems to have stood by and let the matter of
classification go by without contest. It is no answer to
say that it would have been unavailing. The presumption
is otherwise. The authority to classify was committed
primarily to the finance committee, subject to review
by the council. It was expected to use its judgment and
knowledge. If it erred there was ample opportunity to
show that by an appeal to the council. Of the right to
appear and to be heard plaintiff in error elected not to
avail himself. Under the circumstances he is not warranted in resorting to the extraordinary jurisdiction of
this court to arrest an administrative error susceptible of
correction by an appeal to the council. Gundling v.
Chicago, 177 U. S. 183, 186; Chicago,.B. & Q. Rd. v. Babcock, 204 U. S. 585, 598.

OCTOBERI TK,10-

IOU

(Counsel for Appebiv-'.

227 '. ,;.

It is true that in the opinion of the Ilustits Court i is
inadvertently said that of the opportunities afforded by
the act for curing any wrong he had "availed himself."
It is likely that. the word "not" has been accidentally
onitted. This we say because the brief of the defendant,
in error says that he did not appeal to the city council
and in the brief of the plaintiff in error this is adhnitted.
In addition, we add that there is no evidence that he in
any way appeared or pointed out any injustice done him.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR concurs in 'the result.

UNITED STATES v. MASON, EXECUTOR.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIRS.'
No. 537.

Submitted December 20, 1912.-Decided February 24, 1913.

Section 5 of the act of April 16, 1908, 35 Stat. 61, c. 345, providing for
rank and pay of retired officers of the Revenue-Cutter Service held
not to give in this case an additional step forward to a retired officer
who had already been advanced one step gratuitoi. ly.
The court in this case follows the construction of the statute by the
officers of the Treasury Department.
46 Ct. Cl. 393, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the act of
April 16, 1908, and the amount of pay due thereunder to
an officer in the Revenue-Cutter Service, are stated in
the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General John Q. Thompson and
Mr. George M. Anderson for the United States.
Mr. Francis P. B. Sands for appellee.

