OCTOBER TERM, 1912
Statement of the Case°

227 U. S.

STUART v. UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAL
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 135.

FOR THE

Argued January 22, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

It has already been decided by this court that the Kansas Pacific
Railway Company had a right to build west of the one hundredth
meridian.
It has also been heretofore decided that the Pacific Railroad Acts of
July 1, 1862, and July 2, 1864, should be considered and construed
as one act.
A right of way is a substantial and obvious benefit and if a railroad L
entitled to a right of way under an act, it io entitled thereto under
a later act extending the routc and granting nil benefits given under
the earlier act.
Even though the record may not show that all the maps of definite
location had been filed, a railroad company may acquire under the
acts of 1862 and 1864 a right of way by actual construction of the
road.
A railroad obtaining a right of way under the acts of 1862 and 1864
retains title thereto whether occupied by it or not,
All persons acquiring public lands after the passage of -the Pacific Railroad Acts took the same subject to the right of way conferred by
them on the proposed roads. Railroud Co. v, Baldwin, 103 U. S.426.
Where the claimants to the same land have both paid the taxes thereon
continuously, they stand on equal fooling, and the payment does
not establish adverse posseqsion.
Under the acts of 1862 and 1864 ti Kan'as Pacific R-ilway Company
had authority to build west of the one hundredth meridlian to Denver and was entitled to a right of wvay two hundred fet frm the
center of the track, and that right i, superior to claims initiate(d
after the act (f 1864, even if prior to the construction of the road;
and this right is not defeated by adverse possession.
178 Fed. Rep. 753, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the title to certain portions of

the right of way of the Kansas Pacific Railway now

STUART e. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO.
227 U, S.

343

Opinion of the Court,

owh:ed by the Union P9,cific Railroad, are stated in the
opm~iOn
Mr. Charles A. Muo°ay, with whom Mr. Thomas B.
Stuart, Hr Louis T. Michener, Mr. Perry G. Michener and
Mr. Joseph C. qelm were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Clayton C. Dorsey for respondent.
Mr. Joseph C. Eving, by leave of the court, filed a brief
a amicus cru*M.
)IR.

JUrSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Suit to quiet title to the E.

3

of the N. W. V and the

N. E. I/ of the S. W. I and the N. W. 4 of the S. E. 4 of
Section 20, Township 38, Range 67 West, situated in the
city and count,, of Denver (formerly in Arapahoe County),
State of C(%ora;do,
The suit was brought in the Distri't Court of .the city
and county of Deaver ag:--unst tbe Kansas Pacific Railway
Company, tbe Colorado Eastern Railroad Company and
the Union Pacific Railroad Company and removed on the
petition of the latter company to the United'States Circuit
Court for the District of Colorado, on the ground of a
separable controversy. A motion to remand was made
and denied. The railroad company answered, joining
issue as to so much of the lands as constituted a tract 200
feet in width on each ide of its road. It asserted title
as successor of the Kansas Pacific Railway Company,
which had been granted the tract as a right of way, it was
alleged, by the acts of Congress gemerally denominated
the Pacific Railroad Acts
The discussion in the case will turn up.- -i the title of the
railroad rather than upon the title of petitioners. There it

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

no question of their title if that of the respondent company
be not good. The Circuit Court held that the title of the
company was good and dismissed the bill. The Circuit
Court of Appeals decided that the dismissal of the bill was
error; that the court should have recognized the company's title to the right of way and have quieted petitioners' title to the remainder. The decree of the Circuit
Court was modified accordingly. 178 Fed. Rep. 753.
The Pacific Railroad Acts have been before this court
so many times that it seems unnecessary to make further
quotation from them. The first of them was passed
July 1, 1862 (12 Stat. 489, c. 120): the second one, July 2,
1864 (13 Stat. 356, c. 216), and two others respectively on
July 3, 1866 (14 Stat. 79, c. 159); and March 3, 1869 (15
Stat. 324, c. 127). Their relation constitutes the conf roversy in the case, and, simply stated, it is whether the
right of way granted to the Leavenworth, Pawnee &
Western Railroad Company, the name of which Was
o'hanged in 1863 to Union Pacific Railway Company,
Eastern DiVision, and in 1864 to the Kansas Pacific
Railway Company, terminated at the one hundredth
meridian or extended westward of that point to Denver.
The petitioners contend for the former; the railroad company, for the latter.
rThe explicit contention of petitioners is that the right of
way granted to the Kansas Pacific Railway Company
(we use the latest name) does not extend to the lands in
question, for that company, under its first name of Leavenworth, Pawnee. & Western Railroad Company, and all
(ither eastern branches of the main line were authorized to
build only to the one hundredth meridian, and no farther.
The main line was, under the act of July 1, 1862,
authorized to be constructed by the Union Pacific Railroad Company westward through Cheyenne to the western boundary of Nevada and possibly farther to meet
the Central Pacific Railroad, which was authorized to

STUART v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

build from the coast eastward. To the main line so constituted grants of land and bonds were made and a right
of way was granted through all public lands "200 feet in
width on each side of said railroad where it may pass
over public lands." The initial point of the Union Pacific
was to be the "100th meridian

.

.

.

between the

south margin of the valley of the Republican and the
north margin of the valley of the Platte, in the Territory of
Nebraska."
Section 9 of the act authorized the Leavenworth,
Pawnee & Western Railroad to construct a road from the
Missouri river at the mouth of the Kansas "to the aforesaid point on the 100th meridian

.

.

.

upon the same

terms and conditions in all respects" as provided for the
main line. The road was required to be so located through
Kansas as to be between the mouth of the Kansas river
and the designated point on the one hundredth meridian,
and, it was provided, that the several roads from Missouri
and Iowa authorized by the act to connect with the same
could make the connection within the limits prescribed
in the act, providing it could be done without deviating
from the general direction of the whole line to the Pacific
coast.
There is no uncertainty in the act of 1862. The initial
point of the main line was the one hundredth meridian,
and at that point the Leavenworth, Pawnee and Western
Railroad Company (now the Kansas Pacific Railway)
and other eastern branches were to connect with the main
line.
The next act is that of July 2, 1864, and on its provisions
arise the principal controversy in the case. It is contended
by the respondent railroad company that the act authorized the Kansas Pacific road (then, as we shall see, the
Union Pacific Railroad, Eastern Division) to build westward of the one hundredth meridian, and granted it, besides certain sections of the public lands, a right of way

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

400 feet wide, 200 feet either side of the center of its track.
Petitioners oppose the contention and insist that the act
only aimed to provide for the convenient connection of
certain branch roads with the main trunk line at or near
the one hundredth meridian and did not extend a right
of way to any branch beyond the one-hundredth meridian.
Comparing the two acts, petitioners say that the act of
1862 referred solely to the right of way through public
lands. The act of 1864 referred solely to condemnation
of right of way through private lands and to granting
facilities of connection with the Union Pacific through
ferries and bridges over navigable rivers. The permission
to build westwardly, it is further urged, was not given to
all branches but only to such as were made branches by
the act of 1864. The contentions are earnestly argued and
are made to rest mainly on § 9 of the act.
The act of 1864 was entitled "An Act to amend" the act
of 1862, and it was provided by § 9 that " . . . any
company authorized by this act to construct its road and
telegraph lir~>frori the Missouri river to the initial point
aforesaid [100th meridian] may construct its road and
telegraph line so as to connect with the Union Pacific
Railroad at any point westwardly qf such initial point, in
case such company shall deem such westward connection
more practicable or desirable; arid in aid of the construction of so much of its road and telegraph line as shall be a
departure from the route hereinbefore provided for its
road, such company shall be entitled to all the benefits, and be
subject to all the conditions and restrictions, of this act;
Provided further, however, That the bonds of the United
States shall not he issued to such company for a greater
amount than is hereinbefore provided, if the same had
united with the Union Pacific Railroad on the one hundredth degree of lorgitude; nor shall such company be entitled to receive any greater amount of alternate sections of
public lands than are also herein provided." (Italics ours.)

STUART v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO.
227 U. S.

347

Opinion of the Court.

At the time of the passage of that act the Leavenworth,
Pawnee & Western Railroad Company (now the Kansas
Pacific Railway Company) was known as the Union
Pacific Railroad Company, Eastern Division, in accordance with lawful authority given in 1863. The time for
the completion of its line was extended, and by the act of
July 3, 1866, it was given until December 1, 1866, to file
the map of general route. Upon filing the map the lands
along the entire line of the general route were to be reserved by the Secretary of the Interior. It was provided
that the company should be entitled only to the same
amount of bonds "as they would have been entitled to if
they had connected their said line with the Union Pacific
Railroad on the 100th degree of longitude as now required
by law. And, provided further, that said company shall
connect their line of railroad and telegraph with the Union
Pacific-Railroad, but not at a point more than fifty miles
westwardly from the meridian of Denver in Colorado."
By applying very simple rules of construction to these
acts and from a consideration of their purpose and the
means which were deemed necessary to accomplish that
purpose, we should have to reject the contention of plaintiffs. We are relieved, however, of the necessity of a
lengthy discussion and one which we might consider
necessary, in deference to the earnestness of counsel, by
the previous decisions of this court and may rest our
judgment on their authority.
The acts of Congress came up for consideration and
construction in Missouri, K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Kansas
Pacific Ry. Co., 97 U. S. 491, 494, upon the very points
now involved. The contest was between the two railroad
companies as to which was entitled to certain lands,
whether the Kansas Pacific Railway Company took them
under the act oe 1862 as amended in 1864, or whether
the Missouri &c. Railway Company was entitled to them
under a grant to it made July 26, 1866. It is mani-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

fest that the issue presented was an important one and
had important consequences.
The court intimated that
principles and considerations upon which it should be
decided affected other rights as well as those contested
and necessarily gave them a proportional consideration.
The opinion demonstrated it. It was decided that the.
act of 1862 and that of 1864 practically constituted one
act, and the enlargement by the latter of the grant made
by the former took effect at the date of the former; and
"this was done," it was said, "not by words of a new and
additional grant, but by a change of words in the original
act, substituting for those there used words of larger import." It was further decided that the act of 1864 "authorized the plaintiff [the Kansas Pacific Railway Company] to construct its road and telegraph line so as to
connect with the Union Pacific Railroad at any point
westwardly of its initial point, in case it deemed such
westward connection more practicable or desirable."
This is the language, it will be observed, of § 9 of the act
of 1864. The court used it as the best means of expressing
the purpose of the act.
In United States v. Kansas Pacific Ry. Co., 99 U. S. 455,
the extent of the grant made by the acts of 1862 and 1864
again came up for decision, and upon issues more pertinent
to the present controversy, if possible, than those in the
other case. The case concerned the extent of the lien of
the Government and the liability of the company for
5% of the net earnings of that portion of the road of
the company west of the one hundredth meridian. The
answer was considered as turning on the construction of"
§ 9, supra. Commenting on its provisions, the court said
(p. 457)': "It thus appears that whilst the company was
authorized to extend its road west of the one hundredth
meridian, if it saw fit so to do, it was entirely in its option;
and if it did, it was not to expect, or have, any subsidy of
government bonds for such extension."

STUART v. UNION PACIFIC, R. R. CO.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The road was actually built to Denver, 245 miles beyond the one hundredth meridian, and upon this part of
the road the Government claimed a lien as well as upon
the road east of the meridian. Passing on the claim, the
court said (p. 457):,"A material question in this case is,
whether the whole line to Denver, or only the line which
the company was first authorized to construct (which
terminated at the one hundredth meridian), is liable to
t he lien for the government subsidy, and the payment of
five per cent. of net earnings." Answering the question,
it was observed (p. 458): "From a careful examination of
the statutes relating to this subject, we are of opinion that,
whilst, as to its entire line, the company, in the words of
the ninth section of the act of 1864, is 'entitled to all the
benefits and subject to all the conditions and restrictions
of the act,' and is bound to furnish transportation and
telegraphic accommodations to the government on the
usual terms; yet that the subsidy bonds granted to the
company, being granted only in respect of the original
road, terminating at the one hundredth meridian, are a
lien on that portion only; and that the five per cent. of
the net earnings is only demandable on the net earnings
of said portion." See also United States v. Union Pacific
Railway, 148 U. S. 562; Kansas Pacific Ry. Co. v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629.
It may be said thgt Union Pacific Railroad Co. v. Harris,
215 U. S. 386, puts a different construction upon the acts
of 1862 and 1864 from that received in the cases cited, and,
it must be admitted, there is language in the opinion
which may be so understood, but tl~at it was not so intended is made clear by Kindred v. Union Pacific Railroad
Co., 225 U. S. 582, where it is again declared that under
congressional authority the route of the road was changed
so that its connection with the Union Pacific Railroad
would be made at a point farther west th,,n was originally
intended.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

These cases decided that the Kansas Pacific Railway
Company had a right to build west of the one hundredth
meridian. It is not necessary, therefore, to consider the
special features of the acts upon which petitioners rest
their contention that the Kansas Pacific had no such right.
The basic one, however, we will mention, lest it be thought
that we have overlooked it or have not properly estimated
its force. It is that the acts of 1862 and 1864 should not
be considered and construed as one act; that though their
provisions had relation in some instances, in others they
had independent effect. Section 9, it is contended, is of
the latter character, and is given a specific application by
the proviso which is in the following words: "And provided further, That any company authorized by this act
[italics ours] to construct its road and telegraph line from
the Missouri river to the initial point aforesaid, may construct its road and telegraph line so as to connect with the
Union Pacific Railroad at any point westwardly of such
initial point." It is contended that these words exclude
the Kansas Pacific Railway Company because the only
two railroads authorized by "this act" to be constructed
were the Sioux City Railroad (section 17) and the Burlington & Missouri River Railroad (section 18). But that the
words "this act" should have such limited application
was necessarily involved in the other cases and was adversely decided.
We have seen that the act of July 3, 1866, extended the
time of the Union Pacific Railroad Company, Eastern
Division (now the Kansas Pacific), to file its map of general
route and provided for a reservation of land all along the
route; but it also provided that the company should be
entitled only to the same amount of bonds as it would
have been entitled to if it had connected its line "with the
Union Pacific Railroad on the 100th degree of longitude
as now required by law." (Italics ours.) It is insisted by
petitioners that this provision is a legislative construction

STUART v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the act of 1864 and "conclusive upon the point that it
was defendant's [Kansas Pacific Railway, then Union
Pacific Railroad, Eastern Division], duty at the date of
said act to unite with the Union Pacific Railroad at the
100th meridian, and has the same effect as a special
enactment of that date to that effect." The Court of
Appeals rejected this contention, and construed the provision not as requiring the connection of the roads to be
at the given meridian but as declaring that there should
not be issued to the company bonds for a greater amount
than if there had been a union with the Union Pacific at
that point. And this necessarily must have been determined to be the true construction in the cited cases. We
have said, perhaps with unnecessary repetition, that all
the acts were under consideration in those cases and theis
true relation and meaning decided.
There are specific contentions addressed to the grant of
the right of way. Some of them involve the element that
the acts of Congress granted no right to the Kansas
Pacific Railway Company to build west of the one hundredth meridian. That we have disposed of. Some of
them are based on the following propositions: (1) that a
grant of the right of way cannot be implied; it must
actually exist in express words; (2) it cannot be implied
from the use of the word "'benefits,'" as there are many
other benefits in the same act to which that word more
aptly applies; (3) it is shown by the act that it never was
intended to apply to the right of way. The last two contentions may be immediately rejected. The act manifestly applies to a right of way, and there is no distinction
made between 'benefits," for the language is "shall be
entitled to all the benefits," save that of receiving bonds.
A right of way is a substantial and obvious benefit.
RailroadCo. v. Baldwin, 103 U. S. 426, 430.
There are two other contentions which deserve more
extended comment. They are, (a) "that the act of 1864,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

being simply an option offered to certain roads to build
westwardly," etc., it must be shown that they accepted
said option by filing maps thereunder, changing the old
route and designating the new one. (b) "That the grant
of a right of way is necessarily in the nature of a float,
although a grant in prcesenti, like a military land warrant.
It becomes fixed only by filing a map of definite location
or by actual construction."
In reply to these contentions the respondent company
insists that neither a map of general location nor of general
route was necessary to the acquisition of a right of way;
that actual construction would secure it. The evidence
as to filing maps is somewhat uncertain. The Court of
Appeals in its opinion says: "There was some evidence
indicating that a map, showing the general route of the
railroad westwardly to the eastern Colorado line, was
filed with the Secretary of the Interior prior to November 30, 1866, the date not being more definitely stated; that
a.map showing the general route from the eastern Colorado
line to"Denver was accepted by that officer November 30,
1866, and that a map showing the definite location of
the railroad to Denver was filed in the land office at
Denver September 24, 1870; but none of these maps, nor
any better statement of what was shown thereon, was
offered in evidence."
It is, however, admitted by petitioners that a right of
way could be acquired by actual construction of the road,
and the railroad company finally rests its title on actual
construction of the road under the granting acts. It
admits that "the line of railroad was not definitely located
until the actual construction thereof." But it is contended
that upon its construction "the right of way attached
to the line as so constructed, but took effect as of the date
of the act of 1864." In other words, it is contended that
the right of way granted by the acts is given definite
location and precision by the construction of the road and

STUART v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

extends to the width of 200 feet from the center line of the
track. This contention is supported by the decisions of
this court. Northern Pacific Railroad Co. v. Smith, 171
U. S. 260. See also Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Townsend,
190 U. S. 267. The road was actually constructed through
Denver and to a connection with the Union Pacific at
Cheyenne and over the lands in controversy in 1870, and
has been in operation ever since. But the right of way to
its full width has not been occupied and used. This,
however, makes no difference. See cases cited immediately
above and Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v. Hasse, 197 U. S.9;
Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Cook, 163 U. S.
491,497.
In this connection it is to be remembered that the grant
of the right of way differed from the grant of alternate
odd-numbered sections in that, while both were expressed
in the words of a grant in prcesenti, the former was with-,
out limitation or exception, while the latter was expressly
made subject to the limitation or exception that it should
not include any lands which, although public at the date
of the grant, were sold, reserved or otherwise disposed of
by the United States, or to which a pre~mption or homestead claim had attached, at the date of definite location.
Of such a difference between an unconditional grant of
a right of way and a qualified grant of alternate oddnumbered sections this court said, in Railroad Co. v.
Baldwin, 103 U. S. 426, 430: "The uncertainty as to the
ultimate location of the line of the road is recognized
throughout the act, and where, any qualification is intended in the operation of the grant of lands, from this
circumstance, it is designated. Had a similar qualification upon the absolute grant of the right of way been
intended, it can hardly be doubted that it would have been
expressed. The fact that none is expressed is conclusive
that none exists. We see no reason, therefoie, for not
giving to the words of present grant with respect to the
voL. ccxxvi-23

OCTOBEt TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

right of way the same construction which we should be
compelled to give, according to our repeated decisions,
to the grant of lands had no limitation been expressed.
We are of opinion, therefore, that all persons acquiring
any portion of the public lands, after the passage of the
act in question, took the same subject to the right of way
conferred by it for the proposed road."
Petitioners rely upon adverse possession, established, as
it is contended, under the statute of Colorado by the payment of taxes, and invoke in connection with such adverse
possession the act of June 24, 1912, 37 Stat. 138, c. 181,
entitled "An Act legalizing certain conveyances heretofore
made by the Union Pacific Railroad Company."
Section 1 of the act legalizes all conveyances made by
the railroad and railway companies to which grants of a
right of way have been made, as we have stated, to the
extent that the conveyances "would have been legal or
valid if the land involved therein had been held by the
corporation making such conveyance or agreement under
absolute or fee simple title." It is further provided that
where adverse possession is claimed of any part of such
right of way under the laws of the State where the land is
situated, such adverse possession shall have the same effect
as though the right of way had been granted absolutely or
in fee simple instead of being granted as a right of way.
Of the effect of this act we are not called upon to express
an opinion other than to say that it cannot avail petitioners, for the record shows that the respondent company also returned the right of way for taxation and paid
the taxes thereon. In that respect the parties are on
an equal footing.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUISTICE HOLMES and MR.JusTICE PITNEY took

no part in the decision.

