ROBINSON v. LUNDRIGAN.
227 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

ROBINSON v. LUNDRIGAN.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

UNITED

STATES

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 108.

Argued December 19, 20, 1912.-Decided February 3, 1913.

Where an application for public lands is finally rejected on the ground
that the soldier on whose claim the application is based had no right
thereto, the case is closed and cannot be kept open for perfection
by substituting the claim of another soldier, and the instant the
application is rejected the land becomes subject to appropriation
by another.
An application must depend upon its particular basis; it cannot be kept
open for the substitution of another right than that upon which it
was made; and if a practice to do so existed in the Department
it was wrong. Moss v. Dowman, 176 U. S. 413.
Even though the Secretary keeps the case open and afterwards rules
in favor of the subsequent entryman, the original applicant is not
divested of any rights, for no right had attached.
An application based on an invalid claim of a soldier is not an entry
valid on its face which segregates the land from the public domain
and precludes its appropriation by another until set aside. McMichael v. Murphy, 197 U. S.304, distinguished.
THE facts, which involve the right of one filing an applieation for public lands based on a soldier's claim, to keep
it open after final rejection for substitution of the claim
of another soldier, and departmental practice in regard
thereto, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. C. D. O'Brien, with whom Mr. P. H
on the brief, for appellants.

Seymour was

Mr. Win. E. Culkin and Mr. Luther C. Harris for ap-pellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

227 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Bill in equity by appellants, who were complainants in
the Circuit Court, and we shall so refer to them, and to the
appellee as defendant, to adjudge defendant trustee for
complainants of the S. W. i of the S. E. I of section 13,
Township 55 North, Range 26 West of the Principal
Meridian, and to compel a conveyance to them. The
Santa Fe Railroad Company was impleaded with defendant, but it filed a disclaimer and the suit proceeded against
him alone.
The rights of complainants are based upon an application for the lands as unappropriated public lands of the
United States by Robinson, one of the complainants, as
assignee of one James Carroll. The application was duly
entered of record upon the tract and plat bdok in the local
land office and proof of the claim of Carroll for an additional homestead entry was transmitted to the General
Land Office for examination and action. Upon investigation the Land Department decided that Carroll was not
entitled to make such entry and held Robinson's application for rejection and ordered a hearing to be had on
June 29, 1905. Robinson did not appear and a decision
was rendered holding that Carroll was not entitled to an
additional homestead entry under § 2306 of the Revised
Statutes. Robinson was notified of this action and that
he had a right to appeal therefrom.
On the twenty-seventh of July, 1905, Robinson filed
with the local land office for transmission to the General
Land Office an application for leave to substitute in support of his application for entry of the land another
soldier's additional homestead right in lieu of that of
Carroll. In his application he said he appealed from the
order cancelling Carroll's entry, and excused himself for
not appearing at the hearing on June 29, 1905, on account

ROBINSON v. LUNDRIGAN.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the sudden and serious illness of his mother, which prevented his attendance at the hearing and also prevented
him from providing a representative thereat. He disclaimed a desire to incommode the Department and expressed a willingness to aid it in the adjustment of all
matters in which he should be interested. He further said
that he was deeply sensible and appreciated the seriousness
of defaulting at the hearing and that he did not want the
case reopened. He requested a delay of thirty days and
asked that the decision of the Register and Receiver of
the Land Office be amended so as to grant him a reasonable
time within which to perfect his entry.
An order was made allowing him thirty days after notice
to file a proper substitute for the right of Carroll. On
October 4, 1905, he, Robinson, filed the additional homestead right of one Justin F. Heath.
On February 15, 1906, the Commissioner' of the General
Land Office accepted the substitute and directed the local
land office that upon the payment by Robinson of the
legal fees and commissions within sixty days they should
allow the entry made by him. He paid the fees as required, and thereupon final certificate No. 715, Cass Lake,
Minnesota, Series, was issued to him.
On July 11, 1905, that is, prior to the filing by Robinson
of the homestead right of Heath, the Santa Fe Railroad,
through the defendant Lundrigan, its attorney in fact for
that purpose, filed in the local land office under the act of
Congress of June 4, 1897, its application to select the land.
The application was received subject to final action on
Robinson's application. Upon the allowance of Robinson's application and the issue to him of a final certificate
the local land office rejected the application of the railroad
company, from which action the latter appealed to the
Commissioner of the General Land Office. The Commissioner held that, the application of the railroad companyconstituted a valid intervening adverse right such as to

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

bar the substitution by Robinson of the additional homestead right of Heath. On February 25, 1907, the Secretary of the Interior affirmed the decision of the Commissioner. Upon motion for review the decision was affirmed
May 13, 1907, and, on petition for re-review, reaffirmed
,July 18, 1907.
In pursuance of this decision Robinson's entry was
cancelled, and a patent for the land was issued to the
railroad company. The railroad company subsequently
conveyed the land to defendant.
The above facts are not denied. It is alleged by complainants that for many years immediately preceding the
decision holding Robinson's application for cancellation
there was a rule, regulation and settled practice prevailing in the Department providing that upon the rejection
of a soldier's additional homestead right, surrendered by
the assignee thereof in support of an application under
§ 2306 of the Revised Statutes, such applicant might
substitute in support thereof a valid additional homestead
right in place of that rejected.
The existence and validity of the rule is in dispute between the parties and also the legality of the decision of
the Interior Department against Robinson's application.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill and its decree was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals by a divided
court. 178 Fed. Rqp. 230.
The question in the case is very direct. Robinson's application had no legal foundation, Carroll, upon whose
rights it was made, not being entitled to make an additional homestead entry. The question then is, could
Robinson substitute another right and give his application
precedence over the intervening claim of the railroad coinpany? An affirnative answer is contended for by complainants upon the practice of the Land Office. The defendant
denies the existence of the practice and contends, besides,
that, if it be established, it is destitute of legal cffect,'

ROBINSON- v. LUNDRIGAN.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

We have seen that Robinson was given an opportunity
to avert the rejection of his application and support it by
proof of a right in Carroll. He defaulted; but he did not
ask to. reopen the case and establish a legal foundation for
his application, but that he be given thirty days to "rescript" the land. To this the Commissioner of the Land
Office responded, affirming the decision of the local land
office rejecting the application and pronouncing "the
case closed." He was, however, given thirty days to "file
a proper substitute for the right" rejected, and, if he failed
to do so, the local office was directed to hold the tract
"subject to entry from that time by the first qualified applicant."
On October 4, 1905, he filed as a substitute the right of
Justin F. Heath, but on July 11, 1905, the railroad company had selected the lands as lieu lands.. The local land
office rejected the application of the railroad company on
account of conflict with Robinson's entry, subject, however, to the right of appeal. An appeal was taken and
Robinson moved to dismiss it. The motion was denied
on the authority of the departmental decisioi in the case
of the Southern Pacific Railway Co.v. CharlesP. Maginnis,
Assignee of William R. Davis, in which it was decided, the
facts being substantially the same, "that a substitution
could not be allowed in the face of an intervening adverse
right." The decision was affirmed by Secretary Hitchcock
and successively upon review and re-review by Secretary
Garfield and Acting Secretary Woodruff.
Against these rulings complainants urge previous departmental practice. This practice Robinson urged in his
petition for review, and cited in support of it the case of
Germania Iron Co. v. ,fames, 89 Fed. Rep. 811. To the
contention and the case the Acting Secretary replied as follows: "In that case the court held that a just and reasonable rule of administration adopted and applied by the
Department, became a rule of property and could not be
VOL. ccxxvi-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

altered to the prejudice of those who had initiated rights
u(nder such practice. But the rule contended for by coun-el as governing the case under consideration is neither
reasonable or just. Robinson attempted to initiate a right
by relying upon the invalid claim of another, and insists
that even though the Department would be unwarranted
inrecognizing such claim he should be allowed to perfect
the right thus asserted to the prejudice of a valid intervening right, of which he had notice, by the substitution

of another and different right. The simple statement of
the facts destroys all the argument in support of such a
practice. There is neither reason nor equity in it. Had
Robinson been clothed with a right in himself, independent of any right claimed through his assignor, another
question might be presented. But such is not the case, as
he was relying solely upon the rights obtained by assignment, and of these the first was worthless and prior to the
assertion of the second the right of another had attached.
The arbitrary destruction of this intervening right in the
manner contended for by counsel would be wholly unwarranted."
Little need be added to this reasoning. We are not disposed to review the cases by which it is contended the
practice is established. It could only prevail if it were a
reasonable administration of the statute. Webster v.
Luther, 163 U. S. 331, 342.
Under § 2304 of the Revised Statutes every private
soldier and officer who had served in the Army or Navy of
the United States during the War of the Rebellion is entitled to enter under the homestead laws 160 acres of land.
We omit the qualifying conditions. Section 2306 provides
that every person mentioned in § 2304 who has entered
under the latter section less than 160 acres "shall be permitted to enter so much land as, when added to the quantity previously entered, shall not exceed one hundred and
sixty acres." This provision is tt)e foundation of Robin-

ROBINSON v. LUNDRIGAN.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

son's rights. In Webster v. Luther, supra, these sections
were considered and it was decided that the right given by
§ 2306 was intended as compensation and was assignable.
When assigned, however, it is the right of the soldier which
is transferred and which must be used to make an entry.
Necessarily the right must exist before it can be exerted
either by him or his assignee. Or, to put it in another way,
a baseless or fraudulent, claim cannot initiate or sustain a
right. Hence the distinction made by Acting Secretary
Woodruff between a right in Robinson and a right in his
assignor and the observation that "had Robinson been
clothed with a right in himself, independent of any right
claimed through his assignor, another question might be
presented." Hence, also, the decision of Secretary Garfield
that "No right of entry is gained by the filing of an invalid
application to enter, and upon the rejection thereof the
rights of subsequent applicants attach in the order in which
they are asserted. By admitting the rights of substitution, irrespective of the intervening rights, the mere filing
of an individual soldier's additional application would in
effect amount to a segregation of the land." And again,
"The refusal of the Department to adopt such a practice
does not prejudice the holder of a valid right. The only
value of such right lies in the power of the holder to enter
thereunder any land subject t6 it at the date of filing his
application. This right is not denied in the present case,
as the land there involved was subject thereto only in
event there were no prior adverse claims asserted upon
which entry should be allowed. The right itself is not
destroyed by refusing to allow entry thereunder of this
particular tract. The purchaser still has all that he bargained for, and the mere fact that his purchase may have
been made upon the mistaken idea that lie would be entitled as a matter of. right to exercise it upon a particular
tract of land does not entitle him to equitable consideration
as against a prior, and therefore superior, right of another."

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

The ruling was right. Each application must depend
upon its particular basis. And it cannot be kept open for
the substitution of another right than that upon which it
was made. If one substitution can be permitted, successive substitutions can be permitted, and there might arise
the condition of things condemned in Moss v. Dowman,
176 U. S. 413. In that case successive formal entries
under the homestead law and successive relinquishments
of the entries of a tract of land were made. Dowman,
who was. not a party to kthe manipulating process, about
one month prior to the last relinquishment settled upon
the land. It was held that his right attached immediately
upon the filing of the last relinquishment and before the
last entry, though the latter was made on the same day
the relinquishment was filed. It was recognized that the
entry which was given up had segregated the land and
that no right could be initiated while it stood of record,
but it was decided that the instant its relinquishment
was filed in the local office the right of Dowman, the settler
on the land, attached and the Moss entry could not defeat
it. And so in the case at bar, the instant that Robinson's
application was rejected as having no legal foundation the
land became subject to appropriation by another. No
right, therefore, of Robinson was divested by the ruling of
the Department, as contended by complainants, for no
right had attached. His application, based on the right
of Carroll, was not an entry of the land and is not within
the ruling of McMichael v. Murphy, 197 U. S. 304, that
an entry valid on its face segregates the lands from the
public domain and precludes their appropriation by another so long as it remains undisturbed.
Decree affirmed.

