NOR. PAC. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

355

Statement of the Case.

227 U. S.

NORTHERN

PACIFIC RAILWAY
UNITED STATES.

COMPANY v.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 500.

Argued January 8, 9, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

While punctuation is a fallible standard of the meaning of a statute,
the location of commas in the description of a boundary line may
be considered.
Where there is confusion in the calls bounding land described in a
treaty, the effort of this court should be to execute the intention of
the treaty makers.
Inconstruing a treaty with Indians ceding lands the court will consider
the differences in power and intelligence of the Indians and will not
so construe it as to make it an instrument of fraud to deprive the
Indians of more than they understood they were ceding.
The western boundary of the reservation of the Yakima Indians reserved by treaty of 1855 is defined by the greater boundaries of
nature which the Indians understood and estimated and so held
that the main ridge of the Cascade Mountains is the western boundary and not the inferior ridges and spurs.
The action of the Land Department in approving a survey-of a treaty
reservation must be given strong consideration, but is not always
controlling, and quwre whether the rule that such action should only
be disturbed for clear and convincing reason applies when the Government is proceeding in behalf of the Indians.
The rule that resolves doubts in favor of patents issued by the United
States does not apply to those issued for land within the boundaries
of an Indian reservation fixed by treaty.
The act of March 2, 1896, 29 Stat. 42, was one of a series of acts and
applies only to public lands open to entry and not to lands within an
Indian, reservation.
Purchasers from railroads, even though .in good faith, are not bona fide
purchasers under the public land laws.
191 Fed, Rep. 947, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of certain patents

for land issued to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company
and the construction of the treaty of 1855' with the
Yakima Indians, are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Mr. Charles Donnelly, with whom Mr. Charles W. Bunn
was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Knaebel, with whom
Mr. S. W. Williams was on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JusTIcE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Bill in equity by the United States to annul patents
issued May 10, 1895, and January 6, 1896, to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, and March 5, 1901, and
January 4, 1904, to its successor, the Northern Pacific
Railway Company, for certain described lands. The
foundation of the bill is that the patents were issued by
mistake ag public lands granted to the railroad company
under the act of Congress dated July 2, 1864 (13 Stat.
365, c. 217), the lands actually being, it is alleged by the
Government, part of the Yakima Indian Reservation under a treaty with the Yaldmas of, June 9, 1855 (12 Stat.
951), ratified March 8, 1859, and proclaimed by the President April 18, 1859.
There is no question made of the title of the railroad
and railway companies or of their respective vendees other
,than as the lands fall within or without the reservation.
If they were within the boundaries of the reservation they
were lands of the Indians; otherwise, pubhle lands of the
United States and passed to the. companies, respectively,
under the act of Congress and the patents issued in pursuance thereof.
The question then is, What were the boundaries of the
reservation, or-to use the present tense as the more convenient-what are the boundaries of the reservation?
By article 1 of the treaty the Indians ceded, relinquished
and conveyed .to the United States a tract of land which
was explicitly described, reserving by article 2, from the
tract the land included Within the following'boundaries-

NOR. PAC. RY. CO.
227 U. S.

'.

UNITED STATES.

357

Opinion of the Court.

"Commencing on the Yakima River, at the mouth of
the Attah-nam River; thence westerly along said Attahnam River to the forks; thence along the southern tributary to the Cascade Mountains; thence southerly along
the main ridge of said mountains, passing south and east
of Mount Adams, to the spur whence flows the waters
of the Klickitat and Pisco rivers; thence down said spur
to the divide between the waters of said rivers; thence
along said divide to the divide separating the waters of
the Satass River from those flowing into the Columbia
River; thence along said divide to the"main Yakama, eight
miles below the mouth of the Satass River; and thence up
the Yakama River to the place of beginning."
All of this tract, it is provided, "shall be set apart,
and, so far as necessary, surveyed and marked out, for
the exclusive use and benefit" of the Indians, as an Indian
reservation.
It will be observed that the calls in the description of
the tract reserved are very confident and seem to assure certainty by prominent and unmistakable natural
monuments. Controversies, however, almost immediately
arose, the Indians contending for one location of the calls
and enterprising settlers contending for another. The
Interior Department ordered a survey, which was made
and which is known in this record as the Schwartz survey.
Upon this the title of appellants depends. The discontent
of the Indians continued and another survey was ordered
by the Interior Department to be made by E. C. Barnard.
This survey is the foundation of the bill and of the contention of the Government. It was made and reported
to the Interior Department with a map delineating the
exterior boundaries of the reservation. This report was
transmitted to the Speaker of the House of Representatives with a draft of a bill granting authority for the detail
by the Secretary of the Interior of an Indian inspector
to negotiate an agreement with the Indians for the adjust-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

ment of their claim for the lands embraced in the tract
.claimed by them, containing 293,837 acres, as shown by
the Barnard report, that is, for lands without the Schwartz
but within the Barnard survey.
In pursuance of the recommendation of the Secretary
of the Interior, Congress, on December 21, 1904, enacted
the statute quoted in the margin.1 (33 Stat. 595, c. 22.)
After the passage of the act the Government demanded
a reconveyance of the lands, which was refused. This
suit was then brought.
The controversy in the case, therefore, turns upon which
of the surveys, Schwartz' or Barnard's, correctly marks
the boundaries of the reservation. The difference in the
surveys amounts to 293,837 acres. The Circuit Court
accepted the Barnard survey and entered a decree cancelling the patents. The decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 191 Fed. Rep. 947.
SiEc. 1. That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby,
authorized and directed, as hereinafter provided, to sell or dispose of

unallotted lands embraced in the Yakima Indian Reservation proper,
in the State of Washington, set aside and established by treaty with
the Yakima Nation of Indians, dated June eight, eighteen hundred and
fifty-five: Provided, That the claim of said Indians to the tract of land
adjoining their present reservation on the west, excluded by erroneous
boundary survey and containing approximately two bundred and
ninety-three thousand eight hundred and thirty-seven acres, according
to the findings, after examination, of Mr. E. C. Barnard, topographer
of the Geological Survey, approved by the Secretary of the Interior
April seventh, nineteen hundred, is hereby recognized, and the said
tract shall be regarded as a part of the Yakima Indian lReservation for
the purposes of this Act: Provided further, That where valid rights

have been acquired prior to March fifth, nineteen hundred and four,
to lands. within said tract by bona fide settlers or purchasers under the
public land laws, such rights shall not :be abridged, and any claim of
-said Indians to these lands is hereby declared to be fully compensated
for by the expenditure of money heretofore made for their benefit and

in the c6nstruction of.irrigation wors on the Yakima Indian Reservation.

NOR

227 U. S.

PAC. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

359

Opinion of the Court.

The special controversy in the case is the location of the
western boundary of the reservation. But as partly
determinative of that the western point of the northern
boundary must be considered. The northern boundary
of the reservation commences at the junction of the Yakima and Attahnam rivers and proceeds to the forks of
the latter and along its southern tributary to the "Cascade
Mountains." What constitutes the Cascade Mountains
is the first serious dispute in the case. The appellants
contend that the. mountains are given location by the
termination of the southern tributary of the Attahnam
River. In other words, the headwaters of that tributary
mark the Cascade Mountains. But the next call is to be
considered. By that calf tie line is to run "southerly
along the main ridge of said mountains," and as said by
the Circuit Court, the line must reach the main ridge to
run southerly along it. The court erred, appellants contend, by assuming that the treaty makers meant to
designate the main ridge of the mountains instead of a
ridge of the mountains. We cannot, of course,, reproduce
all of the argument of counsel.- It is, in effect, that the
treaty makers meant what they saidi that their knowledge
w.as not, imperfect, that they knew where the waters of
the .Attahnam River terminated and they turned south
from there along "that ridge of those mountains" in
which they found themselves. Assuming this, it is said,
"every difficulty in following the calls of the treaty at
once disappears." But the difficulties do not disappear;
,they multiply, and mountains and rivers appear to conflict in their testimony. The next call mdst be changed
to be accommodated to counsels' view. That call', in full,
is this: "Thence southerly along the main ridge of said
mountains [Cascade Mountains], passing south and east
of Mount Adams, to-the spur whence flows the waters, of
the Klickitat and Pisco Rivers." Counsel would strike
out the comma after the word "mountains" and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

: 227 U. S.

comma after the word "Adams," asserting then the main
ridge to be that which passes (passing) south and east of
Mount Adams to the spur whence flows the waters of the
Klickitat and Pisco rivers. In, other words, the call
primarily locates and defines the ridge and not the boundary line. And so change the call, it is further said, and
there is intelligible continuity between it and the next call,
which reads, "thence downsaid spur (whence flow the
waters of the Klickitat and Pisco rivers) to the divide between the waters of said rivers." Punctuation, it may be
admitted, is a fallible standard of the meaning of a statute
(Ewing v. Burnet, 11 Pet. 41, 54; Hammock v. Loan &
Trust Co., 105 U. S. 77, 84, 85). It is, however, not without force, and in the present case the location of the
commas is consistent with the purpose of simply marking
the course of the boundary line. But even without
changing the punctuation, counsel contend "that the
words 'passing south and east of Mount Adams' qualify
the word 'mountains' and indicate which ridge was intended, namely a main ridge (as distinguished from spurs
or 'subdivides') which should pass south and east of
Mount Adams." We cannot assume a plurality of main
ridges and that the treaty meant to distinguish one from
the others. The main ridge necessarily had a definite
and conspicuous individuality and needed no identification. It is used in Article 1 of the treaty to mark the
course of the boundary line of the tract ceded by the
Indians to the United States. The Indians always claimed
it as the western boundary of the reservation and the
earliest maps confirmed the claim. Schwartz had no
difficulty in determining it. He did not run his line to it
because he considered other calls were more controlling.
He was in no uncertainty as to its location. It was and is
a natural and conspicuous landmark and was selected to
define the immense area of land ceded by the Indians to
the United States and the lesser though extensive tract

NOR. PAC. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

361

Opinion of the Court.

reserved by them for their own use. We must keep in

mind their situation-what they gave and what they reserved. They were not deeding, as the Government
forcibly says, acres or even townships. They gave up a
principality. They reserved, it is true, a much lesser
tract, but it was natural and inevitable that "the greater
boundaries of nature" should be selected to define both.
These the Indians could understand and estimate., "The
inferior ridges or spurs, connected with but leading away
from the main ridge," could not be so definitely intelligible.
The Indians had to be satisfied. They entered into
negotiations with the*representative of the Government
reluctantly, their chief testified. They feared the encroachments of the white man. Their fears were allayed
by adapting the treaty to their understanding, .by delineating the land they conveyed and the land they reserved by great and commanding objects. They have
never indicated by word or act that the main ridge was
not single and distinct in their minds or'that it was at any
time confounded by them with lesser ridges. They never
have wavered in the expression of their understanding
and their insistence that it constituted the western boundary of the reservation and that it extendedto the base of
Mount Adams on the south. They always had, as -we
shall see, an intelligible conception of the western boundary and its definition by natural objects. It is only by
regarding this understanding and the more prominent
natural objects that the calls of the treaty can be accommodated to the topography of the country.

Some of the natural objects, considered by themselves,
it may be admitted support the contention of appellants.
The most important of these is that mentioned in the
fifth call of .the treaty. According to the fourth call the
line runs southerly along the main ridge to the spur whence
flow the waters of the Klickitat and Pisco rivers, .*and
(5th) "thence down said spur to the di4de between the waters

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

of said rivers." (Italics ours.) It was this call; which determined Schwartz' survey. He knew that the main
ridge of the Cascades is west of the tributary of the Attahnam River, but he put it out of consideration or effect.
He regarded what he conceived to be the divide between
thewaters of the Klickitat and Pisco rivers as dominating
all other calls, although he was directed to confer with the
agent at the Yakima Agency, with other white persons
and with Indians familiar with the country, and obtain
all the information possible and that would tend to a
proper location and establishment, according to the provisions of the treaty, of the section of the boundary line he
was directed to survey. He did not run his line to the
main ridge of the mountains, because, as he said, he
"could not do it without crossing the Klickitat River, and
the treaty did not call for that." This was his error. He
gave too much strength to some of the calls of the treaty
and against other calls without attempting to give them
all effect from a consideration of the topography of the
country and the testimony he was directed to take. In
this attitude of mind he made his survey and, seems: to
have rejected everything which would disturb it.
We realize that there is confusion in the calls, irreconcilability, it may be from some points of 'view; but
our effort must be to ascertain and execute the intention
of the treaty makers, and as an element in the effort we
have declared that concession must be made to the understanding of the Indians in redress of the differences in the
power and intelligence of the contracting parties. United
States v. Winans, 198 U. S. 371. The present case invokes
in special degree the principle.
As we have seen, there were certain conspicuous landmarks which would attract the attention and be intelligible to the understanding of the Indians. Lesser marks
would be given no significance, We have already observed
the importance in this regard of the main ridge of thie

NOR. PAC. BY. COV ..
227 U.S.

[m

VNITID STATES.

36,.

(f lhe (ourt,

mountains, and it was given emphasis besides' by such a
conspicuou object as Mount Adams. Mr. Barnard testified that Goat Rocks are prominent points on the main
ridge an( that. Indian Chief Spencer told him that the
northern line extended westvi'a
from the head of the
Attahnani River to a share point east of Goat Rocks,
which point was plainly -isible and a well-marked feature
in the landscape, and that the boundary line extended to a
conical: hump on the southeast slope of Mount Adams,
which is well defined and plainly visible. The map niade
by,the direetion of (Iovernor Stevens in 1857, to show the
]I Idian reservations in Washington Territory at that time,
and,,also the White Swan map show that the northerni
boundary runs to the main ridge of the mountains.
The Stevens map, though vouched for by him to be
accurate, has many inaccuracies, as now demoiisirated
byva better knowledge of the country, and adds to the coilfusion if we seek to extend its testimony beyond a eo.firemat ion of the Indians' claim that the main ridge of the
mountains is the western line of the reservation. By it
the south: fork of the Attahnam River is made to renhel
the summit of the Cascade far west of Mount Adams, and
the line is run thence for some distance south on the ridge;
thence .southeasterly to the divide between the Sat ass
and Coluinbia rivers. The tract delineated is relatively
narrow from north to south, due probably, as the Government, says, to a misunderstanding of the true situation of
the, Satass-Columbia divide and a failure to bring the
west line down, the main ridge to the southeasterly slope
ofUMount Adams as required by the treaty. There is
another inaccuracy. The map shows the Klickitat River
as heading west of the spur upon which Mount Adams is
represented as rising. The mistake, now known to be
such, shows how imperfect knowledge of the count ry was
and the importance of giving effect to the more conilmalding features ofthe landscnpe.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

Schwartz turned from the 51st mile post sharply north,
deeming, as we have seen, the divide between the waters
of the Klickitat and Pisco rivers as controlling. But to
the west of the 51st mile post there is a mountain called
Grayback, which the Indians claim was on the boundary
line of the reservation. Schwartz disregarded it, although
he testified that there was a ridge running westerly from
a point a little south of the 51st mile post terminating in
the Grayback mountain. He did not follow that ridge,
he says, because it formed the divide between the waters
of the Klickitat and Columbia rivers and did not form
the watershed of the waters flowing into the Satass River.
And yet Barnard, considering the calls of the treaty and
in adaptation of them to the topography of the country,
followed that ridge as part of the southern boundary, and
in 1861 it was surveyed as part of the southern boundary.
The survey is called the Berry & Lodge survey and was
made by the direction of the Superintendent of Indian
Affairs for the Territory of Washington. He directed them
to proceed from the Yakima River westerly along the
divide between-the Satass and Columbia rivers and along
the divide between the Klickitat and Pisco rivers until
they arrived at the source of either the latter or the former,
where they should terminate the survey. He added:
"Should you find before arriving at the source of either
of these rivers that the 'divide' has assumed the character
of a perfect natural boundary, you will terminate your
survey at the point where this description of boundary is
attained." The plat of the survey indicates that the south
boundary was run to a point on or near the Klickitat
River and marks that stream as originating on the south
slope of Mount Adams and flowing thence southwesterly.
It also shows a tributary of the Pisco River as headed near
the east side of the mountain and a spur of hills projecting
between them southeasterly to meet the ridge constituting
the Satass-Columbia divide. The field notes of the survey

NOR. PAC, RY. CO. r. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

are attached to the Government's brief and have this
note: "South boundary only was surveyed, in accordance
with the instructions of the Superintendent. The other
boundaries are defined naturally." Some of the marks
and posts of this survey were found by Barnard.
One other piece of evidence needs only to be adduced.
Two Indians, one of them Chief Spencer, told him that
in 1860 they accompanied certain Government agents of
Governor Stevens along the southern boundary of the
reservation,. proceeding along a well defined ridge to Grayback Peak, upon the summit of which a marked wooden
post was found set in the ground. From there, the agents
told them, after sighting through an instrument pointed at
n conical hump on the southeast slope of Mount Adams,
that the line went straight to that point. This account
was subsequently repeated. Chief Spencer (it was to this
chief that Governor Stevens addressed himself in regard
to the Indians removing to the reservation) testified that
Governor Stevens promised to stake out the -reservation
and that some Government men, while standing with
him at the junction of an Indian trail on a road called the
Goldendale Road and which is marked on the Barnardmap as being between Mount Adams and Grayback,
told him that the line ran from one to the other and that
Goat Rocks would be the northwest corner. He further
testified that at the forks of the road and the trail there
was a blazed tree on one side and a pile of rocks on the
other. The statement received corroboration from
Barnard, who testified that he discovered a blaze forty
years old upon one of two large pine trees at the place
indicated, both of which had been anciently blazed.
There is evidence which may be adduced in corroboration of the testimony of the respective witnesses, but we
have referred to enough to indicate the character and
relative strength of that which makes for or against the
coi1 ention.s of the partics, and, considerately weighing

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

it, we think it establishes the correctness of the Barnard
survey. And we have arrived at and announce this
conclusion with full sense of the weight which should be
given to the action of the Land Department in approving
the Schwartz survey and the issue of the patents. The
action of the Land Department is necessarily a strong
consideration. But it is opposed by later action and also
by congressional action. At any rate, the action of the
department has been brought in controversy, and because it may be supported by plausible or even strong
arguments, it does not follow that the opposing claim
becomes immediately so doubtful as to determine judgment against it. On the contrary, the question must. be
examined and decided with due regard to the entire situation, keeping in mind the action of the department as an
element to be considered and applying the rule of the cases
'that it should not be disturbed except for reasons that are
clear and convincing, assuning, without deciding, that
the rule applies to a case in which the Government is proceeding in the right of the Indians.
The Court of Appeals expressed the view that the rule
that resolves doubts in favor of the patent issued by the
United States does not apply in such case, citing Leavenworth Railroad Co. v. United States, 92 U. S.733; Stewart
v. United States, 206 U. S. 185; Minnesota v. Hitchcock,
185 U. S. 373. Much can be said in support of that
view. It must be borne :in mind that the Indians had
the primary right. The rights the Government has are
derived through the cession from the: Indians. If the
Government may control the cession and control the
survey and by the action of its agents foreclose inquiry'
or determine it, an easy means of rapacity is afforded,
much quieter but as effectual as fraud. We should hesitate
to put the Government in that attitude. It rejects that
attitude and accepts a greater responsibility. It yields
to the rule which this court has declared --that it "will

NOR. PAC. RY. C(). v. UNITED STATES.
227 U. S.

367

Opinion of the Court.

construe a treaty with the Indians as 'that unlettered
people' understood it, and 'as justice and reason demand
in all cases where power is exerted by the strong over
those to whom they owe care and protection,' and counter:poise the inequality 'by the superior justice which looks
only to, the substance of the right without regard to
technical rules,' 119 U. S. 1; 175 U. S. 1." United States v.
Winans, supra.
It is contended that the Northern Pacific Railway
Company and the individual appellants are bona Jide
purchasers and, as such, entitled to protection under the
act of March 2, 1896 (29 Stat. 42, c. 39). Section 1 of
that act provides that suits brought by the United States
to vacate and annul any patent to lands theretofore erroneously issued under a railroad or wagon road grati;
should only be brought within five years from the passage
of the.act, and suits brought to annul patents issued after
the passage of the act should be brought within six years.
And it is prov'ided "That no patent to any lands held by a
bona fide purchaser shall be vacated or annulled, but the
right and title of such purchaser is-hereby confirmed'"
The7 act was one of a series of acts and manifestly applies
only to the public lands of the Unitdd-States subject to
:acquisition under the laws enacted for the disposition 4f
the public domain,
We have seen that 'the ,act of. Deeeiber 21, '1904,
protects rights acquired prior to Marcht5, 1904; to huids
within the Barnard survey "by bona fide settlers or purchasers under the public land laws."
The appellants are not within that class, nor for! the
reasons we have stated cah they avail themsel--es of ,the
defense of the statute of limitations under ยง 8 ofthe
eets of March 3, 1891. 26 Stat. 1093, 1099, c. 559, 561.
D-eiree affirnied.

