OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

GRAND TRUNK WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. CITY OF SOUTH BEND.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 81.

Argued Pecember 10, 11, 1912.-Decided February 24, 1913.

What the contract alleged to be impaired by subsequent legislation is,
is a question which this court is bound to determine for itself independent of decisions of the state court. Northern Pacific Ry. v.
Duluth, 208 U. S. 590.
An ordinance conferring a street franchise, passed by a municipality
under legislative authority, creates a valid contract binding and
enforceable according to its terms. Louisville v. Cumberland Telephone Co., 225 U. S. 430.
While a validly granted franchise to use streets of a municipality may
be regulated as to its use by subsequent, ordinances, or repealed if its
operation becomes injurious to public health or morals, the franchise,
if not injurious to public health or morals, cannot be repealed and
destroyed.
The police power of the State cannot be bartered away; but it cannot
be used to abrogate a valid and innocuous franchise.
Tracks laid in a street under legislative authority become legalized, and
when used in the customary manner cannot be treated as unlawful
either in maintenance or operation.
Inconvenience natural to the proper i4se of a properly granted fLanchise
cannot be made the basis of exercising the police power to destroy
the franchise.
The power to regulate implies the existence and not the destruction of
the thing to be controlled.
A franchise to maintain and operate a double track railway is an entirety, and if valid the municipality cannot abrogate it as to one of
the tracks, either as to all or as to a part of the distance for which it
was granted. Baltimore v. Trust Company, 166 U. S. 673, distinguished.
'The contract clause prevents a State from impairing the obligation of a
contract, whether it acts through the legislature or a municipality
exercising delegated legislative power.
The ordinance of South Bend, Indiana, of 1868, permitting a railway
company to lay a double track through one of its streets, and which
had been availed of as to part of the distance, was a valid exercise of

GRAND TRUNK WEST'RN RY. v. SOUTH BEND.
227 U. S.

545

Statement of the Case.

delegated legislative power, and no power to alter or repeal having
been reserved, a subsequent ordinance repealing the franchise as to
the'double track was not, a valid exercise of the police power to regulate the franchise, but an impairmerrt of the contract and unconstitutional under the contract clause of the Constitution.
174 Indiana, 203, reversed.

IN 1866 a charter was granted by the State of Indiana
to plaintiff's predecessor in title whereby it was authorized
to build a railroad from the Michigan line west through
South Bend to the Illinois line in the direction of Chicago.
The City of South Bend was a stockholder in this company
and, in 1868, passed an ordinance granting the company
the right to construct its railroad through the streets of
the city, no more than one track to be laid, except that
the privilege was granted to lay a double track along
Division street from the Bridge over St. Joseph's River to
Taylor street. The road was constructed and a single
track was built in 1871.
Thereafter, in,1881, the company acquired by condemnation and purchase, from the abutting owners on Division.
street, the right to use a strip 18 feet in width on which to
lay a double track and soon afterward constructed the
same on Division street for about half the permitted distance. This double track was constantly used, and in
1901 the business of the company hadso increased that it
was necessary to double-track the entire line, and the
company had so built 157 miles from Port Huron westward
antd was preparing to construct the balance of the double
track -n Division street, when the city, on October 14,
1901, repealed so much of the ordinance of 1868 as gave
the right to a second track in Division street. Later when.
the work of construction was begun the mayor ordered
the employ6s to desist and threatened to arrest any who
should undertake to construct such double track.
The company thereupon filed a bill, asking that the city
be enjoined from interfering with the building of the
VOL. ccxxlI-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
227 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

balance of the double track. It alleged that the city was
a stockholder in the original company and in one of the
successors, and knew of the acquisition of the 18-foot
strip in Division street; that at all times it had recognized
the validity of the contract as an entirety and from time
to time required the railroad to incur expenses called for
thereunder, and was estopped from denying the validity
of the double track privilege.
The bill alleges that when the ordinance of 1868 was
passed it was understood the double track could be laid
whenever the business of the company made it necessary;
that in consequence of the increase of business it is now essential to the successful operation of plaintiff's freight and
passenger business that it should maintain a second track
in Division streetas by said ordinance authorized; and that
to facilitate and accommodate the present volume of such
traffic, said double line "is particularly necessary because
of the fact that plaintiff's freight and passenger stations
in South Bend are located adjacent to Division Street,
between St. Joseph's River bridge and General Taylor
street, and at said station the trains, both passenger and
freight, passing over plaintiff's road, have to stop for
train orders. The obstructing of the general public in the
use of said street by passing trains will be much less when
two tracks are used than it now is, when all trains, both
ways, have to pass over a single track; that said street is
82 g feet wide and that there is ample room thereon for
general travel and for said double track."
The plaintiff claims that the "original Ordinance of
1866 constituted a contract in its entirety,

.

.

.

is

irrepealable by said city either in whole or in part, and
that said Ordinance of repeal is void as violative of said
contract and plaintiff's right thereunder as being in conflict with Section 10 of Article I of the Constitution of the
United States."
The city demurred. Later it withdrew the demurrer

GRAND TRUNK WEST'RN RY. v. SOUTH BEND.
227 U. S.

547

Argument for Defendants in Error.

and filed an answer. Subsequently it withdrew the answer
and filed a general demurrer, which was sustained by the
Circuit Court. On appeal the Supreme Court of Indiana
held that there was no charge that the city proposed to
remove the double track already laid, and that the
pleadings, properly construed, only involved the right to construct the balance of the double track; that even if the
Ordinance of 1866 was a contract it did not prevent the
city from exercising the police power, and affirmed the
judgment. (174 Indiana, 203.)
Mr. George W. Kretzinger, Jr., and Mr. A. B. Browne,
with whom Mr. George W. Kretzinger was on the brief,
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Harry R. Wair, with whom Mr. Iden S. Romig and
Mr. Louis T. Michener were on the brief, for defendants in
error:
The City of South Bend had the power to repeal and
set aside the grant of the right to lay down the additional
track on Division street between Michigan and Taylor
streets. Ordinance 62 is not an irrepealable contract.
Facts in pleadings must be positively averred and not
set out by way of recital, inference or conclusion, and no
facts will be presumed to exist in favor of a pleading which
have not been averred or alleged. Wabash R. R. Co. v.
Beedle, 173 Indiana, 437; Wabash R. R. Co. v. Hasset, 170
Indiana, 370; Chicago & Erie R. R. Co. v. Lain, 170
Indiana, 84, 90.
Whether the grant is a license or a contract, it is subject
to the police power of the municipality.
The mere fact that plaintiff in error enjoys contract
rights in the street is not controlling. Those who enter
into such contract relations with the city as render their
property reasonably subject to control do so with the
knowledge that the police power is an inalienable and con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendants in Error..

227 U. S,

tinuing authority in the city. Indiana Iiy. Co. v. Calvert,
168 Indiana, 321; Baltimore -. Guaranty Co., 166 U. S. 673;
Vandalia R. R. Co. v. State, 166 Indiana, 219.
When a state court has construed a statute this court
will accept that construction, and the.power of determining the meaning of a statute carries with it the power to
describe its extent and limitation as welt as a method by
which they shall be determined. Smiley v. Kansas, 196
U. S. 447-455; Martin v. West, 222 U. S. 196; Chicago v.
Sturges, 224 U. S. 321; Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas
Co., 220 U. S. 73; Chamber of Commerce v. Boston, 217
U. S. 194; Gatewood v. North Carolina,203 U. S, 541.
The repealing ordinance was a proper exercise of the
police power; the power of legislating for the protection
of the public in'the streets of the city is held by the city
council in trust, and cannot be the subject of an irrevocable
contract; a city council cannot limit its legislative discretion in the future by contract or grant so as to deprive
itself of its police power; the power of regulation and control of streets is a continuing power to be exercised at all
times Jor public benefit. Vandalia R. R. Co. v. South
Bend, 166 Indiana, 219; Indiana Ry. Co. v. Calvert, 168
Indiana, 321; Laurel Hill Cemetery v. San Francisco, 216
U. S. 358, 365; Peru v. Gleason, 91 Indiana, 567; Lake
Roland Elevated Ry. Co. v. Baltimore, 26 Atl. Rep. 510;
Baltimore v. Baltimore Trust Co., 166 U. S. 673; Wabash
Ry. Co. v. Defiance, 167 U. S. 88; C., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 170 U. S. 57; N. Y. & N. E. Ry. Co. v. Bristol, 151
U. S. 556; Board of Education v. Phillips, 73 Pac. Rep. 97;
Snouffer v. Cedar Rapids Ry., 92 N. W. Rep. 79; Clarendon
v. Rutland Ry. Co., 52 Att. Rep. 1057; Thorpe v. Railway,
27 Vermont, 141; Binninger v. New York, 69 N. E. Rep.
390; PresbyterianChurch v. New York, 5 Cow. 542.
The police power is but another name for the power of
government and legislation and cannot be judged by
theoretical standards but must be tested by the concrete

GRAND TRUNK WEST'RN RY. v. SOUTH BEND.
227 U. S.

549

Argument for Defendantb in Error.

conditions which induced it, and this court will not
oppose to legislation under the police power its notions of
its necessity for such legislation in determining whether
the legislation is arbitrary and unreasonable and not
designed to accomplish a legitimate public purpose.
Mutual Loan Co. v. Martell, 222 U. S. 232-234; Laurel Hill
Cemetery Co. v. San Francisco,216 U. S. 358, 365.
Whether such an ordinance is a license or a contract,
the real question is: is it repealable? Where privileges
are given to a private corporation and subsequent regulation attempted is purely a matter of private concern, the
facts come within the Dartmouth College doctrine, but
this doctrine does not apply to the public contracts or
charter legislation of municipalities, which are more in the
nature of licenses and not irrepealable contracts. Ordinance No. 62 is not in the class of contracts which a
municipality makes as a property holder, but was ,an
exercise by the city of its delegated legislative powers.
Vandalia R. R. Co. v. South Bend, 166 Indiana, 219;
Indiana Ry.°Co. v. Calvert, 168 Indiana, 321; Indianapolis
&c. R. R. Co. v. State, 37 Indiana, 489; Meyer v. Boonville, 162 Indiana, 165; Wabash Ry. Co. v. Defiance, 167
U. S. 88; Binninger v. City of New York, 69 N. E. Rep.
390; Lake Roland Elevated v. Baltimore, 26 Atl. Rep. 510;
Snouffer v. Cedar Rapids Ry., 92 N. W. Rep. 79, at 83;
Logansport Ry. Co. v. Logansport, 114 Fed. Rep. 688;
Citizens' Ry. Co. v. City Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 647; Citizens'
Co. v. City Co., 56 Fed. Rep. 746.
Neither the condition of the title of the plaintiff in
error nor its relations with abutting property owners is
important. If the repealing ordinance of 1901 is a valid
exercise of the police power, it matters not whether plaintiff in error is deprived of the benefit of an easement, a
privilege, a contract, or a license. Black's Const. Law,
pp. 290, 293, 298; Clarendon v. Rutland Ry. Co., 52 Atl.
Rep. 1057.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

227 U. S.

The railroad company's complaint shows on its face
that the privilege of laying a double track on Division
street between Michigan and General Taylor Streets was
never exercised. The repealing ordinance of 1901, if void,
is void only on the ground that it is not a proper exercise
of' the police power.
The repealing ordinance of 1901 is not based upon nonuser. Power is sometimes reserved to alter, amend or
repeal grants, but the police power also necessarily extends
to grants which do not contain any express reservation.
Gale v. Kalamazoo, 23 Michigan, 343.
The repealing ordinance of 1901 concerns not only the
use of -the street for convenience of public travel, but also
the protection of human life. Subjects of much less importance have properly been held to be within the scope of
the police power. International Text Book Co. v. Weissinger, 160 Indiana, 349; Fry v. State, 63 Indiana, 552;
Adams Exp. Co. v. State, 161 Indiana, 328; Given v. State,
160 Indiana, 552; Stone v. Missi&sippi, 101 U. S. 814: State
v. Woodward, 89 Indiana, 110; Barbier v. Connolly, 113
U. S. 27; Gaslight Co. v. Columbus, 33 N. E. Rep. 292;
Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36.
An estoppel may be raised against a private corporation
even when it has not the power to act, but no estoppel can
be raised against a public corporation.' St. Paul v. Minnesota Transfer Co., 80 Minnesota, 108; 83 N. W. Rep. 32;
Rissing v. Fort Wayne, 137 Indiana, 427.
Neither the question -of estoppel nor the question of
laches, when raised in the state court, present or involve
a Federal question. Speed v. McCarthy, 181 U. S. 269,
275; Moran v. tlorsky, 178 U. S. 205.
This court will take judicial notice that every additional
track placed longitudinally along the streets and crossing intersecting streets increases the danger of the public and inconvenience to travel. 1 Elliott on Evidence, §§ 39,42 and 62.
The court will also take judicial notice of the population

GRAND TRUNK WEST'RN RY. v. SOUTH BEND.
227 U. S.

551

Opinion of the Court.

of the City of South Bend as shdwn by the United States
census since its incorporation as follows:
Population in 1850.,.... 1,652.
Population in 1910 ..... 53,684.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
in 1868 the City Council of South Bend, by ordinance,
granted plaintiff's predecessor in title the right to lay a
double track over a part of Division street. The Company
built a single track in 1871 and a double track for part of
the way in 1881, but, on attempting in 1902 to extend it,
for the balance of the authorized distance, was prevented
from doing so because the city had repealed so much of
the ordinance of 1868 as related to double tracks. In the
record here it appears that, in the-litigation which followed,
the action of the city was sustained on the ground that the
repeal was presumptively a reasonable exercise of the
police power and not a legislative impairment of the contract ordinance.
The assignment of error on this ruling presents a question which this court is bound to decide for itself, independent of decisions of the State court, Northern Pacific
Ry. v. Duluth, 208 U. S. 583, 590. In doing so it is necessary first to determine whether the city had legislative
authority to pass the ordinance, for,-if there was no such
power, the grant was void and the repeal was not so much
the impairment of the obligation of a contract as the withdrawal of an assent to occupy the streets.
We are, however, relieved of the necessity of making
any extended inquiry on this primary question, because
the Indiana statute provided that the railroad might be
built through any city that would give its consent. In a
suit by an abutting owner, the Supreme Court of the
State, construing this very ordinance of 1868, held that

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

the city had power to pass it, "the laying out and operating
of the railway being a new and improved method of using
the streets germane to its principal object." Dwenger v.
Chicago & Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 98 Indiana, 153. In other
cases that court held that the statute authorized cities to
grant franchises to lay tracks in the streets; that such an
ordinance created that whichisin the nature of a contract
"which the municipality its"elf cannot materially impair."
Williams v. Citizens' Ry., 130 Indiana, 71, 73; Town of New
Castle v. Lake Erie & W. R. Co., 155 Indiana, 18, 24. These
rulings accord with the decisions in other jurisdictions and
by this court in Louisville v. Cumberland Telephone Company, 225 U. S. 430, holding that an ordinance conferring
a street franchise, passed by a municipality under legislative authority, created a valid contract binding and enforceable according to its terms.
2. If, then, the City of South Bend was authorized to
pass this ordinance which granted an easement, the contract cannot be impaired unless, as claimed by the defendant, the railroad took subject to a right to amend or
repeal in the exercise of the police power. And many cases
are cited in support of the proposition that the grant of
authority to use the streets of a city does not prevent the
subsequent passage of ordinances needed for the preservation of the public safety and convenience. Some of the
cases turned on the question as to the city's want of legislative power to make the grant in the first instance. Others
held that charter grants did not prevent the State from
subsequently repealing franchises which in their operation
were injurious to the morals or health of the public, as in
the Lottery, Liquor and Fertilizer cases. Stone v. Mississippi, 101 U. S. 814; Boston Beer Co. v. Massachusetts,
97 U. S. 25; Northwestern Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde Park,
97 U. . 659. Others related to the change of paving,
grade and location of viaducts. All of them recognize the
municipality's control of the use of the streets by travellers

GRAND TRUNK WEST'RN RY. v. SOUTH BEND. 553
227 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

on foot or in vehicles, as well as the use by companies
which havea franchise to lay tracks over which to haul
cars.
Undoubtedly the railroad here took no vested interest
in the maintenance of the laws or regulations of force when
the ordinance was passed in 1868, but the rights -acquired
were subject to the power of the municipality, to pass
reasonable regulations necessary to secure the public
safety. Northern Pac. R. R. v. Duluth, 208 U. S. 583.
And while the franchise to lay and use a double track was
a contract which could not be impaired, yet, as the police
power remained efficient and operative, the municipality
had ample authority to make regulations necessitating
changes of a nature which could not have been compelled
if the grant had been from it as a private proprietor. The
city could, therefore, legislate as to crossings, grades, character of rails, rate of speed, giving of signals and the details
of operating track and train, regulating the use of the
franchise, and preserving the concurrent rights of the public and the company. And, is in the viaduct cases, it might
require these tracks to be lowered or elevated (Chicago,
B. & Q. R. R. v. Nebraska, 170 U. S. 57), or,-the franchise, and not the particular location, being the essence
of the contract, the city, under the power to regulate,
might compel the company to remove the tracks from the
center to the side, or from the side to the center of the
street. New OrleansGas Light Co. v. DrainageCommission,
197 U. S.453; Macon &c. R. R. v. Mayor, 112 Georgia, 782;
A tlahtic & B. Ry.v,Cordele, 128 Georgia,293, 296; Snouffer
v. Cedar Rapids & M. C. Ry. Co., 118 Iowa, 287 (5).
These, however, are examples of the persistence of the
power to regulate and do not sustain the validity of the
repealing ordinance of 1901, since it is not regulative of
the use but destructive of the franchise. .In every case
like this involving an inquiry as to whether a.law is valid,
as an exertion of the police. power, or Void, as impairing

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

the obligation of a contract, the determination must depend on the nature of the contract and the right of government to make it. The difference between the two classes
of cases is that which results from the want of authority
to barter away the police power, whose continued existence is essential to the well-being of society, and the undoubted right of government to contract as to some matters and the want of power, when such contract is made,
to destroy or impair its obligation. New Orleans Gas Co.
v. LouisianaLight Co., 115 U. S. 650.
The State, with its plenary control over the streets,
had this governmental power to make the grant. There
was nothing contrary to public policy in any of its terms,
and being valid and innocuous, the police power could not
be invoked to abrogate it as a whole or to impair it in part.
Walla Walla v. Walla Walla Water Co., 172 U. S. 1, 17.
Tracks laid in a street, under legislative authority, become legalized, and, when used in the customary manner, cannot be treated as unlawful either in maintenance
or operation. As said by this court, "a railway over
the

.

.

.

streets of the city of Washington, may be

authorized by Congress, and if, when used with reasonable
care, it produces only that incidental inconvenience which
unavoidably follows the additional occupation of the
streets by its cars with the noises and disturbances necessarily attending their use, no one can complain that he
is incommoded." Baltimore & Potomac R. R. Co. v. Fifth
Baptist Church, 108 U. S. 317, 331. The inconvenience
consequent upon the running of a railroad through a city,
under state authority, is not a nuisance in law, but is
insuperably connected with the exercise of the franchise
granted by the State. If the police power could lay hold
of such inconveniences, and make them the basis of the
right to repeal such an ordinance, the contract could be
abrogated because of the very growth in population and
business the railroad was intended to secure.

GRAND TRUNK WEST'RN RY. v. SOUTH BEND.
227 U. S.

555

Opinion of the Court.

The power to regulate implies the existence and not
the destruction of the thing to be controlled. And while
the city retained the power to regulate the streets and
the use of the franchise, it could neither destroy the public
use nor impair the private contract, which, as it contemplated permanent and not temporary structures, granted
a permanent and not a revocable franchise. Both the
street and the railroad were arteries of commerce. Both
were highways of public utility, and both were laid out
subject to the authority of the State, though the power
to regulate the use of the streets has been delegated to the
municipality. So that while the company was itself authorized to select the route between the terminal points
named in the charter, it could not use streets without the
consent of the city through which the line ran. In determining whether they would grant or refuse that consent
the municipal authorities were obliged to balance the
present and prospective inconveniences of having trains
operated through its streets against the advantage of
having the railroad accessible to its citizens. It could have
refused its consent, except on terms; it could have forced
the road to the outskirts of the town, or could have permitted the company to lay tracks in the more thickly
settled parts of the city. When such consenit was once
given the condition precedent had been performed and
the street franchise was thereafter held, not from the city,
but from the State which, however, did not confer tI)oii
the municipality any authority to withdraw that con, elio
nor was there any attempt by the council to reserve such
power in the ordinance itself.
It is said, however, that even if the city could not prevent the use of the rails already laid, it could repeal so
much of the ordinance as related to that part of the street
on which the double track had not been actually built.
But this was not a grant of several distinct and separate
franchises, where the acceptan ce an - use of one did not

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

necessarily execute the contract as to others not connected
with the main object of the ordinance and not at the time
directly within the contemplation of the parties. Pearsall
v. Great Northern R.R., 161 U,. S. 646, 673. This franchise
was single and specific, and when accepted and acted upon
became binding,-not foot by foot, as the rails were laidbut as an entirety. Here the company not only accepted
the ordinance and constructed the road, but, relying on
the franchise, acquired from the abutters by purchase or
condemnation an 18-foot strip with a view of laying
thereon a double track as the increase in business made
that necessary. Subsequently it built the double ,track
for a part of the distance and has not abandoned or forfeited the right to use the balance of the easement when
needed for the discharge of its public duties as a carrier.
The ordinance passed in pursuance of the Indiana statute was an entirety. When accepted it became binding in
its entirety. If the city has the, right to repeal the specific
provisions of the cotitract, it has the like right to repeal
the more general grat to lay a single track. If South
Bend can do so, every other municipality having granted
like rights, under similar ordinances, and affecting every
line of railway in the country, can repeal the franchise to
use double or single track. On the ground of congestion
of traffic, the State's grant and command to operate a
continuous road could be nullified by municipal action,
to the destruction of great highways of commerce, similar
in their nature to the street itself. Such consequences,
though improbable, are rendered impossible by the provision of the Constitution of the United States prohibiting
the impairment of the obligation of a contract by legislation of a State, whether acting through a General Assembly or a municipality exercising delegated, legislative
power. Mercantile Trust Company v. Columbus, 203 U. S.
311, 320; New Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana Light Co., 115
U. S. 650; City Ry. Co. v. Citizens' R. R., 166 U. S. 557.

GRAND TRUNK WEST'RN RY; v. SOUTH BEND. 557
227 U. S..

Opinion of the Court.

See also Hestonville &c. R. R. v. Philadelphia, 891 Pa. St.
210 (3); Suburban R. T. Co. v. Mayor, 128 N. Y. 510, 520;
Asbury Park Ry. v. Neptune Township, 73 N, J. Eq. 323,
329-332; Brunswick & Western R;. R. Co. v. Mayor, 91
Georgia, 573; Workman v. R. R., 129 California, 536;
Africa v. Knoxville, 70 Fed, Rep. 729; Burlington v. Burlington S. R. R., 49 Iowa, 144; Town of Arcata v. Arcata
& M. R. R. Co., 92 California, 639; Detroit v. Detroit & H.
P. R. R. Co., 43 Michigan, 140, 147; City of Seattle v.
Columbia & P. S. R. R., 6 Washington, 379; City of
Noblesville v. Lake Erie & W. R. R., 130 Indiana, 1.
"Obviously, upon the clearest considerations of law and
justice, the grant of authority to defendant when accepted
and acted upon, became an irrevocable contract, and the
city is powerless to-set it aside." St. Louis v. Western
Union Telcgraph Co., 148 U. S. 92, 103.
The defendant relies on Baltimore v. Baltimore Trust &
G. Co., 166 U. S. 673, where, however, the facts were
materially different. For there the company had a sweeping grant to lay double tracks through many miles of the
streets. The city repealed the ordinance so far as it related
to a short distance in a crowded part of Lexington street,
which, as appears in the original record, varied from 48
to 50 feet in width, the sidewalks being about eleven feet
in width and the roadway proper being about 29 feet
from curb to vurb. With double tracks, there was only
712 feet from the curb to the nearest rail, and, allowing
for the oi,erh:ung of Ibe car, this space was not wide enough
to permiit, vans and large wagons to pass. At some points
buggies and narrow vehicles could only pass by running
the wheels on the edge of the sidewalk. These, facts are
wholly different from the situation disclosed by this record,
where the sweepi-.g grant conferred the right to lay a
single track, but the specific grant "immediately within
the contemplation of the parties" (Pearsall v. Great
Northcri Ry., 161 U. S. 646, 673) was a definite franchise

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

to construct this particular double track between designated points, on Division street, which is 82Y2 feet wide,
or 32 feet wider than Lexington street. It is admitted
that a double track has been actually used on it for more
than 20 years.
The statute and the ordinance, in the Baltimore Case,
were also materially different from those here involved.
The court declined to decide whether the council had
the power to make an irrepealable contract, it being sufficient to hold that the direction to lay but one track for a
short distance on Lexington street did not substantially
change the terms of the contract, granting such very broad
and general right to lay many miles of double track
throughout the city. But regardless of the construction
there was no impairment, because of the important fact
that the legislature of Maryland had ratified the street
ordinance on condition that it might at any time be
amended or repealed by the city council.
That decision, based on such different facts and on
such different statute and ordinance, is not applicable here
where the city of South Bend sought to repeal a part of a
street franchise granted in pursuance of a state statute
which, while it authorized the city to consent, reserved to
it no such power to repeal. As said in Indianapolis v.
Indianapolis Gas Co., 66 Indiana, 396, 402, such a contract ordinance "does not in the least restrict the legislative powers of the city except, as the sanctity of the
contract is shielded by the Constitution of the United
States, it cannot in the exercise of its legislative power
impair its validity; for it would be a solecism to hold
that a municipal corporation can impair the validity of a
contract, when the State which created the corporation,
by its most solemn acts, has no such power."
The facts stated in the complaint, and admitted by the
demurrer, raise no presumption that the repeal was the
reasonable exercise of the police power, but on the con-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. PORTLAND.
227 U. S.

559

Syllabus.

trary show that the contract of 1868 was materially impaired by the ordinance of 1901 in violation of the provisions of Art. I, § 10, of the Constitution.
The judgment is reversed and the case remandedforfurther
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE DAY concurs in the result on the ground
that the facts stated in the complaint and admitted by
the demurrer raise no presumption that the repeal was
the reasonable exercise of the police power and that
nothing else is necessary to be decided. MR. JUsTICE
HUGHES and Mr. JUSTICE PITNEY dissent.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. CITY OF
PORTLAND.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.
No. 122.

Argued January 6, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

Where, as in this case, a municipal ordinance, granting a franchise to
use streets as authorized by the state .law, expressly reserves to the
city the power to make or alter regulations and to )rohil)it the uv_
of a specified motive power, the grantee cannot accept it and afterwards claim that, as the state law only authorized the designation of
streets, the municipality cannot exert the power reserved to prohibit
the specified motive power without impairing the contract.
Although a municipality cannot defeat a grant made under authority
of the State, it may under the police power reasonably regulate the
method in which it shall be used; such regulations do not defeat the
grant, if it is still practicable to operate under the new regulations.
Railroad Co. v. Richmond, 96 U. S. 521.
The grantee of a franchise to use the streets coupled with conditions
cannot avail of the benefits and deny the validity of the conditions,
or claim that the exercise of the expressly reserved power is a violation of the contract clause of the Constitution.

