OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Counsel for Appellant.

227 U. S.

HOME TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. CITY OF LOS ANGELES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 610.

Submitted October 28, 1912.-Decided February 24, 1913.

One,whose rights protected by a provision of the Federal Constitution
which is identical with a provision of the state constitution are
invaded by state officers claiming to act under a state statute,is not
debarred from seeking relief in the Federal court under the Federal
Constitution until after the state court has declared that the acts
were authorized by the statute.
The provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment are generic in terms
and arc addressed not only to the States but to every person, whether
natural or judicial, who is the repository of state power.
The reach of the Fourteenth Amendment is coextensive with any exercise by a State of power in whatever form exerted.
Under the Fourteenth Amendment the Federal judicial power can
redress the wrong done by a state officer misusing the authority of
the State with which he is clothed; under such circumstances inquiry
whether the State has authorized the wrong is irrelevant. Ex parte
Young, 209 U. S. 123, followed. Barney v. New York, 193 U. S. 430,
distinguished.
Acts done under the authority of a municipal ordinance passed in virtue
of power conferred by the State are embraced by the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The power which exists to enforce the guarantees of the Fourteenth
Amendment is typified by the immediate and efficient Federal right
to enforce the contract clause of the Constitution as against those
violating or attempting to violate its provision.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the District

Court of a suit arising under the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment and the validity of an ordinance
of Los Angeles, California, establishing telephone rates,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. James A. Gibson for appellant.

HOME TEL. & TEL. CO.- v. LOS ANGELES.
227 U. S.

279

Argument for Appellees.

Mr. John W. Shenk and Mr. George E. Cryer for
appellees:
The Fourteenth Amendment is directed against action
by the States themselves and the State of California ha.
taken no action.
The city of Los Angeles is an agent of the State of
California with limited powers, which do not include authority to pass or enforce a confiscatory rate ordinance.
Action by the city of Los Angeles in the exercise of
a state agency, but not within the limits of its authority
from the State, is not state action. Mechanics' Bank of
Alexandria v. Bank of Columbia, 5 Wheat. 326; Louisville
v. Telephone Co., 155 Fed. Rep. 725.
An unauthorized act of a state agent is
not, under
the" authorities, state action, within the meaning of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitutioh of the United
States. Huntington v. New York, 118 Fed. Rep. 683;
aff'd 193 U. S. 440; Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3;
Barney v. New York, 193 U. S. 430; Missouri v. Dockery,,
191 U. S. 165; Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313; Louisville
v. Telephone Co., 155 Fed. Rep. 725; San Francisco v.
United Railroads, 190 Fed. Rep. 507; Memphis v. Telephone Co., 218 U. S. 624; Hamilton Gas Co. v. Hamilton,
146 U. S. 258; United States v. Peralto, 99 Fed. Rep. 624;
Farley v. Kitson, 120 U. S. 314.
The result of this suit does not depend upon the effect
or construction of the Fourteenth Amendment: hence
the suit is not one arising under the Constitution or laws
of the United States. Memphis v. Telephone Co., 218
U. S. 624; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Ann Arbor R. R. Co., 178
U. S. 239; San Francisco v. United Railroads, 190 Fed.
Rep. 507; Seattle Elec. Co. v. Seattle &c. R. Co., 185 Fed.
Rep. 365.
Appellant's arguments considered, defendant is not
estopped to question jurisdiction.
That a suitor has his choice of forum is not denied.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

The guaranty of due process contained in the constitution of California has not been impaired by judicial
construction. Seattle Elec. Co. v. Seattle &c. R. Co., 185
Fed. Rep. 365.
The conclusion does not follow that the adoption of
defendant's contention herein would mean the destruction of Federal jurisdiction to enforce the guaranties of
the Fourteenth Amendment Raymond v. Chicago Union
Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20.
The penal provisions of the ordinance do not operate
to deny to appellant the equal protection of the law, nor
does that phase of the case present an independent ground
for Federal jurisdiction. Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123.
Appellant's authorities do not support its contention
that action by a city, in violation of the state constitution,
is state action. Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223;
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Ex parte Virginia,
100 U. S. 339; Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303;
Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313; Neal v. Delaware, 103
U. S. 370; Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34; Chicago &c.
R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226; Raymond v. Chicago
Union Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20; Memphis v. Telephone
Co., 218 U. S. 624; San Francisco v. Union Railroads,
190 Fed. Rep. 507; Seattle Elec. Co. v. Seattle &c. R. Co.,
185 Fed. Rep. 365; Louisville v. Telephone Co., 155 Fed.
Rep. 725.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The appellant, a California corporation furnishing telephone service in the city of Los Angeles, ,sued the city and
certain of its officials to prevent the putting into effect of a
city ordinance establishing telephone rates for the year
commencing July 1, 1911.
It was alleged that by the constitution and laws of the

HOME TEL. & TEL. CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
227 U. S.

281

Opinion of the Court.

State the city was given a right to fix telephone rates and
had passed the assailed ordinance in the exercise of the
general authority thus conferred. It was charged that the
rates fixed were so unreasonably low that their enforcement would bring about the confiscation of the property
of the corporation, and hence the ordinance was repugnant
to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The averments as to the confiscatory character of the
rates were as ample as they could possibly have been made.
The charge of confiscation was supported by statements
as to the value of the property, and the sum which might
reasonably be expected from the business upon the application of the rates assailed. The confiscatory character
of the rates, it was moreover alleged, had been demonstrated by the putting into effect during the previous year
of rates of the same amount as those assailed which it was
charged the corporation at great sacrifice had after protest
submitted to in order to afford a practical illustration of
the confiscation which would result.
Being of the opinion that no jurisdiction was disclosed
by the bill, the court refused to grant a restraining order
or allow a preliminary injunction, and thereafter, on the
filing of a formal plea to the jurisdiction, the bill was
dismissed for want of power as a Federal court to consider
it. This direct appeal was then taken.
The plea'to the jurisdiction was as follows:
f .
that this Court ought not to take jurisdiction of this suit for that the said suit does not really or
substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly
within the jurisdiction of this Court, for as much as the
Constitution of the State of California, in Article 1, section 13 thereof, provides that 'No person shall be
deprived of life, liberty, or property without due proc,
ess of law'; that this complainant, a citizen of the State
of California, has never invoked the aid or protection
of its said State to prevent the alleged taking of its prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

erty, nor has complainant appealed to the courts of
said State, nor to any of them, to enforce the law of said
State."
The ground of challenge to the jurisdiction advanced
by the plea may be thus stated: As the acts of the state
officials (the city government) complained of were alleged
to be wanting in due process of law and therefore repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment-a ground: which on
the face of the bill, if well founded, also presumptively
caused the action complained of to be repugnant to the
due process clause of the state constitutin-there being
no diversity of citizenship, there was no Federal jurisdiction. In other words, the plea asserted that where, in a
given case, taking the facts averred to be true, the acts
of state officials violated the Constitution of the United
States and likewise because of the coincidence of a state
constitutional prohibition were presumptively repugnant
to the state constitution, such acts could not be treated as
acts of the State within the Fourteenth Amendment, and
hence no power existed in a Federal court to consider the
subject until by final action of an appropriat6 state court
it was decided that such acts were authorized by the
State and were therefore not repugnant to the state
constitution. There is no room for doubt that it was upon
this interpretation of the plea that the court held it had no
power as a Federal court. The court said:
"It is true that the bill in the present case alleges, that,
if the ordinance complained of' is enforced, and your
complainant thereby prevented from charging and receiving higher rates than the rates fixed by said ordinance, the
State of California will thereby deprive your complainant
of its property without due process of law,' etc. This
charge, however, that the ordinance complained of is
state action, is but a legal conclusion, while the. facts
alleged are, that the ordinance, if confiscatory, as shown
by the bill, is directly prohibited by the Constitution of

HOME TEL. & TEL. CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
227 U. S.

283

Opinion of the Court.

the State, which, in article 1, section 13, expressly provides,
amdng other things:
be deprived of life, liberty
"No person shall
.
.
or property without due process of law.
"Thus, the case at bar comes within the rulings of the
Circuit Court of Appeals in the Seattle and San Francisco
cases, and is precisely covered by the conclusions of the
court in the latter case as follows:
"'What we hold is that the averments of the bill itself
exclude the case from the cognizance of the Federal Court
as a case arising under the Constitution of the United
States by alleging that the very ordinances which the
appellees relied upon as constituting a violation of its
contracts have been enacted in violation of the positive
law of the state.' "
It is true that in passages of the opinion subsequent to
those just quoted there are forms of expression which
when separated from their context might tend to justify
the inference that the court thought city ordinances of
the character of the one assailed could not in any event
be treated as state action. But when the passages referred to are considered in connection with the context of
the opinion, it is certain that those expressions were but a
reiteration in a changed form of statement of the previous
ground, that is to say that state action could not be predicated upon the ordinance because if it was treated as
repugnant to the due process clause of the Constitution
of the United States it would also have to be considered
as in conflict with the state constitution. , Under this
hypothesis the decision was that it could not be assumed
that the State had authorized its officers to do acts in
violation of the state constitution until the court of last
resort of the State had determined that such acts were
authorized.
Coming to consider the real significance of this doctrine,
we think it is so clearly in conflict with the decisions of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

court as to leave no doubt that plain error was committed
in announcing and applying it. In view, however, of the
fact that the proposition Was sanctioned by the court
below and was by it deemed to be supported by the per'suasive authority of two opinions of the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, before coming to consider
the decided cases we analyze some of the conceptions upon
which the proposition must rest in order to show Its
inherent unsoundness, to make its destructive character
manifest, and to indicate its departure from the substantially unanimous view which has prevailed from the beginning.
In the first place the proposition addresses itself not to
the mere distribution of the judicial power granted by the
Constitution, but substantially denies the existence of
power under the Constitution over the subject with which
the proposition is concerned. It follows that the limitation which it imposes would be beyond possible correction
by legislation. Its restriction would, moreover, attach
to the exercise of Federal judicial power under all circumstances, whether the issue concerned original jurisdiction
or arose in the course of a controversy to which otherwise
jurisdiction would extend. Thus, being applicable equally
to all Federal courts under all circumstances in every stage
of a proceeding, the enforcement of the doctrine would
hence render impossible the performance of the duty with
which the Federal courts are charged under the Constitutio'n. Such paralysis would inevitably ensue, since the
consequence would be that, at least in every case where
there was a coincidence between a national safeguard or
prohibition and a state one, the power of the Federal court
to afford protection to a claim of right under the Constitution of the United States, as against the action of a State
or its officers, would depend on the ultimate determination of the state courts and would therefore require a
stay of all action to await such determination. While

HOME TEL. & TEL. CO. v. LOS, ANGELES.
227 U. S.

285

Opinion of the Court.

this would be obviously true as to cases where there was
a coincident constitutional guarantee, in reason it is clear
that the principle if sound could not be confined to a case
of coincident Federal and state guarantee or prohibition,
since, as the Constitution of the United States is the paramount law, as much applicable to States, or their officers,
as to others, it would come to pass that in every case
where action of a state officer was complained of as violating the Constitution of the United States, the Federal
courts in any form of procedure, or in any stage of the
controversy, would have to await the determination of a
state court as to the operation of the Constitution of the
United States. It is manifest that in necessary operation
the doctrine which was sustained would in substance
cause the state courts to become the primary source for
applying and enforcing the Constitution of the United
States in all cases covered by the Fourteenth Amendment
It would certainly be open to controversy if the proposition were carried to its logical result whether the only
right under the Fourteenth Amendment, which the proposition admits, to exert Federal judicial power growing
out of wrongful acts of state officers would not be unavailing. This naturally suggests itself since if there be no
right to exert such power until by the final action of a
state court of last resort the act of a state officer has been
declared rightful and to be the lawful act of the State
as a governmental entity, the inquiry naturally comes
whether under such circumstances a suit against the officer
would not be a suit against the State within the purview
of the Eleventh Amendment. The possibility of such a
result moreover at once engenders a further inquiry, that
is, whether the effect of the proposition would not be
to cause the Fourteenth Amendment to narrow Federal
judicial power instead of enlarging it and making it more
efficacious. It must be borne in mind also that the limitations which the proposition if adopted would impose upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the.Court.

227,U. S.

Federal judicial power would not be in reason solely applicable to an exertion of such power as to the persons and
subjects covered by the Fourteenth Amendment, but would
equally govern controversies concerning the contract and
possibly other clauses of the Constitution.
The vice which not only underlies but permeates the
proposition is not far to seek. It. consists first in causing
by an artificial construction the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment not to reach those to whom they are
addressed when reasonably construed; and second in
wholly misconceiving the scope and operation of the Fourteenth Amendment, thereby removing from the control of
that Amendment the great body of rights which it was intended it should safeguard and in taking out of reach of
its prohibitions the wrongs which it was the purpose of
the Amendment to condemn.
Before demonstrating the accuracy of the statement
just made as to the essential result of the proposition relied
upon by a reference to decided cases, in order that the
appreciation of the cases may be made more salient we
contrast the meaning as above stated which the Fourteenth Amendment would have if the proposition was
maintained with the undoubted significance of that
Amendment as established by many decisions of this court.
1. By the proposition the prohibitions and guarantees
of the Amendment are addressed to and control the States
only in their complete governmental capacity, and as a
result give no authority to exert Federal judicial power
until by the decision of a court of last resort of a State,
acts complained of under the Fourteenth Amendment
have been held valid and therefore state acts in the fullest
sense. To the contrary the provisions of the Amendment
as conclusively fixed by previous decisions are generic in
their terms, are addressed, of course, to the States, but
also to every person whether natural or juridical who is
the repository of state power. By this construction the

HOME TEL. & TEL. CO. v. LOS ANGEl VS.
227 U. S.

287

Opinion of the Court.

reach of the Amendment is shown to be coextensive with
any exercise by a State of power, in whatever form exerted.
2. As previously stated, the proposition relied upon presupposes that the terms of the Fourteenth Amendment
reach only acts done by State officers which are within
the scope of the power conferred by the State. The proposition hence applies to the prohibitions of the Amendment the law of principal and agent governing contracts
between individuals and consequently assumes that no
act done by an officer of a State is within the reach of the
Amendment unless such act can be held to be the act of
the State by the application of such law of agency. In
other words, the proposition is that the Amendment deals
only with the acts of state officers within the strict scope
of the public powers possessed by them and does not include an abuse of power by an officer as the result of a
wrong done in excess of the power delegated. Here again
the settled construction of the Amendment is that it presupposes the possibility of an abuse by a state officer or
representative of the powers possessed and deals with
such a contingency. It provides, therefore, 'for a case
where one who is in possession of state power uses that
power to the doing of the wrongs which the Amendment
forbids even although the consummation of the wrong
may not-be within the powers possessed if the commission
of the wrong itself is rendered possible or is efficiently
aided by the state authority lodged in the wrongdoer.
That is to say, the theory of the Amendment is that where
an officer or other representative of a State in the exercise
of the authority with which he is clothed misuses the
power possessed to do a wrong forbidden by the Amendment, inquiry concerning whether the State has authorized the wrong is irrelevant and the Federal judicial power
is competent to afford redress, for the wrong by dealing
with the officer and the result of his exertion of power.
To speak broadly, the difference between the proposi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

tion insisted upon and the true meaning of the Amendment
is this, that the one assumes that the Amendment virtually
contemplates alone wrongs authorized by a State and
gives only power accordingly, while in truth the Amendment contemplates the possibility of state officers abusing
the powers lawfully conferred upon them by doing wrongs
prohibited by the Amendment. In other words, the Amendment, looking to the enforcement of the rights which it
guarantees and to the prevention of the wrongs which it
prohibits, proceeds not merely upon the assumption that
States acting in their governmental capacity in a complete
sense may do acts which conflict with its provisions, but,
also conceiving, which was more normally to be contemplated, that state powers might be abused by those who
possessed them and as a result might be used as the instrument for doing wrongs, provided against all and every
such possible contingency. Thus the completeness of the
Amendment in this regard is but the complement of its
comprehensive inclusiveness from the point of view of
those to whom its prohibitions are addressed. Under
these circumstances it may not be doubted that where a
state officer under an assertion of power from the State
is doing an act which could only be done upon the predicate that there was such power, the inquiry as to the
repugnancy of the act to the Fourteenth Amendment
cannot be avoided by insisting that there is a want of
power. That is to say, a state officer cannot on the one
hand as a means of doing a wrong forbidden by the Amendment proceed upon the assumption of the possession of
state power and at the same time for the purpose of avoiding the application of the Amendment, deny the power
and thus accomplish the wrong. To repeat, for the purpose of enforcing the rights guaranteed by the Amendment
when it is alleged that a state officer in virtue of state
power is doing an act which if permitted to be done prima
facie would violate the Amendment, the subject must be

HOME TEL. & TEL. CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
227 U. S.

289

Opinion of the Court.

tested by assuming that the officer possessed power if the
act be one which there would not be opportunity to perform but for the possession of some state authority.
Let us consider the decided cases in order to demonstrate how plainly they refute the contention here made
by the court below and how clearly they establish the
converse doctrine which we. have formulated in the two
propositions previously stated. As to both the propositions, the cases are so numerous that we do not propose
to review them all, but simply to select a few of the leading cases as types, concluding with a brief consideration
of a few cases which are supposed to give support to a
contrary view.
In Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313, the case briefly was
this: An accused person sought to remove from a state
to a Federal court the trial of an indictment pending
against him on the ground that he was a colored person
and although by the state statute he had a right to have
people of his race serve on juries, that in practice on account of race prejudice they were excluded and thereby
he was denied the equal protection of the laws. Two
questions arose for decision-first, was the alleged exclusion a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, and second,
if it was did it afford ground for a removal of the case?
Considering the first, the court said (p. 318):
"The provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution we have quoted all have reference to State
action exclusively, and not to any action of private individuals.

"

Determining whether the enforcement by the state
officer of a non-.discriminating statute in a discriminatory
manner was within the Amendment, it was said (p. 318):
"It is doubtless true that a State may act through different agencies, either by its legislative, its executive, or its
judicial authorities; and the prohibitions of the amendment extend to all action of the State denying equal proVOL. CCXXVII-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

tection of the laws, whether it be action by one of these
agencies or by another. Congress, by virtue of the fifth section of the Fourteenth Amendment, may enforce the prohibitions whenever they are disregarded by either the Legislative, the Executive, or the Judicial Department of the
State. The mode of enforcement is left to its discretion.
It may secure the right, that is, enforce its recognition, by
removing the case from a State court in which it is denied,
into a Federal court where it will be acknowledged."
Thus holding that the enforcement by a state official
of a statute in a discriminatory manner although the
statute might not be inherently discriminating was within
the Amendment, the question of the right to remove was
considered and it was decided that the removal act of
Congress was narrower than the Constitutional Amendment and did not confer the right to remove.
In Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, the case was this:
A judge of~a Virginia county court was indicted under the
Civil Rights Act for excluding negroes from juries on
account of their race, color, etc. The accused applied
to this court for a writ of habeas corpus and a writ of
certiorarito bring up the record and a like petition was presented on behalf of the State of Virginia, and both applications were disposed of at the same time. The first
issue to be determined was the meaning of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The ruling in Virginia v. Rives was reiterated, the court saying (p. 346):
"They have reference to actions of the political body
denominated a State, by whatever instruments or ini
whatever modes that action may be taken. A State
acts by its legislative, its executive, or its judicial authoriities. It can act in no other way. The constitutional
provision, therefore, must mean that no agency of the
State, or of the officers or agents by whom its powers axe
exerted, shall deny to any person within its jurisdiction
the equal protection of the laws. Whoever, by virtue

HOME TEL. & TEL. CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
227 U. S.

291

Opinion of the Court

of public position under a State government, deprives
another of property, life, or liberty, without due process
of law, or denies or takes away the equal protection of the
laws, violates the constitutional inhibition; and as he acts
in the name and for the State, and is clothed with the
State's power his act is that of the State. This must be
so, or the constitutional prohibition has no meaning. Then
the State has clothed one of its agents with power to
annul or to evade it."
Answering the claim that there was no power to punish
a state judge for judicial action and therefore that the
charge made was not within the Fourteenth Amendment,
it was said that the duty concerning the summoning of
jurors upon which the charge of discrimination was predicated was not a judicial but merely a ministerial one.
It was, however, pointed out that even if this was not the
case, as the state statute gave no power to make the discrimination, it was therefore such an abuse of state power
as to cause the act complained of to be not within the
state judicial authority, but a mere abuse thereof, and
that it was "idle" under such circumstances to say that
the offense was not within the Amendment (p. 348).
In Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370, a discriminating
enforcement in practice of laws which were in their terms
undiscriminating was again held to be within the Amendment, the language which we have quoted from Ex
parte Virginia being reiterated.
In Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.356, the enforcement
of certain city ordinances was prohibited on the ground
that they were within the reach of the Fourteenth Amendment. The court, reiterating the doctrine of Virginia v.
Rives and Ex parte Virginia, held that this conclusion
was sustained from a two-fold point of view-first, the
terms of the ordinances, and second, in any event from
the discriminatory manner in which the ordinances were
applied by the officers.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

In Raymond v. Traction Company, 207 U. S. p. 20, the
whole subject-almost in the identical aspect which is
here involved-came under consideration. The case
concerned the repugnancy to the Fourteenth Amendment
of a reassessment made by a state board of equalization,
and the suit was originally commenced in a Federal court.
It was pressed that as the claim of the complainant was
in effect that the board in the reassessment had violated
an express requirement of the state constitution in that
the board had "disobeyed the authentic command' of
the State by failing to make its valuations in such a
way that every person shall pay a tax in proportion to
the value of his property," the act of the subordinate
board could not be deemed the act of the State. This contention was held to be unsound and it was decided that
even although the act of the board was wrongful from the
point of view of the state constitution or law, it was nevertheless an act of a state officer within the intendment of
the Fourteenth Amendment. It was pointed out that
as the result of the enforcement of the reassessment would
be an assertion of state power accomplishing a wrong
which the Fourteenth Amendment forbade, the claim
of right to prevent such act under the Fourteenth Amendment "constitutes a Federal question beyond all controversy." It was then said (pp. 35-36):
"The state board of equalization is one of the instrumentalities provided by the State for the purpose of raising
the public revenue by way of taxation. . . ..
Acting
under the constitution and laws of the State, the board
therefore represents the State, and its action is the action
of the State. The provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment are not confined to the action of the State through
its legislature, or through the executive or judicial authority.- Those provisions relate to and cover all the instrumentalities by which the State acts, and so it has been
held that, whoever by virtue of public position under a

HOME TEL. & TEL. CO. z. LOS ANGELES.
227 U. S.

293

Opinion of the Court.

state government, deprives another of any right protected by that amendment against deprivation by the
State, violates the constitutional inhibition; and as he
acts in the name of the State and for the State, and is
,clothed With the State's powers, his act is that of the
State."
Referring to some reliance to the contrary placed upon a
decided case, it was said (p. 37):
"Barney v. City of New York, 193 U. S. 430, holds that
where the act complained of was forbidden by the state
legislature, it could not be said to be the act of the State.
Such is not the case here."
The reassessment complained of was held to be repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment.
Finally the subject was elaborately considered in Ex
parte Young, 209 U. S. 123. Without attempting to fully
state the case it suffices to say that although the proceeding was one in habeas corpus, the controversy in its ultimate aspect concerned the power of a Federal court
to prevent the enforcement of railroad rates fixed under
state legislative authority which were confiscatory. In
the course of an opinion reviewing the whole field it was
said (p. 155):
"The various authorities we have referred to furnish
ample justification for the assertion that individuals, who,
as officers of the State, are clothed with some duty in
regard to thu enforcement of the laws of the State, and
who threaten and are about to commenc proceedings,
either of a civil or criminal nature, to enforce against
parties affected an unconstitutional act, violating the
Federal Constitution, may be enjoined by a Federal court
of equity from such action."
Although every contention pressed and authority now
relied upon in favor of affirmance is disposed of by the
general principles which we have previously stated, before
concluding we specially advert -to some of the contentions

OCTOBER TERM, 1012.
Opinion of the Court.

227 U. S.

urged to the contrary. 1. Much reliance is placed upon
the decisions in Barney v. New York, 193 U. S. 430, and
Memphis v. Telephone Co., 218 U. S. 624. The latter we at
once put out of view with the statement that on its face
the question involved was one of pleading and in no sense
of substantive Federal power. As to the other-the
Barney Case-it might suffice to say, as we have already
pointed out, it was considered in the Raymond Case and if
it conflicted with the doctrine in that case and the doctrine
of the subsequent and leading case of Ex parte Young, it is
now so distinguished or qualified as not to be here authoritative or even persuasive. But on the face of the Barney
Case it is to be observed that however much room there
may be for the contention that the facts in that case
justified a different conclusion, as the doctrine which we
have stated in this case was plainly recognized in the
Barney Case and the decision there rendered proceeded
upon the hypothesis that the facts presented took the case
out of the established rule, there is no ground for saying that that case is authority for overruling the settled
doctrine which, abstractly at least, it recognized. If
there were room for such conclusion in view of what we
have said it would be our plain duty to qualify and restrict
the Barney Case in so far as it might be found to conflict
with the rule here applied. 2. In the opinion of the court
below, there is a suggestion that even though the Fourteenth Amendment embraces acts of state officers to the
extent and scope which we have stated, nevertheless the
case here presented is not controlled by the Amendment
since the case concerns not acts of officers done under
state authority, but merely acts of city officials done
under the authority of a municipal ordinance. But, as we
have already pointed out, it was long since settled that
acts done under the authority of a municipal ordinance
passed in virtue of power conferred by a State are embraced by the Fourteenth Amendment.

HOME TEL. & TEL. CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
227 U. S.

295

Opinion of the Court.

Apart, however, from the controlling effect of the
decisions rendered in cases concerning the enforcement
of the Fourteenth Amendment, the unsoundness of the
contention is plainly demonstrated by applying the established principle that the exercise of municipal legislative authority under the sanction of a state law is the
exertion of state legislative power within the purview of
the contract clause of the Constitution (Article I, ยง 10),
declaring: "No State . . . shall pass any
law impairing the obligation of contracts." That this
interpretation is here conclusive must be apparent, since
it cannot be said that an act which is the exertion of
state legislative power for the purpose of one provision of
the Constitution is not the exertion of state legislative
power under the operation of another constitutional provision, both being addressed to the same subject, that is,
state legislative power.
And this gives rise at once to a demonstration from another and more final point of view of the incongruity which
would result from maintaining the contention insisted
upon. While the guarantees of the Fourteenth Amendment cover subjects not included in the contract clause,
since the former 'embraces every manifestation of state
power and the latter is concerned only with legislative
power when exerted so as to impair contracts, yet the
fundamental assertion of Federal power made by each
Amendment is the same when the different subjects to
which each is applicable are put out of view. To illustrate: The -command of the Fourteenth Amendment
"No State shall make any law abridging . .
nor
shall any State deprive any person," etc., is in substance
a manifestation of the same power exerted in the contract
clause, saying "No State shall pass," etc. This being
true, as it must be, the fact that from the foundation of
the Government the contract clause has been enforced
without any intimation that the power manifested by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

227 U. S.

clause was restricted by limitations such as those which
it is here insisted limit the power to enforce the guarantees
of the Fourteenth Amendment, affords the most conclusive
demonstration of the unsoundness of the contentions here
made. The immediate and efficient Federal right to enforce the contract clause of the Constitution as against

those who violate or attempt to violate its prohibition,
which has always been exerted without question, is but
typical of the power which exists to enforce the guarantees
of the Fourteenth Amendment. See authorities as to the
contract clause referred to in the opinion in Ross v. Oregon,
ante, p. 150.

Reversed.

WINFREE, AS ADMINISTRATOR OF PHIPPS, v.
NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 139.

Submitted January 23, 1913.-Decided February 24, 1913.

While there are exceptions, especially in the case of remedial statutes,
the general rule is that statutes are addressed to the future and not
to the past; and, in the absence of explicit words to that effect, statutes are not retroactive in their application.
The Employers' Liability Act of 1908 introduced a new policy and
radically changed existing law and will not be construed as a remedial
statute having retrospective effect.
An action brought under the Employers' Liability Act of 1908 by the
)ersonal representative of the person who was killed prior to the
passage of the act cannot be sustained as stating a cause of action
under the law of the State, where that law gives the action to the
parents.
Darnages to the estate of one killed by negligence is a distinct cause of
action, under the laws of the State of Washington, from damages to
the parents of the person so kilhd,
173 Fed. Rep. 65, affirmed.

