OCTOBER TERM, 1993
Syllabus

NORTHWEST AIRLINES, INC., ET AL. V. COUNTY
OF KENT, MICHIGAN, ET AL.,
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT
No. 92-97. Argued November 29, 1993-Decided January 24, 1994
Respondents, the owner and operators of Michigan's Kent County International Airport (collectively, the Airport), collect rent and fees from three
groups of Airport users: commercial airlines, including petitioners (Airlines); general aviation; and concessionaires such as car rental agencies
and gift shops. The Airport allocates its air-operations costs---e. g.,
maintaining runways-to the Airlines and general aviation in proportion to their airfield use, and its terminal maintenance costs to the Airlines and concessions in proportion to each tenant's square footage. It
charges the Airlines 100% of their allocated costs, but general aviation
only 20% of its costs. The concessions' rates substantially exceed their
allocated costs, yielding a sizable surplus that offsets the general aviation shortfall and has swelled the Airport's reserve fund by more than
$1 million per year. After the County Board of Aeronautics unilaterally increased the Airlines' fees, they challenged the new rates, attacking (1) the Airport's failure to allocate any airfield costs to the concessions, (2) the surplus generated by the fee structure, and (3) the
Airport's failure to charge general aviation 100% of its allocated costs.
They alleged that these features made the fees unreasonable and thus
unlawful under the Anti-Head Tax Act (AHTA)-which prohibits States
and their subdivisions from collecting user fees, 49 U. S. C. App.
§1513(a), other than "reasonable rental charges, landing fees, and other
service charges from aircraft operators for the use of airport facilities,"
§1513(b)-and under the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982
(AAIA). The Airlines also asserted that the Airport's treatment of
general aviation discriminates against interstate commerce in favor of
primarily local traffic, in violation of the Commerce Clause. The District Court held, inter alia, that the Airlines have an implied right of
action under the AHTA, but not the AAIA, and no cause of action under
the Commerce Clause, and that the challenged fees are not unreasonable
under the AHTA. The Court of Appeals affirmed in principal part, but
held that the Airport had misallocated fees for the cost of providing
"crash, fire, and rescue" (CFR) services.

356

NORTHWEST AIRLINES, INC. v. COUNTY OF KENT
Syllabus

Held:
1. The Court declines to decide whether there is a private right of
action under the AHTA but assumes, for purposes of this case, that the
right exists. A prevailing party may defend a judgment on any ground
properly raised below, without filing a cross-petition, so long as that
party seeks to preserve, and not to change, the judgment. The Airport
did not cross-petition on the CFR issue it lost below, and resolving the
private right of action issue in its favor would alter that portion of the
judgment. Pp. 364-365.
2. The Airport's fees have not been shown to be unreasonable under
the AHTA. Pp. 365-373.
(a) The AHTA sets no standards for determining a fee's reasonableness. In the absence of guidance from the Secretary of Transportation,
the Court adopts the parties' suggestion to resolve the reasonableness
issue using the standards stated in Evansville-Vanderburgh Airport
Authority Dist. v. Delta Airlines, Inc., 405 U. S. 707, for determining reasonableness under the Commerce Clause. Although Congress
enacted the AHTA because it found unsatisfactory the end result in
Evansville-the validation of "head" taxes-§ 1513(b) permits "reasonable" charges and the Evansville formulation has been used to
determine "reasonableness" in related contexts, see, e. g., Anwrican
Trucking Assns., Inc. v. Scheiner, 483 U. S.266, 289-290. Thus, the
levy here is reasonable if it (1) is based on some fair approximation
of the facilities' use, (2) is not excessive in relation to the benefits
conferred, and (3) does not discriminate against interstate commerce.
Evansville, supra, at 716-717. Pp. 365-369.
(b) The Airport's decision to allocate air-operations costs to the Airlines and general aviation, but not to the concessions, appears to "reflect
a fair, if imperfect, approximation of the use of facilities for whose benefit they are imposed." Evansville, 405 U. S., at 716-717. While those
operations generate the concessions' customer flow and, thus, benefit
the concessions, only the Airlines and general aviation actually use the
runways and navigational facilities. Accepting the District Court's
finding that the Airlines were charged only the break-even costs, the
Court concludes that the fees in question were not "excessive in comparison with the governmental benefit conferred." Id., at 717. Nor is the
Airport's methodology unlawful because it generates large surpluses.
Since § 1513(b) applies only to fees charged to "aircraft operators," it
does not authorize judicial inquiry focused on the surplus generated
from the concessions' fees. The Court rejects the Airlines' argument
that it should take into account concession revenues, as the Seventh
Circuit did in a 1984 decision, when deciding whether the Airlines' fees
are reasonable. The Seventh Circuit overlooked the Department of

Cite as: 510 U. S. 355 (1994)
Syllabus
Transportation's regulatory authority regarding the federal aviation
laws. In view of the Department's authority, there is no cause for
courts to offer a substitute for conventional public utility regulation.
While the AAIA directly addresses the use of airport revenues, the
Airlines do not suggest that the Airport has misused the funds in violation of that Act and did not seek review of the lower courts' ruling that
they had no AAIA cause of action. Finally, the record in this case does
not support the Airlines' argument that the lower general aviation fees
discriminate against interstate commerce and travel. There is no proof
that the large and diverse general aviation population served by the
Airport travels typically intrastate and seldom ventures beyond Michigan's borders. Pp. 369-373.
3. The fees do not violate the "dormant" Commerce Clause. Even if
the AHTA's express permission for States' imposition of reasonable fees
were insufficiently clear to rule out dormant Commerce Clause analysis,
the Court has already found the challenged fees reasonable under the
AHTA using a standard taken directly from the Court's dormant Commerce Clause jurisprudence. Pp. 373-374.
955 F. 2d 1054, affirmed.
GINSBURG, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J., and STEVENS, O'CONNOR, SCALIA, KENNEDY, and SOUTER, JJ.,
joined. THOMAS, J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 374. BLACKMUN,
J., took no part in the consideration or decision of the case.

Walter A. Smith, Jr., argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the briefs was Jonathan S. Franklin.
William F. Hunting, Jr., argued the cause for respondents. With him on the brief were Mark S. Allard, Robert
A. Buchanan, and Michael M. Conway.

Edward C. DuMont argued the cause for the United
States as amicus curiae urging affirmance. With him on
the brief were Solicitor General Days, Assistant Attorney
General Hunger, Deputy Solicitor General Wallace, William Kanter, Christine N. Kohl, Paul M. Geier, and Dale
C. Andrews.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Air Transport
Association of America by Mary E. Downs; for Thrifty Rent-A-Car System, Inc., by Randall J Holder and Nancy Glisan Gourley; and for the

358

NORTHWEST AIRLINES, INC. v. COUNTY OF KENT
Opinion of the Court

JUSTICE GINSBURG delivered the opinion of the Court.

Seven commercial airlines, petitioners in this case, assert
that certain airport user fees charged to them are unreasonable and discriminatory, in violation of the federal Anti-Head
Tax Act (AHTA), 49 U. S. C. App. § 1513, and the Commerce
Clause. Because the record, as it now stands, does not war-

rant a judicial determination that the fees in question are
unreasonable or unlawfully discriminatory, we affirm the
judgment of the Court of Appeals.
I
A
The user fees contested in this case are charged by the
Kent County International Airport in Grand Rapids, Michigan. The Airport is owned by respondent Kent County and

operated by respondents Kent County Board of Aeronautics
and Kent County Department of Aeronautics (collectively,
American Trucking Associations, Inc., by Andrew L. Frey, Andrew Ji Pincus, Daniel R. Barney, and Robert Digges, Jr.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State of
New Hampshire et al. by Jeffrey R. Howard, Attorney General of New
Hampshire, and Monica A Ciolfi, Assistant Attorney General, Grant
Woods, Attorney General of Arizona, Daniel E. Lungren, Attorney General of California, Robert A Butterworth, Attorney General of Florida,
Bonnie J Campbell, Attorney General of Iowa, Michael E. Carpenter,
Attorney General of Maine, Frank J Kelley, Attorney General of Michigan, Joseph P. Mazurek, Attorney General of Montana, Frederick P
DeVesa, Acting Attorney General of New Jersey, Heidi Heitkamp, Attorney General of North Dakota, Mark Barnett, Attorney General of South
Dakota, and James E. Doyle, Attorney General of Wisconsin; for the City
of Los Angeles by James K. Hahn, Gary R. Netzer, Breton K. Lobner, Steven S. Rosenthal, and Anthony L. Press; for the Aircraft Owners
and Pilots Association by John S. Yodice; for the Airports Council
International-North America by Patricia A Hahn; for the American
Association of Airport Executives by Scott P Lewis; for the National
Business Aircraft Association, Inc., et al. by Raymond J Rasenberger;
and for the U. S. Conference of Mayors et al. by Richard Ruda.

Cite as: 510 U. S. 355 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

the Airport). Petitioners are seven commercial airlines
serving the Airport (the Airlines).
The Airport collects rent and fees from three groups of
users: (1) commercial airlines, including petitioners; (2) "general aviation," i. e., corporate and privately owned aircraft
not used for commercial, passenger, cargo, or military service; and (3) nonaeronautical concessionaires, including car
rental agencies, the parking lot, restaurants, gift shops,
"rent-a-cart" facilities, and other small vendors. Since 1968,
the Airport has allocated its costs and set charges to aircraft
operators pursuant to a "cost of service" accounting system
known as the "Buckley methodology."' This system is designed to charge the Airlines only for the cost of providing
the particular facilities and services they use.2
Under its accounting system, the Airport first determines
the costs of operating the airfield and the passenger terminal, and allocates these costs among the users of the facilities. Costs associated with airfield operations (e. g., maintaining the runways and navigational facilities) are allocated
to the Airlines and general aviation in proportion to their
use of the airfield. No portion of these costs is allocated
to the concessions. Costs associated with maintaining the
airport terminal are allocated among the terminal tenantsthe Airlines and the concessions-in proportion to each tenant's square footage.3
The Airport then establishes fees and rates for each user
group. It charges the Airlines 100% of the costs allocated
to them, in the form of aircraft landing and parking fees (for
use of the airfield), and rent (for the terminal space the Air' See James C. Buckley, Rental Fee Recommendations (Feb. 1969),
App. 223-275.
21n contrast, "residual cost" accounting systems base rates and fees on
the total cost of operating the airport. See Brief for City of Los Angeles
as Amicus Curiae 5.
sThe parking lot is owned and operated by the Airport itself and is not
material to this dispute.

360

NORTHWEST AIRLINES, INC. v. COUNTY OF KENT
Opinion of the Court

lines occupy).4 General aviation, however, is charged at a
lower rate. The Airport recovers from that user group a
per gallon fuel flowage fee for local aircraft and a landing fee
for aircraft based elsewhere. These fees account for only
20% of the airfield costs allocated to general aviation.
In relation to costs, the Airport thus "undercharges" general aviation. At the same time, measured by allocated
costs, the Airport vastly "overcharges" the concessions.
The Airlines pay a cost-based per square foot rate for their
terminal space. The concessions, however, pay market
rates for their space.5 Market rates substantially exceed
the concessions' allocated costs and yield a sizable surplus.6
The surplus offsets the general aviation shortfall of approximately $525,000 per year, and has swelled the Airport's reserve fund by more than $1 million per year.
B
Using the "Buckley methodology" just described, the Airlines and the Airport periodically negotiated and agreed
upon fees to be charged through December 31, 1986. Following a new rate study made in 1986, the Airport proposed
increased fees beginning January 1, 1987. App. 193 (Plaintiffs' Exh. 6). The Airlines objected to the higher fees and
failed to reach an agreement with the Airport. Ultimately,
the County Board of Aeronautics adopted an ordinance
unilaterally increasing the fees.7 On the effective date of
4

The Airlines are also charged for the cost of providing "crash, fire, and
rescue" services, and amortization fees for assets acquired by the Airport.

I Most concessions pay

10% of their gross receipts as rent for space.
6For example, the Airport's annual net revenues from 1987 to 1989
ranged from approximately $1.6 million to $1.9 million.
(Plaintiffs' Exhs. 301 and 355).

App. 278-279

7The ordinance increased aircraft landing fees by $.20 per thousand
pounds, and increased terminal rent charges by $6.67 per square foot for
prime heated and air-conditioned space, $.59 per square foot for nonprime
air-conditioned space, and $1.84 per square foot for nonprime, heated, nonair-conditioned space. The ordinance also decreased aircraft parking fees
by $.12 per thousand pounds. 738 F. Supp. 1112, 1115 (WD Mich. 1990).

Cite as: 510 U. S. 355 (1994)

Opinion of the Court

the ordinance, April 1, 1988, the Airlines sued the Airport,
primarily challenging post-December 31, 1986, rates. The
Airlines attacked (1) the Airport's failure to allocate to the
concessions a portion of the airfield costs, (2) the surplus
generated by the Airport's fee structure, and (3) the Airport's failure to charge general aviation 100% of its allocated
airfield costs. These features, the Airlines alleged, made
the fees imposed on them unreasonable and thus unlawful
under the AHTA, as added, 87 Stat. 90, and as amended, 49
U. S. C. App. § 1513, and the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982 (AAIA), 96 Stat. 686, as amended, 49
U. S. C. App. §2210. The Airlines also asserted that the
Airport's treatment of general aviation discriminates against
interstate commerce in favor of primarily local traffic, in
violation of the Commerce Clause, U. S. Const., Art. I, §8,
cl. 3.
The parties filed cross-motions for summary judgment.
In the first of three opinions, the District Court denied the
motions, holding that the Airport's cost methodology is not
per se unreasonable. App. to Pet. for Cert. 57. In its second opinion, the District Court held that the Airlines have
an implied right of action to challenge the fees under the
AHTA but not under the AAIA, and that the Airlines have
no cause of action under the Commerce Clause. Id., at 4246. Following a bench trial, the District Court issued its
third and final opinion, concluding that the challenged fees
are not unreasonable under the AHTA. 738 F. Supp. 1112
(WD Mich. 1990).
The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit affirmed the
District Court's judgment in principal part. 955 F. 2d 1054
(1992). In accord with the District Court, the Court of Appeals held that the AHTA impliedly confers a private right
of action on the Airlines, but the AAIA does not. Id., at
1058. On the merits, the Court of Appeals (1) upheld as
reasonable under the AHTA the bulk of the charges that the
Airport imposes on the Airlines, and (2) rejected the Air-

362

NORTHWEST AIRLINES, INC. v. COUNTY OF KENT
Opinion of the Court

lines' dormant Commerce Clause claim on the ground that
the AHTA regulates the area. Id., at 1060-1064.
On one matter, however, the Court of Appeals reversed
the District Court's judgment and remanded the case. The
District Court had upheld as reasonable under the AHTA
the Airport's decision to allocate to the Airlines 100% of the
costs of providing "crash, fire, and rescue" (CFR) services.
738 F. Supp., at 1119. Emphasizing that the CFR facilities
service all aircraft, not just the Airlines, the Court of Appeals held that the Airport must allocate CFR costs between
the Airlines and general aviation. 955 F. 2d, at 1062-1063,
1064.
Petitioning for this Court's review, the Airlines challenged
the Court of Appeals' adverse rulings on the AHTA and
Commerce Clause issues. The Airport did not crosspetition for review of the Sixth Circuit's judgment to the
extent that it favored the Airlines; specifically, the Airport
did not petition for review of the remand to the District
Court for allocation of the costs of CFR services between
the Airlines and general aviation. We granted certiorari,
508 U. S.959 (1993), to resolve a conflict between the decision
under review and a decision of the Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit, IndianapolisAirport Authority v. American Airlines, Inc., 733 F. 2d 1262 (1984), which declared key
parts of a similar fee structure unreasonable under the
AHTA.
II
A
In Evansville-Vanderburgh Airport Authority Dist. v.
Delta Airlines, Inc., 405 U. S.707 (1972), this Court held that
the Commerce Clause does not prohibit States or municipalities from charging commercial airlines a "head tax" on passengers boarding flights at airports within the jurisdiction,
to defray the costs of airport construction and maintenance.
We stated in Evansville: "At least so long as the toll is based

Cite as: 510 U. S. 355 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

on some fair approximation of use or privilege for use,...
and is neither discriminatory against interstate commerce
nor excessive in comparison with the governmental benefit
conferred, it will pass constitutional muster, even though
some other formula might reflect more exactly the relative
use of the state facilities by individual users." Id., at
716-717.
Concerned that our decision in Evansville might prompt
a proliferation of local taxes burdensome to interstate air
transportation, Congress enacted the AHTA. See Aloha
Airlines, Inc. v. Director of Taxation of Haw., 464 U. S. 7,
9-10 (1983) (summarizing history of AHTA's enactment);
S. Rep. No. 93-12, p. 4 (1973) (Congress intended AHTA to
"ensure ... that local 'head' taxes will not be permitted to
inhibit the flow of interstate commerce."); id., at 17 ("The
head tax ... cuts against the grain of the traditional Ameri-

can right to travel among the States.").
The AHTA provides in pertinent part:
"(a) Prohibition; exemption
"No State (or political subdivision thereof ... ) shall

levy or collect a tax, fee, head charge, or other charge,
directly or indirectly, on persons traveling in air commerce or on the carriage of persons traveling in air commerce or on the sale of air transportation or on the gross
receipts derived therefrom ....

"(b) Permissible State taxes and fees
"[N]othing in this section shall prohibit a State (or
political subdivision thereof... ) from the levy or collec-

tion of taxes other than those enumerated in subsection
(a) of this section, including property taxes, net income
taxes, franchise taxes, and sales or use taxes on the sale
of goods or services; and nothing in this section shall
prohibit a State (or political subdivision thereof . .. )
owning or operating an airport from levying or collecting reasonable rental charges, landing fees, and other

364

NORTHWEST AIRLINES, INC. v. COUNTY OF KENT
Opinion of the Court

service charges from aircraft operators for the use of
airport facilities." 49 U. S. C. App: § 1513.
Primarily, the Airlines urge that the Airport's fees overcharge them in violation of the AHTA. Before reaching
that issue, however, we face a threshold question. The
United States as amicus curiae and, less strenuously, the
Airport, urge that the Airlines have no right to enforce the
AHTA through a private action commenced in a federal
court of first instance. Instead, they maintain, complaints
under the AHTA must be pursued initially in administrative
proceedings before the Secretary of Transportation, subject
to judicial review in the courts of appeals.
The threshold question is substantial: If Congress intended no right of immediate access to a federal court under
the AHTA, then the Airlines' AHTA claim should have been
dismissed, not adjudicated on the merits as it was, indeed in
part favorably to the Airlines. However, the Airport ified
no cross-petition for certiorari seeking to upset the judgment to the extent that it rejected the Airport's CFR cost
allocation (100% to the Airlines) as inconsonant with the
AHTA. For that reason, we decline to resolve the private
right of action question in this case.
A prevailing party need not cross-petition to defend a
judgment on any ground properly raised below, so long as
that party seeks to preserve, and not to change, the judgment. See, e.g., Thigpen v. Roberts, 468 U.S. 27, 29-30
(1984). A cross-petition is required, however, when the respondent seeks to alter the judgment below. See, e. g.,
Trans World Airlines, Inc. v. Thurston, 469 U.S. 111, 119,
n. 14 (1985); United States v. New York Telephone Co., 434
U. S.159, 166, n. 8 (1977); FederalEnergy Administration v.
Algonquin SNG, Inc., 426 U. S.548, 560, n. 11 (1976); United
States v. ITT ContinentalBaking Co., 420 U. S.223, 226-227,
n. 2 (1975). Alteration would be in order if the private right
of action question were resolved in favor of the Airport.
For then, the entire judgment would be undone, including

Cite as: 510 U. S. 355 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

the portion remanding for reallocation of CFR.costs between
the Airlines and general aviation. The Airport's failure
to file a cross-petition on the CFR issue-the issue on
which it was a judgment loser-thus leads us to resist the
plea to declare the AHTA claim unfit for District Court
adjudication.8

The question whether a federal statute creates a claim for
relief is not jurisdictional. See Air Courier Conference v.
Postal Workers, 498 U. S. 517, 523, n. 3 (1991); Burks v.
Lasker, 441 U. S. 471, 476, n. 5 (1979); Mt. Healthy City Bd.
of Ed. v. Doyle, 429 U. S. 274, 278-279 (1977); Bell v. Hood,

327 U. S. 678, 682 (1946). Accordingly, we shall assume,
solely for purposes of this case, that the alleged AHTA private right of action exists.
B
The AHTA prohibits States and their subdivisions from
levying a "fee" or "other charge" "directly or indirectly" on
"persons traveling in air commerce or on the carriage of
persons traveling in air commerce." 49 U. S. C. § 1513(a).
Landing fees, terminal charges, and other airport user fees
of the sort here challenged fit § 1513(a)'s description. As we
confirmed in an opinion invalidating a state tax on airlines'
gross receipts, § 1513(a)'s compass is not limited to direct
"head" taxes. Aloha Airlines, 464 U. S., at 12-13.
But § 1513(a) does not stand alone. That subsection's prohibition is immediately modified by § 1513(b)'s permission.
See Wardair Canada Inc. v. FloridaDept. of Revenue, 477
8

Berkener v. McCarty, 468 U. S. 420, 435, n. 23 (1984), is not to the
contrary. There the Court of Appeals had reversed the respondent's
criminal conviction, holding postarrest incriminating statements inadmissible under Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U. S. 436 (1966). Because he prevailed in the Court of Appeals, obtaining a judgment entirely in his favor,
respondent could not have filed a cross-petition. Accordingly, his contention that certain prearrest statements (whose admissibility the Court of
Appeals had left ambiguous) were inadmissible was a permissible argument in defense of the judgment below.

366

NORTHWEST AIRLINES, INC. v. COUNTY OF KENT
Opinion of the Court

U. S. 1, 15-16 (1986) (Burger, C. J., concurring in part and
concurring in judgment) (§ 1513(b)'s saving clause was enacted in response to the States' concern that § 1513(a)'s
"sweeping provision would prohibit even unobjectionable
taxes such as landing fees . . ."). Sections 1513(a) and (b)

together instruct that airport user fees are permissible only
if, and to the extent that, they fall within § 1513(b)'s saving
clause, which removes from § 1513(a)'s ban "reasonable rental
charges, landing fees, and other service charges from aircraft
operators for the use of airport facilities." 9
While § 1513(b) allows only "reasonable rental charges,
landing fees, and other service charges," the AHTA does not
set standards for assessing reasonableness. Courts, we recognize, are scarcely equipped to oversee, without the initial
superintendence of a regulatory agency, rate structures and
practices. See ColoradoInterstate Gas Co. v. FPC,324 U. S.
581, 589 (1945) ("Rate-making is essentially a legislative
function."); cf. Far East Conference v. United States, 342
U. S. 570, 574 (1952) ("in cases raising issues of fact not
within the conventional experience of judges or cases requiring the exercise of administrative discretion, agencies created by Congress for regulating the subject matter should
not be passed over").1" The Secretary of Transportation is
9The

Airport's argument, accepted by the dissent, that user fees are

entirely outside the scope of the AHTA because they are not "head" taxes,
advances an untenable reading of the statute. We note, in this regard,
§ 1513(b)'s recognition, in its first clause, of "taxes- other than those enumerated in subsection (a) of this section, including property taxes, net
income taxes, franchise taxes, and sales or use taxes on the sale of goods
or services" (emphasis added). Unlike the property and income taxes
listed in the first clause of § 1513(b), the airport user fees listed in
§ 1513(b)'s second clause are not described as taxes "other than those enumerated in subsection (a)." The statute, in sum, is hardly ambiguous on
this matter: User fees are covered by § 1513(a), but may be saved by
§ 1513(b).
10The reasonableness of the Airport's rates might have been referred,
prior to any court's consideration, to the Department of Transportation
under the primary jurisdiction doctrine. That doctrine is "specifically ap-

Cite as: 510 U. S. 355 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

charged with administering the federal aviation laws,,including the AHTA. 11 His Department is equipped, as courts are
not, to survey the field nationwide, and to regulate based on
a full view of the relevant facts: and circumstances. If we
had the benefit of the Secretary's reasoned decision concern-

ing the AHTA's permission for the charges in question, we
would accord that decision substantial deference. See Chevron U.S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.,
467 U. S. 837, 842-845 (1984). Lacking guidance from the
Secretary, however, and compelled to give effect to the statute's use of "reasonable," we must look elsewhere.
The parties point to the standards this Court employs to
measure the reasonableness of fees under the Commerce
Clause, as stated in the Evansville case, see supra, at 362363; they invite our use of the Evansville standards as baselines for determining the reasonableness of fees under the
plicable to claims properly cognizable in court that contain some issue
within the special competence of an administrative agency" and permits
courts to make a "'referral' to the agency, staying further proceedings so
as to give the parties reasonable opportunity to seek an administrative
ruling." Reiter v. Cooper, 507 U. S. 258, 268 (1993). However, as the
parties have not briefed or argued this question, we decline to invoke the
doctrine here.
"The Federal Aviation Act, which encompasses the AHTA, authorizes
the Secretary of Transportation to conduct investigations, issue orders,
and promulgate regulations necessary to implement the statute. See 49
U. S. C. App. § 1354(a). The Act provides a mechanism for administrative
adjudication, subject to judicial review in the courts of appeals, of alleged
violations. See § 1482(a) ("[a]ny person may file with the Secretary of
Transportation... a complaint in writing with respect to anything done
or omitted to be done by any person in contravention of any provisions of
[the Act], or of any requirement established pursuant thereto"); § 1486 (judicial review provision). The Secretary has established procedures for
adjudicating such complaints through the Federal Aviation Administration, see 14 CFR pt. 13 (1993), and the FAA has entertained challenges to
the reasonableness of airport landing fees under the AHTA. See New
England Legal Foundation v. Massachusetts Port Authority, 883 F. 2d
157, 159-166 (CA1 1989).

368

NORTHWEST AIRLINES, INC. v. COUNTY OF KENT
Opinion of the Court

AHTA. 12 We accept the parties' suggestions. Although
Congress enacted the AHTA because it found unsatisfactory
the end result of our Commerce Clause analysis in Evansville-the validation of "head" taxes-Congress specifically
permitted, through §1513(b)'s saving clause, "reasonable
rental charges, landing fees, and other services charges." 13
The formulation in Evansville has been used to determine
"reasonableness" in related contexts. See, e.g., American
Trucking Assns., Inc. v. Scheiner, 483 U. S. 266, 289-290
(1987) (applying Evansville test to assess validity under
Commerce Clause of state taxes applied to interstate motor
carrier); Massachusetts v. United States, 435 U. S. 444, 466467 (1978) (applying Evansville test to determine constitutionality of tax under intergovernmental immunity doctrine).
14
It will suffice for the purpose at hand.
12 See Brief for Petitioners 20, 22-23; Reply Brief for Petitioners 3-4;
Brief for Respondents 32; see also Brief for United States as Amicus
Curiae 23-29 (arguing that Evansville reasonableness test is satisfied
without explicitly endorsing its application).
'Contrary to the dissent's suggestion, applying Evansville's standards
to determine whether airport fees are "reasonable" under § 1513(b) would
not permit airports to "impos[e] a modest per passenger fee on airlines as
a service charge for use of airport facilities." Post, at 380. Section
1513(a)'s prohibition is written broadly, whereas § 1513(b) is narrow, saving
only "reasonable rental charges, landing fees, and other service charges."
A per passenger service charge would be an impermissible "head charge"
under § 1513(a), and does not fit into any of the three categories saved by
§ 1513(b). The user fees challenged here, by contrast, are "rental charges,
landing fees, and other service charges," § 1513(b), that would be prohibited as "fee[s]" or "other charge[s]" under § 1513(a), unless they are "reasonable." See supra, at 365-366.
14It remains open to the Secretary, utilizing his Department's capacity
to comprehend the details of airport operations across the country, and the
economics of the air transportation industry, to apply some other formula
(including one that entails more rigorous scrutiny) for determining
whether fees are "reasonable" within the meaning of the AHTA; his exposition will merit judicial approbation so long as it represents "a permissible
construction of the statute." Chevron U S. A Inc. v. Natural Resources
Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837, 842-845 (1984).

Cite as: 510 U. S. 355 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

To recapitulate, a levy is reasonable under Evansville if it
(1) is based on some fair approximation of use of the facilities,
(2) is not excessive in relation to the benefits conferred, and
(3) does not discriminate against interstate commerce. 405
U. S., at 716-717. The Airlines contend that the Airport's
fee structure fails the Evansville test on three main counts.
We consider each contention in turn.
1
As noted above, the Airport allocates its air-operations
costs between the Airlines and general aviation; the concessions in fact supply the lion's share of the Airport's revenues,
see supra, at 360, but are allocated none of these costs. The
Airlines contend that the concessions benefit substantially,
albeit indirectly, from air operations, because those operations generate the concessions' customer flow. Therefore,
the Airlines urge, the Airport's failure to allocate to the concessions any of the airfield-associated costs violates Evansville's requirement that user fees be "based on some fair
approximation of use or privilege for use." 405 U. S., at
716-717. The cost reallocation sought by the Airlines would
not change the market-based rent paid by the concessions,
see supra, at 360, but it would lower the charges imposed on
the Airlines.
We see no obvious conflict with Evansville in the Airport's
allocation of the costs of air operations to the Airlines and
general aviation, but not to the concessions. Only the Airlines and general aviation actually use the runways and navigational facilities of the Airport; the concessions use only the
terminal facilities. The Airport's decision to allocate costs
according to a formula that accounts for this distinction appears to "reflect a fair, if imperfect, approximation of the use
of facilities for whose benefit they are imposed." 405 U. S.,
at 716-717.15
15See also 405 U. S., at 718-719 (airports may lawfully distinguish among

classes of users, including aircraft operators and concessions, based on
their differing uses of airport facilities); Denver v. ContinentalAir Lines,

370

NORTHWEST AIRLINES, INC. v. COUNTY OF KENT
Opinion of the Court

The District Court found that (with one minor exception 16)
the Airport charged the Airlines "the break-even costs for
the areas they use."

738 F. Supp., at 1119.17

In this light,

we cannot conclude that the Airlines were charged fees
"excessive in comparison with the governmental benefit
conferred." Evansville, supra, at 717. See also Brief for
United States as Amicus Curiae25 ("As long as an airport's
charges to air carriers do not result in revenues that exceed
by more than a reasonable margin the costs of servicing
those carriers, the Secretary would normally sustain those
charges as reasonable under federal law.") (citing Federal
Aviation Administration, Airport Compliance Requirements, Order No. 5190.6A §§4-13, 4-14, pp. 20-22 (Oct. 2,
1989), and 14 CFR §399.110(f) (1993)).
2
The Airlines also contend that the Airport's fee methodology is unlawful because, by imposing on the Airlines virtuInc., 712 F. Supp. 834, 838, 839 (Colo. 1989) (rejecting a similar argument,
noting: "Nothing in the history and purpose of the Anti-Head Tax Act
indicates that Congress intended the courts to act as a public utility commission and intervene in the setting of airport rates and charges through
the adoption or rejection of any particular type of cost accounting methodology. Denver's division of costs and revenues between airlines and
concessionaires is facially a reasonable approach to establishing rental
charges, terminal rates, landing fees and other service charges which are
collected from the users of the facilities at Stapleton [Airport].").
16 The District Court found that the Airport overcharged the Airlines
for aircraft parking and ordered the Airport "to recalculate this fee to
result in a true break-even charge." 738 F. Supp., at 1120. The Airport
did not appeal this order.
17The Airlines do not dispute that they are charged only their allocated
share of the airfield and terminal costs. They assert, however, that the
Airport has allocated to them excessive "carrying charges" or amortization fees for capital improvements. The Court of Appeals specifically addressed and rejected this contention, concluding that the rate charged "is
reasonable and should not result in a net present value which exceeds the
initial cost of the [capital improvements] project." 955 F. 2d 1054, 1063
(CA6 1992). We have no cause to disturb that determination.

Cite as: 510 U. S. 355 (1994)

Opinion of the Court

ally all of the air-operations costs, and exacting fees from the
concessions far in excess of their allocated costs, the methodology generates huge surpluses. The AHTA, however, does
not authorize judicial inquiry focused on the amount of the
Airport's surplus. The statute requires only that an airport's fees not "be excessive in relation to costs incurred by
the taxing authorities" for benefits conferred on the user.
Evansville, supra, at 719. As we have explained, the Airlines are charged only for the costs of benefits they receive.
The Airport's surplus is generated from fees charged to concessions, and the amounts of those fees are not at issue. As
the Court of Appeals pointed out, § 1513(b) applies only to
fees charged to "aircraft operators." 955 F. 2d, at 1060.
The Airlines urge us to consider the effect of the concession revenues when deciding whether the fees charged the
Airlines are reasonable, pointing to the Seventh Circuit's
analysis in IndianapolisAirport v. American Airlines, Inc.,
733 F. 2d, at 1268 (invalidating the Indianapolis Airport's fee
structure on the ground, inter alia,that the Airport's generation of a surplus from the concession fees indirectly raised
the costs of air travel). The Seventh Circuit, however, overlooked a key factor. It reasoned explicitly from the incorrect premise that "[n]o agency has regulatory authority over
the rate practices of the Indianapolis Airport Authority."
Ibid. The Seventh Circuit panel believed that "the duty of
regulation [fell] to the courts in the enforcement of the state
and federal statutes forbidding unreasonable rates." Ibid.
That court thought it necessary to "imagine [itself] in the
role of a regulatory agency." Ibid. In contrast, our opinion
in this case emphasizes that the Department of Transportation has regulatory authority to enforce the federal aviation
laws, including the AHTA and the AAIA, see supra, at 366367, and n. 11, so there is no cause for courts to offer a substitute for "conventional public utility regulation," 733 F. 2d,
at 1268.

372

NORTHWEST AIRLINES, INC. v. COUNTY OF KENT
Opinion of the Court

We resist inferring a limit on airport surpluses from the
AHTA for a further reason. That measure does not mention
surplus accumulation, but another statute, the AAIA, directly addresses the use of airport revenues. The AAIA
requires that "all revenues generated by the airport . . .
be expended for the capital or operating costs of the
airport . . ." 49 U.S. C. App. §2210(a)(12) (emphasis
supplied). The Airlines do not suggest that the Airport is
using its surplus for any purpose other than Airport-related
expenses, nor did they seek review of the lower courts' holding that they had no right of action under the AAIA. 955
F. 2d, at 1058-1059. For these reasons, even if the AAIA is
read to impose a limit on the accumulation of surplus revenues, see Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 26-27,
the question whether the Airport's surpluses are excessive
is not properly before us.
3
.

Finally, the Airlines contend that the Airport's fees discriminate against them in favor of general aviation, in violation of Evansville's instruction that airport tolls be nondiscriminatory regarding interstate commerce and travel. As
earlier recounted, see supra, at 359-360, the Airlines pay
100% of their allocated costs while general aviation users are
assessed fees covering only 20% of their allocated costs.
We need not consider whether the Airlines would have a
compelling point had they established that general aviation
is properly categorized as intrastate commerce. Cf., e. g.,
Chemical Waste Management, Inc. v. Hunt, 504 U. S. 334,
339-348 (1992) (invalidating state fee on hazardous wastes
generated outside, but disposed of inside, the State, because
it discriminated against interstate commerce); American
Trucking Assns., Inc. v. Scheiner, 483 U. S., at 268-269
(invalidating state highway use taxes because they discriminated against interstate motor carriers). The record in this
case, it suffices to say, does not support the Airlines' argument. We cannot assume, in the total absence of proof, that

Cite as: 510 U. S. 355 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

the large and diverse general aviation population served by
intrastate and seldom ventures
the Airport travels typically
18
borders.
Michigan's
beyond
III
The Airlines assert that, even if the Airport's user fees
are not unreasonable under the AHTA, they violate the
"dormant" Commerce Clause. Even if we considered the
AHTA's express permission for States' imposition of "reasonable rental charges, landing fees, and other service charges
from aircraft operators for the use of airport facilities," 49
U. S. C. App. § 1513(b), insufficiently clear 19 to rule out judicial dormant Commerce Clause analysis, 20 petitioners' argu18 The

Airlines suggest that they had no opportunity to develop a record

demonstrating discrimination in favor of intrastate carriers, because the
District Court granted summary judgment for respondents on the Commerce Clause question. See Reply Brief for Petitioners 9-10, n. 14. This
argument does not fly. The case did proceed to trial on the AHTA claim.
The Airlines have asserted that Evansville's standard governs AHTA reasonableness. Thus, under their own theory, they had to demonstrate the
equivalent of a violation of the dormant Commerce Clause-i. e., discrimination against interstate commerce-in order to prevail at the AHTA
trial. The Airlines' belated suggestion-which contradicts their endorsement of Evansville, see Brief for Petitioners 22-23-that discrimination
in favor of intrastate commerce is relevant under the Commerce Clause,
but not under the AHTA, is unimpressive. The AHTA was a direct response to Evansville; Congress' principal concern in enacting the measure
was to proscribe fees that unduly burden interstate commerce. See, e. g.,
S. Rep. No. 93-12, p. 17 (1973). Covered fees, as we have emphasized,
include, but are not limited to, head taxes. See supra, at 365-366, and
n. 9.
'9See, e. g., Wyoming v. Oklahoma, 502 U. S. 437, 458 (1992) (requiring
that Congress "manifest its unambiguous intent before a federal statute
will be read to permit" state regulation discriminating against interstate
commerce).
-oSee, e. g., Merrion v. JicarillaApache Tribe, 455 U. S. 130, 154 (1982)
("Once Congress acts, courts are not free to review state taxes or other
regulations under the dormant Commerce Clause. When Congress has
struck the balance it deems appropriate, the courts are no longer needed
to prevent States from burdening commerce, and it matters not that the

374

NORTHWEST AIRLINES, INC. v. COUNTY OF KENT
THOMAS, J.,

dissenting

ment would fail. We have already found the challenged fees
reasonable under the AHTA through the lens of Evansville-that is, under a reasonableness standard taken directly from our dormant Commerce Clause jurisprudence.
For the reasons stated, and without prejudging the outcome of any eventual proceeding before or regulation by the
Secretary of Transportation, we affirm the judgment of the
Court of Appeals.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE BLACKMUN

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
JUSTICE THOMAS,

dissenting.

Today the Court transforms a statutory prohibition on a
narrow class of charges on air travel into a broad mandate
for federal regulation and review of virtually all airport fees.
I disagree with the Court that the landing fees, rental
charges, and carrying charges challenged here fall within the
scope of the Anti-Head Tax Act (AHTA or Act), 49 U. S. C.
App. § 1513. Unlike the Court, I do not believe that the Act
imposes a "reasonableness" requirement on all airport
charges and user fees. Instead, the Act merely prohibits
fees, taxes, and charges imposed on the bases specified in
§ 1513(a), and leaves airports free to impose other charges,
subject to the restrictions of the dormant Commerce Clause.
Because the Act does not apply to the fees at issue in this
case, I would remand for consideration of petitioners' Commerce Clause claim. Accordingly, I respectfully dissent.
I
As the Court recognizes, ante, at 362-363, Congress
passed the AHTA in response to this Court's decision in
courts would invalidate the state tax or regulation under the' Commerce
Clause in the absence of congressional action.").

Cite as: 510 U. S. 355 (1994)

THOMAS, J., dissenting

Evansville-Vanderburgh Airport Authority Dist. v. Delta
Airlines, Inc., 405 U. S. 707 (1972), which upheld against
Commerce Clause challenge the imposition of a per capita
("head") tax on air travelers. The Act was designed primarily to deal with the proliferation of local head taxes in the
wake of the Evansville decision. Aloha Airlines, Inc. v.
Directorof Taxation of Haw., 464 U. S. 7, 9, 13 (1983).
Two AHTA provisions are relevant here. Section 1513(a)
prohibits state and local governments from imposing "a tax,
fee, head charge, or other charge, directly or indirectly, on
persons traveling in air commerce or on the carriage of persons traveling in air commerce or on the sale of air transportation or on the gross receipts derived therefrom." Section
1513(b), however, states that."nothing in [the Act]" prohibits
the imposition of "taxes other than those enumerated in
subsection (a)," including, among other things, property and
net income taxes, and that the Act does not prohibit "reasonable rental charges, landing fees, and other service charges"
collected from "aircraft operators for the use of airport
facilities."
In the Court's view, § 1513(a) prohibits virtually all airport
user fees, ante, at 365 ("Landing fees, terminal charges, and
other airport user fees of the sort here challenged fit
§ 1513(a)'s description"), and § 1513(b) "saves" those fees that
are "reasonable," ante, at 366, n. 9 ("[U]ser fees are covered
by § 1513(a), but may be saved by § 1513(b)"). The Court
supports its broad reading of § 1513(a) in part by noting that
the section prohibits not only head taxes but also taxes on
gross receipts. Ante, at 365 (citing Aloha Airlines, 464
U. S., at 12-13). That, however, merely states the obvious.
Section 1513(a) expressly prohibits taxes "on the gross receipts derived" from the sale of air transportation. The
mere fact that the Act is not strictly limited to head taxes,
which were the Act's primary target, id., at 13, but also encompasses taxes on gross receipts from the sale of air trans-

376

NORTHWEST AIRLINES, INC. v. COUNTY OF KENT
THOMAS, J., dissenting

portation, in no way suggests that the Act should be read to
encompass all airport "user fees."
To be sure, the Act's apparently broad ban on any fees,
taxes, or charges imposed "directly or indirectly, on persons
traveling in air commerce," etc., superficially supports the
Court's interpretation. Any cost an airline bears is in some
sense an "indirect" charge "on persons traveling in air commerce," because the airline ultimately will pass that cost on
to consumers in the form of higher ticket prices. But if
§ 1513(a) covers all charges indirectly imposed on air travelers, as the Court apparently believes, see ante, at 365, it
should logically encompass all taxes imposed on airlines as
well, including property taxes, net income taxes, franchise
taxes, and sales and use taxes on the sale of goods and services. Yet § 1513(b) instructs that such taxes are not covered
by § 1513(a)-that they are "taxes other than those enumerated in subsection (a)." (Emphasis added.) Significantly,
§ 1513(b) is not phrased as an exemption for taxes otherwise
within § 1513(a)'s prohibition, but rather as a clarification of
the reach of § 1513(a). It makes clear that the language of
§ 1513(a) defining the prohibition does not extend by its own
force to the taxes enumerated in § 1513(b). Under the
Court's broad construction of § 1513(a)'s "directly or indirectly" language, however, the two provisions would appear
to be in conflict.
Recognizing the significance of § 1513(b)'s treatment of
taxes, the Court implicitly acknowledges that § 1513(a) does
not cover the taxes listed in § 1513(b). Ante, at 366, n. 9.
But the Court can only accomplish this reading by assuming
that § 1513(b) treats the "rental charges, landing fees, and
other service charges . . . for the use of airport facilities"
listed in that subsection differently from the enumerated
taxes. In this understanding, while as to taxes § 1513(b)
merely clarifies the scope of § 1513(a), as to fees it serves the
altogether different function of providing an exemption from
§ 1513(a)'s prohibition. The Court supports this reading on

Cite as: 510 U. S. 355 (1994)
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

the ground that § 1513(b) does not explicitly describe the
fees as distinct from ("other than") the fees prohibited in
§ 1513(a). That construction requires a rather unlikely reading of § 1513(a), however, because it means that the same
language defining the scope of the prohibition in that section
inexplicably would have one meaning when applied to fees,
and quite a different (and more limited) meaning when
applied to taxes. None of the taxes listed in § 1513(b),
although borne indirectly by airline passengers, would constitute a "tax, fee,... or other charge, [levied] directly or
indirectly, on persons traveling in air commerce," etc. But
a user fee charged to an airline, because it is borne indirectly
by airline passengers, would constitute such a "tax, fee,...
or other charge . . . . " Thus, the prohibition in § 1513(a)
would not extend to, for example, property taxes, because
they are not imposed on one of the bases listed in § 1513(a),
but would extend to other fees or charges, regardless of the
basis upon which they are imposed.
Adherence to the plain language of § 1513(a) avoids these
problems. In my view, when the statute prohibits a tax or
charge "on persons traveling in air commerce," "on the carriage of" such persons, "on the sale of air transportation,"
or "on the gross receipts derived therefrom," it defines the
prohibition in terms of the prohibited basis of the tax or
charge. That is, § 1513(a) prohibits the levy or collection of
a tax or fee "on" certain subjects. A head tax, for example,
is a charge "on persons traveling in air commerce" in that it
is imposed on a per passenger basis. A landing fee, by contrast, is not-rather, it is a charge on an aircraft's landing
at an airport, without regard to the number of passengers
it carries.'
'Of course, as the Court notes, ante, at 366, n. 9, user fees such as
landing fees are not per se excluded from the Act. An airport could not,
for example, simply replace a head tax, which is clearly forbidden by the
Act, with a "landing fee" calculated according to the number of passengers
on an airplane. Such a thinly disguised substitute for a head tax no doubt

378

NORTHWEST AIRLINES, INC. v. COUNTY OF KENT
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

Section 1513(b) confirms that § 1513(a) is concerned with
the basis on which the tax or charge is calculated. Property
taxes, net income taxes, and franchise taxes are not imposed
on one of the bases prohibited in § 1513(a), and as explained
above, are not included in § 1513(a). Because the same language in § 1513(a) restricts taxes as well as fees and other
charges, it seems logical that the fees referred to in § 1513(b),
which also are not generally calculated on the bases listed in
§ 1513(a), are similarly beyond § 1513(a)'s prohibition.
Section 1513(b)'s reference to "reasonable" charges, then,
does not impose a requirement that all airport user fees be
"reasonable." Instead, it simply makes clear that state and
local governments remain free to impose charges other than
those proscribed by § 1513(a). Cf. Aloha Airlines, 464 U. S.,
at 12, n. 6 ("Section 1513(a) pre-empts a limited number of
state taxes,... [and] [§]1513(b) clarifies Congress' view that
the States are still free to impose on airlines and air carriers
'taxes other than those enumerated in subsection (a)' ").
That is not to say that the term "reasonable" is superfluous.
Had the Act made unqualified reference to landing fees and
other user fees, it might have been read as an indication of
congressional intent to authorize fees or charges that would
otherwise be invalid under the dormant Commerce Clause.
See Maine v. Taylor, 477 U. S. 191, 139 (1986). An unqualified reference might have also been understood to permit
landing fees and other fees calculated on one of the bases
prohibited by § 1513(a). See n. 1, supra. By including the
term "reasonable," Congress ensured that the Act would not
is a charge on the carriage of passengers traveling in air commerce within
the meaning of § 1513(a). A landing fee is not such a prohibited charge
where it is based merely on the weight of an airplane, as here. See App.
194 (Plaintiffs' Trial Exh. 6: Fees for the Use of Public Aircraft Facilities

and Rental for Passenger Terminal Premises, Kent County International
Airport, Three Years Beginning Jan. 1, 1987 (Dec. 31, 1986)). 'Similarly,

neither a rental fee based on square footage, see ibid., nor a carrying
charge based on the depreciation of an asset, see App. 68-70 (trial testimony of Richard K. Dompke), is such a prohibited charge.

Cite as: 510 U. S. 355 (1994)
THOMAS, J.,

dissenting

be understood to displace the dormant Commerce Clause or
to exempt user fees on aircraft operators per se from
§ 1513(a). In short, § 1513(b) merely clarifies that fees,
taxes, and other charges not encompassed within § 1513(a)
may be imposed if consistent with our dormant Commerce
Clause jurisprudence. 2
II
The considerable difficulty the Court has in finding content
for the term "reasonable" should signal that Congress did
not intend the Act to impose a comprehensive new regulation
on airport fees. As the Court admits, the Act itself sets
no standards for reasonableness. Ante, at 366. Finding no
other source for a definition, the Court uses Evansville as
its test of reasonableness, apparently for want of anything
better. See ante, at 367-368. The Court seems to recognize that this is not a perfect fit (but "will suffice for the
purpose at hand," ante, at 368), and with good reason. Reasonableness was only one of several factors considered in
Evansville; nondiscrimination against interstate commerce
is a separate concern and is of at least equal importance.
See 405 U. S., at 716-717. Moreover, as the Court acknowledges, Congress enacted the Act precisely because it found
the result in Evansville "unsatisfactory." Ante, at 368.
Nevertheless, the Court reads the Evansville standard
into the statute for no reason other than that the parties
invite us to do so and that this Court (after enactment of the
AHTA) occasionally has applied Evansville to test reasonableness in other contexts. Ante, at 367-368. That the
parties agree on a standard, however, does not mean that it
is the correct one. Moreover, it seems somewhat odd to import into the Act the very standard that created the problem
Congress ostensibly intended the Act to "correct." Indeed,
read as the Court construes it, the Act would fail to prohibit
statutory restrictions might also apply to the fees at issue here,
see, e. g., 49 U. S. C. App. § 2210, but their applicability is not before us.
2Other

380

NORTHWEST AIRLINES, INC. v. COUNTY OF KENT
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

precisely the sort of fees § 1513(a) most clearly forbids. A
head tax itself was held to be a "reasonable" user fee in
Evansville (assuming, as the Court does, that Evansville
applied a "reasonableness" standard). Under the Court's
interpretation of the AHTA, there is nothing to prevent an
airport from imposing a modest per passenger fee on airlines
as a service charge for use of airport facilities.3 Such a fee
would pass muster under Evansville, and therefore would
be "saved" by § 1513(b) as a "reasonable" fee, even though it
is clearly a charge "on the carriage of persons traveling in
air commerce." § 1513(a). 4 It is doubtful that Congress intended the AHTA to prohibit "unreasonable" landing fees,
whatever they might be, while permitting "Evansvillereasonable" per capita user fees on aircraft operators. If, as
the Court implies, Congress disapproved of the result but
not the analysis in Evansville, it seems far more likely that
it would have left the Commerce Clause analysis undisturbed
while prohibiting head taxes and similar fees. In my view,
that is precisely what § 1513 does.
Having applied a construction of "reasonable" that it admits is not compelled by the Act, the Court invites the Secretary of Transportation to devise a different, presumably bet8

Presumably, under the Court's analysis, § 1513(b) would not save head
taxes exacted directly from passengers because it refers only to user fees
collected "from aircraft operators."
4Itis no answer to say, as the Court does, ante, at 368, n. 13, that "head
charges" are prohibited by § 1513(a). In the Court's view, "user fees are
[also] covered by § 1513(a)." Ante, at 366, n. 9. As the Court construes
the Act, charges covered by § 1513(a) are permitted only if they are
"saved" by § 1513(b). Ibid. It is not clear why § 1513(b) would save reasonable "fee[s]" and "other charge[s]" covered by §1513(a) but not reasonable "head charge[s]" covered by § 1513(a). Head charges certainly may
constitute "reasonable ...service charges from aircraft operators for the
use of airport facilities," § 1513(b), if Evansville is the standard of reasonableness. See Evansville-Vanderburgh Airport Authority Dist. v. Delta
Airlines, Inc., 405 U. S.707, 710, 714 (1972) (upholding a $1 per passenger
"service charge" collected from air carriers for "use of runways and other
airport facilities").

Cite as: 510 U. S. 355 (1994)
THOMAS, J., dissenting

ter, interpretation of the term, to which the Court will defer
if it is a permissible construction of the Act.5 Ante, at 368,
n. 14. Given that the Act sets no standards for "reasonableness," ante, at 366, it is difficult to imagine how the Secretary's interpretation could be an impermissible one. Indeed, although the Court seems to assume that the standard
would be at least as rigorous as the one it applies here, presumably the Secretary could, in the exercise of his expertise,
devise a more permissive standard. Under the Court's analysis, there is no reason to assume that the Evansville standard is a minimum. If the Act imposes the comprehensive
regulation of the reasonableness of airport charges that the
Court sees, it would certainly constitute a clear expression
of Congress' intention to displace the dormant Commerce
Clause in this area, see Maine v. Taylor, 477 U. S., at 139, in
which case the Secretary would be free to regulate either
more or less restrictively than would the dormant Commerce
Clause. Cf. Merrion v. JicarillaApache Tribe, 455 U. S.
130, 154 (1982). I simply find nothing in the AHTA that
gives the Secretary such unbridled discretion to regulate all
airport user fees.
III
Because the AHTA does not, in my view, apply to the fees
in this case, it does not foreclose petitioners' challenge under
the dormant Commerce Clause.' The courts below, how6

The Secretary of Transportation has not so far promulgated any regu-

latory standards for judging reasonableness under the Act. Although
that fact is not directly relevant to our inquiry, it is surprising, if the Act
means what the Court thinks it does, that the Secretary has not done so
in the 20 years since the AHTA's enactment.
6
Nor, in my view, does the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of
1982 (AAIA), 49 U. S. C. App. §2210, foreclose dormant Commerce Clause
analysis here. Although the AAIA places a variety of conditions on federal funding of airports, some of which relate to user fees, it imposes no
flat prohibitions, and therefore does not make "'unmistakably clear"' that
it is intended to displace the dormant Commerce Clause. Maine v. Taylor, 477 U. S. 131, 139 (1986). Moreover, this Court in Evansville held

382

NORTHWEST AIRLINES, INC. v. COUNTY OF KENT
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

ever, held that the Act, as they interpreted it, precluded that
claim. 955 F. 2d 1054, 1063-1064 (CA6 1992); No. G88-243
CA (WD Mich., Jan. 19, 1990), App. to Pet. for Cert. 46a.
Because the lower courts should be given the opportunity to
consider the merits of petitioners' dormant Commerce
Clause challenge in the first instance, I would remand.
I therefore respectfully dissent.

that the AAIA's predecessor, which was substantially similar to the
AAIA, did not preclude dormant Commerce Clause analysis. See 405
U. S., at 721.

