OCTOBER TERM, 1993

1315

Opinion in Chambers

CBS INC. ET AL. v. DAVIS, CIRCUIT JUDGE, SEVENTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT, PENNINGTON COUNTY,
SOUTH DAKOTA, ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-669. Decided February 9, 1994
A South Dakota Circuit Court injunction prohibiting CBS from airing
videotape footage taken at a South Dakota meat-packing company
is stayed. The decision below conflicts with this Court's decisions on
prior restraint in the First Amendment context. See, e. g., Organization for Better Austin v. Keefe, 402 U. S. 415, 419; Nebraska Press Assn.
v. Stuart,427 U. S. 539, 562. There is a reasonable probability that the
case would warrant certiorari, and the broadcast's indefinite delay will
cause irreparable harm to the news media that is intolerable under the
First Amendment. The Amendment requires that the company remedy any harms it might suffer as a result of the broadcast through a
damages proceeding rather than through suppression of protected
speech.

Circuit Justice.
CBS Inc., CBS News Division, a division of CBS Inc., and
the television show 48 Hours (collectively CBS) apply for an
emergency stay of a preliminary injunction entered by the
Circuit Court for the Seventh Judicial District of South Dakota prohibiting CBS from airing videotape footage taken at
the factory of Federal Beef Processors, Inc. (Federal), a
South Dakota meat-packing company. CBS seeks to televise the videotape this evening on a 48 Hours investigative
news program and contends that the injunction constitutes
an intolerable prior restraint on the media. Due to the time
pressure involved in resolving this emergency application,
my discussion is necessarily brief.
As part of an ongoing investigation into unsanitary practices in the meat industry, CBS obtained footage of Federal's
meat-packing operations through the cooperation of a Federal employee, who voluntarily agreed to wear undercover
JUSTICE BLACKMUN,

1316

CBS INC. v. DAVIS
Opinion in Chambers

camera equipment during his shift one day in Federal's plant.
The employee received no compensation for his cooperation.
CBS represents that the investigation was not targeted at
Federal but at the meat-processing industry generally and
that CBS did not intend to reveal the company that was the
source of the material.
Federal sued to prevent the telecast of the videotape, alleging, inter alia, claims of trespass, breach of the duty of
loyalty and its aiding and abetting, and violation of the Uniform Trade Secrets Act, S. D. Comp. Laws Ann. ยง 37-29-1 et
seq. (Supp. 1993). On January 25, 1994, the South Dakota
Circuit Court entered a temporary restraining order, and on
February 7 the court preliminarily enjoined CBS from "disseminating, disclosing, broadcasting, or otherwise revealing"
any footage of the Federal plant interior. Findings of Fact,
Conclusions of Law, and Order for Preliminary Injunction,
Civ. No. 94-590, p. 8. The court found that disclosure of the
videotape "could result in a significant portion of the national
chains refusing to purchase beef processed at Federal and
thereafter in the Federal plant's closure," and that "[p]ublic
dissemination of Federal's confidential and proprietary practices and processes would likely cause irrepariable injury to
Federal." Id., at 3. The court concluded that because the
videotape "was obtained by CBS, at the very least, through
calculated misdeeds," id., at 4, conventional First Amendment prior restraint doctrine was inapplicable, and that any
injury to CBS resulting from delay was outweighed by the
potential economic harm to Federal.
On February 8, 1994, the South Dakota Supreme Court
denied CBS' application for a stay of the injunction and
scheduled oral argument on CBS' original petition for a writ
of mandamus for March 21, 1994. The State Supreme Court
later amended its order to require that the Circuit Judge
rescind the injunction or show cause on March 21 why a
peremptory writ of mandamus should not be issued.

Cite as: 510 U. S. 1315 (1994)
Opinion in Chambers

Although a single Justice may stay a lower court order
only under extraordinary circumstances, such circumstances
are presented here. For many years it has been clearly established that a "prior restraint on expression comes to this
Court with a 'heavy presumption' against its constitutional
validity." Organizationfor a Better Austin v. Keefe, 402
U. S. 415, 419 (1971), quoting Carroll v. President and
Comm'rs of Princess Anne, 393 U. S. 175, 181 (1968).
'Where... a direct prior restraint is imposed upon the reporting of news by the media, each passing day may constitute a separate and cognizable infringement of the First
Amendment." Nebraska Press Assn. v. Stuart, 423 U. S.
1319, 1329 (1975) (BLACKMUN, J., in chambers). As the
Court recognized in Nebraska Press Assn. v. Stuart, 427
U. S. 539, 559 (1976) (footnote omitted), prior restraints are
particularly disfavored:
"A criminal penalty or a judgment in a defamation case
is subject to the whole panoply of protections afforded
by deferring the impact of the judgment until all avenues of appellate review have been exhausted ....
"A prior restraint, by contrast.... has an immediate
and irreversible sanction. If it can be said that a threat
of criminal or civil sanctions after publication 'chills'
speech, prior restraint 'freezes' it at least for the time."
Although the prohibition against prior restraints is by no
means absolute, the gagging of publication has been considered acceptable only in "exceptional cases." Near v. Minnesota ex rel. Olson, 283 U. S. 697, 716 (1931). Even where
questions of allegedly urgent national security, see New York
Times Co. v. United States, 403 U. S. 713 (1971), or competing
constitutional interests, Nebraska Press Assn., 427 U. S., at
559, are concerned, we have imposed this "most extraordinary remed[y]" only where the evil that would result from
the reportage is both great and certain and cannot be mitigated by less intrusive measures. Id., at 562.

1318

CBS INC. v. DAVIS
Opinion in Chambers

Federal has not met this burden here. The Circuit Court
no doubt is correct that broadcast of the videotape "could"
result in significant economic harm to Federal. Even if
economic harm were sufficient in itself to justify a prior
restraint, however, we previously have refused to rely on
such speculative predictions as based on "factors unknown
and unknowable." Id., at 563; see also New York Times
Co. v. United States, supra.
Nor is the prior restraint doctrine inapplicable because the
videotape was obtained through the "calculated misdeeds" of
CBS. In New York Times Co., the Court refused to suppress publication of papers stolen from the Pentagon by a
third party. Subsequent civil or criminal proceedings,
rather than prior restraints, ordinarily are the appropriate
sanction for calculated defamation or other misdeeds in the
First Amendment context. Even if criminal activity by the
broadcaster could justify an exception to the prior restraint
doctrine under some circumstances, the record as developed
thus far contains no clear evidence of criminal activity on the
part of CBS, and the court below found none.
I conclude that the decision below conflicts with the prior
decisions of this Court, that there is a reasonable probability
that the case would warrant certiorari, and that indefinite
delay of the broadcast will cause irreparable harm to the
news media that is intolerable under the First Amendment.
Entry of a stay therefore is appropriate under the All Writs
Act, 28 U. S. C. ยง 1651. See INS v. Legalization Assistance
Project of Los Angeles County Federationof Labor, ante, at
1301 (O'CONNOR, J., in chambers). If CBS has breached its
state-law obligations, the First Amendment requires that
Federal remedy its harms through a damages proceeding
rather than through suppression of protected speech.
The Circuit Court's injunction is therefore stayed.

