OCTOBER TERM, 1993
Per Curiam

BURDEN v. ZANT, WARDEN
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ELEVENTH CIRCUIT
No. 92-8836. Decided January 10, 1994
The first time petitioner Burden's habeas petition was before this Court,
his case was remanded so that his claim that his pretrial counsel's conflict of interest denied his right to effective assistance of counsel could
be considered by the Court of Appeals "free from" that court's erroneous
failure to credit a state-court finding that the key prosecution witness
was granted immunity while represented by Burden's counsel. 498
U. S. 433. In rejecting his claim a second time, the Court of Appeals
held that it did not have to presume the immunity finding's correctness
because the state court had not adequately developed the finding. It
reasoned that the state court's conclusion amounted to mere personal
impression on an issue not subject to significant dispute at trial and
stated that the District Court had found that the key witness had not
been granted immunity.
Held. The Court of Appeals' decision was based on a manifest error. The
District Court did not make the immunity finding as claimed by the
Court of Appeals, and the Court of Appeals overlooked evidence
strongly supporting Burden's contention regarding an immunity deal.
On remand, the Court of Appeals or, subject to its further order, the
District Court must determine whether counsel's representation created
an actual conflict of interest adversely affecting his performance.
Certiorari granted; 975 F. 2d 771, reversed and remanded.
PER CURIAM.

In Burden v. Zant, 498 U. S. 433 (1991) (per curiam), we
reversed a judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, which had upheld denial of habeas relief on a
claim of ineffective assistance of counsel due to conflict of
interest. The case is before us again on a petition seeking
review of the decision rendered on remand, 975 F. 2d 771
(1992), in which the Court of Appeals once again rejected
Burden's claim that he had been deprived of the right to be
represented by counsel free of conflict of interest.

Cite as: 510 U. S. 132 (1994)
Per Curiam

In our earlier unanimous per curiam opinion, we held that
the courts below had failed to accord the presumption of correctness apparently due a state-court determination bearing
on the conflict claim (i. e., that Dixon, the key prosecution
witness allegedly represented by Burden's pretrial counsel,
"'was granted immunity from prosecution,"' 498 U.S., at
436). See 28 U. S. C. ยง 2254(d). We directed the Court of
Appeals on remand to evaluate Burden's conflict-of-interest
claim "free from" the "erroneous failure to credit. the state
trial court's finding .... " 498 U. S., at 438.
In the decision now before us, the Eleventh Circuit majority first held that there was no need for a federal habeas
court to presume the correctness of the immunity finding,
because it had not been "adequately developed" in the state
trial court proceeding. See 28 U. S. C. ยง2254(d)(3). The
majority reasoned that the trial court's conclusion, contained
in an administrative report to the State Supreme Court, see
Ga. Code Ann. ยง 17-10-35(a) (1990), and not labeled a finding
of fact or conclusion of law, amounted to the trial judge's
mere personal "impression" on an issue not subject to significant dispute at trial. See 975 F. 2d, at 774-775. Declaring it "improper" to defer to the judge's "comment," id., at
775, the Court of Appeals explained that it would uphold its
prior denial of relief on the basis of a District Court finding,
said to be that "Dixon did not testify under a grant of transactional immunity or pursuant to a promise that the State
would not prosecute him," ibid. In a dissenting opinion,
Judge Anderson maintained that the District Court's order
contained no such finding and that his colleagues had overlooked the record of evidence strongly supporting Burden's
contention that some sort of immunity deal had, in fact,
been struck.
Reviewing the record, we are convinced that Judge Anderson was correct, that the decision of the Court of Appeals
was grounded on manifest mistake, and that reversal is warranted on that basis alone. We therefore grant the motion

134

BURDEN v. ZANT
Per Curiam

for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and the petition for
a writ of certiorari and reverse and remand for the Eleventh
Circuit, or subject to its further order the District Court, to
determine whether Mr. Kondritzer's representation created
"an actual conflict of interest adversely affect[ing] [his] performance." Cuyler v. Sullivan, 446 U. S. 335, 350 (1980).
Reversed and remanded.

