OCTOBER TERM, 1993
Syllabus

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL GOOD REAL
PROPERTY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 92-1180.

Argued October 6, 1993-Decided December 13, 1993

Four and one-half years after police found drugs and drug paraphernalia
in claimant Good's home and he pleaded guilty to promoting a harmful
drug in violation of Hawaii law, the United States filed an in rem action
in the Federal District Court, seeking forfeiture of his house and land,
under 21 U. S. C. §881(a)(7), on the ground that the property had been
used to commit or facilitate the commission of a federal drug offense.
Following an ex pare proceeding, a Magistrate Judge issued a warrant
authorizing the property's seizure, and the Government seized the property without prior notice to Good or an adversary proceeding. In his
claim for the property and answer to the Government's complaint, Good
asserted that he was deprived of his property without due process
of law and that the action was invalid because it had not been timely
commenced. The District Court ordered that the property be forfeited,
but the Court of Appeals reversed. It held that the seizure without
prior notice and a hearing violated the Due Process Clause, and remanded the case for a determination whether the action, although filed
within the 5-year period provided by 19 U. S. C. § 1621, was untimely
because the Government failed to follow the internal notification and
reporting requirements of §§ 1602-1604.
Held
1. Absent exigent circumstances, the Due Process Clause requires the
Government to afford notice and a meaningful opportunity to be heard
before seizing real property subject to civil forfeiture. Pp. 48-62.
(a) The seizure of Good's property implicates two "'explicit textual
source[s] of constitutional protection,"' the Fourth Amendment and the
Fifth. Soldal v. Cook County, 506 U.S. 56, 70. While the Fourth
Amendment places limits on thie Government's power to seize property
for purposes of forfeiture, it does not provide the sole measure of constitutional protection that must be afforded property owners in forfeiture
proceedings. Gerstein v. Pugh, 420 U. S. 103; Graham v. Connor,490
U. S. 386, distinguished. Where the Government seizes property not to
preserve evidence of criminal wrongdoing but to assert ownership and
control over the property, its action must also comply with the Due

44

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY
Syllabus

Process Clause. See, e. g., Calero-Thledov. Pearson Yacht Leasing Co.,
416 U. S. 663; Fuentes v. Shevin, 407 U. S. 67. Pp. 48-52.
(b) An exception to the general rule requiring predeprivation notice and hearing is justified only in extraordinary situations. Id., at 82.
Using the three-part inquiry set forth in Mathews v. Eldridge,424 U. S.
319-consideration of the private interest affected by the official action;
the risk of an erroneous deprivation of that interest through the procedures used, as well as the probable value of additional safeguards; and
the Government's interest, including the administrative burden that additional procedural requirements would impose, id., at 335-the seizure
of real property for purposes of civil forfeiture does not justify such an
exception. Good's right to maintain control over his home, and to be
free from governmental interference, is a private interest of historic and
continuing importance, cE, e. g., United States v. Karo, 468 U. S. 705,
714-715, that weighs heavily in the Mathews balance. Moreover, the
practice of ex parte seizure creates an unacceptable risk of error, since
the proceeding affords little or no protection to an innocent owner, who
may not be deprived of property under §881(a)(7). Nor does the governmental interest at stake here present a pressing need for prompt
action. Because real property cannot abscond, a court's jurisdiction can
be preserved without prior seizure simply by posting notice on the property and leaving a copy of the process with the occupant. In addition,
the Government's legitimate interests at the inception of a forfeiture
proceeding-preventing the property from being sold, destroyed, or
used for further illegal activity before the forfeiture judgment--can be
secured through measures less intrusive than seizure: a lis pendens notice to prevent the property's sale, a restraining order to prevent its
destruction, and search and arrest warrants to forestall further illegal
activity. Since a claimant is already entitled to a hearing before final
judgment, requiring the Government to postpone seizure until after an
adversary hearing creates no significant administrative burden, and any
harm from the delay is minimal compared to the injury occasioned by
erroneous seizure. Pp. 52-59.
(c) No plausible claim of executive urgency, including the Government's reliance on forfeitures as a means of defraying law enforcement expenses, justifies the summary seizure of real property under
§881(a)(7). Cf. Phillips v. Commissioner, 283 U.S. 589. Pp. 59-61.
2. Courts may not dismiss a forfeiture action filed within the 5-year
statute of limitations for noncompliance with the timing requirements
of §§ 1602-1604. Congress' failure to specify a consequence for noncompliance implies that it intended the responsible officials administering
the Act to have discretion to determine what disciplinary measures are
appropriate when their subordinates fail to discharge their statutory

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)

Syllabus
duties, and the federal courts should not in the ordinary course impose
their own coercive sanction, see, e. g., United States v. MontalvoMurillo, 495 U. S. 711, 717-721. Pp. 62-65.
971 F. 2d 1376, affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded.
KENNEDY, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court with respect
to Parts I and III, and the opinion of the Court with respect to Parts II
and IV, in which BLACKMUN, STEVENS, SOUTER, and GINSBURG, JJ.,
joined. REHNQUIST, C. J., filed an opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part, in which SCALA, J., joined, and in which O'CONNOR, J., joined
as to Parts II and III, post, p. 65. O'CONNOR, J., post, p. 73, and THOMAS,
J., post, p. 80, filed opinions concurring in part and dissenting in part.

Edwin S. Kneedler argued the cause for the United States.

With him on the brief were Solicitor General Days, Acting
Solicitor General Bryson, and Acting Assistant Attorney
General Keeney.
Christopher J Yuen argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondents.*
*A brief of amici curiae urging reversal was filed for the State of Kentucky et al. by Chris Gorman, Attorney General, and David A. Sexton,
Assistant Attorney General, Malaetasi Togafau, Attorney General of
American Samoa, Grant Woods, Attorney General of Arizona, Daniel E.
Lungren, Attorney General of California, Domenick J. Galluzzo, Acting
Chief State's Attorney of Connecticut, Pamela Carter,Attorney General
of Indiana, Robert T Stephan, Attorney General of Kansas, Richard P.
Ieyoub, Attorney General of Louisiana, J Joseph Curran, Jr., Attorney
General of Maryland, Scott Harshbarger,Attorney General of Massachusetts, Frank J. Kelley, Attorney General of Michigan, Mike Moore, Attorney General of Mississippi, Joseph P Mazurek, Attorney General of Montana, Don Stenberg, Attorney General of Nebraska, Jeffrey R. Howard,
Attorney General of New Hampshire, Tom Udall, Attorney General of
New Mexico, Heidi Heitkamp, Attorney General of North Dakota, Ernest
D, Preate, Jr., Attorney General of Pennsylvania, and Joseph B. Myer,
Attorney General of Wyoming.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were fied for the American
Civil Liberties Union et al. by Steven Alan Reiss, Richard A Rothman,
Katherine Oberlies,Steven R. Shapiro, and John A Powell; for the Institute for Justice by William H. Mellor III and Clint Bolick; and for the
National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers by Richard J. Troberman and E. E. Edwards III.

46

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY

Opinion of the Court
JUSTICE KENNEDY delivered the opinion of the Court.

The principal question presented is whether, in the absence of exigent circumstances, the Due Process Clause of
the Fifth Amendment prohibits the Government in a civil
forfeiture case from seizing real property without first affording the owner notice and an opportunity to be heard.
We hold that it does.
A second issue in the case concerns the timeliness of the
forfeiture action. We hold that filing suit for forfeiture
within the statute of limitations suffices to make the action
timely, and that the cause should not be dismissed for failure
to comply with certain other statutory directives for expeditious prosecution in forfeiture cases.
I
On January 31, 1985, Hawaii police officers executed a
search warrant at the home of claimant James Daniel Good.
The search uncovered about 89 pounds of marijuana, marijuana seeds, vials containing hashish oil, and drug paraphernalia. About six months later, Good pleaded guilty to promoting a harmful drug in the second degree, in violation of
Hawaii law. Haw. Rev. Stat. §712-1245(1)(b) (1985). He
was sentenced to one year in jail and five years' probation,
and fined $1,000. Good was also required to forfeit to the
State $3,187 in cash found on the premises.
On August 8, 1989, 41/2years after the drugs were found,
the United States filed an in rem action in the United States
District Court for the District of Hawaii, seeking to forfeit
Good's house and the 4-acre parcel on which it was situated.
The United States sought forfeiture under 21 U. S. C.
§881(a)(7), on the ground that the property had been used to
commit or facilitate the commission of a federal drug offense.'
'Title 21 U. S. C. §881(a)(7) provides:

"(a) ...
"The following shall be subject to forfeiture to the United States and
no property right shall exist in them:

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)
Opinion of the Court

On August 18, 1989, in an ex parte proceeding, a United
States Magistrate Judge found that the Government had established probable cause to believe Good's property was subject to forfeiture under §881(a)(7). A warrant of arrest in
rem was issued, authorizing seizure of theproperty. The
warrant was based on an affidavit recounting the fact of
Good's conviction and the evidence discovered during the
January 1985 search of his home by Hawaii police.
The Government seized the property on August 21, 1989,
without prior notice to Good or an adversary hearing. At
the time of the seizure, Good was renting his home to tenants
for $900 per month. The Government permitted the tenants
to remain on the premises subject to an occupancy agreement, but directed the payment of future rents to the United
States Marshal.
Good filed a claim for the property and an answer to the
Government's complaint. He asserted that the seizure deprived him of his property without due process of law and
that the forfeiture action was invalid because it had not been
timely commenced under the statute. The District Court
granted the Government's motion for summary judgment
and entered an order forfeiting the property.
The' Curt of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed in
part, reversed in part, and remanded for further proceedings. 971 F. 2d 1376 (1992). The court was unanimous in
holding that the seizure of Good's property, without prior
notice and a hearing, violated the Due Process Clause.
"(7) All real property, including any right, title, and interest (including
any leasehold interest) in the whole of any lot or tract of land and any
appurtenances or improvements, which is used, or intended to be used, in
any manner or part, to commit, or to facilitate the commission of, a violation of this subchapter punishable by more than one year's imprisonment,
except that no property shall be forfeited under this paragraph, to the
extent of an interest of an owner, by reason of any act or omission established by that owner to have been committed or omitted without the
knowledge or consent of that owner."

48

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY
Opinion of the Court

In a divided decision, the Court of Appeals further held
that the District Court erred in finding the action timely.
The Court of Appeals ruled that the 5-year statute of limitations in 19 U. S. C. § 1621 is only an "outer limit" for filing a
forfeiture action, and that further limits are imposed by 19
U. S. C. §§ 1602-1604. 971 F. 2d, at 1378-1382. Those provisions, the court reasoned, impose a "series of internal notification and reporting requirements," under which "customs
agents must report to customs officers, customs officers must
report to the United States attorney, and the Attorney General must 'immediately' and 'forthwith' bring a forfeiture
action if he believes that one 'is warranted." Id., at 1379
(citations omitted). The Court of Appeals ruled that failure
to comply with these internal reporting rules could require
dismissal of the forfeiture action as untimely. The court remanded the case for a determination whether the Government had satisfied its obligation to make prompt reports.
Id., at 1382.
We granted certiorari, 507 U. S. 983 (1993), to resolve a
conflict among the Courts of Appeals on the constitutional
question presented. Compare United States v. Premises
and Real Property at 4492 South Livonia Road, 889 F. 2d
1258 (CA2 1989), with United States v. A Single Family Residence and Real Property, 803 F. 2d 625 (CAll 1986). We
now affirm the due process ruling and reverse the ruling on
the timeliness question.
II
The Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment guarantees that "[n]o person shall ... be deprived of life, liberty,
or property, without due process of law." Our precedents
establish the general rule that individuals must receive notice and an opportunity to be heard before the Government
deprives them of property. See United States v. $8,850, 461
U. S. 555, 562, n. 12 (1983); Fuentes v. Shevin, 407 U. S. 67,
82 (1972); Sniadach v. Family Finance Corp. of Bay View,

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)
Opinion of the Court

395 U. S. 337, 342 (1969) (Harlan, J., concurring); Mullane v.
Central HanoverBank & Trust Co., 339 U. S. 306, 313 (1950).
The Government does not, and could not, dispute that the
seizure of Good's home and 4-acre parcel deprived him of
property interests protected by the Due Process Clause.
By the Government's own submission, the seizure gave it the
right to charge rent, to condition occupancy, and even to evict
the occupants. Instead, the Government argues that it afforded Good all the process the Constitution requires. The
Government makes two separate points in this regard.
First, it contends that compliance with the Fourth Amendment suffices when the Government seizes property for purposes of forfeiture. In the alternative, it argues that the
seizure of real property under the drug forfeiture laws justifies an exception to the usual due process requirement of
preseizure notice and hearing. We turn to these issues.
A
The Government argues that because civil forfeiture
serves a "law enforcement purpos[e]," Brief for United
States 13, the Government need comply only with the Fourth
Amendment when seizing forfeitable property. We disagree. The Fourth Amendment does place restrictions on
seizures conducted for purposes of civil forfeiture, One 1958
Plymouth Sedan v. Pennsylvania,380 U. S. 693, 696 (1965)
(holding that the exclusionary rule applies to civil forfeiture),
but it does not follow that the Fourth Amendment is the sole
constitutional provision in question when the Government
seizes property subject to forfeiture.
We have rejected the view that the applicability of one
constitutional amendment pre-empts the guarantees of another. As explained in Soldal v. Cook County, 506 U. S. 56,
70 (1992):
"Certain wrongs affect more than a single right and,
accordingly, can implicate more than one of the Constitution's commands. Where such multiple violations

50

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY
Opinion of the Court

are alleged, we are not in the habit of identifying as a
preliminary matter the claim's 'dominant' character.
Rather, we examine each constitutional provision in
turn."
Here, as in Soldal, the seizure of property implicates two
"'explicit textual source[s] of constitutional protection,"' the
Fourth Amendment and the Fifth. Ibid. The proper question is not which Amendment controls but whether either
Amendment is violated.
Nevertheless, the Government asserts that when property
is seized for forfeiture, the Fourth Amendment provides the
full measure of process due under the Fifth. The Government relies on Gerstein v. Pugh, 420 U. S. 103 (1975), and
Graham v. Connor, 490 U. S. 386 (1989), in support of this
proposition. That reliance is misplaced. Gerstein and Graham concerned not the seizure of property but the arrest or
detention of criminal suspects, subjects we have considered
to be governed by the provisions of the Fourth Amendment
without reference to other constitutional guarantees. In
addition, also unlike the seizure presented by this case, the
arrest or detention of a suspect occurs as part of the regular
criminal process, where other safeguards ordinarily ensure
compliance with due process.
Gersteinheld that the Fourth Amendment, rather than the
Due Process Clause, determines the requisite postarrest proceedings when individuals are detained on criminal charges.
Exclusive reliance on the Fourth Amendment is appropriate
in the arrest context, we explained, because the Amendment
was "tailored explicitly for the criminal justice system," and
its "balance between individual and public interests always
has been thought to define the 'process that is due' for seizures of person or property in criminal cases." 420 U. S.,
at 125, n. 27. Furthermore, we noted that the protections
afforded during an arrest and initial detention are "only the
first stage of an elaborate system, unique in jurisprudence,

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)
Opinion of the Court

designed to safeguard the rights of those accused of criminal
conduct." Ibid. (emphasis in original).
So too, in Graham we held that claims of excessive force
in the course of an arrest or investigatory stop should be
evaluated under the Fourth Amendment reasonableness
standard, not under the "more generalized notion of 'substantive due process."' 490 U. S., at 395. Because the
degree of force used to effect a seizure is one determinant
of its reasonableness, and because the Fourth Amendment
guarantees citizens the right "to be secure in their persons
...against unreasonable... seizures," we held that a claim
of excessive force in the course of such a seizure is "most
properly characterized as one invoking the protections of the
Fourth Amendment." Id., at 394.
Neither Gerstein nor Graham,however, provides support
for the proposition that the Fourth Amendment is the beginning and end of the constitutional inquiry whenever a seizure
occurs. That proposition is inconsistent with the approach
we took in Calero-Toledov. Pearson Yacht Leasing Co., 416
U. S. 663 (1974), which examined the constitutionality of ex
parte seizures of forfeitable property under general principles of due process, rather than the Fourth Amendment.
And it is at odds with our reliance on the Due Process Clause
to analyze prejudgment seizure and sequestration of personal property. See, e. g., Fuentes v. Shevin, 407 U. S. 67
(1972); Mitchell v. W T Grant Co., 416 U. S.600 (1974).
It is true, of course, that the Fourth Amendment applies
to searches and seizures in the civil context and may serve
to resolve the legality of these governmental actions without
reference to other constitutional provisions. See Camarav.
Municipal Court of City and County of San Francisco,387
U. S.523 (1967) (holding that a warrant based on probable
cause is required for administrative search of residences for
safety inspections); Skinner v. Railway Labor Executives'
Assn., 489 U. S.602 (1989) (holding that federal regulations
authorizing railroads to conduct blood and urine tests of cer-

52

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY
Opinion of the Court

tain employees, without a warrant and without reasonable
suspicion, do not violate the Fourth Amendment prohibition
against unreasonable searches and seizures). But the purpose and effect of the Government's action in the present
case go beyond the traditional meaning of search or seizure.
Here the Government seized property not to preserve evidence of wrongdoing, but to assert ownership and control
over the property itself. Our cases establish that government action of this consequence must comply with the Due
Process Clauses of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments.
Though the Fourth Amendment places limits on the Government's power to seize property for purposes of forfeiture,
it does not provide the sole measure of constitutional protection that must be afforded property owners in forfeiture proceedings. So even assuming that the Fourth Amendment
were satisfied in this case, it remains for us to determine
whether the seizure complied with our well-settled jurisprudence under the Due Process Clause.
B
Whether ex parte seizures of forfeitable property satisfy
the Due Process Clause is a question we last confronted in
Calero-Toledo v. Pearson Yacht Leasing Co., supra, which
held that the Government could seize a yacht subject to civil
forfeiture without affording prior notice or hearing. Central to our analysis in Calero-Toledo was the fact that a yacht
was the "sort [of property] that could be removed to another
jurisdiction, destroyed, or concealed, if advance warning of
confiscation were given." Id., at 679. The ease with which
an owner could frustrate the Government's interests in the
forfeitable property created a "'special need for very prompt
action"' that justified the postponement of notice and hearing until after the seizure. Id., at 678 (quoting Fuentes,
supra, at 91).
We had no occasion in Calero-Toledoto decide whether the
same considerations apply to the forfeiture of real property,

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)

Opinion of the Court

which, by its very nature, can be neither moved nor concealed. In fact, when Calero-Toledo was decided, both the
Puerto Rican statute, P. R. Laws Ann., Tit. 24, §2512 (Supp.
1973), and the federal forfeiture statute upon which it was
modeled, 21 U. S. C. § 881 (1970 ed.), authorized the forfeiture
of personal property only. It was not until 1984, 10 years
later, that Congress amended § 881 to authorize the forfeiture of real property. See 21 U. S. C. § 881(a)(7); Pub. L. 98473, §306, 98 Stat. 2050.
The right to prior notice and a hearing is central to the
Constitution's command of due process. "The purpose of
this requirement is not only to ensure abstract fair play to
the individual. Its purpose, more particularly, is to protect
his use and possession of property from arbitrary encroachment-to minimize substantively unfair or mistaken deprivations of property.. . ." Fuentes, 407 U. S., at 80-81.
We tolerate some exceptions to the general rule requiring
predeprivation notice and hearing, but only in "'extraordinary situations where some valid governmental interest is
at stake that justifies postponing the hearing until after the
event."' Id., at 82 (quoting Boddie v. Connecticut, 401 U. S.
371, 379 (1971)); United States v. $8,850, 461 U. S., at 562,
n. 12. Whether the seizure of real property for purposes of
civil forfeiture justifies such an exception requires an examination of the competing interests at stake, along with the
promptness and adequacy of later proceedings. The threepart inquiry set forth in Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U. S. 319
(1976), provides guidance in this regard. The Mathews
analysis requires us to consider the private interest affected
by the official action; the risk of an erroneous deprivation of
that interest through the procedures used, as well as the
probable value of additional safeguards; and the Government's interest, including the administrative burden that additional procedural requirements would impose. Id., at 335.
Good's right to maintain control over his home, and to be
free from governmental interference, is a private interest of

54

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY
Opinion of the Court

historic and continuing importance. Cf. United States v.
Karo, 468 U. S. 705, 714-715 (1984); Payton v. New York, 445
U. S. 573, 590 (1980). The seizure deprived Good of valuable
rights of ownership, including the right of sale, the' right of
occupancy, the right to unrestricted use and enjoyment, and
the right to receive rents. All that the seizure left him, by
the Government's own submission, was the right to bring a
claim for the return of title at some unscheduled future
hearing.
In Fuentes, we held that the loss of kitchen appliances and
household furniture was significant enough to warrant a predeprivation hearing. 407 U. S., at 70-71. And in Connecticut v. Doehr, 501 U. S. 1 (1991), we held that a state statute
authorizing prejudgment attachment of real estate without
prior notice or hearing was unconstitutional, in the absence
of extraordinary circumstances, even though the attachment
did not interfere with the owner's use or possession and
did not affect, as a general matter, rentals from existing
leaseholds.
The seizure of a home produces a far greater deprivation
than the loss of furniture, or even attachment. It gives the
Government not only the right to prohibit sale, but also the
right to evict occupants, to modify the property, to condition
occupancy, to receive rents, and to supersede the owner in
all rights pertaining to the use, possession, and enjoyment
of the property.
The Government makes much of the fact that Good was
renting his home to tenants, and contends that the tangible
effect of the seizure was limited to taking the $900 a month
he was due in rent. But even if this were the only deprivation at issue, it would not render the loss insignificant or
unworthy of due process protection. The rent represents a
significant portion of the exploitable economic value of
Good's home. It cannot be classified as de minimis for
purposes of procedural due process. In sum, the private

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)
Opinion of the Court

interests at stake in the seizure of real property weigh heavily in the Mathews balance.
The practice of ex parte seizure, moreover, creates an unacceptable risk of error. Although Congress designed the
drug forfeiture statute to be a powerful instrument in enforcement of the drug laws, it did not intend to deprive innocent owners of their property. The affirmative defense of
innocent ownership is allowed by statute. See 21 U. S. C.
§ 881(a)(7) ("[N]o property shall be forfeited under this paragraph, to the extent of an interest of an owner, by reason of
any act or omission established by that owner to have been
committed or omitted without the knowledge or consent of
that owner").
The ex parte preseizure proceeding affords little or no protection to the innocent owner. In issuing a warrant of seizure, the magistrate judge need determine only that there is
probable cause to believe that the real property was "used,
or intended to be used, in any manner or part, to commit, or
to facilitate the commission of," a felony narcotics offense.
Ibid. The Government is not required to offer any evidence
on the question of innocent ownership or other potential defenses a claimant might have. See, e. g., Austin v. United
States, 509 U. S. 602 (1993) (holding that forfeitures under 21
U. S. C. §§ 881(a)(4) and (a)(7) are subject to the limitations
of the Excessive Fines Clause). Nor would that inquiry, in
the ex parte stage, suffice to protect the innocent owner's
interests. "[F]airness can rarely be obtained by secret,
one-sided determination of facts decisive of rights ....
No
better instrument has been devised for arriving at truth than
to give a person in jeopardy of serious loss notice of the case
against him and opportunity to meet it." Joint Anti-Fascist
Refugee Comm. v. McGrath, 341 U. S. 123, 170-172 (1951)
(Frankfurter, J., concurring) (footnotes omitted).
The purpose of an adversary hearing is to ensure the requisite neutrality that must inform all governmental decisionmaking. That protection is of particular importance here,

56

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY
Opinion of the Court

where the Government has a direct pecuniary interest in the
outcome of the proceeding. 2 See Harmelinv. Michigan, 501
U. S.957, 979, n. 9 (1991) (opinion of SCALIA, J.) ("[I]t makes
sense to scrutinize governmental action more closely when
the State stands to benefit"). Moreover, the availability of
a postseizure hearing may be no recompense for losses
caused by erroneous seizure. Given the congested civil
dockets in federal courts, a claimant may not receive an adversary hearing until many months after the seizure. And
even if the ultimate judicial decision is that the claimant was
an innocent owner, or that the Government lacked probable
cause, this determination, coming months after the seizure,
"would not cure the temporary deprivation that an earlier
hearing might have prevented." Doehr, 501 U. S., at 15.
This brings us to the third consideration under Mathews,
"the Government's interest, including the function involved
and the fiscal and administrative burdens that the additional
or substitute procedural requirement would entail." 424
U. S., at 335. The governmental interest we consider here
is not some general interest in forfeiting property but the
specific interest in seizing real property before the forfeiture
hearing. The question in the civil forfeiture context is
whether ex parte seizure is justified by a pressing need for
prompt action. See Fuentes, 407 U. S., at 91. We find no
pressing need here.
2The

extent of the Government's financial stake in drug forfeiture is
apparent from a 1990 memo, in which the Attorney General urged United
States Attorneys to increase the volume of forfeitures in order to meet
the Department of Justice's annual budget target:
"We must significantly increase production to reach our budget target.
"... Failure to achieve the $470 million projection would expose the
Department's forfeiture program to criticism and undermine confidence in
our budget projections. Every effort must be made to increase forfeiture
income during the remaining three months of [fiscal year] 1990." Executive Office for United States Attorneys, U. S. Dept. of Justice, 38 United
States Attorney's Bulletin 180 (1990).

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)

Opinion of the Court

This is apparent by comparison to Calero-Toledo, where
the Government's interest in immediate seizure of a yacht
subject to civil forfeiture justified dispensing with the usual
requirement of prior notice and hearing. Two essential considerations informed our ruling in that case: First, immediate seizure was necessary to establish the court's jurisdiction
over the property, 416 U. S., at 679, and second, the yacht
might have disappeared had the Government given advance
warning of the forfeiture action, ibid. See also United
States v. Von Neumann, 474 U. S. 242, 251 (1986) (no preseizure hearing is required when customs officials seize an
automobile at the border). Neither of these factors is
present when the target of forfeiture is real property.
Because real property cannot abscond, the court's jurisdiction can be preserved without prior seizure. It is true that
seizure of the res has long been considered a prerequisite to
the initiation of in rem forfeiture proceedings. See Republic Nat. Bank of Miami v. United States, 506 U. S. 80, 84
(1992); United States v. One Assortment of 89 Firearms,465
U. S.354, 363 (1984). This rule had its origins in the Court's
early admiralty cases, which involved the forfeiture of vessels and other movable personal property. See Taylor v.
Carryl, 20 How. 583, 599 (1858); The Brig Ann, 9 Cranch
289 (1815); Keene v. United States, 5 Cranch 304, 310 (1809).
Justice Story, writing for the Court in The Brig Ann, explained the justification for the rule as one of fixing and preserving jurisdiction: "[B]efore judicial cognizance can attach
upon a forfeiture in rem,... there must be a seizure; for
until seizure it is impossible to ascertain what is the competent forum." 9 Cranch, at 291. But when the res is real
property, rather than personal goods, the appropriate judicial forum may be determined without actual seizure.
As The Brig Ann held, all that is necessary "[i]n order to
institute and perfect proceedings in rem, [is] that the thing
should be actually or constructively within the reach of the
Court." Ibid. And as we noted last Term, "[f]airly read,

58

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY
Opinion of the Court

The Brig Ann simply restates the rule that the court must
have actual or constructive control of the res when an in rem
forfeiture suit is initiated." Republic Nat. Bank, supra, at
87. In the case of real property, the res may be brought
within the reach of the court simply by posting notice on the
property and leaving a copy of the process with the occupant.
In fact, the rules which govern forfeiture proceedings under
§881 already permit process to be executed on real property
without physical seizure:
"If the character or situation of the property is such that
the taking of actual possession is impracticable, the marshal or other person executing the process shall affix a
copy thereof to the property in a conspicuous place and
leave a copy of the complaint and process with the person having possession or the person's agent." Rule
E(4)(b), Supplemental Rules for Certain Admiralty and
Maritime Claims.
See also United States v. TWP 17 R 4, Certain Real Property in Maine, 970 F. 2d 984, 986, and n. 4 (CAI 1992).
Nor is the ex parte seizure of real property necessary to
accomplish the statutory purpose of §881(a)(7). The Government's legitimate interests at the inception of forfeiture
proceedings are to ensure that the property not be sold, destroyed, or used for further illegal activity prior to the forfeiture judgment. These legitimate interests can be secured
without seizing the subject property.
Sale of the property can be prevented by filing a notice of
lis pendens as authorized by state law when the forfeiture
proceedings commence. 28 U. S. C. § 1964; and see Haw.
Rev. Stat. § 634-51 (1985) (lis pendens provision). If there
is evidence, in a particular case, that an owner is likely to
destroy his property when advised of the pending action, the
Government may obtain an ex parte restraining order, or
other appropriate relief, upon a proper showing in district
court. See Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 65; United States v. Prem-

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)
Opinion of the Court

ises and Real Property at 4492 South Livonia Road, 889
F. 2d 1258, 1265 (CA2 1989). The Government's policy of
leaving occupants in possession of real property under an
occupancy agreement pending the final forfeiture ruling
demonstrates that there is no serious concern about destruction in the ordinary case. See Brief for United States 13,
n. 6 (citing Directive No. 90-10 (Oct. 9, 1990), Executive Office for Asset Forfeiture, Office of Deputy Attorney General).
Finally, the Government can forestall further illegal activity
with search and arrest warrants obtained in the ordinary
course.
In the usual case, the Government thus has various means,
short of seizure, to protect its legitimate interests in forfeitable real property. There is no reason to take the additional
step of asserting control over the property without first affording notice and an adversary hearing.
Requiring the Government to postpone seizure until after
an adversary hearing creates no significant administrative
burden. A claimant is already entitled to an adversary
hearing before a final judgment of forfeiture. No extra
hearing would be required in the typical case, since the Government can wait until after the forfeiture judgment to seize
the property. From an administrative standpoint it makes
little difference whether that hearing is held before or after
the seizure. And any harm that results from delay is minimal in comparison to the injury occasioned by erroneous
seizure.
C
It is true that, in cases decided over a century ago, we
permitted the ex parte seizure of real property when the
Government was collecting debts or revenue. See, e. g.,
Springer v. United States, 102 U. S. 586, 593-594 (1881);
Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken Land & Improvement Co., 18
How. 272 (1856). Without revisiting these cases, it suffices
to say that their apparent rationale-like that for allowing
summary seizures during wartime, see Stoehr v. Wallace, 255

60

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY
Opinion of the Court

U. S. 239 (1921); Bowles v. Willingham, 321 U. S. 503 (1944),
and seizures of contaminated food, see North American Cold
Storage Co. v. Chicago, 211 U. S. 306 (1908)-was one of executive urgency. "The prompt payment of taxes," we noted,
"may be vital to the existence of a government." Springer,
supra, at 594. See also G. M. Leasing Corp. v. United
States, 429 U. S. 338, 352, n. 18 (1977) ("The rationale underlying [the revenue] decisions, of course, is that the very existence of government depends upon the prompt collection of
the revenues").
A like rationale justified the ex parte seizure of taxdelinquent distilleries in the late 19th century, see, e. g.,
United States v. Stowell, 133 U. S. 1 (1890); Dobbins's Distillery v. United States, 96 U. S. 395 (1878), since before passage
of the Sixteenth Amendment, the Federal Government relied
heavily on liquor, customs, and tobacco taxes to generate operating revenues. In 1902, for example, nearly 75 percent
of total federal revenues--$479 million out of a total of $653
million-was raised from taxes on liquor, customs, and tobacco. See U. S. Bureau of Census, Historical Statistics of
the United States, Colonial Times to the Present 1122 (1976).
The federal income tax code adopted in the first quarter
of this century, however, afforded the taxpayer notice and an
opportunity to be heard by the Board of Tax Appeals before
the Government could seize property for nonpayment of
taxes. See Revenue Act of 1921, 42 Stat. 265-266; Revenue
Act of 1924, 43 Stat. 297. In Phillips v. Commissioner,283
U. S. 589 (1931), the Court relied upon the availability, and
adequacy, of these preseizure administrative procedures in
holding that no judicial hearing was required prior to the
seizure of property. Id., at 597-599 (citing Act of Feb. 26,
1926, ch. 27, § 274(a), 44 Stat. 9, 55; Act of May 29, 1928, ch.
852, §§ 272(a), 601, 45 Stat. 791, 852, 872). These constraints
on the Commissioner could be overridden, but only when the
Commissioner made a determination that a jeopardy assessment was necessary. 283 U. S., at 598. Writing for a unani-

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)
Opinion of the Court

mous Court, Justice Brandeis explained that under the tax
laws "[f]ormal notice of the tax liability is thus given; the
Commissioner is required to answer; and there is a complete
These provisions amply protect the
hearing de novo ....
[taxpayer] against improper administrative action." Id., at
598-599; see also Commissioner v. Shapiro, 424 U. S. 614,
631 (1976) ("[In] the Phillips case.., the taxpayer's assets
could not have been taken or frozen ... until he had either
had, or waived his right to, a full and final adjudication of his
tax liability before the Tax Court (then the Board of Tax
Appeals)").
Similar provisions remain in force today. The current Internal Revenue Code prohibitsthe Government from levying
upon a deficient taxpayer's property without first affording
the taxpayer notice and an opportunity for a hearing, unless
exigent circumstances indicate that delay will jeopardize the
collection of taxes due. See 26 U. S. C. §§ 6212, 6213, 6851,
6861.
Just as the urgencies that justified summary seizure of
property in the 19th century had dissipated by the time of
Phillips, neither is there a plausible claim of urgency today
to justify the summary seizure of real property under
§ 881(a)(7). Although the Government relies to some extent
on forfeitures as a means of defraying law enforcement expenses, it does not, and we think could not, justify the prehearing seizure of forfeitable real property as necessary for
the protection of its revenues.
D
The constitutional limitations we enforce in this case apply
to real property in general, not simply to residences. That
said, the case before us well illustrates an essential principle:
Individual freedom finds tangible expression in property
rights. At stake in this and many other forfeiture cases are
the security and privacy of the home and those who take
shelter within it.

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY
Opinion of the Court

62

Finally, the suggestion that this one claimant must lose
because his conviction was known at the time of seizure, and
because he raises an as applied challenge to the statute,
founders on a bedrock proposition: Fair procedures are not
confined to the innocent. The question before us is the legality of the seizure, not the strength of the Government's
case.
In sum, based upon the importance of the private interests
at risk and the absence of countervailing Government needs,
we hold that the seizure of real property under §881(a)(7)
is not one of those extraordinary instances that justify the
postponement of notice and hearing. Unless exigent circumstances are present, the Due Process Clause requires the
Government to afford notice and a meaningful opportunity
to be heard before seizing real property subject to civil
8

forfeiture.

To establish exigent circumstances, the Government must
show that less restrictive measures-i. e., a ls pendens, restraining order, or bond-would not suffice to protect the
Government's interests in preventing the sale, destruction,
or continued unlawful use of the real property. We agree
with the Court of Appeals that no showing of exigent circumstances has been made in this case, and we affirm its ruling
that the ex parte seizure of Good's real property violated
due process.
III
We turn now to the question whether a court must dismiss
a forfeiture action that the Government filed within the statI We do not address what sort of procedures are required for preforfeiture seizures of real property in the context of criminal forfeiture. See,
e. g., 21 U.S. C.§ 853; 18 U.S. C. § 1963 (1988 ed. and Supp. IV). We note,
however, that the federal drug laws now permit seizure before entry of a
criminal forfeiture judgment only where the Government persuades a district court that there is probable cause to believe that a protective order
"may not be sufficient to assure the availability of the property for forfeit-

ure." 21 U.S. C.§853(f).

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)
Opinion of the Court

ute of limitations, but without complying with certain other
statutory timing directives.
Title 21 U. S. C. §881(d) incorporates the "provisions of law
relating to the seizure, summary and judicial forfeiture, and
condemnation of property for violation of the customs laws."
The customs laws in turn set forth various timing requirements. Title 19 U. S. C. § 1621 contains the statute of limitations: "No suit or action to recover any pecuniary penalty or
forfeiture of property accruing under the customs laws shall
be instituted unless such suit or action is commenced within
five years after the time when the alleged offense was discovered." All agree that the Government filed its action
within the statutory period.
The customs laws also contain a series of internal
requirements relating to the timing of forfeitures. Title 19 U. S. C.
§ 1602 requires that a customs agent "report immediately" to
a customs officer every seizure for. violation of the customs
laws, and every violation of the customs laws. Section 1603
requires that the customs officer "report promptly" such seizures or violations to the United States attorney., And
§ 1604 requires the Attorney General "forthwith to cause the
proper proceedings to be commenced" if it appears probable
that any fine, penalty, or forfeiture has been incurred. The
Court of Appeals held, over a dissent, that failure to comply
with these internal timing requirements mandates dismissal
of the forfeiture action. We disagree.
We have long recognized that "many statutory requisitions
intended for the guide of officers in the conduct of business
devolved upon them ... do not limit their power or render
its exercise in disregard of the requisitions ineffectual."
French v. Edwards, 13 Wall. 506, 511 (1872). We have held
that if a statute does not specify a consequence for noncompliance with statutory timing provisions, the federal courts
will not in the ordinary course impose their own coercive
sanction. See United States V.Montalvo-Murilo, 495 U. S.
711, 717-721 (1990); Brock v. Pierce County, 476 U. S. 253,

64

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY
Opinion of the Court

259-262 (1986); see also St. Regis Mohawk Tribe v. Brock,
769 F. 2d 37, 41 (CA2 1985) (Friendly, J.).
In Montalvo-Murillo, for example, we considered the Bail
Reform Act of 1984, which requires an "immediat[e]" hearing
upon a pretrial detainee's "first appearance before the judicial officer." 18 U. S. C. §3142(f). Because "[n]either the
timing requirements nor any other part of the Act [could] be
read to require, or even suggest, that a timing error must
result in release of a person who should otherwise be detained," we held that the federal courts could not release a
person pending trial solely because the hearing had not been
held "immediately." 495 U. S., at 716-717. We stated that
"[t]here is no presumption or general rule that for every duty
imposed upon the court or the Government and its prosecutors there must exist some corollary punitive sanction for
departures or omissions, even if negligent." Id., at 717 (citing French,supra, at 511). To the contrary, we stated that
"[w]e do not agree that we should, or can, invent a remedy
to satisfy some perceived need to coerce the courts and the
Government into complying with the statutory time limits."
495 U. S., at 721.
Similarly, in Brock, supra,we considered a statute requiring that the Secretary of Labor begin an investigation within
120 days of receiving information about the misuse of federal
funds. The respondent there argued that failure to act
within the specified time period divested the Secretary of
authority to investigate a claim after the time limit had
passed. We rejected that contention, relying on the fact
that the statute did not specify a consequence for a failure
to comply with the timing provision. Id., at 258-262.
Under our precedents, the failure of Congress to specify a
consequence for noncompliance with the timing requirements
of 19 U. S. C. §§ 1602-1604 implies that Congress intended
the responsible officials administering the Act to have discretion to determine what disciplinary measures are appropriate when their subordinates fail to discharge their statu-

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)
Opinion of REHNQUIST,

C. J.

tory duties. Examination of the structure and history of the
internal timing provisions at issue in this case supports the
conclusion that the courts should not dismiss a forfeiture action for noncompliance. Because § 1621 contains a statute of
limitations-the usual legal protection against stale claimswe doubt Congress intended to require dismissal of a forfeiture action for noncompliance with the internal timing requirements of §§ 1602-1604. Cf. United States v. $8,850, 461
U. S., at 563, n. 13.
Statutes requiring customs officials to proceed with dispatch have existed at least since 1799. See Act of Mar. 2,
1799, § 89, 1 Stat. 695-696. These directives help to ensure
that the Government is prompt in obtaining revenue from
forfeited property. It would make little sense to interpret
directives designed to ensure the expeditious collection of
revenues in a way that renders the Government unable, in
certain circumstances, to obtain its revenues at all.
We hold that courts may not dismiss a forfeiture action
filed within the 5-year statute of limitations for noncompliance with the internal timing requirements of §§ 1602-1604.
The Government filed the action in this case within the 5year statute of limitations, and that sufficed to make it
timely. We reverse the contrary holding of the Court of
Appeals.
IV
The case is remanded for further proceedings consistent
with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST, with whom JUSTICE SCALIA
joins, and with whom JUSTICE O'CONNOR joins as to Parts

II and III, concurring in part and dissenting in part.
I concur in Parts I and III of the Court's opinion and dissent with respect to Part II. The Court today departs from
longstanding historical precedent and concludes that the ex
parte warrant requirement under the Fourth Amendment

66

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY
Opinion of REHNQUIST, C. J.

fails to afford adequate due process protection to property
owners who have been convicted of a crime that renders
their real property susceptible to civil forfeiture under 21
U. S. C. §881(a)(7). It reaches this conclusion although no
such adversary hearing is required to deprive a criminal defendant of his liberty before trial. And its reasoning casts
doubt upon long settled law relating to seizure of property
to enforce income tax liability. I dissent from this illconsidered and disruptive decision.
I
The Court applies the three-factor balancing test for evaluating procedural due process claims set out in Mathews v.
Eldridge, 424 U. S. 319 (1976), to reach its unprecedented
holding. I reject the majority's expansive application of
Mathews. Mathews involved a due process challenge to the
adequacy of administrative procedures established for the
purpose of terminating Social Security disability benefits,
and the Mathews balancing test was first conceived to address due process claims arising in the context of modern
administrative law. No historical practices existed in this
context for the Court to consider. The Court has expressly
rejected the notion that the Mathews balancing test constitutes a "one-size-fits-all" formula for deciding every due
process claim that comes before the Court. See Medina v.
California,505 U. S.437 (1992) (holding that the Due Process Clause has limited operation beyond the specific guarantees enumerated in the Bill of Rights). More importantly,
the Court does not work on a clean slate in the civil forfeiture
context involved here. It has long sanctioned summary proceedings in civil forfeitures. See, e. g., Dobbins's Distillery
v. United States, 96 U. S.395 (1878) (upholding seizure of a
distillery by executive officers based on ex parte warrant);
and G.M. Leasing Corp. v. United States, 429 U. S.338 (1977)
(upholding warrantless automobile seizures).

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)
Opinion of REHNQUIST, C. J.

A
The Court's fixation on Mathews sharply cofiflicts with
both historical practice and the specific textual source of the
Fourth Amendment's "reasonableness" inquiry. The Fourth
Amendment strikes a balance between the people's security
in their persons, houses, papers, and effects and the public
interest in effecting searches and seizures for law enforcement purposes. Zurcher v. Stanford Daily, 436 U. S. 547,
559 (1978); see also Maryland v. Buie, 494 U. S. 325, 331
(1990); and Skinner v. Railway Labor Executives' Assn., 489
U. S. 602, 619 (1989). Compliance with the standards and
procedures prescribed by the Fourth Amendment constitutes all the "process" that is "due" to respondent Good
under the Fifth Amendment in the forfeiture context. We
made this very point in Gerstein v. Pugh, 420 U. S. 103
(1975), with respect to procedures for detaining a criminal
defendant pending trial:
"The historical basis of the probable cause requirement
is quite different from the relatively recent application
of variable procedural due process in debtor-creditor
disputes and termination of government-created benefits. The Fourth Amendment was tailored explicitly for
the criminal justice system, and its balance between individual and public interests always has been thought to
define the 'process that is due' for seizures of person
or property in criminal cases, including the detention of
suspects pending trial." Id., at 125, n. 27 (emphasis
added).
The Gerstein Court went on to decide that while there must
be a determination of probable cause by a neutral magistrate
in order to detain an arrested suspect prior to trial, such a
determination could be made in a nonadversarial proceeding,
based on hearsay and written testimony. Id., at 120. It is
paradoxical indeed to hold that a criminal defendant can be
temporarily deprived of liberty on the basis of an ex parte

68

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY
Opinion of REHNQUIST, C. J.

probable-cause determination, yet respondent Good cannot
be temporarily deprived of property on the same basis. As
we said in United States v. Monsanto, 491 U. S. 600, 615616 (1989):
"[I]t would be odd to conclude that the Government may
not restrain property, such as the home and apartment
in respondent's possession, based on a finding of probable cause, when we have held that (under appropriate
circumstances), the Government may restrain persons
where there is a finding of probable cause to believe that
the accused has committed a serious offense."
Similarly, in Graham v. Connor, 490 U. S. 386, 394-395
(1989), the Court faced the question of what constitutional
standard governs a free citizen's claim that law enforcement
officials used excessive force in the course of making an arrest, investigatory stop, or other "seizure" of his person.
We held that the Fourth Amendment, rather than the Due
Process Clause, provides the source of any specific limitations on the use of force in seizing a person: "Because the
Fourth Amendment provides an explicit textual source of
constitutional protection against this sort of physically intrusive governmental conduct, that Amendment, not the more
generalized notion of 'substantive due process' must be the
guide for analyzing these claims." Id., at 395. The "explicit textual source of constitutional protection" found in the
Fourth Amendment should also guide the analysis of respondent Good's claim of a right to additional procedural
measures in civil forfeitures.
B
The Court dismisses the holdings of Gerstein and Graham
as inapposite because they concern "the arrest or detention
of criminal suspects." Ante, at 50. But we have never held
that the Fourth Amendment is limited only to criminal proceedings. In Soldal v. Cook County, 506 U. S. 56, 67 (1992),

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)
Opinion of REHNQUIST, C. J.

we expressly stated that the Fourth Amendment "applies in
the civil context as well." Our historical treatment of civil
forfeiture procedures underscores the notion that the Fourth
Amendment specifically governs the process afforded in the
civil forfeiture context, and it is too late in the day to question its exclusive application. As we decided in CaleroToledo v. Pearson Yacht Leasing Co., 416 U. S. 663 (1974),
there is no need to look beyond the Fourth Amendment in
civil forfeiture proceedings involving the Government because ex parte seizures are "'too firmly fixed in the punitive
and remedial jurisprudence of the country to be now displaced."' Id., at 686 (quoting J W.Goldsmith, Jr.-GrantCo.
v. United States, 254 U. S. 505, 510-511 (1921) (forfeiture not
a denial of procedural due process despite the absence of
preseizure notice and opportunity for a hearing)).
The Court acknowledges the long history of ex parte seizures of real property through civil forfeiture, see Phillips
v. Commissioner, 283 U.S. 589 (1931); Springer v. United
States, 102 U. S. 586 (1881); Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken
Land & Improvement Co., 18 How. 272 (1856); United States
v. Stowell, 133 U. S. 1 (1890); and Dobbins's Distillery v.
United States, 96 U. S. 395 (1878), and says "[w]ithout revisiting these cases," ante, at 59-whatever that means-that
they appear to depend on the need for prompt payment of
taxes. The Court goes on to note that the passage of the
Sixteenth Amendment alleviated the Government's reliance
on liquor, customs, and tobacco taxes as sources of operating
revenue. Whatever the merits of this novel distinction, it
fails entirely to distinguish the leading case in the field, Phillips v. Commissioner,supra, a unanimous opinion authored
by Justice Brandeis. That case dealt with the enforcement
of income tax liability, which the Court says has replaced
earlier forms of taxation as the principal source of governmental revenue. There the Court said:
"The right of the United States to collect its internal revenue by summary administrative proceedings has

70

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY
Opinion of REHNQUIST, C. J.

long been settled. Where, as here, adequate opportunity is afforded for a later judicial determination of the
legal rights, summary proceedings to secure prompt performance of pecuniary obligations to the government
have been consistently sustained." Id., at 595 (footnote omitted).
"Where only property rights are involved, mere postponement of the judicial enquiry is not a denial of due
process, if the opportunity given for the ultimate judicial
determination of the liability is adequate." Id., at
596-597.
Thus today's decision does not merely discard established
precedents regarding excise taxes, but deals at least a glancing blow to the authority of the Government to collect income tax delinquencies by summary proceedings.
II
The Court attempts to justify the result it reaches by expansive readings of Fuentes v. Shevin, 407 U. S. 67 (1972),
and Connecticut v. Doehr, 501 U. S. 1 (1991). In Fuentes,
the Court struck down state replevin procedures, finding
that they served no important state interest that might justify the summary proceedings. 407 U. S., at 96. Specifically, the Court noted that the tension between the private
buyer's use of the property pending final judgment and the
private seller's interest in preventing further use and deterioration of his security tipped the balance in favor of a prior
hearing in certain replevin situations. "[The provisions]
allow summary seizure of a person's possessions when no
more than private gain is directly at stake." Id., at 92. Cf.
Mitchell v. W. T Grant Co., 416 U. S. 600 (1974) (upholding
Louisiana sequestration statute that provided immediate
postdeprivation hearing along with the option of damages).
The Court in Fuentes also was careful to point out the
limited situations in which seizure before hearing was constitutionally permissible, and included among them "summary

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)
Opinion of REHNQUIST, C. J.

seizure of property to collect the internal revenue of the
United States." 407 U. S., at 91-92 (citing Phillips v. Commissioner, supra). Certainly the present seizure is analogous, and it is therefore quite inaccurate to suggest that Fuentes is authority for the Court's holding in the present case.
Likewise in Doehr, the Court struck down a state statute
authorizing prejudgment attachment of real estate without
prior notice or hearing due to potential bias of the selfinterested private party seeking attachment. The Court
noted that the statute enables one of the private parties to
"'make use of state procedures with the overt, significant
assistance of state officials,"' that involve state action "'substantial enough to implicate the Due Process Clause."' Connecticut v. Doehr, supra, at 11 (quoting Tulsa Professional
Collection Services, Inc. v. Pope, 485 U. S.478, 486 (1988)).
The Court concluded that, absent exigent circumstances, the
private party's interest in attaching the property did not justify the burdening of the private property owner's rights
without a hearing to determine the likelihood of recovery.
501 U. S., at 18. In the present case, however, it is not a
private party but the Government itself which is seizing
the property.
The Court's effort to distinguish Calero-Toledo v. Pearson
Yacht Leasing Co., 416 U. S.663 (1974), is similarly unpersuasive. The Court says that "[c]entral to our analysis in
Calero-Toledo was the fact that a yacht was the 'sort [of
property] that could be removed to another jurisdiction,
destroyed, or concealed, if advance warning of confiscation
were given."' Ante, at 52 (quoting Calero-Toledo, supra, at
679). But this is one of the three reasons given by the Court
for upholding the summary forfeiture in that case: The other
two-"fostering the public interest in preventing continued
illicit use of the property," and the fact that the "seizure is
not initiated by self-interested private parties; rather, Commonwealth officials determine whether seizure is appropriate

. .

.

,"

416 U. S., at 679-are both met in the present

72

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY
Opinion of REHNQUIST, C. J.

case. And while not capable of being moved or concealed,
the real property at issue here surely could be destroyed or
damaged. Several dwellings are located on the property
that was seized from respondent Good, and these buildings
could easily be destroyed or damaged to prevent them from
falling into the hands of the Government if prior notice
were required.
The government interests found decisive in Calero-Toledo
are equally present here: The seizure of respondent Good's
real property serves important governmental purposes in
combating illegal drugs; a preseizure notice might frustrate
this statutory purpose by permitting respondent Good to destroy or otherwise damage the buildings on the property;
and Government officials made the seizure rather than selfinterested private parties seeking to gain from the seizure.
Although the Court has found some owners entitled to an
immediate postseizure administrative hearing, see, e. g.,
Mitchell v. W. T Grant Co., supra, not until the majority
adopted the Court of Appeals ruling have we held that the
Constitution demanded notice and a preseizure hearing to
satisfy due process requirements in civil forfeiture cases.*
III
This is not to say that the Government's use of civil forfeiture statutes to seize real property in drug cases may not
cause hardship to innocent individuals. But I have grave
*Ironically, courts and commentators have debated whether even a warrant should be required for civil forfeiture seizures, not whether notice
and a pre8eizure hearing should apply. See, e. g., Nelson, Should the

Ranch Go Free Because the Constable Blundered? Gaining Compliance
with Search and Seizure Standards in the Age of Asset Forfeiture, 80
Calif. L. Rev. 1309 (1992); Ahuja, Civil Forfeiture, Warrantless Property
Seizures, and the Fourth Amendment, 5 Yale L. & Policy Rev. 428 (1987);

and Comment, Forfeiture, Seizures and the Warrant Requirement, 48 U.
Chi. L. Rev. 960 (1981).

Forcing the Government to notify the affected

property owners and go through a preseizure hearing in civil forfeiture
cases must have seemed beyond the pale to these commentators.

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)
Opinion of O'CONNOR, J.

doubts whether the Court's decision in this case will do much
to alleviate those hardships, and I am confident that whatever social benefits might flow from the decision are more
than offset by the damage to settled principles of constitutional law which are inflicted to secure these perceived social
benefits. I would reverse the decision of the Court of Appeals in toto.
JUSTICE O'CONNOR,

concurring in part and dissenting in

part.
Today the Court declares unconstitutional an act of the
Executive Branch taken with the prior approval of a Federal
Magistrate Judge in full compliance with the laws enacted by
Congress. On the facts of this case, however, I am unable to
conclude that the seizure of Good's property did not afford
him due process. I agree with the Court's observation in an
analogous case more than a century ago: "If the laws here in
question involved any wrong or unnecessary harshness, it
was for Congress, or the people who make congresses, to see
that the evil was corrected. The remedy does not lie with
the judicial branch of the government." Springer v. United
States, 102 U. S. 586, 594 (1881).
I
With respect to whether 19 U. S. C. §§ 1602-1604 impose a
timeliness requirement over and above the statute of limitations, I agree with the dissenting judge below that the Ninth
Circuit improperly "converted a set of housekeeping rules
for the government into statutory protection for the property of malefactors." 971 F. 2d 1376, 1384 (1992). I therefore join Parts I and III of the Court's opinion.
I cannot agree, however, that under the circumstances of
this case-where the property owner was previously convicted of a drug offense involving the property, the Government obtained a warrant before seizing it, and the residents
were not dispossessed-there was a due process violation

74

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY
Opinion of

O'CONNOR, J.

simply because Good did not receive preseizure notice and
an opportunity to be heard. I therefore respectfully dissent
from Part II of the Court's opinion; I also join Parts II and
III of the opinion of THE CHIEF JUSTICE.
II

My first disagreement is with the Court's holding that the
Government must give notice and a hearing before seizing
any real property prior to forfeiting it. That conclusion is
inconsistent with over a hundred years of our case law. We
have already held that seizure for purpose of forfeiture is
one of those "extraordinary situations," Fuentes v. Shevin,
407 U. S. 67, 82 (1972) (internal quotation marks omitted), in
which the Due Process Clause does not require predeprivation notice and an opportunity to be heard. Calero-Toledo
v. Pearson Yacht Leasing Co., 416 U. S. 663, 676-680 (1974).
As we have recognized, Calero-Toledo "clearly indicates that
due process does not require federal [agents] to conduct a
hearing before seizing items subject to forfeiture." United
States v. $8,850, 461 U. S. 555, 562, n. 12 (1983); see also
United States v. Von Neumann, 474 U. S. 242, 249, n. 7
(1986). Those cases reflect the commonsense notion that the
property owner receives all the process that is due at the
forfeiture hearing itself. See id., at 251 ("[The claimant's]
right to a [timely] forfeiture proceeding.., satisfies any due
process right with respect to the [forfeited property]");
Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 274, 279 (1876).
The distinction the Court tries to draw between our precedents and this case-the only distinction it can draw-is that
real property is somehow different than personal property
for due process purposes. But that distinction has never
been considered constitutionally relevant in our forfeiture
cases. Indeed, this Court rejected precisely the same distinction in a case in which we were presented with a due
process challenge to the forfeiture of real property for back
taxes:

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)
Opinion of O'CONNOR, J.

"The power to distrain personal property for the payment of taxes is almost as old as the common law...
Why is it not competent for Congress to apply to realty
as well as personalty the power to distrain and sell when
necessary to enforce the payment of a tax? It is only
the further legitimate exercise of the same power for
the same purpose." Springer,supra, at 593-594.
There is likewise no basis for distinguishing between real
and personal property in the context of forfeiture of property
used for criminal purposes. The required nexus between
the property and the crime-that it be used to commit, or
facilitate the commission of, a drug offense-is the same
for forfeiture of real and personal property. Compare 21
U. S. C. §881(a)(4) with § 881(a)(7); see Austin v. United
States, 509 U. S. 602, 619-622 (1993) (construing the two provisions equivalently). Forfeiture of real property under
similar circumstances has long been recognized. Dobbins's
Distillery v. United States, 96 U. S. 395, 399 (1878) (upholding forfeiture of "the real estate used to facilitate the [illegal]
operation of distilling"); see also United States v. Stowell,
133 U. S. 1 (1890) (upholding forfeiture of land and buildings
used in connection with illegal brewery).
. The Court attempts to distinguish our precedents by characterizing them as being based on "executive urgency."
Ante, at 60. But this case, like all forfeiture cases, also
involves executive urgency. Indeed, the Court in CaleroToledo relied on the same cases the Court disparages:
"[D]ue process is not denied when postponement of notice and hearing is necessary to protect the public from
contaminated food, North American [Cold] Storage Co.
v. Chicago, 211 U. S. 306 (1908);... or to aid the collection of taxes, Phillips v. Commissioner, 283 U. S. 589
(1931); or the war effort, United States v. Pfitsch, 256
U. S. 547 (1921)." 416 U. S., at 679.

76

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY
Opinion of O'CONNOR, J.

The Court says that there is no "plausible claim of urgency
today to justify the summary seizure of real property under
§881(a)(7)." Ante, at 61. But we said precisely the opposite in Calero-Toledo: "The considerations that justified
postponement of notice and hearing in those cases are present here." 416 U. S., at 679. The only distinction between
this case and Calero-Toledo is that the property forfeited
here was realty, whereas the yacht in Calero-Toledo was
personalty.
It is entirely spurious to say, as the Court does, that executive urgency depends on the nature of the property sought
to be forfeited. The Court reaches its anomalous result by
mischaracterizing Calero-Toledo, stating that the movability
of the yacht there at issue was "[c]entral to our analysis."
Ante, at 52. What we actually said in Calero-Toledo, however, was that "preseizure notice and hearing might frustrate
the interests served by [forfeiture] statutes, since the property seized-as here, a yacht-will often be of a sort that
could be removed to another jurisdiction, destroyed, or concealed, if advance warning of confiscation were given." 416
U. S., at 679 (emphasis added). The fact that the yacht could
be sunk or sailed away was relevant to, but hardly dispositive
of, the due process analysis. In any event, land and buildings are subject to damage or destruction. See ante, at 72
(REHNQUIST, C. J., concurring in part and dissenting in part).
Moreover, that was just one of the three justifications on
which we relied in upholding the forfeiture in Calero-Toledo.
The other two-the importance of the governmental purpose
and the fact that the seizure was made by government
officials rather than private parties-are without a doubt
equally present in this case, as THE CHIEF JUSTICE'S opinion
demonstrates. Ante, at 71-72.
III
My second disagreement is with the Court's holding that
the Government acted unconstitutionally in seizing this real

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)

Opinion of O'CoNNoR, J.

property for forfeiture without giving Good prior notice and
an opportunity to be heard. I agree that the due process
inquiry outlined in Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U. S. 319, 335
(1976)-which requires a consideration of the private interest affected, the risk of erroneous deprivation and the value
of additional safeguards, and the Government's interestprovides an appropriate analytical framework for evaluating
whether a governmental practice violates the Due Process
Clause notwithstanding its historical pedigree. Cf. Medina
v. California,505 U. S. 437, 453 (1992) (O'CONNOR, J., concurring in judgment). But this case is an as applied challenge
to the seizure of Good's property; on these facts, I cannot
conclude that there was a constitutional violation.
The private interest at issue here-the owner's right to
control his property-is significant. Cf. Connecticut v.
Doehr, 501 U. S. 1, 11 (1991) ("[T]he property interests that
attachment affects are significant"). Yet the preforfeiture
intrusion in this case was minimal. Good was not living on
the property at the time, and there is no indication that his
possessory interests were in any way infringed. Moreover,
Good's tenants were allowed to remain on the property.
The property interest of which Good was deprived was the
value of the rent during the period between seizure and the
entry of the judgment of forfeiture-a monetary interest
identical to that of the property owner in United States v.
$8,850, 461 U. S. 555 (1983), in which we stated that preseizure notice and hearing were not required.
The Court emphasizes that people have a strong interest
in their homes. Ante, at 53-55, 61. But that observation
confuses the Fourth and the Fifth Amendments. The "sanctity of the home" recognized by this Court's cases, e. g., Payton v. New York, 445 U. S. 573, 601 (1980), is founded on a
concern with governmental intrusioninto the owner's possessory or privacy interests-the domain of the Fourth Amendment. Where, as here, the Government obtains a warrant
supported by probable cause, that concern is allayed. The

78

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY
Opinion of O'CONNOR, J.

Fifth Amendment, on the other hand, is concerned with deprivations of property interests; for due process analysis, it
should not matter whether the property to be seized is real or
personal, home or not. The relevant inquiry is into the governmental interference with the owner's interest in whatever property is at issue, an intrusion that is minimal here.
Moreover, it is difficult to see what advantage a preseizure
adversary hearing would have had in this case. There was
already an ex pane hearing before a magistrate to determine
whether there was probable cause to believe that Good's
property had been used in connection with a drug trafficking
offense. That hearing ensured that the probable validity of
the claim had been established. Cf. Sniadach v. Family Finance Corp. of Bay View, 395 U. S. 337, 343 (1969) (Harlan,
J., concurring). The Court's concern with innocent owners
(see ante, at 55-56) is completely misplaced here, where the
warrant affidavit indicated that the property owner had already been convicted of a drug offense involving the property. See App. 29-31.
At any hearing-adversary or not-the Government need
only show probable cause that the property has been used to
facilitate a drug offense in order to seize it; it will be unlikely
that giving the property owner an opportunity to respond
will affect the probable-cause determination. Cf. Gerstein
v. Pugh,420 U. S. 103, 121-122 (1975). And we have already
held that property owners have a due process right to a
prompt postseizure hearing, which is sufficient to protect
the owner's interests. See $8,850, supra, at 564-565; Von
Neumann, 474 U. S., at 249.
The Government's interest in the property is substantial.
Good's use of the property to commit a drug offense conveyed all right and title to the United States, although a
judicial decree of forfeiture was necessary to perfect the
Government's interest. See United States v. Parcel of
Rumson, N. J., Land, 507 U. S. 111, 125-127 (1993) (plurality
opinion); cf. Doehr, supra, at 16 (noting that the plaintiff

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)
Opinion of O'CONNOR, J.

"had no existing interest in Doehr's real estate when he
sought the attachment"). Seizure allowed the Government
to protect its inchoate interest in the property itself. Cf.
Mitchell v. W T Grant Co., 416 U. S. 600, 608-609 (1974).
Seizure also permitted the Government "to assert in rem
jurisdiction over the property in order to conduct forfeiture
proceedings, thereby fostering the public interest in preventing continued illicit use of the property and in enforcing
criminal sanctions." Calero-Toledo, 416 U. S., at 679 (footnote omitted); see also Fuentes, 407 U. S., at 91, n. 23, citing
Ownbey v. Morgan, 256 U. S. 94 (1921). In another case in
which the forfeited property was land and buildings, this
Court stated:
"Judicial proceedings in rem, to enforce a forfeiture,
cannot in general be properly instituted until the property inculpated is previously seized by the executive authority, as it is the preliminary seizure of the property
that brings the same within the reach of such legal process." Dobbins's Distillery, 96 U. S., at 396, citing The
Brig Ann, 9 Cranch 289 (1815).
The Government in Dobbins's Distillery proceeded almost
exactly as it did here: The United States Attorney swore out
an affidavit alleging that the premises were being used as an
illegal distillery, and thus were subject to forfeiture; a federal judge issued a seizure warrant; a deputy United States
marshal seized the property by posting notices thereon admonishing anyone with an interest in it to appear before the
court on a stated date; and the court, after a hearing at
which Dobbins claimed his interest, ordered the property
forfeited to the United States. See Record in Dobbins's
Distillery v. United States, No. 145, 0. T. 1877, pp. 2-8, 3739, 46-48. The Court noted that "[d]ue executive seizure
was made in this case of the distillery and of the real and
personal property used in connection with the same." 96
U. S., at 396.

80

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY
Opinion of THOMAS, J.

The Court objects that the rule has its origins in admiralty
cases, and has no applicability when the object of the forfeiture is real property. But Congress has specifically made the
customs laws applicable to drug forfeitures, regardless of
whether the Government seeks to forfeit real or personal
property. 21 U. S. C. §881(d); cf. Tyler v. Defrees, 11 Wall.
331, 346 (1871) ("Unquestionably, it was within the power of
Congress to provide a full code of procedure for these cases
[involving the forfeiture of real property belonging to rebels], but it chose to [adopt], as a general rule, a wellestablished system of administering the law of capture").
Indeed, just last Term, we recognized in a case involving the
seizure and forfeiture of real property that "it long has been
understood that a valid seizure of the res is a prerequisite
to the initiation of an in rem civil forfeiture proceeding."
Republic Nat. Bank of Miami v. United States, 506 U. S. 80,
84 (1992).
Finally, the burden on the Government of the Court's decision will be substantial. The practical effect of requiring an
adversary hearing before seizure will be that the Government will conduct the full forfeiture hearing on the merits
before it can claim its interest in the property. In the meantime, the Government can protect the important federal interests at stake only through the vagaries of state laws.
And while under the current system only a few property
owners contest the forfeiture, the Court's opinion creates an
incentive and an opportunity to do so, thus increasing the
workload of federal prosecutors and courts.
For all these reasons, I would reverse the judgment of the
Court of Appeals. I therefore respectfully dissent from
Part II of the opinion of the Court.
JUSTICE THOMAS, concurring in part and dissenting in
part.
Two fundamental considerations seem to motivate the
Court's due process ruling: first, a desire to protect the

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)

Opinion of THOMAS, J.

rights incident to the ownership of real property, especially
residences, and second, a more implicitly expressed distrust
of the Government's aggressive use of broad civil forfeiture
statutes. Although I concur with both of these sentiments,
I cannot agree that Good was deprived of due process of law
under the facts of this case. Therefore, while I join Parts I
and III of the Court's opinion, I dissent from Part II.
Like the majority, I believe that "[i]ndividual freedom
finds tangible expression in property rights." Ante, at 61.
In my view, as the Court has increasingly emphasized the
creation and delineation of entitlements in recent years, it
has not always placed sufficient stress upon the protection
of individuals' traditional rights in real property. Although
I disagree with the outcome reached by the Court, I
am sympathetic to its focus on the protection of property
rights-rights that are central to our heritage. Cf. Payton
v. New York, 445 U.S. 573, 601 (1980) ("[R]espect for
the sanctity of the home.., has been embedded in our traditions since the origins of the Republic"); Entick v. Carrington, 19 How. St. Tr. 1029, 1066 (C. P. 1765) ("The great end,
for which men entered into society, was to secure their
property").
And like the majority, I am disturbed by the breadth of
new civil forfeiture statutes such as 21 U. S. C. §881(a)(7),
which subjects to forfeiture all real property that is used, or
intended to be used, in the commission, or even the facilitation, of a federal drug offense.1 As JUSTICE O'CONNOR
IOther courts have suggested that Government agents, and the statutes

under which they operate, have gone too far in the civil forfeiture context.
See, e. g., United States v. All Assets of Statewide Auto Parts,Inc., 971
F. 2d 896, 905 (CA2 1992) ("We continue to be enormously troubled by the
government's increasing and virtually unchecked use of the civil forfeiture

statutes and the disregard for due process that is buried in those statutes"); United States v. One Parcel of Property,964 F. 2d 814, 818 (CA8
1992) ("[TMe are troubled by the government's view that any property,

82

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL

GOOD REAL PROPERTY
. Opinion of THOMAS, J.

points out, ante, at 74-76, since the Civil War we have upheld
statutes allowing for the civil forfeiture of real property. A
strong argument can be made, however, that § 881(a)(7) is so
broad that it differs not only in degree, but in kind, from
its historical antecedents. See, e. g., Brief for Respondents
19-21. Indeed, it is unclear whether the central theory behind in rem forfeiture, the fiction "that the thing is primarily
considered the offender," J. W. Goldsmith, Jr.-Grant Co. v.
United States, 254 U. S. 505, 511 (1921), can fully justify the
immense scope of § 881(a)(7). Under this provision, "large
tracts of land [and any improvements thereon] which have
no connection with crime other than being the location where
a drug transaction occurred," Brief for Respondents 20, are
subject to forfeiture. It is difficult to see how such real
property is necessarily in any sense "guilty" of an offense,
as could reasonably be argued of, for example, the distillery
in Dobbins's Distillery v. United States, 96 U. S. 395 (1878),
or the pirate vessel in Harmony v. United States, 2 How. 210
(1844). Given that current practice under § 881(a)(7) appears to be far removed from the legal fiction upon which
the civil forfeiture doctrine is based, it may be necessary-in
an appropriate case-to reevaluate our generally deferential
approach to legislative judgments in this area of civil
forfeiture.2
In my view, however, Good's due process claim does not
present that "appropriate" case. In its haste to serve laudable goals, the majority disregards our case law and ignores
whether it be a hobo's hovel or the Empire State Building, can be seized
by the government because the owner, regardless of his or her past criminal record, engages in a single drug transaction"), rev'd sub nom. Austin
v. United States, 509 U. S. 602 (1993).
2Such a case may arise in the excessive fines context. See Austin v.
United States, 509 U. S., at 628 (SCALIA, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (suggesting that "[t]he relevant inquiry for an excessive
forfeiture under [21 U. S. C.] § 881 is the relationship of the property to
the offense: Was it close enough to render the property, under traditional
standards, 'guilty' and hence forfeitable?").

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)

Opinion of THOMAS, J.

the critical facts of the case before it. As the opinions of
ante, at 69-72, and JUSTICE O'CONNOR,
ante, at 74-76, persuasively demonstrate, the Court's opinion
is predicated in large part upon misreadings of important
civil forfeiture precedents, especially Calero-Toledo v. Pearson Yacht Leasing Co., 416 U. S. 663 (1974).3 I will not repeat the critiques found in the other dissents, but will add
that it is twice puzzling for the majority to explain cases
such as Springer v. United States, 102 U. S. 586 (1881), and
Dobbins's Distillery, supra, as depending on the Federal
Government's urgent need for revenue in the 19th century.
First, it is somewhat odd that the Court suggests that the
Government's financial concerns might justifiably control the
due process analysis, see ante, at 59-60, and second, it is difficult to believe that the prompt collection of funds was more
essential to the Government a century ago than it is today.
I agree with the other dissenters that a fair application of
the relevant precedents to this case would indicate that no
due process violation occurred. But my concerns regarding
the legitimacy of the current scope of the Government's real
property forfeiture operations lead me to consider these
cases as only helpful to the analysis, not dispositive. What
convinces me that Good's due process rights were not violated are the facts of this case-facts that are disregarded by
the Court in its well-intentioned effort to protect "innocent
owners" from mistaken Government seizures. Ante, at 55.
The Court forgets that "this case is an as applied challenge
to the seizure of Good's property." Ante, at 77 (O'CONNOR,
J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). In holding
that the Government generally may not seize real property
prior to a final judgment of forfeiture, see ante, at 59, 62, the
THE CHIEF JUSTICE,

8

With scant support, the Court also dispenses with the ancient jurisdictional rule that "a valid seizure of the res is a prerequisite to the initiation
of an in rem civil forfeiture proceeding," Republic Nat. Bank of Miami v.
United States, 506 U. S. 80, 84 (1992), at least in the case of real property.
See ante, at 57-58.

84

UNITED STATES v. JAMES DANIEL
GOOD REAL PROPERTY
Opinion of THOMAS, J.

Court effectively declares that many of the customs laws are
facially unconstitutional as they apply under 21 U. S. C.
§881(d) to forfeiture actions brought pursuant to § 881(a)(7).
See, e. g., 19 U. S. C. §§ 1602, 1605 (authorizing seizure prior
to adversary proceedings). We should avoid reaching beyond the question presented in order to fashion a broad constitutional rule when doing so is unnecessary for resolution
of the case before us. Cf. Ashwander v. TVA, 297 U. S. 288,
347 (1936) (Brandeis, J., concurring). The Court's overreaching is particularly unfortunate in this case because
the Court's solicitude is so clearly misplaced: Good is not an
"innocent owner"; he is a convicted drug offender.
Like JUSTICE O'CONNOR, I cannot agree with the Court
that "under the circumstances of this case-where the property owner was previously convicted of a drug offense involving the property, the Government obtained a warrant
before seizing it, and the residents were not dispossessedthere was a due process violation simply because Good did
not receive preseizure notice and an opportunity to be
heard." Ante, at 73-74 (O'CONNOR, J., concurring in part
and dissenting in part). Wherever the due process line
properly should be drawn, in circumstances such as these, a
preseizure hearing is not required as a matter of constitutional law. Moreover, such a hearing would be unhelpful to
the property owner. As a practical matter, it is difficult to
see what purpose it would serve. Notice, of course, is provided by the conviction itself. In my view, seizure of the
property without more formalized notice and an opportunity
to be heard is simply one of the many unpleasant collateral
consequences that follows from conviction of a serious drug
offense. Cf. Price v. Johnston, 334 U. S. 266, 285 (1948)
("Lawful incarceration brings about the necessary withdrawal or limitation of many privileges and rights").
It might be argued that this fact-specific inquiry is too
narrow. Narrow, too, however, was the first question pre-

Cite as: 510 U. S. 43 (1993)
Opinion of THOMAS, J.

sented to us for review. 4 Moreover, when, as here, ambitious modern statutes and prosecutorial practices have all
but detached themselves from the ancient notion of civil forfeiture, I prefer to go slowly. While I sympathize with the
impulses motivating the Court's decision, I disagree with the
Court's due process analysis. Accordingly, I respectfully
dissent.

4"Whether the seizure of the respondent real property for forfeiture,

pursuant to a warrant issued by a magistrate judge based on a finding of
probable cause, violated the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment
because the owner (who did not reside on the premises) was not given

notice and an opportunity for a hearing prior to the seizure."
Cert. I.

Pet. for

