OCTOBER TERM, 1993
Syllabus

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
ET AL. v. FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS
AUTHORITY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT
No. 92-1223.

Argued November 8, 1993-Decided February 23, 1994

Two local unions filed unfair labor practice charges with respondent Federal Labor Relations Authority after petitioner federal agencies refused
to provide. them with the home addresses of agency employees in the
bargaining units represented by the unions. The Authority concluded
that the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute (Labor
Statute) required the agencies to divulge the addresses and rejected
petitioners' argument that such disclosure was prohibited by the Privacy Act of 1974. The Court of Appeals granted enforcement of the
Authority's disclosure orders. It agreed that the Privacy Act did not
bar disclosure because disclosure would be required under the Freedom
of Information Act (FOIA). In determining that FOIA Exemption 6which exempts from disclosure personnel files "the disclosure of which
would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy"did not apply, the court balanced the public interest in effective collective bargaining embodied in the Labor Statute against the employees'
interest in keeping their home addresses private. It thereby rejected
the view that, under Department of Justice v. Reporters Comm. for
Freedom of Press, 489 U. S. 749, the only public interest .to be weighed
in the analysis is the extent to which FOIA's central purpose of opening
agency action to public scrutiny would be served by disclosure.
Held: The Privacy Act forbids the disclosure of employee addresses to
collective-bargaining representatives pursuant to requests made under
the Labor Statute. Pp. 492-504.
(a) Department of Justice v. Reporters Comm. for Freedom of Press,
supra,reaffirms several basic principles that have informed the Court's
interpretation of FOIA: (1) in evaluating whether a request for information lies within the scope of an exemption that bars disclosure when it
would amount to an unwarranted invasion of privacy, a court must balance the public interest in disclosure against the interest Congress intended the exemption to protect; (2) the only relevant public interest to
be weighed in this balance is the extent to which disclosure would serve
FOIA's core purpose of contributing significantly to public understanding of the Government's operations or activities; and (3) whether an

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE v. FLRA

Syllabus
invasion of privacy is warranted cannot turn on the purposes for which
the information request is made. Pp. 492-496.
(b) These principles are easily applied to this case. The relevant
public interest supporting disclosure is negligible, at best. Disclosure
of the addresses would not appreciably further the citizens' right to be
informed about what their Government is up to and, indeed, would reveal little or nothing about the employing agencies or their activities.
Respondents' argument that, because the unions' requests were made
under the Labor Statute rather than directly under FOIA, the Labor
Statute's explicit policy considerations should be imported into the
FOIA balancing analysis, is rejected. In this case, the Privacy Act bars
disclosure unless it would be required under FOIA. The Labor Statute's terms do not amend FOIA's disclosure requirements or grant information requesters under the Labor Statute special status for purposes
of FOIA. Therefore, because all FOIA requesters have an equal and
equally qualified right to information, the fact that respondents are
seeking to vindicate the policies behind the Labor Statute is irrelevant
to the FOIA analysis. The negligible FOIA-related public interest in
disclosure is substantially outweighed by the employees' privacy interest in nondisclosure. For the most part, the unions seek to obtain nonunion employees' addresses. Whatever the reason that these employees have chosen not to become union members or to provide the unions
with their addresses, it is clear that they have some nontrivial privacy
interest in nondisclosure, and in avoiding the influx of union-related
mail, and, perhaps, union-related telephone calls or visits, that would
follow disclosure. Because the privacy interest outweighs the relevant
public interest, FOIA Exemption 6 applies. FOIA thus does not require petitioners to disclose the addresses, and the Privacy Act prohibits
their release. Pp. 497-502.
(c) Rather than thwart the collective-bargaining policies embodied in
the Labor Statute, the Court does no more than give effect to the clear
words of the provisions construed, including the Labor Statute. Not
presented, and therefore not addressed, is respondents' concern that
this ruling will allow agencies to refuse to provide unions with other
employee records that they need in order to perform their duties as
exclusive bargaining representatives. Finally, to the extent that the
terms of the Privacy Act leave public sector unions in a position different from that of their private sector counterparts, which assertedly are
entitled to receive employee home addresses under the National Labor
Relations Act, Congress may correct the disparity. Pp. 502-504.
975 F. 2d 1105, reversed.

Cite as: 510 U. S. 487 (1994)

Opinion of the Court
THOMAS, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J., and BLACKMUN, STEVENS, O'CONNOR, SCALIA, KENNEDY, and
SOUTER, JJ., joined. SOUTER, J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 504.

GINSBURG, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, post, p. 504.

Christopher J. Wright argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the briefs were Solicitor General Days, Acting
Solicitor General Bryson, Acting Assistant Attorney General Schiffer, Deputy Solicitor General Wallace, Leonard
Schaitman, and Sandra Wien Simon.
David Al. Smith argued the cause for respondents. With
him on the brief for respondent Federal Labor Relations
Authority were William R. Tobey, William E. Persina,
and Pamela P. Johnson. Mark D. Roth, Charles A. Hobbie,
Stuart A. Kirsch, Walter Kamiat, and Laurence Gold filed
a brief for respondent American Federation of Government
Employees, AFL-CIO.*
JUSTICE THOMAS delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case requires us to consider whether disclosure of the
home addresses of federal civil service employees by their
employing agency pursuant to a request made by the employees' collective-bargaining representative under the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, 5 U. S. C.
§§ 7101-7135 (1988 ed. and Supp. IV), would constitute a
"clearly unwarranted invasion" of the employees' personal
privacy within the meaning of the Freedom. of Information
Act, 5 U. S. C. § 552. Concluding that it would, we reverse
the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
*Rossie D. Alston, Jr., filed a brief for the National Right to Work Legal
Defense Foundation, Inc., as amicus curiae urging reversal.
Gregory O'Duden and Elaine Kaplan filed a brief for the National
Treasury Employees Union as amicus curiae urging affirmance.

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE v. FLRA
Opinion of the Court

I
The controversy underlying this case arose when two local
unions ' requested the petitioner federal agencies 2 to provide
them with the names and home addresses of the agency employees in the bargaining units represented by the unions.
The agencies supplied the unions with the employees' names
and work stations, but refused to release home addresses.
In response, the unions filed unfair labor practice charges
with respondent Federal Labor Relations Authority (Authority), in which they contended that the Federal Service
Labor-Management Relations Statute (Labor Statute), 5
U. S. C. §§ 7101-7135 (1988 ed. and Supp. IV), required the
agencies to divulge the addresses. The Labor Statute generally provides that agencies must, "to the extent not prohibited by law," furnish unions with data that are necessary for
collective-bargaining purposes. § 7114(b)(4). The agencies
argued that disclosure of the home addresses was prohibited
by the Privacy Act of 1974 (Privacy Act), 5 U. S. C. § 552a
(1988 ed. and Supp. IV). Relying on its earlier decision in
Department -of Navy, Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, Portsmouth, N H., 37 F. L. R. A. 515 (1990) (Portsmouth),application for enforcement denied and cross-petition for review
granted sub nom. FLRA v. Department of Navy, Naval
Communications Unit Cutler, 941 F. 2d 49 (CA1 1991), the
Authority rejected that argument and ordered the agencies
to divulge the addresses. Department of Defense, Army
ILocal 1657 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union represents a bargaining unit composed of employees of the Navy CBC
Exchange in Gulfport, Mississippi. Local 1345 of respondent American
Federation of Government Employees, AFL-CIO, represents a worldwide bargaining unit composed of employees of the Army and Air Force
Exchange, which is headquartered in Dallas, Texas.
2 Petitioners are the U. S. Department of Defense, U. S. Department of
the Navy, Navy CBC Exchange, Construction Battalion Center, Gulfport,
Mississippi, and the U. S. Department of Defense, Army and Air Force
Exchange, Dallas, Texas.

Cite as: 510 U. S. 487 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

and Air Force Exchange Serv., Dallas, Tex., 37 F. L. R. A.
930 (1990); Department of Navy, 37 F. L. R. A. 652 (1990).
A divided panel of the United States Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit granted enforcement of the Authority's
orders. 975 F. 2d 1105 (1992). The panel majority agreed
with the Authority that the unions' requests for home addresses fell within a statutory exception to the Privacy Act.
That Act does not bar disclosure of personal information
if disclosure would be "required under section 552 of this
title [the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)]." 5 U. S. C.
§ 552a(b)(2). The court below observed that FOIA, with
certain enumerated exceptions, generally mandates full disclosure of information held by agencies. In the view of the
Court of Appeals, only one of the enumerated exceptionsthe provision exempting from FOIA's coverage personnel
files "the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy," 5 U. S. C. § 552(b)(6)
(Exemption 6)-potentially applied to this case. 975 F. 2d,
at 1109.
In determining whether Exemption 6 applied, the Fifth
Circuit balanced the public interest in effective collective
bargaining embodied in the Labor Statute against the interest of employees in keeping their home addresses private.
The court recognized that, in light of our decision in Department of Justice v. Reporters Comm. for Freedom of Press,
489 U. S. 749 (1989), other Courts of Appeals had concluded
that the only public interest to be weighed in the Exemption
6 balancing analysis is the extent to which FOIA's central
purpose of opening agency action to public scrutiny would
be served by disclosure.3 Rejecting that view, however, the
"See, e. g., Department of Navy, Navy Exchange v. FLRA, 975 F. 2d
348 (CA7 1992); FLRA v. Department of Veterans Affairs, 958 F. 2d 503
(CA2 1992); FLRA v. Department of Navy, Naval Communications Unit
Cutler,941 F. 2d 49 (CA1 1991); FLRA v. Departmentof Treasury,Financial Management Serv., 884 F. 2d 1446 (CADC 1989), cert. denied, 493
U. S. 1055 (1990).

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE v. FLRA
Opinion of the Court

panel majority reasoned that Reporters Committee "has absolutely nothing to say about ... the situation that arises
when disclosure is initially required by some statute other
than the FOIA, and the FOIA is employed only secondarily."
975 F. 2d, at 1113. In such cases, the court ruled that "it is
proper for the federal court to consider the public interests
embodied in the statute which generates the disclosure request." Id., at 1115.
Applying this approach, the court concluded that, because
the weighty interest in public sector collective bargaining
identified by Congress in the Labor Statute would be advanced by the release of the home addresses, disclosure
"would not constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of privacy." Id., at 1116. In the panel majority's view, because
Exemption 6 would not apply, FOIA would require disclosure of the addresses; in turn, therefore, the Privacy Act
did not forbid the agencies to divulge the addresses, and
the Authority's orders were binding. Ibid. The dissenting judge argued that Reporters Committee controlled the
case and barred the agencies from disclosing their employees' addresses to the unions. Id., at 1116-1119 (Garza, J.,
dissenting).
We granted certiorari, 507 U. S. 1003 (1993), to resolve a
conflict among the Courts of Appeals concerning whether the
Privacy Act forbids the disclosure of employee addresses to
collective-bargaining representatives pursuant to information requests made under the Labor Statute.
II
Like the Court of Appeals, we begin our analysis with
the terms of the Labor Statute, which governs labormanagement relations in the federal civil service. Consistent with the congressional finding that "labor organizations
and collective bargaining in the civil service are in the public
interest," 5 U.S. C. § 7101(a), the Labor Statute requires an
agency to accord exclusive recognition to a labor union that

Cite as: 510 U. S. 487 (1994)

Opinion of the Court
is elected by employees to serve as the representative of
a bargaining unit. §7111(a). An exclusive representative
must represent fairly all employees in the unit, regardless
of whether they choose to become union members.
§ 7114(a)(1). The Labor Statute also imposes a duty on the
agency and the exclusive representative to negotiate in good
faith for the purpose of arriving at a collective-bargaining
agreement. § 7114(a)(4).
To fulfill its good-faith bargaining obligation, an agency
must, inter alia,"furnish to the exclusive representative involved, or its authorized representative, upon request and,
to the extent not prohibited by law, data ... (B) which is
reasonably available and necessary for full and proper discussion, understanding, and negotiation of subjects within
the scope of collective bargaining." § 7114(b)(4)(B) (emphasis added). The Authority has determined that the home
addresses of bargaining unit employees constitute information that is "necessary" to the collective-bargaining process
because through them, unions may communicate with employees more effectively than would otherwise be possible.
See Portsmouth,37 F. L. R. A., at 532 ("In the home environment, the employee has the leisure and the privacy to give
the full and thoughtful attention to the.union's message that
the workplace generally does not permit"); Farmers Home
Admin. Finance Office, 23 F. L. R. A. 788, 796-797 (1986).
This determination, which has been upheld by several
Courts of Appeals, 4 is not before us. Nor is there any dispute that the addresses are "reasonably available." Therefore, unless disclosure is "prohibited by law," agencies such
as petitioners must release home addresses to exclusive representatives upon request.
Petitioners contend that the Privacy Act prohibits disclosure. This statute provides in part:
4 See, e. g., FLRA v. Department of Defense, Army and Air Force Exchange Serv., 984 F. 2d 370, 373 (CA10 1993); Department of Veterans
Affairs, supra, at 507-508.

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE v. FLRA
Opinion of the Court

"No agency shall disclose any record which is contained
in a system of records by any means of communication
to any person, or to another agency, except pursuant to
a written request by, or with the prior written consent
of, the individual to whom the record pertains, unless
disclosure of the record would be... (2) required under
section 552 of this title [FOIA]." 5 U. S. C. § 552a(b)(2)
(1988 ed. and Supp. IV).
The employee addresses sought by the unions are "records"
covered by the broad terms of the Privacy Act. Therefore,
unless FOIA would require release of the addresses, their
disclosure is "prohibited by law," and the agencies may not
reveal them to the unions. 5
We turn, then, to FOIA. As we have recognized previously, FOIA reflects "a general philosophy of full agency
disclosure unless information is exempted under clearly delineated statutory language." Department of Air Force v.
Rose, 425 U. S. 352, 360-361 (1976) (internal quotation marks
omitted). See also EPA v. Mink, 410 U. S. 73, 79-80 (1973).
Thus, while "disclosure, not secrecy, is the dominant objective of [FOIA]," there are a number of exemptions from the
statute's broad reach. Rose, supra, at 361. The exemption
potentially applicable to employee addresses is Exemption 6,
which provides that FOIA's disclosure requirements do not
SThe written-consent provision of the Privacy Act is not implicated in
this case. The unions already have access to the addresses of their members and to those of nonmembers who have divulged this information to
them. It is not disputed that the unions are able to contact bargaining
unit employees at work and ask them for their home addresses. In practical effect, the unions seek only those addresses that they do not currently
possess: the addresses of nonunion employees who have not revealed this
information to their exclusive representative.
We also note that we are not asked in this case to consider the potential
applicability of any other Privacy Act exceptions, such as the "routine use"
exception. See 5 U. S. C. §552a(b)(3). Respondents rely solely on the
argument that the unions' requests for home addresses fall within the
Privacy Act's FOIA exception.

Cite as: 510 U. S. 487 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

apply to "personnel and medical files and similar files the
disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted
invasion of personal privacy." 5 U. S. C. §552(b)(6).
Thus, although this case requires us to follow a somewhat
convoluted path of statutory cross-references, its proper resolution depends upon a discrete inquiry: whether disclosure
of the home addresses "would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of [the] personal privacy" of bargaining unit
employees within the meaning of FOIA. For guidance in
answering this question, we need look no further than to our
decision in Department of Justice v. Reporters Comm. for
Freedom of Press, 489 U. S. 749 (1989).
Reporters Committee involved FOIA requests addressed
to the Federal Bureau of Investigation that sought the "rap
sheets" of several individuals. In the process of deciding
that the FBI was prohibited from disclosing the contents of
the rap sheets, we reaffirmed several basic principles that
have informed our interpretation of FOIA. First, in evaluating whether a request for information lies within the scope
of a FOIA exemption, such as Exemption 6, that bars disclosure when it would amount to an invasion of privacy that is
to some degree "unwarranted," "a court must balance the
public interest in disclosure against the interest Congress
intended the [e]xemption to protect." Id., at 776. See also
Rose, supra, at 372.
Second, the only relevant "public interest in disclosure"
to be weighed in this balance is the extent to which disclosure would serve the "core purpose of the FOIA," which is
"contribut[ing] significantly to public understanding of the
operations or activities of the government." Reporters
Comm., supra, at 775 (internal quotation marks omitted).
We elaborated on this point at some length:
"[FOIA's] basic policy of 'full agency disclosure unless
information is exempted under clearly delineated statutory language' indeed focuses on the citizens' right to be
informed about what their government is up to. Official

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE v. FLRA
Opinion of the Court

information that sheds light on an agency's performance
of its statutory duties falls squarely within that statutory purpose. That purpose, however, is not fostered
by disclosure of information about private citizens that
is accumulated in various governmental files but that
reveals little or nothing about an agency's own conduct."
489 U. S., at 773 (quoting Rose, supra,at 360-361) (other
internal quotation marks and citations omitted).
See also Rose, supra, at 372 (Exemption 6 cases "require
a balancing of the individual's right of privacy against the
preservation of the basic purpose of [FOIA] to open agency
action to the light of public scrutiny") (internal quotation
marks omitted).
Third, "whether an invasion of privacy is warrantedcannot turn on the purposes for which the request for information is made." Reporters Comm., 489 U. S., at 771. Because "Congress 'clearly intended' the FOIA 'to give any
member of the public as much right to disclosure as one with
a special interest [in a particular document],"' ibid. (quoting
NLRB v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., 421 U. S. 132, 149 (1975)),
except in certain cases involving claims of privilege, "the
identity of the requesting party has no bearing on the merits
of his or her FOIA request," 489 U. S., at 771.6
6

Our decision in Reporters Committee turned on the applicability of
FOIA Exemption 7(C) to the requests for "rap sheets." In pertinent part,
Exemption 7(C) provides that "[FOIA] does not apply to matters that are
...(7) records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes, but
only to the extent that the production of such law enforcement records or
information... (C) could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy." 5 U. S. C. §552(b)(7)(C). When we
applied the FOIA principles discussed in the text, we concluded that "[t]he
privacy interest in maintaining the practical obscurity of rap-sheet information will always be high," and that "the FOIA-based public interest in
disclosure is at its nadir" when third parties seek law enforcement records
concerning private citizens, given that those records would shed no light
on the activities of government agencies or officials. Reporters Comm.,
489 U. S., at 780. Because the privacy interest outweighed the relevant

Cite as: 510 U. S. 487 (1994)

Opinion of the Court

III

The principles that we followed in Reporters Committee
can be applied easily to this case. We must weigh the privacy interest of bargaining unit employees in nondisclosure
of their addresses against the only relevant public interest
in the FOIA balancing analysis-the extent to which disclosure of the information sought would "she[d] light on an
agency's performance of its statutory duties" or otherwise
let citizens know "what their government is up to." Reporters Comm., supra, at 773 (internal quotation marks omitted;
emphasis deleted).
The relevant public interest supporting disclosure in this
case is negligible, at best. Disclosure of the addresses
might allow the unions to communicate more effectively with
employees, but it would not appreciably further "the citizens'
right to be informed about what their government is up to."
489 U. S., at 773 (internal quotation marks omitted). Indeed, such disclosure would reveal little or nothing about
the employing agencies or their activities. Even the Fifth
public interest, we held as a categorical matter that such records are excepted from FOIA's broad disclosure requirements by Exemption 7(C).
Ibid.
Exemption 7(C) is more protective of privacy than Exemption 6: The
former provision applies to any disclosure that "could reasonably be expected to constitute" an invasion of privacy that is "unwarranted," while
the latter bars any disclosure that "would constitute" an invasion of privacy that is "clearly unwarranted." Contrary to the view of the court
below, see 975 F. 2d, at 1113, however, the fact that Reporters Committee
dealt with a different FOIA exemption than the one we focus on today is
of little import. Exemptions 7(C) and 6 differ in the magnitude of the
public interest that is required to override the respective privacy interests
protected by the exemptions. As we shall see in Part III, infra, however,
the dispositive issue here is the identificationof the relevant public interest to be weighed in the balance, not the magnitude of that interest. Reporters Committee provides the same guidance in making this identification in Exemption 7(C) and Exemption 6 cases. See, e. g., Department of
State v. Ray, 502 U. S. 164 (1991) (Exemption 6 case applying Reporters
Committee).

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE v. FLRA
Opinion of the Court

Circuit recognized that "[r]elease of the employees'.., addresses would not in any meaningful way open agency action
to the light of public scrutiny." 975 F. 2d, at 1113.
Apparently realizing that this conclusion follows ineluctably from an application of the FOIA tenets we embraced in
Reporters Committee, respondents argue that Reporters
Committee is largely inapposite here because it dealt with
an information request made directly under FOIA, whereas
the unions' requests for home addresses initially were made
under the Labor Statute, and implicated FOIA only incidentally through a chain of statutory cross-references. In such
a circumstance, contend respondents, to give full effect to
the three statutes involved and to allow unions to perform
their statutory representational duties, we should import the
policy considerations that are made explicit in the Labor
Statute into the FOIA Exemption 6 balancing analysis. If
we were to do so, respondents are confident we would conclude that the Labor Statute's policy favoring collective bargaining easily outweighs any privacy interest that employees
might have in nondisclosure.
We decline to accept respondents' ambitious invitation to
rewrite the statutes before us and to disregard the FOIA
principles reaffirmed in Reporters Committee. The Labor
Statute does not, as the Fifth Circuit suggested, merely
"borro[w] the FOIA's disclosure calculus for another purpose." 975 F. 2d, at 1115. Rather, it allows the disclosure
of information necessary for effective collective bargaining
only "to the extent not prohibited by law." 5 U.S. C.
§ 7114(b)(4). Disclosure of the home addresses is prohibited
by the Privacy Act unless an exception to that Act applies.
The terms of the Labor Statute in no way suggest that the
Privacy Act should be read in light of the purposes of the
Labor Statute. If there is an exception, therefore, it must
be found within the Privacy Act itself. Congress could have
enacted an exception to the Privacy Act's coverage for information "necessary" for collective-bargaining purposes, but it

Cite as: 510 U. S. 487 (1994)

Opinion of the Court

did not do so. In the absence of such a provision, respondents rely on the exception for information the disclosure of
which would be "required under [FOIA]." § 552a(b)(2). Nowhere, however, does the Labor Statute amend FOIA's disclosure requirements or grant information requesters under
the Labor Statute special status under FOIA. Therefore,
because all FOIA requesters have an equal, and equally
qualified, right to information, the fact that respondents are
seeking to vindicate the policies behind the Labor Statute is
irrelevant to the FOIA analysis. Cf. Reporters Comm., 489
U. S., at 771-772.
In her concurring opinion in FLRA v. Department of
Treasury, Financial Management Serv., 884 F. 2d 1446
(CADC 1989), cert. denied, 493 U. S. 1055 (1990), then-Judge
Ginsburg cogently explained why we must reject respondents' central argument:
"The broad cross-reference in 5 U. S. C. § 7114(b)(4)--'to
the extent not prohibited by law'-picks up the Privacy
Act unmodified; that Act, in turn, shelters personal records absent the consent of the person to whom the record pertains, unless disclosure would be required under
the [FOIA].
"Once placed wholly within the FOIA's domain, the
union requesting information relevant to collective bargaining stands in no better position than members of the
general public. True, unions have a special interest in
identifying and communicating with persons in the bar7In this regard, see Department of Veterans Affairs, 958 F. 2d, at 512
("Nowhere in the [Labor Statute] does its language indicate that the disclosure calculus required by FOIA should be modified. Nowhere do we
find a qualification that the policies of collective bargaining should be integrated into FOIA"); Department of 7reasury, 884 F. 2d, at 1453 ("Privacy
Act exception b(2) speaks only of FOIA. We do not believe we are entitled to engage in the sort of imaginative reconstruction that would be
necessary to introduce collective bargaining values into the [FOIA] balancing process").

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE v. FLRA
Opinion of the Court

gaining unit, an interest initially accommodated by [the
Labor Statute]. The bargaining process facilitation interest is ultimately unavailing, however, because it 'falls
outside the ambit of the public interest that the FOIA
was enacted to serve,' i. e., the interest in advancing
'public understanding of the operation or activities of
the government."' 884 F. 2d, at 1457 (quoting Reporters Comm., supra, at 775).
Against the virtually nonexistent FOIA-related public
interest in disclosure, we weigh the interest of bargaining
unit employees in nondisclosure of their home addresses.
Cf. Departmentof State v. Ray, 502 U. S. 164, 173-177 (1991);
Rose, 425 U.S., at 372. Because a very slight privacy
interest would suffice to outweigh the relevant public interest, we need not be exact in our quantification of the
privacy interest. It is enough for present purposes to observe that the employees' interest in nondisclosure is not
insubstantial.
It is true that home addresses often are publicly available
through sources such as telephone directories and voter registration lists, but "[i]n an organized society, there are few
facts that are not at one time or another divulged to another." Reporters Comm., supra, at 763. The privacy interest protected by Exemption 6 "encompass[es] the individual's control of information concerning his or her person."
489 U. S., at 763. An individual's interest in controlling the
dissemination of information regarding personal matters
does not dissolve simply because that information may be
available to the public in some form. Here, for the most
part, the unions seek to obtain the addresses of nonunion
employees who have decided not to reveal their addresses
to their exclusive representative. See n. 5, supra. Perhaps
some of these individuals have failed to join the union that
represents them due to lack of familiarity with the union or
its services. Others may be opposed to their union or to
unionism in general on practical or ideological grounds.

Cite as: 510 U. S. 487 (1994)

Opinion of the Court

Whatever the reason that these employees have chosen not
to become members of the union or to provide the union with
their addresses, however, it is clear that they have some nontrivial privacy interest in nondisclosure, and in avoiding the
influx of union-related mail, and, perhaps, union-related telephone calls or visits, that would follow disclosure.8
Many people simply do not want to be disturbed at home
by work-related matters. Employees can lessen the chance
of such unwanted contacts by not revealing their addresses
to their exclusive representative. Even if the direct union/
employee communication facilitated by the -disclosure of
home addresses were limited to mailings, this does not lessen
the interest that individuals have in preventing at least some
unsolicited, unwanted mail from reaching them at their
homes. We are reluctant to disparage the privacy of the
home, which is accorded special consideration in our Constitution, laws, and traditions. Cf. Rowan v. United States
Post Office Dept., 397 U. S. 728, 737 (1970); Olmstead v.
United States, 277 U. S. 438, 478 (1928) (Brandeis, J., dissenting). Moreover, when we consider that other parties, such
as commercial advertisers and solicitors, must have the same
access under FOIA as the unions to the employee address
lists sought in this case, see supra,at 496, 499, it is clear that
the individual privacy interest that would be protected by
nondisclosure is far from insignificant.
8 Even the Authority has recognized that "employees have some privacy
interest in their home addresses." Brief for Federal Respondent 41
(citing Department of Navy, Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, Portsmouth,

N H., 37 F. L. R. A. 515, 532 (1990)). The Courts of Appeals that have
considered the question have reached the same conclusion, although they
have differed in their characterization of the magnitude of the interest
implicated. See, e. g., FLRA v. Department of Defense, 977 F. 2d 545, 549
(CAll 1992) ("important" privacy interest); FLRA v. Department of
Navy, 966 F. 2d 747, 759 (CA3 1992) (en banc) ("minimal" interest); Department of Veterans Affairs, supra, at 510 ("general privacy interest" in preventing dissemination of home address):, Department of Treasury, supra,
at 1453 ("significant" interest).

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE v. FLRA
Opinion of the Court

Because the privacy interest of bargaining unit employees
in nondisclosure of their home addresses substantially outweighs the negligible FOIA-related public interest in disclosure, we conclude that disclosure would constitute a "clearly
unwarranted invasion of personal privacy." 5 U. S. C.
§ 552(b)(6). FOIA, thus, does not require the agencies to
divulge the addresses, and the Privacy Act, therefore, prohibits their release to the unions.
IV
Respondents argue that our decision will have a number
of untoward effects. First, they contend that without access
to home addresses, public sector unions will be unable to
communicate with, and represent effectively, all bargaining unit employees. Such a result, they believe, thwarts
the collective-bargaining policies explicitly embodied in the
Labor Statute. See, e. g., 5 U. S. C. §7101(a) (congressional
finding that "labor organizations and collective bargaining in
the civil service are in the public interest"). According to
respondents, it is illogical to believe that Congress intended
the Privacy Act and FOIA to be interpreted in a manner
that hinders the effectuation of the purposes motivating the
Labor Statute.
Respondents, however, place undue emphasis on what they
perceive to be the impulses of the Congress that enacted the
Labor Statute, and neglect to consider the language in that
statute that calls into play the limitations of the Privacy Act.
Speculation about the ultimate goals of the Labor Statute is
inappropriate here; the statute plainly states that an agency
need furnish an exclusive representative with information
that is necessary for collective-bargaining purposes only "to
the extent not prohibited by law." 5 U. S. C. § 7114(b)(4).
Disclosure of the addresses in this case is prohibited "by
law," the Privacy Act. By disallowing disclosure, we do no
more than give effect to the clear words of the provisions we

Cite as: 510 U. S. 487 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

construe, including the Labor Statute. Cf. Connecticut Nat.
Bank v. Germain, 503 U. S. 249, 253 (1992) ("We have stated
time and again that courts must presume that a legislature
says in a statute what it means and means in a statute what
it says there").
Second, respondents fear that our ruling will allow agencies, acting pursuant to the Privacy Act, to refuse to provide
unions with other employee records, such as disciplinary reports and performance appraisals, that the unions need in
order to perform their duties as exclusive bargaining representatives. This concern is not presented in this case, however, and we do not address it.
Finally, respondents contend that our decision creates an
unnecessary and unintended disparity between public and
private sector unions. While private sector unions assertedly are entitled to receive employee home address lists from
employers under the National Labor Relations Act, as interpreted by the National Labor Relations Board, 9 respondents
claim that federal sector unions now will be needlessly
barred from obtaining this information, despite the lack of
any indication that Congress intended such a result. See
Department of Treasury, 884 F. 2d, at 1457-1461 (R. Ginsburg, J., concurring). We do not question that, as a general
matter, private sector labor law may provide guidance in
parallel public sector matters. This fact has little relevance
here, however, for unlike private sector employees, federal
employees enjoy the protection of the Privacy Act, and that
statute prohibits the disclosure of the address lists sought in
this case. To the extent that this prohibition leaves public
sector unions in a position different from that of their private
sector counterparts, Congress may correct the disparity.
Cf. Sedima, S. P. R. L. v. Imrex Co., 473 U. S.479, 499 (1985).
9

See, e. g., NLRB v. Associated Gen. Contractorsof Cal., Inc., 633 F. 2d
766, 773 (CA9 1980), cert. denied, 452 U. S. 915 (1981); NLRB v. Pearl
Bookbinding Co., 517 F. 2d 1108, 1113 (CA1 1975).

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE v. FLRA
GINSBURG, J.,

concurring in judgment

V
For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the Court of
Appeals is reversed.
So ordered.
JUSTICE SOUTER,

concurring.

I join the Court's opinion with the understanding that
it does not ultimately resolve the relationship between
the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute
(Labor Statute) and all of the Privacy Act of 1974 exceptions
potentially available to respondents, and that any more general language in the opinion is limited, as the Court notes,
to the relationship between the Labor Statute and the Freedom of Information Act exception to the Privacy Act at issue
here. See ante, at 494, n. 5.
JUSTICE GINSBURG, concurring in the judgment.

Before this Court's decision in Department of Justice v.
Reporters Comm. for Freedom of Press, 489 U. S. 749 (1989),
every court to consider the issue presented in this case
reached a conclusion opposing the one the Court announces
today: The courts uniformly enforced, against Privacy Act
challenges, Federal Labor Relations Authority (Authority)
orders directing agencies to disclose the names and addresses of bargaining unit employees to the employees' exclusive bargaining representative.' In these judgments, the
Courts of Appeals deferred to the Authority's expert de-

l See Department of Navy v. FLRA, 840 F. 2d 1131 (CA3), cert. dism'd,
488 U. S. 881 (1988); Department of Air Force, Scott Air Force Base v.
FLRA, 838 F. 2d 229 (CA7), cert. dism'd, 488 U. S. 880 (1988); Department
of Agriculture v. FLRA, 836 F. 2d 1139 (CA8 1988), vacated and remanded,
488 U. S. 1025 (1989); Department of Health and Human Services v.
FLRA, 833 F. 2d 1129 (CA4 1987), cert. dism'd, 488 U. S. 880 (1988). See
also American Federationof Govt. Employees, Local 1760 v. FLRA, 786
F. 2d 554 (CA2 1986) (requiring FLRA to order disclosure).

Cite as: 510 U. S. 487 (1994)
GINSBURG, J.,

concurring in judgment

termination that disclosure was necessary to vindicate the
public interest in promoting federal-sector collective bargaining-the interest Congress identified when it enacted
the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute
2
(Labor Statute).
The Privacy Act interposed no bar to disclosure under the
Labor Statute, these courts reasoned, because the Privacy
Act allows disclosure when the Freedom of Information Act
(FOIA) so requires, see 5 U. S. C. §552a(b)(2), and the FOIA
balancing of public interest in disclosure against the asserted
privacy interest, see ante, at 495, tipped decisively in favor
of disclosure. The public interest the Courts of Appeals balanced was the promotion of collective bargaining; the privacy
interest, keeping employees' names and addresses from their
bargaining representative.
Reporters Committee, however, changed the FOIA calculus that underlies these prodisclosure decisions. In Reporters Committee, the Court adopted a restrictive definition of
the "public interest in disclosure," holding that interest to
be circumscribed by FOIA's "core purpose": the purpose of
"open[ing] agency action to the light of public scrutiny" and
advancing "public understanding of the operations or activities of the government." 489 U. S., at 774-776 (internal quotation marks and emphasis omitted). As the Court observes
today, disclosure of employees' home addresses to their bargaining representatives would not advance this purpose.
See ante, at 497. With Reporters Committee as its guide,
the Court traverses the "convoluted path of statutory crossreferences," ante, at 495, from the Labor Statute to the Pri2See 5 U. S. C. § 7101(a) ("labor organizations and collective bargaining
in the civil service are in the public interest"); § 7114(b)(4)(B) (agency must
disclose information "necessary for full and proper discussion, understanding, and negotiation of subjects within the scope of collective bargaining,"
unless disclosure is "prohibited by law").

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE v. FLRA
GINSBURG, J., concurring in judgment

vacy Act to FOA, and the Court's journey ends in a judgment that disclosure is impermissible.3
The Court convincingly demonstrates that Reporters
Committee, unmodified, requires this result. I came to the
same conclusion as a judge instructed by the Court's precedent. See FLRA v. Department of Treasury, Financial
Mgmt. Service, 884 F. 2d 1446, 1457 (CADC 1989) (concurring
opinion), cert. denied, 493 U. S. 1055 (1990), quoted ante, at
499-500. It seemed to me then and seems to me now, however, that Congress did not chart our journey's end. See
884 F. 2d, at 1457-1461.
As this Court has recognized, in enacting the Labor Statute "Congress unquestionably intended to strengthen the position of federal unions." Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms v. FLRA, 464 U. S.89, 107 (1983). It is surely
doubtful that, in the very statute bolstering federal-sector
unions, Congress aimed to deny those unions information
their private-sector counterparts routinely receive. See,
e. g., PrudentialIns. Co. of Am. v. NLRB, 412 F. 2d 77 (CA2),
cert. denied, 396 U. S.928 (1969); see also NLRB v. WymanGordon Co., 394 U. S.759 (1969) (upholding National Labor
Relations Board order requiring employer to disclose names
and addresses before election). It is similarly doubtful that
Congress intended a privacy interest, appraised by most
8

The Court does not reach the issue whether the "routine use" exception
to the Privacy Act, see 5 U. S. C. § 552a(b)(3), might justify disclosure.
See ante, at 494, n. 5. The "routine use" exception is not a secure one for
the unions, however, because it empowers agencies, in the first instance,
to determine which uses warrant the classification "routine," and because
courts ordinarily defer to agency assessments of this order. But cf.
United States Postal Service v. National Assn. of Letter Carriers,9 F. 3d
138, 143 (CADC 1993) (opinion of Silberman, J.) (suggesting that National
Labor Relations Act disclosure obligations might compel the Postal Service "to publish a routine use notice that would accommodate its duties
under that Act").

Cite as: 510 U. S. 487 (1994)
GINSBURG, J.,

concurring in judgment

courts as relatively modest,4 to trump the Legislature's
firmly declared interest in promoting federal-sector collective bargaining. I do not agree with the Court, see ante, at
498-499, that the Reporters Committee rule yielding these
anomalies is indubitably commanded by FOIA.5
The Reporters Committee "core purpose" limitation is not
found in FOIA's language. A FOIA requester need not
show in the first instance that disclosure would serve any
public purpose, let alone a "core purpose" of "open[ing]
agency action to the light of public scrutiny" or advancing
"public understanding of the operations or activities of the
government." Instead, "[a]n agency must disclose agency
records to any person . . . 'unless [the records] may be withheld pursuant to one of the nine enumerated exemptions
listed in § 552(b)."' Department of Justice v. Tax Analysts,
492 U. S. 136, 150-151 (1989), quoting Department of Justice
4Compare FLRA v. Department of Navy, Navy Ships Parts Control
Center, 966 F. 2d 747, 759 (CA3 1992) (en banc) ("minimal" privacy interest); FLRA v. Department of Navy, Navy Resale and Services Support
Office, 958 F. 2d 1490, 1496 (CA9 1992) ("minimal"); FLRA v. Department
of Veterans Affairs, 958 F. 2d 503, 511 (CA2 1992) ("more than de minimis"); FLRA v. Department of Navy, Naval Communications Unit Cutler,941 F. 2d 49, 56 (CA1 1991) ("modest"); Department of Air Force, Scott
Air Force Base v. FLRA, 838 F. 2d 229, 232 (CA7) ("minuscule"), cert.
dism'd, 488 U. S. 880 (1988); Department of Agriculture v. FLRA, 836 F. 2d
1139, 1143 (CA8 1988) ("modest"), vacated and remanded, 488 U. S. 1025
(1989); American Federation of Govt. Employees, Local 1760 v. FLRA,
786 F. 2d 554, 556 (CA2 1986) ("not particularly compelling"), with FLRA
v. Department of Defense, Department of Navy, Pensacola Navy Exchange, 977 F. 2d 545, 549 (CAll 1992) ("important").
61 do not question the result in Reporters Committee, shielding under
FOIA exemption 7(C), 5 U. S. C. § 552(b)(7)(C), scattered bits of information relevant to criminal matters compiled in FBI "rap sheets." See
FLRA v. Department of Treasury, Financial Mgmt. Service, 884 F. 2d
1446, 1460 (R. B. Ginsburg, J., concurring) ("privacy invasion threatened
by release [to the union] of the bare names and addresses [of bargaining
unit employees] pales in comparison to the privacy invasion threatened by
[public] release of the rap sheet").

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE v. FLRA
GINSBURG, J.,

concurring in judgment

v. Julian,486 U. S. 1, 8 (1988). In Tax Analysts, for example, the Court required disclosure of Department of Justice
compilations of district court tax decisions to the publishers
of Tax Notes, a weekly magazine. That disclosure did not
notably "ad[d]... to public knowledge of Government operations." 492 U. S., at 156-157 (BLACKMUN, J., dissenting) (required disclosure "adds nothing whatsoever to public knowledge of Government operations").
Just as the FOIA requester confronts no "core purpose"
obstacle at the outset, no such limitation appears in the text
of any FOIA exemption. The exemption asserted in this
case, for example, provides that an agency may withhold information if disclosure "would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy." 5 U. S. C. §552(b)(6).
It is fully consistent with this statutory language to judge
an invasion of personal privacy "warranted," courts held
pre-Reporters Committee, even if the disclosure sought is
unrelated to informing citizens about Government operations. Courts, on the issue before us, found disclosure in
order because the information was deemed necessary by the
expert Authority to vindicate an interest specifically identified by Congress in the Labor Statute-the interest in promoting federal-sector collective bargaining.
Such an interpretation is reconcilable with a main rule that
the identity and particular purpose of the requester is irrelevant under FOIA. See ante, at 496. This main rule serves
as a check against selection among requesters, by agencies
and reviewing courts, according to idiosyncratic estimations
of the request's or requester's worthiness. In the matter at
hand, however, it is Congress that has declared the importance of the request's purpose, and Congress that has selected a single entity-the employees' exclusive bargaining
representative-as entitled to assert that purpose. Allowing consideration of the public interest Congress has recognized would distinguish among potential requesters on the
basis of the interest they assert, not simply their identity or

Cite as: 510 U. S. 487 (1994)
GINSBURG, J.,

concurring in judgment

particular purpose. See FLRA v. Department of Navy,
Navy Resale and Services Support Office, 958 F. 2d 1490,
1495 (CA9 1992) (cautioning against "confus[ing] the identity of the requester with the interest asserted by the
requester").
I am mindful, however, that the preservation of Reporters
Committee, unmodified, is the position solidly approved by
my colleagues, and I am also mindful that the pull of precedent is strongest in statutory cases.

See Burnet v. Coro-

nado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S. 393, 406 (1932) (Brandeis, J.,
dissenting); Di Santo v. Pennsylvania,273 U. S. 34, 42 (1927)
(Brandeis, J., dissenting). I therefore concur in the Court's
judgment, recognizing that, although today's decision denies
federal-sector unions information accessible to their privatesector counterparts, "Congress may correct the disparity."
Ante, at 503.

