OCTOBER TERM, 1993
Opinion in Chambers

CAPITOL SQUARE REVIEW AND ADVISORY
BOARD ET AL. V. PINETTE ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY OF INJUNCTION
No. A-517. Decided December 23, 1993
An application to stay an injunction requiring applicants to allow respondents to erect a large Latin cross in front of the Ohio Statehouse is denied. The privately owned cross is currently in place and scheduled to
be removed tomorrow. Whatever harm may flow from allowing the
cross to remain in place for one more day has probably already occurred;
because the legal issues are presumably capable of repetition, the case
is unlikely to become moot when the cross is removed. Applicants may
be well advised to marshal their arguments in a certiorari petition that
can be considered with appropriate deliberation.

Circuit Justice.
Today is Thursday, December 23, 1993. Yesterday evening applicants filed with me, in my capacity as Circuit Justice for the Sixth Circuit, an application for a stay of an injunction entered by the District Court and upheld by the
Court of Appeals. The injunction required applicants to
allow respondents, the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan and
its leading officers, to erect a large Latin cross in front of
the Ohio Statehouse in Columbus, Ohio. As I understand
the situation, the cross is in place now and is scheduled
to be removed tomorrow. If I were to grant the application
forthwith, it would be removed today-unless, of course, respondents could persuade the full Court to reinstate the
injunction.
The case is unique because the District Court found that
the local government has effectively disassociated itself from
the display:
"Indeed, the 'reasonable' observer-being an individual
who is knowledgeable about local events-might well
know by virtue of all of the recent media coverage that
the state of Ohio as represented by its leading elected
JUSTICE STEVENS,

1308

CAPITOL SQUARE REVIEW AND ADVISORY
BD. v. PINETTE
Opinion in Chambers

officials opposes the display of the cross and any messages which might reasonably be associated with this
display by the Klan. Moreover, the reasonable observer would likely know that a menorah was displayed
during the celebration of Hanukkah, and a Christmas
tree has been displayed throughout the month of December. From all of this, the reasonable observer should
conclude that the government is expressing its toleration of religious and secular pluralism." No. C2-931162 (SD Ohio, Dec. 21, 1993), p. 13.
In their application, applicants do not dispute the accuracy
of that finding.
Whether or not applicants' legal position is sound (and my
opinion in Allegheny County v. American Civil Liberties
Union, Greater Pittsburgh Chapter, 492 U. S. 573, 646-655
(1989), explains why I am not unresponsive to their arguments), they must shoulder the burden of persuading me that
irreparable harm will ensue if I do not grant their application. Frankly, it is my opinion that whatever harm may flow
from allowing the privately owned cross to remain in place
until tomorrow has probably already occurred. Moreover,
because the legal issues are presumably capable of repetition, I do not believe the case will become moot when the
cross is removed tomorrow. Rather than asking my colleagues to resolve those issues summarily, applicants may be
well advised to marshal their arguments in a certiorari petition that can be considered with appropriate deliberation.
For these reasons, I shall defer to the judgment of the
Court of Appeals and deny the application.
It is so ordered.

