SUPREME COURT
Whiridge et al. v. Dill et al.

the contemplation of the eontracting Powers, and is not em.
braced in this article of the treaty. This view of the treaty
disposes of this cause upon the grounds on which it was determined in the Supreme Court of Louisiana. It has been
suggested in the argument of this case, that the Government
of the United States is incompetent to regulate testamentary
dispositions or laws of inheritance of foreigners, in reference
to.property within the States.
The question is one of great magnitude, but it is not important in the decision of this cause, and we consequently abstain from entering upon its consideration.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is affirmed.

THOMAS WHITRIDGE AND OTHERS, CLAMATrS OF THE SCHOONER
FANNIE CROCKER, APPELLANTS, v. JOSHUA DILL AND OTHERS.
In a collision which took place between two schooners in the Chesapeake bay,
the colliding vessel, being the larger, and fastest sailer, and attempting to
pass the smaller to windward, was in fault, because there was not a sufficient
lookout.
The absence of a lookout is not excusable, because of an accident wiich had
happened, and which required all hands to be called to haul in the damaged
mainsail.
3he was also in fault, because, being not sufficiently to the windward to have
passed the other vessel in safety, she did not seasonably give way and pass
to the right, the wind being from the northwest, and both vessels directing
their course north by east, the smaller vessel laying one point closer to the
wind than the larger.
Where a vessel astern, in an open sea and in good weather, is sailing faster than
the one ahead, and pursuing the same general direction, if both vessels are
close hauled on the wind, the vessel astern, as a general rule, is bound to give
way, or to adopt the necessary precautions to avoid a collision.
Cases cited to illustrate this principle.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

States for the district of Maryland.
It was a libel filed in the District Court by Joshua Dill and
ten others, owne&; of the schooner Henry R. Smith, against
the schooner Fannie Crocker, for running down and sinking
the schoonerHenry- R. Smith.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

449

Wlhitridge d~aZ. v. Dal2 d a7.

The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
The District Court decreed against the Fannie Crocker, and
this decree was affirmed by the CircUit Court. Whitridge
and the other owners appealed to this court.
It was 'argued by Mr. Brune, upon a brief filed .by Brown
and Brune, for the appellants, and by Mr. Latrobe for the
appellees.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the distridt of Maryland. The libel was filed
in the District Court on the thirty-first day of March, 1855..
It was a proceeding in rem against the schooner Fannie Crocker,
and was instituted by the libellants, as the owners of the
schooner Henry R. Smith, to recover damages on account of
a collision which took place between those vessels on the
ninth day of March, 1855, in the Chesapeake bay, whereby.
the latter vessel was run down and totally lost. As alleged
by the libellants, their vessel sailed the day previous to the
collision, from Hampton roads, in the State of Virginia, laden
with a valuable cargo of oysters, and bound on a voyage td
New Haven, in the State of Connecticut.
They also allege, that at half past eight o'clock, in the evening of the day of the collision, the wind being then from the
northwest, and blowing a fresh breeze, and when their schooner
was heading one point to the eastward of north, close hauled
on the wind, another schooner was seen on their larboard
-quarter, about one-third of a mile distant; that the strang
schooner sailed faster than the vessel of the libellants, and
soon came up with and abeam of their vessel, when she put
her helm up, bore away, and coining down on the vessel of
the libellauts, head on, struck her abreast the cabin, and so
damaged her that she sunk 'n a few minutes, leaving the
master and crew only time to escape on board the colliding,
vessel.
Many other facts and circumstances are stated in th e .libel
to show that those on board the vessel of the libellants were
VOL. XXIf.

29

SUPREME COURT.,
Whsitridge et al. v. Dill dt al.

not in fault, and that the' collision was occasioned wholly
through the unskilfulness and negligence of thos6 in charge
of the vessel of the claimants. In t'heir answer, the claimants
-admit the collision, and that the vessel of the libellants was
lost, but they deny that the circumstances attending the disaster are truly stated in the libel.
According to their account of the circumstances, it became
necessary for the Fannie Crocker, between eight and nine
o'clock in the evening of that day, and just before the collision,
to tack, in order to alter her course. At that time, as they
allege, she -was heading towards the southern and western
shore, but being under a double-reef. mainsail, foresail, and
jib, and in ballast trim, she failed to go round. Similar attempts, as they allege, were several times repeated, but without success. Finding that the vessel would not go round, the
master then gave the order to wear ship, and in executing that
order the main peak was lowered to enable the vessel to wear
rapidly; but when7 the main boom passed over the deck, the
wind caught the sail and threw it over the main gaff, and tore
the sail from the leach-rope, rendering it perfectly useless.
While assisting to execute this order, one of the seamen had
his leg caught in the fore-sheet, and was severely injured,
when all hands, ex9ept the master, who was at the wheel,
went to relieve the seaman. After disengaging the seaman
from his dangerous situation, the rest of the hands, as the
claimants allege, were called to haul in the mainsail, which
was then dragging in the water, and at this juncture another
vessel, which subsequently proved. to be the schooner of the
tibellants, was seen on the starboard quarter of the claimants'
vessel, some three or four lengths off. In order to prevent the
two vessels from coming in contact, the claimants allege that
the helm of their vessel was put hard up, with a view to go to
the stern of the strange vessel; but the effort was unavailing,
and the two vessels came together, and, as the claimants allege, wholly through the carelessness and unskilful management of tlaose in nharge of the other vessel, in not altering
their course in proper time to avoid a collision.
Some particularity has been observed in stating the defence,

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

451

Whilridge et dl. v. Dil et al.

in order that the respondents may have the full benefit of the
position they have assumed.
Two witnesses only were examined, on the part of the.
libellants, in respect to the circumstances of the disaster. In'
the District Court a decree was entered for the libellants,
allowing them the full value of their vessel and cargo; and
on appeal to the Circuit Court, that decree was affirmed.
Whereupon the respondents appealed to this court.
From the pleadings and evidence, it satisfactorily appears
that the Henry R. Smith was a schooner of one hundred and
thirty-four tons, and.that she was laden with oysters, and
bound on a voyage to New Haven, in the State of Connecticut.
She was a stanch vessel, well manned and equipped, showed'
a proper light at the time of the collision, and had a- sufficient
and competent lookout. On the other hand, the Fannie
Crocker was a schooner of two hundred and twenty-two
tons, sailing in ballast, and was bound on a voyage from
Dighton, in the State of Massachusetts, to Baltimore, in
the State of Maryland. Like the other vessel, she was
stanch, and well manned and equipped, but failed to show
a light at the time of the collision, and had no sufficient
lookout stationed on any part of the vessel. All of the witnesses state that the night was clear, and that there was no
difficulty in seeing objects without lights at considerable distance. They mention no circumstance tending to authorize
the conclusion that the collision can be justified or excused on
account of the character of the night or the difficulties of the
navigation. Occurring, as it did, inside of the capes, in the
open bay, of a clear night, with no difficulties to encounter,
except a fresh breeze from the northwest, it is obvious that
one or both of the vessels must be in fault. They were both
sailing in the same general direction; but the vessel of the
respondents, being in ballast, and the larger of the two, was
moving through the water at the greater speed. She was
astern of the other vessel, and somewhat to the windward, but
was sailing on a line converging to the track of the othei vessel; and both vessels were close hauled on the wind.
Terry,.the mate of the libellant's vessel, says when he first.

SUPREME COURT.
Whitride el al. v. Dill et al.

saw the other schooner, she was half a mile distant on the
weather quarter. At that time both vessels were on the wind
and standing the same way-to the northward and eastward.
:According to his account, the vessel of the respondents sailed
faster than the vessel of the libellants, and ran down until she
got abreast of her to the windward, when she was about fifty
rods distant. He also states, that when they first saw that
she was coming down on them, they put the helm of their
vessel up, and tried in every way to keep clear of her, but
could not, as she had fallen off from her course, and was then
before t~ie wind.
Another witness (a seaman) was also examined by the libellants. His testimony substantially confirms the mate, and
clearly shows that the vessel of the libellants was ahead, and
that the other vessel was to the windward, and moving through
the water much faster than the vessel of the libellants.
Both witnesses testify in effect that the approaching vessel,
when she was nearly abreast of their vessel, fell off and struck
the vessel of the libellants on the larboard quarter, as alleged
in the answer. They both affirm that they had a sufficient
and competent lokout and proper lights.
Several witnesses i'Were also examined on the part of the
respondents. Their account- of the circumstances attending
the disaster differs in several particulars from that given by
the witnesses examined by the libellants. They all agree,
however, that the vessel of the libellants was not seen by any
one on board their vessel until she was so near that all efforts
on their part to prevent a collision were unavailing.
In effect, they also admit that their vessel, at the time of
the collision, had no. lookout engaged in the performance
of that duty. On this latter point, the master says that he
had directed the steward,' a colored man, to keep a lookout,
and adds, that he was somewhere about the main deck. But
all hands had been called to haul in the mainsail, and the
second mate states that he first saw the vessel of the libellants
while he was engaged with the other hands in endeavoring to
accomplish that object.. When he saw the vessel, he says
she was only about three times the length of his vessel off

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

453

Wldffidge et dl. v. Dill d ad.

At that time, all the hands, except the steward, were aft the
"mainsail,
where they could not see the other vessel
without
changing their position. She was first descried by the second
mate as he stepped up on to the "lazy board," so called, in
order to haul up the damaged sail. He then cried out to the
master to put the helm down, but- the mate at the same time
sung out to put the helm up. In this confusion, the master
adopted the suggestion of the mate; and he admits that the
steward, when the alarm was given, came running aft, and
assisted him in changing the helm.
Two other witnesses state that the steward assisted the
master in putting up the helm; and one of them says that no
particular person was keeping watch, and attempts to justify
the neglect upon the ground that it is not customary to have
a man forward when all hands are called to take in the sails.
Suffice it to say, without entering more into detail, that the
testimony of the respondents shows cohehIsively- that their
vessel had no sufficient lookout at the time of the collision;
and the second mate, who first discerned the vessel of the
libellants, testifies, without qualification, that if they had seen
her three or four minutes sooner, they could have cleared her
and prevented a collision.
From these facts, which are proved beyond doubt, it necessarily follows that the vessel of the respondents was in fault.
She had no lookout; and the neglect of that precaution contributed to the disaster, and in all probability was the sole
cause that piroduced it.
2. Assuming that the vessel of the respondents was not
sufficiently to the windward to have passed the other vessel
in safety, then she was also in fault, because she did not seasonably give way, and pass to the right. Where a vessel
astern, in an open sea and in good weather, is sailing faster
than the one ahead, and pursuing the same general direction,
if both vessels are close hauled on the wind, the vessel astern,
as a general rule, is bound to give way, or to adopt the necessary precautions to avoid a collision. That rule rests upon
the principle that the vessel ahead, on that state of facts, has
the sea-way before her, and is entitled to hold her position;

SUPREME COURT.
Whitridge et aZ. v. D Il et al.

and consequently the vessel coming up must keep out of the
way.
Speaking of steamers, Judge Betts said, in the case of the
Gbvernor, Abbott's Adm. R., 110, that the fact that they were
running in the same direction, the one astern of the other,

imposed upon the rear boat an obligation to precaution and
care, which was not chargeable, to the same extent, upon the
other. He accordingly held, that a vessel in advance is not
bound to give way, or to give facilities to a vessel in her rear,
to enable such vessel to pass; but that the vessel ahead is
bound to refrain from any manceuvres calculated to embarrass
the latter vessel while attempting to accomplish that object.
Similar views had previously been announced by the same
learned judge, in the case of the steamboat Rhode Island,
decided in 1847. In that case, it is said the approaching
vessel, when she-has command of her movements, takes upon
herself the peril of determining whether a safe passage remains
for her beside the vessel preceding her, and must bear the
consequences of misjudgment in that respect. No immunity
is extended by the law to the one possessing the greater speed;
and so far from encouraging the exercise of the power to its
utmost, the law cautiously warns and checks vessels propelled
by steam against an improvident employment of speed, so as
to involve, danger to others, being stationary or moving with
less velocity. Olcott's Adm. R., p. 515.
That case was appealed to the Circuit Court, where it was
affirmed. The Rhode Island, 1 Blatch. C. C., 368.
Emerigon says, a ship going out of a port last is to take
care to avoid the vessel that has gone out before her, and he
mentions the case of a small vessel which went out of the port
of Marseilles, and in tacking struck a boat that went out before her, which was also tacking. Claim for damages was
made by the boat, and the judges were of opinion that the
vessel going out last is to take care to avoid the one before it.
Emerigon, chap. 12, sec. 14, p. 830. Other continental authorities may be cited to the same effect. Whether it be by
night or day, says Valin, b. 2, p. 578, the ship that leaves after
another, and follows her, should take care to avoid a collision,

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

455

- eJenns e aL.v. Banning.

without which she will have to answver in damages. Sibille
-de Abordage, sec. 249.
We are not aware that the precise .question presented in this
case has been ruled by any of the Federal courts. Remarks
are certainly to be found in the opinion'of the court in the case
of the Clement, 17 Law Rep., 444, which are inconsistent v'ith
the proposition here laid down. That case *as appealed to
•the Circuit Court, and was there affirmed. But the re'marks
to which we -refer were not necessary to the decision of the
cause, and we.think they must be received with.some qualification.' The Clement, 2 Cur. C. C., 368, sec. 1; Pars. Mar.
Law, p. 197, note 2.
Without further. discussion of the general principle at the
present time, it will be sufficient to say, that we are satisfied
that the rule assumed in this case is one well calculated to
prevent collisions, and that it is one which ought to be constantly observed and enforced in all cases where it is applicable. That exceptional cases may arise is not ht all improb7
able; but it will be the proper time to consider them when
they are presented for decision. For these reasons, we ai6 of
the opinion that the vessel of the respondents Was wholly in
fault. Objection was made to the damages as excessive, on
the ground that the vessel might have been raised from where
she was sunk-. After a careful examination of the testimony,
we think the objection cannot be sustained.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed with
costs

CHARLES E. JENKINS, MOSES KNEELAND, AND JAcKsoN HADLEy,
PLAINTIFFs IN ERROR, V. WiLLAm S. BANNING.
Where a case is brought up to this court, and the writ of error appears to have
been sued out for delay, the judgment will be affirmod with costs and ten per
cent. damages.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the District

Court of the United, States for the district of Wisconsin.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

