SUPREME COURT.
Flowers v. Foreman.

bution of the proceeds. For aught that appears, the road has
been managed, under its present directors, with prudence and
fidelity, and to the satisfaction of the bondholders, the parties
exclusively interested.
Another objection taken to the validity of the mortgage is,
the want of power under the charter to construct the road
from Hudson to Millersburg, and consequently to borrow
money and pledge the road for this purpose. There is certainly some obscurity in the statutes creating this corporatidi.
as to the extent of the line of its road; but we agree with tli;
court below, that, upon a reasonable interpretation of thel..
the power is to be found in their charter. They were authorized to construct the road from some convenient point on the
Cleveland and Pittsburgh road, in Hudson, Summit county,
through Cuyahoga Falls, and Akron, to Wooster, or some
point on the Ohio and Pennsylvania railroad,.between Massillon and Wooster, and to connect with said Ohio and Pennsylvania road, and any other railroad running in the direction of
Columbus. It was clearly not limited, in its southern terminus,
to its connection with the Ohio and Pennsylvania road, for
there is added, "and any other railroad running in the direction of Colhmbus." The extension of the road to the Ohio
Central road at Zanesville, or at some other point on this road.
comes fairly within the description.
We have not referred particularly to the authority of the
company, under the statute laws of Ohio, to borrow money
and pledge the road for the security of the payment, as no such
question is presented in the brief or was made on the argument. Indeed, the-authority seems to be full and explicit.
IDeeree below affirmed.
CHARLES FLOWERS, SURVIVOR OF ALIoE FLOWERS, PLAINTIFF IN
EnRROR, v. FRANCIS FOREMAN, SURVIVING PARTNER OF CHRIS-

TIAN KELLER, DEFENDANT.
Where a party residing ,iMaryland sold land in Louisiana with a general warranty to a resident of Louisiana, who was afterwards evicted from a part uf i,
and obtained a judgment against his warrantor, whom he had vouched in.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

133

Flowersv. Foreman.
this judgment could not be rendered effective against the Maryland vendor,
because no notice bad been served upon him, and the appointment of a
curatorad, hoc was not sufficient.
An action of assumpsit having been afterwards brought against him in the
Maryland court by the parties interested, the statute of limitations of Maryland was considered to be applicable to the case.
The eviction of the vendee took place when he held the land under a title different from that which had been conveyed to him by his grantor, without the
necessity of the execution of a writ of possession.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Maryland.
It was an action of assumpsit brought by Charles Flowers
and Alice Flowers, of Louisiana, claiming to be heirs and
universal legatees of Charles Mulhollan, against Foreman,
surviving partner of Keller & Foreman.
The claim arose in this way:
There was a tract of land in Louisiana, which Calvit conveyed to Davis, Davis to Keller & Foreman, and these last to
Mulhollan, under a power of attorney dated 21st December,
1827. The attorney conveyed it to Mulhollan with a clause
of general warranty.
Mulhollan, on the same day, conveyed a part of it to
Reuben Carnal, but nothing more need be said about this
deed 'for the purpose of explaining the questions which arose
in this case.
The heirs of Calvit, in 1838, filed a petition in the District
Court, parish of Rapides, State of Louisiana, alleging that
they were the sole heirs of their mother; who was the lawful
wife of Anthony Calvit; that during the community between
said Anthony Calvit and his wife, he purchased said tract of
land; that the said wife died, leaving the petitioners her heirs,
and their father their natural tutor; that in the year 1822,
while petitioners were minors, he sold the whole of said land
to A. J. Davis, in violation of the rights of petitioners, who
were entitled to one-half thereof, as the heirs of their mother:
that said land was then in possession of said Charles MulholIdn and Reuben Carnal, and the petition prays that one half
of said land may be adjudged to them.

SUPREME COURT.
Flowers v. Foreman.

Carnal filed his answer, denying the allegations in the pe.
tition; alleging that he purchased said land from Charles Mulhollan, who was bound to defend the title, and citing him in
warranty in the suit.
Mulhollan filed his answer, denying all the allegations of
the plaintiffs, and alleging that he purchased said land from
said Keller & Foreman, under a general warranty, and he
prays that said Keller & Foreman, as warrantors, may be
cited to defend him in his title and possession, and that curators ad hoe may be appointed to represent the said warrantors,
who are absentees.
In conformity with the prayer contained in Mulhollan's
answer, a citation issued, not to Keller & Foreman, but to
George K. Waters, who is styled curaiorad hoc of the parish
of Rapides, and said Waters appeared and filed an answer,
and undertook to defend the cause for the absentees, on whom
no process was served, and who had no notice nor knowledge
of the case.
The District Court gave judgment in favor of the defendant.
The case was appealed, and the Suprenie Court of Louisiana, on the 26th of November, 1845, reversed the decision of
the District Court, and ordered, adjudged, and decreed, "that
said James and Coleman Calvit do recover of the defendant,
each and respectively, one undivided eighth of the tract of
land described-in their petition, that they be quieted in their
title to the said undivided eighth hereby decreed& to them
respectively as against the defendant or any person claiming
through or under them;" but with regard to the question of improvements and rents and profits, so far as James and Coleman
Calvit were interested, and as to the question of damages between the warrantees, the case was remanded to the District
Court. And on a rehearing, the Supreme Court, on the 29th
of October, 1845, decreed that its former judgment be maintained as far as it went, and that, in addition to the purposes
for which it was ordered to be remanded, it be also remanded
for the further purpose of ascertaining whether the price
received by the plaintiffs' father and titor for the property in
dispute was applied to the payment of the community debts

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

135

Flowers v. Foreman.

of the father and mother of the plaintiffs, to which said James
and Coleman were bound to contribute in proportion to
their- rights thereto; and that in the mean time no writ of
possession issue until they have paid the amount which may
be found to be due by them on the trial of the cause in the
lower court.
During the progress of the cause, Charles Mulhollan died,
and Charles Flowers and Alice Flowers appeared therein as
his heirs and universal legatees.
Charles Mulhollan died in 1846. Shortly afterwards,
Thomas 0. Moore, the acting executor, paid to James and
Coleman Calvit twelve hundred dollars each for their relinquishment of their claims to the tract of land in question.

On the 31st of May, 1853, the District Court rendered judgment in favor of Charles Flowers and Alice Flowers against
Keller & Foreman, who were represented by the curator ad
hoc. The judgment was for eight hundred and fifty dollars,
with interest thereon, at five per cent., from the 14th of
November, 1846, and costs.
There being no mode of reaching Keller & Foreman,
under this judgment, an action of assumpsit was brought
against them, as before stated, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of Maryland. The defendants
pleaded the statute of limitations of Maryland.
The two statutes of this State are-the following, viz:
The act of 1715, chapter 23, section 2, provides that all
actions upon the case shall be brought "within three years
ensuing the cause of such action, and not after," with a-saving
by seetion 22 in favor of persons beyond seas.
The act of 1818, chapter 216, section 1, repeals the saving
in the act of 1715, in favor of persons beyond seas.
The reader will perceive that the only question in the case
was when the statute began to run, whether in 1846 or 1853.
The Circuit Court granted the following instruction.
The defendant prays the court to instruct the jury, first,
that the act of the State of Maryland, passed in the year 1715,
chapter 23, entitled, "An act for limitation of certain actions,
for avoiding suits at law," and the act of said State, passed in

SUPRENHE COURT.
Flowers v. Foreman.

the year 1816, chapter 216, entitled, "An act to avoid suits at
law," constitute a bar to the recovery by the plaintiff in this
case. To the granting of which instruction the plaintiff excepted, and -upon this exception the case came up to this
court.
It was argued by Mr. Brent and Mr. Phelps for the plaintiff
in error, and by Mr. Brown, upon a brief filed by Brown and
Brune, for the defendant.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error maintained the following proposition:
That upon all the evidence in the case it appears, either
that our cause of action did not accrue at all, until 31st May,
1853, or only accrued sub modo, and in abeyance, and did not
mature until that date; in either of which cases, we are within the statutory limits.
Such part of the argument of the counsel for the plaintiff in
error as there is room to insert, was as follows:
That said contract was broken, giving a right of action to
the plaintiff.
(Upon the defence of limitations.) That such action accrued
within three years prior to the institution of the suit.
These two points will be considered together.
The contract was concerning land situated in Louisiana. It
was made in Louisiana, and there it was to be performed. The
inquiry therefore is, what, by the lex loci, was necessary to constitute a beach of the contract?
Story s Conf. Laws.
By the civil law, the remedy upon .the obligation of warranty is two-fold, and each remedy has respect to a distinct
and independent cause of action.
The more usual remedy in the French and Louisiana practice is the one which was originally resorted to in .he present
case, while pending in the Louisiana court. By it, the warrai tr is formally vouched or cited in to defend his vendee's
title, as soon as proceedings are commenced against the latter.
If the seller thus called in cannot defend, "the judge con-

DECEMBER TERM, "1859.
Flowers v. Foreman.

demns him to indemnify the defendant, by the same sentence'
by which he pronounces in favor of the original plaintiff."
In this form of proceeding, the cause of action may be said
to arise as soon as the vendee is troubled in his possession by
a suit, for at that moment his right to call in his vendor in
warranty accrues.
The other remedy is the one now being prosecuted, and
which was rendered necessary by the fact that the first was
ineffectual, the court which gave judgment not having jurisdiction over the absent parties.
In substance, this remedy corresponds to the ordinary common-law action of covenant, and, like it, is not available until
final sentence is pronounced, and cannot be brought before the
vendee has sustained an eviction, either actual or constructive.
Pothier des Ventes, part 2, 0. 1, sec. 2, art. 5, sec. 2.
Domat, lib. 1, tit. 2, sec. 10.
In the present case, therefore, the cause of action did not
accrue until eviction was consummated.
"Eviction " is defined to be "the loss suffered by the buyer
of the totality of the thing sold, or a part thereof, occasioned
by the right or claim of a third person."
Civil Code, art. 2476.
It is dcided that this text does not require actual dispossession. Any holding by the vendee by a title different from
that acquired from his warrantor, falls within its terms. As, if
the disturbed vendee purchases in the paramount title to quiet
his possession, ha thereby sustains a constructive .eviction, and
has a right of aztion upon his warranty.
Pothier des Veutes, No. 96.
Landry v. Garnet, 1 Rob.,.362.
Thomas v. Clement, 11 Rob., 897.
Before proceeding to ipply these principles to the facts, it
is necessary premise that those facts appear from two distinct
species of evidence. First, the record evidence, consisting of
the certified transcript of proceedings of the District Court of
Rapides parish, in the suit of Cal-It v.- Mihollau. And second, the parol and documentary evidence returned with the
commission.

SUPREME COURT.
Flowers v. Foreman.

This distinction is important, in view of the peculiar form
of the instruction given below. If that instruction can be
supported upon the facts disclosed by the record evidence
alone, we concede that it is unobjectionable in point of form.
If, however, it is predicated in any the least degree upon the
parol testimony, it is fitally defective; and for this plain reason, that it takes the testimony from the jury, who are the
sole judges of its credibility, by a peremptory charge that the
statutes of limitations constituted a bar.
The law should have been given to the jury hypothetically,
leaving them to find the facts.
Budd i. Brooke, 3 Gill, 198.
Calvert v. Coxe, 1 Gill, 95.
Charleston Ins. Co. v Corner, 2 Gill, 410.
Ragan v. Gaither, 11 G and J., 472.
It may also be premised, that in an action for breach of
warranty, the record of the suit in which the title paramount
was litigated is conclusive evidence of the eviction, in cases
where the warrantor had notice, and an opportunity to defend
his vendor's title. Where no such title was given, the record
is still primafacie evidence, not only of the validity of the paramount claim, but of its extent, &c.
Civ. Code, art., 2493, 2494.
Clark v. Carrington, 7 Cranch, .308.
It may well be argued, that in the present case the defendant
had such notice.
Field v. Gibbs, Pet. C. C. R., 155.
Roberts v. Caldwell, 5 Dana, 512.
Wernwag v. Pawling, 5 G. and J., 500.
But, whether notice or not, the record is properly in evidence.
Hanson v. Buckner, 4 Dana, 251.
Owings v. Hull, 9 Peters, 627.
Now, first examine the facts of this case, as they appear
from the record evidence, independent of the parol testimony,
to determine whether these facts alone do not give the plaintiff a right of action, to which the statute of limitations is not
a bar.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

139

flowers v. Foreman.

The litigation upon the paramount title commences in 1838.
In 1843, the District Court renders ah adverse judgment, and
the defeated claimants appeal. In 1845, the appellate court
affirms this judgment as to two of the claimants, but reverses
it as to the two youngest, and decides that they are entitled
to recover each an undivided eighth.
Pausing an instant at this point, 'we ask whether this decree, even if-it bad been in terms a Ifinal judgment, would, by
the law of Louisiana, have per se amounted to an eviction.
The answer is clearly that it would not.
Murray v. Bacon, 7 New S., 271.
The recital in the final judgment, "whereas his lgal representatives have been evicted by the decree of the court," &c.,
when taken in connection with the decree to which it refers,
obviously does not use the term in its strict, technical sense.
If a technical eviction is meant at all, it can only be by relation.
But the decision of the appellate tribunal was not a final
decree, but, on the contrary, preliminary and prospective
merely, contemplating farthei proceedings, and prescribing
future action as a condition precedent to a complete eviction.
So far, then, there is no eviction-therefore, no breach of
warranty-therefcre, no right of action; and hence we may
safely assume that down to November, 1845, limitations have
not commenced to run against us.
Resuming the inspection of the Louisiana record, (to which,
for the present, we are confining ourselves,) from the time the
decree of the appellate tribunal was filed inthe District Court
in November, 1845, nothing appears which has the remotest
relation to an eviction, until 1858-the intervening minutes
showing no more than that the suit was still pending in the
District Court, revived in the name of the "legal representatives" of the deceased defendant, Mulhollan.
On the 30th May, 1853, the present plaintiff, with his now
deceased co-plaintiff, for the first time appear in the cause,
make themselves parties in -their capacity as "heirs and univirsal legatees of the original defendant, adopt his answers
and defences, and ask for judgment over against the warrant.
ors, in case judgment be reddered'in favor of plaintiffi.

SUPRE.NIE COURT.
Flowers v. Foreman.

And on the next day (81st May) ther is a i entry of what
purports to be . final judgment of the District Court, reciting
the decree of the court above, and also reciting the fact, which
for the first time appears, that "the legal representatives of
Charles Mulhollan have purchased the claims of said Calvirs
for the sum of $2,400."
Within the principles laid down, this recital furnishes at
once a state of facts such as by the lex loci amounts to an
eviction, and gives a right of action upon the warranty.
< Iv cases before cited, 1 Rob. 862, and 11 R., 397.
The record, however, does not furnish the date at which the
purchase was made. That it does not do this expressly, is
certain. That it does not fix the exact date by implication,
is equally clear.
It is true, the judgment in awarding interest upon the $850,
the sum which it entitles the Flowers's to recover against the
warrantors, does compute from the 14th INovember, 1846.
But it does not connect this date in any manner with the
previons recital of the purchase; and it would be a violent
construction, certainly, which should force such a connection,
independent of any extrinsic information. And it is to be
borne in mind, that we are now considering the case upon the
record evidence alone.
Nor is it for us to supply the omission caused by the silence
of the record with respect to time. It is for the defendant,
who relies upon limitations, to show that we are barred. It
is enough for us to show, that at all events, upon the 31st
May, 1853, we had a cause of action, without being required
to prove how long before we might have had it.
If, then, it appears by the record alone, that upon the 31st
May, 1853, the litigation upon the paramount title was
brought to a close by final judgment, and that upon that day
we stood as purchasers of the paramount claims, with nothing
in the record to show that we were such purchasers long anterior to that time, we submit that the instruction given by
the court below, that we were barred by limitations, was erroneo is, inasmuch as we commenced one suit within less than
three years from said date, to wit: on the 3d November, 1855.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

141

Flowers v. Foreman.

We now proceed to consider the case, as it may be modified
by the parol testimony.
The depositions of J. A. Calvit and Judge Ogden disclose
the fact that the relinquishment of the paramount claims was
made on the 14th N~ovember, 1846, and that the purchase was
made by Thomas 0. Moore, the acting executor of Afulbollan.
Upon this evidence, the attempt is made to set up the bar
of limitations against the heirs, by dating their right of action
back to the time when a voluntary payment was made by the
executor.
There is nothing to show that the heirs authorized this
arrangement concerning their land, or that they were privy
t. it in any manner. And we submit, thit they were not
bound nor concluded by it, directly or indirectly, until the
31st May, 1853, when the final judgment, rendered the day
after their appearance in the suit, by reciting the payment,
showed that they had ratified and adopted it as their own.
Until adopted by the heirs, the purchase of the Calvits'
claims by Moore, although doubtless made in "good faith,"
and as the "beet arrangement that could be made for the
estate," yet not being within the scope of his executorial
pbwers, was no more the act of the heirs than if made by an
entire stranger for purposes of speculation.
Brush v. Ware, 15 Pet., 93-111.
Code La., art. 1652.
Anderson's Executors v. Anderson's Heirs, 10 La., 35.
The doctrine is well settled, that an action upon warranty
may be brought by the executors, provided the breach be
duriig the lifetime of the testator; but if the breach occur'
after his death, the action can only be maintained by the
heirs.
1 Parsons Cont., 109.
Rawlings v. Adams, 7 Md., 49.
It is plain, th efore, that no right of action accrued upon
this contract of warranty, 'until the 31st May, 1853. The
executors could not haie sued: 1st, because the payment by
them did not constitute an eviction at all, they not being
authorized to represent the land; and 2d, because, even if

SUPREME COURT.
Flowers v. Foreman.

such payment did constitute an eviction, the breach was not
until after the death of Mulhollan, the warrantee, in which
case the heirs alone could maintain an action.
Nor could the heirs have sued, for they had not then ratified the voluntary and 'gratuitous act of the executors, and
made the payment their own.
There being no parties competent to sue, limitations could
not run.
Fishwick v. Sewell, 4 H. and J., 893.
The counsel for the defendant in error made the following
points:
I. This is an action of trespass on the case on a promisd,
otherwise called an .action of assumpsit.
The cause of action of the plaintiff in error, if any he had,
accrued, and limitations began to run on the 14th of November, 1846, when payment was made by thE executor of Mulhollan in behalf of the estate. And therefore more than three
years had elapsed before the bringing of this action on the
3d of November, 1855, and the claim is barred by the acts of
limitation of the State of Maryland of 1715, ch. 28, see. 2, and
1818, ch. 216, see. 1.
Beatty's Adm'rs. v. Burnes's Adm'rs., 8 Cranch, 98.
Murdoch v. Winter, 1 H. and G., 471.
Frey v. Kirk, 4 G. and J., 509.
Sprague v. Baker, 17 Mass., 591.
Loomis v. Bedel, 11 N. H., 74.
Day v. Chism, 10 Wheat., 452.
2 Greenleaf's Ev., sec. 244.
Foote v. Burnet, 10 Ohio Wilcox, 330.
I. The judgment of the District Court of the State of
Louisiana, in favor of Charles H. Flowers and Alice Flowers
against Christopher Keller and Francis Foreman, for $850,
with interest from the 14th of November, 1846, the date of
the payment by Mulhollan's executor, is void, the court below
having no jurisdiction in the case, the defendants never having
been served with process, and never having had notice or
knowledge of the case. The judgment against Keller is by a

DECEMBER TERM, 1859
Flowers v. Foreman.

wrong name. His true name was Christian, not Christopher
Keller, and he was in fact dead at the time when it was tendered, although that fact does not appear by the record. But
the plaintiff in error does not sue on this judgment, or claim
thereunder. If the judgment were valid, his cause of action
would be merged therein, and suit would have to bd brought
on the judgment, and the form of action would be debt, not
assumpsit.

Harris v. Hardeman, 14 How., 389.
Mr. Justice WAYNE deliveredI the opinion of the court.
We shall cite such fact in this record as are necessary to
show the relations and obligations of the parties to it, under
the laws of the State of Louisiana, and in that of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district 6f Maryland, from
which it has been brought here by writ of error.
The plaintiffs are the heirs and universal legatees of Charles
Mulhollan, to whom Keller & Foreman sold a tract of land,
with an obligation of warranty. On the same day that the
conveyance was executed to Mulhollan, he conveyed by deed
a part of the land to Reuben Carnal, with a like clause of general waranty.
Afterwards, William J. Calvit, Elizabeth G. Calvit, Jame,
A. Calvit, and Coleman W. Calvit, filed their petition in the
District Court for the parish of Rapides, alleging that they
were the heirs of their mother, the lawful wife of their father,
Anthony Calvit, and that they were entitled to half of the
land, as it had been purchased by their father during their
mother's coverture with him, which superinduced between
them a community of acquests or gains-there .having been by
them no stipulation to the contrary. And they allege, also,
that their father, as their natural tutor, had sold the land, for
a part of which they petitioned, while they were minors, in
violation of their rights.
They further state, that Charles Mulhollan and Reuben
Carnal were in possession of the land, and ask that one-half
of it might be adjudged to them, as the heirs of their mother.
Being thus brought into ¢ourt, Mulhollan and Carnal filed
I

SUPREME COURT.
Flowers v. Foreman.

their answers. Each deny the allegations of the plaintiffs-Carnal citing Mulhollan into court as his warrantor-; and
Mulhollan alleges, in his answer, that he bad purchased the
land from Keller & Foreman, with a general warranty.- He
asks that they might be cited, to defend him in hiN title and
possession ; and that, as they were absentees from the State
of Louisiana, he prayed for the appointment of curators ad
hoc, to represent them in the case.
George K. Waters was designated by the court as their curator; and, upon being summoned, appeared in that relation,
and, assuming to be the attorney of Keller & Foreman, filed
an answer for them. Keller & Foreman, however, never had
any knowledge of the suit, nor any notice of the appointment
of Waters as curator.
Waters, in his answer, cited in warranty the legal representatives of A. J. Davis, deceased, from whom Keller & Foreman
had bought the land.
The legal representatives of Davis appeared, by George
Purvis, their curator, and in their turn cite in warranty, Anthony Calvit, their ancestor's vendor, who was the father of
t1wplaintiff, by whom the land had been sold to Davis. An.
thony Calvit appeared by attorney, denying the petitioner's
allegations.
After several continuances, the case was brought to trial in
the District Court, and judgment was entered for the defendants. The plaintiff carried it by appeal to the Supreme Court
of Louisiana. The judgment of the court below was reversed,
on the 26th November, 1845. That court decided that the two
youngest petitioners, James and Coleman Calvit, were each
entitled to one undivided eighth of the land in controversy;
but that William J. Calvit and Elizabeth G. Calvit were excluded from recovering, on account of the prescription of ten and
twenty years, which Mulhollan had pleaded in his answer.
The court then remanded the cause to the District Court, for
further proceedings on the question of improvements, costs,
and profits, and of damages between the warrantors.
Afterwards, on a rehearing, the Supreme Court directed a
further inquiry to be made, for the purpose of ascertaining

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

145

Flowers v. Foreman.

whether the price received for the land by the father and tutor
of the plaintiff had been applied to the payment of the debt
of the community of their father and mother; "and it ordered.
if any of it had been, that James and Coleman Calvit should
contribute in proportion to their rights in the land; and that,
in the mean time, no writ of possession should issue until they
had paid the amount which the court below might determine
to be due by them."
After the rendition of the Supreme Court's decree, Charles
Mulhollan died. His will was admitted to probate on the 11th
July, 1846. On the same day his death was suggested, and
an order was passed to renew the suit in the names of his legal
representatives. Three days afterwards, Thomas 0. Moore,
the executor of Mulhollan, paid to James and Coleman Calvit $2,400 for a relinquishment of their claims to the land in
controversy, and of all their rights in the judgment which had
been rendered in their favor.
No farther proceedings were had in the suit from the 11th
November, 1846, to the 30th May, 1853, when the plaintiffs, in
this suit made themselve§ parties, as heirs and universal legatees of their uncle, Charles Mulhollan, the original defendant.
They adopted his answers and defences, and ask for judgment
against his warrantors, Keller & Foreman; which was given
on the following day, in the District Court, to which the cause
had been remanded, for those purposes only heretofore stated.
Such have been the relations of the parties named in the
record, in the District and Supreme Court of the State of
Louisiana. Whatever was the liability of Keller & Foreman, as warrantors of Mlulhollan, they never were subjected
to the jurisdiction of the District Court, by any talid proceeding from it, to enble that court to carry that liability into a
judgment in favor of Mulhollan, their vendee, or in favor of
his representatives, Charles and Alice Flowers.
When Mulhollan answered the petition of the Calvits, and
asked that Keller & Foreman should be cited into court as
his'warrantors, no citation for that purpo.e was served upon
them to do so. One was issued for-and served upon Waters,
to represent them as curator ad hoc; but that was insufficient
VA L "XXIII

10

SUPREME COURT.
Flowers v. Foreman.

to give to the District Court jurisdiction to pronounce judgmen' against them, though that court did do so. Hence it is
that this action of assumpsit was instituted, to recover damages
alleged to have been sustained upon a breach of the warranty
of Keller & Foreman to'Mulhollan.
In the declaration in this action, it is recited that Keller &
Foreman had conveyed to Mulhollan a tract of land, with warranty, and that the Supreme Court had adjudged that James
and Coleman Calvit were each entitled to an undivided eighth
of the same. They were declared to have entered into the
same, and evicted Mulhollan from it; in consequence of
which, Mulhollan, to regain his possession, had paid to James
and Coleman Calvit twenty-four hundred dollars, for the relinquishment of their claims to the land. To this action, the
defendant pleaded non assumpsit; and it was agreed in writing, by the counsel in the cause, that, under such issue,
all errors in pleading should be mutually waived, and that the
defendant was to be permitted, under it, to rely upon the
statute of limitations.
Upon the trial of the case, that point was urged. The stat
utes of Maryland of the years 1715, ch. 23, and 1818, ch. 216,
entitled, Acts to avoid suits at law, were insisted upon, as constituting a bar to the recovery of the plaintiffs. Such was the
instruction given by the court.
There is no error in the instruction. More than three years
had elapsed after their right of action had accrued, before the
plaintiffs brought their suit. Their uncle had been judicially
declared not to be entitled to a part of the land by the decree
of the Supreme Court. That of itself was an eviction under
the law of Louisiana, though the court postponed giving a writ
of possession to the parties in whose favor its decree was made,
for the purpose of having certain points ascertained in which
all the parties to the cause were interested-no one of them
more so than Mulhollan himself. The date of the Supreme
Court's decree in favor of the two Calvits is 26th November,
1845, shortly after Mulhollan died. The District Court had.
not then adjudged those points for which the case had been
remanded to it.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Flowersv. Foreman.

Before that was done by the court, and soon after Mulhollan's death, his active executor, Moore, on the 14th November, 1846, bought from the two Calvits their claim to that
part of the land which had been decreed to them by the Supreme Court. This itself was an eviction, though the Supreme
.Court, in deciding upon these rights to the land, had withheld
from the Calvits a writ of possession. It is not necessary, to
constitute :an eviction,.that the purchaser of land should be
actually dispossessed. (11 Rob., 397.) It was also ruled, in
the same case, that an eviction may take place when the vendee
continues to hold the prolierty under -a different title from
that transferred to him by his vendor. In this instance, Mulhollan's representatives held the title to a part of the land,
originally bought by him from Davis as a whole, by the purchase of James and Coleman Calvit's undivided eighth.
The same conclusions had been previously ruled by the same
court-in Ahguste Landry v. Honore Felix Gamel, 1 Robinson,
362. The court's language is: "It is true that, by the authorities to which wehave been referred, the doctrine is well established, that, in order to constitute an eviction, it is not absolutely necessary that the tpurchaser. should be actually dispossessed. That eviction takes place, although the purchaser
continues to hold the property, if it be under a title which is
not that transferred to him by his vendor, as if he should extend the property, or should acquire it by purchase from the'
true owner." (Pothier, Vente, No. 96; Troplong, Vente, No.
415; Toullier, vol. 16; Continuation by Duve'rgier, vol. 1,
Nos. 309, 313.) Other cases in the Louisiana reports have the
same conclusions, but we do not think it necessary to cite
them. The rulings in 1 and 11 Robinson announce it to be
the uncontested doctrine in the Louisiana courts, that actual
dispossession is not necessary to constitute an eviction, and
that, if the purchaser holds under another title than that of his
vendee, an eviction may take place. Those decisions cover the
case in hand in both particulars, and they show that the purchaser of the land had suffered an eviction by the decree of
the Supreme Court, in the meaning of that term in the law of
Louisiana, though a writ of possession had not been issued.

SUPREME COURT.
Flowers v. Foreman.

But if that was doubtful, it is certain that the eviction wis
accomplished when the executor of Mulhollan bought, for the
benefit of his testator's estate, the claim to the land which
James and Coleman Calvit had acquired.
Mulhollan, by his will, granted to his executors, immediately
on his death, full and entire seizin and possession of all his
estate, to hold and manage the same until all the legacies given
by him were paid over and fully discharged. The signification
of a delivery of seizin to an executor will be found in articles
1652, 1664, 1666, 1667, of the Civil Code, and in 35 of Revised Statutes, 3. These articles provide that a testator may
give the seizin of the whole or of a part of his estate to his
executor, accordingly as he may express himself. The seizin
usually continues for a year and a day, but may be prolonged
by an act of thi court, and May be terminated whenever the
heirs shall deliver to the executor a sum sufficient to pay the
movable legacies. The seizin of the executor is distinct from
and paramount to the seizin which the law vested in the heir
immediately on the death of his ancestor, and the heir can only
deprive the executor of it by providing security for the per.
formance of his obligations. The executor represented the
reception, in so far as respects creditors and legatee. (Bird v.
Jones, 5 Ann. La. Rep., 645.) When the testamentary executor submitted to the title of the Calvits, and paid them for
it, that was an eviction, which gave to him a right of action
in behalf of the succession against the warrantors of his testator. His right of action passed to the heirs of Mulhollan
when he delivered the succession to them, or whenever it
came to their hands by due course of law. It was delivered
to them, and the executor's seizin terminated in the year 1847,
though the precise day does not appear in the record. The
heirs, upon its termination, were reinstated in all the rights
which had been temporarily administered by the executor.
Those rights will be found in articles 934, 935, 936, of the
Code. One of the effects of those rights is to authorize the
heir to institute all the actions w'hich the testator could have
done, to prosecute to a conclusion such as had been commenced by the testamentary executor, and to commence all

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

149

Benjamin v. Hillarde al.

actions which he had failed to institute belonging to the succession. (15 Lou., 527; 7 Rob., 188; 2 Ann., 889; 7 Ann.,
367.) In such a suit by the heirs, the same defences may be
made which could have been kpplied if the executor's seizin
had been continued. But in this instance, neither the executor nor the heirs, the plaintiffs in the suit, took any legal
step to carry to a judgment Mulhollan's citation of Keller &
Foreman in warranty in the District Court of the parish of
Rapides, until the .80th May, 1858, more than fourteen years
after the eviction of Mulhollan had occurred, and after the
rights of the Calvits had been bought. The heirs now, how.ever, seek by this suit in assumpsit in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of Maryland, to recover damages
from Foreman, the survivor of his partner, Keller, for the failure of their warranty to Mulhollan, the suit having been commenced between eight and nine years after their right of action
had accrued. •The defendant relies upon the statutes of limitation of Maryland as his defence to prevent a recovery. We
think it must prevail, and that the court below, in giving to
the jury such an instruction, committed no error. We therefore direct its judgment to be affirmed.

SBEoN BENJAmmIN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. OLIVER B. FHIARD
AND MOSES 0. MORDECAI.

Where there was a contract for furnishing a steam engine, the following guar
anty was made: "For value received, I hereby guaranty the performance of
the within contract, on the part of Hopkins & Leach; and in case of non
performance thereof, to refuna to Messrs. Hillard & Mordecai all sums of
money they may pay or advance thereon, with interest from tha time Ihe same
is paid."
This contract is not in the alternative, but consists of two terms: one, that the
principals shall perform their engagement, not merely by the delivery of some
machinery, but of such machinery as the contract includes; the other, that if'
there be a non-performance, whether excusable or not, the money advanced
on the contract shall be secured to the plaintiffs, to the extent to which the
principals are liable.
An 4cquiescence of both parties in the prolongation of the thue within which
the contiact was to be fulfilled, will not operate to discharge the'guarantor.

