SUP1REME COURT.
Green v. Custard.

claimant, W. H. Sheldon, pay for the portion claimed by him
the sum of $1,754.22. Sheldon appealed from the decree to
this court.
The motion is now made to, dismiss the appeal, on the
ground. that the decree against Sheldon is less than $2,000,
and which is apparent from a perusal of the decree. The sum
decreed against him is only $1,754.22.
.The freight was separately awarded against the claimants,
in proportion to the cotton shipped by each one. The rights
of each were distinct and independent.
But if it were otherwise, and the whole of the freight jointly
against the claimants, the appeal must still be dismissed, as
then the claimants should have joined in it.
Motion to dismiss granted.

TiOMAS

J. GREE, PLAINTIF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM CUSTARD.

Where the Circuit Court of the United States has jurisdiction over the parties
and cause of action, by virtue of the 12th section of the judiciary act, it can

not be affected by any amendment of the pleadings, changing the cause of
action, or by the proviso to the l1th section.
The evils commented upon, arising from the courts of the United States permit,
ting the hybrid system of p1pading from the State codes to be introduced on
their records.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the Uinited States for the western district of Texas.
The facts and history of the case are stated in the opinion
of the court.

It was argued by Mr. Frederick P. Stanton for the plaintiff
in error, no counsel appearing for the defendant.
Upon the principal point involved in the case, .Mr. Stanton
said:
The court below properly acquired jurisdiction of the case
as made by the original petition, which alleged that Custard
was a citizen of Texas, and Greel a citizen of Massachusetts.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

485

Green v. Custar,

Act of 1789, ch. 20, see. 12.
But it had no authority, to remand the case to the State
court; the only alternative was, to dismiss it altogether.
The right to have his case tried in the Federal court, in a
proper case for removal, is an absolute legal right in the party
so removing it.
Ward v. Arredondo, Paine's C. C. R., 410.
Beardsley v. Torre, 4 Wash., 286.
Gibson v. Johnson, Peters C. C. R., 44.
Gordon v. Longest, 16 Pet., 97.
It is only causes improperly removed which will be remanded.
Laws U. S. Courts,'147, which quotes Pollard v. Dwight,
4 Craneh, 421.
Wright v. Wells, 1 Pet. C. C. R., 220, is an authority to
show that a party, after a removal of the cause, cannot amend
so as to oust the jurisdiction of the Federal court. And the
rule is just; for otherwise a party would only have to exercise
his ibgenuity-o suggest matters of amendment, either true or
false, in order to send the case back to the State court. Of
these amendments, the, Federal court, having no jurisdiction,
could not inquire at all.
Mr. Justice GLIER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case originated in the District Court for the county of
McLenian, in the 1State of Texas, where Custard had instituted his suit against Green by attachment, claiming to recover from him the balance due on a judgment entered on a
mortgage given, by Green to one Arthur, on lands in California. Green appeared, and moved to have his cause removed to the District Court of the United States, he being a
citizen of Massachusetts, and Qustard d citizen of Texas-the
case coming clearly within the provisions of the 12th section
of the judiciary act of 1789.
It is probably because.this case originated in a State court,
that the court below permitted the counsel to turn the case into
a written wrangle, instead of requiring them to plead as lawyers,
in a court of common law. We had occasion already to notice

SUPREME COURT.
Green v. Custard.

the consequences resulting from the introduction of this hybrid
system of pleading (so called) into the administration of justice
in Texas. (See Toby v. Ranaon, 11 How., 517, and Bennet
v. Butterworth, 11 How., 667, with remarks on the same in
McFaul v. Ramsey, 20 How., 525.) This case adds an-other
to the examples of the utter perplexity and confusion of mind
introduced into the administration of justice, by practice
under such codes.
Without attempting to trace the devious course of demurrers, replications, amendments, &c., &c., which disfigure this
record, it may suffice to say that the plaintiff, beginning, after
some time, to discover that he could not recover on his original cause of action, among other amendments set forth an
entirely new cause of action, to wit, a note given by Green,
payable to "Arthur or order," for $5,000, without any endorsement or assignment by Arthur to plaintiff, but which
Custard alleged he had obtained "in due course of trade."
After further demurrers, exceptions, &c., &c., and after
taking testimony in California, wholly irrelevant to any possible issue in the case, the record exhibits the following judgment:
"And now on this day came the parties by their attorneys,
and the court being now sufficieutly advised upon the questions submitted, is of opinion that. the judgment, the original
cause of action- in this case, is not conclusive-in fact, is a nullity; but because the parties plaintiff have amended their petition herein, setting forth the note the base of said judgment,
and as it has become a part of the pleadings in this case, and
the court being of the opinion that, upon the note, the court
is debarred from entertaining the case further in this court,
for want ofjurisdiction, it is therefore considered by the court
that the cause ought to be remanded. It is therefore ordered
and decreed that this case, with all the papers belonging to
the same, be and is hereby remanded to the District Court of
McLennan county for further action."
So far as this judgment treats the original cause of action
"as a nullity," it could not be objected to; and perhaps the
same remark might have equally applied to the amended por-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

487

Corlporation of New York v. _ansom et a7.

tion. But the conclusion, that the court had no'jurisdiction
to proceed further, and the order to remand the case to the
State court to try the other half of it, is a clear mistake, for
which the judgment must be reversed.
If Green had been a citizen of Texas, and Custard had
claimed a right, as endorsee of a citizen of Texas, to bring
his suit in the courts of the United States, because he (Custard) was a citizen of another State, the case would have occurred which is included in the proviso to the 11th section of
the act which restrains the jurisdiction of the court. But the
United States court had jurisdiction of this case, by virtue of
the 12th section. It is a right plainly conferred on Green, a
citizen of Massachusetts, when sued by a citizen of Texas, in
a State court of Texas, no matter what the cause of action
may be, provided it demand over five hundred dollars. The
exception of the 11th section could have no possible application to the case.
Let the judgment be reversed, and the case remanded for
further proceedings.

THE MAYOR, ALDERMEN, AND CoMMONALTY, .o THE CITY oF
NEw YORK, PLAINTIPFS Ix ERROR, v. Fn .11K RANSOM AND
UZZAH WENMAN.
In an action for. damages for the infringement of a patent right, the plaintiff
must furnish some data by which the jury may estimate the actual damage.
If he rests his case after merely proving an infringement of his patent, he
may be entitled to nominal damages, but no more.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district of New
York. -

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It Was submitted on a printed argunient by .Mr. Kellar foi
the defendants in error, no counsel appearing for the plaintiffs
in error.

