DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

457

Doe d aZ.v. Wison.

ment was given in favor of the plaintiff for the amount of the
former judgment, together with interest on the same.
On this state of the record, the defendants sued out a writ
of error, and removed the cause into this court, but have failed
to appear and prosecute their writ of error. They did not except to the ruling of the District Court, and have not assigned
error in this court, and it is obvious, from an inspection of the
transcript, that there is -no error-n the proceeding. Motions.
to amend mere formal defects inthe pleadings are always addressed to the discretion of the court, and are usually granted
as a matter of course, and their allowance is never the subject
of error. That point' has been so frequently decided, that we
do not think it necessary to cite authorities in its support.
Under these circumstances, the counsel for the defendant in
error moves that the judgment be affirmed with ten per cent.
damages. By the twenty-third rule of this court, if is provided
that in 'all cases where a writ of error shall delay the proceedings on the judgment of the inferior court, and shall appear
to have been sued out for delay, damages shall be awarded at
the rate of ten per centum per annum on the amount of the
judgment, and the said damages shall be calculated from the
date of the judgment in the court below, until the money is
paid.
That rule is applicable to this case, and the judgment is accordingly affirmed, with costs and ten per cent. damages.

JOHN DOE, EX DEM. CURTIS MAN AND DOLPHUS E]ANNAH,
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM WILSON.
In a treaty made with the Pottawatomie" Indians in 1832, there were reservations
to individual Indians, wich should be selected under the direction of the
Presideit of the United States, "after the land shall have been surveyed, and
the boundaries shall correspond with the public surveys."
Before this was done, one of these reservees made a conveyance by a deed in fee
simple, with a clause of general warranty. In 1837, patents were issued for
the reservations.
This deed vested the title of the reservee in the grantee. The former was a
tenant in common with the United States, and could sell his :eserved interest-

SUPREME COURT.
Doe et al. v. Mkon.
and when the United States selected the lands reserved to him, and made partitioi b (of which the patent is conclusiv evidence,) his grantee took the interest whicli the reservee would have taken if living.
A prayer to the court. that the land patented was not the same as that reserved
was properly refused, because the recital in the patent was conclusive evidence
to the contrary.

THIS case was brought up by writ of, error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Indiana.
It was an ejectment brought by Mann, a citizen of Niew
York, and IIan~ah, a citizen of Iowa, against Wilson, to re.cover sections nine and ten, in township 35, range 4 west, in
the county of Laporte, in Indiana.
The important question involved in the case may perhaps
be more distinctly presented to the reader by a chronological
order of events than by a recital of the titles offered upon the"
trial by the plaintiffs and aefendani; respe~tively.
In October, 1832, treaties were made with the Pottawatomie
Indians, by whioh the Indians ceded to the United States certain tracts of land therein described, except certain reservations to the Indians, amongst which was one to Pet-chi-co, of
two sections. The language of the reservation was: "The
United States agree to grant to each of the following persons
the quantity of lan& annexed to their names, which lands shall
be conveyed to them by patent." To Pet-chi-co two sections,
&c., &c.
Then followed this gentence: "The foregoing reservations
shall be selected under the direction of the President of the
United States, after the lends shall have been surveyed, and
the bound.aries to eorresppnd with the-public surveys."
7 Stat. at L., 394, 395.
In February, 1833, Pet-chi-co made a deed to Coquillard
and Colerick, with a general warranty, conveying "all of those
two sections of rand lying and being in the State aforesaid,"
&c., &c.
Before the lands were selected or located by the President,
and before any patent issued, Pet-chi-co died.
In January, 1837, patents were issued to Pet-chi-co and his
heirs for the t.o sections mentioned in the treaty. They re-

DECEMBER. TERM, 1859.

459

Doe et aL v. Wil.on.

cited that, "whereas, by the third article of the treaty made
in October, 1832, the United States agreed to grant to Petchi-co two sections; therefore, ' &c., &c.
In 1854, certain persons obtained a deed from the heirs of
Pet-chi-co; and under this deed the plaintiffs.below (who were
also plaintiffs in error) claimed, upon the ground that the deed
from Pet-chi-co in 1833 was invalid. Wilson claimed under
the latter deed. The leading question in the case was, therefore, whether Pet-chi-co had a right to make the deed when
it was made.
In the course of the trial below, many exceptions were
taken respecting matters of evidence, and many prayers to
the court made; in so much that the counsel for the plaintiffs
in error, after many other points, enumerated twenty-six distinct causes of error. It is not necessary to mention these.
The rulings of the Circuit Court upon the two following points
are sufficient for the purpose of the present report:
4. If Pet-chi-co, between the ratification of the treaty and
the issuing of the patents, sold and conveyed the land in controversy by a sufficient deed of conveyance, with covenants of
warranty, to Coquillard and Colerick, and their assigns, then
the patenth when issued, as to the assignees, related back to
and took effect from the ratification of the treaty.
5. If, before the issuing of the patents to Pet-chi-co, he had,
by a legal and valid instrument, assigned to Coquillard and
Colerick his interest in the lands which were to be granted to
him under the treaty of October, 1832; and if Colerick had,
in like manner, assigned his interest to Coquillard; and if
Coquillard had, in like manner, assigned to Wilson, then, by
.virtue -of the act of Congress of. May 20, 1836, the patents
when issued inured to the benefit of Wilson, and vested the
legal title to the land in him, although Pet-chi-co may have
died before its date.
The verdict being for the defendant, the plaintiffs brought
the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Baxter for the plaintiffs in error, aiid
by Mr. John B. B\ses for the defendant.

SUPREME COURT.
Doe et al. v. Waso.

Without following the counsel through the branches of the
case or the effect of the act of 1836; -we can only state the positions assumed upon the point decided by this court.
Mr. Baxter said:
I. The third article of the treaty of the 27th October, 1832,
was a mere executory promise of the United States, to grant
in future and by patent to Pet-chi-co two sections of land, to
be thereafter selected by the President. This promise was to
be performed by the political department, and before its performance could create no inchoate title or estate in Pet-chi-co
to any lands.
Longlois v. Coffin, 1 Indiana Reports, 446.
Verden v. Coleman, 4 Ind., 457.
Haden v. Ware, 15 Ala., 158.
Fipp v. McGehee, 5 Porter, 413.
Johnson v. McGehee and Thomas, 1 Ala., 173, 174.
And this, being a mere executory promise, to be executed
by the political department, was not assignable; and the effort
was against public policy, and could convey no estate to the
assignee, or give him any right to the land.
Lampet Case, 10 Coke, 46 b, 48 a.
Cruise, vol. 4, p. 174, title 82, chap. 6, see. 46.
Carleton v. Lughton, 3 Merivale, 670.
Doe d. Brun v. Martin, 8 Barn. and Cress.; 15 Com. Law
Rep., 283.
4th see. act of July 22, 1790, 1 S. L., p. 138.
12th see. act of 1802, 2 S. L., p. 143.
Opinion of Mr. Taney on Treaty of 20th October, 1852,
2 Opinions, 588.
Jackson v. Wood, 7 John., 294.
Goodell v. Jackson, 20 Johnson, 706, 708.
Mr. Niles said:
The fourth instruction given by the court was as follows:
"If Pet-chi-co, between the ratification of the treaty and
the issuing of the patents, sold and conveyed the land in controversy, by a sufficient deed of conveyance, with covenants
of warranty, to Coquillard and Colerick, and their assigns,

DE_CE

BER TERM, 1859.

461

Doe dt al. v. Wison.

then the patents, when issued, as to the assignees, related
back to and took effect from the date of the ratification of the
I
treaty."
This instruction announces a well-known principle, often
affirmed by the Supreme Court,-that all the several parts and
ceremonies necessary to complete a conveyance shall be taken
together as one act, and operate from the substantial part by
relation.
Cruise on Real Property, vol. 5, pp. 510, 511.
Jackson ex dem. Forrest v. Ramsay, 3 Cow., 75.
Landes v. Brant, 10 How., 848.
Ross v. Barland, 1 Peters, 655.
Lessee French v. Spencer, 21 How., 228
The doctrine of this instruction is strengthened in its 'appli.
cation to this case by the act of Congress of May 20, 1836,
above referred to.
In Landes v. Brant, the court say, that "in every case in
which this court has been called on to investigate titles where
conveyances of lands had been made during the time that a
claim was pending before a board of commissioners, and where
the claim was ultimately confirmed in the name of the original
claimant, .the intermediate assignments have been upheld
against the confirmee, and his heirs and devisees, in the same
manner as if he had. been vested with the legal title at the date
of the conveyance."
10 Howard, 348
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
By the treaty of October 27, 1882, made by'the United
States, through commissioners, with the Pottawatojuie tribe
of Indians of the State of Indiana and Michigan Territory,
said nation ,ceded to the United States their title and interest
in and to their lands in the States of Indiana and Illinois,, and
the Michigan Territory, south of Grand river.
Many reservations wer emade in favor of Indian villagers
jointly, and to individual Pottawatomies. The reservations
are by sections, amounting probably to a.hundred, lying in
various parts of the ceded country. As to- these, the Indian.

SUPREME COURT.
Doe et at. v. Wison.

title remained aD it stood before the treaty was made; and to
complete the title to the reserved lands, the United States
agreed that they would issue pateiits to the respective owners.
One of these reservees was the chief, Pet-ehi-co, to whom was
reserved two sections. The treaty also provides, that "the
foregoing reservations shall be selected under the direction of
the President of the United States, after the land shall have
been surveyed, and the boundaries shall correspond with the
public surveys."
In February, 1833, by a deed in fee simple, Pet-chi-co ,3onveyed to Alexis Coquillard and David H. Colerick, of the
State of Indiana, "all those two sections of land lying in the
State aforesaid, in the region of country or territory ceded by
the treaty of 271th October, 1832." The grantor covenants
that he is lawful owner of the lands; hath good right and
lawful authority to sell and convey the same. And he furthermore warrants the title against himself and his heirs. Under
this deed, the defendant holds possession.
The lessors of the plaintiff took a deed from Pet-chi-co's
heirs, dated in 1855, on the assumption that their ancestor's
deed was void; he having died in 1833, before the lands were
surveyed, or the reserved sections selected. And on the trial
below, the court was asked to instruct the jury, "that Petchi-co held no interest under the treaty in the lands in question, up to the time of his death, that was assignable; he having died before the location of the land, and before the patents
issued."
This instruction the court refused to give; but, on the contrary, charged the jury, that "The description of the land in
the deeds from Pet-chi-co to Coquillard and Colerick, from
Colerick to Coquillard, and from Coquillard to Wilson, are
sufficient to identify the land thereby intended to be conveyed
as the same two sections of land which are in controversy in
this suit, and which are described in the patents which have
been read in evidence."
It is assumed that the lands embraced by the patents to Petchi-co, made in 1837, do not lie within the section of country
ceded by the treaty of 27th October, 1832; and therefore the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

463

Doe e aZ. v. Wison.

court was asked to instruct the jury that the defendants cannot claim nor hold the land as assignees of Pet-chi-co, by virtue of the treaty. The demand for such instruction" was also
refused.
There is no evidence in the record showing where the land
granted by the patents lies, except that which is furnished by.
the patents themselves. They .recite the stipulation in the
treaty in Pet-chi-co's behalf; that the selections for him, of
sections nine and ten, had been made, "as being the sections
to which the said Pet-chi-co is entitled," under the treaty.
The-recitals in the patents conclude all controversy on this
point.
The only question presented by the record that we feel ourselves called on to decide is, whether Pet-chi-co's deed of February, 1833, vested his title in Coquillard and Colerick.*
The Pottawatomie nation was the owner of the possessory
right of the country ceded, and all the subjects of the nation
were joint owners of it. The rbservees took by the treaty,
directly from the nation, the Indian title; and this was the
right to occupy, use, and enjoy the lands, in common with the
United States, until partition was made, in the manner prescribed. The treaty itself converted the reserved sections into
individual property. The Indians as a nation reserved no interest in the territory ceded; but as a part of the consideration
for the cession, certain individuals of the nati6n had conferred
on them portions of the land, to which the United States title
was either added or promised to be added; and it matters not
which, for the purposes of this controversy for possession.The United States held the ultimate title, charged with the
right of undisturbed occupancy and perpetual possession, in
the Indian nation, with the exclusive power in the Government of acquiring the right. Johnson v. McIntosh, 8 Whea..
603; Comet v. Winton, 2 Ydrger's R., 147.
Although the Government alone'can purchase lands from
an Indian nation, it doesnot follow, that when the rights of
the nation are extinguished, an individual of the nation who
takes as private owner, cannot seUhis interest. The Indian
title is property, and aIiepble, unless the treaty had prohib-

SUPREME COURT.
Uni&d States v. CastilU'ro.

ited its sale.

Comet v. Winton, 2 Yerger's R., 148.

Blair

and Johnson v. Pathkiller's Lessee, 2 Yerger, 414. So far
from this being-the case in the instance beforQ us, it is manifest that sales of the reserved sections were contemplated, as
the lands ceded were forthwith to be surveyed, sold, and inhabited by a white population, among whom the Indians could
not remain.
We hold that Pet-chi-co was a tenant in common with the
United States, and could sell his reserved interest; and that
when the United States selected the lands reserved to him,
and made partition, (of whieh the patent is conclusive evidence,) his grantees took the interest he would have taken if
living.
We order the judgment to be affirmed.

THE

UmEFD

STATES, APPELLANTS, V. ANDRES 0ASTILLERO.

By a special dispatch from the Minister of the Interior, under the order of tha
Mexican President, dated 20th July, 1838, the Governor of California, with
the concurrence of the Departmental Assembly, was authorized to grant the
islands near the coast.
See the case of the United States v. Osio, reported in this volume.
On the same day, another special dispatch was sent, reserving out of the general
grant such island as Castillero might select, and directing a grant to be
made to him for it, which was done.
All the signatures being proved to be genuine, and the index of the concession
being found in its proper place amongst the Mexican archives, the claim of
the grantee must be confirmed.
There was no necessity, in this case, for the concurrence of the Departmental
Assembly.

THIs was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the southern district of California.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court
The claim was confirmed by the board of commissioners,
and likewise by the District Court. The United States appealed to this court, where it was argued by Mr. Stanton for
the appellants.

