DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

487

Corlporation of New York v. _ansom et a7.

tion. But the conclusion, that the court had no'jurisdiction
to proceed further, and the order to remand the case to the
State court to try the other half of it, is a clear mistake, for
which the judgment must be reversed.
If Green had been a citizen of Texas, and Custard had
claimed a right, as endorsee of a citizen of Texas, to bring
his suit in the courts of the United States, because he (Custard) was a citizen of another State, the case would have occurred which is included in the proviso to the 11th section of
the act which restrains the jurisdiction of the court. But the
United States court had jurisdiction of this case, by virtue of
the 12th section. It is a right plainly conferred on Green, a
citizen of Massachusetts, when sued by a citizen of Texas, in
a State court of Texas, no matter what the cause of action
may be, provided it demand over five hundred dollars. The
exception of the 11th section could have no possible application to the case.
Let the judgment be reversed, and the case remanded for
further proceedings.

THE MAYOR, ALDERMEN, AND CoMMONALTY, .o THE CITY oF
NEw YORK, PLAINTIPFS Ix ERROR, v. Fn .11K RANSOM AND
UZZAH WENMAN.
In an action for. damages for the infringement of a patent right, the plaintiff
must furnish some data by which the jury may estimate the actual damage.
If he rests his case after merely proving an infringement of his patent, he
may be entitled to nominal damages, but no more.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district of New
York. -

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It Was submitted on a printed argunient by .Mr. Kellar foi
the defendants in error, no counsel appearing for the plaintiffs
in error.

SUPREME COURT.
Corporationof Vew York v. Ransom et al.

Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error were defendants in an action for infringement of a patent, "for a new and useful improvement in
the mode of applying water to fire-engines so as to reuder their
operation more efficient."
On the trial, they took some twenty-four exceptions to the
rulings of the court in their charge to the jury; but they have
not seen fit to appear in this court, and point out to us on
which of these numerous cxceptions they principally rely for
the reversal of the judgment. The defendants in error have
not elected to have the writ of error dismissed for want of
prosecution, but have filed a printed argument praying for an
affirmance of the judgment.
On examination of the record, we find that the bill of exceptions contains no copy of the specification of the letters
patent. Without this, we are unable to test the correctness
of the construction of the patent by the court below.
But there is one exception which the record enables us to
examine, and in which we think there is error.
The defendants' fourteenth prayer for instruction is as
follows:
"The plaiutiffs have furnished no data to estimate actual
damage, and therefore in no aspect of the case can they recover more than nominal damages."
If the predicate of this proposition be true, the conclusion
was correct, and the instruction should have been given by
the court.
Where a plaintiff is allowed to recover only "actual damages," he is bound to furnish evidence by which the jury may
assess them. If he rest his case, after merely proving an infringement of his patent, he may be entitled to nominal damages, but no more. He cannot call on a jury to guess out his
case without evidence. Actual damages must be calculated.
not imagined, and an arithmetical' calculation cannot be made
without certain data on which to make it.
The invention in this case was not one which enabled the
patentee to make a profit by a monopoly of its use. Nor was
it a separate and distinct machine, by the sale of which he

DECEM1BER TERM, 1859.

489

Corporationof New Tork v. Ransom et aZ.

could make a profit. The patent is for an improvement in
the apparatus of the common fire-engine, by which the hydrostatic pressure of the water from the hydrant may be combined with the hydraulic pressure of the engine, and thus add
to its power and efficiency. There was evidence tending to
show the invention to be valuable, and that it could be applied
to the engines in use at an expense of twenty-five dollars,
thereby greatly increasing the power of the machine. It was
proved that the city had applied this invention to fifty engines,
but no information whatever of Lhe price or value of a single
license is given in the bill; fifty is the coefficient by which
an unknown number is to be multiplied, and without further
data the result is still an unknown quantity. If there had
been any proof that the selling price of a single license for a
single engine was four hundred dollars, the jury would have
had something to support their verdict for $20,000
In the case of Seymour v. McOonnel, (16 Howard, 485,) it
was decided by this court, that where the profit of the patentee
is derived neither from an exclusive use of the thing patented,
nor from a monopoly of making it for others to use, the actual
damage which he suffers by the use of his improvement without his license, is the price of it, with interest, and no more.
It is to his advantage that every one should use his invention,
provided he pays for a license. The only damage to the patentee is the non-payment of that sum when the iIfringer commences the use of the invention.
As the plaintiffs in this case did nbt furnish any evidence
upon which to found a calculation of actual damages, the
court should have instructed the jury as requested by the
counsel. Instead of it, the court instructed the jn.ry as follows:
"Ifthe invention is valuable, if by its use the power and
efficiency of the fire-engines belonging to the defendant are
so increased, that fifty engines used with this improvement
are equal inpractical effect to seventy-five, or any other number of engines, used without this improvement, the jury are
at liberty to infer, if they think the inference a just one, that
the defendant, in its corporate capacity, has saved the cost

SUPREME COURT.
Corporationof New York v. Ransom et al.

of the purchase and operation of the additional number of
engines which would have been required to produce the same
results if this invention had not been used; and that the corporate authorities, if they had admitted the plaintiffs' rights,
would have paid the amount of this additional cost, or a large
portion of it, as the consideration for a license to use this invention, rather than to abandon its use; and that the plaintiffs
have therefore lost by the infringement what the defendant
would have so paid to secure such license. It is for this
reason that the benefits received by the defendant in its corporate capacity, from the use of the invention, in the consequent
reduction of its expenditures for fire-engines, and their management and operation, are proper subjects for consideration
in determining the plaintiffs' damages; and the jury must
determine for themselves, upon the consideration of this and
the other facts of the case, (if they find that the plaintiffs are
entitled to recover,) what damages have been actually sustained by the plaintiffs in consequence of the unauthorized
and wrongful acts of the defendant, being careful only to give
the actual damages proved, and not to speculate upon the
possibility or even probability of damages beyond such as are
proved to have been sustained by the plaintiffs."
It was of little use to caution the jury from giving speculative or any other than "actual damages," after the large
margin of inferenee and presumption which they were permitted to take in order to find data by which to calculate them.
It was said, in the case to which we have referred, "actual
damages should be actually proved, and cannot be assumed as
a legal inference from facts" which afford no data by which
they can be calculated.
In order to find out the plaintiffs' loss or damage, the jury
were allowed by the court to infer that the defendants have
saved all the money indicated by the comparative powers of
the engines with and without the improvement; and after
having made this inference, they may presume that the defendants would have paid this amount to the plaintiff for the use
of his improvement.
I Thus the possible advantage or gain made by the use of

DECEMBER TERM, 185v.

491

Horewood et al.v. Enequist.

plaintiffs' improvement on their machines, is made the measure of his loss. If the plaintiffs, unable to furnish any other
data for a calculation, had proved that the defendants had
made a certain amount of money by putting out the :ffres in
New York, which the plaintiffs would otherwise have made
by use of their invention, he-might with some reason contend
that this was a proper measure.
But if he fails to furnish any evidence of the proper data
for a calculation of his damage, be should not expect that a
jury should work out a result for him by inferences or presumptions founded on such subtile theories.
We therefore direct the case to be remanded- for a venire

facias de novo.
GEORGE B. MoREwooD, JoN It. MOREWOOD, AND FREDERIC R.
ROUTH, APPELLANTS, v. LORENzo N. ENEQUIT, OWNER OF THE
BRIG GoTELAND.
The admiralty jurisdictionof the cour sf

the United States extends to contracts

of charter-party and affieightmenL These are naritime contracts within the
true meaning and construction of the Constitution and act of Congress, and
cognizable ini courts of admirality, by prdcess either in rem or inperonam.
Appellants should not expect this court to reverse a decree of the Circuit Court,
merely upon a doubt created by conflicting testimony.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

States for the southern district of New York.
It was a case in admiralty, arising under the following circumstances:

The brig Gothland, owned by Enequist, was chartered by
Burt, Myrtle, & Co., of Batavia, to proceed to Padung, on the
island of Sumatra, there to receive a quantity of coffee; to return thence to Batavia and complete her c0rg6, 'anddeliver the
same in New York, freight to be-paid by. the as ignees of the
bills of lading on delivery of the cargo.
It was admitted that the bills of lading were assigned .f6r
value to the appellants, composing the firm of G. B. Morewood & Company.

