SUPREME COURT.
Green's Administratrix v. Creighton et al.

To meet this imputation of contrivance, the parties and
their counsel have filed affidavits and statements, from which
it satisfactorily appears that the action was brought by a bona
fide claimant under the grantee of the river improvement fund
against the railroad company; and although the case agreed
was made up in a friendly spirit, nevertheless the object was
to try the title, and tbis was done at the instance of some of
the Executive officers.
If the judgment of the District Court were affirmed, the
defendant below would lose the land; and it being reversed,
the plaintiff below loses it. The action was obviously brought
to carry out Secretary Stuart's suggestion, when he said,
"That the question involved partakes more of a judicial than
an executive character, and must ultimately be determined by
the judiial tribunals of the country."
We have therefore felt hound to hear and decide the cause
on its merits; and finding that the plaintiff below has no
title, we direct that the judgment of the District Court be
reversed, and the cause remanddd; and that court is ordered
to enter judgment for the defendant below.

DANIEL GREEN'S ADMINISTRATRIX V. FLETCHER CREIGHTON, IN
HIS OWN RIGHT, AND AS EXECUTOR OF JONATHAN McCALEB
DECEASED.
The courts of the United States, as courts of equity, have jurisdiction over ex
ecutors and administrators, where the parties to the suit are citizens of differeut States, and this jurisdiction is not barred by subsequent proceedings in
insolvency in the Probate Court of a State.
In such a case, the courts may interpose iu favor of a foreign creditor, to arrest
the distribution of any surplus of the estate of a decedent among the heirs.
&though at law a creditor cannot sue the surety upon an administration bond
until he has obtained a judgment against the administrator,,yet it is not so in
equity; and in the present case, where the original debtor and his surety are
both dead, insolvent, and a porti n of the assets of the estate of'the latter can
be traced to the possession of' his administrator and his surety, the pbwer of
a court of equity is required to call for a discovery of the amount and nature
of the assets in hand.

DECEMBER. TERM, 1859.
Green's Administ
safrix v. Ci-eighton et al.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of Mississippi.
The bill was originally filed by Daniel Green, a citizen of
the State of Arkansas, against Fletcher Creighton and Jona-than McCaleb. Whilst the proceedings were pending, Mc-Caleb died, antl a bill of revivor was filed against Fletcher
Creighton, his executor.
In 1836, Wheeler C. Green died in Mississippi intestate
and without isshe. His personal representatives were Daniel
Green, Reuben Green, and Sally Smith. In 1837, the latter
two. conveyed their interest in the estate to Daniel Green, who
thus became the sole claimant.
In October, 1836, letters of administration.were grant
to
Albert Tunstall, who gave as sureties upon his bond, Amos'
Whiting, George W. Summers, and Eli West.
In 1837, Whiting died, and letters of administration upon
his estate were granted to his widow, Maria L. Whiting, and
George Lake. In 1839, Maria intermarried with J. "Al. Rhodes,
who thereupon became administrator of said .Whiting in right
of his wife.
In March, 1839, Green instituted proceedings against
Tunstall, as administrator, in the Probate Court. of Claiborne county, and at June term, 1841, obtained a decree for
$61,194.76; and itwas further ordered, that the administration
bond should be put in suit in any court having cognizance of
the matter.
So far, Green's remedy-was against Tunstall personally,
and those who represented Whiting, the suretjr upon his bond.
In October, 1841, Lake 'and Rhodes and -wife were 'emoved
from the administration by the Probate Court; and Fletcher
Creighton was appointed administrator de bonis non of Vhiting, who gave bond in the penalty of $100,000, with Jonathan MYcCaleb as surety.
Green had therefore to look to Tunstall personally, and
Creighton as the administrator of Whiting, and MeCaleb as
the surety of Creighton. The bill alleged that a large amountof assets of the estate of Whiting came into the hands of
Creighton.

SUPREME COURT.
Green's Administratrix v. Creighton et al.

In August, 1843; Tunstall died insolvent, without having
paid any part of the money which he had been decreed to pay
by the Probate Court.
The bill stated that a large amount of the assets in the hands
of Creighton were at interest with McCaleb, his surety.
In 1844, Creighton, on citation for that purpose, made
another and further administration bond, with Jonathan McCaleb as his gurety, in the penalty of one hundred thousand
dollars.
In 1848, Green filed his bill against Creighton and MeCaleb.
Theprayer of the bill was, that the claim of the complainant
againist.the estate of Amos Whiting, as surety of Tunstall, who
administered on the estate of Wheeler C. Green, may be es.
tablished by decre.e of this court, and against said Creighton,
in his capacity as administrator de bonis non of said estate, to
the amount of the liability bf said Amos, for and on account
of said Albert Tunstall, as administrator of'W. C. Green. Also,
that said Creighton.and Jonathan McCaleb may adinit assets
'in the possession of Creighton sufficient to pay the claim of
complainant, or'set forth in his answer a full account of all
the assets, &c., of the estate of said Amos Whiting, which
have come to the hands pr knowledge of said Ceighton, or of
.any other person.within his knowledge.
That said Creighton may be decreed to pa to complainant
such sums of money as may be decreed ,against the estate of
Amos Whiting, or against said Creighton in his character as
admninistrator de bonis non, if sufficient assets shall be found in
his hands for that purpose; and if npt, then for such amount
as said Creighton shall be found liable for; and in case said
Creighton shall not be able to pay such sum or sums on account of said'iiiso.lvency, then that said Jonathan McCaleb
may be decreed; as his surety, to pay it for him. The bill coneludes with the general prayer for relief.
The defendants demurred to this bill, but the demurrer was
overruled, and they were required to answer. Answers were
accordingly put in, .which entered into the merits of tbr case;
but as the opinion of this court did not touch upon that branch
of the subject, it is unnecessary to do so in this report.

DECEMBER- TERM, 1859.

9S

-reen'sAdmnmstratrx v. Cregkhtonet a7.

One part of the answer must be inserted, because it raises
one of the questions decided by. this court,.viz ., the pendency
of the proceedings in insolvency
Further answering, these defendants aver that the estate of
the said Amos Whiting was repofted to be ikisolvent to the
March term, A. D. 1841, of the Probate Court of .Claiborne
county, and was -then so declared by said -court, and commissioners appointed to receive and audt claims against the said.
estate; and that, by reason of various delays in relation thereto,
the same still remains open for the proof of claims, and these
defendants insist that the complainant is bound to make out
his claim in the Probate Cou.rt in the manner required by the
laws of the State of Mississippi, and has no right to maintain
this suit to establish said claim .against the estate of Whiting,
and they pray that they may be allowed to rely on the same
as a plea in bar to said bill, and they further insist that, in
any event, the complainants can only be entitled to such a
dividend upon his clain as the estate of said Whiting may
pay
This cause having come onto be heard at the May term,
1855, of said court, and the same having been argued and
submitted, on the nineteenth day of May, 1855, on final }earing on bill, bill of revivor, answers to original bill and bill of
revivor, exhibits, and proofs, and the same having been tsken
under advisement by his honor S. J Gholson;.the judge presiding on said final hearing, and the court, being n6w, sufficiently advised in the premises, doth see fit to order, adjudge,
and decree, and it is accordingly so ordered, adjudged, and
decreed, that said bill and bill of revivor be and the same is
hereby dismissed, and that the complainant pay the costs to
be taxed, ordered, adjudged, and decreed, on .this, the twentysixth day of January, 1856.
The complainant appealed to this court, his administratrix,
Eveline C. Green, having become the party on the record.
It was submitted on printed arguments by Ir _-eeman fol
the appellant, and Mr Yerg r and J1r Wharlon for the appellee. Only those parts of the arguments will be"noticed which

SUPREME COURT.
Green's Adin inistratrix v. Creighton et al.

relate to the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States in
the present aspect of the case.

The counsel for the appellant stated the case with more
particularity than the above summary, and then continued:
Tunstall died insolverit; the money could not be made out
of- him. Amos Whiting, his surety, had died in 1837, and
the only way to establish his liability, as surety for Tunstall, to
pay the amount of Tunstall'g deealcation to the estate of Green,
was to proceed against the administrator of Whiting. But it
is said that Whiting's administrator is not liable in equity to
account until judgment had been first obtained against him at
law. To this I reply, that it was the duty of Whiting, as
surety of Tunstall, to see that he administered the estate of
Green according to law. H~e neglected this duty; the Court of
Probate had full jurisdiction to ascertain and decree the
amount of Tunstall's indebtedness to the estate of W. C.
Green, as administrator of the same; this decree was bad in
accordance with law, as shown by the ploodings and proofs,
and the amount of this decree could have been forced out of
Tunstall by attachment and imprisonment, if he had been possessed of the means to pay it. The decree of the Probate
Court was therefore a lawful and final assessment of the
damages against Whiting's principal in the administration
bond, by the only tribunal in the State of Mississippi having
jurisdiction of that subject, and must therefore be regarded
as conclusive evidence of the amount of Whiting's liability for
Tunstall, and with which his estate is chargeable.
1 Phillips's Ev., 246.
7 Howard's U. S. Rep., 220.
2 Lomax, 458, 459.
2 J. J. Marshall, 195.
But if this were not so, the answers of defendants admit
that Tunstall inventoried the estate of W. C. Green at upwards of $20,000, no portion of which was ever accounted for
in the Probate Court. The invenitory at eight per cent. would
now amount to $52,000, and, in any event, he would be liable
for" this amount, or the increase of the sixteen slaves and the

J)ECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Green's Administratrix v. Creighton et d.

value of the bricks made on the brick yard of the estate of
Green. There is no other claim established against the estate
of W. C. Green. If, then, the amount of the -damages have
been so decreed as to be binding on Tunstall, why is not the
same conclusive as to the amount of damages against- his
surety ? Because, say they, the administration bond affords a
remedy at law. If true, that does not reach the question.
Bonds of administrators are the bonds of trustees in equity,
and the surety is liable for the amount, in whatever tribunal
the principal is liable. The jurisdiction of this court over
executors and administrators is not affected by the Constitution and laws of Mississippi-its jurisdiction is not derived
therefrom nor limited thereby, but only by the Constitution
and laws of the United States; and these confer upon this
court the same jurisdiction over administrators as that of the
chancery courts of England.
9 Peters, 632, 658.
3 Wheat., 212, 4 do., 108.
5 Mason, 105.
3 Mason, 165.
3 Leigh, 407.
2 Blackford, 377.
1 Har. and J., 232.
Mumf., 368; 5 Rand, 319.
Stewart and Porter, 133; 1 Sto. Eq. Ju., 515, secs. 542, 54c
544, 545, 546, 547, 548, and 552.
Jeremy's Eq. Ju., 537, 538.
4 Johns. Ch. Rep., 619.
3 Johns. Ch. Rep., 56, 190.
Taylor and Benham, 5 How. U. S., 233.
Rule 51 of this Court.
From these authorities, it is evident that this court has full
jurisdiction over the subject matter of the bill, the oijects of
which are to obtain a discovery of assets in the'hands of the
administrator, not inventoried, and to reach equitable assets
of the estate in the hands of his surety, Jonathan McCaleb, and
others, and to marshall the assets of the estate of Whiting, if
the administrator does not admit sufficient assets to pay.com-

SUP]-iEME COURT.
Green's Administratrixv. Creighton et al.

plainant's demand. 1 Story, Eq. Ju., 601, 602, se.. 543, "a
creditor may file his bill for the payment of his own debt, and
seek a discovery of assets for this purpose only." If he does
so, and the bill is sustained, and an account is decreed to be
taken, the court will, upon the footing of such an account, proceed to make a final decree in favor of the creditor, without
sending him back to law for the recovery of his debt, for this
is one of the cases in which a court of equity, being once in
rightful possession of a case for discovery And account, will
proceed to a final decree on all the merits.
1 Story, Eq. Ju., pp. 603, 604, see. 546.
'The defendant, Jonathan McCaleb, is not only a surety on
the bond of Creighton, but is charged with having-in his hands
equitable .assets of the estate of Whiting, which a judgment
against Creighton would not reach, and this fact is admitted
by the answer of defendants. Creighton is alleged to be insolvent, and the charge is not denied. McCaleb, his snrety,
has money of the estate which Creighton refuses to collect; he
is therefore a proper party, for all these reasons.
Story Eq. PL., p. 212, sec. 178.
5 Gill. J., 432, 453.
10 Gill. J., 65, 100.
2 Rand., 398, 399.
In the case of the Ordinary v. Snooks, it was held that the
Probate Court was the proper tribunal to assess damages on
an administration bond-5 Ialstead, N. J., 65; 1 do., cited a5
above. But a court of equity has jurisdiction of a bill, by a
distributee or legatee against an administrator and his sureties,
or either of them alone, on their bond, without any previous
suit at law.
6 Calls. Va. Rep., p. 21.
2 Rand., 483.
2 J. J. Marshall, 198.
3 Monroe, 354.
4 Munford, 296, 457; 2 Bibb., 276.
2 Ifen'g and Muraf., 8; and Rule 51 of this Court.
These cases are conclusive on the points of jurisdiction alike
upon lrinciple and as precedents.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

97

Greeds Administratrix v. Creighton et al.

The counsel for the appellee stated their argument in support of the decree of the court below, dismissing the bill, as
follows:
We hope to be able to make it very clear to your honors
that the purpose of the complainant in filing this bill was to
relieve himself from the necessity of pursuing the only couir.e
which, under the operation of the Constitution and laws of.
Mississippi, it was competent for him to pursue, as well as to
evade the force and effect of decisions of the High Court 6f
Errors and Appeals, made in this very cause, and between the
same parties.
First, then, what has been adjudicated by'said High Court
of Errors and Appeals in this very cause and between the parties to this i'ecord?
It will be borne in mind that this suit is an attempt to enforce the decree of the Probate Court of Claiborne county,
Mississippi, which was rendered in the pl6uary proceedings
instituted in that court by the complainant herein against
Tunstall, th" administrator appointed by that court, of
Wheeler C. Green. The case is first brought to the attention
of the said High Court of Errors and Appeals, in Green, administrator, appellant v. Tunstall et al. 5 fow. (Miss.) R.,
638.
It was then and there held, that "the. Probaib Court'has
not jurisdiction which will enable, it to proceed against the
•sureties in an administrator's bond, on a plenary.proceeding
by bill. The sureties in the administratof's bo'nd .mut be sued.
at law, after proceedings to fix the liability of the admihisfrx-'
tor." It will be seen, from an examination ofthe report of U~e
case, that a *billwas filed in 1839, in the Probate Court aforesa:d, against said Tunstall, administrator, and his 'seurities on
his bond, (it is the same thing denominated -a plenary proceeding in this record,) for discovery. of asserts, an account, and distribution. The defendants failing. t appear and answer, pro
P0o1fesso was taken against them, and afterwards a final decree
for $44,403.35-execution was sued out, which was superseded
on Tunstall's petition. At May term, 1840, Tunstall filed a
petition or bill of review to revise the decree of 1839,.f6r
VOL..XXII.

"

7

6UPREME COURT.
Green's Administratrix v. Creighton et al.

severai reasons; the only one needful to be stated being, that
the court had not jurisdiction of said original bill, and that its
decree was void. Green, complainant in this bill, demurred to
the said petition or bill of review. Said decree was reversed
as to the sureties, and the cause reopened as to Tunstall, and
from that order an appeal was prosecuted. It is very true that
one of the questions decided by the court had reference more
particularly to the question, whether the sureties of an administrator could be called to account in the Probate Court,
oi whether they should not be sued after a final settlement by
the a-dministrator, and a decree to pay what might be
found to be due, or to make distribution. Reference is made
to the statute of Mississippi, authorizing the institution of
plenary proceedings-flutch. Code, 547, sec. 7-which provides, that whenever either of the parties, having a contest in
the Orphans' Court, shall require, the said court may direct a
plenary proceeding, by bill or petition, to which there shall be
an answer on oath, (or affirmation;) and if the party refuse to
answer on oath to any matter alleged in the bill or petition, and
proper for the court to decide upon, the said party may be attached, fined, and committed, at the discretion of the court,
and the matters set forth in said bill or petition shall be taken
pro confesso, and decreed accordingly. Being liable only on
the'administration bond, not being officers of the Probate
Court, the only recourse against the sureties is by action at
law against them, after the liability of the administrator has
been ascertained by proper proceedings in that behalf, and
after a final settlement by him, and a decree of the court fixing the amount of his liability, and directing him to pay it.
The same rule is held in Alabama and South Carolina, as may
be seen by reference to the cases cited by the High Court, viz:
I Porter, 70.
3 Stew and Port., 263, 348.
2 Bai., (S. C.,) 60.
1 Bai., (S. C.,) 27.
1 Nott and McCord, 587.
4 Nott and McCord, 113, 120.
It will be recollected that Whiting was only a security of

DECEMBER TERM* 1859.
Green's Administratrixv. Creighton et a.

rTunstall in his administration bond, and survived the grant
of letters to Tunstall only about ten months. The defendant,
Creighton,.is administrator of Whiting'and executor of defendant, McCaleb, who was. a security on the bond of defendant.
Creighton as administrator of Whitiig. The case cited from
5th Howard, apart from being- an adjudication between the
same parties of the same subject matter, would be an authority
upon general principles for the appellees.
The same arguments are offered, the same authorities, and
some others, are cited by appellant's counsel in his printed
brief in this case, which were urged by-the learned counsel
who argued the case from 5th Howard already cited, as may
be seen from page 644 of the report of said case. Yet the
High Court of Mississippi declare that they were authorities
which did not apply to the case then before them, but related
entirely to proceedings in the court of chancery, and jurisdiction was entertained' on the peouliar grounds of the respective
cases decided, and that the rule laid down in the cases from'
Alabama and South Carolina is not changed by the statute of
Mississippi authorizing a joint acti6n on the bond against an
administrator and his securities for a devastavit; and they accordingly decided that the original decree of the Probate
'Court was unauthorized by law, and that the second- decree
was proper, and that the- decree appealed from should be affirmed.
The next that we hear of these parties and of this litigation
in Mississippi is in 7 Smedes and Marshall, 197.
From the report of the case there, it seems that appellant's
counsel presented a claim to the commissioners of insolvency
appointed upon the estate of said Whiting, which had been
declared insolvent,, amounting to $60,000, which was rejected
by said commissioners, because unsupportedby proof; that
appellant thereupon filed his petition in the Probate Court,
reciting the action of said court upon the plenary proceedings
aforesaid, the decree thereon, and "the order that suit be
brought on the bond of said Tunstall, as administrator, against
him and Whiting as his surety, for the payment of said decree, in any court having competent jurisdiction theref-a

SUPREME COURT.
Green's Adminisaratrizv. Crei~gonet al.

copy of said bond and decree being all the evidence submitted to said commissioners in support of said claim-which was.
for the full amount of said bond, and that said evidence was
sufficient, and prays that referees be appointed to audit said
claim. They were alpointed accordingly, and reported iD
favor of the allowance of said claim, embracing a copy of said
bond in their report, as tho evidence on which they basee
their said allowance. The ddministrator, Creighton, filed ex.
ceptions to the sufficiency and competency of the evidence.
The exceptions were sustained, and said report set aside, to
which said appellant filed a bill of exceptions, which brought
the case before the High Court on an appeal from the decree
vacating the allowance of said commissioners. The bill of exceptions recites that appellant relied on a copy of the bond of
the administrator, and ol the decree of the Probate Court
renderea in the plenary proceedings aforesaid. The High
Court decide, "that in an action at law on the bond of an administrator, the bond is but inducement to the action, and no
recovery can be 'had on it without proof of damages. It is
only security for such- damages as the parties interested in the
estate sustained. To make it a valid claim against an insolvent
estate, or against any one, it must be accompanied by proof
of damages; if not so accompanied, it is not a cla"Im. There
must be proof that the condition has been broken, for it is
only on such a contingency that a right of action accrues.'
And again, "instead of allowing the penalty of the bond as a
claim, the referees should have allowed the am6unt.of damages sustained by a breach of the condition." Accordingly,
they affirmed the judgment of the court below.
We again meet with-this same claim in Green v. Creighton,
(10 Smedes and Marshall, 159.) Now, however, the forum is
changed, and, instead of proceedings in the Probate Court of
Claiborne county, it is a bill filed in the Superior Court of
Chancery of Mississippi: and we ask attention to the striking
similarity of the prayer as set out in the report of the case,
and the prayer of the present bill. The objects of the bill are
very clearly specified in the opinion of the court, and are the
same precisely, in legal intendment and effect, with the objects

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Green's Admin sfratRx v. Creg7donet a.

of this bill. Ail injunction had been granted. tor restrain de-.
fendant, Creighton, from paying a certain otherClaim against
the estate of Whiting.. The chancellore dissolved the inJIunc'.tion, and from-that order an appeal was taken to the High
Court of Errors and Appeals.
The following is the emphatic language of the court in
affirming the decree of the chancellor:.
"Nothing, certainly, is better settled in this court, than that
the Court of Chancery does not possess the jurisdiction which
it is here asked to exercise. The administration of estates,
and the settlement of the accounts of the administrators, falls
peculiarly and exclusively under the cognizance of the Probate
Court.

*

*

*. Suits upon the bonds of administrators per-

tain to the Circuit Court."
In that bill, it was alleged that the administrators had practiced fraud in their settlements with the Probate Court-of
which, however, no proof was offered or attempted; and the
High Court held that, if the charge were established, a court
of equity would have jurisdiction of a bill to set aside the settlements' and order new ones *to be made in the Probate
Court; but it could only entertain it for that. purpose, and to
that extent, and, having removed that obstacle outof the com-,
plainant's path, he would be remitted to the Probate Court,
there to.pursue his remedy against the administrator, as if no
such fraudulent settlement had been made. They aflirm that
there was no evidence in the ase before them to support thbE
fraud charged.. They also notice the objection taken bythe
appellant's counsel, "that there was no demurrer to the jnris.
-diction of the court below, and that it was too late to raise the
objection in the High Court, and decide that that rule is only
applicable in cases of concurrent jurisdiction, not where there.
is an entire want of jurisdiction of the subject matter."
We omitted to state, in its proper place, that in this case a
demurrer was filed to the jurisdiction of the court, and that
it was overruled, and the defendants requied to answer.
The foregoing summary will serve to show that this is'ro
new case inthe courts of Mississippi, either in name or principle,
and will also serve to show a reason for tfie change of forum.

SUPREME COURT.
Green's Administratrixv. Creigidon et al.

Precisely similar, in all its features, is the case of Buckingham et al. v.Owen.
6 Smedes and Marshall, 502.
In that case, the appellee, Owen, filed his bill in the Superior Court of Chancery, reciting that on 28th February, 1840,
he recovered a judgment in the Circuit Court against G. W.
and B. Sims, administrators of M. Sims; that they resigned
their letters of administration 2d July, 1839, and one J R.
Greer was appointed administrator de bonis non, who gave
bond, with certain persons as securities, and took possession
of the unadministered effects of said M. Sims, deceased; that
he collected and appropriated to his own use a large amount
of assets, and committed, in his aid administration, a devaslavit, for which he and his securities on his bond were liable
to answer; that said Greer died in September, 1840, intestate
and insolvent; that no one had administered on his estate;
that in December, 1840, one R. Davis was appointed adminis:
trator de bonis non of said Sims, and reported the estate insolvent; that the debt to said Owen was still due. The bill
prayed that the sureties on Greer's bond might be decreed to
pay the judgment and costs. The defendants demurred, for
want ofjurisdiction. Their demurrer was overruled, and they
appealed.
It will be seen, from the foregoing statement, the said original administrators, G. W. and B. Sims, had resigned some
six or seven months prior to the rendition of the judgment.
The judgment was, in point of fact, as it is indeed held by the
court, a nullity. But the High Court proceed to remark, that
even if it had been a judgment against Greer, the administrtor de bonis non, "we do not see upon what principle the jurisdiction of a court of aancery could be sustained in this State
over the subject matter, after reviewing the authorities cited
for the appellee, some of the very same cited by appellants in
this case, particularly Spottswood v. Dandridge, 4 Munford
R., 289.
They wholly deny the principle attempted to be established
by them. They admit that, in some of the States of the Union,
in suits against executors and administrators, courts of equity

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

103

Green's Administratrixv. Creig1htonet al.

have concurrent jurisdiction with courts of law, and that it is
upon that principle a court of chancery in Virginia exercises
it; but they quote with approbation the language in 2 Rob.
Pr., 38, showing the strong inclination of the Court of Appeals
in that State to restrict parties to their remedy at law, when
it is full and adequate, and referring to the case before cited
by us, Green v. Tunstall, 5 Howard, 638.
They say that .was "a bill filed against the administrator
and his sureties for a discovery and account of assets, and for
distribution. The object was similar to that in view in this
case, (Buckingham v. Owen.) The very authorities cited to
sustain this bill- were cited in the argument of that cause. The
court decided that the remedy upon the bond was exclusively
in a court of law." So they held.that the chancellor erred in
overruling the demurrer; they reversed his decree, and dismissed the bill for want of jurisdiction in the Chancery Court
to entertain it.
The 4th article, sec. 18, of the Constitution of the State of
Mississippi, provides for the establishment of the Probate
Court. Its language is, "that a Probate Court shall be established in each county of this State, with jurisdiction in all
matters testamentary and of administration, of orphains' business and the allotment bf dower, in cases of idiocy and lunacy,
and of persons non corpos mends." In construing the powers
of that court, derived from that clause of the Constitution, the
High Court of Errors and Appeals of Mississippi have repeatedly held that its jurisdiction was exclusive in reference to the
matters committed to it. And thus the Superior Court of
Chancery of said State has no jurisdiction whatever of the
subjects confided to the Probate Court. Accordingly, on a
bill filed in said Chancery Court to review, in a matter of administration, the proceedings of the Probate Court, it was
held that the Chancery Court had no jurisdiction of the case,
that it belonged exclusively to the Probate Court, and the bill
was therefore dismissed.
Blanton v. King, 2 How. Miss. R., 856.
Carmichael v. Bronder, 3 ib., 252.
Again. When the Probate Court has full jurisdiction of a

SUPREM[E COURT.
Green's Administra/rix v. Creiqhton et al.

matter. its jiudgment is final, and cannot be disturbed, unless
fraud is charged and proved.
Stubblefield v.M Raven, 5 S. and M., 130.
Jones r.Coon, ib., 751.
The utmost that a court of chancery can do is, where fraud
is charged against a settlement of an administrator in the Probate Court, to set aside the settlement made in the Probate
Court, and direct a new settlement there. Its 'jurisdiction does
not extend beyond that, as was held between the parties to
this record in 10 S. and M., 159.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The intestate of the plaintiff; as an heir of Wheeler Green,
deceased, and claiming, by assignment of the remaining heirs,
the entire estate, filed this bill against the defendant, ill his
capacity of administrator of Amos Whiting, deceased, and of
executor of the will of Jonathan MeCaleb. HI states, that
Albert Tunstall became the administrator of the estate of
Wheeler Green by the appointment of the Court of Probate of
Claiborne county, Mississippi, in 1836.; that he gave bond for
the faithful performance of his duties, with Amos Whiting as
his surety; that Tunstall received 9 large amount of property
belonging to the estate, and committed a devastavit; that in
the year 1841, his intestate summoned Tunstall before the
Probate'Court to make an account, and upon that accounting
he was found to be indebted to him, as heir, sixty-one thousand one hundred and ninety-four 76-100 dollars; which sum
he was required to pay by the decree of the court, and anthority was given to prosecute a suit on the administration
bond. The bill avers that Tunstall and Whiting, his surety.
are both dead, and that all of his other sureties are insolvent.
It charges that the defendant, Creighton,' as administrator of
Whiting, has assets-in his hands for administration, and that
a portion of the assets is in the hands of McCaleb, who is the
surety of Creighton on his bond to the Probate Court, as administrator of Whiting.
The object of the bill is to establish the claim of the intestate and his representative, arising from the judgment against

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

105

Green's Administratrix v. Creighton et al.

Tunstall and the breach of his administration bond, on which
W biting is a surety, against the administrator of Whiting and
his surety, and to obtain satisfaction from them to the extent
of the assets in their hands belonging to that estate, and for
this purpose they seek a discovery of the assets, and account
and payment.
The defendants appeared to the bill, and allege that the estate of Whiting has been regularly adminis'tered, and that
returns have been made to the Probate Court of Claiborne
county, Mississippi, of whatever property came to the hands
of the administrator, Creighton, whose character as administrator is admitted, and that he was then engaged in administering the estate under the, laws of Mississippi; that the estate had been reported to tle Probate Court as insolvent several years before this suit was instituted, and that commissioners had been appointed by that court to receive and credit
the claims; which commission was still open for the proof of
claims. They contest the validity of the judgment recovered
against Tunstall, and the truth of the account preferred against
them, and deny the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court to entertain this bill. The connection of McCaleb with the bond of
Creighton is admitted, and also that a portion of the money
of the estate of Whiting had been deposited with or lent to
him. Upon the hearing of the cause on the pleadings and
proofs, the bill was dismissed for want of jurisdiction, and by
the agreement of the parties the record has been made up so
as to present that question only. None other will, therefore,
be considered. In the organization of the courts of the United States, the remedies at common law and in equity have
been distinguished, and the jurisdiction in equity is confided
to the Circuit Courts, to be exercised uniformly through the
United States, and does not receive any modification from the
legislation of the States, or the practice of their courts having
similar powers. Livingston v. Story, 9 Pet., 632.
The judiciary act of 1789 conferred upon the Circuit Courts
authority "to take cognizance, concurrent with the courts of
the several States, of all suits of a civil nature, at common law
or in equity, where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive

SUPREME COURT.
Green's Administratrix v. Creighton et al.

of costs, the sum or value of five hundred dollars, and * * *
the suit is between a citizen of the State- where the suit is
brought, and a citizen of another State."
The questions presented for inquiry in this suit are, whether
the subject of the suit is properly cognizable in a court of
equity, and whether any other court has previously acquired
exclusive control of it. The court has jurisdiction of the parties. In the Court of Chancery, executors and administrators
are considered as trustees, and that court exercises original
jurisdiction over them, in favor of creditors, legatees, and
heirs, in reference to the proper execution of their trust. A
single creditor has been allowed to sue for his demand in
equity, and obtain a decree for payment out of the personal
estate without taking a general account of the testator's debts.
Attorney General v. Cornthwaite, 2 Cox, 43; Adams Eq., 257.
And the existence of this jurisdiction has been acknowledged
in this court, and in several of the Courts of Chancery in the
States. Hagan v. Walker, 14 fow., 29; Pharis v. 1jeachman,
20 Ala. R., 663; Spottswood v. Dandridge, 4 Munf., 289. The
answer of the defendant contains an assertion that, prior to
the filing of the bill, the estate of Whiting was reported to the
Probate Court of Claiborne county as insolvent, and thereupon that court had appointed commissioners to audit the
claims that might be presented and proved, as preparatory to
a final settlement, and that the commission was still open for
the exhibition of claims.
But of this statement there is no sufficient proof. Neither
the report nor any decretal order founded on it is contained
in the record, and the proceedings referring to one are of a
date subsequent to the filing of the bill.
The question arises, then, whether the fact of the pendency
of proceedings in insolvency in the Probate Court will oust
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States. In
Suydam v. Brodnax, 14 Pet., 67, a similar question was presented. A plea in abatement was interposed in the Circuit
Court in Alabama, in an action at law against administrators,
to the effect that the decedent's estate had been reported as
insolvent to a Court of Probate, and that jurisdiction over the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

107

Green's Administratrix v. Ureighon et a.

persons interested and the estate had been taken in that court.
This court declared that the eleventh section of the act to establish the judicial courts of the United States, carries out the
constitutional right of a citizeti of one State to sue a citizen
of another State iii the Circuit Court of .the United States.
"It was certainly intended,"'say the court, " to give to suitors
having a right-to sue in the Circuit Court remedies coextensive with those rights. These remedies would not be so, if
any proceedings under an act of a State Legislature to which a
plaintiff was not a party, exempting a person of such State
from suit, could be pleaded to abate a suit in the Circuit
Court."
In Williams v. Benedict, 8 How., 107, this court decided
that a judgment creditor in a court of the United States could
not obtain an execution and levy upon the property of an estate
legally reported as insolvent in the State of Mississippi to the
P robate Court, and which was in the course of administration
in that court. The court expressly reserve the question as to
the right of a State to compel foreign creditors, in all cases,
to seek their remedies against the estates of decedents in the
State courts alone, to the exclusion of the jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States.
The cases of Peall v. Phipps, 14 How., 368, and Bank of
Tennessee v. Horn, 17 How., 157, are to the same effect.
The case of the Union Bank v. Jolly, 18 Hbw., 503, was
that of a judgment creditor who recovered a judgment against
administrators, who subsequently reported the estate of their
decedent insolvent. After administering the estate in the
Probate Court, it was ascertained that there was a surplus in
their hands. The creditor had not made himself a party to
the settlement in the Probate Court; and the administrators
contended that his claim was barred.
ThIs was a suit in Mississippi. This court determined that
the-creditor had a lien upon the assets thus situated.
Thus it will be seen; that under the decisions of this court,
a foreign creditor may establish his debt in the courts of the
United States against the representatives of a decedent, notwithstanding the local laws relative to the administration and

SUPREME COURT.
Green's Administratrixv. CreigTton et al.

settlement of insolvent estates, and that the court will interpose to arrest the distribution of any surplus among the heirs.
What measures the courts of the United States may take to
secure the equality of such creditors in the distribution of the
assets, as provided in the State laws (if any) independently of
the administration in"the Probate Courts, cannot be considered until a case shall be presented to this court.
The remaining question to be considered is, whether the
debt described in the bill entitles a plaintiff to come into a
court of equity, under 'the cir'cumstances. It is well settled,
that no one can proceed against the sureties on an administration bond at law, who has -not recovered a judgment against
the administrator. 5 How. Miss. R., 638; 6 Port., 393. But
this rule is not founded upon the supposition that there is no
breach of the bond until a judgment is actually obtained. The
duty of the administrator arises to pay the debts when their
existence is discovered; and the bond is forfeited when that
duty is disregarded. The jurisdiction of a court of equity to
enforce the bond arises from its jurisdiction over administrators, its disposition to prevent multiplicity of suits, and its
power to adapt its decrees to the substantial justice of the
case. Moore v. Walter's Heirs, 1 Marsh. R., 488; Moore v.
Armstrong, 9 Porter, 697; Carew v. Mowatt, 2 Ed. Ch.R.,
57.
In this case, the original debtor, Tunstall, has died insolvent. Whiting, his surety, has died insolvent. A portion of
the assets belonging to the estate of the latter is in the hands
of the surety of this administrator. A discovery of the amount
and nature of the assets in hand, and their application to the
payment of the debt, are required, if they are subject to the
application.
We conclude that the Circuit Court was authorized to entertain this suit, and that the decree dismissing the bill is er-

roneous.
Decree reversed.

