SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Furphy. United States v. -Pratt.

goods were surrendered by Ross. Upon the return of such
a certificate, the court would have directed it to be put on file
with the other papers in the suit, as a voucher for the protection of Ross from further responsibility to the parties, and as
evidence that its decree in that particular had been executed.
Such a course is not merely a form, to be followed or not, as
parties to such a decree may please, but it is a cautionary
requirement, to prevent further litigation, by exactness in the
performance of a decree in equity. Iad it been observed in
this instance, this suit would not have been brought.
The instruction as given is in conformity with the decree.
Having examined every assignment of error, we shall direct
the judgment of the court below to be affirmed.

THE UNITED

STATES,

APPELLANTS, V. JAMES MURPHY.

UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS,

v.

THE

EMANUEL PRATT.

This court again decides that a claim to land in California, founded upon
",Sutter's general title," is net valid.

THESE two cases were appeals from the District Court of
the United States for the northern district of California.
The cases are stated in the opinion of the court.

They were argued by Mr. Stanton for the appellants.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellees in these suits were respectively confirmed in
their claims to land inthe valley of the Sacramento river.
Thqir' applications were made to Mi~heltorena in 1844; and
upon a reference, 4CiJptain Sutter reported that the land was
vacant. Upon the advice of the, secretary, further action was
deferred until the Governor could visit that portion of the
Department, and leave was given to the petitioner to occupy

the land until that time.
In December of that year, the "general title" to Sutter was
issued, and in 1845 or 1846, after the deposition of Michelto-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Callan et al. v. Statham et at.

rena as Governor, Sutter gave copies of that title to the petitioners. In the testimony of Sutter, in the case of Pratt, he
says "that he applied for the paper a few weeks before the couriers arrived with it; that duplicates were sent to him, and
that it was designed as a bounty to the soldiers who had served
under him, for their services in the war."
We have already expressed our opinion upon the merits of
this title in several cases, during this and the last term; and
it remains only to say that the decree of the District Court
must be reversed, and the causes remanded, with directions
to the District Court to dismiss the petition in each.

Jomx

F. CALA

AND MICHAEL P. CALLAN, APPELLANTS, V.
CHARLES W. STATHAM AND OTHERS.

Where a bill in chancery was filed to set aside a deed as being fraudulent
against creditors, and it is charged in the bill that the consideration mentioned in the deed was not paid, it is not satisfactory that the defendant relies
upon the answer that it was paid, considering the answer, which is responsive
to the bill, as evidence of the payment, when the execution of the deed is surrounded by circumstapccs of suspicion.
In the present case, the payment of the purchase money was alleged to be a
secret transaction between the vendor and vendee, and there were other circumstances attending the deed which sdrrounded it with suspicion. The evidence of payment must have been in the possession of the defendants, and
they ought to have produced it.
The title of the defendant, although encumbered, could have been made clear;
the price alleged to have been paid was inadequate; the vendor remained in
possession and collected all the rents without accounting to the vendee ; the
circumstance that the vendor was heavily in debt, and suits pending and maturing to judgment when he made the deed-all these things induce this court
not to disturb the decree of the court below, which directed the property to be
sold for the satisfaction of creditors.

Tmis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia.
The -acts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by Mr. Walter S. Cox and Ar. Daris for the

