SUPREME COURT.
Dubuue and Pacific Railroad Co. v. Litchfield.

THE

DuBuquE AND PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN
ERROR, V. EDWIN 0. LITCHFIELD.

On the 8th of August, 1846, a grant of land was made to the Territory of Iowa,
for the purpose of aiding said Territory to improve the navigation of the Des
Moines river, from its mouth to the Raccoon fork, in said Territory, one
equal moiety, in alternate sections, of the public lands (remaining unsold and
not otherwise disposed of, encumbered, or appropriated) in a strip five miles
in width on each side of said river, to be selected within said Territory by an
agent to be appointed by the Governor thereof, subject to the approval of the
Secretary of the Treasury of the United States.
On the 15th of May, 1856, Congress passed an act granting to the State of Iowa,
for the purpose of aiding in the construction of a railroad from Dubuque to
a point on the Missouri near Sioux city, every alternate section of land, designated by odd numbers, for six sections in width on each side of baid road.
The State of Iowa regranted the lands to the Dubuque and Pacific Railroad
Company.
The land in question is claimed under these two acts by the parties respectively.
The title held under the act of 1846 must prevail, provided the grant extended
to lands above the Raccoon fork.
This court has jurisdiction to construe this act in the case now before it, the
proceedings before the Executive department, extending through more than
ten years, not being sufficient either to conclude the title or to control the
construction of the act.
Those proceedings stated.
The grant was confined to lands between the mouth of Des Moines river and
Raccoon fork; that was the river to be improved, on each side of which the
strip of land granted was to lie. The historical circumstances connected with
the grant sustain this view.
All grants of this description are strictly construed against the grantees; nothing passes but what is conveyed in clear and explicit language; and as the
rights here claimed are derived entirely from the act of Congress, the donation stands on the same footing of a grant by the public to a private company, the terms of which must be plainly expressed in the statute; and if
not thus expressed, they cannot be implied.
The claimant, under the act of 1846, cannot be considered as an innocent purchaser. The act of Congress was a grant to Iowa of an undivided moiety of
the lands below Raccoon fork, and the officers of the Executive department
had no Farther authority than to make partition of those lands. Raving extended their acts to lands lying outside of the boundaries, their attempts to
make partition were merely nugatory.
The court is satisfied, from evidence before it, that this is not merely a fictitiouw
action.

.DECEMBER TEP {, 1859.

67

Dzubuque and Pacific Railroad Co. v. Litchfield.
THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the United States for the district of Iowa.
In order that the reader may the more readily understand
the question involved, he is requested to make a quasi map
for himself according to the following directions: Take a page
of paper, upon the eastern and western sides of which draw
two lines from north to south, the former representing the
Mississippi and the latter the Missouri rivers. Then draw
four parallel lines, equi-distant from each other, from east to
west, calling the southern the State line, the next above it the
"first correctionline," the third the "second correction line,"
and the fourth the "north boundary of Iowa." Then draw
a diagonal line from the northwest to the southeast corner,
which may be, supposed to represent the Des Moines river.
From the southeast corner, make.a dotted line on each side
ofT and at a small distance from, the diagonal line, as far as the
intersection with the first correctional line, at which is the
Raccoon fork, The space included within these dotted lines
is conceded to have beeii granted by the act of 1846. Con-:
tinue these dotted lines to the second correctional line, and
the space thus included will cover landswhich have been conditionally certified by the United States, and which are also
claimed under the construction of the grant of 1846, as con
tended for by the counsel of Litchfield, the defenaant in error
Continuing still further the dotted, lines to the boundary,
they will include the land which the same construction would
give to the claimants under the act of 1846, who contended
for the right of running up the river from its mouth upon both
sides of it.
Now draw two dotted lines from east to west on each side
of the second correctional line, which will include the grant
to the Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Company; and within the
space where these dotted lines clash, was the land in dispute,
viz: section one, in township eighty-eight north, range twentynine west of the fifth principal meridian. It was conceded, in
the arguilent, that Litehfield, who brought the suit, was en.
titled to recover, if the grant of 1846 ran up the river above
the Raccoon fork. The claim of the railroad company was.

-

SUPREME COURT.
Dubuque and Pac~rtc Railroad Co. v. Litchfield.

that the grant did not extend above that point; in which case,
their title to the section in controversy was undoubted. There
was an agreed statement of facts in the court below, which
covered upwards of forty pages of the record. The court
decided that the right-to the land claimed was in the plaintiff;
from which decision the railroad company brought the caso
up to this court.
It was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Plait Smith
for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Charles Mason for the
defendant. The Attorney General (Mr. Black) intervened on
behalf of the United States, upon the ground that if the grant
stopped at the Raccoon fork, it would give away 321,000
acres; whereas, if it were extended up the river, it would take
80Q,000 acres more, nearly all of which belonged to the United
States.
The Attorney General also made the following points, viz:
1. This is a fictitious suit brought here, not to determino
the rights of the nominal parties, nor to settle any real dispute
between them, but to get an opinion which will throw the
moral influence of this court against the Government in a
matter already decided by the Executive. Therefore, the case
ought to be dismissed.
2. Assuming that an actual dispute exists between the
parties, they have agreed upon a statement of facts, which is,
in some respects, palpably erroneous and unjust, and in others
so defective ttat no judgment can safety be pronounced
upon it.
3. 'If the court feel bound in such a case to give an opinion,
it will be neither necessary nor proper to pronounce upon th,
construction of the Des Moines river grant. The rights of
the parties to the section in suit depend on the conveyances
which were made to them by the State of Iowa.
4. The true interpretation of the Des Moines river grant
confines it to that part of the river which lies below the Raccoon fork, as the proper department of the Government has
decided.

DECEMBER TER{, 1859.
Dubuqu and Pacic Raizrogd Co. v. Litchfield.

Each bne of these points was elaborately argued by the
Attorney General. Uponl the three first of them, Ar. Platt
Smith, who was counsel for the defendants below, felt himself
called upon to reply, which he did as follows:
These charges are embraced in a great number of insinuatiqns and innuendoes in different parts of the Attorney General's argument. He charges that -the, agreed statement is
"entirely one-sided;" that the defendant's side of the case
occupies only the fourth of a page, while the plaintiffs side
covers forty-two pages. He says, "It is impossible to under.
stand how such a statement could have been assented to, unless
both parties were at least willing that the plaintiff's side should
prevail." Again, "It is inexcusable to sfuff it with ex parte
affidavits and unauthorized certificates of outsiders, which no
court can lawfully listen to or suffer to be intruded on its ndtice. When matter thus grossly inadmissible is put in, and
all of it is mhanifestly for the benefit of one side, it is easy to
see that the.party on the other side is not making opposition
in good faith." The court will please recollect that this is an
action of right to try title to real estate; that it is the business
of the plaintiff to make out his case; that he must depend on
the strength of his own title; and therefore that the introduction of forty-two pages of stuff "which no court can lawfully
listen to" may, in that sense of the term, be considered onesided, as charged by the Attorney General. Although, "all
of it is manifestly for the benefit of one side," yet I am entirely willing. that that side may make the most of it, and
neither the Attorney General nor any one else has the right
to impugn my motives or faith for not claiming an interest in
the stuff, or stuffing the record with an equal amount of the
same sort for my own benefit. The court will presume that 1
knew, as well as the Attorney General, that' the court could
discrinminate between the solid matter and the stuff, and that,
if no court could listen to it, there was no danger of losing the
case by it; in fact, the Attorney General is not much frightened about this point himself. In speaking of this kind of
evidence, farther along in his argument, he says, "I cannot
say for myself that I fear the effect upon your minds of such

SUPREME COURT.
Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Co. v. Litchfied.

affidavits as those of Mr. Sample or Mr. Belknap, or the certificate of 31r. Guy Wells; but when a court receives and reads
such things, those who know not what manner of men judges
are, might readily suppose the decision to be affected by them
more or less." INow, I suppose that the Attorney General
imagined that I was one of those persons who did not know
what manner of men judges are, and therefore that I supposed
they would listen to and be influenced by this stuff. I claim
to know, as well as the Attorney General, that the court will
only be governed by facts which are really pertinent to the
case. The plaintiff's counsel in the action in the District
Court, I believe, in good faith supposed that what the Attorney General calls stuff had something to do with the case; I
must confess that I thought otherwise at the time, and only
admitted such facts for what they are worth, and in doing this
I only did what is quite common. I think that a majority of
the facts contained in the records of the cases tried in the Snpreme Court of the United States are irrelevant, and might
by strict rules have been excluded as stuff. The Attorney
General says, "It is impossible not to believe that the minds
of the counsel on both sides were directed by their clients exclusively to the one subject of the claim against the United
States;" and again, "It is impossible to understand how such
a statement could have been assented to, unless both partiea
were at least willing that the plaintiff's side should prevail ; "
and again, "It is impossible that such a judgment could have
been entered under such circumstances, unless both parties
had expressed a wish that it should be done." He therefore
concludes that if these two parties did that thing, it is conclusive evidence that the suit is fictitious; and he might have
added, that bQth attorneys are guilty of conspiring to defraud
the Government out of two million dollars worth of land, and
ought to have their names stricken from the rolls, and be sent
to the penitentiary. But I say, on the contrary, that it is impossible for the court to presume, without any shadow of proof,
that the inferences and charges of the Attorney General are
true; but the court will presume that the great mass of stuff
and irrelevant matter which has been admitted into the record

DEOEMBER TERPN, 1859.
Duuque and Pacific Railroad Co. v. Litc4field.

was admitted as the same kind of stuff usually is, that it was
insisted on by one party who was sanguine and hard pushed
for evidence, and admitted by the other for the supposed reason that the court would not listen toit or b6 influenced by it.
This, I think, is the only fair inference which the court cal
draw from these facts. As to the judge of the District Court
examining the case and deciding it in one day, I will say that
if such appears to be the fact, it is an error. The case was
submitted to the district judge, who had it under advisement
for several days, though the judgment may have been entered
as on the day on which it was submitted. All judgments, I
)elieve, are in contemplation of law presumed to have been
entered on the first day of the term, though in fact they may
have been decided on several days; yet I am not aware any
inference of fraud or conspiracy can be raised from the fact
that the case was submitted and judgment rendered the same
day.
Upon the fourth point made by the Attorney General, viz:
the construction of the grant, which was, in effect, the principal point in the case, the Attorney General argued as follows:
IV. While I confess to some anxiety thatthis court, for the
sake of example, should dismiss the case without giving any
opinion about the construction of the Des Moines grant, it
shall not be said that I am unwilling to meet the point if you
shall think that it fairly and necessarily arises. I have no fears
that your opinion will be opposed to that of the department.
I will not argue it upon affidavits, nor waste words in reply to
what has been said about the desire of parties interested in
the claim to get more land than the Government thought
them entitled to. I am very willing to admit that they want
a great deal more than they got. But the question to be settled is, how much they have a right to receive.
The simple and naked question presented to the -Interior
Department Was on the construction of the first section of the
act of 1846, "that there be, and hereby is, granted to the Territory of Iowa, for the purpose of aiding said Territory to improve the navigation of the Des Moines river from its mouth
to the Raccoon fork, (so called.) in said Territory, one ?qual'

SUPREME COURT.
Dubuqe and Pacific Railroad Co.,v. Litchfield.

moiety, in alternate sections, of the public lands, (remaining
unsold and not otherwise disposed of, encumbered, or appropriated,) ia a strip five miles in width on each side of said
river, to be selected within said Territory by an agent or
agents to be appointed by the Governor thereof, subject to
the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United
States."
Does this give to the Territory one moiety of all the lands
on both sides of the river up to its source, or is the grant con-fined to the lands which lie between the fork and the mouth ?
What is the extent of this grant? How is the strip described
Within which the alternate sections of land are to be taken ?
It is described as a strip five -miles in width on each side of
said river. What river? The said river-the river before
mentioned and described-that is, the Des Moines river from
its mouth to the Raccoon fork.
There was nothing in the report of the committee, nor in
the bill itself, which could have directed the attention of Collgress to any lands above the fork, or created a suspicion in
the mind of any member that the land above the fork was
meant to be included. Indeed, there was nothing in the bill
or the report to indicate that there was any river above that
fork which was called by the name of the Des Moines. Nor
was it true as a geographical fact, that the river above the fork
was so called. A map published in 1844, only two years before the date of the law, marks the river as Keosagua or Des
Moines only to a point just above the Raccoon fork, beyond
which it is called the river of the Sioux. If the phraseology
of the statute would make the extent of the grant doubtful
under other circumstances, the fact that the river above
the fork was not called by the name of Des Mloines would
show very clearly what must have been the legislative intent
when such words were used. It seems, however, that the
persons engaged in the improvement of the Des Moines river
have changed the name of a part of it; but the alteration ot
their geography will hardly carry with it a change inan act
of Congress.
I admit that this, like every other statute, must be interpret-

DECEM:BER TERM, 1859.

73

Dubuque and Pacjiic Railroad Co. v. Litcfted.

ed (x v-isceribus suis, with the aid of such lights as may be shed
upon it by known historical and geographical facts, together
with the authority of those officers whose duty it has been to
interpret it heretofore. Where Congress has said one thing
plainly and distinctly in a law passed and enrolled, it cannot
be modified or in any nfianner changed by proof, however
clear, that the committee which reported the bill or any other
member of the body, or even all of them together, meant to
say a different thing. But when an obscurely worded law
has received a construction at the hands of those who passed
it, that construction will not be lightly set aside by any court.
So, when an officer, whose duty it is to administer and execute the law, gives an official construction of it, his opinion
is entitled to equal respect; and when the persons interested
in a different construction have acquiesced in that which the
law received from the officers, the conclusion is still more
strong and clear against any opposing view. All this has occurred in the present case.
(Then followed an examination of the acts of the executive
officer of the Government.)
If the court shall reach this part of the case, and be of opinion that the words of the grant are sufficiently ambiguous to
leave the intent of the Legislature in doubt, it will then become
necessary to determine what rule of interpretation shall be applied to it. Shall the Government or the grantee have the
benefit of the doubt? A more important question to the public treasury and the morals of the peoplehas never been determined in this court. If it be once settled that acts of this kind
are to be construed largely in favor of the parties who get
them passed, it will take millions every year, in land and
money, to satisfy claimants to whom Congress never intended
to give thousands. It is not necessary to show our respect foir
Congress by affecting to be ignorant that legislation like this
is generally procured upon the solicitation of parties interested. The public and well-known history of the country
proves that land grants have been sometimes carried by means
much worse than solicitation. Will you put it into the power
of parties to possess themselves of the public domain or the

SUPREME COURT.
Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Co. v Lichfld.

public money under grants which they themselves have shaped
so as to make them unintelligible? That would be throwing
the door wide open to the most dangerous and most demoralizing species of fraud. It would be an offer of the most enormous premium to every man whose ingenuity is great enough
to practice deception upon Congress. I have no fears that
this court will make itself responsible for the consequences
which would follow from such a rule.
I do not ask your honors to say that a strained construction
in favor of the public right should be put on any statute. Let
every grantee have what Congress gives him in words which
are tolerably plain to the apprehension of intelligent men. But
do not give, by construction, what the grant itself was not understood to convey. There is no hardship in this. When a
legislative body means to give anything, the words can easily
be found to express that meaning. It does not happen once
in a thousand times that the language of a grant construed
strictly carries less than the Legislature is willing to bestow.
The general rule is so well established, that to cite the
authorities would look like an affectation of case hunting.
Public grants must be construed strictly against the grantee.
All Governments are obliged to make this a maxim of their
jurisprudence; otherwise, they could not protect themselves
against the impostures which would be continually practiced
on their officers and agents. Is there anything in a land grant
made by Congress for the benefit of a local improvement
which should take it out of the rule? No. Of all public
grants, these should be looked after with the greatest caution.
I trust the court will at least leave them within the principle
which governs other grants of a like nature.
But even if you were disposed to repudiate the general rule,
or change it so as to give a public grantee the benefit of a
reasonable doubt, what could he take by such a doubt as this?a doubt which has no countenance in the law itself-a doubt
which the authors of the grant never dreamed of-a doubt
which did not enter the heads of the grantees themselves until
it was suggested by a loosely-written and ill-considered letter
from the Land Office-a doubt so dim that it was not seen by

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

75

Dubuque and Pacffc Railroad Co. v. Litchfield.

the State of Iowa, nor any of her agents, while they were accepting the law with a construction which confined them to
its words-a doubt which was steadily repelled by nearly all
the officers of this Goverment, and never entertained by any
long enough to be acted on. Doubts may do good service
sometimes, but not such doubts as this.
The reporter can only make room for Mr. Mason's argument
upon the construction of the grant, which was as follows:
We hold that the plain language of the act itself is sufficient
to settle this question conclusively in his favor. It grants
"one equal moiety in alternate sections of the public lands,
(remaining unsold and not otherwise disposed of, encumbered,
or appropriated,) in a strip five miles in width on each side of
said river."
It is true that, in defining the object of the grant, the law
declares it to be for the purpose of aiding to improve the Des
Moines river, from its mouth to the Raccoon fork; and the
conclusion is thence drawn by some, that the grant itself was
intended to extend no higher than the latter point. But I
submit whether such a conclusion can be reached by any
sound rule for the interpretation of statutes.
When we speak in general terms of the Des Moines river.
we mean the whole river, and not a portion of it. In defining
the puwpose of the grant, a limited portion of the river is expressly mentioned. But in fixing the limit of the grant, the
river itself is named, without restriction or qualification. How
shall it then be said that a part, and not the whole of the
river, was intended?
The Des Moinjes river was, in 1846, a well-known stream
Several years previous to that time, a thorough exploration of
the country which includes the valley of that river had been
made by Mr. Nicollet, under the direction of the Topographical Bureau. The report and map made by him were published by the authority of Congress in 1843, and contained the
latest and most authentic information which was in the possession of Congress at the. time that this act was passed. In
that report, Mr. Nicollet says.

SUPREME COURT.
Dubuque aw7 Parific Railroad Co. v. Litchfeld.

"The Des Moines empties into the Mississippi in 40' 2'
latitude N., and its sources, heretofore supposed to be in 430,
are extended on my map to 44' 3' N."
See -Senate Document No. 237, of the 2d session 26th
Congress, page 23.
The map which accompanied this report represents the river
as taking its rise far above the north line of the present State
of Iowa, (which is the parallel of 430 30' N.,) and corresponds
with the report.
The report of Mr. McClernand shows that the committee
which reported this bill had the report and map of Mr. Nicollet before it, and that their report was made in accordance
therewith.
Here, then, we have the source and the mouth of this river
definitely fixed. Its whole course is distinctly shown in a
report and map prepared by a public officer, and published by
the authority of Congress only three years previous to the passage of this act; an l with all this information before them,
they declare that the grant shall embrace the alternate sections
in a strip five miles in width on each side of the river. Is there
the least ambiguity or doubt as to their meaning?
In 1856, in an act of Congress granting lands to the State of
Iowa, to aid in the construction of certain railroads, the following language is used:
"Be it enacted, ft., That there be, and is hereby, granted to
the State of Iowa, for the purpose of aiding in the construction of railroads from Burlington, &c., [specifying four different roads,] every alternate section of land designated by odd
numbers, for six sections in width, on each side of said roads."
Statutes at Large, vol. 11, page 9.
Now, it has never been doubted that the land granted by
this act extended throughout the whole length of each road,
respectively. And yet, the language employed in limiting
these grants is substantially the same as that used in fixing
the extent of the Des Moines river grant. The alternate sections, for six miles in width on each side of said roads, are
granted without declaring that this grant should extend
throughout the entire length of each of those roads. The

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Co. v. Litchfield.

same rule of -construction which has been applied to the railroad grants would render this grant coextensive with the
entire river. In-fact, there is even a stronger reason for such
a construction in this case than in that. The river was a fixed
object in nature, mapped out and described before the grant
was made. Congress knew, with much more precision, what
they were granting, than thoulgh they had becen appropriating
lands for the construction of riilroads then unlocated, and the
precise length and direction of which they could not foresee.
In such circumstances, when lands within five miles of the
Des Moines river are mentioned, who is authorized to say that
only those below the Raccoon fork are meant? The Legis
lature has fixed no such limit. Can the courts prescribe one?
But, by way of heaping measure, and as if to place.the matter beyond all reasonable doubt, Congr~ess has fixed another
restriction upon the extent-of this giant. The land must be
.selected within the then -Territory of Iowa. The first restriction prevented us from talking lands more than five miles from
the river; the second confines us within the Territory. On
the principle involved in the maxim, "expressio unius est exclusio alterius," each of these restrictions adds strength to the conclusion that there are no other restrictions unexpressed. "As
exception strengthens the force of a law in cases not excepted,
so, according to Lord Bacoi , enumeration weakens it in cases
not enumerated."'
Dwarris on Statutes, page 605.
In fact, a prohibition of one thing often involves an actual permission to do what is not thus prohibited. Thus, the constitutional provision which prevents Congress from interfering with
the slave trade prior to 1808 has.always been regarded as giving authority t6 prohibit it after that period. In like manner.
the limitation which restricts us to the Territory of Iowa, in
the selection oflands, is, in effect, an authority to select the
alternate sections within five ihiles of the whole length of the
river, wherever such land can be found within any portion
of that Territory.
In the construction of a statute, we must endeavor to give
a definite meaning to every word and expression found there-

SUPREME COURT.
Dubuque and Pac!3Wc Rairoad Co. v. Litdckfied.

in. The fair and natural import of the terms employed is to
govern in construing the law, and where a clear intelligible
meaning can be gathered from those terms, we are not to look
beyond them to fancy some unexpressed intent.
In Denn v. Reid, (11 Peters, 524,) the question turned uporn
the validity of a deed given for lands to which the Indian title
was not extinguished. By an act of the Legislature, deeds of
this description were declared valid, provided they were
proved by one or more subscribing witnesses thereto, before
any one of certain officers mentioned in the act. This deed
had not been so proved, but it was acknowledged by the
grantor himself before one of these very officers. It was contended that, as an acknowledgment vas more conclusive and
satisfactory than any proof by subscribing witnesses could
possibly be, this deed came within the spirit and intent of the
law.
The court admitted that the intention- of the Legislature
was probgbly such as was thus contended for, but the language of the statute did not justify such a construction. They
say:
"Where the language of an act is not clear, or is of doubtful construction, a court may well look at every part of the
statute, as its title, and the mischief intended to be remedied
in carrying it into efect. But it is not for the court to say,
where the language of the statute is clear, that it shall be so
construed as to embrace cases, because no good reason can be
assigned why they were excluded from its provisions."
ISuch is the doctrine adopted by this court, and by a like
rule we wish the present case to be determined. We need
(as we think) only read this statute, with an unprejudiced wish
to arrive at its meaning from the natural import of the language alone, to be satisfied that, for the purpose of aiding to
improve the Des Moines river as high up as the Raccoon fork,
it was the evident intention of Congress to grant the alternate
sections, in a strip five miles in width, on each side of said
river, from its mouth to its source, so far as such land could
be found within the limits of.the then Territory of Iowa.

But it is said that all grants of this nature are obtained upon

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

79

Dubuque and Paciflc Raffroad Co. v. Litchfeld.

the plausible plea that the reserved sections will be doubled in
value, which can only be done when the grant is coextensive
with the improvement. If that were even generally true,
there is reason to believe that the present case was an intended
exception. In other. cases, where alternate sections are granted
to aid in making an improvement, the minimum price of the
reserved sections has been doubled. That was not done in
the present instance. The natural inference is, that Congress
was satisfied that the reserved sections in this case would not
be doubled in value, as they lay mostly along the river, far
above the improvement.
But it seems to be thought that there is, at least, an impropriety in granting lands for public improvements, except where
the property of the Government is to be benefited therebythat in such cases the lands granted should be along or adjacent to the improvements to be made, or should be coextensive therewith, and that-such a practice is so proper, and has
become so far the settled policy of the Government, that it will
in a great degree control the meaning of the statute. There
may be a fitness in such a rule, but has it become a settled
policy? Can it change the plain meaning of the statute?
Can it make the law?
It is true, that such a rule has in various instances been applied to canal and railroad grants, but I know of no instance
in which it has been applied to river improvements, unless the
present grant is one.
On the very day upon which this Des Moines river grant was
passed, a similar grant was made to Wisconsin, "to aid in the
improvement of the Fox and Wisconsin rivers, and to connect
the same by a canal." For this purpose there was granted
by that law the one-half of three sections in width, "on each
side of the said Fox river and the lakes through which it
passes from its mouth to the point where the Portage canal
shall enter the same, and on each side of said canal from one
stream to the other-reserving the alternate sections to the
United States-to be selected under the direction of the Governor of said State, and such selection to be approved by the
President of the United States,"

SUPR{EME COURT.
Dubuque and 1Bacfilc Railroad Co. v. Lc_

fieLd.

Statutes at Large, vol. 9, p. 83.
Now, here was, a case in which Congress only intended tc
grant the land along the Fox river just as far as the improvement was to be made, and not to its source. With what precision have they expressed that intent? How different from
the language of the Iowa grant, made on the same day!
But it was a grant made for the improvement of the Fox
and Wisconsin rivers, and for connecting them by a canal;
and still the grant extends only along one of those rivers and
the canal which is to connect them, but trot along the other
river. The supposed policy of the Government in such cases,.
is as much disregarded by making the grant less in extent
than the improvement as by making it greater. The same
argument that would limit our grant to the Raccoon fork
would extend theirs along the whole length of the Wisconsin
river, from the point where the Portage canal shall enter it to
its mouth. Would such a construction of that law meet with
any favor from the Government or from this court? If an
idea of fitness or policy is not permitted to enlarge a grant,
will it be allowed to diminish one? Should not the rule be
reciprocal ?
Again, in 1852, Congress granted seven hundred and fifty
thousand acres of land to the State of Michigan for the improvenient of the St. Mary's river, by constructing a canal
around the rapids therein. These lands were "to be selected
in subdivisions, agreeably to the United States surveys, by an
agent or agents to be appointed by the Governor of said State.
subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, from
any lands within said State subject to private entry."
Statutes at Large, vol. 10, p. 35.
Here, also, there was no correspondence in extent between
the improvement and the grant. These are the only cases of
grants of land for river improvements (except our own) that
have fallen under my observation. At all events, they are
sufficient to do away with the idea of the supposed established
policy as connected with such grants.
It may be said that a departure from this rule was absolutely necessary in the case of the Michigan grant, as the cost was

DECEMBER' TERM, 1859.
Dubuque and B'ac fc Railroad Co. v. Litchfield.

so great, in proportion to the length of the improvement, that
a sufficient amount of land could not otherwise be obtained.
The same necessity, though not so great in degree, existed in
relation to the Iowa grant, as is proved by the fact shown in
the record, that, after having expended all the land below the
Raccoon fork, and a still larger amount lying above that point,
the work is yet far from being completed.
But, if the circumstances of the case did not amount to a
necessity, they at least showed a manifest propriety, of not
following the rule suggested. The river was navigable, for a
portion of the year, far above the Raccoon fork.
The land along the river would therefore be enhanced it
value, by the contemplated improvement, far above its upper
terminus. The completion-of the improvement to the Raccoon
tork would have added greatly to the value of all the land for
an indefinite distance above that point; and the Government
was acting like a prudent and just proprietor in contributing to
that improvement by granting the alternate sections through
a limited portion of the region thus benefited.
Again, the land, 'for thirty or forty miles above the mouth
of the Des Moines, was not to contribute an acre to the improvement, though much money was to be expended on that
very portion of the river. On the one side of that part of the
stream was the State of Missouri, and the land was therefore
excluded from being taken by the very terms of the grant;
and on the other side was the half-breed tract, in the State of
Iowa, and was private property, as will appear from the treaty
of 1824 and the act of Congress of June 30, 1834.
See Statutes at Large, vol. 7, p. 229, and vol. 4, p. 470.
Besides, a considerable portion of the land between the
half-breed tract and the Raccoon fork had been sold by the
United States prior to 1846; so that, at the date of the pas,ge of this law, there was but little more than one-half the
amount of land below the Raccoon fork to be affected by
the grant, which it would have embraced had the alternate
sections throughout this portion of the river been subject to
the terms of the grant. There was only three hundred and
twenty-one thousand acres left to be transferred to the State,
VOL._XXIII.

6

SUPREME COURT.
Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Co. v. Lilchfield.

undei this grant below the Raccoon fork; whereas the amount
of six sections to the mile, for the whole of that distance,
would have composed an aggregate of more than five hundred
and eighty-seven thousand acres.
This deficiency of two hundred and sixty-six thousand acres,
situated below the Raccoon fork, would probably at that time
have been of more value than the whole nine hundred thousand acres, which were, as we contend, granted above that
point, and which were to be received in lieu thereof. In railroad grants, it is the custom to allow the alternate sections to be
taken for fifteen miles on each side of the road, to make up
for any deficiency like the present. Instead of increasing the
breadth of the grant for that purpose in this instance, a suitable addition has been made to its length.
Now it might be, from a sense of fitness, that those lands
higher up and along the river were taken in place of those
which were wanting below, or it might be only an arbitrary
way of fixing upon what was deemed a suitable quantity of
land, or it might be from some other motive on the part of
Congress, that this rule was adopted. Whatever the reason
migLt have been, is wholly.immaterial. It is enough that the
grant was made in those terms.
What we have been contending for is, that in the construction of this statute the court should confine itself to the language of the law. The principle which has been sanctioned
by this court justifies us in insisting upon such a rule. In
the case of the Paulina's Cargo v. the United States, 7 Crauch,
60, Chief Justice Marshall says:
"In construing these laws, it has been truly stated to be the
duty of the court to effect the intention of the Legislature.
But this intention is to be searched for in the words-which the
Legislature has employed to convey it."
And again, in the United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 390:
" Where rights are infringed, where fundamental principles
are overthrown, where the general principle of the law is departed from, the -legislative intention must be expressed with
irresistible clearness to induce a court of justice to suppose a
design to effect such objects. But where only a political regu-

DECEMDBER TERM, 1859.

83

Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Co. v. LiOc4id.

lation is made, which is inconvenient, if the intention of the
Legislature be expressed in terms which are sufficiently intelligible to leave no doubt in the mind where the words are
taken in their ordinary sense, it would be going a great way
to say that a constrained interpretation must be put upon
them to avoid an inconvenience which ought to have been
contemplated in the Legislature when the act was passed, and
which, in their opinion, was probably overbalanced in the
particular advantages it was calculated to produce."
We respectfully submit whether the present is a case which
justifies a strained construction of the statute. Must not
something more than a mere inconvenience or a departure
from a supposed rule of fitness be necessary to justify a disregard of the ordinary rule of construction in accordance with
the fair import of the language used?
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The land in controversy lies within five .miles of the Des
Moines river, and within the limits of what was the Iowa Territory when the act of Congress of.1846 was passed, making
the grant to improve the .navigation of the Des Moines river
fron its mouth to the Raccoon fork; but'the land sued for
lies nearly sixty miles above the mouth of that fork.
Litchfield, the plaintiff below, claims by virtue of a title derived from the State of Iowa, acting as trustee of the Des
Moines river fund.
The Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Company is in possession of the section of land, under a grant from Congress for the
purpose of constructing a railroad from Dubuque, on the Mississippi river, to a point on the Missouri river near Sioux city.
This grant was made to the State of -Iowa in 1856, and is for
every alternate section, (designated by odd numbers,) for six
sections in width on each side of the road. The road was
located, the lands designated by the United States, and accepted by Iowa; and then they were transferred to the railroad company by the Legislature of that State. The section
in dispute is one of those vested in the railroad company.
This is the younger and inferior title, if the first grant for ima-

SUPREME CO URT.
Dubupc and Pacic Railroad Co. v. Lilcfleld.

proving the river extends along its whole length; and the material question in this case is, whether the grant made by the
act of Congress of August 8th, 1846, for the river improvement, is limited to lands lying next the river, and below the
Raccoon Fork. And although this depends on a true construction of the act, still it becomes necessary to give a brief
historical statement of the proceedings before the Executive
department respecting this claim, extending through more
than ten years; these proceedings being relied on, either to
conclude the title, or to control the construction of the act of
Congress.
They are as follows: By the act of Congress approved August 8th, 1846, a grant of land was made to the Territory of
Iowa "for the purpose of aiding said Territory to improve the
navigation of the Des Moines river from its mouth to the Raccoon fork, in said Territory, one equal moiety, in alternate
sections, of the public lands (remaining unsold and not otherwise disposed of, encumbered, or appropriated) in a strip five
miles in width on each side of said river, to be selected within
said Territory, by an agent to be appointed by the Governor
thereof, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States."
The 4th section of that act provides that the lands shall become the property of the State of Iowa on her admission into
the Union, which was very soon expected to occur. The
Governor of Iowa was notified by the Commissioner of the
General Land Office of this act, soon after its passage, viz:
October 17, 1846, by letter, in which it is stated that, "under
the grant, the Territory is entitled to the vacant lands,. in
alternate -sections, within five miles on each side of the Des
Moines river, from the-horthern boundary of Missouri to the
Raccoon fork."
No objection to this construction was then made by the
State authorities, and the agent of the State proceeded to
make the selections within the limits above stated.
No question as to the extent of this grant arose until nearly
two years after. It appears, however, that a letter dated February 23d, 1848, from Commissioner Young, did not adhere

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

85

Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Co. v.. Zitchfield.

to 'the res.frittions .mentioned in thefirst- letter, but its terms
seemed to concede to it a greater extent. And in 1849 this
question was brought to the attention of the Secretary of the
Treasury, by the deleg4tion of the State in Congiess; they
claiming that the State was entitled to land along the whole
course of the river to its source. In reply, (March 2d, 1849,)
the Secretary, Mr. Walker, expresses an opinion that the
"grant extends on both sides of the river from its source to
its mouth, but not into lands on the river in the State of Missouri." This opinion conceded that nine hundred thousand acres
above the Raccoon fork was within the grant. In conformity with this view of Mr. Walker, selections of
lands above the fork were reported by the Coimmissi6ner, of
the General Land Office, for confirmatipn, to the Secretary of
the Interior, Mr. Ewing; the supervision of-the public lands
having passed from the Treasury to the Interior -Department.
Mr. Ewing, upon the ground that the opinion of Mr. Walker
had not been carried into effect, held that-the same was open
for revision', and not concurring therein 'refused to approve
the selections. But, as Congress was .then in session, and
might, "extend the grant," ordered a suspension of action in
the matter.
From this decision of Mr. Ewing an appeal was taken in
1850 to the President, by whom the matter was referred. to
the Attorney General, Mr. Johnson, who, in his opinion of
July 19, 1850, construed the grant as extending above the
Raccoon 'fork.
No action appears to have been taken under this opinion of
Mr. Johnson; and the'question remained open at the accession
,f-the next President, Mr. Fillmore, when it was submitted to
the Attorney General, Mr. Crittenden, who, on the 30th June,
1851, replied that the letter of Mi.Walker had no linding efect on his' successor, being but an opinion expressed, not an
act done; that the opinions of Attorney Generals are merely
advisory; and that the grant, in hisiopinion, was limited to
the lands below the -fork. In this opinion-it appears that Mr.
Stuart (then Secretary of the Interior) concurred; but afterwards, on the 29th October, 1851, he addressed the Commis.

SUPREME COURT.
-Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Co. v. LitcJfield.

sioner of the General Land Office on the subject, and directed
the selections above the Raccoon fork to be reported for his
approval, for the reasons and upon the conditions therein
stated, viz: "that the question involved partakes more of a
judicial than of an executive character, which must ultimately
le determined by the judicial tribunals of the country." In
conformity with this decision, lists of lands above the fork
were submitted by the Commissioner in October, 1851, and
March, 1852, and approved by Mr. Stuart in accordance with
the .views expressed in his letter of the 29th October, 1851.
Acting under this authority, the Commissioner, in 1853, submitted lists to Secretary McClelland also, which were approved. The subject was again brought before the Secretary
of the Interior in 1856, and by him referred to Attorney General Cushing. Mr. Cushing, in his reply of 29th May, 1856,
advised that a proposition set forth by him be submitted to
the State for a final adjustment of the matter. This proposition
was not accepted by the State; and in 1858 the subject was
laid before Attorney General Black, whose opinion clearly restricted the grant to the river below the Raccoon fork; that
being in accordance with the construction originally given to
it at the General Land Office. On mature consideration, we
are of opinion that the title of neither party has been affected
by the proceedings in the Land Office, or by the opinions of
the officers of the Executive department, but that the claims
of the parties under the two acts'of Congress must be determined by the construction to be given to those acts. This we
are required to do in deciding this cause.
The caption of the act of 1846 informs us that the donation
was made to aid in the improvement of the navigation "of
the Des Moines river; " and the body of it grants to th4 Territory ;and Statd) alternate sections, to improve the navigation
"of the Des Moines river, from its mouth to the Raccoon fork,"
in a strip five miles in width' on each side of "said river."
And we are further told, (section 3d,) that "the said river Des
Moines shall forever remain a public highway for the use of
the Government of the United States, free from any toll or

other charge whatever for any property of the United States,

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Dubuque and Paciflc Railroad Co. v. Litchfield.

or persons in their service, passing through or along the
same.
What navigable river was to be improved, and was in the,
contemplation of Congress in 1846,°when the northern portion
of Iowa was a wilderness? Surely not the small streams and
brooks reaching into Minnesota Territory, as is here claimed.
Congress recognised the Des Moines river, over which a free
passage was secured, to be a stream emptying into the Mississippi; and from its mouth to the Raccoon fork was the "said
river," on each side of which the strip of land granted was to lie.
As proof of which; we refer to the following facts: The bill
was introduced into the House of Representatives by Mr.
Dodge, the Delegate from Iowa Territory, and was the subject
of a report by the Committee on Public Lands, which report
is a document in the case agreed, and the facts therein stated
are admitted. Among these facts, it appears (by a previous
report of Captain Fremont, who had officially explored the
Des Moines river) that from its mouth to the Raccoon fork
was two hundred and three miles; that it presented no obstacles to navigation that could not be overcome, at a slight expense, by the removal of loose stones at some points, and the
construction of artificial banks at some few others, so as to
destroy the abrupt bends, and that this was all that would be
requiied to render it navigable; that the variable nature of
the bed and the velocity of the current would keep the channel constantly clear.
The committee's report states that the country is occupied
and cultivated as high up as the Raccoon fork; and that a
clear and uninterrupted navigation could :be secured at an
expenditure not great when compared with the object; that
the land appropriated by the bill is similar in its charactet and
object to many grants already made by Congress for other
Western Territories and States, and at the same time less in
quantity; but it is believed- that it will be sufficient to accomplish the desired improvement; and as evidence of this, Captain Fremont's statement is relied on. The committee was,
however, of the opinion, that locks and dams might he required at some of the ripples.

SUPREME COURT.
Dubuque and PRzcfc Railroad Co. v. Litchfeld.

Accompanying this report, and as a part of it, is a letter
from the Commissioner of the General Land Office, obtained
by Mr. Dodge, i(dated May 5th, 1846,) in which it is officially
stated, "That the amount of unsold land within five miles on
each side of the Des Moines river, from its mouth to the Raccoon fork, proposed to be granted to th'e Territory of Iowa by
House bill No. 106, is estimated at 261,000 acres." The bill
No. 106, as reported, was passed into the law before us.
When we carry with us the fact that the 261,000 acres of land
were surveyed, and the plats recorded in the General Land
Office, to which surveys the Commissioner's letter referred, it
is plain that the river, from its mouth to the Raccoon fork,
was, in the view of Congress, as manifestly as if the outlines
of the tract (or strip) had been given by a plan in connection
with the river. Of this we have no doubt; but if we had
doubts from any obscurity of the act of Congress, a settled
rule of construction would determine the controversy. All
grants of this description are strictly construed against the
grantees; nothing passes but what is conveyed in clear and
explicit language; and as the rights here claimed are derived
entirely from the act of Congress, the donation stands on the
same footing of a grant by the public to a private company,
the terms of which must be plainly expressed in the statute;
and if not thus expressed, they cannot be implied. Charles
River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Peters, 420.
concur with the following citation and reasoning of the
plaintiff's counsel, to wit: Lord Ellenborough, in his judgment in Gildart v. Gladstone, 1 East., 675, (an action for
Liverpool dock dues,) says: "If the words would fairly admit
of different meanings, it would be right to adopt that which is
more favorable to the interest of the public, and against that
of the company, because the company, in bargaining with the
public, oght to take care to express distinctly what payments
they are to receive, and because the public ought not to be
charged unless it be clear that it was so intended."
"The reason of the above rule is obvious-parties seeking
grants for private purposes usually draw the bills making them.
If they do not make the language sufficiently explicit and

) ECEMBER TERM, 1859.

89

Dubugue and Pacfic Railroad Co. v. Litchfpl.d.

clear to pass everything that is intended to be passed, it is
their awn fault; while, on the other hand, such a construction
has a tendency to prevent parties from inserting ambiguous
language for the purpose of taking, by ingenious interpretation and insinuation, that which cannot be obtained by plain
and express terms."
The second ground relied on in support of Litchfield's title
is, that he-is an innocent purchaser from the State of Iowa of
land conceded to belong to the improvement fund by the
officers-and agents of the United States; and having been
certified as part of the grant, and as being one of the odd sections belongi4g to Iowa, the principal is bound by the acts of
his agents, and that these binding acts cannot be revoked at
the pleasure of the Secretary of the Interior, as is here assumed
to be done.
We have set forth the proceedings on this claim, and hdve
already expressed the opinion, that the courts of justice are
not concluded by them. The principal reason, however, why
the conveyance' to Litchfield, upder the river improvement
grant, cannot be upheld, is this: The act of Congress was a
direct grant to Iowa in fee of an undivided moiety of the
whole tract lying on each side of the river from the Raccoon
fork to the Missouri lbe. Congres§ had the undoubted power
to make the grant and vest the fee.
.Io authority was conferred on the Executive officers administering the public lands to do more than make partition
between the tenants in common, Iowa and the United States,
in the manner prescribed by the act of Congress.
The premises in dispute lie sixty miles beyond the limits
of the tract granted; it was therefore impossible to make partition, under this grant, of lands lying outside of its boundaries;
and all attempts to do so were merely nugatory. It follows
that the plaintiff below has ,jo title, and his action must fail.
The Attorney General has intervened, and insists that this
action is a mere fiction, and was intended to draw from this
court an opinion, affecting the rights of the United States and
others, the parties to this suit having nothing at stake, and
that the case-should be dismissed.

SUPREME COURT.
Green's Administratrix v. Creighton et al.

To meet this imputation of contrivance, the parties and
their counsel have filed affidavits and statements, from which
it satisfactorily appears that the action was brought by a bona
fide claimant under the grantee of the river improvement fund
against the railroad company; and although the case agreed
was made up in a friendly spirit, nevertheless the object was
to try the title, and tbis was done at the instance of some of
the Executive officers.
If the judgment of the District Court were affirmed, the
defendant below would lose the land; and it being reversed,
the plaintiff below loses it. The action was obviously brought
to carry out Secretary Stuart's suggestion, when he said,
"That the question involved partakes more of a judicial than
an executive character, and must ultimately be determined by
the judiial tribunals of the country."
We have therefore felt hound to hear and decide the cause
on its merits; and finding that the plaintiff below has no
title, we direct that the judgment of the District Court be
reversed, and the cause remanddd; and that court is ordered
to enter judgment for the defendant below.

DANIEL GREEN'S ADMINISTRATRIX V. FLETCHER CREIGHTON, IN
HIS OWN RIGHT, AND AS EXECUTOR OF JONATHAN McCALEB
DECEASED.
The courts of the United States, as courts of equity, have jurisdiction over ex
ecutors and administrators, where the parties to the suit are citizens of differeut States, and this jurisdiction is not barred by subsequent proceedings in
insolvency in the Probate Court of a State.
In such a case, the courts may interpose iu favor of a foreign creditor, to arrest
the distribution of any surplus of the estate of a decedent among the heirs.
&though at law a creditor cannot sue the surety upon an administration bond
until he has obtained a judgment against the administrator,,yet it is not so in
equity; and in the present case, where the original debtor and his surety are
both dead, insolvent, and a porti n of the assets of the estate of'the latter can
be traced to the possession of' his administrator and his surety, the pbwer of
a court of equity is required to call for a discovery of the amount and nature
of the assets in hand.

