DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Day et al. v. Washburn et a7.

proper measures to keep out of the way, and her efforts were
counteracted and defeated by the sailing vessel, and a collision
forced upon the steamboat by the incapacity and misconduct
of those iTcharge of the Perrin, I cannot think that the
steamboat 3hould be charged with any part of the damage
which the sailing vessel brought upon itself. Those who
intrust their property on the water to incompetent hands have
no just right to complain of disasters, and claim indemnity for
losses arising altogether from the incapacity and unfitness of
those to whom they have confided it, and still less have Gory
and Miles, whose incapacity and misconduct were the sole
cause of disaster.
And entertaining this view of the controversy, I dissent
from the judgment of the court.

GEoRaE W. DAY, BOWEN MATLOCK, ISAAC H. FROTHINGHAM,
AND GEORGE W. WARNER, APPELLANTS, V. WILLIAm A.
WASHBURN AND JOHN A. KEITH.
Where a motion was made to dismiss an appeal, upon the ground that the appeal
was taken by part only of the complainants below, and that the other complainants had not been made and were not parties to the appeal; and it appeared
from the record that a fund had been decreed bythe court below to be distributed
ratably amongst two classes of creditors, one of which was composed of judgment creditors, and the other of those who had come in after the filing of a
creditor's bill; and the first
class only conceived themselves aggrieved by the
decree admitting the others to a ratable proportion, and therefore became
the appellants; this court will, in such a state of things, refuse'the-motion to
dismiss and reverse this, together with all other points to be decided, when
the case shall come up fbr argument hereafter.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Indiana.
A motion was made by Albert G. Porter, as amicus curix,
to dismiss the appeal, because the appeal was taken by part
only of the complainafits below, and that the other compjainants have not been made and are not parties to said appeal.
The authorities cited were the following:

SUPREME COURT.
Day et d. v. Washburn d a.

A writ of error was brought by Mary Deneale and others,
as plaintiffs. The court say, "who the others are cannot be
known to the court, for their names are not given in the writ
of error, as they ought to be. Mary Deneale alone cannot
maintain a writ of error on this judgment, but all the parties
must be joined, and their names set forth, in order that the
court may proceed to give a proper judgment in the case."
Writ of error dismissed for irregularity.
Deneale v. Archer, 8 Peters, 526.
Smyth v. Strader, 12 How., 327.
-The writ of error did not contain the names of the parties
to the judgment set out in the record.
Cause dismissed.
"If a writ of error be brought in the names of several parties, and any one or more of them refuse to appear .and assign
errors, they must be summoned and severed, after which the
writ of error may be proceeded in by the rest alone."
2 Tidd., 1135.
Mr., Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
Albert G. Porter, Esquire, a counsellor of this court, and
who was concerned as counsel in the court below for cerain
petitioners, claiming an interest in the matter in controversy
adversely to the appellants, asked to be permitted, as amicus
curim, to move for the dismissal of this appeal, alleging for cause
that it had been irregularly brought to this court, in this particular, that the appeal had been taken only by a part of the
complainants, and that such of them as had been omitted were
not parties to the appeal.
The record discloses the following facts:
The appellants filed in the Circuit Court a bill to set aside,
as fraudulent, a conveyance of property, and to, subject it to
the payment of their 3laims against William A. Washburn,
and associated with him as a defendant John A. Keith, the
grantee of the conveyance. The bill was separately answered
by Washburn and Keith, and proceedings were had in the
case, until at December term, in 1858, the issue was made up,
upon bill, answer, replication, and exhibits. At that term of

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

311

Day et aZ. v. W'ashburn et a7.

the court, December 21, 1858, a number of persons, claiming
also to be creditors of Washburn, filed a petition by their
counsel, Hall, McDonald, and Porter, praying to be made
parties to the bill, as complainants, and to be permitted to
share in such distribution as might be made out of the property charged to have been fraudulently conveyed by Washburn to Keith, in the event of the courts decreeing that it had
been so done, and that it was liable for the payment of Washburn's creditors. The court directed these petitioners to be
made parties to the bill of the appellants, as complainants, and
under that order the decree now appealed from was made.
But before the decree was rendered, the cause was referred
to a master, to report the sums due to the creditors, as they
wore then appearing to be so in the original bill and other,
proceedings of the cause. It was done. Subsequently a decree was rendered, declaring Washburn's conveyance to Keith
void and fraudulent. In consequence of it, a large sum was
made out of the property and deposited in court for distribution. And the court decreed that it should be ratably distributed between the appellants and those ther creditors of
Washburn who by its" orders had been made parties to the
original bill It is from this decree that the appellants have
brought the case to this court. They had insisted, before the
court rendered its decree, that, being the original complainants, they were entitled to have their claims paid in full, and
'that the remainder of the fund might then be Alistributed, in
the discretion of the court, pro rata, amongst the other creditors of Washburn. But the court oveiruled' the motion, and
ordered the money to be paid ratably to the creditors. It is
from this decision and decree that this appeal has been brought,
so as to have it decided, whether, in the- particular just mentioned, it is not erroneous.
It also appears that the appellants were judgment creditors
of Washburn when they filed their bil to set aside his deed
to Keith, and that tle other creditors, who have been made
participants in the fund to be distributed, are not so. And we
gather from the proceedings in the cause, that their applica-.
tion to be made parties to the original bill was with the yiew

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Noe.

to defeat the appellants of any legal or equitable priority which
they may have acquired for the payment of their claims over
the other creditors, either from their being judgment creditors,
or from their vigilance in first filing a bill to set aside the conveyance from Washburn to Keith. We do not mean now to
decide those points upon this motion, nor any other point
connected with the merits of this controversy. All such points
will claim the attention of the court upon the argument of the
case hereafter. The record clso suggests an inquiry, whether
those persons who were madeoparties to the original bill, and
who have become by the decree of the court participants in
the fund to be distributed, were ncessary parties to the bill,
6r were allowably so, in their then attitude in respect to their
claims against Washburn. And in no other way can the
question of right between themselves and these appellants in
the fund be reached4 for the former, having accomplished their
purpose, for which they were made parties, are neither willing
to appeal from the decree nor to be considered as parties to this
-appea.
The record, indeed, suggests many points connected with
the real merits- of the controversy, and others in respect to
proper pleadings in equity, which cannot be considered and
determined upon a motion to dismiss the appeal summarily
for any irregularities in the process by which it has been
brought to this court. We therefore refuse the motion for
the dismission of the appeal, allowing it, however, to be
brought to the notice of the court again, when the case shall
be a-.gued upon its merits.
This- course has often been taken by this court upon a motion to dismiss a case, for irregularities in- the appeal or writ
-of error, similarly circumstanced as this is.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS,

V. JAMES NOE.

Where a grant of land in CaliforniS was made in 1841, under the colonization
laws; which looked to the settlement and improvement of the country, and
eleven years elapsed, during which time the applicant t. -c no step toward.

