DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

2V'

Haney et al. v. Baltimore Steam Packe Company.

character to show any right or title in the land under the
Mexican Government, or any equity in the claimant, under
the act of Nongress requiring the adjudications to be made.
The decree of the District Court is therefore reversed, and
the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the petition.

BENJAMIN HANEY,
LIBELLANTS

AND

CHARLES

OGDEN, AND

APPELLANTS,

V.

JOHN TRENCHARD,

THE BALTIMORE

STEAM

PACKET COMPANY, OWNERS OF THE STEAMER LOUISIANA, AND

GEORGE W RUSSELL.
In a collision which took place in the Chesapeake oay between a steamer and
a sailing vessel, the steamer was in fault.
It was the captain's watch, and his duty to be on deck, which he was not.
rhe only man on deck, acting as pilbt, lookout) and officer of the deck, was not
in the proper place for a lookout to be.
A.former decision of this court referred to, indicating the proper place for a lookout.
When the collision was impending, the order on the steamer was to starboard
the helm instead of porting it, the schooner having previously kept on her
course, as the rules of navigation required her to do.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Maryland, sitting in admiralty
It was a case of collision occurring in the Chesapeake bay,
between the steamer Louisiana and the schooner William K.
Perrn, by which the schooner was sunk.
The libel was in rem, filed by the appeljants against the
steamer, and George W Russell, master thereof. The Baltimore Steam Packet Company intervened and answered as the
owner of the steamer.
The evidence in the case is so fully commented upon in the
opinion of the court and in the dissenting opinion of Mr.
Chief Justice TANEY, that any repetition of it is unnecessary
The District Court decreed in favor of the libellants in the
sum of seventeen 'hundred dollars, and of Charles Ogden, the
master of the schooner, the additional sum of $173 and costs.
On an appeal to the Circuit Court, addition al evidence was

SUPREME COUIRT.
Haney et dl. v. Baltimore Steam Packet Company.

offered, and the decree of the District Court was reversed and
the libel dismissed.
The libellants appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr Addison and Mr Batlee for the appellants, and by Mr Seiley for the appellee.
The points made by the counsel for the appellants were the
following
1. That it is the right and duty of sailing vessels, when meet
ing steamers, to hold their course, and of steamers, to give wa 3
to them.
St. John v. Paine, 10 Howard, 583.
Steamer Oregon v. Roca, 18 Howard, 572.
2. That the schooner, from the time the steamer hove in
sight until a moment or two before the collision, steadily held
her course. The answers of the defendants, the evidence of
the witnesses for the defence, and the evidence for the libellants, all concur in this, and there is not a witness who alleges
And this must be taken as a fact in the cause,
the contrary
admrttea by the defendants. proved by the defendants, and
proved by the plaintiffs.
3. That it was the right of the, schooner to change her
course, when her continuing to hold it would have caused hex
to have been run down.
New York and Liverpool U S. Mail Steamship Company
v. -Runiball, 21 Howard, 372.
4. That if the danger of being run down was imminent, and
the schooner made a false manc-uvre, when a right one would
have saved her, even then the steamer is responsible, for she
ought not needlessly to have run so close to the schooner as
to haw excited such well-ibunded apprehensions of danger as
to have disturbed the judgment of those in charge of her.
The Genesee Chief, 12 Howard, 44.
5. That the account of the disaster set up in the answer, and
given by Captain Russell and second mate Ward, is incredible,
because it is impossible it can be correct.
For if the parallels on which the vessels were running were
150, or 200, or 300 yards asunder, and the schooner changed

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

289

Haney et al. v. Baltimore Steam Packet Company.

her course at the distance of 100 or 150 yards from the point
at which they would have passed each other, if there-bald been
no change of course, the schooner could not have crossed the.
steamer's bows, as the steamer's speed was twice that of the
schooner.
6. That although Captain Russell and second mate Ward
testify to the events immediately preceding the collision, it is
very clear'
First. That Capt. Russell did not see the schooner after she
got within three or four miles of the steamer, until the
schooner's course had been changed-that is, for nine or twelve
minutes before such change.
Second. That the second mate Ward's attention was directed
to and absorbed in the changing of the course of the steamer
when the schooner changed her course.
7 That the schooner, in attempting to avoid the steamer,
turned to the right, and thus conformed to the rule of navigation established and promulgated by the Supreme Court in
the case of the steamer Oregon et al. v. Roca et al., 18 Howard, 572, where this language is employed "The rule
adopted by the Trinity masters, and sanctioned by this court,
is the safe one that when two vessels on opposite tacks are
approaching each other, each should turn to the right, passing
each other on the larboard side. This rule is too simple to be
misunderstood, and if observed, collisions would not occur
between moving boats, whether propelled by sail or steam.
The rule once established, every deviation from it should be
chargeable as a fault."
The Friends, I W Robinson, 479.
Steamer Oregon v. Roca. et al., 18 Howard, 572.
8. That the steamer violated said rule by turning to the left,
and thereby caused the collision.
9. That there was not on the steamer "a trustworthy and constant lookout," "whose whole business was to discern vessels
ahead or approaching, so as to give the earliest notice to those
in charge of the navigation of the vessel," and that the onission is prpmafacw evidence that the steamer is in fault.
Steamboat New York et al. v. Rea et al., 18 Howard, 225.
VOL.

xxI.

19

SUPREME COURT.
Haney et al. v. Baltimore iteam Packet Company.

Genesee Chief, 12 Howard, 449.
Chamberlain v. Ward, 21 Howard, 548.
10 Howard, 585.
10. That the person alleged to have been acting as lookout
was not "actually and vigilantly employed in his duty as lookout," (12 Howard, 459,) but was in effect the helmsman,
superintending a negro who performed merely the manual
labor of working the wheel, who, the lookout testifies, "acted
by my orders in the management of the wheel," and "I leave
nothing to his discretion," and "I give the order, and see and
hear if it is obeyed."
Ward says "I" (on the occasion of the collision) "put the
helm of the steamer starboard. I had just steadied the boat
on that course, and discovered the schooner had altered her
course."
11. The fact that the steamer was engaged in carrying the
United States mail furnishes no excuse for proceeding at a
speed endangering the lives and property of citizens.
The Rose, 2 W Robinson, 8.
The Iron Duke, 2 W Robinson, 385.
Rogers et al. v. Steamer St. Charles et al., 19 How., 112.
12. In cases of collision between steamers and sailing vessels, "primafacie, the steamer is chargeable with fault. The
exception to this rule must be clearly established by strong
circumstances, to excuse the steamer."
New York and Virginia S. Ship Co. v. Calderwvood et al.,
19 Howard, 246.
Steamer Oregon v. Roca, 18 Howard, 572.
13. The pretended lookout was stationed in the pilot-house,
and not in the forward part of the vessel, where he should
have been.
Newton v. Stebbins, 10 Howard, 607
St. John v. Paine et al., 10 Howard, 585.
Chamberlain et al. v. Ward, 21 Howard, 571.
Mr Schley made the following points
1. The change of the course of the schooner was the proximate and only cause of the collision, and if such change had

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

291

Haney el al. v. Baltimore Steam Packet Company.

not been made, the vessels would have passed each other in
safety
2. Thi change of course on the part of the schooner, at the
time and under the circumstances, was a gross and inexcusable fault.
3. The pilot-house on the steamer Louisiana, (as shown by
the uncontradicted testimony taken on behalf of the appellee
since this appeal, and contained in the depositions of Captains
Virden, Turrer, Rice, and Weems) was the best position for
the lookout on the steamer; and there was no want of care and
no error of judgment on board of the steamer, in any respect.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellants, owners of a schooner called the William K.
Perrin, charge in their libel that between nine and ten o'clock
of the evening of 20th of February, 1858, as the schooner,
laden with oysters, was on her way down the Chesapeake bay,
she was run into and sunk by the steamboat Louisiana, that
it was a bright moonlight night, and the schooner, though of
only forty-three tons burden and deeply laden, could be and
was seen at the distance of a mile.
The answer admits the collision and the result of it. It admits, also, the schooner was seen at a distance of two or three
milds, that the steamer was proceeding at a rate of fourteen
miles an hour, "heading, due north," and the schooner holiing her course nearly due south. But it alleges as an excuse,
that while the steamboat and schooner were meeting on parallel lines, the schooner suddenly changed her course and ran
under the bows of the steamer.
This is the stereotyped excuse usually resorted to for the purpose of justifying a careless collision. It is always improbable,
and generally false.
- There is not the usual conflict of testimony in this case, for
the single person on board of the steamer who was able to
give any account of the collisloh, who acted as pilot, and by
whose want of vigilance and skill the collision was caused,
does not materially contradict, but rather confirms, the testiwony of the libellants. The facts of the case are as follows

SUPREME CO RT.
Haney et al. v. Baltimore Steam Packet Company.

The steamer Louisiana, of eleven hundred tons burden and
five hundred horse-power, was on her way coming up the wide
bay of the Chesapeake, steering a due north course, between
nine and ten o clock at night. The small heavy-laden schooner
is seen two, or three miles off, coming in an opposite direction.
The captain of the steamer, (whose theory of action appears
from his own testimonv to be, that all small vessels are bound
at their peril to get out of the way of a large steamer carrying
the United States mail,) although he had seen the'nhooner,
and knew that the vessels were approximating at the rate of
over twenty miles an hour, retires to his cabin. It was his
watch and his duty to be on deck as officer of the deck. He
leaves on deck one man, besides the colored man at the wheel,
to act ag pilot, lookout, and officer of the deck. These two.
persons constituted the whole crew on duty, besides firemen
and engineers. This person, who had to perform these treble
functions, was the second mate. His theory is, that the best
place for a lookout is in the pilot-house, where, he says, "1
generally lean out of the window, and have an unobstructed wew."
Accordingly, as pilot, he remained in the pilot-house to direct
the steersman, and as lookout, he occasionally leaned out of
the window
The result shows the value of this theory with regard to the
place and person proper for a lookout. The schooner kept
on her course, as the rules of navigation required her to do,
on the presumption that the steamer would diverge from her
course so as to leave a free berth to the schooner, as it was the
duty of the pilot of the steamer to do. The boats were approximating at the rate of six hundred yards a minute, or one
hundred yards in ten seconds. A slight turn of the wheel of
the steamboat, if givediin due season, would have left a wide
berth for the schooner. But this, by his own account, was
neglected by this pilot and lookout till within ten seconds or
less of a collision, and then the order was to starboard the
helm, instead of porting it, in direct contravention of the rules
of navigation.
The steamer, it is true, had a right to pass on either side,
and it was her duty to keep clear andgive a wide berth to the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Haney e al. v. Baltimore Steam Packet Company.

sailing vessel, but having neglected this duty till the danger
of a collision was so imminent that it was probable the schooner
would be making some movement to avoid destruction, such
a movement only increased the danger of a collision.
The man at the wheel of the schooner had his orders to keep
steady on his course south: It is proved, without contradiction, that this order was strictly complied with till the pilot or
steersman heard the noise of the steamer's wheels, and being
warned of her approach by the lookout, he looked under the
boom, and discovered the steamer qlmost on him, when, in
order to save his own life and the lives of the crew, he ported
his helm and received the blow on the larboard side of the
schooner, near the stern, instead of the bow The point of
collision confirms, beyond a doubt, this view of the case.

The hypothesis set forth in the answer to excuse this collision, that the boats were passing on parallel lines, three hundred yards apart, and that, when within one hundred or one
hundred and fifty yards of passing each other, the schooner
turned round and run herself under the bows of the steamer,
is not only grossly improbable in itself, but contradicted by
the testimony, and is a mathematical impossibility
With this pregnant example of the value of the theory of
lookouts contended for in this case, iet us compare it with
the rules established by this court. Without referring to the
numerous cases, the correct doctrine on this subject will be
found laid down by Mr. Justice CLIFFORD in delivering the
opinion of this court in Chamberlain v. Ward, 21 How., 570
"Steamers navigating in the thoroughfares of commerce
must have constant and vigilant lookouts stationed in proper
places on the vessel." They must "be persons of suitable
experience, and actually and vigilantly employed on that
duty " "In general, elevated positions, such as the hurricane
deck, are not so favorable situations as those more -usually
selected on the forward deck, near the stem." "Persons
stationed on the forward deck are less likely to overlook small
vessels deeply laden, and more readily ascertain their exact
course and movement."
The entire disregard of these rules of navigation by the

SUPREME COURT.
Haney et al.v. Baltimore Steam Packet Company.

steamer, and the consequent destruction of property, demonstrate their correctness and .utility
In fine, we are of opinion that the collision an this case, and
destruction of the schooner Perrin, was caused wholly by thie
negligence and inattention to their duties of the officers who
navigated the Louisiana, and that the steamboat should be
condemned to pay the whole damage incurred by the said
collision.
Let the decree of the Circuit Court reversing the decree of
the District Court be reyersed.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY dissenting.
I dissent from the judgment of the court.. It is a case of
collision on. the Chesapeake bay, and involves principles and
rules of decision of great interest in the navigation of its
waters, where sailing vessels and steam vessels are continually
meeting and passing each other t'nthe night, as well as in the
day I think it my duty, therefore, t.istate the principles of
law and the evidence in the case, upon which my opinion has
been formed.
The rules of law applicable to a case of this description, as
established by this court, I understand to be the following
1. The vessels, whether sailing vessels or steamboats, must
be manned and in charge of a crew competent to navigate
them on the voyage in which they respectively engaged.
2. It is the duty of each vessel to have a lookout, acquainted with his duty, and faithfully discharging it,and
stationed at that part of the vessel which will best enable him
to see any impending danger, and promptly warn the helmsman of the point from which it is approaching.
8. It is the duty of a sailing vessel when meeting a steamboat to keep on her course, unless she is prevented by the
change or direction of the wind, and it is the duty of the
steamboat to keep out of her way, passing on the starboard or
larboard side, as the steamboat may prefer.
4. Each vessel has a right to act on the presumption that
the other knows its duty, and will act accordingly But if the
steamboat fails to shape her course to avoid the sailing vessel,

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

295

Haney t al. v. Baltimore Steam Packet Company.

in proper time and at a sufficient distance, the steamboat is
answerable for the disaster, although the collision may in fact
have been produced by an erroneous movement made by the
sailing vessel in the moment of peril, and intended to avert the
impending danger.
5. The distance at which a steamboat should pass must in
some degree depend on the wind and weather, and on the light
or darkness of the time and the size of the respective vessels.
And, in order to excuse an erroneous movement on the par
of the sailing vessel, the proximity of the steamboat, jad her
course and speed,.must be such that a mariner of .rdinary
firmness, and competent skill and knowledge, would deem it
necessary to alter his course to enable his vessel t, pass in
safety But, in order to justify this, the dangerous proximity
must be produced altogether by the steamboat.
These principles and rules of navigation are distinctly laid
down in the cases of the Genesee Chief v. Fitzhugh, 12
How., 461, and the New York and Liverpool United States
Mail Steamship Company v. Rumball, 21 Howard, 883, 884,
and have been recognised and maintained by this court in
many other cases of collision between steamboats and sailing
vessels. It would be tedious, and is unnecessary, to enumerate them, as they all affirm the same rules of navigation.
I have stated them in separate propositions, because it is of
the first importance that they should be clearly defined and
understood. And impartial justice requires that they should
be administered and enforced where they apply to the sailing
vessel, as well as to those propelled by steam. Indeed it is
impossible for the steamboat to perform its duty of keeping
out of the way at a safe distance, unless the sailing vessel performs its duty by keeping steadily on her course when the
wind will permit. And those who intrust their property in
sailing vessels, or ,heir cargoes to the care of persons ignorant
of their duty, or incompetent in any other respect, have no
.just right to ask that others who have committed no fault
should be compelled to share in their loss.
Keeping in view these established laws of navigtion, I proceed to examine as briefly as I can the testimony, and first,

SUPREME COURT.
Haney et al. v. Baltimore Steam Packet Company.

the conduct and management of the schooner Pemn, the
sailing vessel.
The collision took place near the mouth of the Rappahannock, at about ten o clock on the night of the 28th of February, 1858. It was a moonlight night, and a vessel under sail,
without lights, could be seen at the distance of three or four
miles.
The schooner was an oyster-boat, of about 40 tons burden,
and about sixty feet long, and eighteen feet beam. She belonged to Philadelphia, and had obtained a cargo of oysters in
the Patuxent river, and sailed from the river about two o clock
of the day, above mentioned, down the-bay, for the capes of
the Chesapeake, bound for her home port. It .was a cold
night, the wind from the northwest, a stiff breeze, nearly fair,
but coming rather from the western land. The sails of the
schooner were consequently spread out on her larboard sidethat is, on her eastern side, as she went down the bay She
moved at the rate of six or seven miles an hour. Hfer crew
consisted of Charles Ogden, captain, and five other persons,
includiug the oystermen on board, and the latter, when not
dredging for oysters, assisted in navigating tae vessel.
At half past eight o clock, on the night of the disaster, the
captain and all of the crew, except the witnesses, William J
Miles and Charles Cory, went below to sleep, and from that
time until the collision, no one but these two men were on
deck, or assisted in any way to navigate the vessel, and therefore have no knowledge of what led to the disaster.
In weighing the testimony given by these two witnesses, it
must be borne in mind that both of them have a direct interest in the result of the case, and will share largely in the damages that they may by their testimony recover from the steamboat. Cory says, that two-thirds of the oysters belonged to
Miles and himself, and Ogden, the captain, after 6ne-third and
the expenses were taken out. Each of these witnesses, therefore, is giving testimony in his own cause 'to support his own
claim, and they are substantially parties prosecuting the suit,
although they appear only as witnesses in the record. They
may be admissible from necessity But it is a departure and

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

297

Haney e al. v. Baltimore Seam Packet Company.

exception to the general rules of evidence, long and well established in courts of common law and equity, and goes
always strongly to their credit, and the facts stated by such
witnesses, as well as their manner of stating them, are carefully scrutinized by courts of justice, in Considering the case.
The wisdom and justice of the common-law rule will, I think,
be apparent when we examine the testimony of Cory and
Miles.
Cory's account of himself is this He has been following
the water as an oysterman four years and a half, during the
oyster season, and on such occasions, when he is not dredging
for oysters, it is a part of his duty to help to navigate the
vessel and to help to look out, and he is always in one of the
watches. But he had never before been down the bay below
the Patuxent. He was the lookout, and the only one, in this
part of the voyage. He says he saw the steamboat when
about three or three and a half miles off, that he was walking on the larboard-that is, the leeward and eastern side of
the vessel, and saw the steamboat between the night-head and
fore shroud of the schooner, and she was to the leeward, larboard and eastward, and that, immediately upon seeing her.
he said to Miles, the helmsman, "hadn't you better keep
away 9" and about five minutes afterwards, asked him again,
if he hadn't better keep away, and receiving no answer to
either question, he seems to have supposed that he had performed his whole duty as a lookout, for he appears to have
made no further effort to communicate with the helmsman,
and to have taken no further concern in the navigation of the
vessel, before the collision happened.
It is evident from this testimony, given by the witness himself, that he was utterly unfit for a lookout, and performed
none of its duties. He was not at the bow or near the head
of the vessel, nor even on the windward side, where the sails
would not have obstructed his view ahead, but was walking
on her larboard or leeward side, and must have been aft of
the foremast, as he first.saw the Louisiana between the nighthead and fore shroud. This was no place for a lookout, for the
foresail and head sails were directly before hii4, and made it

SUPREME COURT.
Haney et al. v. Baltimore Steam Packet Company.

impossible for him to see the bearing or distance of any vessel
approaching directly ahead, or on her larboard or eastern bow
And although he swears that he did, notwithstanding these obstacles, see her to the leeward and eastward of his vessel, he obviously contradicts himself, when he immediately after states
that he twice advised the helmsman to alter his course more" to
the east, for if he really thought the steamboat bore to the east
of south, his advice to the helmsman was to put the schooner
directly in her way, instead of avoiding her, nor can the
slightest reliance be placed upon his statement that the steamboat was to the eastward, or that the schooner was standing
due south when he first saw the steamboat, or that she did
not change her course until she luffed to the west a moment
or two before the collision, for he had no compass before
him, had never before been in that part of the bay, and under
such circumstances could form no accurate judgment of the
cardinal points of the compass, it was simply impossible that
he could know whether the steamboat bore some points to the
east or west of south, or that his vessel was heading due south,
or two or three points to the east or to the west of south, or
whether she did not vary in her course two or three points as
she was approaching the steamboat before she changed directly to the west.
It would seem that he placed himself on the larboard side
under the lee of the mainsail to shelter himself from the cold
northwest wind, and in that situation it is literally impossible
that he could know the precise course the schooner steered,
or the bearing of the steamboat when he first saw her, and as
he approached her, andit is equally impossible that he should
have given the advice he did to the helmsman, if he really
thought the steamboat bore east from the schooner.
The testimony of Miles, the only other ruaterial witness for
the libellants, will show that he was as unfit for a helmsman
as Cory was for a lookout, and that the facts he states are as
little to be relied on.
Ie says he has been following the water as an oysterman
thirteen or fourteen years, and accustomed to take the helm
for the last four or five years, and it does not appear that he

DECEMBER TERM, 1809.

299

Haney et a. v. B dtmore Steam Packet Company.

was ever before in that part of the Chesapeake bay, he was
standing on the larboard side of the vessel, the same side with
the sails, with his right hand on the helm, and from his posi
tion could see nothing ahead without going upon one knee,
and looking under the boom, and when Cory told him there
was a light ahead, he looked-tuder the boom, and saw the
Louisiana bbout one-half or three-quarters of a point to the
eastward of the schooner.
Now, when he saw the steamer approaching, it was his duty,
according to the repeated decisions of this court, to stand by
his helm, with his eye on the compass, and keep the vessel
steadily in her course, and rely on the lookout for information as to the approach and bearing of the steamboat, his own
course at the time, he says, was due south.
_But instead of doing this, he immediately took upon himself the additional duty of lookout, under circumstances that
made it impossible he could perform either. He was on his
knee from a half to three-quarters of an hour before the collision took place, watching the steamboat under the boom of
his vessel. He says, indeed, that he did not watch her all the
time, but watched his course, yet he tells us the boom was
only 8 or 34 feet from the deck, and therefore, in order to look
under it, he was obliged not only to go on his knee, but to
bring his head down to within two or three feet of the deck;
and in that posture, while watching the steamboat, it was absolutely impossible for him to know the exact course he was
then steering, or form a correct judgment of the distance or
bearing of the steamboat, for the compass was hid from him
by the sides of the binnacle in which it stood, and his view
ahead, and on the eastern bow of his vessel, obstructed by the
foresail and head sails, which were spread out on the same
side. And when he speaks of bearings and distances, he
speaks, necessarily, not by the compass, but from vague conjectures, and states facts of which he could have no certain
knowledge, and was not in a situation to form an opinion
upon which any reliance could be placed, he admits that
where he stood, with the compass before him, he could not

SUPREME COURT.
Haney e al. v. Baltimore Steam Packet Company.

see the Louisiana, and consequently could not see how she
bore by the compass.
Again, he says Cory was looking out at the time of the collision, and was a competent lookout, yet his own testimony
shows that he did not think so, nor places the slightest confidence in him, for as soon as Cory reported the steamboat in
sight, he took upon himself the duty of lookout, as well as
helmsman, although he was at the stern of the vessel, and
could see nothing ahead except under the boom. And from
the time the Louisiana came in sight, he was so absorbed in
these double duties, or confused and bewildered by the appearance of the steamboat, that he does not appear to have remembered there was such a person as Gory on deck, he asked
no information from him, and did not even hear him when he
twice advised him to keep his vessel off, yet Cory was standing within a few feet of him, with nothing but the mainsail
between them, and he had heard readily and distinctly when
he reported to him .that the steamboat was in sight.
He says he kept his course due south. I have already said he
could not know the fact, as a large portion of his time was
passed in watching the steamboat, with his head in a position
which made it impossible for him to see his compass. And
with his right hand on the helm, and stooping low on the larboard side to see under the boom, his right arm would naturally and necessarily follow the movement of his body to the
larboard,, and draw the tiller with it, and cause the vessel from
time to time, with such a strong wind pressing on her mainsail, to head towards the west, and edge nearer and nearer to
the due north line in which the Louisiana was moving, and
thus, by his own incapacity and fault, produce the proximity
which so much alarmed him, and induced him suddenly to
change his course to the west. It is true, the lookout on
board the Louisiana says she appeared to be standing south,
and that he did not observe any change until she suddenly
luffed to the west. But Captain Russell states, and every seaman knows, that you cannot, in the night, determine the precise course which an approaching vessel ahead is steering,
and coming, as this schooner did, with a free wind, she might

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

301

Haney et al. v. Baltimore Steam Packet Company.

frequently vary from her general course, from time to time,
one or two points, for two or three minutes, and the most vigilant lookout on the steamboat fail to discover it or observe it,
yet, at the speed at which she was going, she would, by the
slightest movement of the helm to the larboard, or the least
relaxation of the hold of the helmsman, head more to the west,
and approach nearer to the line of the steamboat, and increase
the danger of a collision.
Indeed, Miles admits that his vessel did vary a little, but
not enough, he says, to take her from her course, he does
not, however, tell us how much she varied' nor what variance
he thinks necessary to take her from her course, nor how long
it continued, nor in what direction. It is obvious, from what
he says of his own position anq movements, that every variation from her general course must have been towards the
west.
I do not think it necessary to comment further on the evidence given by these two witnesses. Testifying in the manner
I have stated, and under the influence of a direct pecuniary
interest in the result, I cannot think their statements would
be entitled to any weight against the steamboat, even if uncontradicted by other testimony, but in all of its essential
parts it is contradicted by disinterested witnesses who were
on board of-the Louisiana, and I proceed briefly to state the
testimony of Captain Russell, and Ward, the second mate, who
are the only two material witnesses on behalf of the steamboat.
The disaster happened in the captain's watch, during which
the second mate, Ward, was the lookout, and charged with
the running of the vessel, the wheesman was a colored man,
and could not, therefore, be examined as a witness, but it is
abundantly proved that he was an experienced wheelsman,
and accustomed to perform that duty on steamboats, and was
fully competent and trustworthy
Captain iRussell and the mate have for many years been
engaged in the navigation of steamboats up and down the bay,
at all seasons of the year; are both pilots of long experience, and
well acquainted with the dangers to be apprehended, and are
accustomed to meet and pass vessels at all hours of the night

SUPREME COURT.
Haney e at. v. Baltimore Steam Packe Company.

and of the day

Neither of them have any pecuniary 'nterest

in the result of this controversy, and they are both men of
undoubted character for intelligence and veracity.
It has indeed been said, that the answer of Captain Russell
to the libel, and his testimony as a witness, contradict one
another, and that, on that account, credit ought not to be
given to his testimony, but I can see no discrepancy between
them. In his answer, he speaks in general terms of the
disaster and the causes which led to it, and that is all that
was proper or usual to state in an answer. When examined
as a witness, he enters more minutely into the circumstances,
and mentions his momentary absence from the deck just
before the Perrin changed her course to the west, but there
is no contradiction or discrepancy in this, and it is hardly
just to a witness to select a detached sentence from the
answer, and another from the testimony, to show an apparent
contradiction, when the two papers, read throughout, are perfectly consistent with each other, and substantially the same,
and in both his answer and his deposition as a witness he
supports and confirms the testimony of Ward, the lookout,
in every fact material to the decision of the case. Ward says
he was stationed in the wheel-house, or pilot-house, as the
place is indifferently called, the house is about sixty feet from
the bow, upon the upper deck, and elevated about twenty-five
feet, he stood by the side of the wheelsman on the larboard
side of the house, and the wheelsman on the starboard, about
four feet from him, and the compass was in the wheel-house,
in front of the wheelsman.
It has been argued that the lookout ought to have been at
the bow, and some passages in the opinions of this court in
former cases are relied on to suppoit this objection. But the
language used b- the court must always be construed with
reference to the facts in the particular case of which they are
speaking, and the character and description of the vessel.
What is the most suitable place for a lookout, is obviously a
question of fact, depending upon the construction and rig of
the vessel, the navigation in which she is engaged, the climate
and weather-to which she is exposed, and the hazards ghe is

DECEMBER TEIRM, 1859.
.izney et al. v. Balimore Steam Packet Company.

likely to encounter, and must, like every other question of
fact, be determined by the court upon the testimony of witnesses-that is, upon the testimony of nautical men of experience and judgment. It cannot, in the nature of things, be
judicially known to the court as a matter of law All that
the law prescribes is, the rule that the lookout shall be stationed in that part of the vessel where he can most conveniently and effectually discharge the duty with which he is
charged. And all of the experienced pilots who have been
examined as witnesses in this case, accustomed to the navigation of the bay, well acquainted with the form and construction of the Louisiana, unite in testifying that the place where
Ward was stationed was the best and most suitable, and they
point out the serious disadvantages that might arise from stationing him at the bow There can hardly be a rule of law
which requires a steamboat to station a lookout in a place
where he cannot effectually perform his duty In a vessel
propelled by sails, he is uniformly stationed at the bow, 'ecause, in any other part of the vessel, his view ahead would
be obstructed by the head sails and rgging. But this reason
does not apply to steamboats constructed like the Louisiana.
Taking it, therefore, as fully established by proof, that
Ward, the lookout, was competent, and stationed in the propei
place, I proceed to state his testimony, which is as follows
He saw the schooner when about three or four miles off.
The steamboat was leading a due north course, and the
schooner appeared to be heading south, and bore by the compass north half east on the starboard (eastern) side of the steamboat. When the two vessels approached within the distance
of 800 or 400 yards, the schooner bore north one point east
on the starboard side of .the Louisiana, and when within
about 160 yards of the schooner,, in order to give a wider
space in passing, he headed the steamboat north by west,
which left the schooner bearing two points east on her starboard bow. He had just steadied his boat in this course when
he discovered that the schooner altered her course, and was
heading west across the bay, and continued to hold that
course until the; collision took place. The moment he dis-

SUPREME COURT
Haney et al. v. Baltimore Steam -Packet Company.

covered that the schooner had changed her course, he gave
the signal to stop and back, which was instantly obeyed. But
the vessels came together before the headway of the steamboat was entirely stopped.
The testimony of this witness, supported as it is by that of
Captain Russell, can hardly be impeached by such testimony
as that which has been given, by such witnesses as Cory and
Miles.
And I regard this as the true history of the disaster, and of
the movements of the vessels by which it was produced.
The facts established by this proof, that the schooner bore
north half east when first seen at the distance of three or four
miles, and north one point east when at the distance of about
300 yards, show that., from the causes I have before mentioned,
she had not maintained her course due south during that time,
but had been luffing aud edging to the west, so as to bring
her nearer and nearer to the due north line ii which the
steamboat was steering, for, if they had approached each
other ii parallel lines, the schooner would have borne more
and more to the east, and would have been directly east when
they passed, and would therefore, when within 300 yards,
have borne more than one point to the east of north. But even
then, if she had continued to hold her course due south, and
the steamboat had continued hers due north, they would have
passed in safety, but nearer, indeed, than a steam vessel of
the size of the Louisiana ought to pass so small a vessel as the
oyster-boat. But when the steamboat changed her course one
degree more to the west, it is evident that they would have
passed each other not only in safety, but at a convenient and
sufficient distance, for, it will be observed, that, for the distance of one hundred and fifty yards at which the steamboat
changed her course, she was proceeding slowly, backing with
all the force of her machinery, and with so much effect that
her headway was nearly stopped when they came in contact.
This is pro-ed by the character of the injury inflicted. It is
true that the side of the schooner was broken in, and an opening made, through which the water rushed in, and filled and
sunk her in a few minutes. The witnesses for the libellants,

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

305

Haniy et al.v. Baltimore Steam Packet £ompany.

who examined the schooner at Norfolk after she had been
raised and carried into port, say that the blow "had hit the
main beam across the break of the quarter, and split itknocked the knees out from each side of it, and cut her down
to light-water mark." But it did not even upset her. Cory,
indeed, says that her stern was driven under the water. But
Miles, who was at the stern, does not support him. On the
contrary, he says the blow threw him to the windward, (that
is, to the opposite side,) and that he went up the rigging of
his vessel until he got on the bow of the steamboat. He does
not intimate that he was 1i danger of being washed overboard
or plunged into the water. Now, with the immense weight
and size of the Louisiana, coming stem on, against the broadside of the comparatively slender and frail timbers and planks
of this little oyster-boat, if the headway of the steamboat had
not been very nearly stopped before she struck the schooner,
the injury inflicted must have been much greater than that
described by the witnesses. If she had been moving at even
one-third of her ordinary speed, she would unquestionably
have buried this little boat in the water, and passed over her.
These facts of themselves show that her rate of speed for these
150 yards, taking it all together, could not have averaged, at
the outside, more than four or five miles an hour.
Now, the schooner changed her course to directly west
almost simultaneously with the reversal of the engine of the
steamboat, approaching her line of movement nearly at a right
angle, and was moving from east directly west during the
-tmethe steamboat was passing over this 150 yards. She'was
moving, also, with equal or greater speed, for all of the witnesses agree that she was sailing at the rate of six or seven
miles an Four; and when she changed her course to west, she
was in full headway, with all sails set, and must have maintamed, dufing that time, at least very nearly the speed at
which she had before been sailing; and this being the case,
she liust, in order to bring the vessels into contact, have
passed nearly the same distance to the west which the steam.
boat, while backing, had passed to the noth-that is, 150
yards; and consequently, if she had held on her course, would
VOL. xxi.
20

SUPREME COURT.
Haney e al. v. Baltimore Steam Packet Company.

have passed at that distance, or nearly so, to the eastvard of
the steamboat.
It has, indeed, been said that the collision was immediate
after the change of course by the schooner, and the backing
of the steamboat; and calculations have been presented to
show that it must have been so, because, from the combined
speed of the two vessels, taken together, the 150 yards would
be passed over in a few seconds. But this argument has no
foundation in the evidence, for the steamer was not proceeding at her ordinary speed, but backing all the way, and had
nearly stopped when she came in contact with the schooner.
And the latter vessel was not meeting her from an opposite
direction, but standing directly across her path, leaving the
steamboat to pass over these 150 yards, and at the reduced
rate of speed of which I have spoken, before the vessels could
come together.
In reference to this part of the evidence, it is, perhaps,
hardly necessary to notice the evidence of Miles, who says
they were within thirty yards of the steamboat when he
changed his course to the west. No one, I presume, will
think that his testimony in this respect is entitled to any
weight, when in conflict with the testimony of Captain Russell
and the mate, Ward, who were both in a position to see perfectly what was before them, and accustomed, by long experience, to measure distances on the water by the eye, while
Miles was looking under the boom of his inainsail with his
head near the deck, and his vision obstructed by the sails and
rigging of his own vessel. ie was in no position to form a
correct judgment of distances any more than of bearings, and
even Gory contradicts him, and says, that "we did not change
our course until we were within 150 yards, if, indeed, we were
more than 100 yards from the Louisiana." He, in effect, cor.eoborates the testimony of Captain Russell and Ward.
It has been said, also, that the steamboat ought to have
slowed her speed before she approached so near as 150 yards
to the sailing vessel. But this argument loses sight of the
fact that, until the schooner changed her course to the west,
those on board of the steamboat had no reason to suppose that

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

307

Haney et a. v. Baltimore Steam .Packe, Company.

thefe was the slightest danger of collision, or any reason for
slackening her ordinary speed. They had a right to presume,
,and indeed were bound to presume, that the schooner would
steadily hold on the course she was steering, and the steamboat had shaped its course to keep out of her way, and pass
her at a safe and convenient distance. And the moment they
.discovered that the schooner had changed her course, ancl was
heading in a direction that might produce collision, she instantly stopped and backed, and took every measure in her
power to avert the danger. But until the change of course
by the schoonor, there could be no reason and no obligation
whatever to slacken her speed, for it can hardly be supposed
that a steamboat is bound to stop or slacken her speed whenever she sees a sailing vessel coming in an opposite direction,
and wait to see whether she will conform to the rule laid down
by this court, and hold her course, or suddenly change it to
cross the line in which the steamboat is moving. Such a rule
would make steamboat navigation of very little value on the
Chesapeake. But unless such is to be the rule, I can see no
ground for imputing it as a fault to the steamboat, that she
did not slacken her- speed until she came within 150 yards,
when it is admitted that the schooner did not change her
course to the west until she had come within that distance of
the steamboat.
As relates to the general rate of speed of the steamboat, no
one acquainted with the navigation of the Chesapeake has
ever suggested or supposed that it was dangerous to life or
property on that wide bay; and there is no evidence from
which such an inference can be drawn. The fact that the
Louisiana carried the mail, and was obliged: to proceed at the
rate of fourteen or fifteen. miles an hour, in order to fulfil her
contract, certainly gave her no rights or privileges beyond
those of any other steam vessel, nor exempted her in any
degree fro n the care, caution, and watchfulness, in speed as
well as in everything else, required of others. The fact that
a contract .was made is perhaps some evidence that the
.public authorities of the United States, having all the means
of information within their reach, were satisfied that the rate

SUPREME COURT.
Haney et al. v. Baltimore Steam Packet Comnpany .

of speed required was not dangerous to the life or property of
our citizens who are accustomed to navigate the bay
It is unnecessary to remark upon the testimony given by
the captain of the Keyser, which sailed from the Patuxent in
company with the Perrin. Hie was, he says, three-quarters of
a mile off, and could in the night, even by mo.nlight, have
no certain and accurate knowledge of the bearing of the colliding objects towards each other as they approached, or thparticular incidents of the collision, the more especially aq
both vessels were ahead of him, and to leeward, and hidden
from him by his own sails as he stood at his helm. He says
too, that before the col]ision, he paid very little attention, ano
what he did see was by looking under his boom.
Neither do I attach any importance to conversations and
statements made on board the Louisiana after the collision.
Declarations made in conversation are apt to be loose and
unguarded-are often misunderstood, and, in my judgment,
entitled to very little weight in any case, and least of all in a
case like this, where the minds of all had been excited and
agitated by the scene through which they had so recently
passed.
There is no other evidence in the record which appears to
be material to the points I am discussing, and I forbear, therefore, to refer to it. This opinioi already occupies more space
than I anticipated. But, as the full statement of the testimony cannot be given in the report of the case, I have found
myself unable to present the facts truly and fairly, as I understand them, in fewer words.
I fully agree with the court, that the strictest supervision
should be held over steamboats. But it is impossible for them
to perform the duty of keeping out of the way, unless the
sailing vessel is held to the correlative duty of keeping her
course. Even-handed justice requires that the law of navigation should be as obligatory upon the sailing vessel as it is
up.on the steamboat. This is a question of property, and the
rights of the parties are to be ascertained and determined by
the rules of law And where the evidence shows, as I think
it does, that the Louisiana performed her duty, and took

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Day et al. v. Washburn et a7.

proper measures to keep out of the way, and her efforts were
counteracted and defeated by the sailing vessel, and a collision
forced upon the steamboat by the incapacity and misconduct
of those iTcharge of the Perrin, I cannot think that the
steamboat 3hould be charged with any part of the damage
which the sailing vessel brought upon itself. Those who
intrust their property on the water to incompetent hands have
no just right to complain of disasters, and claim indemnity for
losses arising altogether from the incapacity and unfitness of
those to whom they have confided it, and still less have Gory
and Miles, whose incapacity and misconduct were the sole
cause of disaster.
And entertaining this view of the controversy, I dissent
from the judgment of the court.

GEoRaE W. DAY, BOWEN MATLOCK, ISAAC H. FROTHINGHAM,
AND GEORGE W. WARNER, APPELLANTS, V. WILLIAm A.
WASHBURN AND JOHN A. KEITH.
Where a motion was made to dismiss an appeal, upon the ground that the appeal
was taken by part only of the complainants below, and that the other complainants had not been made and were not parties to the appeal; and it appeared
from the record that a fund had been decreed bythe court below to be distributed
ratably amongst two classes of creditors, one of which was composed of judgment creditors, and the other of those who had come in after the filing of a
creditor's bill; and the first
class only conceived themselves aggrieved by the
decree admitting the others to a ratable proportion, and therefore became
the appellants; this court will, in such a state of things, refuse'the-motion to
dismiss and reverse this, together with all other points to be decided, when
the case shall come up fbr argument hereafter.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Indiana.
A motion was made by Albert G. Porter, as amicus curix,
to dismiss the appeal, because the appeal was taken by part
only of the complainafits below, and that the other compjainants have not been made and are not parties to said appeal.
The authorities cited were the following:

