DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

255

United States v. Bennitz.

might be justified in attempting to get the judgment of this
court in their favor, in this oblique and irregular manner,
under the protection of the Attorney General.
We have concluded, therefore, to remand the record to the
District Court, with directions to suspend further proceedings
till the heirs or assigns of Juan Miranda, if they see fit so to
do, may have an opportunity to contest the claim under Ortega,
according to the provisions of the thirteenth section of the
act of 3d March, 1851, entitled "An act to ascertain and settle
the private land claims in the State of California," and have
such further proceedings as to justice and right may appertain.
And now, to wit, May 1, 1860, the court having reconsid-,
ered the opinion and order before made in this case, do now
order and adjudge that the decree of the District Court in
favor of the appellees be reversed and set aside, and the record
remitted for further proceedings in the case.
We do this that the District Court may not be trammelled
in their future consideration of the case on all its merits, but
without intimating an opinion as to the validity of the grant
to Antonio Ortega. It is due to the Attorney General to say
that, on the argument of this case, he challenged this grant
al fraudulent; and it is because we do not think the whole
evidence on that point was fully developed on the former trial
below, that this order is made.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLA-TS, V. WILLiAm BENm z.
The general title of Sutter to land in California again decided to convey no valid

title-

Tins was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
It was a claim for five leagues of land on the Sacramento
river, which was presented to the board of commissioners
with the following evidence and result:

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Bennitz.

-Inthis case, the petitioner has placed on file an application
made by him to Governor Micheltorena, on the 18th day of
June, 1844, and states in his petition that the same was referred to John Sutter for his opinion, and that on the 16th day

of July, 1844, the said Sutter reported in favor of the issue of
a grant, and the signatures of the said Micheltorena and the
said Sutter being satisfactorily established by proof.
Here the proceeding on the part of the petitioner ends.
The board are of opinion that no sufficient proofs have been
offered to entitle the said petitioner to a confirmiaation, and that
the same sLould be rejected. RejecteO.
Additional evidence was produced to the District Court, viz:
June 18, 1844. Petition of Bennitz for a tract of land called
Breisgan, five leagues on the Sacramento river.
Same day. Referred to Jimeno, and by him to Sutter for
report.
July 16, 1844. Report by Sutter that the land is unoccupied.
July 26, 1844. Jimeno's recommendation that it should
wait until the Governor can visit the Sacramento; to which
the Governor says: "Let him occupy it provisionally until I
go up to conclude it."
These documents were proved by J. J. Warner, who swore
that he believed the signatures ofiMicheltorena, Jimeno, and
Sutter, to be genuine.
December 22, 1844. Micheltorena's general grant to J. A.
Sutter.
John A. Sutter, being called as a witness, says that Bennitz
was one of the persons to whom the general grant applies.
Ernest Rufus says that Bennitz served in 1844 under Micheltorena, as a member of the Sacramento riflemen, &c.
Adolph Brenheim (another German) says that one Julien, a
Frenchman, had possession of the land for a while as tenant
of Ben nitz.
The District Court confirmed the claim, and the United
States appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Stanton for the United States, and by
Mr. Bcaltam and Mr. Gillet for the claimant.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
United States v. Bennitz.

Mr. Stanton contended that this case fell within the decision
of the court in 21 Howard, 408, 412, where Sutter's general
title is set forth.
The counsel for the claimant contended that this case was
to be distinguished from those cases as follows, which is taken
from the brief of Mr. Gillet:
First. Bennitz acquired an interest in the land claimed by
virtue of thb license granted by Miheltorena on the 26th of

July, 1844.
Bennitz petitioned for the land in the ordinary manner. It
was referred to the secretary, and by him sent to Sutter for
report. The latter reported favorably. On returning- the
papers to the Governor, the secretaiy suggested that the
formal grant of the legal title should be delayed until the Governor should visit that part of the country, and dispose of the
previous applications. Thereupon the Governor authorized
Bennitz to take possession and hold it until he should go up
and conclude the matter of the grants. He endorsed: "Let
him occupy it provisionally until I go up and conclude the
matter." But he never went up.
This conferred a riglht of possession and occupancy which
has never been revoked. The petitioner took possessin by
his agent, and occupied for fifteen or eighteen months, until
the agent was killed by the Indians, as in Reading's case, and
he continued tQ claim the land.
On the 22d of December, 1844, Micheltorena gave what is
denominated the "general title," which was intended as a
confirmatory grant of this and other lands. This satisfied
Bennitz that he had acquired a legal title, and he continued
to occupy down to 1846, (when his agent was killed,) and he
also continued to claim the land.
This case is clearly distinguishable from those of Sutter and
Wye, decided at the last term, (21 How., 170, 408.) In each
of those cases there was a petition, a reference, and a report
by the local fficer, but no further action by the Governor -ir.
either. All rested upon the subsequent general ti.le.
In Sutter's claim for the sobrante there was a petition and
VOL. XXIIi.

17

258

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Bennitz.

favorable report, but no further action. Mr. Justice CAMPBELL,
in the opinion of the court, says "that the Gc ernor reserved
the subject for consideration until he could visit the Sacramento valley, and that the papers were returned to the claimant." (21 How., 179.)
In Nye's case be said: "The secretary referred the petition
to Senor Sutter, commissioner of the frontier of Sacramento.
Sutter certifies, on this reference, that the land is now unoccupied. His certificate is dated the 29th of January, 1844.
There is no evidence to show that these papers were returned
'to Micheltorena, or that he ever saw the certificate. They are
produced by the claimant. The remainder of the evidence
consists of what is termed" Sutter's general title. (21 How.,
pp. 409, 410.)
In Bassett's case, there was no evidence that possession had
been taken of the land or improvements made by the grantee,
nor that he performed any act in confidence that he had acquired any interest therein. The case does not show that he
believed he had acquired any rights, or that he sought to exercise any. There is. no evidence of the Governor's understanding in relation to that particular case. There is nothing
to show that Bassett expended time or money, on the strength
of his belief that he had received any right to the land, or that
he expected a legal title would be conferred upon him as a
necessary and proper conclusion of what had previously been
done.
"The case at bar presents quite a different aspect from
either-of those decided at the last term. Bennitz made application for a grant in the usual manner, and received a license
to occupy until the Governor should act after a personal examination. Bennitz treated this as conferring a substantial right.
IHe caused a settlement and improvements to -be made, and
cattle t6 be placed on the land. The person whom he placed
on the land- lived on it near a year and a half, until he was
killed by the Indians. He himself served the Government in
the army, and was assured by the Governor that his grant had
been confirined. He believed it, and acted accordingly. Both
lie and the representative of the Government (the Governor)

DECEIBER TERM, 1859.

.259

United States v. Bennitz.

apparently entertained the same opinion upon this subject.
Both believed that Bennitz had rights to the land. No one
interfered to denounce the land, or meddle with or question
Bennitz's rights. Things remained unchanged until the Government changed hands. No steps have ever been taken to
deprive him of his claim. The representative of Mexico did
what he thought would confirm Bennitz in his title. Bennitz,
like many others, thought the general title, granted the same
year, rendered his rights perfect. He continued his possession, and took steps towards further settlement, either by way
of tenancy or sale, and submitted his papers to a proposed
purchaser, by way of showing that he had rights.
True, all this did not create legal title. But it did create- an
equitable title, of a distinct and unquestionable kind. The
steps taken, and acts performed, created an interest ini Bennitz, which was of value to him, and which really cost him
something. He took the incipient steps to acquire title, and
the representative of Mexico concurred in them, and conferred
a right which he was to look after at 'afuture day, and, if all
was right and proper, he would convert what he then did into
a legal title.
Bennitz had done all on his part, and there was nothing in
the way of the Governor conferring perfect legal title. It was
no fault of Bennitz that it was not actually done. Mexico
assented to his rights, by leaving him in the quiet and full
possession of the land down to the treaty.
Would Mexico ever have questioned Bennitz's rights? Certainly she did not; and by taking possession and making improvements, Benriitz paid the usual consideration required to
secure a perfect grant. By not giving him .notice that his
rights would not be recognised, Mexico led him into expenses
that he would not otherwise have incurred. She, by the acts
of her lawful representative, induced Bennitz to go on and
expend money in improvements. She told him lie might go
into possession until she should determine that he could not
have the land. She sent him word that his land was confirmed
to him. She sent out a broad paper, inducing him to believe
-that perfect title had been made to him. He confided in these

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Bennitz.

acts, which were of a character calculated to secure his confidence. There is no evidence that Mexico did not really mean
what she said. While she remained the sovereign there, she
never questioned the act of her representative, even after he
was driven from the country by local enemies..
These acts of Mexico created clear equitable rights in Bennitz, and they have never been forfeited or taken from him.
They existed when, by the trealy, the United States succeeded
to the rights of Mexico. Bennitz's rights were good, and
bound the conscience of Mexico until they were divested ac-.
cording to law, which has not yet occurred. Since the purchase by the United States, they have not been changed. No
branch of our Government could change them against Bennitz. They are now just what they were under Mexico, when
he was occupying and improving the land.
This court cannot take away any right, however small, which
he then had; but it must confirm it, if it. was a right at all,
which, in the ordinary course of events, if there had been no
change of Governnicnt,'would have ripened into a legal right
If the Government of Mexico had done any act which.conferred such a right, whether it had ripened into a perfect right
or not, then, in equity and good conscience, our Government
is bound to recognise that right, and'to confirm it to the
claimant, freed from all claim oi its part.
The court can, under the law of 1851, declaring the rights
of parties, declare an inchoate right to be a legal and perfect
one. It can do what Mexico would have done under the circumstances. But it cannot deprive the party of any right,
however trifling, which had become his, either in law or
equity.
The cases heretofore passed upon in this court have involved
only legal titles. No case. has presented a simple equitable
title. The statute recognises equitable titles as proper for the
ourt to pass upon and confirm.
In the Louisiana and Florida cases, the party desiring land
petitioned for it, and obtained an order to survey; and when
the survey was made, occupancy conferred an equitable title,
which this court w6uld confi m. The petition in.Oaliforiia is

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

261

United States v. Benniz.

the same, except it is usually accompanied with a map, which
rendered the survey unnecessary. The reference tc ascertain
whether the land was vacant, and the report thereon in California, were equal to a survey in Florida and Louisiana. Occupancy in the latter places .completed the equitable rights of
the party. In California; when occupancy follows the petition,
reference and report, and permission to occupy, the effect must
'be the same. The party has everything that he could have,
except the formal grant, whieh would confer perfect legal
title. When the case falls shprt of legal title, but there is
something of- it, then it must be an equitable claim; and if
that exists, then the court must confirfa it.
There was something in this case which was treated by
Mexico and the claimant as an interest.. There was an application for a definite spot which was not occupied, and it was
so reportdd, and "permission given to occupy until further
action by the Goverhor, and then there was possession and
continued occupancy. Mexico could not have recovered
against him as aT trespasser, after the license and occupancy
under it; and no one denouncing the land, the Governor could
not eject him. Here, were tangible facts. -The claimant
thought he had some rights, and no one questioned them.
He was told his title was confirmed, and a formal document
followed. Here was something of substance. Not being a
legal title, but still being something which would affect the
2onscience of Mexico, it was clearly an equity. If it was an
equity, this court is bound to recognise and confirm it.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The claimant applied to Micheltorena, in 1844, for a concession of five square leagues of land, lying in the valley of
the Sacramento river, and bounded on the west by that stream.,
The petition was referred to Captain Sutter, who reported that
the land was vacant.
The secretary reported, that the Governor having deferred
any action upon petitions like the present, until he could make
a visit to the region of the Sacramento and San Joaquin, it
would be proper to dispose of this ini the same manner.

SUPREME COURT.
Uhited States v. Rose et al.

he Governor so ordered, authorizing the applicant to take
provisional possession, until he could make his visit. The
suit of the claimant was submitted to the board of commissioners on this testimoniy, and it was rejected, as invalid.
Upon appeal to the District Court, the claimant proved that
he was a soldier in the war of Micheltorena, and an officer in
one of the companies of Sutter. That. the Governor acknovledged his services in that war, and verbally recognised the
validity of his claim for the land specified, and that it would
be perfected by means of the "general title" of Sutter. The
claimant also proved, that in March, 1845, two persons went
upon the land, to make improvements under his claim. That
one of them shortly after retreated, from fear of the Indians;
that the other (Julien) made some impirovement and cultivation, and occupied the land twelve or fifteen months, when
he was killed by them. In the case of the United States v.
Reading, 18 How., 1, it was proved that Julien occupied the
land of that claimant.
The merits of the claims arising under the general title of
Sutter have been discussed in the cases of Nye and Bassett,
reported in 21 How. R., 408, 412. This claim is in all respects
similar; and, for the reasons assigned in those cases, is invalid.
Decree reversed. Cause remanded, with directions to dismiss the petition.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. JOHN ROSE AND GEORGE
KINLOCK.
Sutter's general title to lands in California again examined, together with the
historical events which preceded and attended it. The court again decides
that claims under this title are not valid.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.

