DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

495

Yontz v. United Stales.

and personal franchises." The arguments used in stating the
opinion of the court must be referred to the subject before it,
and construed in connection with the question to be decided.
They had no reference'whatever to any former decisions of this
court an the question r.ow (it is hoped for the last time) mooted
before us.
There is much testimony in the record of this case, on the
issue -made by the answer, with the usual discrepancy and
contradiction in matters of opinion. The Iuestion whether
the cargo was injured through the negligence and fault of the
master, or whether the damage to it was,caused by the innate
vice of the cargo and its necessary, exposure on the voyage,
was a very complei one, depending wholly on the opinion of
experts. Where witnesses of proper dkill and experience have
formed their judgment from a personal examination of the
subject of the controversy, their opinions are generally more
worthy of confidence thau those elicited by.hypothetical questiofs, which may or may'not state all the accidents and circumstances necessary to form a correct conclusion.
The decision of this case by the District and Circuit Courts
is supported by the testimonJ7 of numerous witnesses, who
had both .the capacity and experience to judge, and had examined the suject pf the controversy. We see no reason to
dispute the correctness of their judgment, or to enter into a
particular examination of the conflicting testimony in order to
vindicate the correctness of our own. We have frequently
said that appellants should not expect this court to reverse a.
decree of the Circuit Court merely upon a doubt created by
conflicting testimony.
The judgment.of the Circuit Court is affirmed with costs.

JOHN YORTZ,

ADmINISTRATOR OF JOSE DOLORES PACHECO, DECEASED, APPELLANT, V. THE UNITED STATES.

Where a grant of land in California had this clause, viz: "The tract of which
grant is made is of the extent mentioned in the plan, which goes with the
expedien!e, with its respective boundaries the officer giving tih possession

SUPREME COURT.
ontz v. United States.
shall cause it to be measured, according to the ordinance, to mark boundaries
the surplus to remain for the nation, for its uses," according to the face of the
grant, it must be confined to two leagues mentioned in the petition. Otherwise, there could be no surplus.
As there was no legal titip, but only an equity, this court holds, according to
previous decisions, that the petition and concession must be taken together,
in which case the result would be the same, viz: that the claimant must be
confined to two leagues.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Goold for the appellant, upon which
side there was also a brief by 19r. Volney E. Hfoward, and by
Mr. Stanton for the United States.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Yontz prosecutes this appeal as administrator of Jose
Dolores Pacheco, who died pending the suit below.
There is no controversy in relation to the validity of the
grant, but only as respects the quantity confirmed by the
District Court, being two square leagues. The claimant insists that he is entitled to a survey and patent from the United
States corresponding to the out-boundaries embraced in his
diseno, and the description given of the rancho in the Governor's grant, which recites: "Whereas citizen Jose Dolores
Pacheco has sought to obtain for his personal benefit and that
of his family the place lying between the 'creek or ravine' of
La Tasajera and the place of 'San Ramon,' bounded by the
house of the same place of San Ramon down to the 'dead
trees,' (palos secos,) and from this point, taking by the ' Tular'
to the 'high hill' (Loma Alta) along the creek or ravine of
said Tasajera, and along the range of hills (sierra) and the
land of citizen Bartolo Pacheco." After which the conditional clause follows, to wit: "The tract of which grant is made
is of the extent mentioned in the plan, which goes with the
expediente, with its respective boundaries. The officer giving
the possession shall cause it to be measured, according to the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

497

Iontz v. United States.

ordinance to mark boundaries; the surplus to remain for the
nation, for its uses."
Pacheco petitioned Governor Figueroa for two leagues of
land, in June, 1834, lying within the boundaries set forth in
the foregoing description and plan. He then failed to have
his petition favorably considered by the Governor, because opposition was made by the mission of San Jose.
On the 30th of November, 1837, Pacheco again petitioned
Governor Alvarado to grant him the same land; he says:
"At this time I confine the application for two leagues, more
or less, according to the boundaries of said mission of San
Jose to the south; the plan of which I'enclose herein again."
The Governor referred this second petition to the council of
San Jose, and they reported the land to be vacant, and that it
could be adjudicated for colonization. On this report the
Governor made the grant. It was confirmed by.the Departmental Assembly, May 12th, 1840, with directions, "that the
expediente be returned to his excellency the Governor, for the
proper ends." No final document in consummation of a perfect title issued to the grantee; nor was judicial possefision
given of the land, and in this unsurveyed condition the claim
stood when the United States acquired the country.
If we are bound to take the last paper issued by the Gevernor as concluding all reference to preceding steps in the
progress of obtaining a complete title, then we find the grant
inconsistent on its face. The argument urged on our consideration is, that there are specific boundaries given as to the
extent of the land granted, so that it is clearly a grant of all
the land within these prescribed limits. fn contravention of
this assumption, the clause above recited directs that the officer giving judicial possession shall cause the land to be measured, according to the ordinance, and to mark boundaries;
"the surplus to remain for the nation,for its uses." If it be true
that the boundaries are conclusively defined in the grant, then
no surplus could be thrown off by the survey. But if two
leagues are to be surveyed within the larger limits, then the
clause is consistent.
In the next place, it is insisted that the clause is a condition,
VOL.

xxMI.

32

SUPREME COURT.
ontz v. United States.

usual in all these grants, and amounts to little more! than a
mere formality. Ascribing to the clause usually declaring
quantity only this degree of credence, then we are thrown oh
the recitals of the grant, and bound to look behind it, to the
incipient steps, and to other title papers referred to, and from
all these to ascertain how much land was intended to be conceded.
The claimants come before us, presenting an equity; their
title not being completed, because the land has never been
surveyed, and severed from the public domain. Hanfsoji's
case, 16 Peters, 200; Rosa Pacheco's case, now decided.
We are called on to adjudge what the equities of claimants
are; and to do this, it is proper "to look at all the several parts
and ceremonies necessary -to complete the title, and to take
them together as one aet." 10 How., 372.
This court has uniformly held, in cases coming up by appeal
from the District Courts of Missouri and Florida, which adjudicated Spanish claims under the act of 1824, that the petition
to the Governor for land and his concession must be taken as
one act, and the decree usually proceeded on the petition,
which described the land as respected locality and quantity.
This was necessarily so, as the concession was often a mere
grant of the request, without other description than the petition contained.
And this is manifestly one of the rules of decision governing
the tribunals in California, prescribed by the 11th section of
the act of March 3d, 1851. In this case the grant refers to the
previous steps, (including the petition, asking for only two
leagues,) and carries them along with the grant.
From all the acts, taken together, it is manifest that the de
cree of the District Court, restricting the quantity to two
square leagues, must be- affirmed, if so much land is found
within the out-boundafies of the tract of country set forth in
the grant and diseno; otherwise, the less quantity.

