DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
liddldon r. He Grew.

has made good delivery of her cargo to the consignees according to the exigency of her bill of lading, and that the decree
of the Circuit Court should be reversed, and the libel dismissed with costs.

REUBEN
m

IDDLETON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAm

MoGRE .

The alien heirs of a colonist in Texas who died intestate in 1835, cannot ifherit his landed property there. The courts of Texas have so decided, and
this court adopts their decisions.

THis case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Texas.
It was an action of trespass to try title brought by Middleton, a citizen and resident of the State of Missouri, to recover
a tract of land in the county of Refugio, in the southern and
western margins of the San Antonio and Guadalupe rivers,
being the same land which was granted to a certain Joshua
Davis, by the proper authorities of the State of Coahuila and
Texas, in the colony of Power and Hewetson, and bounded
as follows, to wit: on the north by the rivers San Antonio
and Guadalupe, on the south by vacant lands, 6n the east by
the league of land 'granted to P. Hines, and on the west by
the league granted to Dofa Josefa Galan, widow of
Hernandez, deceased, having a front, when reduced to a
straight line, on said river, of about eight thousand eight
hundred and eighty-seven varas, and running back about
fourteen thousand and sixty varas, and containing five and
one-fourth leagues.
The anfended answer of the. defendant, McGrew, said that
the plaintiff ought not to have and maintain his action herein,
because he says that the said Joshua Davis, in the petition
named, under whom the plaintiff claimed, died in the year
1835. That his next of kin and pretended heirs, under whom
the plaintiff claims, were, at the date of his death, aliens to
the Republic of Mexico, being citizens of the United States
of America, residing in the State of Missouri, aw4 thencefor-

SUPREME COURT.
Iriddleton v. Ak Grew.

ward continued and remained aliens as aforesaid, and aliens
from the Republic of Texas, being citizens of the United
States, resident in the State of Missouri as aforesaid. And that
the said next of kin and pretended heirs did not at any time
prior to the annexation of Texas, or ever after, take possession
of the land sued for, and did not, prior to said annexation,
make sale of the same, but the said land remained, from the
time of the death of said Davis, continuously until the present
time, in the adverse peaceable possession of this defendant
and those under whom he claims, holding and claiming the
same adversely to the pretended right and title of the said
next of kin, which is the title under which plaintiff claims in
this suit, and this he is ready to verify. Wherefore he prays
judgment, &c.
After much evidence was given upon the trial, which it is
not necessary to recite, the court charged the jury, that if they
found by the evidence that Joshua Davis, the grantee under
whom the plaintiff claimed, departed this life in the year 1835,
having no other kindred than three brothers, citizens and
residents of the. United States, and aliens to Mexico, such
brothers, by reason of alienage, could not take real estate by
descent from him in Mexico. To the opinion of the court in
thus charging the jury, the said plaintiff excepted. Whereupon, the jury found a verdict for the defendant, and the
plaintiff brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Hughes for the plaintiff in -error, and
submitted on a printed argument by Mr. BallUinger for the defendant.
Mr. Hughes laid down the following propositions:
1. That, by the laws of Spain and of the Indies, a foreigner
domiciliated in a foreign country, in all times past, at least
from the time of Alonso el Sabeo, in the thirteenth century,
during whose reign the Siete Partidas was compiled, could
take as an heir to a person dying in Spain.
2. That this rule is not limited or changed by reason of anything in the colonization laws of Coahuila and Texas, or in

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Ntu'dldon v. MAc
Grew.

the judgments of the courts of Texas; whence it follows,
that9. The plaintiff ought to have recovered in the court below,
having derived his right from the brothers and heirs of thn
grantee, Joshua Davis.
As the arguments of the counsel upon these points, and
especially upon the construction of the judgments of the courts
of Texas, would be interesting only to the profession in that
State, they are omitted.

Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was instituted for the recovery of land in the
colony of Power and Hewetson, in Texas, in the possession of
the defendant, and claimed by the plaintiff through a conveyauce by the brothers of Joshua Davis, deceased, a colonist,
who died in June, 1835, intestate, and without issue. These
brothers were citizens of the United States, and assumed to
be the heirs-at-law of the decedent. The only question presented for the examination of this court is, whether the
brothers were capable of taking by inheritance real property
within the limits of Mexico, or were they disabled by their
condition as aliens? The solution of this question must be
found in the jurisprudence of Mexico, as it is understood and
applied to cases as they hiave arisen within the State of Texas.
If there is found in the decisions of the Supreme Court of that
State clear and consistent testimony to the existence of a rule
of descent, under such circumstances, the duty of this court will
be performed in ascertaining and enforcing that rule in this case.
The defendant has referred the court to a series of decisions
as containing such testimony.
The case of Hollornon v. Peebles, 1 Texas R., 673, was that
of heirs claiming the land of a colonist in the settlement of
Austin, who after his location had returned to the United
States and died, leaving heirs who were citizens of them.
The court intimate, that by the laws of Spain, as adopted in
Mexico, these heirs had no heritable blood, and proceed to
say: "Whatever may be the true .construction of the laws .of
Spain or of colonization on the subject matter, there can be

SUPREME COURT.
.Aiddldon v. HeGrew.

no doubt that the capacity of aliens to hold lands in the Republic of Mexico, if it ever existed under the laws of Spain,
was extinguished by the decree of the 12th March, 1828."
(4 vol. Ordenes y Decretos, p. 155.) The sixth article of this
decree is expressed in the following terms, viz:
"Foreigners introduced and established in conformity with
the regulations now prescribed, or which shall be hereafter
prescribed, are under the protection of the laws, and enjoy the
civil rights conferred by them upon Mexicans, with the exception of acquiring landed rural property, which, by the
existing laws, those not naturalized cannot obtain. * * *
This provision covers all acquisitions of real property, whether
by purchase or inheritance, and is so understood by the Mexican editor of Murillos de Testamentos."
The case of Yates v. Iams, 10 Tex. R., 168, was that of a
citizen of the United States claiming through an ancestor who
had died in 1827 in Texas, holding land by a head-right acquired in 1824. The court announce their conclusion, "that,
upon general principles pervading the law of 1823, under
which this grant was made, and upon the general policy of
the Government in relation to the right of property in lands
(granted for the purpose of colonization) at the time of the
death of the intestate, an heir domiciliated out of the Republic
of Mexico could acquire no right by inheritance to lands of
persons dying in the province of Texas."
The case of Hornsby v. Bacon, 20 Texas R., 556, was that
of citizens of the United States claiming to share as heirs in
real property of a citizen of Texas, who died in 1835, with
other relations of the same degree, who were citizens of Texas.
The court say: "The right of the plaintiff's vendors (the
alien heirs) to claim this land-by inheritance must be tested
by laws anterior to the Constitution of the Republic; and by
them, as appears from our previous decisions, such right can
not be sustained. The plaintiff can claim nothing through
them by his conveyance."
The case of Blythe v. Easterling, 20 Texas R., 565, is that
of heirs claiming the landed estate of an immigrant to Texas,
who died in November, 1833, they being aliens and non-resi-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

49

Oericks et al. v. Ford.

dents The court decide, "that it is too well settled by repeated decisions of this court to be longer regarded as an open
question, that at the period of the death of the decedent, his
heirs, being aliens, could not inherit his estate."
We understand these decisions to declare a law of descent
applicable to the landed property of Texas generally, and not
co lands in a particular colony, or settled under a particular
act of colonization. The case before the court falls within the
control of these decisions.
The judgment of the District Court is affirmed.

lRHxy OELRICKS

AND GUSTAV W.

LuRmAN, PLAINTIS IN

ERROR, V. BENJAIIN FORD.

Where there was a written contract for the delivery of a certain number of barrels of flour at a given price, to be delivered within a named time at tho
seller's option, and evidence was offered by the purchaser of an usage existing, that a margin should be put up, the court below was right in refusing to
allow this evidence to go to the jury, because it was too indefinite and uncer.
tain to establish an usage.
And, moreover, if the usage existed, the proof would have been inadmissible to
affect the construction of the contract, in which there was no ambiguity o)
doubt on the fdce of the instrument.
Any parol evidence of conversations or of an understanding of the parties thal
the contract was made subject to such an usage, was inadmissible, as thesr
were merged in the written instrument.
The contract was made in Baltimore, between the purchasers and an agent o
the seller, the seller residing in New York. The latter, and not the agent
was bound to bring the suit, as the character of the agent was disclosed ov
the face of the contract. There is no distinction in the principle governing
agencies of this description between the cases of a home or foreign principal

THIs czse was brought up by writ of error from the Circwi

Court of the United States for the district of MAaryland.
It was an action of assumpsit brought by-Ford, a citizen of
New York, against Oelricks & Lurman, merchants of Baltiimore, upon a contract in writing, made by the defendants,
who agreed to purchase from Bell, agent for Ford, ten thouband barrels~of flour, deliverable at seller's option at the prices
VOL. XXII.

'k

