SUPREME COURT.
Uni&d States v. CastilU'ro.

ited its sale.

Comet v. Winton, 2 Yerger's R., 148.

Blair

and Johnson v. Pathkiller's Lessee, 2 Yerger, 414. So far
from this being-the case in the instance beforQ us, it is manifest that sales of the reserved sections were contemplated, as
the lands ceded were forthwith to be surveyed, sold, and inhabited by a white population, among whom the Indians could
not remain.
We hold that Pet-chi-co was a tenant in common with the
United States, and could sell his reserved interest; and that
when the United States selected the lands reserved to him,
and made partition, (of whieh the patent is conclusive evidence,) his grantees took the interest he would have taken if
living.
We order the judgment to be affirmed.

THE

UmEFD

STATES, APPELLANTS, V. ANDRES 0ASTILLERO.

By a special dispatch from the Minister of the Interior, under the order of tha
Mexican President, dated 20th July, 1838, the Governor of California, with
the concurrence of the Departmental Assembly, was authorized to grant the
islands near the coast.
See the case of the United States v. Osio, reported in this volume.
On the same day, another special dispatch was sent, reserving out of the general
grant such island as Castillero might select, and directing a grant to be
made to him for it, which was done.
All the signatures being proved to be genuine, and the index of the concession
being found in its proper place amongst the Mexican archives, the claim of
the grantee must be confirmed.
There was no necessity, in this case, for the concurrence of the Departmental
Assembly.

THIs was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the southern district of California.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court
The claim was confirmed by the board of commissioners,
and likewise by the District Court. The United States appealed to this court, where it was argued by Mr. Stanton for
the appellants.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

465

Uwited Statex v. Cadtil~ei.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the District Court of the
United States for the southern district of California, affirming
a decree of the commissioners appointed under the act of the
third of March, 1851,. to ascertain and settle private land
claims.
Pursuant to -the eighth section of that act, the appellee in
this case presented his petition to the commissioners, claiming
title to the island of Santa Cruz, situated in the county of
Santa Barbara, in th4 State of California, by virtue of an
original grant from Governor Alvarado. All of the documentary evidences of title produced in the case are dulycertified copies of originals found in the Mexican archives, as
appears by the certificate of the surveyor general, which
makes a part of the record. They consist of a special dispatch
from the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Mexico,
addressed to Governor Alvarado; the petition of the claimant
to the same, and the original grant to the petitioner, which
purports to be signed by the Governor, and to be duly coun.
tersigned by the secretary of the Department. Certain -other
documents were also introduced, to which it will be necessary
to refer, as a part.of the proceedings that led to the grant.
Islands situated on the coast; it seems, were never granted
by the Governors of California or any of her authorities, under
the colonizaiion law of 1824, or the regulations of 1828. From
all that has been exhibited in cases of this description,, the
better opinion is, that .the power to grant the lands of the
islands was neither claimed nor exercised by the authorities
of the Department prior to the twentieth day of July, 1838,
as was satisfactorily shown in one or more cases heretofore
considered and decidd by this court.
On that day, the Minister of the Interior, by the. order of
the Mexican President, addiessed a communication to Governor Alvarado, authorizing him, in concurrence with the Departmental Assembly, to grant and distribute the lands of the
desert islands adjacent to that Department to the citizens of
the nation who might solicit the same. That dispatch bears
date at a period when -the President was in the exercise: of
VOL. xXtI.

30

SUPREME COURT.
United , ates v. ast l ro.

extraordinary powers, and was issued, as alpears by its recitals,
with a view to promote the settlement of the unoccupied
islands on the coast, and to prevent those exposed positions
from becoming places of rendezvous and shelter. for foreign
adventurers, who might desire to invade that remote Department. Grants made by the Governor, under the power conferred by that dispatch, without the concurrence of the Departmental.Assembly, were simply void, for the reason that
the power, being a special one, could only be exercised in the
manner-t-herein prescribed. It was so held by this court in
United States v. Osio, decided at the present term, and we are
satisfied that the decision was correct.
But the grant in this case was notmade under the general
authority conferred by that dispatch. In addition to what
was exhibited in the former case, it now appears that another
dispatch of a special character was addressed by the same
Cabinet Minister to the Governor on the same day. Like the
other, it bears date at the city. of Mexico, on the twentieth
day of July, 1838, and is signed by the Minister of the Interior.
By the terms of the communication, the Governor is informed
that the President, regarding the services rendered by this
claimant to the nation and to that Department as worthy of
great consideration and full recompense, has directed the Minister to recommend strongly to the Governor and the Departmental Assembly that one of the islands, such as the claimant
might select, near where he ought to reside with the troops
under his command, be assigned to him, before they proceed
to grant and distribute such lands, under the general authority
conferred by the previous dispatch.
Beyond question, the legal effect of that second communication was to withdraw such one of the islands as should thus
be selected by the claimant from the operation of the previous
order, and to direct that it be assigned to this claimant. His
attorney, accordingly, on the fifth day of March, 1839, presented his petition to the Governor, asking for a grant of the
island of Santa Catalina, which is situated in front of the
1oadstead of San Pedro, and requested that the expedients
might pass through the usual forms.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

467

United States v. Castillero.

In conformity to the prayer of the petition, the Governor,
on the same day, made a decree that a title of concession
should issue, and that the expediente should be perfected in
the usual way. Accompanying the order of concession there
is also a form of a grant of the island to the claimant; but it is
without any signatures, and does not appear ever to have been
completed.
On the seventeenth day of March, 1839, his attorney -in fact
presented another petition to the Governor, askifig for a grant
of the island of Santa Cruz, which, as he represents, is situated
in front of Santa Barbara, on the coast of that Department.
Both of these petitions are based upon the special dispatch
addressed to the Governor; and in the one last presented, the
claimant represents that the island previously offered is wholly unfit either for agricultural improvement or the raising of
stock, and for that reason prays, in effect, that the order of
concession may be so changed as to conform to his last-mentioned request. For aught that appears to the contrary, his
request was acceded to without hesitation, for, on the twentysecond day of May, 1839, the Governor made the grant, basing
it upon the special dispatch referred to in the petitioii.
To prove the authenticity of the dispatch and the genuineness of the grant, the petitioner called and examined Governor
Alvarado. He testified that he was acquainted with the handwriting of Joaquin Pesado, the Minister of the Interior, and
also with that of Manuel Jimeno, the secretary of the Department, who countersigned the grant. Both of these signatures,
as well as his own, he testified were genuine; and he also
stated that he recognised the document as a genuine instrument, and intended it at the time as a perfect and complete
title in the claimant. His testimony finds support in this case,
to some extent, by the fact that all the documentary evidences
of title, inlcuding the grant, were found in the Mexican archives; but much stronger confirmation of his statements is
derived from the record evidence which those archives are
found to contain.
At the argument, we were very properly furnished by the
counsel of the appellants with a copy of an index of conce.

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. CWWlo.

sions, prepared by the secretary of the Department. That
index covers the period from the tenth day of May, 1883, to
the twenty-fourth day of December, 1844. It contains a list
of four hundred and forty-three concessions, and among the
number is the one set up by the claimant in this case. Its
description in the index corresponds in all particulars with
the grant produced, except as to the date. As there given, it
is dated the fifth day of March, 1839, which is the true date
of the concession, under the first petition.
Considering that the name of the grantee and the descrip
tion of the premises agree with the grant produced in the case,
we think it a reasonable presumption that the error of date is
in the index, and not in the grant. For these reasons, we
think the genuineness of the documentary evidence of title is
satisfactorily proved. Having come to this conclusion, the
only remaining question is, whether the grant was made by
competent authority. Direction was given to the Governor
and the Departmental Assembly in the special dispatch on
which this grant was issued, that one of the islands, situated
along the coast bf the Department, should be assigned to this
claimant before they proceeded to grant and distribute such
lands under the general order. Those communications were
of the same date; but it is obvious, from the language of the
special dispatch, that it was issued subsequently to the other
communication, and must be regarded as qualifying the latter,
so far as their terms are repugnant. Had the claimant petitioned for a grant of this description, under the general order,
his application would have been addressed to the discretion
of the Governor and of the Departmental Assembly; and unless both had concurred in granting the prayer, his application
would have been defeated, for the reasou that such a title could
only be adjudicated by their concurrent action. Power to refuse such applications was vested in the Assembly as well as
in the Governor; but when both concurred, and the adjudication had been made, the title papers were properly to be issued
,by the Governor as an executive act. As the Assembly was
a constituent part of the granting power under the general
ordep, it was doubtless thought proper that the withdrawal of

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

469

Fery v. Watkins.

one' of the islands from its operation, and the disposal of it in
another way, should be notified to'the Assembly as well as to
the Governor. They were accordingly directed pot to proceed
to make adjudications under that order until the assignment
of the title to this claimant was perfected, but they were not
required to make the assignment or to cause it to be made.
To accomplish that purpose, and carry into effect the command of the President, two things only were necessary to be
done: one was to be performed by the claimant, and the other
was a mere ministerial act. It was the claimant who was to
make the selection; and if it was a proper one, near the place
where he was-stationed with his troops, nothing remained to be
done but to make the assignment as described in the dispatch.
Emanating as the dispatch did from the supreme power of the
nation, it operated of itself to adjudicate the title to the claimant, leaving no discretion to be exercised by the authorities
of the Department. Neither the Governor nor the Assembly,
nor both combined, could withhold the grant, after a proper

selection, without disobeying the express command of the supreme Government. Nothing therefore remained to be done,
after the selection by the claimant, but to issue the title papers,
and that was the proper duty of the Governor, as the executive organ of the Department. Nb doubt appears to have been
entertained of the justice of the claim, either by the commisBioners or the District. Court; and in view of all the-circumstances, we think their iespective decisions were correct. The
decree of the District Court is therefore affirmed.

MARTIN VERY, PLAINTI

IN ERRoR, V. GEORGE C. WATKINS.

Where a surety upon a bond is sued, a conversation between his co-surety (now
dead) and a third person is not admissible in evidence for the purpose of fixing a liability upon the defendant: The co-surety, if alive, would not himself
have been a good witness.
A paper in the handwriting of the co-surety, offered to impeach the testimony
of two witnesses, was not admissible.
Where a levy is made upon goods and chattels under a fi. fa., the officer may con.
fide them to another, for safe keeping; until there has been a settlement of the

