DECEMBER TERM, 1859

239

Hooiper et al. v. &lzeimer.

be seen in the case of McVoy v. Wheeler, 6 Porter, 201. It
is discussed, with a very accurate discrimination of its application, in the 2d vol. of Professor Parsons upon Contracts.
In the trial of such an action, where the defence is not presented as a matter of set-off, arising on an independent contract, but for the purpose of reducing the plaintiff's damages,
because he had not complied with his cross obligations arising
on the same contract, the defendant may be allowed a recoupment from the damages claimed by the plaintiff for such loss
as she shall have sustained from the negligence of the plaintiff. Such evidence is allowed to prevent circuity of action,
and to prevent further litigation upou the same matter. It
may be well to say, that the court allowed a recoupment in
Green and Biddle, 8 Wheat., 1, to a disseizor, who was a
bona fide occupant of land, for the improvement made by him
upon it, against the plaintiff's damages. But such recoupment cannot be claimed unless the defendant shall file a definite statement of his claims, with notice of it to the plaintiff,
sufficiently in time before the trial term of the case to enable
the latter to meet the matter with proof on his side.
We have pursued the case in hand further than may have
been necessary; but it was thought best to do so, as the points
now here ruled have not before been expressly under the consideration of this court.
The judgment given in the court below is reversed; and we
shall order that the case shall be remanded to it, with directions for its trial again, pursuant to our rulngs in this
opinion.

NIATHAN E. HOOPER, LOUISA T. HOOPER, AND AMANDA E. HoopER, MiNORS, BY ABSALOM FOWLER, THEIR NEXT FRIEND, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JACOB SCHEIMER.
Rt is the settled doctrine of this court, that no action of ejectment will lie on an
entry made with the register and receiver of the land office, such being merely
an equitable title, notwithstanding a State Legislature may have provided
otherwise by statute.

SUPREME COUIvT.
Hooper et al. v. Scheimer.
The law is only binding on the State courts, and has no force in the Circuit
Courts of the Union.
It is also the settled doctrine of this court, that a patent carries the fee, and is the
best title known to a court of law.

Tnis case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Arkansas.
It Was an ejectment brought by the Hoopers against Scheimer, for an undivided one-fourth part of lots numbered one,
two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, and
twelve, in block numbered ten, in that part of the city of Little
Rock lying east of the Quapaw line, and known as Governor
Pope's addition; and are embraced in the northwest fractional
quarter of section number two, in township one north, range
twelve west.
The plea was, not guilty, &c.; and upon the trial of the issue
by a jury, a verdict for the defendant was returned, and he
had judgment for costs.
The mode of bringing an ejectment in Arkansas is merely
to state in the declaration that the plaintiff was entitled to the
possession of the property, and that the defendant entered upon
it and ejected the plaintiff therefrom.
The Hoopers were the heirs of Cloyes, and claimed under
his pre-emption, which has been, mentioned more than once'in
these reports.
The defendant claimed under a patent embracing the lots
in controversy, to the reading of which in evidence the plaintiffs objected, on the ground that it was inoperative and void
as to the said northwest fractional quarter on which said preemption had been established, because said fractional quarter
had been previously appropriated to the private use of said
Nathan Cloyes, deceased, and that such patent had been issued
without authority, in violation and without warrant of law, and
for land not subject to be granted or patented; but the court
overruled the objection, and permitted the patent to be read;
whereupon the plaintiffs excepted.
There was other evidence on both sides given upon the trial,
but it is not necessary to mention it in this report.
After the evidence was finished, the plaintiffs offered two

DECEMKBER TERM, 1859.

237

Hooperef al. v. Scheimer.

prayers to the court, the purport of which was to declare the
patent inoperative and void; which prayers were refused.
The defendant offered five which were granted, of which it is
only necessar, in this report, to notice the two following.
1. The patent from the United States, conveying the fee to
the northwest fractional quarter of sectibn two, in township
one north, of range twelve west, to the grantee therein named,
dated 2d November, 1833, not appearing to b6 void, is a complete and paramount legal title, and must prevail in this action
over the title of the plaiAtifil, and any equities that may exist
between parties behind it can only be assisted and be made
available in a court of chancery, but cannot affect the patent
in this action; and'if the jury believe that the undivid, i interest mentioned in the declaration is embraced in the patent
as a portion of the said tract of land, the finding of the jury
should be for the defendant.
2. That the action of ejectment is founded on the legal title,
and the plaintiffs must recover on the strength of their own
title; that a patent from the United States is a higher and
better legal title, and must prevail, in an action of ejectment,
over an entry with the register and receiver or a pre-emption
right under the laws of the United States, notwithstanding the
State statute may authorize an action of ejectment to be instituted on the latter, and maintained against any person not
holding under a superior title.
The case was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Stillwell for the plaintiffs in error, and Mr. Hernsteadfor the defendant.
Mr. Stillwell's first point was this: ean the plaintiffs, claiming under a grant of pre-emption, recover against the defendant, claiming under a patent issued subsequent to the pre-emption ?
We respectfully submit, that by the act of Congress of 29th
May, 1830, the X. W. fractional quarter section 2, 1 N., 12
W., was appropriatbd to the use of the occupant, Nathan
Cloyes, was not subject to be granted to any other person, by

SUPREME COURT.
Hooper el al. v. Scheiner.

Congress or any officer of the United States, until the expiration of the time allowed him to make payment therefor, by
that act and the act of 15th July, 1832; and it appearing that
payment was made by his heirs within the time, the patent
was void.
Perry v. O'Hanlon, 11 Missouri Rep., 595.
McAfee v. Keirn, 7 Smed. and Marsh Rep., 789.
Nicks v. Rector, 4 Ark. Rep., 283, 284.
Wynn v. Garland, 16 Ark. Rep., 454.
13 Pet. Rep., 513; 6 Ib., 738.
5 Wheat. Rep., 303.
Cromelin v. Waiter, 9 Ala. Rep., (N. S.,) 605.
Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 How. Rep., 318.
10 Smed. and Marsh, (Miss.,) 461.
7 Smed. and Marsh, (Miss.,) 366.
2 Laws Ins. and Ops., p. 16, No. 15.
2 Laws Ins. and Ops., No. 39, 40, p. 1045.
8 Mo. Rep., 94.
6 Cow. Rep., 282.
A pre-emption is a legal vested right.
9 How. U. S. R., 333.
4 Ark. Rep., 283.
The patent issued to Gov. Pope being void, as issued without authority, may be impeached in a court of law.
6 Cond. Rep., 358; 10 Johns. Rep., 26.
4 Cond. Rep., 653; 5 Cond Rep., 724, 664.
11 Mo. Rep., 595; 16 Ohio Rep., 66.
8 Mo. Rep., 94.
Under the statute of Arkansas, the patent certificate is of
equal grade and dignity with the patent itself.
Rev. Stat. of Ark., p. 344, ch. 53, sees. 1 and 2.
McClairen v. Wicker, 8 Ark. Rep., 195.
Penn v. O'tlanlon, 11 Mo. Rep., 595.
Morton v. D-lankenship, 5 Ib. Rep., 356.
Burner v. Marlow, 1 Scum. (Ill.) PRep., .162.
James v. Steel, 3 lb., 99.
And is a better title than a patent fbunded on a subsequent
entry, within the meaning of the statute.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

239

Hooper el al.v. ,ciTemer.

Pettigrew v. Shirley, 9 Mo. Rep., 688.
5 ib., 350; 11 ib., 595.
The patent could not affect the pre-existing title of the ancestor of the plaintiffs.
N. 0. v. Armas, 9 Pet. Rep., 236.
'U. S. v. Arredondo, 6 ib., 738.
Catlin v. Jackson, 8 Johns. Rep., 555.
Jackson v. Covey, ib., 888.
Fletcher v. Peck, 2 Cond. Rep., 321.
Wicks v. Rector, 4 Ark. Rep., 283.
And cxtraneous evidence was admissible to show that the
patent was void, for want of authority to issue it.
Polk's Lessee v. Wendell, 3 Cond. Rep., 294.
4 ib., 653.
2 How. U. S. Rep., 317, et seq.
Collins v. Beaumin, 1 Mo. Rep., 385, (540.)
The title of the plaintiffs related to the date of the pre-emption act, (29th May, 1830.) The making of proof of occupation and cultivation, the adjudication of the right by the land
officers, and the payment of the purchase money, were successive steps to perfect the right, and are to be regarded as
having been done on that day.
Pettigrew v. Shirley, 9 Mo. Rep., 688.
Wynn v. Garland, 16 Ark. Rep., 454.
And, consequently, the intervening rights cut out.
Landes v. Brant, 10 How. Rep., 372.
12 Mo. Rep., 148; Walker's (Miss.) Rep., 97.
3 Cow. Rep., 75; Viner's Abr., Tit. Relation, 290.
Cruise on Real Property, vol. 5, p. 510, et seq.
When the patent was issued, the land had been appropriated, and was not subject to grant; and it ought to have been
excluded by the Circuit Court, or the jury instructed to disregard it, as the plaintifls asked. The act of issuing it was amere
ministerial act, and, as to the rights of the plaintiffs' ances
tors, was wholly ineffectual to prejudice them.
Ware v. Busk,1 McLean's Rep., 535.

Mr. lernpsteadtreated this point as follows:

SUPREME COURT.
Hooper et al. v. &heimer.

The first and principal question is, whether a patent issued
by the United States can be impeached, annulled, and set
aside, in an action at law.
I affirm that a patent is unimpeachable at law, except, perhaps, when it appears on its own face to be void; and the
authorities on this point are so uniform and unbroken in the
courts, Federal and State, that little else will be necessary
beyond a reference to them.
In ejeetment, the rule is universal, that the plaintiff must
show the right to possession to be in himself positively. It is
immaterial, as to his right of recovery, whether it be out of the
tenant or not, if it be not in himself; and it follows, a tenant
is always at liberty to prove the title out of the plaintiff, although he does not prove it to exist in himself.
Love v. Simms, 9 Wheat., 524.
Greenleaf's Lessee v. Birth, 6 Pet., 312.
King v. Stevens, 18 Ala., 475.
Rupert v. Mark, 15 Illinois, 540.
1 Blackf, 131; 8 Blackf., 320, 366.
And this grows out of a doctrine, universal in that action,
requiring the plaintiff to recover on the strength of his own
title, and not allowing him to be successful, on account of the
weakness of the title of the defendant, or because he may have
none at all.
2 Greenl. Ev., 331.
Marsh v. Brooks, 8 How., 233.
In Kentucky, it is a settled principle that courts of law will
not look beyond the patent, and it is only in a court of equity
that a prior right or equity can be established. The courts of
the United States have adopted the same principle.
Finley v. Williams, 9 Cranch, 167.
The general rule in Kentucky appears to be, that patents
cannot be impeached collaterally by evidence dehors the patent.
They have the dignity of records. It is true a patent, when
it appears on its face to be illegal, may be treated as a nullity,
or considered as void; yet, if it appears perfect on its face, it
cannot be vacated or annulled by matter dehors the patent. It
is only by scirefacias, or other regular mode, that it can be

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

241

Hoyer et al. v. Schemer.

vacated. The reason of the distinction is evident. The Commonwealtb cannot be divested of her title but by matter of
record; and when she has so divested herself, she cannot regularly reinvest herself of the title but by matter of record. If
a patent be illegal upon its face, it is itself record evidence
of the matter which renders it a nullity; but if it be legal and
perfect upon its face, it is a record of the title having passed
to the grantee, and it cannot regularly be defeated but by
matter of as high a nature.
Bledsoe's Devisees v. Wells., I Bibb, 829.
The same doctrine will be found explicitly recognised in
Virginia, in Alexander v. Greenup, I Munf., 184.
It is fully supported by the English authorities.
5 Com. Dig., F. 1, F. 4, F. 6, F. 7, title Patent
2 Bl. Com., 346.
A patent is a record of high dignity. It issues under the
great seal, is emlled, and the proceeding to vacate or annul
it must emanate from chancery, and may be set on foot by the
Government, or any one prejudiced.
5 Com. Dig. Patent, F. 6, p. 857.
2 Com. Dig. Chancery, C. 1, p. 866.
Taylor v. Fletcher, 7 B. Monroe, 81.
There are certain exceptions to this rule, which may go far
towards reconciling contradictory cases :.
1. Where the Legislature has declared that the patent shall
be void, if issued in contravention of a described state of case.
2. Where the Legislature has declared that the patent shall
be deemed fraudulent, if issued under similar circumstances.
Taylor v. Fletcher, 7 B. Monroe, 83.
Ray v. Barker, 1 B. Monroe, 868.
Dallam v. Handley, 2 A. K. Marsh., 418.
Atchley v. Latham, 2 Litt., 862.
Jennings v. Whittaker, 4 B. Monroe, 51.
Pearson v. Baker, 4 Dana, 822.
Cain v. Flynn, 4 Dana, 501.
Sutton v. Mencer, 6 B. Monroe. 438.
Little v. Bishop, 9 B. Monroe, 246.
A patent cannot be declared void at law, because the patvoL . Xxiii.

16

SUPREME COURT.
Hooper et al. v. Scheimer.

entee failed to give one in actual possession the three months'
notice required by the act of 1831, (2 Stat. Law, 1037;) but
the settlers' rights under the act may be enforced in chancery.
Pearson v. Baker, 4 Dana, 321.
A party cannot travel behind a patent to avoid it.
4 Monroe, 51.
A patent, when attacked incidentally, cannot be declared
void, unless it be procured by actual fraud, or is void on its
face, or has been declared void by law.
Underwood v. Crutcher,. 7 J. J. Marsh., 532.
A patent cannot be avoided at law in a collateral proceeding, by matters dehors the patent, unless it is declared void by
statute, or its nullity indicated by some equally explicit statutory denunciation.
4 Bibb, 330; 4 Mon., 51; 4 Dana, 322.
In Pennsylvania, where there are no courts of chancery, an
action of ejectment may be sustained on an equitable title; but
the rule always has been there, in the courts of the United
States, that the plaintiff must show a paramount legal title.
2 Wash. 0. 0. R., 35.
12 Peters, 23.
Although State courts cannot interfere with the primary
disposal of the public land, yet, if one obtain a legal title from
the United States improperly, and to the prejudice of a prior
right, equity will relieve and hold him as a trustee.
Groves's Heirs r. Fulsome, 16 Miss., 544.
Huntsucker v. Clark, 12 Miss., 337.
Stekhenson v. Smith, 7 Miss., 610.
Gaines v. Hale, 16 Ark., 25.
It is only where letters patent are void on their face, as
being issued contrary to law, or where the grant is of an
estate contrary to law, as against the prohibition of a statute,
that it possibly may be held void in a collateral proceeding.
Jackson v. Marsh., 6 Cowen, 282.
Jackson v. Lawton, 10 Johns., 23.
Parmlee v. Oswego Co., 7 Barb., 622.
The People v. Livingston, 8 Barb., 278, 284, 285, 286;
287, 295.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Hooper et al. v. Scleimer.

Jackson v Hart, 12 Johns., 77.
People v. Mauran, 5 Denio, 389, 398, 400.
A patent must prevail in a trial at law, unless it is in fact a
felo de se-unless it carries on its own face the evidence of a
nullity. One perfect on its face is not to be avoided, in a trial
at law, by anything short of an elder patent. It is not to be
affected by evidence or circumstances which might'show that,
in a court of equity, the party offering impeaching evidence
would probably prevail. The jurisdictions of the two tribunals must be kept. distinct, aid the patent must prevail at law,
although it may be made to yield to the superior right of the
adverse party in another forum. In the case of an actual and
perfect patent, there is no remedy but to set it aside in a court
of equity, or in some direct proceeding having that for its
direct end and object. It cannot be done in the ordinary
progress of a trial at law, on evidence which the party had no
means to know would be relied on, and therefore could not
be prepared to meet. In other words, you cannot go behind
a patent in a trial at law. The patent alone must prevail.
The principle interdicting the introduction of extrinsic evidence to impeach a patent free from objection on its face, does
not depend on the grade or nature of the evidence.
Norvell v. Camm, 6 Munf., 233, 238.
Witherington v. McDonald, 1 Hen. and Munf., 303.
Alexander v. Gieenup, 1 Munf., 140.
The same doctrine was laid down by Marshall, 0. J., in
Stringer v. Lessee of Young, 3 Peters, 340. He said no case
had shown that a patent may be impeached at law, unless it be
for fraud-not legal and technical, but actual and positive
fraud, in fact, committed by the person who obtained it; and
even that, said he, is questioned, citing the above case of
Witberington v. McDonald, 1 H. and M., 306; also Hoofnagle
v. Anderson, 7 Wheat., 212; Boardman v. Reed, 6 Pet., 342;
6 Cranch, 131; 8 How., 233; Patterson v. Winn, 11 Wheat.,
380. The opinion of the Chief Justice evidently was, that a
patent could not be impeached at law, even for fraud-actual,
positive fraud. It has been said, a patent is void and confers
no title when it issues for land that has beun previously pat-

244

SUPREME oqURT.
Hocper et aZ. v. &che'mer.

ented to another individual, or granted to him by act of Con.
gress, which is equivalent to a patent.
Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 How., 818.
Grignon v. Astor, ib., 44.
Why is this so? Why, under such circumstances, may a
patent be held inoperative at law? Those cases themselves
answer-because the fee has passed out of the United States,
and vested in the first patentee or grantee.
18 How., 88; 9 Cranch, 99.
Those cases do not warrant, nor are there any cases to be
found in the courts of the United States which warrant, the
impeachment of a patent, at law, in a case where a pre-emptioner claims in opposition to that patent. Resort must be
had to a court of equity, and to that alone.
An elder equitable right may be investigated, and asserted
in chancery against a patent, but this cannot be done at law.
This court, says McLEAN, J., (6 Peters, 342,) have repeatedly
decided that, at law, no facts behind the patent can be investigated.
A patent is a better legal title than an entry with the register and receiver, and in an action of ejectment must prevail
over it.
Gaines v. Hale, 16 Ark., 25.
Griffith v. Deerfelt, 17 Miss., 31.
Dickinson v. Brown, 9 S. and M., 130.
Bruckner v. Lawrence, 1 Doug. (Mich.,) 87.
Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Peters, 486.
Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Peters, 516.
Wiggins v. Lusk, 12 Ill., 132.
A patent is evidence, in a court of law, of the regularity of
all previous steps to it, and no facts behind it can be investigated.
6 Peters, 724; 5 Wheat., 293.
7 Wheat., 151; 11 Wheat., 580; 4 Peters, 840.
In actions at law, the legal title must prevail, and there can
be no inquiry into the equities of the parties. They must be
ascertained and adjusted in r court of equity. Where land is
purchased in the name of one person, with the funds of ai,-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

245

Hffooper et aL v. Scleimer.

other, the legal estate is vested in the former. The latter acquires only an equitable estate, and he must resort to a court
of equity to enforce it, and cannot assert it in an action of
ejectment.
Phelps v. Kellogg, 15 Ill. R., 186.
No equitable title can be set up in ejectment, in opposition
to the legal estate.
Jackson v. Chase, 2 Johns., 84.
Jackson v. Pierce, ib., 222.
To recover in ejectment, the plaintiff must show a paramount legal title.
Swayze v. Burke, 12 Peters, 23.
A patent is conclusive in a court of law.
West v. Cochran, 17 How., 403.
14 How., 382; 15 How., 450.
The legal title must prevail at law.
13 How., 24; 11 How., 568.
9 How., 171; 8 How., 365.
A plaintiff must recover upon the strength of his title, and
that must be a legal as contradistinguished from an equitable
title.
Livingston v. Story, 9 Peters, 632.
United States v. King, 7 How., 846.
Gilmer v. Poindexter, 10 How., 297.
The fee remains in the United States until the issuing of the
patent, and it must be so considered at law, although in equity
the holder-of the patent certificate of the register is held to be
the owner.
Carroll v. Safford, 3 How., 460, 461.
Fraud, which goes to the question, whether the instrument
ever had any legal existence, may be admitted in a court of
law. But, otherwise, chancery is the proper forum.
Hartshorn v. Day, 19 How., 21,1, 223.
A patent cannot be collaterally avoided at law, 'even for
fraud.
Field v. Seabury, 19 How., 824, 332.
This case is conclusive on the subject, and it was said that
the case in 2 How. S.0. R., 318, did not authorize the im.

SUPREME COURT.
Hooper et al. v. Scheimer.

peachment of a patent at law. Courts of justice have no authority to disregard surveys and patents, when dealing with
them in actions of ejectment.
West v. Cochran, 17 How., 403.
Willet v. Sandford, 19 How., 82.
The Legislature of Arkansas has provided that an action of
ejectment may be maintaincd on an entry made with the
register and receiver of the proper land office of the United
States, or on a pre-emption right under the laws of the United
States.
Digest, 454.
But a patent, being a superior legal title, must, of course,
prevail over them; nor would it be competent for any State
legislation to give such titles, which are only of an equitable
nature, precedence over the legal title.
Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Peters, 516.
Irvine v. Marshall, 20 How., 566.
Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Peters, 450, 451.
And although actions of ejectment may be maintained on
an equitable title, or less than a complete legal title, in the
State courts, by virtue of positive legislation, yet it may admit
of great doubt, whether, in the courts of the United States,
that action can be sustained on anything but the paramount
legal title. Such I understand to have been decided.
In Carson's Lessee v. Boudinot, 2 Wash. C. C. R., 33, Judge
Washington so held, although, there being no courts of
chancery in Pennsylvania, the State courts allow a recovery
in ejectment on an equitable title.
And, also, in Swayze v. Burke, 12 Peters, 23, also from
Pennsylvania, it was held by this court, Justice McLEAN delivering the opinion, that, "as there is no court of chancery
under the laws of Pennsylvania, an action of ejeetment is sustained on an equitable title by the courts of that State. Such
is not the practice in the courts of the United States; and ii,
this case," says he, "if the plaintiffs fail to show a para
mount legal title in themselves, they cannot recover."
Certainly the action never can be maintained against the
superior title-certainly the dignity of a patent can never be

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

247

Hooper et al. v. Schimer.

imparted to the certificate of purchase; or, to what is a title
of inferior grade, a pre-emption right.
Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Peters, 450.
What security would there be in titles, if, in actions at law,
juries should undertake to pronounce on the validity of
patents-undertake to say whether they rightfully or wrongfully issued-or whether the officers of Government had proceeded according to law, and, if not in a collateral proceeding,
a trial at nisiprius, annul the highest and most solemn titles
emanating from Government? Here is a patent from the
United States, regularly issued, under the great seal, signed
by the President, and having passed through all the formalities requisite to make it the highest and most perfect evidence
of title that can possibly exist, under any Government-regular and formal on its face-and the proposition is, that a jury,
ignorant of law and legal proceedings-composed, it may be,
of persons not fit to try a six-bit case-are to pronounce upon
its validity, and avoid it, if they please. ' What they might
think to be fraud, might be no fraud at all; there might be
ample power in the officer to issue it, and yet the jury might
think otherwise. One-jury might set aside a patent-another
jury sustain it; and so, what oght'to be the highest evidence
of right, is something, or nothing, according to the whim,
caprice, intelligence, or ignorance, of the jury. The whole
thing is absurd; everybody sees it; and such a doctrine ought
to. receive no countenance whatever. If a patent issued, in
many cases, after a long contest, and against vehement opposition, as this was issued, is not to import' absolute verity at
law, the issuing of patents ought to cease altogether; as they would only delude the purchaser; if, indeed, the disappointed
contestant, in each case, could, the next day, in effect, take an
appeal from a solemn act of Government to a jury, and reinvestigate the whole matter, and have the patent "avoided at
law. A claimant, disappointed in obtaining a patent himself,
and his adversary having got it, forthwith brings an action, of
ejectmeut, and transferi the question to a jury, and reopens-it
again, with a view of having the patent annulled; in a forum
where no issue can be made upon it, nor parties in interest

SUPREME COURT.
,ooper et al. v. Scheimer.

brought before the court. I say again, the whole thing is
absurd. If a patent is to be impeached or annulled, it can
only be done by a direct proceeding in chancery for that purpose, and where all parties in interest can be brought, and
their respective rights ascertained and protected. And to
that forum these claimants resorted; and, after full investigation, the pre-emption claim was declared fraudulent, and
the patent to be good; and they then commenced again at
law to retry that question, and want to have a jury decide it,
when they have failed in the proper tribunal. I have no idea
parties can be successful in the attempt to commit such legal
outrages.

The instructions given on that point are sustained by both
principle and authority, and nothing further need be said to
demonstrate their correctness.
.2. The right forum to impeach the patent was a court of
chancery, and that had been resorted to, and the pre-emption
claim of Cloyes declared invalid, and to be in fact a base fraud,
as the proof in the chancery case conclusively showed it was.
Lytle et al. v. the State et al., 17 -Ark., 608. See transcript in this court, No. 123.
It was purely vexatious to bring this ejectment suit, and the
plaintiffs hdd no right to do it, as the same matter was involved
in their chancery suit.
Mason ?f. Chambers, 4 J. J. Marsh., 401
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the fourt.
An action of ejectment was brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for eastern district of Arkansas, founded on
an entry made in a United States laud office. This was the
only title produced on the trial by the plaintifl.
The defendant held- possession under a patent from the
United States to John Pope, (Governor, &c.,) with which the
defendant connected himself by a regular chain of conveyances.
The Circuit Court held the patent to be the better legal title,
and so instructed the jury, who found for the defendant; and
the plaintiffs prosecute this writ of error to rdverse that j udgment.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

249

United States v. White.

By the statute of Arkansas, an action of ejectment may be
maintained where the plaintiff claims possession by virtue of
an entry made with the register and receiver of the proper
land office of the United States. Ar. Digest, 454.
This court -held, in the case of Bagnell et al. v. Broderick,
(13 Peters, 450,) "that Congress had the sole power to declare
the dignity and effect of a patent issuing from the United
States; that a patent carries the fee, and is the best title
known to a court of law." Such is the settled doctrine of
this court.
But there is another question, standing in advance of the
foregoing, to wit: Can an action of ejectment be maintained
in the Federal courts against a defendant in possession, on an
entry made with the register and receiver?
It is also the settled doctrine of this court, that no action of
ejectment will lie on such an equitable title, notwithstanding
a State Legislature may have provided otherwise by statute.
The law is only binding on the State courts, and has no force
in the Circuit Courts of the Union. Fenn v. Holme, (21 How.,
482.)
It is ordered, that the judgment be affirmed.
No. 60 depends on the same titles and facts and instructions
to the jury as are set forth in 59; and the same verdict and
judgment were given in the Circuit Court.
We order it to be affirmed likewise.

THE

UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. ELLEN E. WHITE,
M TISTRATRIX OF CHAiRLES WHITE. DECEASED.

Al).

Where two persons appear to have conflicting claims to land in California, and
the United States do not appear t6 have any interest in the matter, and the
case is brought to this court by proceedings to which the United States are a
party, this court will remand the record to the court in California, with directions to allow the contesting parties to proceed in the manner pointed out by
the act of Congress passed in 1851.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.

