DECEMBER TERM, -1859.
.finturm v. Larue et al.

tions of the Circuit Court were correct, and refer to those reasons for the grounds on which the conclusion in this case rests.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, with
costs.

EDWARD MINTURN, COMPLAINANT AND APPELLANT, V. JA31ES B.
LARUE, CARLISLE P. PATTERSON, AND JOHN R. FOURATT.
The charter of the town (now city) of Oakland, in California, which conferred
upon the corporation power to regulate ferries, did not give an exclusive
power, and therefore the corporation did not possess the power to confer upon
others an exclusive privilege to establish them.
The difference pointed out between this charter and those grants which are exclusive.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
Minturn filed his bill against the defendants, claiming a
right, under the authorities of the town of .Oakland, to establish a ferry, exclusively, between the city of San Francisco and
the city of Oakland. The bill prayed for a perpetual injunction to restrain the defendants from running the steamboat
San Antonio or any other steamboat or vessel between the
two places. The defendants demurred to the bill, and the
Circuit Court sustained the demurrer. The complainant appealed to this court.
The case was argued by Mr. Johnson for the appellant, and
by Mr. Stanton for the appellecs.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of California.
The bill was filed by the complainant in the court below to
restrain the defendants from running a ferry between the city
of San .Francisco and the city of Oakland, on the opposite side
of the bay, and which, it is claimed, is in violation of the ex-

SUPREME COURT.
.Minturn v. Larue et a.

elusive privileges belonging to him under the authority of
law. The authority, as set forth in the bill, is derived from
the charter of the town (now city) of Oakland. The 3d sec.
tion of the charter (passed May 4, 1852) provided that "the
board of trustees shall have power to make such by-laws and
ordinances as they may deem proper and necessary;" among
other things, "to lay out, make, open, widen, regulate, and
keep in repair, all streets, roads, bridges, ferries," &c., "wharves,
docks, piers, slips," &c.; "and to authorize the construction
of the same;" "and with a view to facilitate the construction
of wharves and other improvements, the lands lying within
the limits aforesaid, (that is, of the corporation,) between high
tide and ship channel, are hereby granted and released to said
town."
It is admitted, if the authorities of the town of Oakland pos.
sessed the power under the charter to grant an exclusive right
of ferries between that place and the city of San Francisco, the
complainant has become vested with it. The question in the
case, therefore, is, whether or not the power was conferred by
this 3d section of the charter.
It is a well-settled rule of construction of grants by the Legislature to corporations, whether public or private, that only
such powers and rights can be exercised under them as are
clearly comprehended within the words of the act or derived
therefrom by necessary implication, regard being had to the
objects of the grant. Any ambiguity or doubt arising out of
the terms used by the Legislature must be resolved in favor of
the public. This principle has been so often applied in the
construction of corporate powers, that we need not stop to refer
to authorities.
Now, looking at the terms of the grant in this case, and
giving to them their widest meaning either separately or in
the connection in which they are found, or with the object for
which the power was conferred, we find, indeed, a power to
establish and regulate ferries within the corporate limits of
the town, but not an exclusive power. Full effect is given to
the words in which the power is granted, when the simple
right is conceded to establish and regulate ferries. If the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Iiturn v. Lam~e d

a7

grant had been made to an individual in the terms here used,
the question would have been too plain for-argument. In our
judgment, it can have no wider interpretation, though made
to a corporation. It must be remembered that this is not the
case where the Crown or the Legislature has aliened to a municipal corporation its whole power to establish and regulate
ferries within its limits, as may be found in some of the ancient
charters of cities in England and in this country. In those
cases, the municipal body, in respect to this legislative or
public trust, represents the sovereign power, and may make
grants of ferry rights in as ample a manner as the sovereign.
The error, we think, in the argument for the appellant is, in
confounding this grant with these ancient charters, or those
of a like character. But on referring to them, it will be seen
that the form of the grant is very di~ffernt, much more particular and comprehensive, laving no doubt as to the extent
of the power. (25 Wend. R., 681, Costar t. Brush.) So.here:
if the Legislature had intended to confer their whole power
upon this corporation to establish and regdlate ferries within
its limits, or a power to grant exclusiie ferry rights therein, a
very different form of grant would have been used-one that
would have expressed the intent of the law maker to part with
the exclusive-power over the subject, and vest it in the grantee.
In the form"used, no such intent appears or can be reached,
except by a very forced interpretation, which we are not at
liberty to give, according to well-settled authority. (11 Pet.,
422; 8 How., 569; Mills et al. v. St. Clair Co. et al., 16 ib.,
524, 534; Fanning v. Gregoire.)
In Mills v. St. Clair Co., the court, speaking of a ferry grant,
said that in a grant like this by the sovereign power, the rule
of construction is, that if the meaning of the words be doubtful, they shall be taken most strongly against the grantee and
for the Government, and therefore should not be extended by
implication beyond the. natural and obvious meaning of the
words; and if these do not support the claim, it must fall.
And again, in Fanning v. Gregoire, speaking on the same
subject, the court say: The exclusive right set up must be
clearly expresstd or necessarily inferred, and the- court think

SUPREME COURT.
Castro v. Hendricks.

that neither the one nor the other is found in the grant to the
plaintiff, nor in the circumstances connected with it.
As the town of Oakland had no power, according to the
above construction of the charter, to establish an exclusive
right of ferries within its limits, it follows that it did not possess the power to confer upon others an exclusive privilege to
establish them.
The power conferred is to make (meaning to establish) and
regulate ferries, or to authorize the construction (meaning the
establishment) of the same.
We think the court below was right, and that the decree
must be affirmed.

SALVADOR CASTRO, APPELLANT, V. THOMAS

A.

HEtDRICKS, COM-

MISSIONER OF THE GENERAL LAND OFFICE.
Where there were *two separate claimants of land in California, both claiming
under one original grant, and the surveyor, in running out their lines, disregarded the limits of the original grant, and included within one of the surveys
a large portion of Government land, the Commissioner of the General Land
Office was right in refusing to issue a patent founded on such erroneous
survey.

THIS was al appeal from the Circuit Court bf the United
States for the District of Columbia.
It was a petitioh to the Circuit Court for a mandamus to
Hendricks, commanding him to prepare a patent for some
land in California; secondly, to cause said patent, when ready
for the requisite signatures of the appropriate officers, to be
presented to the recorder of the land office and the President
of the United States, or other proper officers of the Government, for their respective signatures; thirdly, to deliver the
patent so prepared and duly subscribed to the petitioner.
A rule was laid upon the Commissioner to show cause why
a mandamus should not issue as prayed. On the 10th of June,
1858, he filed his answer and exhibits. Whereupon the court
adjudged that the cause shown was sufficient, and dismissed
.the petition. The petitioner appealed to this court.

