SUPREME COURT.
Castle et al. v. Bullard.

try, then, in addition to the duties imposed by law upon the
value of the same, there shall be levied, collected, and paid, a
duty of twenty per centum ad valorem on such appraised value.
That the additional value of twenty per ceutum could only be
levied upon the appraised value, and not upon charges and
commissions added to it. Also, that the day of the sailing of
a vessel from a foreign port is the true period of exportation
of the goods; and that the Secretary of the Treasury had
given a proper interpretation of the statute, in directing it to
be done on the market value of the goods imported on the
day of the sailing of the vessel, and that he was authorized by
law to give such a direction.
We see no cause now for a different interpretation of the
statute, and direct that the question certified to this court be
answered, "that the duties upon foreign merchandise are to
be computed on their value on the day of the sailing of the
vessel from the foreign port, and that the value for the compution is the wholesale market price there on such day."

EDWARD

I. CASTLE, ELIHU

GRANGER, AND J. P. PIrLLIPs, suR-

VIVORS OF JOSEPH FILKINS, DECEASED, PLAINTIFFS IN ERR6R,

v. EDWARD

F. BULLARD.

The Circuit Courts of the United States have no power to grant a peremptory
nonsuit against the will of the plaintiff.
And where there are several defendants, against whom the charge is joint and
several, there cannot be, at common law, a nonsuit as to one and verdict
against the others, although the yerdict may be against one and in favor of
the others.
And besides, in thL case, there was evidence for the jury to say whether the
party, in whose favor the nonsuit was prayed, was guilty or not.
Where several defendants are joined in an action of trespass, a verdict of acquittal against one, in order to make him a witness, can only be demanded
where there is no evidence against him. The cases upon this point examined.
Where the cause of action against the defendants was, that they had fraudulently sold the goods of the plaintiff, evidence was admissible that they bad
committed similar fraudulent acts at or about the same time, with a view to

DECEMER TERM, 1859.

178

CastZe et aZ. v. Bulard_
establish the intent of the defendants with respect to the matters charged in
the declaration.
The cases upon this point examined.
So, also, evidence was admissible, to show that the purchaser was largely in
debt and insolvent, and that the defendants represented him to be in good
credit. The force and effect of such circumstantial evidence is for the jury
to judge of the intent.
If the-goods were fraudulently sold by one of the firm, and the firm received the
profits in the shape of commissions, all the partners aie responsible for the sale.
In the present case, the instructions given by the court below cannot justly be
complained of by the counsel, and moreover were accompanied by explanations which constitute a part of them.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the northern district of Illinois.
The plaintiffs in error were auctioneers and commission
merchants in Chicago, Illinois, the firm being composed of
Joseph Filkins, J. P. Phillips, Blihu Granger, and :Edward
H. Castle. An, action on the case was brought against them
by Bullard, a citizen of the State of New York. The declaration contained five counts, viz:
1. That these four defendants were partners, doing business
in Chicago, as auctioneers and commission merchants, under
the firm and name of Filkins, Phillips, & Co.; and
2. That certain goods of plaintiff were in the custody of
defendants, as such partners, for sale on commission.
3. That, as such partners, defendants sold them to Edmund
S. Castle.
4.. That E. S. Castle, at the time of the purchase, was msolvent, and not fit to be trusted.
5. That defendants knew at the time that E. S. Castle was
insolvent, and effected the sale fraudulently.
The plea of not guilty denied each of these allegations.
The verdict was for the plaintiff, in the sum of $2,983.32
and costs.
The bill of exceptions taken upon the trial occupied sixty
pages of the printed record, and recited substantially the evidence given to the jury.
In the course of the trial, the following proceedings took
place:

SUPREME COURT.
Cask et d. v. Bullrd.

Afer the evidence for the plaintiff had closed, and' he had
rested his case, there appeared to be no evidence connecting
Granger with the transAction, other than what might exist from
the fact of his being one of the partners.
And thereupon defendant, Elihu Granger, "noved the court
as follows: The defendant, Elihu Granger, moved the court
to direct the jury to render a verdict of nonsuit, or that the
court would order a nonsuit to be entered as to defendant,
Granger, upon the ground that the evidence given to the jury
by plaintiff did not tend to charge this defendant. This motion -the court overruled, and said defendant, Granger, then
and there excepted to the decision of the court. And thereupon all the defendants moved the court for a nonsuit as to
Granger, upon the ground that the evidence in the case did
not tend to charge him. This motion was overruled by the
court, to which decision of the court said defendants, and each
of them, then and there excepted; and thereupon said defendants asked the court that said jury might be permitted to
retire and consider whether they found the evidence in the
case sufficient to charge said defendant, Granger; and if not,
that the jury might find said Granger not guilty. And the
defendants, Castle, Filkins, and Phillips, each urged upon the
court, as a reason for this course, that they desired to use said
Granger as a witness for their deience if he should be acquitted; but the court overruled this application and motion, to
which decision the defendents excepted. Other exceptions
were taken as to matters of evidence which need not be here
recited.
After the evidence was tnished, the court gave the following instructions to the jury, which are inserted in order to
show the view of the court below, although the defendants
excepted only to the two first:
The court, after saying to the jury that the original an
amended declaration alleged in substance that the defendants
fraudulently sold the goods for plaintiff to an irresponsible
person, and also that, in consequence of false and fraudulent
representations made by them, the plaintiff consented to the
negotiation and sale by them of the goods to an insolvent per.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

175

Castle et al. v. BuZZard.

son, by which plaintiff sustained loss, and that one of these
allegations must be proved, among various other instructions,
gave the following to the jury:
1. If the goods were in the custody of the defendants for
sale on commission, and one or more of the partners made
false and fraudulent representations as to the party to whom
they were to be sold by the defendants, then the partnership
would be liable, if in consequence of such representations the
plaintiff consented to the sale to that party, and the sale was
actually made by the firm to the party.
2. If, however, these goods were not in the possession of
the defendants for sale, but were there merely for safe keeping, and one or more of the partners made.false and fraudulent representations as to the solvency of a person to whom it
was proposed to sell the goods, and in consequence of such
representations the goods were sold and delivered to that
person by the plaintiff, or he consented to their sale, then the
firm is not liable for such false and fraudulent- representations,
unless the firm, as a firm, were party to such representations.
That the false or fraudulent representations made by one of
several partners, in order to bind the firm, must be made in the
course of and in relation to the business of the firm.
3. If the sale was made by the plaintiff alone,°or by the
plaintiff through E. H. Castle as his agent, (acting in that
behalf, and not for the firm,) then, no matter what were the
representations by E. H. Castle, the jury must find for the
defendants.
4. Unless the sale was made or negotiated by the firm,.the
jury should find for the defendants.
5. That the fact of a guaranty of the payment of a debt by
Filkins is not evidence of fraud, nor of want of solvency at
that time. There is no presumption that the retuin of the
officer is untrue.
6. That, so far as the motives of the defendants are concerned, no fact proved is to be considered, unless the knowledge of such fact is brought home-to such defendants.
7. That all the subsaquent transactions mentioned by the
witnesses have nothing to do with the main fact of the case,

SUPREME COURT.
Castle et al. v.Bullard.

further than this: they are only circumstances to be considered, which may throw light upon the motives of the parties; that if the subsequent acts and declarations can be
accounted for reasonably without assuming a fraudulent motive in the transaction of the 8th November, such circumstances are not to be considered or regarded by the jury as
entitled to any weight. And they are to have no influence
until the jury are satisfied, from the evidence, that the sale
was made by or through the defendants, as commission merchants; that E. S. Castle was not responsible as a purchaser,
on the 8th of November, the time of sale, and that the defendants knew him to be irresponsible.
8. That, unless the jury believe that defendants acted
fraudulently, as charged in this declaration, it is entirely immaterial whether they, or any of them, acted fraudulently or
otherwise in after transactions, or other transactions.
9. That fraud could never be presumed, but must be clearly
proved, but it may be established circumstantially as well as
by direct proof.
To the first and second instructions, as above stated, the
defendants then and there excepted, but to none others; the
other instructions above set forth being given to the jury at
the request of the counsel for the defendants.
The court also said to the jury, that all the instructions given
by the court were to be taken and considered together.
The case was argued by Mr. Dickey for the plaintiffs in
error, and by M r. Gillet for the defendant.
Mr. ,Dickey thus noticed the points in the case:
At the close of the plaintiff's evidence in chief, defendants
each claimed that a separate verdict be allowed as to Granger,
against whom there was no proof; in order that the other de.
fendants might use him as a witness. This the court refused,
and defendants excepted.
This was erroneous. There was once some difference of
opinion as to this right, but in Phillips's Evidence, 8th edition,
59. it is said; "It is now well settled, by the unanimous opin-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

177

Castle et al. v. Bullard.

ion of all. the judges, that a defendant, (in torts,) against whom
plaintiff adduces no proof, is entitled to a separate verdict at
once, on the close of the plaintiff's case."
See, also, 2 Starkie's Ev., 11, 798, 799.
Whether there be any evidence, is a question of law.
1 Greenleaf, sec. 49; Phillips's Ev., 513.
And while it is true, this court will not review a question ol
fact, yet no court can review the law of a case without looking
to the facts to which it is to be applied.
All the extraneous evidence, in any event, was irrelevant
until plaintiff had laid a foundation for such proof, by giving
evidence of the contract set up in the declaration between
plaintiff and defendants as partners; and to do this, the part.
nership, embracing Granger, had to be proved.
In an action of tort, where a contract is alleged, as ground
of the supposed duty violated, such contract must be proved
as laid.
Phillips's Ev., 856; 2 Saurders's P1. and Ev., part first,
582.
The court below therefore erred in allowing plaintiff to go
into proof of outside matters, until this vital preliminary prooi
was fobthcoming; and this rule is the more necessary to be
observed in a court where an involuntary nonsuit cannot be
ordered.
(Then comments on the questions of evidence.)
The charge of the court was erroneous. The court said:
1. "If the goods were in the custody of the defendants for
sale on commission, and one or more of .the partners made
false and fraudulent representations as to the party to whom
they were to be sold by the defendants, then the partnership
would be liable, if, in consequence 'of such representations,
the plaintiff consented to the sale to that party, and the sale
wa's actually made by the firm to the party."
This clearly is not a sound proposition, unless you add to it,
that the party to whom the sale was made was actually unworthy of the credit, and by reason thereof the debt was
likely to be lost. The fact is, the whole record shows that
the plaintiff and the court assumed, without proof, that E. S.
VOL. XXIII.

12

SUPREME COURT.
Castle et al. v. Bullard.

Castle at the time of the sale was unfit to be trusted, and thai
E. H. Castle and Filkins knew this to be so, and by the bearing, and finally the charge of the court, the jury were taught
to assume the same thing. It is only on this assumption that
proof of mere purchases of goods by E. S. Castle were treated
as, so many frauds actually perpetrated, and evety favorable
word about E S. Castle, spoken by E. H. Castle and by Filkins, were assumed'on the trial by the plaintiff as so many
wilful lies for some dishonest purpose; and the court,1by its
general course of ruling, gave sanction to the assumption and
led the jury to do so.
The error in the second article of the charge consists in a
false and erroneous idea expressed in the exception. The
court says, that, upon aleirtain hypothesis, defendants are not
liable, "unless the firm, as a firm, were party to such representations."
If the goods were not in defendants' possession for sale, but
were there merely for 6afe keeping, and one of the partners
made false representations touching the solvency of a proposed
purchaser, and thus'plaintiff was induced to sell, and did make
the sale himself, it is not perceived how it is possible that the
firm, as a firm, could be. '5a party to the repr'esentations." 1
don't know what that does mean, but I know it suggests to
the jury that the firm may be held liable in this case for representations touching a sale, made by the plaintiff himself.
when they were in no way parties to the sale by being parties
to representations made by one of their number touching a
matter not within the line of the business of the firm. It is
true, the court, in a later part of the charge, says, that unless
the firm made or negotiated the sale, they are not liable. But
this is no relief, because the court said to the jury, at the last
of the charge, that all the instructions given by the court were
to be considered together. Now, here are two, which are repugnant; which did the jury take?
The counsel for the defendant in error made the following
points I. The plaintiff may prove subsequent acts of fraud and col-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

179

Castle el al. v. BuZlard.

lusion, to obtain goods from other persons, in order to show
the previous intent of the defendants, and which the jury
might infer from circumstances.
Allison v. Matthiew, 3 John. N. Y. R., 285.
2 Hen. Black, 288.
Van Kirk v. Wilds, 11 Barb. Rep., 526.
Such cts, prior or subsequent, about the same time, are
admissible with a view to the quo animo.
Carey v. Hoatling, 1 Hill R., 316.
See English cases cited by Cowen, J. Same principle anproved by the Court of Appeals of New York.
Hall v. Taylor, 18 N. Y., 589.
IT. It was competent to prove the amount of goods on hand
in store of E. S. Castle, the amount of his debts, his general
embarrassment, and all acts to show his pecuniary condition,
with a view to show the defendants' statements to be false
and fraudulent.
III. The defendants being partners, and, as such, having sold
the goods and received the $185 commission and freight, were
jointly liable.
Story on Part., see. 131.
The act was within their regular business, as commission
merchants. "If one of a firm of commission merchants should sell
goods, consigned to the partnership, fraudulently, or in violation of instructions, all the partners would be liable for the
conversion, in an action of trover."
Story on Part., sec. 166.
Collier on Part., sec. 6, pages, 804, 806, 2d ed.
Nicol v. Glemie, 1 Maul. and Selw., 588.
Olnistead v.' Hoatling, 1 Hill N. -Y., 317.
IV. Upon the merits, the defendants were clearly liable,
and the first instruction is correct.
3 John. R., 285; 7 Wend., 9.
Bean v. Renway, 17 Howard N. Y. Rep., 90.
Labrislie v. Smith, 8 Kernan, 822.
The above, are the only points made by th bill of excep
tions which are important.

SUPREME COURT.
Castkle et al. v. Bullard.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of th3 court.

This was a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the northern district of Illinois.
Edward F. Bullard, a citizen of the State of New York,
complained in the court below of Joseph Filkins, J. P. Phillips, Elihu Granger, and Edward H. Castle, in a plea of trespass on the case, alleging, at the same time, that they were
partners, doing business as commission merchants at Chicago,
in the State of Illinois, under the style and firm of Filkins.
Phillips, & Company.
According to the transcript, the declaration was filed on the
seventh day of July, 1856. As amended, it contained five
counts, setting forth, in various forms, two distinct grounds
of conplaint against the defendants, which may be briefly
stated as follows:
In the first place, it is alleged that the defendants, on the
eighth day of November, 1855, fraudulently sold on credit, at
Chicago, to one Edward S. Castle, certain goods belonging to
the plaintiff, and which he had previously intrusted to them,
as commission merchants, for sale; and that the purchaser, at
the time of the sale, was in failing circumstances and irresponsible; charging, in the same connection, that the defendants, at the time of the transaction, well knew that the purchaser was insolvent, and wholly unfit to be trusted; and that
they negotiated the sale with intent to deceive and defraud
the plaintiff, whereby he suffered loss to an amount equal to
the value of the goods so sold and delivered.
He also alleged, in other counts, that the defendants, prior
to the sale of the goods, and at the time when it was made,
represented to him that the said Edward H. Castle was worth
at least eight thousand dollars above all his liabilities; that
he was not embarrassed in his business affairs, or much indebted, and that he was a safe, cautious business man, and
every way worthy of credit. Those representations, the plaintiff alleged, were false, and that the defendants well knew they
were so at the time of the negotiation, and when the goods
we.' i delivered; and that they were so made by the defendants
wit, intent to deceive and defraud him in the premises, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Castle et al. v. Bullard.

had the effect to induce him to consent to the sale, and to deliver the goods, whereby he suffered loss, as is alleged in the
other counts.
To those charges, as more formally set forth in the several
counts of the declaration, the defendants jointly pleaded that
they were not guilty; and on the third day of January, 1857,
the partie6 went to trial on that issue.
Testimony was introduced by the. plaintilf in the opening,
showing that Filkins, :Phillips, & Company, were commission
merchants at the time of this transaction, doing business at
Chicago, in the State of Illinois, and that they received the
goods in question a short time prior to the sale, from one
William*H. Adams, of that city, to whom the goods had previously been sent by the plaintiff to be sold on commission. He
also proved the sale of the goods by one of the firm of Filkins,
Phillips, & Company, to Edward H. Castle, on credit, substantially as alleged in the declaration, and that two of the
partners and the clerk of the firm were present at the time the
sale took place.
Facts and circumstances were also adduced by the plaintiff,
tending strongly to show that the purchaser was largely indebted and in failing circumstances at the time of the negotiation, and hat two or more of the members of the firm must
have known thathe was insolvent and utterly unworthyof credit.
Five per cent. was charged as commissions on the sale of
the gooda, amounting to the sum of one hundred and thirtyfive dollars; and the plaintiff introduced testimony tending to
show that the purchaser, as a part of the transaction, gave his
promissory note to the firm, payable in forty-five days, to secure that amount.
Evidence was also introduced by.the plaintiff, showing that
representations as to the business circumstances and pecuniary
responsibility of the purchaser were made to him at the
of the sale, by one or more of the defendants, substantafly in
the manner as alleged in the declaration. And it was clearly
shown that two or more of the firm well knew that those representations were false, and that the subject of them was
,wholly unfit to be trusted for that amount.

SUPREME COURT.
Castle et al. v. Bullard.

Proof was also introduced by the plaintiff, showing that the
purchaser was a relative of one of th.fr n, and that he had repeatedly been assisted by others in obfainingr credit. And many
of the circumstances were of a character to afford a ground of
presumption that all of the defendants. must have known the
true state of his affairs, and that he was insolvent.
When the plaintiff rested his case, in the opening, the counsel of the defendants moved the court to order a nonsuit as
to the defendant, Graqger, upon the ground that the evidence
offered by the plaintift did not tend to charge him with a participation in the fraud alleged in the' declaratioh. At that
stage of the cause, there was no evidence immediately connecting- him with the transaction, except what might properly
arise from the fact of his being one of the partners. But the
-court overruled the motion for a norisuit, and the defendants
excepted..
They then requested the court, that the jury might be permitted to retire; and consider whether the evidence introduced
.was sufficient to charge thi%defendant; and if not, that the jury
might be directed to. find him not guilty; urging, as a reason
for the motion, that they- desired to examine him as a witness
for theofher defendants; but the court overruled'the application, and the defendants excepted.
After these motions were overruled, evidence was introduced by the defendants, and further evidence was given by
the plaintiff; all of which was sub'mitted to the jury, who returned their verdict in favor of the plaintiff.
1,, Numerous exceptions were taken by the defendants in the
progress of this trial to the rulings of the court, in admitting
and rejecting evidence, and they also excepted to two of the
instructions given by the court to the jury.
1. As the facts have been found by the jury, the questions
to be determined arethose that arise upon the exceptions. Of
these, the first in the order of the argument at the bar is the
one founded upon the refusal of the court to order a nonsuit
as to the defendant, Granger, as requested by the counsel at
the-dose of the plaintiff's testimony.
Several answers may be given to this complaint, each of

DEOEMBER TERM, 1859.

183

Castle et al.v. Bullard.

which is sufficient to show that the exception cannot be sustained. In the first place, Circuit Courts have no power to
grant a peremptory nonsuit against the will of the plaintiff. It
was expressly so held by this court.in Elmorev. Grymes and al.,
1 Pet., 471, and the same rule was also affirmed in De Wolf v..
Rabaud and al., 1 Pet., 497. In the case last named, the defendants at the trial, after the evidence for the plaintiff was
closed, moved the court for a nousuit; which was denied, and
the defendant excepted, and sued out a writ of error; but this
court held that the refusal to grant the motion constituted no
ground for the reversal of the judgment, remarking, .at the
same time, that a nonsuit cannot be ordered in any case without the consent and acquiescence of the plaintiff.
Repeated decisions have been made to the same effect; and
as long ago *as 1832 it was declared, as the opinion of this.
court, in Crane v. the Lessees of Morris, 6 Pet., 609, that this
point was no longer open for controversy.. See also Silsby v.
Foote and al., 14 How., 222.
Another answer to this complaint arises from the fact that
the motion for nonsuit is inappropriate in a case like the present, where there are other defendants to whom it cannot be
applied. In actions of this description, where there is more
than one defendant, the charge, beyond question, as a general
rule, is joint and several, and, consequently, one may'be found
guilty and another not guilty; but at common law there cannot regularly be a nonsuit as to one and a verdict as to others;
and for that reasoh, whenever it appears that there is evidence
in the case to charge one or more of the defendants,. a nonsuit
is never granted at common law, even in jurisdictions where the authority to grant the- motion in a proper case is acknowledged to exist. Revett v. Brown,.2 M. and P., 18; Collier on
Part., (Am. ed., 1848,) sec. 809, p. 698.
But a more decisive answer to this ground of complaint
arises from the fact that there was evidence in the case tending to charge this defendant which rendered it proper that the
question of his guilt or*innocence should be submitted to.the
jury. He was a member- of the firm of Filkins, Phillips, &
Company, as appears by the bill of exceptions. All of the

SUPREME COURT.
Castle et al. v. Bullard.

;oods in question were deposited in their warehouse, and the
jury have found that the goods were sold by the firm. Two
if the partners and the clerk of the firm were present at the
ale, and the commissions earned in transacting the business
went to the benefit of all the partners of which the firm was
composed.
In view of all the circumstances as disclosed in the evidence,
it would be impossible to say, as matter of law, that it was
error in the court to overrule the motion, even if the authority
to grant it were conceded.
2. We come now to exdmine the second exception, which
arises out of the refusal-of the court to permit the jury to retire at the close of the plaintiff's case, and consider whether
the evidence offered in the opening was sufficient to charge
this defendant with a participation in the alleged fraud.
Upon-this subject the general rule is, that if a defendant
who is a material witness for the other defendants has been
improperly joined in. the suit, for the purpose of excluding his
te'stimony, the jury will be dixected to find a separate verdict
in his favori; in which case, the cause being at an end 'With respect to him, he"may be admitted as a witness for the other
defendants. This course, however, can be allowed only where
there is no evidence whatever against him, for the reason that
then only does it appear that he was improperly joined in the
suit, through the artifice and fraud of the plaintiff. If there be
any evidence against him, then he is not entitled to a. separate
verdict, because, under such circumstances, it does not appear
that he was improperly joined, and his guilt or innocence
must wait the general verdict of the jury, who are the sole
judges of the fact. 1 Greenl. Ev., see. 358; Brown v. Howard, 14 John., 122.
Courts of justice are not quite agreed as to what stage of the
t.riail the party thus improperly joined in the suit may insist
upon a verdict in his favor-whether at the close of the evidence-offered by the plaintiff in the opening, or whether he
must wait until the case is closed for the defendants. Mr.
GreeMeaf regard it as the settled practice, that if, at the close
of the plaintiff's case, there is one defendant against whom no

-

DECEMBER TERMf, 1859.

185

Castle et al. v. Bullard.

evidence is given, be i'entitled-instantly to be acquifted; and
it must be admitted that the decision of the court in Childs v.
Chamberlain, 6 0. and P., 218, favors that view of the law,
But Lord Denman held, in Sowell v. Champion, 6 Ad. and
Ellis, 415, that the application to a judge in the course of a
cause, to direct a verdict for one or more defendants in trespass, is addressed to his discretion, and that the discretion was
to be regulated, not merely by the fact that, at the close of the
plaintiff's case, no evidence appears to affect them, but by the
probabilities whether any such will arise before the whole evidence in the cause closes. There is, says the learned judge,
so palpable a failure of justice, where the evidence for the defence discloses a case against a defendant already prematurely
acquitted, that such acquittal ought never to take, place until
there is the strongest reason to believe that such. a consequence cannot follow.
Some courts hold that the application, in all cases, is addressed to the discretion of the court. Brotherton v. Livingston, 3 Watts, 334; 1 Holt., 275. Other courts have held,
that where there is no evidence'to affect a particular defendant
in actions ex delieto against several, a separate verdict isdemandable as a matter of right, and that a refusal to grant the
application is the proper subject of exceptions.' Vai Dusen
v.Van Slyck, 15 Johns., 223; Bates v. Conklin, 10 Wen.,
389.
Whatever. diversities of decision there may be upon this
point, all agree that the application ought not-to be granted,
unless it appear that there is :no evidence to affect the party in
whose favor it is made. Brown v. Howard, 14 John., 122.
Now, it has already appeared that there was evidence in this
case affecting this defendant; and, upon that ground, we hold
that the Circuit Court was fully warranted in refusing to
grant the application.
3. After a careful consideration of the several exceptions to
the rulings of the court in admitting and rejecting evidence,
we are of the opinion -that none of them can be sustaiped.
Considering the great number-of the exceptions, their separate
examination at this time will not be attempted, as it would

SUPREME GO URT.
Castle et al v. Bullard. -

extend this investigation beyond reasonable limits. One class
of them arises out of objections to the admissibility of evidence ofered by the plaintiff, tending to show that the defendants, or some of them, had aided the purchaser in this
case in committing similar acts of fraud in the purchase of
other goods, about the same time, from other persons. According to the evidence,, some of those purchases were prior
and others subsequent to the peridd of the sale of the goods in
this case. All of this class of exceptions may well be considered together' as they involve the same general principles in
the law of e~idetice. - Decided cases have established the doetive that cases of fraud like the present are among the wellrecognised exceptions to the general rule, that other wrongful
acts of the -defendant are not admissible in evidence on the trial
of the-particular charge immediately involved in the issue. Similar fradtialent acts are admissible in cases of this description,
if committed at or about the same time, and when the same
rmotive may reasonably be supposed to exist, with a view to
establish tlhe intent of the defendant in respect to the matters
charged against him in the declaration. Assuming the proposition as stalted to be correct, of which there can be no doubt,
it necessarily follows, that no one of this class of the exceptions is well taken. Some of the decided cases go farther, and
hold that such evidence is admissible, as affording a ground.
of.presumption to prove the main charge; but, whether so or
not; -it
is clearly competent, as tending to show the intent of
the actor in respect to the matters immediately involved in the
issue.on trial. Cary v. Hoatliug, 1 Hill, 316; Irving v. Motly,
7 Bing., 543; Rowley v. Bigelow,. 12 Pick., 307. Another
class of the exceptions arises out of objections made by the
defendants to the admissibility of evidence introduced by the
plaintiff, which, i is insisted, was i'-releva'nt and immaterial.
Some twelve exeeptions are embraced" in this class, and they
are addressed to a large. portion of the testimony introduced
by the plaintiff.
In the course of the trial, t~e plaintiff qffered evidence tend
ing to show thie 'pecuniary circumstances of the purchaser of
these goods..," his acts and conduct in respect to the goods

DEG-EMBER TERM, 1859.
Castle et al. v4 Bullard.

after the purchase, and that he was largely in- debt and insolvent.
. He also introduced evidence tending to show that two or
more of the defendants had represented to other; persons, about
the same time, that the purchaser of the goods in question was
in good standing, and that they had likewise assisted him in
obtaining credit with other dealers in merchandise.
.Toall or nearly all of this evidence, as more fully detailed
in the transcript, the defendants objected, and those objections
constitute the foundation of the several exceptions included
in this class. Much of the evidence was of a circumstantial
character; and it is not going too far to say, that some of the
circumstances adduced, if taken separately, might well have
been excluded. Actions of this description, however, where
fiaud is of the essence of the charge, necessarily give rise to a
wide rang. of investigation, for the reason that the intent of
the defendant is, more or less, involved in the issue. Experience shows that positive proof of fraudulent acts is not generally to be expected, and for that reason, among others, the law
allows a resort to circumstances, as the means of ascertaining
the truth. Great latitude, says Mr. Starkie, is justly allowed
by the law to the reception of indirect or circumstantial evi.
dence, the aid of which is constantly required, not merely for
the purpose of remedying the want of direct evidence, but of
supplying an invaluable protection against imposition. 1
Stark. Ev., p. 58.
Whenever the necessity arises for a resort to circumstantial
evidence, either from the nature of the inquiry or the failure
of direct proof, objections to tastimony on the ground of irrelevancy are not favored, for the reason that the force and effect
of circumstantial facts usually and almost necessarily depend
upon their connection with each other. Circumstances altogether inconclusive, if separately considered, may, by their
number and joint operation, especially when corroborated by
moral coincidences, be sufficient to constitute conclusive probf.
Applying these principles to the several exceptions under QonBideration, and it is clear that no one of them -can be sus..
tained.

SUPREME COURT.
Castle et al. v. Bullard.

Other exceptions to the rulings of court were taken during
the progress of the trial; but it is so obvious that they are
without merit, that we think it unnecessary to give them a
separate examination at the present time, and they are accordingly overruled.
At the argument, it was supposed by the counsel of the
original defendants that the circuit judge had allowed the
plaintiff to introduce parol proof of the contents of a writ of
attachment, referred to by one of the witnesses; but, on examination of the transcript, we find that no such evidence was
admitted. ,
4. Exceptions were also taken to certain portions of the
charge of the court. On this bianch of the case, most reliance
was placed upon certain objections to the first instruction given
to the jury, which is as follows:
"If the goods were in the custody of the defendants, for sale
on commission, and one or nore of the partners made false
and fraudulent representations aq to the party to whom they
were to be sold by the defendants, then the partnership would
be liable, if, in consequence of such representations, the plaintiff consented to the sale to that party, and the sale was actually made by the firm to the party."
Some criticisms Were. also made in the printed argument for
the defendaits upon the second instruction, which, like the
former, was duly excepted to; but, inasmuch as it is not essentially different in principle from the other, and as the questions
presented in each depend upon the same. general considerations, it will not be reproduced.
Both iustrtuctions were framed upon the theory that the defendant were not liable, unless the jury found from the evidence that the goods were actually sold by the firm; which, to
say the least of it, was a theory sufficiently favorable to the defendants. Judge Story says, in his valuable work on partnerships, that torts-may arise in the course of the business of the
,partnership, for which all the members of the firm will be liable,
although the act may not in fact have been assented to by all
the partners. Thus, for example, if one of the partners should
commit a fraud in the course of the partnership business, all

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

189

Castle et al. v. Bullard.

the partners may be liable therefor, although they may not all
have concurred in the act. So, if one of a firm of commission
merchants should sell goods consigned to the firm, fraudulently, or should sell goods so consigned in violation of instructions, all the partners would be liable. Story on Part.,
sec. 166 ; Collier on Part., (Am. ed., 1848,) secs. 445 and 457;
Nicoll v. Glennie, 1 Maule and Selw., 568.
In precise accordance with this view of the law, it was said,
and well said, by the court, in Olmsted v. Hoatling, 1 Hill,
318, that it does not lie with one to claim property- through
the fraudulent act of another, whether partner or agent, without being affected by that act the same as if it were his own;
and we think the same principle must apply in a case like the
present,, where a firm doing business as'commission merchants
have received the fruits of the fraud in the commissions earned
for transacting the business.
Where one assuming to be an agent had committed a fraud in
a sale, it was held, in Taylor v. Green, 8 Car. and P., 816, that
the mere adoption of the sale and the receipt of the money, by
the person for whom the sale was made, rendered him liable
for the fraud.
Suffice it to .say, without any furth'er reference to authorities, that the theory of the instructions was sufficiently favorable to the defendants.
5. Complaint is also made that the instructions excepted to
were not stifficiently comprehensive; that they did not embrace all the elements which constituted the charge, as laid
in the declaration. Strong doubts are entertained whether
this point is properly raised by the bill of exceptions; but
whether so or not, we-are satisfied that the exception cannot.
be sustained.
Instructions given by the court at the trial are entitled to a
reasonable interpretation; and if the proposition as stated is
correct, they are not as a general rule to be regarded as the
subject of error, on account of omissions not pointed out by
the excepting party. Seven requests for instructions to the
jury were presented by the counsel of the defendants, every
one of which was given by the court, without any qualification.

SUPREME COURT.
Beaubien et al. v. Beaubien et al.

If the defendants had supposed that the instructions given
were either indefinite or not sufficiently comprehonsive, they
might well have asked that further and more explicit instructions should be given; and if they had done so, and the prayer
had bgen refused, this objection would be entitled to more,
weight.
But another answer may be given to this objection, which
is entirely conclusive against it. On recurring to the transcript, we find that the court, before the instructions excepted
to were given, explained to the jury the nature and character
of the charge, describing substantially the two forms in which
it was presented in the several counts of the declaration; and
in effect instructed them that it must be proved in the one or
the other of those forms, in order to entitle the plaintiff to a
verdict in his favor. Those explanations immediately preceded the instructions embraced in the exceptions, and, in fact,
may be regarded as a part of the same. Beyond question, the
instructions excepted to must be considered in connection with
those explanations; and when so considered, it is obvious that
this objection cannot be sustained.
In view of the whole case, we think the defendants have no
just cause of complaint, and that there is no error in the record.
The judgment of the Circuit Court therefore is affirmed, with
costs.

JOHN

BAPTISTE BEAUBIEN AND OTHERS, COMPLAINANTS AND

Ay-

PELLANTS, V. ANTOINE BEAUBIEN AND OTHERS, DEFENDANTS.
Where a bill in chancery was filed by persons residing in Canada, claiming
title to property in Detroit which had been in the exclusive possession of the
defendants and those claiming under them since 1793, without, as far as appears, any right being set up by the complainants or by those claiming under
them to the title or the possession of the premises until the filing of the bill,
or any claim to the rents and profits or to an account as tenants in common,
or for partition, or to be admitted to the enjoyment of any right as co-heirs,
the case is one resting upon the enforcement of an implied trust, where courts
of equity follow the courts of law in applying the statute of limitations.
The averments of concealment and fraud on the part of the defendants, Whicb

