DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Bdt v, Corporation of ic7burg.

of the said claims, he was invested with such power and
authority as are conferred on the register of the, land office
and receiver of the public moneys of Louisiana, in the sixth
section of the "Act to create the office of surveyor of the public lands for the State of Louisiana," approved 3d March,
1831. 4 Statutes at Large, 492. Under this act, the surveyor
general exercises a quasi judicial power; and the claimant,
with an authentic certificate of the decree of confirmation, and
a plat or survey of the land, duly certified and approved by
the surveyor general, is entitled to a patent. But, then, the
Commissioner of the Land Office, by virtue of enabling acts
of Congress, exercises a supervision and control over the acts
of the subordinate officers charged with making surveys; knd
it is his duty to see that the location and survey made by that
officer under the decree of the court, and which has not had
the final sanction of the judicial tribunals, is in accordance
with the decree. The refusal of the Commissioner of the
Land Office to issue a patent upon this survey was an appropriate exercise of the functions of his office, and the decree of
the Circuit Court refusing a mandamus is affirmed with costs.

THOMAS BELL, PILAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VICKSBURG
The statutes of Mississippi provide that no plea of non est factun shall be admitted or received, unless the truth thereof shall be proved by oath or affirma.
tion.
A plea of that kind was filed without the affidavit, and demurred to by the plain.

tiff.
Although, upon the general principles of pleading, a demurrer only calls in
question the sufficiency of what appears on the face of the pleading, and does
not reach the preliminary steps necessary to be taken to put it upon file, yet,
as the State courts where such a statute exists have held that the plea of non
est factum is demurrable if there be no affidavit and the course of practice
in the Circuit Court conforms to the State practice, this court also holds.that
such a plea is demurrable.

This case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit

SUPREME COURT.
.BeZ v. Cwporaion of ioksburg.
Court of the United. States for the southern district of Mississippi.

The uature of the suit and the various defences made are
stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Benjamin for the plainti-9 in error, and
submitted by Mr. Badger and Mr. Carlisle upon a printed argument for the defendants in error
Mr. Justide CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff instituted this suit upon a scaled instrument,
made in the name of the city of Vicksburg, payable to bearer.
The defendant pleaded fifteen, pleas; to ten of which the plaintiff demurred, and judgment was rendered for the defendant
on the demurrer. Some -of these pleas involved important
questions touching the Validity of the instrument, which have,
since the decision of the Circuit Court, been the subject of discussi6n in the Supreme Court of Mississippi and in this court.
It is conceded that nine of the -leas were insufficient, and that
the demurrers should have -been sustained to them. The remaining plea is the ordinary non est factum. This was filed
without an affidavit of its truth, and this is required by a
statute of Mississippi to authorize its reception. But the defendant contends that it is the-office of a demurrer to call in
question the sufficiency of a declaration or other pleading upon
what appears up6a its face, without reference to any extrinsic
matter; that the affidavit is not a part of tlie plea; it is only
that which is necessary to authorize the plea to be placed on
file, and it may be waived either expressly or by implication.
The filing of the plea is only irregular, and a demurrer or
replication to it is a waiver. Upon the general principles of
pleading, we assent to the accuracy of this argumerit.
Commercil and R. R. Bank of Vicksburg, 13 Pet., 60.
Nicholl v. Mason, 21 Wend., 339.
But in courts of States in which this. statute exists, a plea of
non est factum, without the affidavit required by it, is demurrable. Such is the practice in Mississippi.
Smith v. Com. Bank of Rodney, 6 S. and M., 83.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

445'

Frederickson d aL v. SWtat ofLouisiana.

Johnston v. Beard, 7 S. and 19., 214.
Bancroft v. Paine, 15 Ala., 834; 4 Ala., 198.
We do not question the power of the Circuit Court to maintain the rules of pleading in the manner of applying the statutes of a State, or it may adopt the usual practice in the State,
if not contrary to an act of Congress.
We learn that the course of practice in the Circuit Court
conforms to the Statepractice. We suppose that it would be
a surprise upon the plaintiff and might work injustice, if we
were to sustain the plea under such circumstances.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded.

FREDERICK

FREDERICKSON,

AGFNT

voR

CAROLINE,

WIDOW

PLAEFFLIN, AND OTHiERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERmOR, V. THE STATE
or LouISIANA.

The following is an article of a treaty concluded between the King of Wurtemberg and the United States in 1844, (8 Stat. at L., 588.)
"The citizens or subjects of each of the contracting parties shail have power to
dispose of their personal property within the States of the other, by testament,
donation, or otherwise; and their heirs, legatees, and donees, being citizens or
subjects of the other contractinj party, shall succeed to their said personal
property, and may take possession thereof, either by themselves, or by others
acting for them, and alispose of the same at their pleasure, paying such duties
only as the inhabitants of the country where said property lies shall be liable
to pay in like cases."
This article does not include the case of a citizen of the United States dying at
home, and disposing of property within the State of which he was a citizen,-and
in which he died.
Consequently, where the State of Louisiana claimed, under a statute, a tax of ten
per cent. on the amount of certain legacies left by one of her citizens to certain
subjects of the King of Wurtemberg, the statute was not in conflict with the
treaty, and the claim must be allowed.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Louisiana, by a writ of error issued under the 25th
section of the judiciary act.
It involved the construction of an article of a treaty between
the United States and the Kingdom of Wurtemberg,concfuded

