DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

249

United States v. White.

By the statute of Arkansas, an action of ejectment may be
maintained where the plaintiff claims possession by virtue of
an entry made with the register and receiver of the proper
land office of the United States. Ar. Digest, 454.
This court -held, in the case of Bagnell et al. v. Broderick,
(13 Peters, 450,) "that Congress had the sole power to declare
the dignity and effect of a patent issuing from the United
States; that a patent carries the fee, and is the best title
known to a court of law." Such is the settled doctrine of
this court.
But there is another question, standing in advance of the
foregoing, to wit: Can an action of ejectment be maintained
in the Federal courts against a defendant in possession, on an
entry made with the register and receiver?
It is also the settled doctrine of this court, that no action of
ejectment will lie on such an equitable title, notwithstanding
a State Legislature may have provided otherwise by statute.
The law is only binding on the State courts, and has no force
in the Circuit Courts of the Union. Fenn v. Holme, (21 How.,
482.)
It is ordered, that the judgment be affirmed.
No. 60 depends on the same titles and facts and instructions
to the jury as are set forth in 59; and the same verdict and
judgment were given in the Circuit Court.
We order it to be affirmed likewise.

THE

UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. ELLEN E. WHITE,
M TISTRATRIX OF CHAiRLES WHITE. DECEASED.

Al).

Where two persons appear to have conflicting claims to land in California, and
the United States do not appear t6 have any interest in the matter, and the
case is brought to this court by proceedings to which the United States are a
party, this court will remand the record to the court in California, with directions to allow the contesting parties to proceed in the manner pointed out by
the act of Congress passed in 1851.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.

250

SUPREME COjJRT.
United States v. White.

The petition was filed by Charles White, claiming under
Manuel Ortega, who gave in evidence the following documents
of title, viz:
1. June 12, 1840. A petition of Ortega to the Governor
Alvarado for a grant of land called Arroyo de San Antonio,
describing its boundaries.
2. June 20, 1840. Reference by the Governor to the military commander of the frontier of Sonoma, to make report.
3. Report of M. G. Vallejo, that the land may be granted.
4. The marginal decree signed by Alvarado, as follows:
MONTEREY, August 10,

1840.

In conformity with the information given by the military
commander of the frontier of Sonoma, and in virtue of the
faculties with which I am invested, I grant to Don Antonio
Ortega the laiid petitioned for, with the understanding that,
to expedite the respective title and to regulate the necessary
documents by which he shall mark out the lines and perform
those necessary acts, he shall make a map, as required by law,
which he will present opportunely.
This decree shall be returned to him, that it may serve him
as a security during the other operations indicated.
(Signed)
ALVARA.DO.
This title never having been completed by a final grant, the
expediente is not to be found among the archives, having been
returned to the petitioner to "serve him as a security" in the
mean while. But its authenticity is proved by the testimony
of the officers, Vallejo and Alvarado, who themselves signed
the documents. Their genuineness is therefore not disputed,
at least there is no testimony going to impeach the characters
of these witnesses.
In order to establish an equity, the claimants examined, first,
Ortega himself, who testified that, after the decree made by
Alvarado in his favor and in the same year, he applied to Alvarado for a full and formal title; but it was during a recess
of the Departmental Assembly, and he could not obtain it.
That he presented a diseno or map to the Governor, and went
to Oregon, leaving his papers in the private custody of Gov-

DEOEMBER TERM, 1851.

251

United Stqtes v. White.

ernor Alvarado. A copy of thie map is attached. He says he
diTd not occupy the land himself in person; but that Juan
Miranda, his father-in-law, occupied it for him, by placing his
son there. That Miranda, the father, died in 1845, and his
son continued to occupy the land. That he (Ortega) went to
Oregon in 1843, and did not return till after the occupancy of
California by the Americans. That after his return he went
to Alvarado and.got his papers for the purpose of establishing
his claim, which he conveyed to a priest named Brouillet. As
to the custody and delivery of the papers, he is corroborated
by Alvarado.
Richardson, another witness, also testified that he knzw the
land; that it was occupied by virtue of a contract between
Ortega and Miranda, and the occupation continued till 1850
by the son of Miranda; that both Ortega and Miranda told
him that Miranda occupied the rancho for Ortega; that a
house was built; and the land occupied by cattle and horses,
and by cultivation.
Vallejo testified as follows:
"It was, I thiuk, about 1838 or 1839 that Ortega applied to
me for permission to- settle there; and immediately after-I
gave that permission, he moved on to the land, taking with
him his father-in-law, Juan Miranda, and his family; he built
a house there and a corral, and stocked the place Ivith horses
and cattle; I furnished him with stock to stock the place, and
he went on to cultivate a portion of the land; he after that
obtained a grant from Governor Alvarado about 1840; Orteg%
when he placed his father-in-law on the land, was an dfficer in
the army, and was a portion of the time with his command,
and went occasionally to -his ranch."
One Jose- de la Rosa also testifies that he made the map for
Ortega in 1839 or 1840-wrote his petition for him, and saw
the grant of Alvarado in his possession on the ranch of San
Antonio. That Ortega's wife and family resided on the ranch
with her father's family; that Ortega himself left the country,
and did not return till 1847; that in 1844 the witness wrQte a
petitioii for Miranda for this same land, and presented it to
the Governor Micheltorena for him; that a grant to him was

252

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. White.

written by one Clark, in the Secretary's office, wnieh was
never signed, on account of civil disturbances.
A witness named Martin was called by the attorney for the
United States, who swore that he occupied this land in 1832
by license from General Vittoria, and had "a loan of the
land;" that he continued such possession till 1837; built a
house and cultivated the land; that he delivered possession
of the land to Miranda, and removed his house to another
tract; that Miranda took possession by putting his son on the
land, with cattle, &c.; that Ortega was married, in 1838, to
Miranda's daughter; that he had delivered the possession to
Miranda before that timay, that Miranda's son continued the
possession till he was sold out by the sheriff.
Mesa, who lived in the family of Miranda at the time this
land was occupied, swears that it was claimed and occupied
by Miranda, who had been working in the mission for some
years; that the cattle were given to him in pay for his labor,
and branded with Miranda's brand; that Miranda occupied it,
with the consent of Vallejo, for the purpose of applying to the,
Government for a title; that Ortega was poor, and had no
property but a horse. This witness is also confirmed by the
testimony of Francesca Miranda, the wife of Ortega, and
whom he had forsaken when he went to Oregon.
The expediente of Miranda is found among the archives.
It commences with a.petition in February, 1844, by Miranda,
representing that for more than four years he had been in
possession of a place in the Arroyo San Antonio, which had
been granted to him by Vallejo, but that the papers.were lost.
The informe is in due form; the grant drawn out, but not
signed.
The board of commissioners adjudged that the claim of the
petitioner was valid, and decreed that it should be confirmed.
The District Court affirmed this decree, and the United
States appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Black (Attorney General) and Mr.
Crittenden for the United States, and by -Mr. Cwashing and Mr.
Philips for the appellee.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

2US

United ,tatew v. Whie.

The arguments in the case involved the title of Miranda as
contradictory to the title of Ortega, and, under the opinion
of the court, it is deemed proper to omit them.
Mr. Justice GIRER delivered the opinion of the court.
It is clear, from the evidence in this case, that, as against
the United States, either Ortega or Miranda has a just claim
to a confirmation of his title to the tract in dispute. Iut
whether Ortega was landlord, and Miranda his tenant, or
which of the claimants has attempted to overreach the other,
gre questions in which the Government has no interest. The
United States officers are not bound to settle this dispute
between these parties in these proceedings. NTor should
either party be permitted to carry on their litigation, by
assuming to act for the Government, and thus take the advantage of their opponents, by fighting under its shield and at its
expense. The District Attorney of California had neither
interest nor authority to represent Miranda in order to defeat
Ortega; nor can this court be thus compelled, on an appeal
by the Attorney General, to become the arbiters of disputes
in which the Government has no concern.
The patent issued in pursuance of the act of Congress which
authorizes these proceedings, is conclusive only between the
United States and the claimants. It does not affect the interest of third parties.
The act of Congress (3d March; 1851, section 13) points out
the mode in which contesting claimants may litigate their
respective rights to a patent from the Government.
Instead of an appeal to this court to settle the rights of
Miranda in a proceeding in which he is no party, the claimants under him, if there be any, should proceed in the mode
pointed out by the act, which provides: "That if the title of
the claimant to such lands shall be contested by any, other
person, it shall and may be lawful for such person to present
a petition to the district judge of the Uiited States for the
district in which the lands are situated, plainly and distincfly
setting forth his title thereto, and praying the said judge to
hear and determiine the same; a copy of which petition shall

SUPREME COURT.
United Statz&v. White.

be served upon the adverse party, thirty days before the time
appointed for hearing the same. And it shall and may be
lawful for the district judge, upon the hearing of such petition, to grant an injunction to restrain the party at whose
instance the claim to the said lands has been confirmed, from
suing out a patent for the same until the title thereto shall
have been finally decided; a copy of which order shall be
transmitted to the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
and thereupon no patent shall issue until such decision has
begen made," &c.
It appears from the record that Valentine, who purchased
the title of Miranda at sheriff's sale, had filed his claim before
the board of commissioners for confirmation, and afterwards
withdrew his petition. Now, if Miranda or his assignee makes
no claim; if he admits the tenancy, and does not allege that
Ortega has fraudulently overreached him, the Government
surely has no right to claim that the land shall be considered
as part of the public domain. It cannot set up Miranda to
defeat Ortega, or the contrary, admitting, as it must, that
either of them can show a claim worthy of confirmation in the
absence of the other. iNor can third persons be admitted to
interfere, to. use the claim of ohie to defeat the other.
If the heirs or assigns of Miranda object to the issuing of
the patent to Ortega or his assigns, their remedy is clearly
pointed out. They can have their rights tried where the witnesses are known, where they may be examined ore tenus
before the couirt, or before a jury, if the court chooses so to
order. They have a far better tiibunal to settle this question
than if they were permitted to appeal to this curt, to guess
-out-the truth from conflicting depositions.
Now, if this court should enter a judgment affirming that
of the District Court, it would appear as if we had decided the
title of Ortega to be superior to- that of Miranda, and that
Miranda was the tenant of'Ortega. This we are unwilling to
do; for, if there be bona fide claimants of the Miranda title,
such a judgment might seem to conclude them. Nor can we
reverse the j adgment, fb this.wNvould imply that we considered
Miranda had the better title, and that he or his assignees

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

255

United States v. Bennitz.

might be justified in attempting to get the judgment of this
court in their favor, in this oblique and irregular manner,
under the protection of the Attorney General.
We have concluded, therefore, to remand the record to the
District Court, with directions to suspend further proceedings
till the heirs or assigns of Juan Miranda, if they see fit so to
do, may have an opportunity to contest the claim under Ortega,
according to the provisions of the thirteenth section of the
act of 3d March, 1851, entitled "An act to ascertain and settle
the private land claims in the State of California," and have
such further proceedings as to justice and right may appertain.
And now, to wit, May 1, 1860, the court having reconsid-,
ered the opinion and order before made in this case, do now
order and adjudge that the decree of the District Court in
favor of the appellees be reversed and set aside, and the record
remitted for further proceedings in the case.
We do this that the District Court may not be trammelled
in their future consideration of the case on all its merits, but
without intimating an opinion as to the validity of the grant
to Antonio Ortega. It is due to the Attorney General to say
that, on the argument of this case, he challenged this grant
al fraudulent; and it is because we do not think the whole
evidence on that point was fully developed on the former trial
below, that this order is made.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLA-TS, V. WILLiAm BENm z.
The general title of Sutter to land in California again decided to convey no valid

title-

Tins was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
It was a claim for five leagues of land on the Sacramento
river, which was presented to the board of commissioners
with the following evidence and result:

