DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Callan et al. v. Statham et at.

rena as Governor, Sutter gave copies of that title to the petitioners. In the testimony of Sutter, in the case of Pratt, he
says "that he applied for the paper a few weeks before the couriers arrived with it; that duplicates were sent to him, and
that it was designed as a bounty to the soldiers who had served
under him, for their services in the war."
We have already expressed our opinion upon the merits of
this title in several cases, during this and the last term; and
it remains only to say that the decree of the District Court
must be reversed, and the causes remanded, with directions
to the District Court to dismiss the petition in each.

Jomx

F. CALA

AND MICHAEL P. CALLAN, APPELLANTS, V.
CHARLES W. STATHAM AND OTHERS.

Where a bill in chancery was filed to set aside a deed as being fraudulent
against creditors, and it is charged in the bill that the consideration mentioned in the deed was not paid, it is not satisfactory that the defendant relies
upon the answer that it was paid, considering the answer, which is responsive
to the bill, as evidence of the payment, when the execution of the deed is surrounded by circumstapccs of suspicion.
In the present case, the payment of the purchase money was alleged to be a
secret transaction between the vendor and vendee, and there were other circumstances attending the deed which sdrrounded it with suspicion. The evidence of payment must have been in the possession of the defendants, and
they ought to have produced it.
The title of the defendant, although encumbered, could have been made clear;
the price alleged to have been paid was inadequate; the vendor remained in
possession and collected all the rents without accounting to the vendee ; the
circumstance that the vendor was heavily in debt, and suits pending and maturing to judgment when he made the deed-all these things induce this court
not to disturb the decree of the court below, which directed the property to be
sold for the satisfaction of creditors.

Tmis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia.
The -acts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by Mr. Walter S. Cox and Ar. Daris for the

SUPREME C(OURT.
Oallan et al. v. Statham d aI.

appellants, and by Mr. Chilton and Mr. Davidge for the appellees.
The arguments and points of law were very dependent upon
the facts of the case, and are therefore omitted.
Mr. Justice NWELSO delivered the 6pinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
District of Columbia.
The suit below was a creditor's bill, filed by Statham and
Dthers, the appellees, to set aside a deed made by J. F. Callan
and wife to M. P. Callan, on the 16th October, 1854, conveying lot No. 8, in square No. 456, with the improvements, in
the city of Washington, and to, subject it to the payment of
the plaintiffs' judgments.
Judgments to an amount exceeding $3,000 were recorded
against J. F. Callan, 5th May, 1855. The deed was iecorded
14th April, 1855.
A second bill was filed against the same parties and others,
on the 9th August, 1856,'by Austin Sherman, a judgment
creditor of J. F. Callan, for the purpose of settiiig aside the
same deed, and subjecting the property to the payment of his
judgments recovered 2d April, 1855, and exceeding in amount
$9,000.
The two suits were consolidated, as the same proofs were
equally applicable in respect to the charge of fraud in the execution of the conveyance sought to be set aside. The court
below decreed that the deed wa8 fraudulent as against creditors, and directed the property to be sold, and the proceeds
brought' into court for distribution. The case is here on an
appeal from that decree.
At the date of the deed of October, 1854, Callan was heavily
in debt-several suits impending over him and maturing to
judgments, to which the property in question would have been
subject. The conveyance was made to a brother, for the considerdtion, as stated in the deed, of $4,900. The premises
conveyed, according to the estimate of witnesses who were
'vell acquainted with them, were worth at the time exceeding

DECEMIBER TERM, 1859.

.47S

Callan et al. v. Stath7am et al

$15,000, assuming the title to be good, which will be noticed
hereafter. The vendor continued to possess and occupy the
property after the conveyance the same as before, leasing the
buildings and collecting the rents in his own name, and not
accounting to the vendee for the same. Indeed, the vendee
seems to have taken no part in the management of the property; nor does it appear that he has exercised any act of ownership over it since the purchase, and down to the taking of the
proofs in these cases.
Inthe answer of Callan, the vendor, to the bill of Statham
and others, to the charge that the consideration mentioned in
the deed was not paid, he simply states that it had been fully
paid by his brother, the vendee. The vendee, for his answer,
adopts the answer of his co-defendant.
In their answer to the bill of Sherman, they concur in stating
that $4,000 of the consideration were paid by the surrender of
a note the vendee held against the other party, and $900 in
cash, and that the payment was not made in presence of any
third person.
NTo proof was given by the defendants in respect to the payment of the consideration, with a view of sustaining the allegation in the answers. They rely entirely upon the rule of
pleading, that the answers are responsible to the bill, and to
be taken as true till overthrown by proof on the other side.
As they aver the payment was a transaction between themselves, and the principal part a, note held by the vendee, which
he surrendered, the evidence in respect to which is therefore
exclusively within their own knowledge, it would have been
more satisfactory if they had given some proof in support of
the answers, especially when there were other accompanying
circumstances, tending to excite distrust and suspicion as to
the bona fides of thejdeed.
Ad it respects the defect in the title relied on to reduce the
value of the property, it appears that J. F. Callan, in November, 1840, took a lease of this property from one W. Robinson, trustee of Alice Jennings, Alice joining in the lease for
the term of her natural life, for the annual rent of $200; and
in which lease it is agreed that, upon the death of the said

SUPREME COURT.
Callan et al. v. Statham et al.

Alice, the lessee shall have the right to purchase the estate for
the price of $3,000; upon the payment of which, Robinson
binds himself and his heirs to convey the title. Alice died in
May, 1851, and Robinson some years earlier.
It is insisted, on the part of the defendants, that the heirs
of Robinson,,and also of Alice, refuse to carry into execution
this contract, and have refused to accept the $3,000. There
is some obscurity upon the evidence, as it respects the precise
state of this question at the time of the deed from Callan to
his brother, in October, 1854. It is claimed on the part of the
judgment creditors that this money had been paid, and that
the deed from the heirs was kept back, in fraud of their rights.
Perhaps the better opinion is, upon the facts, that the money
has not been paid, and that the property is subject to this encumbrance. It is clear, however, that there is no serious embarrassment in the way of clearing the title on payment of the
money.
It appears, by some arrangement, not particularly explained,
with the heirs, after the death of Alice, Callan agreed to pay
the interest on the $3,000, and which has been paid down to
the month of July, 1854; and the case shows that, upon the
payment of the purchase money, with the interest, from the
period last mentioned, the title can be obtained. It would
have been remarkable if this right of purchase had not been
preserved, as it appears Callan has put on the property improvements to the amount of from $7,000 to $10,000.
The question as to the title is only impot:tant as entering
into the estimate of the value of the proper ty, and as tending
to rebut the undervaluation of the price, as charged in the bill.
It ii clear, however, admitting the property to be subject to
the payment of $3,000, that the price was considerably below
its true value.
But, independently of this consideration, there are other
facts in the case that may well justify the decree below-the
most important, perhaps, the unsatisfactory evidence on the
part of the Callans in respect to the payment of the consideration stated in the deed. This proof was vital, in order to uphold a deed in other respects surrounded with suspicion. "The

481

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Clifton v. Sheldon.

evidence was in their possession; and their admission that the
transaction was secret made the proof still more'indispensable
on their part. The want of it, under the circumstances, is
nearly if not quite fatal to the validity of the deed as against
creditors.
The continuance of the vendor in the possession audT occupation and full enjoyment of the premises, the same after the
deed as before, and absence of interest in the subject manifested by the vendee, are circumstances not satisfactorily explained; also, the heavy indebtedness of J. F. Callan, and
suits pending and maturing to judgment-all well known to
the vendee.,
We are satisfied the decree of the court below is right, and
Rhould be affirmed.

JOHN CLIFTON, CLAIMANT OF THE BRIG WATER WITCH, HER
TACKLE, &a., APPELLANT, V. WILLIAM

H.

SHELDON.

Where a decree was made by the Circuit Court, sitting in admiralty, that two
persons should pay freight, one in the sum of $583.84, and the other in the
sum of $1,754.22, and the latter only appealed' to this court, the appeal must
be dismissed, as the amount in controversy is less than $2,000.
The rights of the two were distinct and independent; but if the freight be con
sidered a joint matter, both should have joined in the appeal.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the dourt.
The motion to dismiss the appeal was argued by Mr. Donohue in support of it, and by 31r. Owen against it.

Mr. Donohue's points were the following:
I. The record shows that Mr. Sheldon is ordered and decreed to pay between $1,800 and $1,900, besides costs, and
that Mr. Brower does not complain of the decree below.
IT. As'a matter of law, no appeal lies, unless the matter in
dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum of $2,000.
vor,. xXIII.
31

