DECE-MBER TERI, 1859.
Cage's Executors v. C7ssidy et aZ.

ALBERT CAGE AND HENRY HAYS- EXECUTORS Or ROBERT H
CAGE, DECEASED, V. ALEXANDER A. CASSIDY, WILLIAM E.
DOUGLASS, AND WILLIAM H. BALL, CITIZENS OF THE STATE OF
TENNESSEE, AND RICHARD GRIFFITH, MARSHAL OF THE SOUTH-

ERN

DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.

Where the surety upon an administration bond was sued, and.judgment recovered against him in Mississippi, and a court in Tennessee (where the principals upon the bond re'sided) decided that but a small amount was due by the
administrators upon their account, and that the judgment against the surety
hd been obtained in defiance of an injunction issued by the Tennessee court,
and also by fraudulent representations made to the surety,, and it was admitted that the decree in Tennessee was sapported by the proofs, the surety was
entitled to relief by the court in Mississippi, and- the creditor must be perpetually enjoined from proceeding uppon his judgment.

THIS was an appeal from thd Circuit Court of the UnitedStates for the southern district of Mississippi.

It was a bill filed by Robert H. Cage, in his lifetime, to
stay execution on a forthcoming bond under the circumstances
stated in the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court -granted a temporary injunction in the
outset of the case, but upon the final decree adjudgea-that the
injunction* be dissolved, aid that Cassidy be permitted to sue
out executions at law upon the judgments of the court, then
restrained by injundtion.
From this decree the complainant appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr.,Brent and Mr. Phelps for the appel..
lant, and Mr. Bradley and Mr. X!cCalla for the appellee.
The principal point in the case being the effect of the Tennssee judgment, the argument upon that point only will be
noted in this report.
The counsel for the appellant noticed this.point as follows.
It further appears, that. while the case was pending in the
Tennessee State court, having competent jurisdiction tnereof,

for the purpose of abating and avoiding the note, and in defiance of the injunction of that court, Cassidy instituted a suit

SUPREME COURT.
Cage's Executors v. Cassidy et al.

in the Circuit Court of the United States for the State of Mississippi against Cage, and recovered judgment on this very
note, which was in litigation between the parties in Tennessee,
notwithstanding the effort of Cage to defend himself in the
premises, when sued at law.
The pending of that suit in Tennessee constituted no legal
defence to the suit brought in the United States court on this
note, but it is available only in bquity, especially now, (as
shown by Cage's supplemental bill and the concession of the
truth thereof,) that the Tennessee court has finally decreed the
abatement of the amount of the note, and the fraud of Cassidy
in obtaining the antecedent judgments on which that note
was predicated, and which in fact constituted its only consideration.
It is rather inconsistent for the court to have overruled a
demurrer to this supplemental bill, and afterwards to have
dismissed the same bill when all its allegations were admitted
except the one of fraud.
It certainly is inconsistent, unless fraud was the material
inquiry, and even in that event the court hadthe conclusive
evidence of this very fraud in the explicit ruling of the Tennessee court in its final decree, as shown in the admission of
facts.
The Tennessee court therefore had jurisdiction; and if so,
there can be no judicial inspection behind the decree, except
by appellate power.
Grignon v. Astor, 2 How., 341.
10 Peters, 449; 2 H. and G., 42.
6 H. and J., 182; 4 I. and J., 394.
The true test of jurisdiction is, whether a demurrer would
lie to Cage's bill in Tennessee.
Tomlinson v. McT3ay, 5 Gill, 256.
Even if this were a case of concurrent jurisdiction, the
court first having cognizance has exclusive jurisdiction.
1. Md. Ch. Rep., 351, 295.
2 Md. Ch. Rep., 42; 7 Gill, 446.
Under the Constitution, that decree is just as conclusive i
Mississippi as in Tennessee.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Cag 's Exut6rsv. Cassidy et al.

7 Cranch, 481 i 3 Wheat., 234.
6 Wheat., 129; 13 Peters, 312.
5 G. and J., 500; 3 Gill, 51.
A recovery on same cause of afction in a sister State, pendente lite, may be pleaded against further maintenance of suit,
though this suit brought first.
7 Gill, 426.
Defendant at law, after judgment, may enjoin judgment on
grounds not known or not available at trial in court of law.
Gott v. Caw., 6 G. and J., 809.
12 G. and J., 865.
Surely the abatement or cancellation of that note and its injunction from suit on grounds of mistake, or fraud, or failure
of consideration, was a mere personal demand against Cassidy,
and to be enforced anywhere he was found, on familiar principles of equity.
15 Peters, 233; 1 Wheat., 440.
1 Peters, 1; 4 Orauch, 306.
Here it is conceded that the Tennessee decree establishing
fraud in Cassidy, throughout, was supported by evidence.
3 Peters, 210. :
And frand vacates the judgment as against the party.
Simms v. Slocum, 3 ranch, 300.
Even after judgment on a note, the defendant may enjoin on
ground of fraud in obtaining the' note.
4 Peters, 210; 11 Peters, 63.
Jurisdiction once attaching, the court, to do complete-justice,
decides even a legal claim.
5 Peters, 264; 12 Peters, 178.
At law, the failure of consideration in a note must be total,
and here it was partial, as conceded.
2 Wheat., 13.
Even if the note of Cage had been given to Cassidy, in his
character of administrator, it was his mere persbnal ch(se in
action, and his title of administratorwould have been surplusage.
Graham v. Fahnestock, 5 Gill, 215.
Tle counsel for the appellee mr4e the following points:

SUPREME COURT.
Cage's Executors v. Cassidy et al.

The following points and authorities will present to this
court the grounds on which the defendants rely to show that
the decree of the Circuit Court, refusing the jurisdiction and
dismissing the bill ought to be affirmed.
It is ,tonceded that Cage is a citizen of Mississippi, and Cassidy of Kentucky.
I. The decree of the Probate Court, ascertaining the amount
due by the administration, remains unreversed.
That court had exclusive and conclusiOV jurisdiction over
the subject matter of controversy.
Gildart v. Starke, 1 How. Miss., 450.
Griffith v. Vertuer, 5 How. Miss., 786.
Provided the proper parties were before them, or due notice
was given.
Hall, &c., v. Cassiday, 25 Miss., 48.
H. The court in Tennessee had no jurisdiction to settle the
accounts of addministrators deriving their authority from the
State of Mississippi.
Vaughn t,. Northup, 15 Pet., 1.
Bell v. Suddeth, 2 S. M., 532.
And the appearance of Cassidy could not give them jurisdiction, whether he had admitted or denied it.
There was no fraud charged, nor any contract or agreement
set up in the Tennessee bill, which gave that court jurisdiction
over Cassidy, so as to prevent his proceeding in the Federal
court in Mississippi to coerce the payment of this note.
The Circuit Court in Mississippi had exclusive jurisdictioni

over that question, and was opeirto the complainant, Cage.
McKim r. Voorhees, 7 Cranch, 297.
III. The reversal of thedecree of distribution in the Probate Court neither satisfies the equity between these parties,
nor destroys the consideration which was the foundation of
that note, because the amount ascertained by the only competent authority to be due, still stands a judgment, and, in the
absence of creditorb, belongs to the distributees of the estate;
and
The n~te was given by Cage, with full knowledge or the
circumstances, and when he might have resorted to his pres.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

11.3

Cage's Executors v. Cassidy et a7.

ent application for relief, when he might have convened the
parties in the Probate Court of Madison county, and have had
the decree on the account opened, if there was jurisdiction to
do so.
But there was no such jurisdiction, either in that court or
in a court of equity.
Hendricks v. Huddleston, 5 S. and M., 422, 126.
Turnbull v. Endicott, 3 S. and M., 302.
Griffith v. Vertner, 5 How., 736.
The settlement of that account is final and conclusive.
IV. If Cassidy procured the decree for account by fraud,
or especially if the consideration on which the note was
given was fraudulent, and the note was given on false anl
fraudulent representations of Cassidy, these defences would
have been good defences in the suit at law on the note. They
were not set up. Cage therefore has, by his own laches, lost
his equity, if he had any.
Nor does the pendefcy of the suit in equity in Tennessee
excuse his neglect, for that was no bar to the recovery of Cassidy on the note in his suit in the Circuit Court.
There is no equity in the bill, and no error in the dismissal
of it.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
R. H. Cage, the testator of the appellants, filed his bill in
the Circuit Court, to be relieved from a judgment rendered
there in favor of the .appellee, (A. A. Cassidy,) in N~ovember,
1852.
The pleadings and proofs contained'in the record disclose
that the testator,. in 1841, became surety to the Probate Court
of Madison county, Mississippi, for William Douglass and William Hall, on their bond, as administrators of the estate of
Henry L. Douglass, deceased. In 1848, their letters of administration were revoked; and Cassidy, the husband of Mary
Douglass, the widow of ]Venry L. Douglass, and the guardian
of Henrietta Douglass, their only child, was appointed adininistrator dC bonis von.

In, 1849, the Probate Court cited the administrators to ac%a1l

V\III

I

SUPREME COURT.
Cage's Executors v. Cassidy et al.

count, and upon their non-appearance rendered a decree
against them for $6,822.87, and subsequently ordered, that
payment should be made to Cassidy and wife and Henrietta
Douglass-one moiety to each, being their legal share; and
in default of payment authorized a suit on the administration
bond. In 1850, suits were instituted on the bond against
Cage, the surety, in the Circuit Court, by Cassidy and Henrietta Douglass; but no suit was commenced against the principals, who resided in Tennessee. Judgments were rendered
in 1851 against Cage, for the amount of the decree; and these
were settled by his giving a note to Cassidy for their amount,
payable one year after date, and by paying the costs.
During the year 1851, Gage visited Tennessee, with a view
to have a settlement between Douglass and Hall, his principals, and Cassidy, and to obtain an indemnity from those who
had induced him to sign their bond. His negotiations were
unproductive; and he filed a bill in the Court of Chancery, in
Sumner county, Tennessee, to which Cassidy and wife, Henrietta Douglass, and Douglass and Hall, and others, were made
parties.
In this bill he stated his relation as surety, and his legal
claim to be exonerated from his obligation, and from his impending danger of loss. He insisted that his creditors, the
distributees, and his principals, the administrators, should adjust their accounts, and that the balance should be settled.
He charged that he had not made defence against the judgments in Mississippi, because the defendant, Cassidy, had assured him that" he was not to be vexed or injured, and the
suit was simply to serve as an instrument to bring his absent
principles to a fair settlement. He charges that the account
stated in the Probate Court was erroneous, within the knowl.
edge of Cassidy, who had procured it, and that the balance
was subject to credits that he knew to be just. He obtained
aL injunclion against Cassidy, requiring him not to transfer
his note or to commence any suit upon it pending the injunction.
The several defendants answered the bill; and in 1854 the
cause came on for a hearing upon pleadings, proofs, orders,
and a report upon the administration accounts.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Cage's Executors v. Cassidy et a7.

Before this 'time the administrators had obtained a writ of
error upon the judgment rendered in the Probate Court; and
in January, 1853, this judgment was annulled by the Court
of Errors and Appeals of Mississippi.
The defendant, Cassidy, in 1852, notwithstanding the injunction in Tennessee, commenced a suit upon the note of
the silrety, (Cage,) in the Circuit Court, and in Nfovember,
1852, recovered ajudgment for the full amount, and sued out
execution for its collection. Thereupon Cage filed the bill for
injunction and relief with which the proceedings in the cause
before this court were commenced.
In this bill he charges that the account as stated in the Probate Court is unjust. That Cassidy was aware of the injustice
of the charges when they were made. That he had quieted
the mind of the plaintiff, by assurances that he meditated no
harm to him; but merely expected to bring the administrators
to a fair settlement by that course, and only expected to hold
the claim against him for that purpose. He specifies the errors
in the account, and the efforts he had made to bring the parties to a settlement, and the pendency of his suit in Tennessee. Cassidy answered the bill, taking issue upon some of the
material averments.
Thus the cause stood when the Court of Chancery in Sumner county, Tennessee, rendered its final decree in 1854. The
court declared that the settlement in the Probate Court, the
judgments in the Circuit Court on the bond, and the exec4tion of the promissory note by Cage in, liquidation, were superinduced by the promises and assurances of Cassidy to Cage,
that he was rot to be held personally, but they were to jbe
used to bring the principals to a.fair accounting. That Cassidy knew that the statement of the account in the Probate*
Court was erroneous, and unjust to the administrators, and
that the recovery of the judginent on the note of Cage was a
breach of the injunction, and a fraud upon him.
The court finds, that instead'of a debt of $6,822.87, as re-ported against the administrators in 1849, there was only due
the sum of $850.37. It charges against this sum the costs
paid by Cage in the litigation to which he has been suljected,

SUPREME COURT.
Cagu's Execdors v. Cassidy et a.

and required the remainder to be paid into court; and thereupon entered a. decree against Cassidy, enjoining him from
proceeding further upon the judgment in the Circuit" Court.
on the note.
This decree wa6 presented to the Circuit Court in Mississippi, in suitable pleadings, and was considered by that court
under a stipulation of the solicitors of the respective parties to
this effect; "It is admitted that proof before the Chancery
Court of Tennessee was sufficient to establish the state of
accounts of Hall and Douglass, as administrators of H. L.
Douglass, in Mississippi and Tennessee, as decreed by the
chancellor in the Tennessee case, filed in this cause as an
exhibit. This agreement is made, in order to dispense with
obtaining a copy of the proof before the Chancery Court of
Tennessee, or retaking the depositions of the witnesses. In
other words, all that is intended to be admitted hereby, and
that is admitted, that the decree of said Chancery Court was
supported by the proof."
Upon the hearing in the Circuit Court, that court determined that the injunction which had been granted in the preliminary stake of this cause was improvidently allowed, and
that the bill must be dismissed. From this decree this appeal
is taken.
The natural limit of the obligation of a surety is to be found
in the obligation of the principal; and when that is extin.guished, the surety is in general liberated. In some codes,
the:obligation of a surety cannot extend beyond or exist under
conditions more onerous than that of his principal. The obligation of the administrators, Douglass and Hall, has been
ascertained by the decree of the Court of Chancery in Tennessee, upoi. proof, conceded to be sufficient,. and has been
fully discharged byits order. Not~vithstan-ding this, the appellee (Cassidy) seeks to enforce a judgment for nearly ten
times the amount of the debt found to b3 due in that decree,
and now discharged. It is apparent that the effort is unconscionable, and can only be allowed under the influence of
some inflexible and imperious rule of the court, that deprives
the appellants of any title to its interposition. But the Court

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

117

Pennock et al. v. Coe.

of Chancery of Tennessee, upon sufficient proof, has declared
that the surety had been "lulled into security" by the delusive
promises of his creditor, and that he has been the victim of
artifice an, circumvention; that the judgment against him
was obtained in contempt of the injunction of the court, and
that the assertion of any right under it would be fraudulent.
This decree remains in full force and effect.
These circumstances furnish additional motives for the intervention of the equitable powers of the court for the relief
of the appellants.
It is the opinion of thid court, that the decree of the Circuit
Court is erroneous, and must be reversed. The cause is remanded, with directions to the Circuit Court to enter a decree
perpetuating the injunction.

JOSEPH PENNOCK AND NATHAN F. HART, APPELLANTS, v. GEORGE
S. CO.E, TRUSTEE OF THE CLEVELAND, ZiNESVILLE, AND CIIioINNADI RAILROAD COMPANY.
.railroad company authorized to borrow money and issue their bonds, to ena
ble themselves to finish and stock the road, may mortgage as security-nol
only the then-acquired property, but such as may be acquired in future.
A.lthough the maxim is true, that a person cannot grant what he has not got, yet,
in this case, a grant can take effect upon the property when it is brought into
existence, and belongs to the grantor in fulfilment of an express e greement,
founded on a good and valid consideration, wlen no rule of law is infringed
or rights of a third party prejudiced. The -mortgage"attached to the Tuturre
acquisitions as described in it, from the time they g'ame into existence, and
were placed on the road.
Hence, where second mortgagees and holders of bonds of a second issue brought
suit upon those bonds, recovred udgment, issued execution, and levied it
upon a part of the rolling stock, which was not in existence when the first
mortgage was given, the judgment creditors must be postponed to the claims
of the first mortgagees.
In the present case, a reasonable interpretation of the statutes creating the corporation would justify it in making the road where it was made.
A bondholder. of a class covered by a mortgage to secure the class of bonds
issued in case of*insolvency of the obligors cannot, by getting judgment at
law, be permitted to sell a portion of the property devoted to the common
security, as this would disturb the pro rata distribution among the bondhold
ers, to which they are equitably entitled.

