MERCANTILE TRUST CO. v. ROAD DIST. 117
Counsel for Parties.

MERCANTILE TRUST COMPANY v. WILMOT
ROAD DISTRICT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT
EIGHTH

No. 69.

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
CIRCUIT.

Argued October 26, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.

1. A covenant in bonds secured by deed of trust that, in case of
default, there shall be paid to the mortgage trustee, out of the
proceeds of the mortgaged subject matter, and before the payment
of the interest and principal of the bonds, a reasonable compensation to the trustee and to counsel it may find necessary to employ,
means that such payments shall be in addition to payment of the
bondholders. P. 118.
2. A statute creating a special improvement district, ordering an
assessment of benefits and the laying of a tax to pay the cost of the
improvement not exceeding the benefits assessed, and authorizing
a board, in order to do the work, to borrow money on negotiable
bonds and to mortgage the assessments for their repayment,
impliedly authorized the payment of reasonable fees to the mortgage trustee and its attorney, in case of foreclosure, out of the
fund created by the assessments. So held where the fund sufficed
to pay these costs and the bonds also. P. 119.
12 (F. (2d) 718, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 273 U. S. 676, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirming the District Court in its
refusal to allow payments for the services of a mortgage
trustee and. its counsel, in a suit to foreclose a deed of
trust mortgage. The mortgage, pursuant to a statute of
Arkansas, covered the assessments on lands to be benefited by a highway to be built with the proceeds of the
bonds.

Mr. George B. Rose, with whom Messrs. S. A. Mitchell,
D. H. Cantrell, J. F. Loughborough, A. W. Dobyns, and
A. F. House were on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. Robert E. Wiley for respondent.

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

275 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court,

This is a petition by the Mercantile Trust Company to
be allowed $2,500 for its services in a foreclosure suit as
trustee of the mortgage foreclosed and $7,500 paid to its
counsel in the cause. The District Court found that the
charges were reasonable, but disallowed them on the
ground that they were not provided for in the statute creating the Wilmot Road District that made the mortgage.
The decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
12 F. (2d) 718. A writ of certiorari was granted by this
Court. 273 U. S. 676.
The petitioner's reasoning convinces us that the charges
should be allowed as costs against the defendant. In the
bonds secured the District expressly covenants that in case
of default there shall be paid to the trustee out of the proceeds of the assessments pledged, 'and before the payment of the interest and principal of said bonds, a reasonable compensation to the Trustee and to such counsel as
the Trustee may find it necessary to employ.' This plainly
means a payment out of the assessments over and above
the payment to the bondholders, if the words are to receive
a natural interpretation and are not required by the statute to be read in a different sense.
The Adt creating the Road District, approved January
30, 1920, after indicating the highway to be laid out, orders
an assessment of benefits, § 6, and the laying of a tax to
pay the costs, not exceeding the value of the benefits
assessed, §§ 8-10, the collector receiving a commission, § 9,
and empowers the board of commissioners of the District
' to make all such contracts in the prosecution of the work
as may best subserve the public interest,' § 12. Then by
§ 13, 'in order to do the work,' the board is authorized to
borrow money, to issue negotiable bonds for the sum, and
to 'pledge and mortgage all assessments for the repay-

MERCANTILE TRUST CO. v. ROAD DIST. 119
117

Opinion of the Court.

ment thereof.' As said by the petitioner, a trustee obviously is necessary for a mortgage to secure bonds that
are expected to go into many hands, and if a foreclosure is
required a lawyer must be employed. The statute must
be taken to contemplate and authorize these usual incidents of the mortgage that it invites. It cannot have
expected the services to be gratuitous, and there is no reason why the cost should not be borne by those who made
them requisite. It is said that the assessment is a public
fund not to be applied except as its creation provides. A
pretty ignoble immunity has been secured at times on that
argument, but it should not be allowed to work more
injustice than is inevitable. As we have said, the implications of the statute are as the petitioner contends, and the
general rule of equity is statea with such force in Dodge v.
Tulleys, 144 U. S. 451, as to suggest a doubt whether a
State could deprive the Courts of the United States of
their power to impose these costs. We find nothing in the
decisions of the Supreme Court of Arkansas that leads us
to believe that that Court would read the statute as
attempting to prevent the costs being allowed. See
Arkansas Foundry Co. v. Stanley, 150 Ark. 127, 136.
It is to be observed that the fund got by the assessment
was not exhausted by the payment of the bonds, so that
no question arises on that score. Nor does it seem to us
that the District can get immunity from the words of § 20
forbidding the board to use any money arising from the
sale of the bonds for any purpose other than therein specified and expressly directed. For without stopping to
quibble over the fact that the money in question comes
from the assessment rather than from the sale of the
bonds, except to note that the section has a different aim,
it is &nough that, if we are right, the proposed use of the
money is expressly authorized, as a necessary incident of
the mortgage provided for in § 13. In other places the

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioner.

275 U. S.

statute contemplates payment for necessary services; we
cannot believe that it does not contemplate a similar payment here.
Decree reversed.

LEACH & COMPANY, INC. v. PEIRSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 78. Argued October 27, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.
1. Semble that under the Conformity Acts, rules of evidence established by decisions of the highest court of the State apply to an
action on contract between private parties in the District Court.
P. 127.
2. A man cannot make evidence for himself by writing a letter containing the statements that he wishes to prove. He does not make
the letter evidence by sending it to the party against whom he
wishes to prove the facts. P. 128.
3. 'A, having bought bonds of B through B's sales-agent, wrote B
that the purchase was made upon the understanding that B would
repurchase at the same price at A's request, and that he desired
to avail himself of that privilege. Held that B was under no
duty to answer the letter and that the letter was inadmissible to
prove the salesman's authority to make the agreement asserted.
P. 128.
16 F. (2d) 86, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 273 U. S. 676, to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a judgment recovered by
Peirson from the petitioner on an alleged agreement to
repurchase bonds sold by the latter to the former.

Mr. FrancisRawle, with whom Mr. Joseph W. Henderson was on the brief, for petitioner.
The trial court was bound, under the Conformity Acts,
by the decisions of the highest court of Pennsylvania on
rules of evidence. Bucher v. Cheshire Co., 125 U. S. 555;
Nashua Bank v. Anglo-Amer. Co., 189 U. S. 221; Amer.
Chem. Co. v. Hogan, 213 Fed. 416; Myers v. Moore Co.,

