UNITED STATES v. BERKENESS.
142

Statement of the Case.

and the rates of taxation are reduced, and then by (b)
it is provided that 'subdivision (a) of this section shall
take effect as of June 2, 1924,' the date when the earlier
act was passed. A reasonable interpretation is that the
reduction and the tax operate alike on gifts after that
date. Taking both statutes into account, and the principles of construction to which I have referred, I think it
tolerably plain that the Act should be read as referring
only to transactions taking place after it was passed, when
to disregard the rule 'would be to impose an unexpected
liability that if known might have induced those concerned to avoid it and to use their money in other ways.'
Lewellyn v. Frick, 268 U. S. 232, 251, 252.
On the general question whether there is power to tax
gifts I express no opinion now. I agree with the result
that the plaintiff is entitled to recover the taxes paid in
respect of gifts made before the statute went into effect.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

JUSTICE STONE concur in

and

MR.

this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. BERKENESS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 175. Argued October 11, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.
1. The provision of the National Prohibition Act that no warrant
shall issue to search any private dwelling occupied as such unless
it is being used for the unlawful sale of intoxicating liquor or is in
part used for some business purpose, supersedes pro tanto the Act
of February 14, 1917, applicable to Alaska alone. P. 151.
2. A provision in an earlier special act must give way when hostile
to a definite policy declared in a later general act. P. 155.
16 F. (2d) 115, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 274 U. S. 727, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirming a judgment of the District

150

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U.S.

Court for Alaska in favor of Berkeness, in a suit by the
United States under the Alaska liquor law to abate a
nuisance alleged to be maintained in his dwelling house.
Assistant Attorney General Willebrandt, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr. Mahlon D. Kiefer,
Chief Attorney, Department of Justice, were on the brief,
for the United States.
No appearance for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This proceeding was begun by the U. S. Attorney in
the District Court for Alaska to enjoin and abate a
nuisance said to be maintained in Berkeness' private
dwelling at Fairbanks.
The complaint alleges: That on the fifth day of May,
1925, the defendant "had in his possession at and in said,
premises intoxicating liquor, to wit, beer and wine, and
was engaged therein, in manufacturing intoxicating
liquor, to wit, beer, which said liquor was kept and stored
in said premises and was being manufactured therein by
said defendant, in violation of the provisions of the Act
of Congress, approved February 14, 1917, commonly
known as the Alaska Dry Law, and particularly in violation of Sections 19 and 20 of said Act.
"That said defendant has for a long time prior to the
5th day of May, 1925, kept and maintained said premises
as a common and public nuisance, and has, during said
time, kept intoxicating liquor in his possession, and stored
in said premises." It was dismissed because unsupported
by competent evidence.
A warrant, issued May 5, 1925, by the U. S. Commissioner at Fairbanks, commanded the Marshal to search
the premises then occupied by Berkeness as a private
dwelling for intoxicating liquors, alleged there to be kept,

UNITED STATES v. BERKENESS.
149

Opinion of the Court.

possessed and stored by him contrary to the Act of Congress approved February 14, 1917. The preceding affidavits did not charge the use of the dwelling for unlawful
sale of intoxicants or for any business purpose. The trial
court declared the warrant invalid and rejected all evidence obtained thereby. This action met approval by
the Circuit Court of Appeals.
An Act of Congress "To prohibit the manufacture or
sale of alcoholic liquors in the Territory of Alaska, etc.,"
approved February 14, 1917, c. 53, 39 Stat. 903,
provides"That on and after the first day of January, anno
Domini nineteen hundred and eighteen, it shall be unlawful for any person, house, association, firm, company,
club, or corporation, his, its, or their agents, officers,
clerks, or servants, to manufacture, sell, give, or otherwise
dispose of any intoxicating liquor or alcohol of any kind
in the Territory of Alaska, or to have in his or its possession or to transport any intoxicating liquor or alcohol in
the Territory of Alaska unless the same was procured and
is so possessed and transported as hereinafter provided."
"Sec. 13. That it shall be unlawful for any person
owning, leasing, or occupying or in possession or control
of any premises, building, vehicle, car, or boat to knowingly permit thereon or therein the manufacture, transportation, disposal, or the keeping of intoxicating liquor
with intent to manufacture, transport, or dispose of the
same in violation of the provisions of this Act."
"Sec. 17. That if one or more persons who are competent witnesses shall charge, on oath or affirmation,
before the district attorney or any of his deputies duly
authorized to act for him, presenting that any person,
company, copartnership, association, club, or corporation
has or have violated or is violating the provisions of this
Act by manufacturing, storing, or depositing, offering for
sale, keeping for sale or use, trafficking in, bartering, ex-

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

changing for goods, giving away, or otherwise furnishing
alcoholic liquor, shall request said district attorney or any
of his assistants duly authorized to act for him to cause
to be issued a warrant, said attorney or any of his assistants shall cause to be issued such warrant, in which warrant the room, house, building, or other place in which
the violation is alleged to have occurred or is occurring
shall be specifically described;
"
"Manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating
liquors within, the importation thereof into, or the exportation thereof from the United States and all territory
subject to the jurisdiction thereof for beverage purposes"
is forbidden by the Eighteenth Amendment.
The National Prohibition Act of October 28, 1919, "To
Prohibit Intoxicating Beverages, etc.," c. 85, Title II, 41
Stat. 305, 307, provides"Sec. 3. No person shall on or after the date when
the eighteenth amendment to the Constitution of the
United States goes into effect, manufacture, sell, barter,
transport, import, export, deliver, furnish or possess any
intoxicating liquor except as authorized in this Act, and
all the provisions of this Act shall be liberally construed
to the end that the use of intoxicating liquor as a beverage
may be prevented."
"Sec. 21. Any room, house, building, boat, vehicle,
structure, or place where intoxicating liquor is manufactured, sold, kept, or bartered in violation of this title, and
all intoxicating liquor and property kept and used in
maintaining the same, is hereby declared to be a common
nuisance, and any person who maintains such a common
nuisance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $1,000 or be
imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
"
"Sec. 22. An action to enjoin any nuisance defined in
this title may be brought. in the name of the United
States by the Attorney General of the United States or

UNITED STATES v. BERKENESS.
149

Opinion of the Court.

by any United States attorney or any prosecuting attorney of any State or any subdivision thereof or by the
commissioner or his deputies or assistants.
"Sec. 25. It shall be unlawful to have or possess any
liquor or property designed for the manufacture of liquor
intended for use in violating this title or which has been
so used, and no property rights shall exist in any such
liquor or property. A search warrant may issue as provided in Title XI of public law numbered 24 of the Sixtyfifth Congress, approved June 15, 1917, and such liquor,
the containers thereof, and such property so seized shall
be subject to such disposition as the court may make
thereof. If it is found that such liquor or property was
so unlawfully held or possessed, or had been so unlawfully
used, the liquor, and all property designed for the unlawful manufacture of liquor, shall be destroyed, unless the
court shall otherwise order. No search warrant shall issue
to search any private dwelling occupied as such unless it
is being used for the unlawful sale of intoxicating liquor,
or unless it is in part used for some business purpose such
as a store, shop, saloon, restaurant, hotel, or boarding
"
house.
"Sec. 33. After February 1, 1920, the possession of
liquors by any person not legally permitted under this
title to possess liquor shall be prima facie evidence that
such liquor is kept for the purpose of being sold, bartered,
exchanged, given away, furnished, or otherwise disposed
of in violation of the provisions of this title. . . . But
it shall not be unlawful to possess liquors in one's private
dwelling while the same is occupied and used by him as
his dwelling only and such liquor need not be reported,
provided such liquors are for use only for the personal
consumption of the owner thereof and his family residing
in such dwelling and of his bona fide guests when entertained by him therein; and the burden of proof shall be
upon the possessor in any action concerning the same to
.

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

prove that such liquor was lawfully acquired, possessed,
and used."
"Sec. 35. All provisions of law that are inconsistent
with this Act are repealed only to the extent of such inconsistency and the regulations herein provided for the manufacture or traffic in intoxicating liquor shall be construed
as in addition to existing laws.
Chapter 134, "An Act Supplemental to the National
Prohibition Act," approved November 23, 1921, 42 Stat.
222, declares-"Sec. 3. That this Act and the National Prohibition
Act shall apply not only to the United States but to all
territory subject to its jurisdiction, including the Territory of Hawaii and the Virgin Islands; and jurisdiction is
conferred on the courts of the Territory of Hawaii and the
Virgin Islands to enforce this Act and the National Prohibition Act in such Territory and Islands."
"Sec. 5. That all laws in regard to the manufacture
and taxation of and traffic in intoxicating liquor, and all
penalties for violations of such laws that were in force
when the National Prohibition Act was enacted, shall be
and continue in force, as to both beverage and nonbeverage liquor, except such provisions of such laws as are
directly in conflict with any provision of the National
Prohibition Act or of this Act; but if any act is a violation of any of such laws and also of the National Prohibibition Act or of this Act, a conviction for such act or
offense under one shall be a bar to prosecution therefcr
under the other. .
"Sec. 6. That any officer, agent, or employee of the
United States engaged in the enforcement of this Act,
or the National Prohibition Act, or any other law of the
United States, who shall search any private dwelling as
defined in the National Prohibition Act, and occupied as
such dwelling, without a warrant directing such search, or
who while so engaged shall without a search warrant ma-

UNITED STATES v. BERKENESS.
149

Opinion of the Court.

liciously and without reasonable cause search any other
building or property, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction thereof shall be fined for a first offense
not more than $1,000, and for a subsequent offense not
more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year,
or both such fine and imprisonment."
The court below held that by the legislation subsequent
to the Act of February 14, 1917, Congress imposed "a
limitation on the right to search a private dwelling which
is available to residents of Alaska equally with those in
other portions of the United States "; and we approve
that conclusion.
Notwithstanding known difficulties attending enforcement of prohibition legislation, Congress was careful to
declare in the National Prohibition Act that mere possession of liquor in one's home "shall not be unlawful"
and to forbid procurement of evidence through warrants
directing search of dwellings strictly private not alleged
to be used for unlawful sale. .The definite intention to
protect the home was further emphasized by ยง 6, Act of
1921.
It is argued that both the Act of 1917 and the later general Act are in full effect within Alaska-one a special act
for that Territory, and the other a general law for the
United States and all territory subject to their jurisdiction.
But the emphatic declaration that no private dwelling
shall be searched except under specified circumstances, discloses a general policy to protect the home against intrusion
through the use of search warrants. Certainly no adequate reason has been suggested for withholding from
those who reside in Alaska the safeguards deemed essential in all other territory subject to the jurisdiction of the
United States. The provision of the earlier special Act
is hostile to the later declaration of Congress and must
give way.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Counsel for Parties.

275 U. S.

Our conclusion is entirely consistent with established
canons of construction, stated and exemplified by Henderson's Tobacco, 11 Wall. 652; State v. Stoll, 17 Wall. 425,
431; Rodgers v. United States, 185 U. S. 83, 87; Washington v. Miller, 235 U. S. 422, and similar cases.
Affirmed.
ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO RAILROAD COMPANY ET AL. V. SPILLER ET AL.
MOTION TO AMEND JUDGMENT AND RETAX COSTS.

No. 577, October Term, 1926. Submitted October 3, 1927.-Decided
November 21, 1927.

1. Errors in a mandate due to mistake of the clerk may be corrected
after expiration of the term at which the judgment was entered.
P. 157.
2. The provision of par. 2 of ยง 16 of the Act to Regulate Commerce,
as amended, which exempts the petitioner in a suit to enforce a
reparation order from costs in the District Court or "at any subsequent stage" of the proceedings, unless they accrue upon his
appeal, is inapplicable to a suit based on a judgment recovered on
a reparation order, and brought for the purpose of enforcing an
alleged equity or lien against property once belonging to the judgment-debtor carrier, which had been sold on foreclosure. P. 158.
3. Under Rule 29 (3) of this Court, in the absence of specific provision to the contrary, costs are allowed against the defendant in
error, appellee or respondent when the judgment or decree below
is reversed in part and affirmed in part; and a provision for their
payment is properly inserted in the mandate by the clerk. P. 159.
Motion to retax costs denied.

Motion to amend the judgment and retax costs in 274
U. S. 304.
Messrs. E. S. Bailey, Walter H. Saunders, S. H. Cowan,
John A. Leahy, and David A. Murphy for respondents, in
support of the motion.

