ATL. C. L. R. R. v. STANDARD OIL CO.
254

257

Syllabus.

mere absence of such proof cannot limit the effect of the
dominant facts before us that the establishment of the
credit was the objective of the claimants, and that that
objective was attained when the credit was given. Douglas v. Federal Reserve Bank, 271 U. S. 489; Burton. v.
United States, 196 U. S. 283. We cannot assume, in the
absence of proof, that claimants, whose controlling purpose was to secure a credit with Knauth, Nachod &
Kuhne, were unwilling to accept the credit, when given,
because it anticipated the collection of the paper by
twenty-four hours. There is then no basis for the distinctions attempted, and this case is controlled by our
decision in No. 34. Considering the checks in the light
most favorable to claimants, as though the language relied
on appeared on the face of both checks, claimants are
nevertheless only general creditors of the bankrupts and
their petition was rightly denied by the district court.
The judgment of the district court is affirmed and that of
the court of appeals is affirmed in part and
Reversed in part.
ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY v.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY OF KENTUCKY.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY, INCORPORATED IN
KENTUCKY, v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 176 and 177.

Argued October 4, 1927.-Decided November 28,
1927.

The plaintiff company, engaged in selling oil (viz., gasolene and refined,
lubricating and fuel oils) within the State of Florida, had storage
tanks on and near the Florida seaboard in which it kept supplies sufficient to meet the demands of its business for considerable
83583°-28-----17

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Statement of the Case.

275 U. S.

periods in advance, and which it replenished from time to time by
fresh supplies purchased by it from other companies. The supplies so purchased were furnished by the vendors from places in the
State of Louisiana and in Mexico, respectively; transported by
them by sea at their own expense from those places to Florida, and
delivered by them in bulk to plaintiff, by pumping from the ships
through plaintiff's pipe lines, either directly into plaintiff's storage
tanks or (in the case of the lubricating oil) into tank cars leased by
plaintiff, in which the oil was moved by rail to its other storage
tanks, a few miles distant, and deposited therein. Title passed to
the plaintiff on delivery, and settlements with its vendors were
made on the basis of the amounts so actually delivered by them,
at the market prices in effect at times of delivery, or (in the case of
fuel oil) at prices fixed in advance in yearly contracts calling for
delivery of specified quantities each month. In the arrangements
with the vendors, none of the oil so brought in was designated or
intended for any destination in Florida beyond the storage tanks
or tank cars into which it was delivered from the ships, and there
was neither necessity nor purpose to send any of it through the
storage stations to interior points by immediate continuity of movement, although delivery into storage tanks might occur contemporaneously with withdrawal of oil from the same tanks for
the purpose of supplying plaintiff's bulk and service stations, and
although sales of fuel oil to customers were largely contracted for by
plaintiff in advance of shipment of such oil to plaintiff from point
of origin.
Held, that rail transportation of the oil from the storage tanks
to plaintiff's customers in Florida, or to plaintiff's bulk and service
stations there from which it was sold to such customers, was intrastate commerce and subject to intrastate rates. P. 267.
16 F. (2d) 441, reversed; 13 Id., 633, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 273 U. S. 691, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which modified a decree of the District
Court enjoining the above-named Railroad Company
from charging the Oil Company in excess of the intrastate
rates for transportation of its products between certain
points in Florida, and adjudging that the Oil Company
recover the amount of such excess charges already

collected.

ATL. C. L. R. R. v. STANDARD OIL CO. 259
257

Argument for Atlantic Coast Line. R. R.

Mr. Thomas W. Davis, with whom Mr. William Marshall Bullitt was on the brief, for Atlantic Coast Line
Railroad Co.
The application of the rates depends upon the essential
character of the commerce and not upon its accidents or
isolated incidents. The acts of plaintiff and its customers,
in making yearly contracts for petroleum products to be
delivered at interior points in Florida, of themselves constitute interstate commerce. Butler Shoe Co. v. U. S.
Rubber Co., 156 Fed. 1; Internat'l Book Co. v. Pigg, 217
U. S. 91; Flanaganv. Fed. Coal Co., 267 U. S. 222; Spalding & Bros. v. Edwards, 262 U. S. 66; Lemke v. Farmers
Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50; Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282; Shafer v. Farmers Co., 268 U. S. 189.
The question of where title passes is of no materiality;
but the intention of the parties, as shown throughout
their course of business, governs. Penna. R. R. v. Clark
Bros. Co., 258 U. S. 456; Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S.
495; Sou. Pac. Term. Co. v. I. C. C., 219 U. S. 498; Swift
& Co. v. U. S., 196 U. S. 375; B. & 0. S. W. R. R. v. Settle,
260 U. S. 166.
The movement of lubricating oil from Port Tampa,
and of lubricating oil, gasoline, and kerosene from Jacksonville, are both interstate commerce and the reasoning
of the Circuit Court of Appeals to the contrary is erroneous, because it makes the character of those movements to the interior depend not upon their intrinsic
nature, but upon the amount of the small percentage sold
locally. Western Oil Co. v. Lipscomb, 244 U. S. 346;
R. R. Comm. v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101; Peoples Gas
Co. v. Pub. Ser. Comm. of Penna., 270 U. S. 550; Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S. 291; Douglas v. Southern Ry. Co., 216 Ill. App. 148.
Decisions of the Interstate Commerce Commission:
Tampa Fuel Co. v. A. C. L. R. R., 43 I. C. C. 231; Internat'l Agr. Corp. v. Director General, 60 I. C. C. 726;

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Standard Oil Co.

275 U. S.

Alexander Grocery Co. v. Beaumont, etc. Ry. Co., 104
I. C. C. 155.
Cases distinguished: Sonneborn v. Keeling, 262 U. S.
506; Penna.R. R. v. Clark Bros., 238 U. S. 506; Sou. Pac.
Co. v. Arizona, 249 U. S. 472; Arkadelphia Co. v. S. L. &
S. W. Ry., 249 U. S. 134; Penna. R. R. v. Knight, 192
U. S. 21; Gulf, Colo. & S. F. Ry. v. Texas, 204 U. S. 403.
Oil cases from North Carolina and Florida: Atl. Coast
Line v. Std. Oil Co., 12 F. (2d) 541; State v. Seaboard
etc. Ry. and Atl. Coast Line, 109 Sou. 656; Hamilton Co.
v. Wolff, 240 U. S. 258; Hughes Bros. Co. v. Minnesota,
272 U. S. 469.
Mr. Charles G. Middleton, with whom Messrs. Edward
P. Humphrey and William W. Crawford were on the brief,
for the Standard Oil Company of Kentucky.
The business in Florida is local and intrastate rates
should be applied to the transportation necessary to serve
it. Atl. Coast Line R. v. Std. Oil Co., 12 F. (2d) 541,
certiorari denied, 273 U. S. 712; Std. Oil Co. v. Atl. Coast
Line, 6 F. (2d) 911; Seaboard etc. Ry. v. Florida, 109
Sou. 656, certiorari granted, 273 U. S. 691.
When products are unloaded, stored and mixed with
other property in the State, interstate commerce is ended
for all purposes. General Oil Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S. 211;
Texas Co. v. Brown, 258 U. S. 466; Sonneborn Bros. v.
Cureton, 262 U. S. 506.
The business of supplying on demand local consumers,
is a local business. Pub. Util. Comm. v. Landon, 249
U. S. 236; Mo. v. Kansas Co., 265 U. S. 298; People's
Gas Co. v. Pub. Ser. Comm., 270 U. S. 550; Pub. Util.
Comm. of R. I., v. Attleboro etc. Co., 273 U. S. 83.
The Florida ports are, in good faith and for business
purposes, points of distribution for the Company's products. The movement out, therefore, is a separate and
distinct distributing movement and not a continuation of

ATL. C. L. R. R. v. STANDARD OIL CO. 261
257

Opinion of the Court.

the original movement. Gulf, Colo. & S. F. Ry. v. Texas,
204 U. S. 403; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. v. Iowa, 233 U. S.
334; Arkadelphia Co. v. St. Louis etc. Ry., 249 U. S. 134.
Distinguished: Texas & N. 0. R. R. v. Sabine Co., 227
U. S. 111; B. & 0. R. R. v. Settle, 266 U. S. 166; Stafford
v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495; Binderup v. Pathe, 263 U. S.
291; Lemke, Atty. Gen. v. Farmers Co., 258 U. S. 50.
The traffic in fuel oil is also intrastate traffic. Washington etc. Co. v. G. N. Ry., 102 I. C. C. 363;
Distinguished: Internat'l Corp. v. Director Gen'l, 60
I. C. C. 726; Alexander Grocery Co. v. Beaumont, S. L. &
W. Ry., 104 I. C. C. 155; Tampa Fuel Co. v. A. C. L., 43
I. C. C. 231.
Mr. Fred H. Davis, Attorney General of Florida, ahd
Messrs. Theodore T. Turnbull and George C. Bedell, filed
a brief as amici curiae for the State of Florida and its
Railroad Commission, by special leave of Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case comes here for review on petitions for certiorari to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit by both parties, allowed March 21, 1927
(273 U. S. 691). The District Court's opinion is reported
in 13 F. (2d) 633; that of the Circuit Court of Appeals
in 16 F. (2d) 441.
The case was begun by a bill in equity filed by the
Standard Oil Company, a corporation of Kentucky, in
the District Court for the Western District of Kentucky,
against the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company, a
corporation of Virginia, to secure an injunction forbidding
the defendant from charging the complainant for the
transportation of gasoline, refined oil, lubricating oil, and
fuel oil, from the cities of Port Tampa, Tampa and Jacksonville, all in Florida, to other points in the same state,

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

at rates of freight other than the lawfully established
intrastate rates for such commodities.
The bill avers that since June 15, 1923, the defendant
railroad company has refused to accept shipments of the
complainant from Port Tampa, Tampa and Jacksonville,
Florida, to other points within the state at intrastate
rates, and has compelled the complainant to pay thereon
higher interstate rates, which it has done under protest;
that according to the records of the complainant it has
already overpaid to the defendant, between June 15, 1923,
and April 17, 1925, the sum of $63,000. The prayer is
for a temporary injunction and that, if the merits of the
case are adjudged in favor of the complainant, a permanent injunction be granted and the case be referred to
a special master to determine the overcharges, and that a
judgment be entered therefor with interest at 6 per cent.
from the date the same were accepted by the defendant
until paid.
The answer denies that the charges collected were for
other than interstate business. A motion to dismiss was
made, on the ground that the complainant had an adequate remedy, either at the common law, or under a
special remedy provided by the Florida statute. This
motion to dismiss was overruled by the District Court,
Standard Oil Company v. Atlantic Coast Line Railroad
Co., 13 F. (2d) 633; and while on appeal error was assigned for this, it does not appear to have been considered
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 16 F. (2d) 441, and is
not assigned for error here. The jurisdiction rests on
diverse citizenship of the parties and the only question
before us is upon the merits.
The plaintiff maintains at Port Tampa, Tampa and
Jacksonville large storage facilities, consisting of tanks
and warehouses for receiving and storing gasoline, refined
oil, lubricating oil and fuel oil. It does not produce or
refine any of these products, Gasoline, refined oil and

ATL. C. L. R. R. v. STANDARD OIL CO. 263
257

Opinion of the Court.

lubricating oil it buys from the Standard Oil Company of
Louisiana from its refineries at Baton Rouge, Louisiana,
while the fuel oil it buys from the Standard Oil Company
of New Jersey from Tampico, Mexico. These four varieties of oil products are brought into Port Tampa and
Jacksonville in tank steamers owned .and chartered by the
sellers, and, with the exception of lubricating oil, the oil
is pumped by ships' pumps from the steamers through
pipe lines owned by the plaintiff into plaintiff's storage
tanks at Port Tampa and at St. Johns River Terminal,
Jacksonville, Florida. Lubricating oil is pumped from
the tank steamers by ships' pumps into tank cars at Port
Tampa, or at Jacksonville, and by them conveyed respectively over defendant's lines to plaintiff's storage tanks
at Tampa, a distance of about nine miles from Port
Tampa, or to Kings Road, a distance of about two miles
from St. Johns River Terminal, near Jacksonville. All
the products are purchased by the plaintiff to be delivered
to it by the sellers at Port Tampa and Jacksonville, title
not passing to the plaintiff until the products have been
so delivered, settlement between the seller and purchaser
being made upon the basis of the amount actually delivered into tank cars and tanks. The prices to be paid for
gasoline, refined oil and lubricating oil are the current
market prices in effect at the time the products are delivered to plaintiff at Port Tampa and Jacksonville. Fuel
oil is purchased on yearly contracts at stipulated prices.
The tank cars used by the plaintiff in its business are not
owned by the railroad company, but are leased by the
plaintiff and hauled by the defendant over its lines in
common carrier service.
At Port Tampa, plaintiff maintains for the storage of
gasoline five tanks, with an aggregate capacity of 110,000
barrels; for refined oil, storage tanks with a total capacity
of 20,000 barrels; and for fuel oil, tanks with a total
capacity of 127,000 barrels. At Jacksonville, it maintains

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

for the storage of gasoline, tanks with a total capacity of
162,000 barrels; for refined oil, storage tanks with.a
capacity of 40,000 barrels, and for fuel oil, storage tanks
with a total capacity of 145,000 barrels.
Throughout Florida the plaintiff maintains 123 bulk
stations where it has sufficient tankage and storage facilities for gasoline, refined oil and lubricating oil to meet the
current needs of its customers supplied from such stations.
These stations ordinarily get their supply of gasoline and
refined oil from the storage tanks maintained at Port
Tampa and Jacksonville, by means of tank cars. Very
little, if any, gasoline or refined oil is delivered to consumers directly-from the storage tanks at Port Tampa and
Jacksonville. The gasoline and refined oils are delivered
from the bulk stations to plaintiff's consumers by means
of tank wagons. Plaintiff also maintains a large number
of service stations in the State of Florida, which, in the
usual course of business, are supplied with gasoline and
refined oil directly from the bulk stations, although occasionally a service station is supplied with gasoline supplied
in tank cars directly from Port Tampa and Jacksonville.
.Under ordinary business conditions plaintiff keeps in its
storage tanks at Port Tampa and at Jacksonville a sufficient supply of gasoline and refined oil to take care of its
requirements for from forty-five to sixty days; a sufficient
supply of fuel oil for from thirty to sixty days; and in its
storage tanks at Tampa and at Kings Road a sufficient
supply of lubricating oil for from sixty to ninety days, the
exact time depending entirely upon business conditions
and demands for the products in that section of the state.
The plaintiff pays local taxes to the State of Florida on
all of its products in hand in its storage tanks on the
Florida assessing dates.
After the lubricating oil is placed in the storage tanks at
Tampa and at Kings Road, it is distributed and sold in
tank wagons, barrels and smaller containers, although a

ATL. C. L. R. R. v. STANDARD OIL CO. 265
257

Opinion of the Court.

small percentage of it is sent out in tank wagon cars to
plaintiff's bulk stations and possibly to some small
consumers.
The fuel oil is furnished by the Standard Oil Company
of New Jersey to the plaintiff under a yearly contract for
a million barrels to be delivered monthly in tank steamers
at Port Tampa and Jacksonville as needed. Approximately ninety-five per cent. of the fuel oil sold by plaintiff
in Florida is on contracts made before the oil has been
shipped from the point of origin to plaintiff at Port
Tampa and Jacksonville. Most of these are for a period of
a year, covering the requirements of the various consumers, with average monthly deliveries stipulated, although,
in actual practice, shipments from the storage tanks to
the consumers are accommodated to their needs as under
requirement contracts. There is no separation of the fuel
oil under contract from that not under contract, all being
of the same grade. At the time the shipment of the fuel
oil is made from the point of origin, plaintiff can not say
where any particular cargo of it, or any part thereof, will
go after it has been pumped into the storage tanks, to
whom it will go, or when it will be shipped. At the time
of shipment from the point of origin, the only destinations
which can be given are Port Tampa and Jacksonville,
respectively.
The railway company has nothing to do with the boat
movement of the products used by the plaintiff in its
Florida business. There is no through rate and no joint
arrangement of any character between the water carrier
and the defendant. Movement by boat, while interstate
commerce, is not actually under regulation by the Interstate Commerce Commission. From two to four boats per
month, with an average capacity of 45,000 barrels each,
discharge their cargoes in plaintiff's storage facilities at
Port Tampa and Jacksonville. A boat requires from one
to three days to discharge its cargo, and while boats are

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

engaged in discharging their cargoes into the storage tanks
of plaintiff, tank cars are being loaded from the same
storage tanks, for the purpose of supplying plaintiff's bulk
stations, service stations and possibly a small amount
directly to some consumers.
Plaintiff has been conducting its business in the manner
here stated for many years, and it was not adopted for the
purpose of evading the payment of interstate rates. Its
business could not be conducted without the storage
facilities herein described, and until June 15, 1923, all
shipments by the plaintiff from Port Tampa, Tampa and
Jacksonville over defendant's lines to other points in
Florida over purely intrastate routes, were accepted by the
defendant as intrastate commerce. Since June 15, 1923,
however, the defendant has classified these shipments as
interstate commerce, and collected freight on the basis of
interstate rates. Generally, in respect to this transportation, the intrastate rates approved by the Florida State
Commission are lower than the interstate rates under the
classification of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
and it is the difference in favor of the plaintiff in the intrastate rates which has led to this litigation.
The District Court held that all the transportation of oil
by the defendant for the plaintiff, after the oil reaches
the storage tanks or tank cars, in Tampa, Port Tampa or
Jacksonville, is intrastate commerce, and that the plaintiff is entitled to secure the transportation necessary in
that commerce at intrastate rates. 13 F. (2d) 633. The
Circuit Court of Appeals modified the order of the District Court, 16 F. (2d) 441, and held that the fuel oil
landed at Port Tampa is a continuous foreign and interstate shipment from Tampico to its ultimate destination
in Florida where it is used; that the gasoline and kerosene
shipments through to Port Tampa must also be classified
as interstate shipments from Baton Rouge to the bulk stations where they are distributed; that the lubricating oils

ATL. C. L. IR. R. v. STANDARD OIL CO.
257

267

Opinion of the Court.

received at Port Tampa must be treated as distributed
from the Tampa and Jacksonville storage tanks, and that
from those places its transportation is to be regarded as
intrastate; that as to gasoline and kerosene in Jacksonville, as 13 per cent. of it received into the tanks is used
locally at Jacksonville, it must all be regarded as intrastate; that as to Jacksonville fuel oil the record is obscure
and the case must be sent back to the trial court for further evidence.
These two writs of certiorari are secured, the one by the
plaintiff oil company to reverse the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in so far as it reversed the District
Court, and the other by the defendant railway company
to reverse that decision in so far as it affirmed the District
Court.
It seems very clear to us on a broad view of the facts
that the interstate or foreign commerce in all this oil ends
upon its delivery to the plaintiff into the storage tanks or
the storage tank cars at the seaboard, and that from there
its distribution to storage tanks, tank cars, bulk stations
and drive-in stations, or directly by tank wagons to customers, is all intrastate commerce. This distribution is
the whole business of the plaintiff in Florida. There is
no destination intended and arranged for with the ship carriers in Florida at any point beyond the deliveries from
the vessels to the storage tanks or tank cars of the plaintiff. There is no designation of any particular oil for any
particular place within Florida beyond the storage receptacles or storage tank cars into which the oil is first delivered by the ships. The title to the oil in bulk passes
to the plaintiff as it is thus delivered. When the oil
reaches these storage places along the Florida seaboard, it
is within the control and ownership of the plaintiff for use
for its particular purposes in Florida. The plaintiff is
free to distribute the oil according to the demands of its
business, and it arranges its storage capacity to meet the

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1927..
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

future variation in its business needs at Tampa, Port
Tampa, or Jacksonville or St. Johns River Terminal.
The question whether commerce is interstate or intrastate must be determined by the essential character of the
commerce, and not by mere billing or forms of contract,
although that may be one of a group of circumstances
tending to show such character. The reshipment of an interstate or foreign shipment does not necessarily establish
a continuity of movement or prevent the shipment to a
point within the same state from having an independent
or intrastate character, even though it be in the same cars.
Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Iowa, 233 U. S. 334. The
change from rail to ship has often been held consistent
with a continuity of interstate or foreign commerce, even
though there may be only local billing. Texas & New
Orleans R. R. Co. v. Sabine Tram Co., 227 U. S. 111; Railroad Commission of Louisianav. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co.,
229 U. S. 336; Baer Bros. Mercantile Co. v. Denver & Rio
Grande Railroad Co., 233 U. S. 479. On the other hand,
in Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Iowa, supra, the reshipment of an interstate shipment of coal after its arrival in
the state in the same carload lots was held not inconsistent
with the change from interstate to intrastate commerce.
In Baltimore & Ohio S. W. R. R. Co. v. Settle, 260 U. S.
166, 170, a shipper billed his goods from one state to
another, paying the interstate freight and reshipped them
to another point in the second state, intending from the
first to reach the latter destination,, but interrupting the
transportation only to take advantage of a difference in
his favor between the through rate and the sum of those
paid. It was held that the essential nature of the entire
movement was in interstate commerce and that the shipper must pay the only lawful rate, which was the interstate
commerce rate to the final destination. These cases are
illustrations to show that the determination of the char-

ATL. C. L. R. R. v. STANDARD OIL CO.
257

269

Opinion of the Court.

acter of the commerce is a matter of weighing the whole
group of facts in respect to it.
The important controlling fact in the present controversy, and what characterizes the nature of the commerce
involved, is that the plaintiff's whole plan is to arrange
deliveries of all of its oil purchases on the seaboard of
Florida so that they may all be there stored for convenient
distribution in the state to the 123 bulk stations and to
fuel oil plants in varying quantities according to the demand of the plaintiff's customers, and thence be distributed to subordinate centers and delivery stations, and this
plan is being carried out daily. There is neither necessity
nor purpose to send the oil through these seaboard storage
stations to interior points by immediate continuity of
transportation. The seaboard storage stations are the
natural places for a change from interstate and foreign
transportation to that which is intrastate, and there is
nothing in the history of the whole transaction which
makes them otherwise, either in intent or in fact. There
is nothing to indicate that the destination of the oil is
arranged for or fixed in the minds of the sellers beyond
the primary seaboard storages of the plaintiff company at
Tampa, Port Tampa, Jacksonville or the St. Johns River
Terminal. Everything that is done after the oil is deposited in the storage tanks at the Tampa destinations, or
at the Jacksonville destinations, is done in the distribution
of the oil to serve the purposes of the plaintiff company
that imported it. Neither the sellers who deliver the oil,
nor the railroad company that aids the delivery of the oil
to the storage tanks and tank cars at the seaboard, has
anything to do with determining what the ultimate
destination of the oil is, or has any interest in it, or has any
duty to discharge in respect to it, except that the railroad
company, after the storage in Florida has been established
for the purposes of the plaintiff company, accepts the duty

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

of transporting it in Florida to the places designated by
the plaintiff company.
The compensation for the transportation of the oil
through the pipe lines from the steamers to the storage
tanks or to the storage tank cars, and the transportation
of those cars to the seaboard storage tanks of the plaintiff,
is not here in question, and we are not asked to determine
whether such deliveries to the storage tanks and cars on
the seaboard from the steamers are interstate or foreign
commerce.
We have no hesitation in saying that the nature of the
commerce in controversy in this case was intrastate.
The case is like that of General Oil Company v. Crain,
209 U. S. 211, in which the General Oil Company sought
an injunction against the collection of a tax for the inspection of certain of its oils in Tennessee, which it had brought
into Tennessee and stored in tanks, and marked in storage
tanks as oil already sold in Arkansas, Louisiana and Mississippi, and which remained in Tennessee only long
enough to be properly distributed according to the orders
therefor, and other oil in other tanks marked to be sold
in those states but for which no orders at the time of shipment from the manufacturing plants had been received.
This Court held that the Tennessee tax was not a burden
on interstate commerce as applied to oil coming from
certain states though ultimately intended for sale and distribution in states other than Tennessee; that the oil was
subject to a tax while it was being stored in Tennessee for
convenience of distribution and for reshipping in tank cars
and barrels; that this was business done in Tennessee,
where the oil was brought to rest, and was for a purpose
outside its mere transportation.
It is not a question of maintaining the identity of oil
as if a fungible in storage tanks through which it passed.
The facts indicate that the plaintiff itself makes no such
distinction and certainly agrees with no one to make such

ATL. C. L. R. R. v. STANDARD OIL CO.
257

271

Opinion of the Court.

a distinction. The fuel oil is not different from the other
kinds. While the fuel oil is purchased by the plaintiff
from a selling company, which has a year's contract, the
seller delivers it from Tampico, at the Florida seaboard, as
it is likely to be needed to meet the obligations of a number of yearly contracts made by the plaintiff for its delivery in certain parts of Florida. No oil which comes in
is labeled or identified in any particular way with any
particular company, except after it is shipped to that
company from Tampa or from Jacksonville. There is no
passage of title from plaintiff to the contract purchasers,
and there is no setting apart of particular oil, until the
shipments are made at the end of this interval of weeks
and months in accordance with the needs of those who
have contracted to buy it.
The argument is made that these are continuous
streams of oil from Baton Rouge or Tampico into bulk
stations in the interior of Florida where it is sold to the
customers of the plaintiff, and that its interstate character
continues through that entire passage. It may be, as
suggested in the argument, that oil is being discharged
into plaintiff's receptacles for its storage at the same time
that it is being discharged from the storage tanks into
storage tank cars for its distribution, but that is not at all
inconsistent with its being a closing of an interstate or
foreign transportation and a beginning of intrastate distribution for the purposes and business of the plaintiff.
We think the view of the Supreme Court of Florida in
a mandamus case in respect to these very rates is the
.correct one. State v. Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co.; Same v.
Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Co., 109 Sou. 656. We concur in the reasoning and conclusions of the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit in
Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Co. v. Standard Oil Co. of
New Jersey; Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v. Same, 12 F.
(2d) 541.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U.S.

Reliance is put on Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495,
to sustain the claim that this transportation of plaintiff's
oil in Florida is interstate commerce. In that case the
question under consideration was the validity of the
Packers and Stockyards Act of Congress of 1921, c. 64, 42
Stat. 159, providing for the supervision by Federal authority of the business of the commission men and of the
live stock dealers in the great stock yards of the country,
and it was held that for the purpose of protecting interstate commerce from the power of the packers to fix arbitrary prices for live stock and meat through their
monopoly of its purchase, preparation in meat, and sales,
Congress had power to regulate the business done in the
stockyards, although there was a good deal of it which
was, strictly speaking, only intrastate commerce. It was
held that a reasohable fear upon the part of Congress,
that acts usually affecting only intrastate commerce when
occurring alone, would probably and more or less constantly be performed in aid of conspiracies against interstate commerce, or constitute a direct and undue obstruction and restraint of it, would serve to bring such acts
within lawful Federal statutory restraint.
The Court relied much on the case of United States v.
Ferger, 250 U. S. 199, where the validity of an act of
Congress, punishing forgery and utterance of bills of lading for fictitious shipments in interstate commerce, was in
question. It was there contended that there was and
could be no commerce on a fraudulent and fictitious bill of
lading, and therefore that the power of Congress could not
embrace such pretended bill. In upholding the act, this
Court, speaking through Chief Justice White, answered
the objection by saying:
"But this mistakenly assumes that the power of Congress is to be necessarily tested by the intrinsic existence
of commerce in the particular subject dealt with, instead
of by the relation of that subject to commerce and its

ATL. C. L. It. R. v. STANDARD OIL CO.
257

273

Opinion of the Court.

effect upon it. We say mistakenly assumes, because wethink it clear that if the proposition were sustained it
would destroy the power of Congress to regulate, as obviously that power, if it is to exist, must include the
authority to deal with obstructions to interstate commerce (In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564) and with a host of other
acts which, because of their relation to and influence upon
interstate commerce, come within the power of Congress
to regulate, although they are not interstate commerce in
and of themselves."
The use of this authority as a basis for the conclusion
in Stafford v. Wallace clearly shows that the case can not
be cited to show what is interstate and what is intrastate
commerce in a controversy over rates to determine
whether they come normally within the regulation of
Federal or State authority.
Our conclusion is that, in all the cases presented by the
plaintiff in its bill, intrastate rates should have been
applied and should be applied in the future, so long as
the facts remain as they are now. This leads to a reversal
of the decision of the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals as
to fuel oil from Port Tampa, as to gasoline and kerosene
from Tampa, and an affirmation of its decision as to
lubricating oil through Port Tampa; an affirmation of
its decision as to gasoline from Jacksonville, as to kerosene from Jacksonville, and as to lubricating oil from
Jacksonville. As to fuel oil from Jacksonville, the Circuit
'Court of Appeals left the matter undetermined. We
think that fuel oil also from Jacksonville should be treated
as subject to intrastate rates. The result is that the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals is partly affirmed
and partly reversed, that of the District Court is wholly
affirmed, and the case is remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings.
Affirmed in part; reversed in part.
83583°-28-18

