OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

275 U. S.

Hence no error was committed by the trial court in its
rulings. A trial by jury having been waived in writing,
our review in this case is limited to the sufficiency of the
facts specially found to support the judgment, and to the
rulings excepted to and presented by the bill of exceptions,
Rev. Stat. §§ 649, 700; Fleischmann Co. v. United States,
270 U. S. 349, and we are without power to grant a new
trial except for error thus presented. Mueller Grain, Co.
v. American State Bank, post, p. 493, reversing 15 Fed.
(2d) 899. The judgment of the district court was right,
for reasons other than those assigned by it. It is affirmed
and the judgment of the court of appeals is
Reversed.
EQUITABLE TRUST COMPANY, TRUSTEE, v.

ROCHLING

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 34.

Argued October 14, 17, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.

1. Where a bank, before the filing of a petition in bankruptcy against
it, received deposits of checks, the proceeds of which were later collected by its trustee in bankruptcy, the depositor is entitled to claim
the proceeds of the deposit only if the bank received the checks
as an agent for collection, but must stand as an ordinary creditor
if ownership of the paper passed to the bank. P. 252.
2. Respondents, who were bankers of Frankfort-on-Main, desired in
the course of their international business, to arrange a credit at
New York. Pursuant to instructions issued at their request by
London connections, New York banks delivered to a New York
banking firm (afterwards bankrupt) their cashier's checks drawn
payable to the order of that firm "for account of" respondents.
On the same day, the firm, in following a course of dealing previously established with respondents, credited the checks to respondents' account, made book entries indicating that respondents were
entitled to interest on the amount from that date, and deposited
them to its own credit in other banks. Before collection of the
checks, the petition in bankruptcy was filed. Held-That the

EQUITABLE TRUST CO. v. ROCHLING.
248

249

Argument for Respondent.

words "for account of" were not necessarily to be taken as constituting the payee an agent for collection, but were to be construed
in the light of the intention of the parties as revealed by all the
circumstances, and in this instance their purpose was to advise the
bankrupt of the account to which the checks were to be credited,
and not make it an agent for collection, or restrict its rights as
purchaser. P. 253.
10 F. (2d) 935, reversed.

CERTIORAi, 271 U. S. 653, to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, which reversed an order of the
District Court dismissing a petition of the respondents
for reclamation of the proceeds of checks collected by the
above named trustee in bankruptcy.
Mr. Godfrey Goldmark, with whom Messrs. George G.
Ernst and Ralph F. Colin were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Henry G. Hotchkiss, with whom Mr. William H.
White, Jr., was on the brief, for respondents.
Early English authorities decided that the words "for
account of" were restrictive. Truettel v. Barandon, 8
Taunt. 100; Coxe v. Harden, 4 East 211; Lloyd v.
Sigourney, 5 Bing. 525.
The modern English rule is the same in cases of
"crossed cheques." The Laws of England, by Lord Halsbury, Vol. 1, p. 569; Vol. 2, p. 480; Morse on Banks and
Banking, 6th Ed., § 245.
Early American federal and state cases follow the English rule. Lee v. Chillicothe Bank, 15 Fed. Cas. 151;
Leary v. Blanchard,48 Me. 269; Blaine v. Bourne, 11 R. I.
119.
The words "for account of" held to be restrictive.
White v. Miner's Nat'l Bank, 102 U. S. 658. Followed in
Commercial Nat'l Bank v. Armstrong, 148 U. S. 50; Old
Nat'l Bank of Evansville v. German American Nat'l Bank
of Peoria, 155 U. S. 556; The Nyssa-Arcadia Drainage
Dist. v. The First Nat'l Bank, 3 F. (2d) 648.

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Respondent.

275 U. A.

The legal restrictive effect of the words "for account
of" and "for collection" is identical. Old Nat'l Bank of
Evansville v. Bank, supra; The Nyssa-Arcadia Drainage
Dist. v. Bank, supra; Bank of Metropolis v. First Nat'l
Bank of Jersey City, 19 Fed. 301.
The restrictive effect of the words "for collection" is
recognized in practice by the New York Clearing House.
Paton's Digest of Legal Opinions and Banking Law,
§ 2747.
The words "for account of" are restrictive within the
:definition of the Negotiable Instruments Law of New
York.
The effect of the restrictive wording was to prevent
Knauth, Nachod & Kuhne from obtaining title to the
checks or their proceeds.
The words "Through the New York Clearing House"
and "Payable Only Through the New York Clearing
House" are also restrictive.
Nothing in the dealings of the parties nor in the circumstances surrounding the case in any way changes the
legal effect of the wording appearing on the checks.
Lloyd's Bank and The Swiss Bank were liable to respondents for any delay in payments that might arise.
The reversal of the entries in the case of the Speyer
check indicates the equivocal nature of the credit of the
check and entries for interest.
The crediting of the checks does not affect the restrictive quality of the words appearing thereon. Nat'l B. &
D. Bank v. Hubbell, 117 N. Y. 384; In re Jarmulowsky,
249 Fed. 319; Beal v. City of Somerville, 50 Fed. 647.
The entries relating to interest are equally insufficient
to change the legal consequences of the wording on the
face of the checks. Fifth Nat'l Bank v. Armstrong, 40
Fed. 46; Morse on Banks and Banking, 6th Ed. § 658 (c).
The facts in the present case bring it within the authority of White v. The Bank, supra, and not within the purview of Burton v. U. S., 196 U. S. 283.

EQUITABLE TRUST CO. v. ROCHLING.
248

251

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondents, bankers of Frankfort-on-Main, maintained a general deposit account with the bankrupts, who
were private bankers in New York City. On instruction
of Lloyds Bank, Ltd., London, which was requested by
respondents "to procure this amount for us" on June 15,
1923, "at Knauth, Nachod & Kuhne, New York," the
National Bank of Commerce in New York on that day
delivered to Knauth, Nachod & Kuhne, the bankrupts, its
cashier's check for $30,000 payable to their order "for account of Rochling Bank, Gebt. Frankfort-on-Main," and
took from them their receipt for the check " for account
of Rochling Bank." On instruction of the Swiss Bank,
London, the National City Bank, New York, on the same
date delivered its cashier's check for $30,000, payable to
the order of Knauth, Nachod & Kuhne, "A/C Gebr. Rochling, Frankfort A/M," taking from them a receipt in like
form. On that day, too, the bankrupts credited the account of respondents with the two checks and made an
entry on their books indicating that respondents were
entitled to interest on the amount of the checks from
that date. The checks were deposited by Knauth,
Nachod & Kuhne in their own deposit accounts in other
banks and were there credited to those accounts. On the
following day, June 16, 1923, before the collection of the
checks, the petition in bankruptcy was filed.
In receiving these checks, forthwith crediting respondents with them, and in crediting interest from the date
of their receipt, the bankrupts followed the established
course of their business with respondent which had extended over a period of more than two years. Periodic
statements of the accouht rendered to respondents showed
that interest was credited from the day of deposit, and
that on occasion drafts were made against deposits before they had been collected.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

Respondents' petition, filed in the district court for
southern New York, for reclamation of the proceeds of the
checks, was dismissed. The order of the district court was
reversed by the circuit court of appeals for the second
circuit, 10 Fed. (2d) 935. This Court granted certiorari.
271 U. S. 653.
The proceeds of the two checks concededly have come
into the hands of the petitioner, the bankrupts' trustee,
and the sole question presented is whether the bankrupts,
on receipt of the checks and before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, became the owners of them, or
whether, as the court of appeals held, Knauth, Nachod &
Kuhne were respondents' agents to collect them. If the
former, respondents were creditors of the bankrupts,
Douglas v. FederalReserve Bank, 271 U. S. 489; Burton
v. United States, 196 U. S.283, entitled to share only on
an equal footing with other creditors. If the latter, respondents were entitled to reclamation from the petitioner
since the checks had not been collected at the time of the
petition in bankruptcy. St. Louis & San FranciscoRy. v.
Johnston, 133 U. S. 566; White v. Stump, 266 U. S.
310, 313; Bankruptcy Act, § 70 (a), c. 541, 30 Stat. 544,
565, as amended, § 16, c. 487, 32 Stat. 797, 800.
Ordinarily, where paper is indorsed without restriction
by a depositor and is at once placed to his credit by the
bank, the inference is that the bank has become the
purchaser of the paper and in making the collection is not
acting as the agent of the depositor. Douglas v. Federal
Reserve Bank, supra; Burton v. United States, supra;
In re Jarmulowsky, 249 Fed. 319, 321. But the court
below thought, and respondents argue here, that the form
of the check directing payment to be made to the bankrupts "for account of" the respondents operated to
make them agents to collect the paper. The point is
made that this is the effect of these or equivalent words
where the payee of negotiable paper indorses it "for

EQUITABLE TRUST CO. v. ROCHLING.
248

253

Opinion of the Court

account of" the indorser. It may be conceded that such
an indorsement injdicates that the transaction is not a
purchase and sale of the paper and, at least when not
otherwise explained or limited, may fairly be taken to
mean that the interest gained by the indorsee is that of
an agent for collection. White, v. National Bank, 102
U. S. 658; Evansville Bank v. German-American Bank,
155 U. S. 556; Commercial Bank of Penn. v. Armstrong,
148 U. S. 50, 57.
Here, however, the words were used not by a payee in
his indorsement, but by a third person making a deposit
for respondents' benefit. They are thus of much less significance than in the usual case as data in determining the
relation between respondents and the bankrupts, and the
course of conduct of the parties becomes correspondingly
more important. Moreover, the words themselves, despite their wide commercial use and the importance of
giving them, as far as practicable, a uniform effect, have
no rigid and unchangeable significance. Their purpose is
to express intention. They are not an incantation which
unfailingly invokes an agency. And the circumstances in
this case indicate that they were here used with a different
object.
The dominant purpose of the entire transaction, as far
as respondents were concerned, was to arrange that a
credit with the bankrupts should be available on June 15,
and this they accomplished as soon as the checks were delivered to the bankrupts. While we need not stress the
point, the added facts that respondents were international
bankers requiring the credit, in the course of their business, and that the credit was effected by the deposit of
cashier's checks, which pass among bankers as current
funds, are not without their significance. Nothing in the
previous course of dealing or in the actions of respondents
indicates that they intended or had any reason for intending that Knauth, Nachod & Kuhne should take the paper

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
. Syllabus.

275 U. S.

as their agents for collection, or that any restriction should
be placed on the use of the checks by Knauth, Nachod &
Kuhne once they had credited respondents.
Nor was there anything in the relationship to the transaction of the New York banks whose checks established
the credit to suggest any reason or purpose so to restrict
it. The duty of these banks was performed and their interest in the paper, apart from their liability to pay it,
ceased as soon as they had delivered it to the bankrupts.
But it was indispensable to the completion of the transaction that the bankrupts should be advised to what
account the checks were to be credited. And it was apparently the function of the words in question to tell
them. That alone, we think, was their purpose. To
assign them any other would be to ignore the course of
business followed here and banking usage in general, and
to give them a strained and unnatural construction. We
think the district court was right, and the judgment of the
court of appeals is
Reversed.
LATZKO ET AL. v. EQUITABLE TRUST COMPANY,
TRUSTEE.
EQUITABLE TRUST COMPANY, TRUSTEE, v.
LATZKO ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 48 and 49.

Argued October 19, 1927.-Decided November 21,
1927.

Claimants, who were bankers of Budapest, desiring to procure credit
with a New York banking firm (the bankrupts herein) with which
they had a checking account, procured to be deposited with it (1), a
cashier's check of a New York bank payable to the bankrupt's
order," favor" of claimants, and (2), a check of another New York
binker drawn on its account with the bankrupt and payable to the

