STEELE v. DRUMMOND.
192

Syllabus.

they lawfully arrested Birdsall. They had a right without a warrant contemporaneously to search the place in
order to find and seize the things used to carry on the
criminal enterprise. Agnello v. United States, supra,30;
Carroll v. United States, 267 U. S. 132, 158; Weeks v.
United States, supra., 392. The closet in which liquor
and the ledger were found was used as a part of the saloon.
And, if the ledger was not as essential to the maintenance
of the establishment as were bottles, liquors and glasses,
it was none the less a part of the outfit or equipment
actually used to commit the offense. And, while it was
not on Birdsall's person at the time of his arrest, it was
in his immediate possession and control. The authority

of officers to search and seize the things by which the
nuisance was being maintained, extended to all parts of
the premises used for the unlawful purpose. Cf. Sayers
v. United States, 2 F. (2d) 146; Kirvin v. United States,
supra; United States v. Kirschenblatt, supra. The bills
for gas, electric light, water and telephone services disclosed items of expense; they were convenient, if not in
fact necessary, for the keeping of the accounts; and, as
they were so closely related to the business, it is not unreasonable to consider them as used to carry it on. It
follows that the ledger and bills were lawfully seized as
an incident of the arrest.
Judgment affirmed.
STEELE, EXECUTOR, v. DRUMMOND.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 60.

Argued October 20, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.

1. Review by certiorari will be confined to the question on which the
petition for the writ was based. P. 203.
2. It is only because of the dominant public interest that one who has
had the benefit of performance by the other party, is permitted to

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioner.

275 U. S.

avoid his own contract obligation on the plea that the agreement
is illegal. It is a matter of great public concern that freedom of
contract be not lightly interfered with. P. 205.
3. Only in clear cases will contracts be held void as against public
policy. The principle must be cautiously applied to avoid confusion and injustice. P. 205.
4. Where nothing sinister or improper is done or contemplated
under the contract, detriment to the public interest will not be
presumed. P. 205.
5. A contract between S and D for construction of a railroad to
connect with an existing railroad and extend to a town where D
owned property, contained a promise by him to procure necessary
franchises and ordinances from that town, and a promise by S that
he would procure the company which was to own the new line and
the company owning the existing one to operate regular trains over
the two roads giving to the town above referred to the same service as that had by the one where they connected. D's purpose in
making and performing the contract was to enhance the value of
his property by the contemplated railroad facilities. S was a stockholder of the old company and took all the stock of the new one;
Held, that neither of the two stipulations was shown to be against
public policy. P. 206.
11 F. (2d) 595, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 271 U. S. 658, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which reversed a judgment of the District Court dismissing on demurrer an action brought by
Drummond to recover damages for breach of a contract
between him and Steele.
Jurisdiction of the District Court was founded on
diversity of citizenship.
Messrs. W. D. Thomson and Harold Hirsch were on
the brief for petitioner.
The contract was illegal and void in its inception, because Drummond undertook thereby to "procure" at all
events and regardless of the methods that might be necessary, the passage of certain ordinances. The contract
did not specify just how Drummond was to procure them,
but it did bind him at all events to procure them, and

STEELE v. DRUMMOND.
199

Argument for Respondent.

had he failed to do so, he would have breached the contract and been liable in damages, and would also have
failed to obtain the enhancement to his property holdings, which was the consideration moving him to act.
Agreements to procure legislation are contrary to public
policy and void. Providence Tool Co. v. Norris, 2 Wall.
45; Hazelton v. Sheckels, 202 U. S. 71; Crocker v. U. S.,
240 U. S. 74; Meguire v. Corwine, 101 U. S. 108.
The contract was illegal and void in its inception, because the obligation assumed by Steele to "procure," at
all events and regardless of the methods that might be
necessary, action on the part of public service corporations, of which he was a stockholder and officer, whether
such action was for the benefit of their stockholders or
merely to protect Steele from an action for damages on
his personal covenant, was contrary to public policy. In
order to comply with his contract and save himself from
personal liability, he might be tempted to use his vote
and official position to obtain corporate action of the railroad companies that was not to the best interest of their
stockholders. West v. Camden, 135 U. S. 507; Wardell
v. Union R. Co., 103 U. S. 651; Woodstock Iron Co. v.
Richmond, 129 U. S. 643.
If the contract was valid, Steele's personal liability terminated when he procured the installation of service by
the two railroad companies and when the newly chartered
railroad company in its corporate capacity accepted a
deed from Drummond, which deed contained a provision
under which the entire property reverted to Drummond
if service was discontinued.
Mr. John A. Sibley, with whom Mr. DanielMacDougald
was on the brief, for respondent.
The contract is not in violation of public policy. The
power to declare a commercial contract invalid because it
violates public policy should be sparingly exercised by

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Respondent.

275 U. S.

courts. The courts will presume that the contract is valid
and that no illegal means are contemplated unless there is
something in the contract that carries a -different conclusion. The only exception is in those contracts where the
general scheme is of a corrupt nature. Richardson v.
Mellish, 2 Bing. 229.
This Court fully recognized in the case of Valdes v.
Larrinaga,233 U. S. 705, that all contracts between parties
the purpose of which is to obtain a concession from the
Government or of a department thereof, are not invalid.
See Noble v. Meade-Morrison Mfg. Co., 237 Mass. 5;
C. C. Cole v. Brown-Hurley Hardware Co., 139 Ia. 487;
Burbank v. Jefferson City Gaslight Co. 35 La. Ann. 444;
Greene v. Nash, 85 Me. 148.
Since the rendition of the decision in the case of Tool
Company v. Norris, 2 Wall. 45, this Court has permitted
contracts to stand, which under the broad language of the
Norris case would have been struck down. See Nutt v.
Knut, 200 U. S. 12; and McGowan v. Parish,237 U. S. 285.
The contract was not illegal and void from its inception,
as contended. This is not a contract where an officer of a
corporation agrees in consideration of a benefit to him to
have the corporation of which he is an officer employ a
third party; nor is it a contract in which one who occupies
a fiduciary position, in consideration of a private benefit to
himself, assumes an inconsistent position towards another;
nor does it create a dual agency whereby an agent obtains
secret profits at the expense of the principal. In essence
it is an agreement by one person to protect the capital
investment of another, under certain contingencies.
These agreements are universally upheld by the courts.
Morgan v. Stuthers, 131 U. S. 246; Rogers et al. v. Burr,
Administratrix, 97 Ga. 10; Vinton v. Pratt,228 Mass. 468;
Cook on Corporations, 8 Ed. Vol. 2, pp. 1227, 1228, 1229.

STEELE v. DRUMMOND.
199

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent sued in the district court for the northern
district of Georgia to recover damages for breach 6f contract. A general demurrer was interposed and sustained.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that one count stated
a cause of action and reversed the judgment. The petition for certiorari was based on the contention that the
contract in suit was contrary to public policy and void.
No other question will be considered. Alice State Bank
v. Houston Pasture Co., 247 U. S. 240, 242; Webster Co.
v. Splitdorf Co., 264 U. S. 463, 464.
The material allegations are: Panama City and St.
Andrews are adjoining municipalities in Florida. These
were rival cities whose resources were timber lands and
fisheries awaiting development. A. B. Steele was a stockholder in the Atlanta and St. Andrews Bay Railway Company, which operated a railroad between Dothan, Alabama, and Panama City. He was interested in a lumber
company which was a large stockholder in the railway
company. Drummond owned much land in St. Andrews,
and some of it was on St. Andrews Bay. Steele desired
to extend the railway from Panama City to the bay.
Drummond was willing to coperate with him to that
end. His purpose was to enhance the value of his lands
by procuring railroad facilities for St. Andrews equal to
those at Panama City. Steele agreed to procure a charter for a railway company; to convey to it a right of way
within Panama City; to furnish all the iron and steel for
track material; to deliver the cross ties which were to be
furnished by Drummond; and to procure the proposed
company, in conjunction with the Atlanta & St. Andrews
Bay Railway Company, to operate regular trains over

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

the two roads from Dothan to St. Andrews, giving the
latter the same service as that had by Panama City.
Drummond agreed to obtain and convey to the new company a right of way within St. Andrews, "and to procure
necessary franchises and ordinances from the town of St.
Andrews"; to pay the cost of clearing and grading the
whole line, furnish and lay all ties, build necessary trestles
and culverts, lay the rails, and put in a wye; and to
cause a tract of terminal land fronting on St. Andrews
Bay to be conveyed to the new company. Steele procured the charter; organized a company and became
owner of all its stock. And, at his instance, Drummond
conveyed the completed railroad to the new company.
Steele caused the railway service to be furnished as agreed
until August, 1921, when operation ceased. Service at
Panama City continued. Except for the covenant in respect of service for St. Andrews, Drummond would not
have made the contract. This was known to Steele.
And it is alleged that to perform on his part, Drummond
expended $53,178.11; and that, by reason of Steele's failure to cause continuous service, Drummond's expenditures became a total loss.
Petitioner contends that the contract is illegal and void
because respondent's undertaking to procure the passage
of the ordinances was contrary to public policy. In Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, 16 How.
314, Mr. Justice Grier, delivering the opinion of the
Court, said (p. 334): "It is an undoubted principle of
the common law, that it will not lend its aid to enforce
a contract to do an act that is illegal; or which is inconsistent with sound morals or public policy; or which tends
to corrupt or contaminate, by improper influences, the
integrity of our social or political institutions. . .
Public policy and sound morality do therefore imperatively require that courts should put the stamp of their

STEELE v. DRUMMOND.
199

205

Opinion of the Court.

disapprobation on every act, and pronounce void every
contract the ultimate or probable tendency of which
would be to sully the purity or mislead the judgments
of those to whom the high trust of legislation is confided." And then, to make distinction between legitimate action and the contract condemned in that case, it
is said: "All persons whose interests may in any way be
affected by any public or private act of the legislature,
have an undoubted right to urge their claims and arguments, either in person or by counsel professing to act for
them, before legislative committees, as well as in courts
of justice." While the principle is readily understood,
its right application is often a matter of much delicacy.
It is only because of the dominant public interest that
one, who has had the benefit of performance by the other
party, is permitted to avoid his own obligation on the
plea that the agreement is illegal. And it is a matter of
great public concern that freedom of contract be not
lightly interfered with. Baltimore & Ohio Southwestern
Ry. v. Voigt, 176 U. S. 498, 505. The meaning of the
phrase "public policy" is vague and variable; there are
no fixed rules by which to determine what it is. It has
never been defined by the courts, but has been left loose
and free of definition, in the same manner as fraud.
1 Story on Contracts, (5th ed.) ยง 675. Pope Mfg. Company v. Gormully, 144 U. S. 224, 233. It is only in clear
cases that contracts will be held void. The principle
must be cautiously applied to guard against confusion
and injustice. Atlantic Coast Line R. R.'Co. v. Beazley,
54 Fla. 311, 387; Barrett v. Carden, 65 Vt. 431, 433;
Richmond v. Dubuque & Sioux City R. R. Co., 26 Ia. 191,
202; Egerton v. Earl Brownlow, 4 H. L. (as. 1, 122; Richardsn v. Mellish, 2 Bing. 229, 242, 252. Detriment to
the public interest will not be presumed where nothing
sinister or improper is done or contemplated. Valdes v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

Larrinaga,233 U. S. 705, 709. The contract here under
consideration is to be distinguished from those dealt with
in Tool Company v. Norris, 2 Wall. 45; Trist v. Child,
21 Wall. 441; Meguire v. Corwine, 101 U. S. 108; Oscanyan v. Arms Company, 103 U. S. 261; Hazelton v. Sheckells, 202 U. S. 71, and Crocker v. United States, 240 U. S.
74. The claims there considered were under contracts
requiring or contemplating the obtaining of legislative or
executive action as a matter of favor by means of personal influence, solicitation and the like, or by other
improper or corrupt means.
But this case is different. Drummond was not employed
by Steele or by the railroad company to secure the passage
of the ordinances. He was interested as an owner of
property. Neither the contract, nor what was done, suggests that the location or construction of the proposed
line was not a legitimate enterprise undertaken for the
public good, or that anything improper was contemplated
as a means to secure the passage of the ordinances.
Drummond's object was to obtain the railway service;
and, for that purpose, he expended a large sum. The
mere fact that he owned property that might be favorably affected does not tend to discredit him or to make
evil his undertaking to obtain the ordinances. His interest in having the railroad extended into St. Andrews gave
him the right in every legitimate way to urge the passage
of appropriate ordinances. There is nothing that tends
to indicate that in the promotion or passage of them there
was any departure from the best standards of duty to the
public. The contention that Drummond's agreement to
secure their passage was contrary to public policy cannot
be sustained. Cole v. Brown-Hurley Co., 139 Ia. 487;
Burbank v. Gas Company, 35 La. Ann. 444; Greene v.
Nash, 85 Me. 148. Cf. Houlton v. Nichol, 93 Wis. 393;
NQble v. Mead-Morrison Mfg. Co., 237 Mass 5, 21,

STIMSON LUMB'R. CO. v. KUYKENDALL.
199

207

Syllabus.

Petitioner also contends that the contract contravened
public policy and is void because Steele agreed to procure
the specified service to be given St. Andrews. The argument is that, in order to keep his covenant, he might be
tempted to use his vote to obtain corporate action of the
railroad companies that was not to the best interest of
their stockholders. But the contention has no foundation
of fact on which to rest. As shown above, it must be
clearly established that public policy would be violated
before Steele may raise that objection to prevent enforcement of the contract. The allegations do not indicate
that the carriers were not in duty bound to give equality
of service to these adjoining and competing towns; and,
for aught that appears, their interests would have been
served best by continuing operation over the new line.
It does not appear that the giving of the service would
have resulted to the disadvantage of either company or
its shareholders. Steele took all the stock of the new company; it does not appear that it ever had any other stockholders. The facts alleged fail to show that performance
would tend to constitute a fraud upon the old company
or its stockholders or tend in any degree to injure them.
It would be mere speculation to say that the transaction
described has any tendency to bring Steele's personal
interest into conflict with his duty as a voting shareholder.
Judgment affirmed.
WASHINGTON

EX REL.

STIMSON LUMBER COM-

PANY v. KUYKENDALL ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON

No. 66. Argued October 24, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.
1. Operators of towboats who hold themselves out as engaged in the
business of common carriers in the towing of logs in Puget Sound

