OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

275 U. S.

banks, in which there are private interests, are not departments of the Government. They are private corporations
in which the Government has an interest. Compare Bank
of the United States v. Planters'Bank, 9 Wheat. 904, 907.
The Fleet Corporation is entitled to the government rate,
not because it is an instrumentality of the Government,
but because it is a department of the United States within
the meaning of the Post Roads Act. In respect to messages sent, on the Government's business, no distinction
can properly be made between those of the Shipping Board
and those of the Fleet Corporation.
Reversed.
MISSOURI

PACIFIC

RAILROAD

COMPANY

v.

AEBY.
CERTIORARI TO TEE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 100. Argued December 1, 1927.-Decided January 3, 1928.
1. A station platform intended for use and used by a station agent
in the performance of his duties, is part of the "works" of the
railroad company within the meaning of the Federal Employers'
Liability Act, ยง 1. P. 428.
2. A case under the Act is governed by it and the applicable principles of common law as applied in federal courts; and there is no
liability in the absence of negligence on the part of the carrier.
P. 429.
3. A railway station platform, composed of loose gravel and crushed
stone, became worn and depressed in front of steps leading from
the station, due to rainwater falling from the roof and draining
from the platform and to the passage of people to and from the
waiting room. Water accumulated in the depression when it
rained, and on the night in question, a puddle, so formed, was
frozen and covered with snow. Plaintiff slipped on the ice while
seeking to enter the station house in the dark in pursuit of her
duties as station master, and was injured. Held that the facts
were insufficient to sustain a finding that the railroad company had
failed in any duty to the plaintiff. Id.
313 Mo. 492, reversed.

MISSOURI PAC. R. R. v. AEBY.
426

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI, 273 U. S. 679, to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri, which affirmed a recovery of
damages for personal ijuries in an action under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act.
Mr. Merritt U. Hayden, with whom Messrs. Edward J.
White, James F. Green and Thomas J. Cole were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Patrick H. Cullen, with whom Messrs. Thomas T.
Fauntleroy, Augustus L. Abbott, John B. Edwards, and
John C. Vogel were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner is a common carrier of interstate commerce
by railroad. Respondent was its station agent at Magness, Arkansas; and, January 13, 1921, while employed
in such commerce, fell on the station platform and was
injured. She brought this action in the Circuit Court of
Saint Louis, Missouri, claiming damages under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, U. S. C., Tit. 45, c. 2, ยง 51,
on the ground that her injuries resulted by reason of a
defect or insufficiency in the platform due to petitioner's
negligence. The jury returned a verdict, and the court
entered judgment thereon, in her favor. Petitioner took
the case to the Supreme Court and contended that the
platform was not a part of its "works'" within the meaning of the Act; that the evidence was not sufficient to
sustain a finding that petitioner was guilty of actionable
negligence; that respondent assumed the risk, and that her
own negligence was the sole cause of her injuries. That
court decided all these questions adversely to the petitioner and affirmed the judgment. 313 Mo. 492. Certiorari was granted, 273 U. S. 679.
The Act makes the carrier liable for injuries resulting to
its employees by reason of any defect or insufficiency due

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

to its negligence in "its cars, engines, appliances, machinery, track, roadbed, works, boats, wharves, or other equipment." The language is broad and includes things and
places furnished by the carriers to be used by their employees in the performance of their work. The platform
was intended to be and was used by respondent to do
station work. Having regard to the beneficent purposes
of the Act, it would be unreasonable to hold that when
so used a station platform is not covered by the word
"works" in the above quoted provision. The Supreme
Court rightly held that the clause applied.
Respondent had lived for years in that part of Arkansas. She was petitioner's ticket agent at Morefield from
March 20, 1919, until July 2, 1920; then she became the
station agent at Magness and remained in that position
until a few days after she was injured. She had charge of
the station; did book work; sold tickets; handled mail,
baggage, express, etc. She was the only person regularly
performing station work; and, for some time before the
accident, she lived in the station building. It was a onestory structure 16 feet wide by 48 feet long located south
of, parallel to and 10 feet from the track. The waiting
room occupied the west end, and adjoining it there was an
office having a bay window toward the track. The waiting room door, in front of which were two steps, was just
west of the bay window. The platform was made of
"chat," described as small gravel and crushed stone. It
was something like a cinder path. There were no gutters
on the eaves and water falling from the roof made a depression or kind of ditch. The chat was loose and sloped
towaxd the building, and some of the rain falling on the
platform, as well as the water from the roof, reached the
depression under the eaves and drained past the steps to
the west. The depression was about four inches deep;
and, by reason of the slope, its bottom was about 12 inches
lower than the highest part of the platform. The depres-

MISSOURI PAC. R. R. v. AEBY.
426

Opinion of the Court,

sion existed when respondent came to work at Magness,
and in front of the steps it was about four feet square.
That condition was caused by water and the passage of
people going to and from the waiting room. When it
rained, there accumulated in this and other depressions
on the platform puddles of water which gradually disappeared. By the time of the accident, the depression
in front of the steps had become somewhat larger and
deeper by reason of rains and constant use. Its surface
was rough. No ice had .formed there after respondent
came. The platform was dry the evening before the
accident. During the night it rained, froze and snowed.
Respondent and another woman slept in the station. A
train was due shortly after six in the morning. They got
up about six; it was dark; respondent lit a lamp and also
a lantern that was kept for use about the place. They
went out and moved the truck from the west end of the
building to a place near the track. The steps were covered with snow and ice. There was about three inches of
snow on the platform; the truck was frozen to the ground
and covered with ice. There was no light on the platform.
The lamp and lantern were left inside, and it does not
appear that either was placed to give light through the
bay-window or otherwise upon or about the steps or
platform. Going out, respondent stepped off the west
end of the steps. When returning to the waiting room,
she approached from the north. There was ice under
the snow immediately in front of the steps; she tripped on
something rough, slipped, fell and was injured.
This case is governed by the Act and the applicable
principles of common law as established and applied in
federal courts. There is no liability in the absence of
negligence on the part of the carrier. Seaboard Air Line
v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492, 501; New York Central R. R.
Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 147, 150. Its duty in respect of
the platform did not make petitioner an insurer of re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

spondent's safety; there was no guaranty that the place
would be absolutely safe. The measure of duty in such
cases is reasonable care having regard to the circumstances. Patton v. Texas & Pacific Railway Co., 179 U. S.
658, 664; Washington &c. Railroad Co. v. McDade, 135
U. S. 554, 570; Tuttle v. Milwaukee Railway, 122 U. S.
189, 194. The petitioner was not required to have any
particular type or kind of platform or to maintain it in
the safest and best possible condition. Baltimore & Ohio
R. R. Co. v. Groeger, 266 U. S. 521, 529. No employment
is free from danger. Fault or negligence on the part of
petitioner may not be inferred from the mere fact that respondent fell and was hurt. She knew that it had rained
and that the place was covered with ice and snow. Her
knowledge of the situation and of whatever danger existed
was at least equal to that chargeable against the petitioner. Petitioner was not required to give her warning.
National Biscuit Co. v. Nolan, 138 Fed. 6, 12. It is a
matter of common knowledge that almost everywhere
there are to be found in public ways and on private
grounds numerous places in general use by pedestrians
that in similar weather are not materially unlike the place
where respondent fell. Under the circumstances, it cannot reasonably be held that failure of petitioner to remove
the snow and ice violated any duty owed to her. The
obligation in respect of station platforms and the like
owed by carriers to their passengers or to others coming
upon their premises for the transaction of business is
greater than that due their employees accustomed to work
thereon. The reason is that the latter, familiar with the
situation, are deemed voluntarily to take the risk of
known conditions and dangers. Tuttle v. Milwaukee
Railway, 122 U. S. 194. The facts of this case, when
taken most favorably to the respondent, are not sufficient
to sustain a finding that petitioner failed in any duty owed

TAYLOR CO. v. ANDERSON.
426

Syllabus.

to her. Nelson v. Southern Ry. Co., 246 U. S. 253. As
negligence on the part of the petitioner is essential, we
need not consider its contentions in respect of assumption
of risk and negligence on the part of respondent.
Judgment reversed.

N. & G. TAYLOR COMPANY, INC., v. ANDERSON
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 114.

Argued December 5, 1927.-Decided January 3, 1928.

1. Section 18 of the Illinois Practice Act, allowing the assignee of a
non-negotiable contract to sue on it in his own name and requiring
him to show on oath his ownership and source of title, will be
applied by the federal courts sitting in that State. P. 437.
2. By the law of Illinois, as established by the State Supreme Court,
a declaration under ยง 18 supra that does not make the required
showing as to ownership and source of title, fails to state a cause
of action; and a cause of action set forth in a declaration amended
to comply with the section is barred if the period fixed by the
statute of limitations has expired when the amended declaration
is filed. P. 437.
3. Section 954 of the Revised Statutes governing amendments in the
federal courts, is to be liberally construed. P. 438.
4. Where the filing of an amended declaration has been allowed
under ยง 954, the question whether the declaration states a new
cause of action barred by the statute of limitations, depends upon
the substance of the change made by the amendmefit. P. 438.
5. A partnership made a contract to purchase oil and vendors
defaulted. The members of the partnership formed a corporation, named as the partnership was with the word "Incorporated" added, which took over the firm's assets and liabilities,
including the contract, and carried on the business. The corporation sued on the contract in the federal court sitting in Illinois,
describing it as one made with the corporation directly, without
mention of the partnership, and later, when the period of the

