INGRAM-DAY CO. v. McLOUTH.
Counsel for Parties.

INGRAM-DAY LUMBER COMPANY v. McLOUTH.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 126.

Argued December 6, 7, 1927.-Decided January 3, 1928.

1. Plaintiff contracted to furnish defendant a specified quantity of

lumber, knowing that it was to be used by defendant in building
boats but not that they were being built under a contract between
the defendant and the Fleet Corporation. Afterwards, the Fleet
Corporation, acting under Executive Orders and the Act of June 15,
1917, cancelled its contract, notifying defendant to make no further commitments or expenditures, and defendant, without acting
or purporting to act under authority of the Corporation, stopped
deliveries of lumber by the plaintiff. Held:
(1) That the damages recoverable by the plaintiff from the defendant, were not measured as where "just compensation" is
claimed from the United States under the statute for cancellation
of the government's own contracts, but included anticipated profits.
P. 473.
(2) Plaintiff's rights under its own contract were not dependent
on the continued existence of defendant's contract with the Fleet
Corporation. P. 474.
2. Appellate review in this case, where a jury was waived in writing,
held limited to the sufficiency of the facts specially found to support the judgment and to rulings excepted to and presented by bill
of exceptions. P. 474.
13 F. (2d) 581, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 273 U. S. 684, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment, 6 F. (2d)
471, not including anticipated profits, recovered by the
petitioner in an action brought against McLouth and
revived against his administrator.
Mr. Wm. J. Shaw, with whom Messrs. W. A. White,

Sidney T. Miller, George L. Canfield, and FerrisD. Stone
were on the brief, for petitioner.

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the 'Court.

275 U. S.

Mr. Gardner P. Lloyd, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell,
Mr. Chauncey G. Parker,General Counsel, U. S. Shipping
Board, and Mr. I. V. McPherson, Assistant Counsel,
U. S. Shipping Board, were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

Petitioner sued in the district court for eastern Michigan for the decedent's breach of contract to purchase a
quantity of lumber. The defense relied on was that the
lumber was to be used by the intestate in the performance of contracts he had made with the United States
Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation for the construction of a number of ocean-going tugboats; that acting under the President's Executive Orders of July 11,
1917, and December 3, 1918, and the Emergency Shipping
Fund provisions of the Urgent Deficiencies Appropriation
Act of June 15, 1917, c. 29, 40 Stat. 182, 183, the Fleet
Corporation in 1919, before delivery of all the lumber,
had cancelled the contract with decedent for building the
tugs and directed him "to make no further commitments
or expenditures "; and that this action or the decedent's
subsequent order to'petitioner to stop delivery of the
lumber, or both, amounted to a cancellation of petitioner's
contract also.
By written stipulation a jury was waived and the case
was tried to the court, which made special findings, among
others, that petitioner, at the time of entering into its
contract with decedent, knew that the lumber was to be
furnished for the building of tugs, but did not know that
decedent was building the tugs for the Fleet Corporation.
The court also found that decedent had stopped deliveries
of the lumber but there is no finding that this was done
or purported to be done under the authority of the Fleet

INGRAM-DAY CO. v. McLOUTH.
471

Opinion of the Court.

Corporation. It was found that petitioner's damage was
$647.65, the difference between the contract price of the
lumber ready for delivery when the decedent ordered performance stopped and its market price when recut into
saleable lengths, but that if the ordinary rule of damages
should be applied petitioner's loss of bargain on the whole
contract would bring its damages up to $42,789.96. The
court gave judgment for the smaller amount, 6 Fed. (2d)
471, and this was affirmed by the court of appeals for the
sixth circuit, 13 Fed. (2d) 581. This Court granted certiorari. 273 U. S. 684.
The Urgent Deficiencies Appropriation Act of 1917 authorized the President "(b) To modify, suspend, cancel
or requisition any existing or future contract for the building, production or purchase of ships or material." It
provided that the United States "shall make just compensation" for any contracts cancelled or requisitioned,
and authorized the President to delegate the powers conferred upon him. His powers, so far as material here,
were delegated to the Fleet Corporation by Executive
Orders of July 11, 1917, and December 3, 1918. The
statute authorized the cancellation of the government's
own contracts, made after its enactment, and just compensation for such cancellation does not include anticipated profits, ordinarily recoverable in an action of assumpsit. Duesenberg Motors Corp. v. United States, 260
U. S. 115; Russell Motor Car Co. v. United States, 261
U. S. 514. It authorized also the expropriation or requisition of private contracts, and in computing the just compensation for these, the value of the anticipated performance of the contract may be considered. BrooksScanlon Corp. v. United States, 265 U. S. 106, 125.
The court below ruled that the petitioner's contract was
cancelled by the action of the Shipping Board but upheld

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

the judgment for $647.65 in favor of petitioner. Although the suit was for breach of contract against a private person and not against the government, the court
purported to apply the rule of "just compensation,"
which by the statute is made the limit of the government's
liability, and denied a recovery for anticipated profits on
the supposed authority of Duesenberg Motor Corp. v.
United States, supra.
The question principally argued here was whether there
was power in the Fleet Corporation to cancel the petitioner's contract. No such question is presented by the
record. There is no finding that in fact the petitioner's
contract was either modified, suspended, cancelled or
requisitioned, nor does the record disclose evidence which
would support such a finding. Since a jury was waived
in writing, appellate review is limited to the sufficiency of
the facts specially found to support the judgment and to
rulings excepted to and presented by a bill of exceptions.
Rev. Stat. ยง ยง 649, 700; Lewellyn v. Electric Reduction
Co., ante, p. 243; Fleischmann Co. v. United States, 270
U. S. 349; Tyre & Springs Works Co. v. Spalding, 116
U. S. 541; Boogher v. Insurance Co., 103 U. S. 90. The
special findings already stated establish the right of petitioner to recover damages for breach of contract, including
compensation for loss of bargain, in the sum of $42,789.96.
As petitioner's contract was framed without reference
to or knowledge of decedent's contract with the Fleet Corporation, its rights under its own contract were not dependent on the continued existence of the other. Guerini
Stone Co. v. Carlin,240 U. S. 264.
The judgments of the district court and of the circuit
court of appeals are accordingly reversed and set aside and
the judgment of this Court will be for the petitioner in
the amount stated, with costs.
Reversed.

