OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

matters. The decision that no jurisdiction remains comes
from this Court, and it is proper that it should carry out
its decision without unnecessary circuity by directing it to
be enforced.
Decree reversed.
Bill to be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY v.
SOUTHWELL, ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI

No. 41.

TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA.

STATE OF

Argued October 18, 1927.-Decided October 31, 1927.

Assuming that a railroad company could be held liable under the
Federal Employers Liability Act for the wilful killing of one of its
employees by another, if it resulted from the negligent failure of
their superior officer to foresee the danger and prevent it, the
charge of such negligence is not borne out by the evidence in this
case. P. 65.
191 N. C. 153, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

271 U. S. 654, to a judgment of the

Supreme Court of North Carolina sustaining a recovery
by the widow and administratrix of a deceased employee
from the Railroad in an action based on the Federal
Employers Liability Act.

Mr. Thomas W. Davis, with whom Messrs. J. 0. Carr
and V. E. Phelps were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. Bayard Clark, with whom Messrs. Robert H.
Dye, L. Clayton Grant,and C. D. Weeks were on the brief,
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an action brought against the petitioner by the
administratrix and widow of one of the petitioner's em-

ATL. COAST LINE R. R. v. SOUTHWELL.
64

65

Opinion of the Court.

ployees, for the death of her husband by a murder which
it is alleged that the petitioner "with gross negligence wilfully and wantonly caused, permitted and allowed." In
view of the decision in Davis v. Green, 260 U. S. 349, the
plaintiff did not attempt to hold the petitioner liable as
principal in the act, but relied upon its failure to prevent
the death. The Supreme Court of North Carolina upheld
a judgment for the plaintiff. 191 N. C. 153. It is admitted that the action is based upon the Federal Employers
Liability Act of April 22, 1908, c. 149, ยง 2; 35 Stat. 65, and
the question is whether there was any evidence that the
death resulted in whole or in part from the negligence of
any officer of the petitioning road, under the law as applied by this Court. New Orleans & Northeastern R. R.
Co. v. Harris,247 U. S. 367, 371.
It would be straining the language of the act somewhat
to say in any case that a wilful homicide "resulted" from
the failure of some superior officer to foresee the danger
and to prevent it. In this case at all events we are of
opinion that there was no evidence that warrants such a
judgment. It is not necessary to state the facts in detail.
Those mainly relied upon are that Fonvielle, the general
yard master, knew that Southwell, the man who was killed,
on previous occasions had used threatening language to
Dallas, who shot Southwell; that Fonvielle knew or ought
to have known that they were likely to meet when they
did; that Fonvielle was with Dallas, his subordinate, just
before that moment and that Dallas said to him " Cap,
all I want to do is to ask Southwell to lay off of me and
let me alone," and that Fonville said that he must not
see Southwell, that if he saw him and talked to him it
might bring about unpleasant consequences; that. Fonvielle left Dallas and after having gone a short distance
saw him and Southwell approaching each other and had
taken a few steps towards them with a. view to separate
them in case of an altercation, but that before he had
83583'-28-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Statement of the Case.

275 U. S.

time to reach them the shot was fired. Fonvielle knew
that Dallas had a pistol, but there was a strike at the time;
Dallas was a special policeman and had a right to carry it,
and not unnaturally did. The only sinister designs, of
which there is any evidence, were of Southwell against
Dallas, unless Dallas' remark just before the shooting be
taken to foreshadow the event, which it certainly did not
seem to until after the event had happened. It appears
to us extravagant to hold the petitioner liable in a case
like this. See St. Louis-San Francisco Ry. Co. v. Mills,
271 U. S. 344.
Judgment reversed.
BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY v.
GOODMAN, ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 58. Argued October 20, 1927.-Decided October 31, 1927.
1. One who drives upon a railroad track relying upon not having heard
a train or any signal and taking no further precaution, does so at
his own risk. If he can not otherwise be sure whether a train is
dangerously near, the driver must stop and get out of his vehicle
before attempting to cross. P. 69.
2. In an action for negligence the question of due care is not left to
the jury when resolved by a clear standard of conduct which should
be laid down by the courts. P. 70.
10 F. (2d) 58, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 271 U. S. 658, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals sustaining a recovery for death caused
by alleged negligence of the Railroad, in an action by the
widow and administratrix of the deceased. The action
was removed from an Ohio state court on the ground of
diversity of citizenship.

