OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

275 U. S.

known general rule against injunctions. It does not leave
the taxpayer without power to resist an unlawful tax,
whatever-the difficulties in the way of resisting it.
The sequence of the clause in the amendment after
others giving authority to grant writs of habeas corpus
and mandamus shows that it puts a limit to the power of
the Court. See Dodge v. Osborn, 240 U. S. 118, 119.
That is a question of construction and common sense.
Fauntleroy v. Lum, 210 U. S. 230, 235. Therefore when
the District Court required a deposit in the registry of a
sum to secure payment of the tax in dispute, the money
should be returned as there is no jurisdiction to dispose
of it otherwise.
Of course it does not matter that these cases had gone
to a higher Court. When the root is cut the branches fall.
McNulty v. Batty, 10 How. 72.
As the bills were dismissed upon the merits (with partial injunctions in Valdes v. Gallardo and Finlay, Waymouth & Lee, Inc. v. Gallardo) the decrees should be
reversed and the cases sent back with directions to dismiss
for want of jurisdiction.
Decrees reversed and bills ordered to be dismissed.
Money deposited in Court for payment of
taxes in case of adverse decision to be returned.
GALLARDO v. SANTINI FERTILIZER COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR
PORTO RICO, TRANSFERRED FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE FIRST CIRCUIT UNDER THE ACT OF SEPTEMBER 14, 1922.

No. 164.

Argued October 5, 1927.-Decided October 24, 1927.

1. In a case transferred here by the Circuit Court of Appeals in which
this Court finds that the trial court lacked jurisdiction, direction for
dismissal of the suit on that ground is made -without determining

whether the transfer was erroneous. P. 63.

0

GALLARDO v. SANTINI CO.
62

Opinion of the Court.

2. The jurisdiction of the United States District Court for Porto
Rico over pending suits to enjoin taxes was destroyed by the Act
of March 4, 1927. See Smallwood v. Gallardo, ante, p. 56. P. 63.
Reversed.

ON transfer from the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
First Circuit of a cause appealed from the United States
District Court for Porto Rico.
Mr. William CattronRigby, with whom Mr. George C.
Butte, Attorney General of Porto Rico, was on the brief,
for appellant.
Mr. Nelson Gammans for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a bill in equity brought in the District Court of
Porto Rico to restrain the collection of taxes imposed by
the laws of Porto Rico. An injunction was issued by the
District Court, on March 31, 1925. On April 7, 1925, an
appeal was allowed to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the First Circuit. That Court at first made a decree
reversing the decree of the District Court, but later, on
December 18, 1926, set that decree aside and transferred
the case to this Court, under the Act of September 14,
1922, c. 305; 42 Stat. 837, conceiving that the jurisdiction
of the District Court was invoked solely upon the ground
that the controversy involved the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States. On
March 4, 1927, the Act of Congress was passed that took
away the jurisdiction of the District Court in this class of
cases, as explained in Smallwood v. Gallardo,ante, p. 56.
The case has been argued -upon the merits and also
upon a motion to remand it to the Circuit Court of
Appeals on the ground that the appeal properly was taken
to that Court. As the only jurisdiction remaining anywhere is to make an order requiring the case to be dismissed for want of jurisdiction we need not discuss these

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

matters. The decision that no jurisdiction remains comes
from this Court, and it is proper that it should carry out
its decision without unnecessary circuity by directing it to
be enforced.
Decree reversed.
Bill to be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY v.
SOUTHWELL, ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI

No. 41.

TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA.

STATE OF

Argued October 18, 1927.-Decided October 31, 1927.

Assuming that a railroad company could be held liable under the
Federal Employers Liability Act for the wilful killing of one of its
employees by another, if it resulted from the negligent failure of
their superior officer to foresee the danger and prevent it, the
charge of such negligence is not borne out by the evidence in this
case. P. 65.
191 N. C. 153, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

271 U. S. 654, to a judgment of the

Supreme Court of North Carolina sustaining a recovery
by the widow and administratrix of a deceased employee
from the Railroad in an action based on the Federal
Employers Liability Act.

Mr. Thomas W. Davis, with whom Messrs. J. 0. Carr
and V. E. Phelps were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. Bayard Clark, with whom Messrs. Robert H.
Dye, L. Clayton Grant,and C. D. Weeks were on the brief,
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an action brought against the petitioner by the
administratrix and widow of one of the petitioner's em-

