GULF, C. & S. F. RY. v. MOSER.

i3a

Opinion of the Court.

GULF, COLORADO & SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY v. MOSER, ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, THIRD SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT, STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 53.

Submitted October 19, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.

1. In computing the damages recoverable under the Federal Employers' Liability Act by a dependant who has been deprived of future
benefits through the death of a railroad employee, the principle
of limiting the recovery to compensation requires that adequate
allowance be made, according to circumstances, for the earning
power of money; in short, that when future payments or other
pecuniary benefits are to be anticipated, the verdict should be
made up on the basis of their present value only. P. 136.
2. This interpretation, heretofore approved by this Court, has become
an integral part of the statute, and should be followed in the state
courts. P. 136.
3. Refusal of a request for an instruction to the jury on the reduction
of such future benefits to present value by deduction of interest at
the highest rate that the testimony showed could be had on money
safely invested and secured,-held erroneous. P. 135.
277 S. W. 722, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

271 U. S. 655, to a judgment of the Court

of Civil Appeals of Texas sustaining a recovery of damages in an action under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act. The Supreme Court of Texas refused a writ of
error for want of jurisdiction, 277 S. W. 722.
Messrs. Lawrence H. Cake, J. W. Terry, and Charles
K. Lee for petitioner.
Mr. A. L. Curtis for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Mrs. Moser, administratrix of her husband's estate,
brought suit under the Federal Employers' Liability Act

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

(c. 149, 35 Stat. 65; c. 143, 36 Stat. 291) to recover
damages consequent upon his death while employed by
petitioner as a brakeman. The point for consideration is
whether the trial court charged the jury concerning estimation of damages according to the-rule approved by this
Court.
The cause went to the jury upon special issues framed
as questions. Answers thereto constitute the verdict.
Relevant parts of Special Issue No. 7 follow"Regardless of what your answers may be to the quest-ions submitted in this charge, you will assess damages,
and you will arrive at the amount thereof by assessing
the same at such sum of money as if paid in cash at this
time would be sufficient to fairly compensate the surviving wife and child for such actual pecuniary loss as you
may believe from the evidence that they had a reasonable
expectation of receiving from said John H. Moser, if any,
from and after the death of the said John H. Moser, if he
had not died on the date alleged. By pecuniary loss is
meant such loss as may be compensated for in money.
In answering special issue No. 7, you will take into consideration the contribution of money and other pecuniary
benefits, if any, which the evidence may show that said
surviving wife and child would have received from him
after the time of his death, if he had continued to live;
In assessing the damages, if any, you will confine
yourselves solely to the determination of the pecuniary
and monetary interest, if any, that the plaintiff and her
child had in the continued life of deceased. .
"Bearing in mind the foregoing definitions and instructions on the measure of damages, you will answer special
issue No. seven.
"What amount of money, if paid now, will fairly and
reasonably compensate the surviving widow and child of
the deceased, John H. Moser, for the actual pecuniary
loss which they respectively suffered by reason of his

GULF, C. & S. F. RY. v. MOSER.
133

135

Opinion of the Court.

death, if any? This question you will answer by stating
the aggregate amount of such pecuniary loss or damage,
and you will answer in the space below the amount you
find from the evidence."
Petitioner seasonably objected to the charge as "generally too broad and not definite and specific enough and
the jury should be limited in their consideration of- the
measure of damages, and the damages to be awarded, and
should be further and more in detail instructed as to
matters they can consider and the way their verdict
should be arrived at more fully shown and in line with
defendant's requested charges on the issue of damages."
Also to Special Issue No. 7 because "it does not give the
jury any rule or formula by which the jury may determine the amount of money that if paid now will fairly
and reasonably compensate the surviving widow and
child for the actual pecuniary loss." And it requested
the following special instruction.
"In considering of your verdict on the question of
damages, and under the special issues submitted to you
in that connection, and thereunder in determining 'such
sum of money as if paid in cash at this time would be
sufficient to fairly compensate the surviving wife and
child,' for their pecuniary loss, you are instructed that in
determining the present value of such contributions as
plaintiff would probably have received from the continued life of the deceased you will make your calculations on the basis of the amount of your award, bearing
interest at the highest net rate of interest that the testimony shows can be had on money safely invested, and
secured as shown by the testimony in this case."
This action sufficed to raise the point now presented.
Refusal to grant the request was material error.
Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company v. Kelly, 241
U. S. 485, 491, and Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company
v. Gainey, 241 U. S. 494, announce the applicable rule.

OCTOBER TERM, 192.
Statement of the Case.

275 U. S.

In the first, we distinctly stated that "in computing the
damages recoverable for the deprivation of future benefits, the principle of limiting the recovery to compensation requires that adequate allowance be made, according
to circumstances, for the earning power of money; in
short, that when future payments or other pecuniary
benefits are to be anticipated, the verdict should be made
upon the basis of their present value only." The interpretation approved by us has become an integral part of
the statute. It should be accepted and followed.
The judgment below is reversed; and the cause will be
remanded to the Court of Civil Appeals, Third Supreme
Judicial District, State of Texas, for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY v. WISCONSIN.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.

Nos. 75, 76. Argued October 27, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.
A state tax on domestic insurance companies, called an annual license
fee, which consists of three per cent. annually of the gross income
of the corporation, save rents from land otherwise taxed and premiums, is void pro tanto where the income is in part interest from
United States bonds. P. 140.
189 Wis. 103, 114 reversed.
ERROR to the judgments of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, in two cases, sustaining taxes on the gross income
of the Insurance Company. The Company sued in the
state circuit court to recover portions of the taxes paid,
upon the ground that, pro tanto, the tax fell on-the income
from United States bonds. Judgments of the circuit

