78

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

275 U. S.

GONG LUM ET AL. V. RICE ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 29.

Submitted October 12, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.

A child of Chinese blood, born in, and a citizen of, the United States,
is not denied the equal protection of the laws by being classed by
the State among the colored races who are assigned to public schools
separate from those provided for the whites, when equal facilities
for education are afforded to both classes. P. 85.
139 Miss. 760, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Mississippi, reversing a judgment awarding the writ of mandamus. The writ was applied for in the interest of
Martha Lum, a child of Chinese blood, born in the United
States, and was directed to the trustees of a high school
district and the State Superintendant of Education, commanding them to cease discriminating against her and to
admit her to the privileges of the high school specified,
which was assigned to white children exclusively.
Messrs. J. N. Flowers, Earl Brewer, and Edward C.
Brewer for plaintiff in error.
The white, or Caucasian, race, which makes the laws
and construes and enforces them, thinks that in order to
protect itself against the infusion of the blood of other
races its children must be kept in schools from which
other races are excluded. The classification is made for
the exclusive benefit of the law-making race. The basic
assumption is that if the children of two races associate
daily in the school room the two races will at last intermix; that the purity of each is jeopardized by the mingling
of the children in the school room; that such association
among children means social intercourse and social
equality. This danger, the white race, by its laws, seeks
to divert from itself, It levies the taxes on all alike to

GONG LUM v. RICE.
78

.79

Opinion of the Court.

support a public school system, but in the organization of
the system it creates its own exclusive schools for its children, and other schools for the children of all other races
to attend together.
If there is danger in the association, it is a danger from
which one race is entitled to protection just the same as
another. The white race may not legally expose the
yellow race to a danger that the dominant race recognizes and, by the same laws, guards itself against. The
white race creates for itself a privilege that it denies to
other races; exposes the children of other races to risks and
dangers to which it would not expose its own children.
This is discrimination. Lehew v. Brummell, 103 Mo. 549;
Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303.
Color may reasonably be used as a basis for classification only in so far as it indicates a particular race. Race
may reasonably be used as a basis. "Colored" describes
only one race, and that is the negro. State v. Treadway,
126 La. 52; Lehew v. Brummell, supra; Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537; Berea College v. Kentucky, 133 Ky.
209; West Chester R. R. v. Miles, 55 Pa. St. 209; Tucker
v. Blease, 97 S. C. 303.
Messrs. Rush H. Knox, Attorney General of Mississippi, and E. C. Sharp for defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This was a petition for mandamus filed in the state
Circuit Court of Mississippi for the First Judicial District
of Bolivar County.
Gong Lum is a resident of Mississippi, resides in the
Rosedale Consolidated High School District, and is the
father of Martha Lum. He is engaged in the mercantile
business. Neither he nor she was connected with the con,
sular service or any other service of the government of
China, or any other government, at the tirme of her birth,

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

She was nine years old when the petition was filed, having
been born January 21, 1915, and'she sued by her next
friend, Chew How, who is a native born citizen of the
United States and the State of Mississippi. The petition
alleged that she was of good moral character and between
the ages of five and twenty-one years, and that, as she
was such a citizen and an educable child, it became her
father's duty under the law to send her to school; that
she desired to attend the Rosedale Consolidated High
School; that at the opening of the school she appeared as
a pupil, but at the noon recess she was notified by the
superintendent that she would not be allowed to return
to the school; that an order had been issued by the Board
of Trustees, who are made defendants, excluding her from
attending the school solely on the ground that she was of
Chinese descent and not a member of the white or Caucasian race, and that their order had been made in pursuance
to instructions from the State Superintendent of Education of Mississippi, who is also made a defendant.
The petitioners further show that there is no school
maintained in the District for the education of children of
Chinese descent, and none established in Bolivar County
where she could attend.
The Constitution of Mississippi requires that there shall
be a county common school fund, made up of poll taxes
from the various counties, to be retained in the counties
where the same is collected, and a state common school
fund to be taken from the general fund in the state
treasury, which together shall be sufficient to maintain a
common school for a term of four months in each scholastic year, but that any county or separate school district
may levy an additional tax to maintain schools for a
longer time than a term of four months, and that the said
common school fund shall be distributed among the several counties and separate school districts in proportion to
the number of educable children in each, to be collected

GONG LUM v. RICE.
Opinion of the Court.

78

from the data in the office of the State Superintendent of
Education in the manner prescribed by law; that the
legislature encourage by all suitable means the promotion
of intellectual, scientific, moral and agricultural improvement, by the establishment of a uniform system of free
public schools by taxation or otherwise, for all children
between the ages of five and twenty-one years, and, as
soon as practicable, establish schools of higher grade.
The petition alleged that, in obedience to this mandate
of the Constitution, the legislature has provided for the
establishment and for the payment of the expenses of the
Rosedale Consolidated High School, and that the plaintiff,
Gong Lum, the petitioner's father, is a taxpayer and helps
to support and maintain the school; that Martha Lum is
an educable child, is entitled to attend the school as a
pupil, and that this is the only school conducted in the
District available for her as a pupil; that the right to
attend it is a valuable right; that she is not a member of
the colored race nor is she of mixed blood, but that she is
pure Chinese; that she is by the action of the Board of
Trustees and the State Superintendent discriminated
against directly and denied her right to be a member of
the Rosedale School; that the school authorities have no
discretion under the law as to her admission'as a pupil in
the school, but that they continue without authority of
law to deny her the right to attend it as a pupil. For
these reasons the writ of mandamus is prayed for against
the defendants commanding them and each of them to
desist from discriminating against her on account of her
.race or ancestry and to give her the same rights and privileges that other educable children between the ages of five
and twenty-one are granted in the Rosedale Consolidated
High School.
The petition was demurred to by the defendants on the
ground, among others, that the bill showed on its face that
plaintiff is a member of the Mongolian or yellow race, and
83583 -28----6

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

therefore not entitled to attend the schools provided by
law in the State of Mississippi for children of the white or
Caucasian race.
The trial court overruled the demurrer and ordered that
a writ of mandamus issue to the defendants as prayed in
the petition.
The defendants then appealed to the Supreme Court of
Mississippi, which heard the case. Rice v. Gong Lum, 139
Miss. 760. In its opinion, it directed its attention to the
proper construction of § 207 of the State Constitution of
o
1890, which provides:
"Separate schools shall be maintained for children of
the white and colored races."
The Court held that this provision of the Constitution
divided the educable children into those of the pure white
or Caucasian race, on the one hand, and the brown, yellow
and black races, on the other, and therefore that Martha
Lum of the Mongolian or yellow race could not insist on
being classed with the whites under this constitutional
division. The Court said:
"The legislature is not compelled to provide separate
schools for each of the colored races, and, unless and until
it does provide such schools and provide for segregation
of the other races, such races are entitled to have the
benefit of the colored public schools. Under our statutes
a colored public school exists in every county and in some
convenient district in which every colored child is entitled
to obtain an education. These schools are within the
reach of all the children of the state, and the plaintiff does
not show by her petition that she applied for admission
to such schools. On the contrary the petitioner takes the
position that because there are no separate public schools
for Mongolians that she is entitled to enter the white
public schools in preference to the colored public schools.
A consolidated school in this state is simply a common
school conducted as other common schools are conducted;

GONG LUM v. RICE.
78

Opinion of the Court.

the only distinction being that two or more school districts
have been consolidated into one school. Such consolidation is entirely discretionary with the county school board
having reference to the condition existing in the particular territory. Where a school district has an unusual
amount of territory, with an unusual valuation of property therein, it may levy additional taxes. But the other
common schools under similar statutes have the same
power.
"If the plaintiff desires, she may attend the colored
public schools of her district, or, if she does not so desire,
she may go to a private school. The compulsory school
law of this state does not require the attendance at a
public school, and a parent under the decisions of the
Supreme Court of the United States has a right to educate
his child in a private school if he so desires. But plaintiff
is not entitled to attend a white public school."
As we have seen, the plaintiffs aver that the Rosedale
Consolidatd High School is the only school conducted in
that district available for Martha Lum as a pupil. They
also aver that there is no school maintained in the district
of Bolivar County for the education of Chinese children
and none in the county. How are these averments to be
reconciled with the statement of the State Supreme Court
that colored schools are maintained in every county by
virtue of the Constitution? This seems to be explained,
in the language of the State Supreme Court, as follows:
"By statute it is provided that all the territory of each
county of the state shall be divided into school districts
separately for the white and colored races; that is to say,
the whole territory is to be divided into white school districts, and then a new division of the county for colored
school districts. In other words, the statutory scheme is
to make the districts outside of the separate school districts, districts for the particular race, white or colored,
so that the territorial limits of the school districts need

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

not be the same, but the territory embraced in a school
district for the colored race may not be the same territory
embraced in the school district for the white race, and vice
versa, which system of creating the common school districts for the two races, white and colored, does not require
schools for each race as such to be maintained in each district, but each child, no matter from what territory, is
assigned to some school district, the school buildings being
separately located and separately controlled, but each
having the same curriculum, and each having the same
number of months of school term, if the attendance is
maintained for the said statutory period, which school
district of the common or public schools has certain privileges, among which is to maintain a public school by local
taxation for a longer period of time than the said term of
four months under named conditions which apply alike to
the common schools for the white and colored races."
We must assume then that there are school districts for
colored children in Bolivar County, but that -no colored
school is within the limits of the Rosedale Consolidated
High School District. This is not inconsistent with there
being, at a place outside of that district and in a different
district, a colored school which the plaintiff Martha Lum,
may conveniently attend. If so, she is not denied, under
the existing school system, the right to attend and enjoy
the privileges of a common school education in a colored
school. If it were otherwise, the petition should have
contained an allegation showing it. Had the petition
alleged specifically that there was no colored school in
Martha Lum's neighborhood to which she could conveniently go, a different question would have been presented, and this, without regard to the State Supreme
Court's construction of the State Constitution as limiting
the white schools provided for the education of children
of the white or Caucasian race. But we do not find the
petition to present such a situation.

GONG LUM v. RICE.
78

Opinion of the Court.

The case then reduces itself to the question whether a
state can be said to afford to a child of Chinese ancestry
born in this country, and a citizen of the United States,
equal protection of the laws by giving her the opportunity
for a common school education in a school which receives only colored children of the brown, yellow or black
races.
The right and power of the state to regulate the method
of providing for the education of its youth at public expense is clear. In Cumming v. Richmond County Board
of Education, 175 U. S. 528, 545, persons of color sued
the Board of Education to enjoin it from maintaining a
high school for white children without providing a similar
school for colored children which had existed and had
been discontinued. Mr. Justice Harlan, in delivering the
opinion of the Court, said:
"Under the circumstances disclosed, we cannot say that
this action of the state court was, within the meaning of
the Fourteenth Amendment, a denial by the State to the
plaintiffs and to those associated with them of the equal
protection of the' laws, or of any privileges belonging to
them as citizens of the United States. We may add that
while all admit that the benefits and burdens of public
taxation must be shared by citizens without discrimination against any class on account of their race, the education of the people in schools maintained by state taxation is a matter belonging to the respective States, and
any interference on the part of Federal authority with
the management of such schools can not be justified except
in the case of a clear and unmistakable disregard of rights
secured by the supreme law of the land."
The question here is whether a Chinese citizen of the
United States is denied equal protection of the laws when
he is classed among the colored races and furnished facilities for education equal to that offered to all, whether
white, brown, yellow or black. Were this a new question,

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

it would call for very full argument and consideration,
but we think that it is the same question which has been
many times decided to be within the constitutional power
of the state legislature to settle without intervention of
the federal courts under the Federal Constitution.
Roberts v. City of Boston, 5 Cush. (Mass.) 198, 206, 208,
209; State ex rel. Games v. McCann, 21 Oh. St. 198, 210;
People ex rel. King v. Gallagher, 93 N. Y. 438; People
ex rel. Cisco v. School Board, 161 N. Y. 598; Ward v.
Flood, 48 Cal. 36; Wysinger v. Crookshank, 82 Cal. 588,
590; Reynolds v. Board of Education, 66 Kans. 672;
McMillan v. School Committee, 107 N. C. 609; Cory v.
Carter, 48 Ind. 327; Lehew v. Brummell, 103 Mo. 546;
Dameron v. Bayless, 14 Ariz. 180; State ex rel. Stoutmeyer v. Duffy, 7 Nev. 342, 348, 355; Bertonneauv. Board,
3 Woods 177, s. c. 3 Fed. Cases, 294, Case No. 1,361;
United States v. Buntin, 10 Fed. 730, 735; Wong Him v.
Callahan,119 Fed. 381.
In Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537, 544, 545, in upholding the validity under the Fourteenth Amendment
of a statute of Louisiana requiring the separation of the
white and colored races in railway coaches, a more difficult question than this, this Court, speaking of permitted
race separation, said:
"The most common instance of this is connected with
the establishment of separate schools for white and
colored children, which has been held to be a valid exercise of the legislative power even by courts of States
where the political rights of the colored race have been
longest and most earnestly enforced."
The case of Roberts v. City of Boston, supra, in which
Chief Justice Shaw of the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts, announced the opinion of that court upholding the separation of colored and white schools under

COMPAR4iA DE TABACOS v. COLLECTOR.

87

Syllabus.

78

a state constitutional injunction of equal protection, the
same as the Fourteenth Amendment, was then referred
to, and this Court continued:
"Similar laws have been enacted by Congress under
its general power of legislation over the District of
Columbia, Rev. Stat. D. C. §§ 281, 282, 283, 310, 319, as
well as by the legislatures of many of the States, and have
been generally, if not uniformly, sustained by the
Courts," citing many of the cases above named.
Most of the cases cited arose, it is true, over the establishment of separate schools as between white pupils and
black pupils, but we can not think that the question is
any different or that any different result can be reached,
assuming the cases above cited to be rightly decided,
where the issue is as between white pupils and the pupils
of the yellow races. The decision is within the discretion
of the state in regulating its public schools and does not
conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment. The judgment
of the Supreme Court of Mississippi is
Affirmed.
COMPANIA GENERAL DE TABACOS DE FILIPINAS v. COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI

TO THE

SUPREME

COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE

ISLANDS.

No. 42. Argued October 18, 19, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.
1. A foreign corporation which has property and does business
through agents in the Philippine Islands is subject to the taxing
power of the Island government as a quasi sovereign, but the
power is limited by the Organic Act. P. 92.
2. The liberty secured by the Organic Act embraces the right to
make contracts and accumulate property and do business outside
of the Philippine Islands and beyond its jurisdiction without prohibition, regulation, or governmental exaction. P. 92.

