70

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

275 U. S.

he must stop for the train, not the train stop for him. In
such circumstances it seems to us that if a driver cannot
be sure otherwise whether a train is dangerously near he
must stop and get out of his vehicle, although obviously
he will not often be required to do more than to stop and
look. It seems to us that if he relies upon not hearing the
train or any signal and takes no further precaution he does
so at his own risk. If at the last moment Goodman found
himself in an emergency it was his own fault that he did
not reduce his speed earlier or come to a stop. It is true
as .said in Flannelly v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 225 U. S.
597, 603, that the question of due care very generally is
left to the jury. But we are dealing with a standard of
conduct, and when the standard is clear it should be laid
down once for all by the Courts. See Southern Pacific
Co. v. Berkshire, 254 U. S. 415, 417, 419.
Judgment reversed.
FAIRMONT CREAMERY COMPANY v. MINNESOTA.
MOTION TO IRETAX COSTS.

No. 725, October Term, 1926. Submitted October 17, 1927.-Decided
November 21, 1927.
1. A clause imposing costs inserted in a final judgment of this Court
by the clerk and approved by the Justice who wrote the opinion
disposing of the case, is the act of the Court, not merely of the
clerk, and is beyond the power of the Court to recall after expiration of the term. So held where no petition for rehearing was
made within the 40 days allowed by Rule 30. P. 72.
2. As a party to litigation in this Court, a State is not immune to
costs in virtue of its sovereignty. P. 73.
3. A rule as to the awarding and division of costs is within the
inherent authority of this Court as to all litigants before it, except
the United States. P. 74.

FAIRMONT CO. v. MINNESOTA.
70

Opinion of the Court.

4. Costs may be awarded against States, as litigants before this Court,
in criminal as well as civil cases. Rule 29, § 3; cf. Jud. Code § 254.
United States v. Gaines, 131 U. S. Appendix clxix, distinguished.

P. 75.
THIs was a motion by the State to retax, i. e., to
eliminate, the costs allowed against it in this Court. The
allowance was included in a judgment reversing a conviction of the Creamery Company in a state prosecution
based on a statute which the Court found unconstitutional. 274 U. S. 1.

Messrs. Clifford L. Hilton, Attorney General of Minnesota, and Charles E. Phillips, Assistant Attorney General, for defendant in error, in support of the motion.
Messrs. Eugene J. Hainer, Leonard A. Flansburg,
George A. Lee, and M. S. Hartman for plaintiff in error,
in opposition thereto.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a motion by the State of Minnesota to retax the
costs in this Court, which, by the judgment herein have
been awarded against it. The Fairmont Creamery Company was charged with an offense under a statute of Minnesota before a justice of the peace, aid was convicted.
The judgment was affirmed on appeal to the District
Court for the county, and this was in turn affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State. 168 Minn. 378, 381. The
Creamery Company then sued out a writ of error from
this Court, which on April 11, 1927, reversed the judgment, because of the unconstitutionality of the statute
under which the conviction had been had. 274 U. S. 1.
The following was the judgment:
".
On consideration whereof, It is now here ordered and adjudged by this Court that the judgment of

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

the said Supreme Court, in this cause, be, and the same is
hereby, reversed with costs; and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, remanded to the said Supreme Court
for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion
of this Court."
No application for rehearing was made during the term
which ended on June 6, 1927. The mandate was issued,
and filed with the Supreme Court of Minnesota in July,
1927. The motion of defendant in error now before us
was filed September 30, 1927.
Our Rule 30, effective July 1, 1925, provides that a
petition for rehearing may be filed with the Clerk, in term
time or in vacation, within forty days after judgment is
entered, but not later. It is contended by the plaintiff in
error that the motion to retax costs would amend the
judgment after the term and must be denied, for the reason that this Court has no further jurisdiction in the matter. Peck v. Sanderson, 18 How. 42; Sibbald v. United
States, 12 Pet. 488, 491, 492; Schell v. Dodge, 107 U. S.
629, 630; Phillips v. Negley, 117 U. S. 665, 674. In
answer, it is said that this limitation upon the power of
the court does not include mere misprisions of the clerk or
clerical errors. Bank of Kentucky v. Wistar, 3 Pet. 431;
Bank of United States v. Moss, 6 How. 31, 38. In the
former case, the failure to include as damages in a judgment 6 per cent. interest when required by a rule of the
Court was held to be a clerical error that could be corrected after the term. So it is said that the inclusion of
the costs in this case was a mere misprision of the clerk,
because merely added by the clerk without any special
order of the Court. This is inferred because no reference
to costs appears in the published opinion. It is not the
proper inference. The provision as to costs appears in the
judgment, the form of which was, in accordance with our
practice, approved by the Justice who wrote the opinion.

FAIRMONT CO. v. MINNESOTA.
70

Opinion of the Court.

He acted under authority of § 3, Rule 29, providing: "In
cases of reversal of any judgment or decree by this court,
costs shall be allowed to the plaintiff in error, appellant
or petitioner, unless otherwise ordered by the court."
A clause in a final judgment affecting costs has been
held to be substantial and not within the court's power to
change after the term. Jourolmanv. East Tennessee Land
Co., 85 Fed. 251; Staude Manufacturing Co. v. Labombarde, 247 Fed. 879. The distinction between cases, in
which provisions as to interest or costs may be changed
after the term and those in which they can not be, lies in
the nature and source of the alleged error. If it is made
by the clerk in following or not following a rule of court,
or for some other. reason, the error may be remedied, but
if the action complained of was approved by the court, it
is beyond recall. Here the judgment as to costs was the
action of the Court. See St. Louis and San FranciscoR. R.
Co. v. Spiller, post, p. 156.
But we are not content to dispose of the motion on this
ground alone, even though it be adequate, for the main
question is one of much importance in the every day practice before us and ought to be decided now. The argument for the state is that this is a criminal case; that costs
in criminal proceedings are only a creature of statute, and
that this court has no power to award them against a state
unless legislation of the state has conferred it. This is the
rule as to the state court in Minnesota. State v. Buckman, 95 Minn. 272, 278. At common law the public pays
no costs, in England the King does not, and the state
here, it is said, stands in the place of the King. So it is
insisted that, when the state is brought into this Court as
a defendant in error in a criminal proceeding, and the
judgment of the Court goes against it, costs can not be
awarded against the state because it is a sovereign.
That the sovereign is not to be taxed with costs in either
civil or criminal cases by rule of court without a statute

OCTOBER TERM, 192Y.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

is undoubtedly true. Chief Justice Marshall, in the case
of United States v. Barker, 2 Wheat. 395, said: "The
United States never pay costs." In Reeside v. Walker,
11 How. 272, at p. 290, this Court said: "The sovereignty
of the government not only protects it against suits
directly, but against judgments even for cost, when it
fails in prosecutions." The Antelope, 12 Wheat. 546, 550;
United States v. McLemore, 4 How. 286, 288; United
States v. Boyd, 5 How. 29, 51. See also Nabb v. United
States, 1 Ct. Cl. 173; Henry v. United States, 15 Ct. Cl.
162. But is the state to be regarded as the sovereign here?
This Court is not a court created by the State of Minnesota. The case is brought by a writ of error issued
under the authority of the United States by virtue of the
Constitution of the United States. It is not here by the
state's consent but by virtue of a law, to which it is
subject. Though a sovereign, in many respects, the state
when a party to litigation in this Court loses some of its
character as such.
For many years, costs have been awarded by this Court
against states. Under the judicial article of the Constitution, the original jurisdiction of this Court includes suits
to which a state is a party. There have been many
boundary and other cases brought here by one state
against another in which costs have been awarded against
one of them and often against both. Usually they have
been divided, but if the case proves to be a "litigious
case," so-called, all the costs have been assessed against
the defeated party. State of North Dakota v. State of
Minnesota, 263 U. S., 583. State of Missouri v. State of
Iowa, 7 How. 660, 681, shows that this has been the practice since 1849. A rule of this Court as to the awarding
and division of costs is, of course, not a statute, but such a
rule seems to us to be within the inherent authority of
the Court in the orderly administration of justice as
between all parties litigant, properly within its jurisdic-

FAIRMONT CO. v. MINNESOTA.
70

Opinion of the Court.

tion, except the sovereign government. This view is supported by the history of Rule No. 37 of this Court in the
January Term of 1831, 5 Pet. 724. That shows that,
against the dissent of Mr. Justice Baldwin, this Court
adopted a rule imposing costs against a defendant for a
transcript of record in cases of reversal. The dissent was
based on the ground that no costs could be imposed
by this Court by rule without specific authority of a
statute.
It is insisted that, while in civil cases costs may be
awarded against a state as a litigant before this Court, the
rule does not apply in criminal cases. As the objection to
taxing costs against a state has been because of its
sovereign character, and that, as we have said, has no
application to a state as a litigant in this Court, there
would seem to be no more reason for immunity in a
criminal case than in a civil one. But it is pointed out
that this distinction has been made by this Court in the
case of United States ex rel. Phillips v. Gaines, 131 U. S.,
Appendix, clxix. That was a writ of error from this Court
on a certificate of division between the Judges of the
United States Circuit Court for the Middle District of
Tennessee. It was a mandamus case brought to command
the comptroller of the state to issue his warrant to the
state treasurer for the payment of a bill of costs of an
indictment against Phillips, one of the relators. In 1870,
Phillips had been indicted in the county of Putnam for the
murder of one Ford. Phillips presented his petition to the
state court, pi'aying for the removal of the indictment into
the Circuit Court of the United States by virtue of three
Acts of Congress, the first, of March 3, 1863, c. 81, 12
Stat. 755, 756, § 5, the second, of May 11, 1866, c. 80, 14
Stat. 46, § 3, and the last, of February 5, 1867, c. 27, 14
Stat. 385. Their purpose was to enable any officer of the
United States, military or civil, charged with a crime,
against the state, for acts done under color of federal

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

authority, to remove the prosecution into the Circuit
Court of the United States for trial by the state prosecuting officers in that court. In 1874, the State of Tennessee,
by her attorney, appeared and dismissed the case, agreeing that the costs should be adjudged against the state.
The Circuit Court accordingly rendered the judgment for
costs. A warrant for the payment of the costs was demanded from the state comptroller and refused. Mr. Justice Strong, in deciding the case, said:
" Costs in criminal proceedings are a creature of statute,
and a court has no power to award them unless some
statute has conferred it."
He pointed out that this was the rule in the State of
Tennessee, Mooneys v. State, 2 Yerger, (Tenn.) 578, but
referred to an Act of 1813 of that State in which it was
provided that in all criminal cases above the grade of petit
larceny, where the defendant was acquitted, costs should
be paid out of the treasury of the State. There were certain statutory prerequisites before they could be paid by
the comptroller. The judgment of this Court turned on
the fact that such prerequisites had not been complied
with. The language of the court indicated that costs could
only be awarded in accordance with the statute of the
State of Tennessee. We do not think that the case on its
facts is an authority here. There was a peculiar and
exceptional situation. The case was a prosecution by the
State of Tennessee, and its trial by the state was bodily
transferred to the environment of the Circuit Court of the
United States. All incidents of a trial of the case in the
state court were regarded as following the case in the federal court. The question of costs was, therefore, thought
to be governed by the same rule as it would have been in
the state court.
Without reconsidering the correctness of that ruling,
we think the case here to be different. The costs here
incurred are in a litigation brought by writ of error into

FAIRMONT CO. v. MINNESOTA.
70

Opinion of the Court.

this Court to test the validity under the Federal Constitution of a statute of the state. The incidents of the hearing
are those which attach to the regular jurisdiction of this
Court. We have had our Clerk make an examination of
our records reaching back to 1860. There were one hundred twenty-nine cases examined, which do, not include
the boundary cases between states on the Original docket
already referred to. It thus appears that since that date
the invariable practice has been when the judgment has
been against a state in both civil and criminal cases to
adjudge costs against it, under the Rule which is now § 3,
Rule 29, of our present Rules. That rule in different
forms, and under a different number, has been in force
since the February term, 1810. Dewhurst, Rules of Practice in the U. S. Courts (2d ed.) 153. It has been in its
present form since the January Term, 1858. See St. Louis
and San FranciscoR. R. Co. v. Spiller, post, p. 156. We
think that the rule, construed by long practice, justifies
us in treating the state just as any other litigant and in
imposing costs upon it as such, without regard to the
inferences sought to be drawn from United States ex rel.
Phillips v. Gaines, supra.
If specific statutory authority is needed, it is found in
§ 254 of the Judicial Code, which first appeared in the
Act of March 3, 1877, c. 105, 19 Stat. 344, and was reenacted March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087, 1160. It provides that there shall be "taxed against the losing party
in each and every cause pending in the. Supreme Court "
the cost of printing the record, except when the judgment
is against the United States. This exception of the United
States in the section with its emphatic inclusion of every
other litigant shows that a state as litigant must pay the
costs of printing, if it loses, in every case, civil or criminal.
These costs constitute a large part of all. the costs. The
section certainly constitutes pro tanto statutory authority
to impose costs generally against a state if defeated.
The motion is denied.

