GULF,
449

R. R. v. WELLS.

ETC.,

Syllabus.

ment of that judgment in Washington is, in substance,
that it must there be denied validity because it contravenes the Washington statute and would have been void
if rendered in a court of Washington; that is, in effect,
that it was based upon an error of law. It cannot be impeached upon that ground. If McDonald desired to rely
upon the Washington statute as a protection from any
judgment that would extend the force of the Washington
judgment beyond six years from its rendition, he should
have set up that statute in the court of Oregon and submitted to that court the question of its construction and
effect. And even if this had been done, he could not
thereafter have impeached the validity of the judgment
because of a misapprehension of the Washington law. In
short, the Oregon judgment, being valid and conclusive
between the parties in that State, was equally conclusive
in the courts of Washington, and under the full faith and
credit clause should have been enforced by them.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington is
reversed; and the case remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Writ of error dismissed; certiorari granted; reversed.
GULF,

MOBILE

AND

NORTHERN

RAILROAD

COMPANY v. WELLS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 39.

Argued October 18, 1927.-Decided January 3, 1928.

1. A judgment for damages cannot stand in an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act if, under the applicable principles of
law as interpreted by the federal courts, the evidence was not suffi-

cient in kind- or amount to warrant a finding that the negligence
alleged was the cause of the injury. P. 457.
2. A brakeman, in seeking to board the caboose of a local freight
train moving at ten miles per hour, ran to it from where he had

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

thrown a switch, and as he caught a grabiron, turned his foot on a
piece of coal, went down, was thrown loose from the train, fell to
the ground and was injured. Held, that his testimony to the effect
that the loss of his hold was due to an unusual jerk given by the
engine, more severe than any he had experienced or seen on a local
freight train, could not sustain an inference of negligence upon the
part of the engineer, (1) because there was no evidence that the
engineer knew or should have known that he was not on the
train, but was attempting to get on it after it had started and was
in a situation in which a jerk of the train would be dangerous to
him; (2) because, in view of the brakeman's position, at the side
of the caboose, ten car-lengths from the engine, his statement that
the jerk was given by the engine was mere conjecture; (3) because,
considering his situation at the time, his opinion that the jerk was
unusual was without substantial weight. P. 458.
Reversed.

CERTIORARI, 271 U. S. 654, to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Mississippi, sustaining a judgment for
personal injuries in an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
Mr. Ellis B. Cooper for petitioner.
Mr. W. Calvin Wells for respondent.

MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This action was brought by Wells in a circuit court of
Mississippi to recover damages for injuries suffered by
him while employed as a brakeman on a freight train of
the Railroad Company. The declaration alleged that
these injuries were caused by the negligence of the engineer in giving a very sudden and unnecessary jerk to the
train when it was moving and Wells was undertaking to
get on it, which threw him on the ground. At the conclusion of the evidence the Railroad Company requested that
the jury be instructed to find for the defendant. This
was refused. The jury found for the plaintiff; and the

GULF,
455

ETC.,

R. R. v. WELLS.

457

Opinion of the Court.

judgment entered on the verdict was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State, without opinion.
It is unquestioned that Wells was at the time employed in interstate commerce, and that the case is controlled by the Federal Employers' Liability Act.' Hence,
if it appears from the record that under the applicable
principles of law as interpreted by the Federal courts, the
evidence was not sufficient, in kind or amount, to warrant
a finding that the negligence of the engineer was the cause
of the injury, the judgment must be reversed. Seaboard

Air Line v. Padgett,236 U. S. 668, 673; Chicago, M. & St.
P. Railway v. Coogan, 271 U. S. 472, 474.
Wells, who had been employed as an extra brakeman
for a few months, was on the day of the injury the rear
brakeman on a local freight train containing ten cars.
After stopping at a station where, some switching was
done, the train was coupled up on the main track, on a
down grade, in readiness to proceed on its journey. The
engineer, fireman and head brakeman were in the cab of
the engine. The engineer was on the right side, and the
fireman on the left, it being his duty to take signals from
that side and pass them to the engineer. The conductor
and flagman were in the caboose at the rear of the train,
and Wells was standing on the left of the train, near the
caboose. Wells gave a signal to the fireman for the train
to go ahead; and the fireman then went down into the
deck of the engine to shovel in coal. Just after this signal
was given Wells was told by the conductor to throw a
derail switch on the left of the main track, some fifty feet
from the caboose. After doing this, finding that the train
had already started, he ran back. When he reached the
train it had gone about fifty feet and was moving from
eight to ten miles an hour. The cars had then passed
him and he started to get on the caboose. He testified
'35 Stat. 65, c. 149.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

that as he caught the grab iron he stepped on a big piece
of coal, his foot turned and he "went down and the engine
gave an unusual jerk" which threw him loose from the
train, and he fell on the ground, his knee, striking on the
cross ties, breaking the kneecap and otherwise injuring
him. He also testified, on cross examination, that while
the running in of slack on freight trains jerks or lurches
them to a certain extent, this was a severe jerk such as
he had never experienced before on a train; and, finally,
that although he had seen such jerks on through freight
trains, he had never seen them in local freights. The
plaintiff offered no other evidence as to the cause of the
injury.
All the other members of the train crew were introduced
as witnesses by the defendant. Their testimony was to
the effect that it was not the duty of the engineer before
starting to look out for the men who might be on the
other side of the train, that being the duty of the fireman;
that when the engineer pulled out he did not know where
Wells was; that he started in the ordinary way, with open
throttle, and did nothing in operating the engine that
could cause a sudden or unusual lurch of the train; that
after a freight train starts there are usually jerks or
lurches caused by the running out of the slack between
the cars; that after the slack runs out the engineer cannot
give any jerk or lurch to the train even by suddenly putting on steam; and that at the time of the injury there
was in fact no unusual jerk or lurch of the train. No
rebuttal evidence was offered.
It is urged here in behalf of Wells that, despite this
evidence, the question of the engineer's negligence was
properly submitted to the jury because of an inference to
be drawn from Wells' own statement that "the engine
gave an unusual jerk" which was more severe than any he
had ever experienced or seen on a local freight train. We
cannot sustain this contention. In the first place, there

GULF, ETC., R. -1,. v. WELLS.
455

459

Opinion of the Court.

was no evidence that the engineer knew or should have
known that Wells was not on the train, but was attempting to get on it after it had started and was in a situation
in which a jerk of the train would be dangerous to him.
See Texas & Pacific Railway v. Behymer, 189 U. S. 468,
470. Aside from this, Wells' statement that the jerk was
given by the engine, was, obviously, a mere conjecture, as
he was then at the side of the caboose, ten car lengths
away, where he could not see what occurred on the
engine. And his opinion that the jerk was unusual and
severe as compared with those which he had previously
experienced on local freight trains, had no substantial
weight; his situation on the ground by the side of the
moving train, after his foot had turned on the piece of
coal and he had gone " down," being plainly one in which
he could not compare with any accuracy the jerk which he
then felt with those he had experienced when riding on
freight trains.
In short, we find that on the evidence and all the inferences which the jury might reasonably draw therefrom,
taken most strongly against the Railway Company, the
contention that the injury was caused by the negligence
of the engineer is without any substantial support. In
no aspect does the record do more than leave the, matter
in the realm of speculation and conjecture. That is not
enough. Patton v. Texas & Pacific Railway, 179 U. S.
658, 663; Chicago, M. & St. P. Railway v. Coogan, 271
U. S. 478.
As the jury should have been instructed to find for the
defendant, we have no occasion to consider other questions
which have been argued in reference to the charge to the
jury.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded to
the Supreme Court of Mississippi for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

