WICKWIRE v. REINECkE.
87

Syllabus.

But here an act was done in the Islands that was intended
by the plaintiff to be and was an essential step towards
the insurance, and, if that is not enough, the Government
of the Islands was protecting the property at the very
moment in respect of which it levied the tax. Precisely
this question was met and disposed of in Equitable Life
Assurance Co. v. Pennsylvania, 238 U. S. 143, 147.
The result of upholding the Government's action is
just. When it taxes domestic insurance it reasonably
may endeavor not to let the foreign insurance escape. If
it does not discriminate against the latter, it naturally
does not want to discriminate against its own.
The suggestion that the rule of taxation is not uniform
may be disposed of in a few words. The uniformity
required is uniformity in substance, not in form. The
insurance is taxed uniformly, and although in the case
of domestic insurance the tax is laid upon the Company
whereas here it is laid upon the insured, it must be
presumed that in the former case the Company passes
the tax on to the insured as an element in the premium
charged.

For these reasons Mr. Justice

BRANDEIS

and I are of

the opinion that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
the Islands should be affirmed.
WICKWIRE, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS EXECUTRIX, v. REINECKE, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT

No. 149.

Submitted October 3, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.

1. A decision of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue that property
of a decedent was transferred by him in contemplation of death,
within the meaning of ยง 402-c, Revenue Act of 1918, (estate tax),
is not conclusive, but the burden of proving it incorrect is on the
party suing the collector to recover taxes based upon it. P. 105.

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

2. Evidence, on this question, held sufficient to go to the jury. P. .104.
3. The right to a jury in a suit to recover taxes from a collector is
not based on the Seventh Amendment, but arises by implication
from ยง 3226, Rev. Stats., allowing a suit" at law." P. 105.
14 F. (2d) 956, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 273 U. S. 687, to a judgment of the Circuit

Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of the District Court dismissing a suit brought to recover from the
Collector money demanded, and paid under protest, as an
estate tax.
Mr. Forest D. Siefkin for petitioner.
Solicitor General Mitchell, Assistant Attorney General
Willebrandt, and Mr. Sewall Key, Attorney in the Department of Justice, for respondent, were unable to support the reasoning of the Circuit Court of Appeals, but
felt constrained to present the case fully in deference to
the views of that court.
Mr. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit by Jessie L. Wickwire, individually and
as executrix of her husband, Edward L. Wickwire, to
recover taxes from the United States Collector of Internal
Revenue for the first district of Illinois, on the ground
that they were assessed against her and collected without
legal authority. The tax was a so-called estate tax
assessed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue under
ยง 402(c) of the Revenue Act of 1918 (c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057,
1097). The section and paragiaph provided:
"That the value of the gross estate of the decedent
shall be determined by including the value at the time of
his death of all property, real or personal, tangible or
. .
intangible, wherever situated"(c) To the extent of any interest therein of which
the decedent has at any time made a transfer, or with

WICKWIRE v. REINECKE.
101

Opinion of the Court.

respect to which he has at any time created a trust, in
contemplation of or intended to take effect in possession
or enjoyment at or after his death (whether such transfer
or trust is made or created before or after the passage of
this Act), except in case of a bona fide sale for a fair consideration in money or money's worth. Any transfer of
a material part of his property in the nature of a final
disposition or distribution thereof, made by the decedent
within two years prior to his death without such a consideration, shall, unless shown to the contrary, be deemed
to have been made in contemplation of death within the
meaning of this title;
"
On December 22, 1919, the decedent, Edward L. Wickwire, transferred to his wife, the petitioner herein, cash
and securities to the value of $362,028.48. He died April
21, 1920. The executrix did not include the value of the
transferred property as part of the gross estate in her
return for federal estate tax purposes. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue claimed and, after the usual
administrative hearings, determined that the transfer
was made in contemplation of death, and assessed as a
tax $18,021.41, which was paid. The declaration of the
petitioner set up these facts and alleged that the transfer
by her husband to her was not in contemplation of death.
The case came on for trial, a jury was impaneled and
sworn, counsel for the executrix made his opening statement, called one witness and was examining him when
the court interrupted the proceedings to raise on its own
motion the point that the finding of the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, unless impeached for fraud, bad faith,
or mistaken legal theory, could not be reviewed by the
court. Accordingly the attorney for the United States
thereupon interposed a motion to dismiss. The petitioner then made certain offers of proof to establish the
fact that the transfer was not in contemplation of death,

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

which was excluded by the court. The case was then
dismissed.
The tender of evidence was included in a bill of exceptions, and was, in general, that the deceased was 62 years
old at the time of his death; that he had been suffering
for eighteen years from diabetes, but that his condition
until early in 1920 was as good as, or better than, it had
been for ten years before that time; that his death was
from uremic poisoning, the result of an attack of influenza suffered while he was in the South after the transfer;
that he had long agreed with his wife that half of what
he had belonged to her, but that their capital had been
tied up so in business in his name that her half could not
be given her until the business was reorganized and
turned over to a stock company; that his doctor, a specialist in diabetes, assured him that, while his condition
was that of a diabetic, he was not actually afflicted with
diabetes, though it might recur; that he had no reason
to anticipate death in the near future when he made the
transfer in December, 1919; that the transfer was in pursuance to a plan long made and not in anticipation of
death.
The action of the court below was based on the supposed authority of Park Falls Lumber Co. v. BurIingame,
1 Fed. (2d) 855, a decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit. On a writ of error, the latter
Court held that the case cited was not in point, and that
the lower court was not concluded by the finding of the
Commissioner on the question of fact as to whether the
transfer was in contemplation of death, and that the question was possibly a judicial one. But the court added:
"Notwithstanding this, the case, on the whole record,
should be, and is, affirmed." The explanation of this
action, as suggested by the Solicitor General, is that, while
the Circuit Court of Appeals held that the trial court had

WICKWIRE v. REINECKE.
101

Opinion of the Court.

given a wrong reason for its action, its judgment should
be affirmed because the opening statement of counsel for
the petitioner, together with the evidence introduced by
him and that offered by her, but rejected, showed conclusively as a matter of law that the transfer was in
contemplation of death.
It is quite clear that, as held by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, the ruling of the trial court was erroneous, and
that the decision of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
was not conclusive, but only furnished prima facie evidence of its correctness. United States v. Rindskopf, 105
U. S. 418; Fidelity& Columbia.Trust Co. v. Lucas, 7 Fed.
(2d) 146. Upon the issue whether the transfer had been
made in contemplation of death, the burden of proof was
by the terms of the statute on the petitioner, as indeed it
would have been without the special provision of the statute, because she was the plaintiff. We have not set forth
in extenso the evidence which was offered, but it is very
clear that there was enough to go to the jury to meet the
burden against the petitioner on this main issue, and that
the Circuit Court of Appeals was in error.in holding otherwise. Indeed we do not understand the Solicitor General
to contest this.
It was suggested, in the brief for the United States in
resisting the application for certiorari, that the assignment
of error made on behalf of the petitioner was inadequate
in that it was not based on a reference to the Seventh
Amendment to the Constitution requiring a jury trial in
a civil case involving more than twenty dollars. This
objection has not been renewed in the brief on the merits,
doubtless because the right of the petitioner to a jury in
such a case is not to be found in the Seventh Amendment
to the Constitution but merely arises by implication from
the provisions of ยง 3226, Revised Statutes, which has reference to a suit at law. It is within the undoubted power

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

275 U. S.

of Congress to provide any reasonable system for the collection of taxes and the recovery of them when illegal,
without a jury trial-if only the injunction against the
taking of property without due process of law in the
method of collection and protection of the taxpayer is
satisfied. Murray'sLessee v. Hoboken Land and Improvement Co., 18 How. 272, 281, 282, 284; Nichols v. United
States, 7 Wall. 122, 127; Cheatham v. United States, 92
U. S. 85, 88, 89.
The judgments, both of the Circuit Court. of Appeals
and of the District Court, are reversed, and the cause is.
remanded to the District Court for further proceedings.
Reversed.
SEGUROLA ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 195.

Argued October 12, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.

1. Under the Organic Act of Porto Rico an accused person is entitled
to have a copy of the information free of clerk's fees. P. 109.
2. Refusal to furnish the copy free is harmless when the accused,
attended by counsel, waived the reading of the information and
pleaded not guilty. P. 110.
3. Where evidence of a search and seizure of intoxicating liquor,
including the liquor itself, clearly proved defendants guilty of
illegal transportation, and was introduced without objection to the
search and seizure, refusal to require a police officer on crossexamination to give the name of the person from whom he obtained information leading to the search, and refusal to sustain a
motion to suppress the liquor as evidence upon the ground that the
search and seizure were illegal, were not prejudicial. P. 111.
4. In a prosecution for transporting intoxicating liquor, the objection
that the liquor was obtained by a search and seizure instituted
without warrant or probable cause comes too late when raised for
the first time after the liquor has been offered in evidence and

admitted. P. 111.
16 F. (2d) 563, affirmed.

