388

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

THE STEEL TRADER.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 106. Argued December 2, 1927.-Decided January 3, 1928.
1. Under Rev. Stats., § 4527, a seaman who, having signed articles
in this country for a voyage to foreign ports and return, and who,
without his fault or consent, was discharged at another port in
this country, after the voyage had begun but before one month's
wages were earned, was entitled to recover, in addition to the wages
earned, a sum equal to one month's wages, as compensation; but
he cannot recover wages for the full period of the voyage. P. 390.
2. Rev. Stats., § 4527, is applicable not only where the wrongful discharge is "before the commencement of the voyage," but also if
it occurs after such commencement but "before one month's wages
are earned." Id.
13 F. (2d) 614, reversed.
CERTIORAR, 273 U. S. 680, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which affirmed a decree of the District
Court in Admiralty, 10 F. (2d) 248, 250, awarding wages
to a discharged seaman. The proceeding was in rem, but
the decree was entered against claimant and surety as
stipulators on a bond by which the ship was released
from seizure.

Mr. John M. Woolsey, with whom Messrs. George
Denggre, Jas. Hy. Bruns, George Denneny, and Frederic
R. Sanborn were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Silas B. Axtell, with whom Mr. Eugene S. Hayford
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
November 29, 1921, at New Orleans, La., reslondent
Adams signed articles for services as oiler on the "Steel
The docket title of this case is United States Steel Products Company v. Adarms.
*

THE STEEL TRADER.
388

389

Opinion of the Court

Trader" during a voyage from that city to East Indian
Ports and return, at $80 per month. December 12, 1921,
after the voyage began and while at Port Arthur, Texas,
he was discharged without fault on his part and without
his consent. He received before a Shipping Commissioner the wages earned and $80.00 more. The vessel
returned to New Orleans May 19, 1922. Thereafter
Adams instituted this proceeding in rem wherein he
sought to recover as damages the stipulated wages from
December 12, 1921, to May 19, 1922, plus $2.50 per day
for subsistence. The trial court granted recovery for the
amount of such wages ($414.50) less $80.00, with interest
from May 19, 1922, 10 Fed. (2d) 248, 250, and the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed that action, 13 Fed. (2d) 614.
The only matter for our consideration is the proper
interpretation and construction of § 4527, U. S. Revised
Statutes (§ 21, Ch. 322, Act of June 7, 1872, 17 Stat.
266) U. S. C. Title 46, § 594, which follows"Any seaman who has signed an agreement and is afterward discharged before the commencement of the voyage
or before one month's wages are earned, without fault on
his part justifying such discharge, and without his consent,
shall be entitled to receive from the master or owner, in
addition to any wages he may have earned, a sum equal in
amount to one month's wages as compensation, and may,
on adducing evidence satisfactory to the court hearing the
case, of having been improperly discharged, recover such
compensation as if it were wages duly earned."
Chapter 322, Act of June 7, 1872,-sixty-eight sections--prescribes elaborate regulations concerning employment, wages, treatment and protection of seamen.
Inter-Island Steam Navigation Co. v. Byrne, 239 U. S.459,
460. Section 21 became § 4527, R. S. without material
change.
The trial court held that § 4527 applies only to a
wrongful discharge before commencement of the voyage.

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U.S.

The Circuit Court of Appeals concluded that "the language of R. -S. § 4527 is consistent with an intention
to treat the amount required to be paid to the wrongfully discharged seaman as compensation for the service al-

ready rendered by him "; and that payment thereof does
not absolve from liability for breach of the shipping

articles.
We think both courts adopted improper views. According to the plain language employed, the section in
question applies where the discharge takes place before
the commencement of the voyage or before one month's
wages are earned. Also we think, in the specified circumstances, payment of wages actually earned, with an additional sum equal to one month's wages, satisfies all liability for breach of the contract of employment by wrongful discharge. The legislation was intended to afford
seamen a simple, summary method of establishing and
enforcing damages.
Mr. Conger, who reported the bill, which later became
the Act of June 7, 1872, for the committee and had charge
of it in the House of Representatives, there stated-" The
bill is substantially the Shipping-Commissioner's Act of
England [The British Merchant Shipping Act of 1854]
with such changes as have been deemed necessary to adapt
."
Congressional Globe of
it to this country. .
March 20, 1872, p. 1836.
The Shipping Act of 1854 provides--

"Sec. 167. Any seaman who has signed an aireement,
and is afterwards discharged before the commencement of
the voyage, or before one month's wages are earned, without fault on his part justifying such discharge and without
his consent, shall be entitled to -eceive from the master
or owner, in addition to any wages he may have earned,
due compensation for the damage thereby caused to him,

THE STEEL TRADER.
388

Opinion of the Court.

not exceeding one month's wages, and may, on adducing
such evidence as the Court hearing the case deems satisfactory of his having been so improperly discharged as
aforesaid, recover such compensation as if it were wages
duly earned."*
Speaking of § 167 in Tindle v. Davison, Queen's Bench
Div. 1892, 66 L. T. N. S. 372, 374, Wright, J., said:
"... The meaning of the section is that, when a seaman is improperly discharged, he is to have due compensation up to a month's wages in lieu of his right of action,
unless he has earned a month's wages, in which case the
section does' not apply."
The word compensation, in § 4527, distinctly indicates that payment of a sum equal to one month's wages
was intended to constitute the remedy for invasion of the
seaman's right through breach of his contract of employment in the circumstances specified. "Damages consist
in compensation for loss sustained .
. By the general
system of our law, for every invasion of right there is a
remedy, and that remedy is compensation. This compensation is furnished in the damages which are awarded."
Sedgwick's Damages, 9th Edition, Vol. 1; page 24. See
also Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S.548. The provision that
such sum may be recovered "as if it were wages duly
earned " permits the seaman to enforce payment by the
*Sec. 162, British Merchant Shipping Act of 1894, which corresponds to Sec. 167, Act of 1854 provides:-" If a seaman, having
signed an agreement, is discharged otherwise than in accordance with
the terms thereof before the commencement of the voyage, or before
one month's wages are earned, without fault on his part justifying
that discharge, and without his consent, he shall be entitled to receive
from the master or owner, in addition to any wages he may have
earned, due compensation for the damage caused to him by the discharge not exceeding one month's wages, and may recover that compensation as if it were wages duly earned."

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

special and summary methods provided for collecting his
ordinary wages.
In Calvin v. Huntley (1901) 178 Mass. 29, 32, we think
the Supreme Court of Massachusetts properly interpreted
§ 4527, and in respect of it rightly said"It speaks not of punishment but of compensation,
its object is to protect the seaman from loss rather than
to punish the master for discharging him. The remedy is
given to the seaman alone, and its plain purpose is to furnish a clear and well defined rule of damages as between
him and the master for a breach of contract in which the
seaman and the master or owner are the only persons
interested...
"Nor does the rule of damages seem unreasonable.
The shipping contract calls upon the seaman to go to
various places,, sometimes far from home, and it may be,
for instance as in this case was the actual fact, that he may
be discharged in a port distant from that where he signed
the articles, or where he can not immediately secure any
other employment on board ship or elsewhere, and that in
all fairness he should recover more than the amount due
him for wages earned. Hence it might be deemed advisable to have this indefinite element made definite by a general law with reference to which the parties may conclusively be presumed to have contracted, and which therefore should be taken to be the law of the contract. The
object of the statute is not to punish but to provide a
reasonable rule of compensation for a breach of contract.
We think the statute not penal but remedial. ....
The decree of the District Court must be reversed. The
cause will be remanded there for further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.
.

Reversed.

