OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

275 U. S.

virtue of the responsibilities under which he rests."
Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 440.

The Shively Company stands the same as the other parties
to the tariff. It was engaged in the general towboat business; it towed logs for others as well as for relator; it held
itself out as a common carrier in that line of business, and
by the tariff gave public notice to that effect. Its towboat was devoted to the public use, among other things,
for the transportation of logs. By its own choice, it became a common carrier. Terminal Taxicab Co. v. Kutz,
241 U. S. 252. The State had power to regulate its
charges. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.113. The purpose of
the regulations complained of is to establish reasonable
rates to be charged, and to prevent unjust discrimination,
by public carriers. Such regulations would be of little
value if the state law permitted the shippers by private
contract with public carriers to obtain the towing of their
logs for less than the prescribed rates. Relator was free
to have its logs towed by a private carrier for such compensation as might be agreed and without regard to the
rates established by the Department. The order was not
aimed at any such transaction. It being conceded here
that the charges in question are not excessive, the relator's
contention that the state rate regulation deprives it of its
property in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment has
no foundation.
Judgment affirmed.
MELLON, DIRECTOR GENERAL, v. O'NEIL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 74. Submitted October 26, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.
This Court acquires no jurisdiction to review the judgment of a
state court of last resort on writ of error, unless it affirmatively

MELLON v. O'NEIL.
212

Opinion of the Court.

appears upon the face of the record that a federal question constituting an appropriate ground for such review was presented in
and expressly or necessarily decided by such state court. P. 214.
Writ of Error to 215 App. Div. 766, dismissed; certiorari denied.

to a judgment of the Appellate Division of the
Supreme Court of New York which affirmed a judgment
of the Trial Term. Leave to appeal to the Court of
Appeals was denied.
ERROR

Messrs. Clifton P. Williamson and Herbert S. Ogden
were on the brief for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Nathan BaUin was on the brief for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The record presents a preliminary question as to, our
jurisdiction under the writ of error.
The writ is brought to review a judgment of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of New York,
which affirmed, without opinion, a judgment rendered at
Trial Term against the plaintiff in error, as Agent designated by the President, under the Transportation Act,
1920. 215 App. Div. 766. Leave to appeal to the Court
of Appeals was denied both by the Appellate Division
and by the Court of Appeals; and the judgment of the.
Appellate Division thereby became the final decision of
the highest court of the State in which a decision could
be had.
This judgment was entered after the Jurisdictional
Act of 1925 1 took effect. The only error assigned here
143 Stat. 936, c. 229; printed as an Appendix to the Revised Rules
of this Court, 266 U. S. 687.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

that presents a ground for the writ of error under ยง 237
of the Judicial Code as amended by ยง 1 of this Act, 2 is
that the provisions of the New York Civil Practice Act,
relating to the amendment of process and substitution
of parties, as applied in allowing the substitution of the
predecessor of the plaintiff in error as the party defendant, are invalid because of repugnancy to the laws of the
United States.
The record, however, does not show that this question
was either presented to or passed upon by the Appellate
Division. No reference to the Practice Act or challenge
to its validity appears in the proceedings either at Trial
Term or in the Appellate Division.2
It has long been settled that this Court acquires no
jurisdiction to review the judgment of a state court of
last resort on writ of error, unless it affirmatively appears
upon the face of the record that a federal question constituting an appropriate ground for such review was presented in and expressly or necessarily decided by such
state court. Whitney v. California, 274 U. S. 357, 360;
2 Sec. 237 (a) of the Judicial Code, as thus amended, now provides
that: "A final judgment or decree in any suit in the highest court of a
State in which a decision in the suit could be had, where is drawn in
question the validity of a treaty or statute of the United States, and
the decision is against its validity; or where is drawn in question the
validity of a statute of any State, on the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, and

the decision is in favor of its validity, may be reviewed by the
Supreme Court upon a writ of error."
3 In this respect, the present case is essentially different from Davis
v. Cohen Co., 268 U. S. 638, 640, in which the plaintiff in error had
at the outset challenged the validity of any provisions of the Massachusetts Laws purporting to authorize the proceeding by which he
had been substituted as the party defendant, as being repugnant to
the Transportation Act, and had preserved this objection at every
stage of the case.

WILLCUTS v. MILTON DAIRY CO.
212

Syllabus.

and cases cited. It is not enough that there may be
somewhere hidden in the record a question which if it
had been raised would have been of a federal nature.
Dewey v. Des Moines, 173 U. S. 193, 199; Keokuk &
Hamilton Bridge Co. v. Illinois, 175 U. S. 626, 634; Whitney v. California, supra, 362.
For these reasons the writ of error must be dismissed.
And, regarding the writ, under the Jurisdictional Act, as
a petition for certiorari, it is denied.
Writ of error dismissed for want of jurisdiction;
certioraridenied.
WILLCUTS, COLLECTOR, v. MILTON DAIRY
COMPANY
CERTIORARI TO TIiE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 156.

Argued October 6, 7, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.

Under Revenue Act, 1918, Title III, providing that the "excessprofits" credit of a domestic corporation should "consist of a
specific exemption of $3,000 plus an amount equal to 8 per centum
of the invested capital for the taxable year," (ยง 312) and defining
"invested capital," with certain exceptions, as the actual cash and
cash value of other property bona fide paid in for stock or shares,
at the time of such payment and "(3) Paid-in or earned surplus
and undivided profits; not including surplus and undivided profits
earned during the year." Held, that the term "undivided profits"
is employed in its ordinary meaning of an excess in the aggregate
value of the assets of a corporation over the sum of its liabilities,
including capital stock, so that profits earned by a corporation
which were insufficient to offset an impairment of its paid-in
capital, were not "undivided profits," to be included as "invested
capital" in computing the excess-profits credits allowed by the
Act. P. 218.
8 F. (2d) 178 (D. C.), affirmed.
15 F. (2d) 814 (C.C. A.), reversed.

