JACKSON v. S. S. ARCHIMEDES.
460

Syllabus.

the Government before the court. Davidson v. Payne
(C. C. A.) 289 Fed. 69. The substitution of Davis, the
designated Agent, was not the correction of an error in
the name of the .defendant, but the bringing in of a
different defendant, and was in effect the commencement
of a new and independent proceeding against him to
enforce the liability of the Government. See Davis v.
Cohen Co., 268 U. S. 638, 642; Mellon v. Weiss, 270 U. S.
565, 567. And, as this substitution, being made more
than three years after the cause of action had accrued,
was not a compliance with the requirement of the Transportation Act that the action be brought against the designated Agent within the period of limitation prescribed
by the State statute, the plea should have been sustained
and the suit dismissed.
This conclusion is substantially the same as that in
United States v. Davis (D. C. App.) 8 F. (2d) 907;
Vassau v. Northern Pacific Railway, 69 Mont. 305; Davis
v. Griffith, 103 Okla. 137; and Natoli v. Davis, 75 Cal.
App. 309: contra, Bailey v. Hines, 131 Va. 421.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded to
the Supreme Court of Arkansas for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
JACKSON ET AL. v. S. S. "ARCHIMEDES."
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 103.

Argued December 1, 1927.-Decided January 3, 1928.

1. Section 10 of the Dingley Act of 1884, as amended by the Seamen's
Act of 1915, and the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, does not apply
either expressly or by implication to advance wages paid by foreigr
vessels to foreign seamen while in ports of foreign countries whose
laws sanction such payments. P. 470.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

2. When foreign seamen institute a libel in this country against a
foreign vessel for wages due them, the master is entitled to deduct
the advances made in the foreign country. P. 470.
11 F. (2d) 1000, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

273 U. S. 679, to a decree of the Circuit

Court of Appeals which affirmed a decree of the District
Court, dismissing a libel in rem brought by British seamen for the purpose of collecting full wages without
deduction of advances made in England.
Mr. Silas B. Axtell, with whom Mr. John W. Davis was
on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Roscoe H. Hupper, with whom Messrs. Van Vechten Veeder and William J. Dean were on the brief, for
respondent.
Mr. Howard Thayer Kingsbury, with whom Mr. Frederic R. Coudert was on the brief, as amici curiae by special leave of court, on behalf of the British Embassy.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case presents the question whether § 10 of the
Dingley Act of 1884,' as amended by the Seamen's Act of
1915 ' and the Merchant Marine Act of 1920,' applies to
the payment of advance wages to seamen on a foreign
vessel in a foreign port.
The petitioners are British seamen, who shipped at
Manchester, England, in May, 1922, on the Archimedes,
a British vessel, for a round trip voyage to New York and
return. *When they signed the shipping articles they received advances on account of wages, which were cus123 Stat. 53, c. 121.
2 38 Stat. 1164, c. 153.
3 41 Stat. 988, c. 250; U. S. C., Tit. 46, c. 24.

JACKSON v. S. S. ARCHIMEDES.
Opinion of the Court.

463

tomary and sanctioned by the British law. On June 1,
the vessel arrived in New York. On June 3, they applied
for and received from the master further payments on
account of wages which, with the advances made in England, exceeded one-half of the wages then earned and
unpaid. On June 8, while still in port, they made a formal demand upon the master for one-half of the wages
then earned and unpaid, disregarding the advances made
in England. This having been refused, they left the
vessel and filed this libel in the District Court, claiming
that under R. S. § 45304 they were entitled to the full
wages earned at the time of the demand, without deducting the advances made in England, since these advances
were invalidated by § 10 of the Dingley Act, as amended,
and should be disregarded in computing the amount of
wages due. On the hearing the court dismissed the libel
on the ground that the Act does not prohibit advances to
seamen on foreign vessels in foreign ports, and such advances cannot be treated as invalid and disregarded when
wages are demanded in this country. 10 F. (2d) 234.
This was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals on the
opinion of the District Judge. 11 F. (2d) 1000.
4 This section was amended by § 31 of the Merchant Marine Act
so as to read as follows: "Every seaman on a vessel of the United
States shall be entitled to receive on demand from the master ...
one-half part of the balance of his wages earned and remaining unpaid
at the time when such demand is made at every port where such vessel
...shall load or deliver cargo before the voyage is ended, and all
stipulations in the contract to the contrary shall be void: Provided,
Such a demand shall not be made before the expiration of, nor
oftener than once in, five days nor more than once in the same harbor
on the same entry. Any failure on the part of the master to comply
with this demand shall release the seaman from his contract and he

shall be entitled to full payment of wages earned ....

And provided

further, That this section shall apply to seamen on foreign vessels
while in harbors of the United States, and the courts of the United
States shall be open to such seamen for its enforcement."
83583 -28-30

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

To understand rightly the effect of the amendment
made by the Merchant Marine Act of 1920-the controlling question in this case-it is necessary to consider
first the amendment previously made by the Seamen's
Act of 1915 and the decisions by this Court in reference
thereto.
By § 11 of the Seamen's Act, Section 10 of the Dingley
Act was amended so as to read as follows:
"Sec. 10 (a). That it shall be . . . unlawful in any
case to pay any seaman wages in advance of the time
when he has actually earned the same. . . .Any person
violating any of the foregoing provisions of this section
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine . . . and may also be
imprisoned. . . The payment of such advance wages
. . . shall in no case except as herein provided absolve the
vessel or the master . . . from the full payment of wages
after the same shall have been actually earned, and shall
be no defense to a libel suit or action for the recovery of
such wages ...
"(e) That this section shall apply as well to foreign
vessels while in waters of the United States, as to vessels of the United States, and any master . . . of any
foreign vessel who has violated its provisions shall be
liable to the same penalty that the master . . . of a vessel of the United States would be for similar violation.
The master . . . of any vessel of the United States, or of
any foreign vessel seeking clearance from a port of the
United States, shall present his shipping articles at the
office of clearance, and no clearance shall be granted any
such vessel unless the provisions of this section have been
complied with."
It was held by this Court in Sandberg v. McDonald, 248
U. S. 185, 195 (1918), that § 11 of the Seamen's Act did
not render invalid the contracts of foreign seamen as to
the advance payment of wages made by a foreign vessel

JACKSON v. S. S. ARCHIMEDES.
463

Opinion of the Court.

in a foreign country in which the law sanctioned such contract and payment; and that when they made demand in
this country for the payment of half wages, the master
was entitled to deduct the advances made in the foreign
country. In so holding, the Court said:
"Conceding for the present purpose that Congress
might have legislated to annul such contracts as a
condition upon which foreign vessels might enter the
ports of the United States, it is to be noted, that
such sweeping and important requirement is not found
specifically made in the statute. Had Congress intended to make void such contracts and payments a
few words would have stated that intention, not leaving
such an important regulation to be gathered from implication. There is nothing to indicate an intention, so far as
the language of the statute is concerned, to control such
matters otherwise than in the ports of the United States.
The statute makes the payment of advance wages unlawful and affixes penalties for its violation, and provides
that such advancements shall in no cases, except as in the
act provided, absolve the master from full payment after
the wages are earned, and shall be no defense to a libel
or suit for wages. How far was this intended to apply to
foreign vessels? We find the answer if we look to the
language of the act itself. It reads that this section shall
apply to foreign vessels 'while in waters of the United
States.'
"Legislation is presumptively territorial and confined
to limits over which the law-making power has jurisdiction. American Banana, Co. v. United Fruit Co., 213
U. S. 347, 357. . . . We think that there is nothing in
this section to show that Congress intended to take over
the control of such contracts and payments as to foreign
vessels except while they were in our ports. Congress
could not prevent the making of such contracts in other
jurisdictions. If they saw fit to do so, foreign countries

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

would continue to permit such contracts and advance payments no matter what our declared law or policy in regard
to them might be as to vessels coming to our ports.
"In the same section, which thus applies the law to foreign vessels while in waters of the United States, it is provided that the master . . . of any such vessel, who
violates the provisions of the act, shall be liable to the
same penalty as would be persons of like character in respect to a vessel of the United States. This provision
seems to us of great importance as evidencing the legislative intent to deal civilly and criminally with matters in
our own jurisdiction. Congress certainly did not intend
to punish criminally acts done within a foreign jurisdiction; a purpose so wholly futile is not to be attributed to
Congress. United States v. Freeman, 239 U. S.117, 120.
The criminal provision strengthens the presumption that
Congress intended to deal only with acts committed within
the jurisdiction of the United States."
On the same day, in Neilson v. Rhine Shipping Co., 248
U. S. 205, it was likewise held, upon the same general
considerations, that the Seamen's Act of 1915 did not
make invalid advances that had been made to seamen by
the master of an American vessel in a foreign port.
And later, in Strathearn S. S. Co. v. Dillon, 252 U. S.
348, 355 (1920), in distinguishing § 4 of the Seamen's
Act-which in express terms declared that contracts denying seamen the right to demand half of their earned wages
at ports reached in the course of a voyage, should be void,
and gave seamen on foreign vessels while in American
harbors the right to enforce its provisions in the courts of'
the United States '--from § 11 of the Act dealing with advance wages, this Court said: "In the case of Sandberg v.
5The provisions in § 4 of the Seamen's Act, which had amended
R. S. § 4530, were the same in these respects as in the amendment
made by the Merchant Marine Act which is set forth in Note 4,
supra.

JACKSON v. S. S. ARCHIMEDES.
463

Opinion of the Court.

McDonald . .
we found no purpose manifested by
Congress in § 11 to interfere with wages advanced in foreign ports under contracts legal where made. That sction dealt with advancements, and contained no provision
such as we find in § 4. Under § 4 all contracts are avoided
which run counter to the purposes of the statute.
Whether consideration for contractual rights under engagements legally made in foreign countries would suggest a different course is not our province to inquire. It
is sufficient to say that Congress has otherwise declared
"
by the positive terms of this enactment.
The libelants concede that under § 11 of the Seamen's
Act, as interpreted by this Court in the Sandberg case, it
would have been necessary to deduct the advances that
had been made in England in computing the wages due
them when the demand was made in this country, but
insist that the law was thereafter changed in this respect
by the amendment made by the Merchant Marine Act of
1920.
By § 32 of the Merchant Marine Act, Section 10 of the
Dingley Act was further amended so as to make the third
sentence of paragraph (a) dealing generally with advance
payments, read as follows: "The payment of such advance wages . . . whether made within or without
the United States or territory subject to the jurisdiction
thereof, shall in no case except as herein provided absolve
the vessel or the master
. .
from the full payment
of wages after the same shall have been actually earned,
and shall be no defense to a libel suit or action for the
recovery of such wages." This amendment made no
change in any other part of paragraph (a), or in paragraph (e) referring to foreign vessels, which remained in
full force.
The libelants contend that in making this amendment
Congress intended to meet the effect of the decisions in
both the Sandberg and Neilson cases, and to extend the

OCTOBER, TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

prohibition of advance wages to foreign vessels in foreign
ports, as well as to American vessels in foreign ports.
We cannot sustain this contention. That this amendment expressed no intention" to extend the provisions of
the statute to advance payments made by foreign vessels
while in foreign ports, is plain. This Court had pointed
out in the Sandberg case that such a sweeping provision
was not specifically made in the statute, and that had Congress so intended, "a few words would have stated that
intention, not leaving such an important regulation to
be gathered from implication." . The amendment, nevertheless, not only contained no such specific statement, but
made no reference whatever to foreign vessels;-left unchanged and in full force all of paragraph (e) which alone
referred to foreign vessels, including the specific provision
which, as held in the Sandberg case, indicated that the
prohibition of advance wages was intended to apply
to foreign vessels, only while in waters of the United
States;-made no change in the criminal provisions which
strengthened the presumption that Congress intended to
deal only with acts committed within the jurisdiction of
the United States ;-and merely inserted the phrase
"whether made within or without the United States or
territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof" in paragraph
(a) which made no reference to foreign vessels. This
phrase, read in the light of the context, is given full effect
when applied to American vessels; and thus construed is
entirely consistent with the provision in paragraph (e)
relating to foreign vessels while in American waters. In
short, the language of the amendment indicates no intention to extend the prohibition of the statute to advance
wages paid by foreign vessels while in foreign ports. Nor
can such an intention be "gathered from implication," or
from anything in the legislative history of the amendment,
in which no reference was made to foreign vessels.
Affirmed.
The decree is

