OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

275 U. S.

of Congress to provide any reasonable system for the collection of taxes and the recovery of them when illegal,
without a jury trial-if only the injunction against the
taking of property without due process of law in the
method of collection and protection of the taxpayer is
satisfied. Murray'sLessee v. Hoboken Land and Improvement Co., 18 How. 272, 281, 282, 284; Nichols v. United
States, 7 Wall. 122, 127; Cheatham v. United States, 92
U. S. 85, 88, 89.
The judgments, both of the Circuit Court. of Appeals
and of the District Court, are reversed, and the cause is.
remanded to the District Court for further proceedings.
Reversed.
SEGUROLA ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 195.

Argued October 12, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.

1. Under the Organic Act of Porto Rico an accused person is entitled
to have a copy of the information free of clerk's fees. P. 109.
2. Refusal to furnish the copy free is harmless when the accused,
attended by counsel, waived the reading of the information and
pleaded not guilty. P. 110.
3. Where evidence of a search and seizure of intoxicating liquor,
including the liquor itself, clearly proved defendants guilty of
illegal transportation, and was introduced without objection to the
search and seizure, refusal to require a police officer on crossexamination to give the name of the person from whom he obtained information leading to the search, and refusal to sustain a
motion to suppress the liquor as evidence upon the ground that the
search and seizure were illegal, were not prejudicial. P. 111.
4. In a prosecution for transporting intoxicating liquor, the objection
that the liquor was obtained by a search and seizure instituted
without warrant or probable cause comes too late when raised for
the first time after the liquor has been offered in evidence and

admitted. P. 111.
16 F. (2d) 563, affirmed.

SEGUROLA v. UNITED STATES.
106

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI, 274 U. S. 729, to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed the conviction of
the petitioners, in the District Court of the United States
for Porto Rico, of the offense of transporting intoxicating liquors in violation of the National Prohibition Act.

Mr. E. B. Wilcox, with whom Mr. Salvador Mestre was
on the brief, for petitioners.
Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan, with
whom Solicitor General Mitchell and Messrs. Bethuel M.
Webster, Jr., and Ralston R. Irvine, Special Assistants to
the Attorney General, were on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Courf.
This is a review of a sentence against the petitioners
upon a criminal information, filed in the District Court of
the United States for Porto Rico, charging in the first
count possession, and in the second count transportation,
of intoxicating liquors in violation of the National Prohibition Act. The conviction on the possession count was
set aside by the Circuit Court of Appeals, so that only the
second count is here involved. Upon arraignment, petitioners waived a reading of the information and pleaded
not guilty. Their counsel thereupon requested that they
be furnished with a copy of the information free of charge.
The request was denied by the court and an exception
noted, the trial court stating that the defendants and their
counsel were free to examine the information and to make
copies themselves, or have the clerk make them on payment of his fee.
At the trial, Alfonso Ceballos, Chief of Police at Carolina, Porto Rico, testified for the prosecution. that, having
received a confidential telephone message that Segurola
was driving a Buick automobile with a load of liquor from

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

Luquillo to Loiza, he procured one Ismael Colon to drive
him in a Ford car out to a point on the road where he
awaited the appearance of the Buick machine; that when
that car appeared, he tried to intercept it by obstructing
the road with the Ford, but Segurola operated his Buick
so as to force the Ford aside, by threat of a collision, and
went by at high speed; that the officer was in uniform,
which Segurola must have observed; that he followed in
the Ford into Carolina, where, owing to obstacles encountered by the Buick, he managed to get around in front of
it, and when Segurola saw his way blocked by the Ford,
he stopped the Buick, put it in reverse, and crashed into
an electric wire post; that Ceballos then arrested Segurola,.
as well as Santiago, who was sitting beside him, and that
a search by Ceballos of the rear compartment of the Buick,
which was a roadster, disclosed a number of sacks containing bottles of whiskey, brandy, and gin.
In the cross-examination, Ceballos was asked who gave
him the information by telephone. Counsel for the Government objected that " they are the secrets of the police
force, which should not be stated in a court of justice, and
the stating of the source of such information would be
against public policy." The objection was sustained and
an exception noted. Evidence was given of the alcoholic
content of the liquor and the identity of that examined
with that seized. When the liquor was offered and received in evidence, it was objected to on the ground that
it had not been properly identified, but the objection was
overruled and the liquor admitted. Thereafter, counsel
for the defendants moved to suppress the liquor, as evidence, on the ground that the search was without a warrant and did not appear to have been made upon probable
cause, and, also, for the reason that, upon the issue of
probable cause, *defendants were not permitted to crossexamine the seizing officer as to the 'person from whom he

SEGUROLA v. UNITED STATES.
106

Opinion of the Court.

received by telephone the information which induced him
to go to look for the Buick car. The motion was overruled.
No objection was ever made to the evidence of the officers
and others that liquor was found in the car and no evidence to dispute these facts was offered by the defense.
At the close of the trial the jury found the defendants
guilty as charged and the Court sentenced them to pay
fines.
The case was carried upon writ of error to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. 16 Fed. (2d) 563.
That Court affirmed the judgment, holding that the refusal to furnish a copy of the information without payment of a fee to the clerk was right and, even if erroneous, was, under the circumstances, a harmless error; that
the refusal to permit cross-examination of the officer as to
his informant in respect to the coming of Segurola and
the contents of his car was in accord with approved public
policy and that the circumstances constituted probable
cause for a legal seizure.
The error assigned to the failure to direct the delivery
of a copy of the information rests on the second section
of the Organic Act of Porto Rico,-Act of March 2, 1917,
c. 145, 39 Stat. 951, U. S. C., Title 48, ยง 737, in which it is
provided that "in all criminal prosecutions the accused
shall enjoy the right to have the assistance of counsel for
his defense, to be informed of the nature and cause of the
accusation, to have a copy thereof, to have a speedy and
public trial, to be confronted with the witnesses against
him, and to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor." The district judge held that this did
not mean that the defendant was to have a copy of the
information without paying the regular copying fees to
the clerk. We think this was an erroneous construction
of the statute. It was enacted by Congress to apply in a
country where there were two languages, and in which a

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

criminal procedure, new in some of its aspects, was to be
put into effect. It was not strange, therefore, that it was
thought necessary ex industria to emphasize the means by
which the accused could be advised of the charge made
against him. These circumstances make the case of
United States v. VanDuzee, 140 U. S. 169, 172, relied on
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, inapplicable. The words
do not appear in the analogous provisions of the guaranty
of the rights of the accused in our Constitution. They
should be given some real effect and the opportunity thus
conferred to read the charge upon which the accused is
brought into court should not be obstructed by the necessity for paying fees for its enjoyment. We think, therefore, that the court was wrong in not directing that a copy
be furnished to each defendant. But that is very different from saying that because of the failure of the court to
issue this order, the trial which ensued should be held for
naught and a new trial had. As a matter of fact, the
petitioners, when attended by counsel, waived a reading
of the information and pleaded not guilty, which was an
indication that they already knew what the information
was and that they really suffered no prejudice which
would justify a new trial. We agree with the Circuit
Court of Appeals in its conclusion that in any view the
error was a harmless one.
The questions which have been chiefly argued here are,
first, the correctness of the refusal of the court to allow
the police officer to be cross-examined as to the name of
the person who communicated to him the information
that the defendants were engaged in transporting liquor
in a Buick car; and, second, the question of the existence
of probable cause to justify the seizure of the automobile
under the circumstances shown.
We think that these two questions do not arise, and
that the judgment should be affirmed, without regard to
the proper answer to them. The results of the search

SEGUROLA v. UNITED STATES.
106

Opinion of the Court.

and seizure were shown by the testimony of the chief of
police and of the other witnesses without any objection
on behalf of the defendants; and thus was disclosed the
fact that the defendants had been engaged in transporting a large amount of liquor in the Buick. No motion
was made to strike that evidence out, and no evidence
was introduced to contradict what was disclosed by the
statements of the chief of police and other witnesses upon
this point. The only objection made toward the close
of the evidence for the Government was that, when it
was proposed to introduce the liquor, it had not been
properly identified, but there was ample evidence to show
that it had. The motion made thereafter to suppress
the liquor as evidence, on the ground that there had been
an illegal search, did not include a motion to strike out
the evidence of the witnesses as to what occurred when
the car was stopped. The objection to the seizure was
plainly an after thought.
As there was no evidence introduced by the defendants
to refute or deny the testimony unobjected to, which
clearly showed the illegal transportation of the liquor
and sustained the verdict, the admission in evidence of
the liquor and the refusal to permit cross-examination of
Ceballos worked no prejudice for which a reversal can be
granted. Moreover, the principle laid down by this Court
-in Adams v. New York, 192 U. S. 585, and recognized as
proper in Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383, 395, and
in Marronv. United States, post, p. 192, applies to render
unavailing, under the circumstances of this case, the
objection to the use of the liquor as evidence based on
the Fourth Amendment. This principle is that, except
where there has been no opportunity to present the
matter in advance of trial, Gouled v. United States, 255
U. S. 298, 305; Amos v. United States, 255 U. S. 313, 316;
Agnello v. United States, 269 U. S. 20, 34, a court, when
engaged in trying a criminal case, will not take notice of

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

the manner in which witnesses have possessed themselves
of papers or other articles of personal property, which are
material and properly offered in evidence, because the
court will not in trying a criminal cause permit a collateral issue to be raised as to the source of competent
evidence. To- pursue it would be to halt in the orderly
progress of a cause and consider incidentally a question
which has happened to cross the path of such litigation
and which is wholly independent of it. In other words,
in order to raise the question of illegal seizure, and an
absence of probable cause in that seizure, the defendants
should have moved to have the whiskey and other liquor
returned to themas their property and as not subject to
seizure or use as evidence. To preserve their rights under
the Fourth Amendment, they must at least have seasonably objected to the production of the liquor in court.
This they did not do, but waited until the liquor had been
offered and admitted and then for the first time raised
the question of legality of seizure and probable cause as
a ground for withdrawing the liquor from consideration
of the jury. This was too late.
On behalf of Santiago, the companion of Segurola in
the Buick, it is urged that there was no evidence to justify
his conviction and that his is a case of poor dog Tray.
He accompanied Segurola from Luquillo to Carolina and
in the race of cars which occurred on that trip.. There
were 188 bottles of liquor lying loose in eleven sacks in
a box back of the seat under him in the Buick. He could
hardly have been unconscious of their presence. The seizing officer said that Santiago was present and saw the
liquor as seized. But Santiago testified that he didn't see
the liquor and did not know why he and his companion
were being taken to the station. In view of the jar of the
collision of the Buick with the electric wire post and the
exciting race between the cars and the contradicting evidence of the government witnesses, the jury evidently

SIMMONS v. SWAN.

113

Syllabus.

106

thought that Santiago protested too much and had destroyed his credibility. We can not say that there was no
evidence to sustain their verdict.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
SIMMONS v. SWAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 65. Argued October 24, 1927-Decided November 21, 1927.
1. In an action on a contract, objection that a waiver or excuse of
legal tender should have been pleaded, is not open on review if not
raised below. P. 115.
2. A contract for the sale of property called for a down payment by
check, which was made, other payments by notes with some mortgage security and a payment of $2,500 to be made on or before a
date specified, which was the last day for performance of the contract, time being declared of the essence. The parties met on that
day, at the place specified in the contract, the other papers were
signed and ready, and the vendee then tendered the $2,500 in the
form of a certificate of deposit on a near-by bank of unquestioned
solvency, but the vendor, though some days before he had requested
a check in lieu of one of the notes, refused the certificate because
he "had not got to take it" and, saying "good night," left the meeting. Owing to the tardiness of defendant in arriving, banks were
closed and the vendee could not get legal tender till the next day.
The value of the property had risen greatly since the execution of
the contract and there was -reason to believe that the vendor
wished to escape from his bargain. In an action by the vendee for
breach of the contract, held:
(1) In such circumstances and in view of the way of modern
business, the jury might find it was natural and reasonable for the
vendee to suppose that the certificate of deposit would be enough.
P. 116.
(2) If the vendor, without previous notice, demanded strict
legal tender, the vendee was entitled, at least, to a reasonable opportunity-i. e., until the next day-to tender it. Id.
83583-28-

8

