OCTOBEAR TERM, 1927.

440

1 Syllabus.

275 U. S.

AETNA INSURANCE COMPANY v. HYDE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 112.

Argued December 2, 1927.-Decided January 3, 1928.

Rates of all the stock fire insurance companies doing business in
Missouri having been reduced uniformly upon consideration en
masse of their earnings and a finding of an excessive aggregate
profit, as provided in § 6283, Rev. Stats. Mo. 1919, they sued
jointly in the state courts to obtain judicial review of that determination upon the ground that the aggregate profits were not excessive and that the aggregate collections permitted under the
reduced rates were so low as to be confiscatory in violation of the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. But they did
not challenge the constitutionality of the statute if construed, as
they contended it should be, to require the superintendent to make
his determination on the basis of premiums earned and losses and
expenses incurred, and not on the basis of premiums received and
losses and expenses paid.
Held:
1. Rates fixed by state authority on the basis of aggregate collections of competing fire insurance companies doing business in
the State and which afford just compensation to some of them but
not to others, cannot be attacked by the former under the Fourteenth Amendment upon the ground that they are confiscatory as
applied to the latter; nor may the latter prevent their enforcement against the former because of their inability to compete
successfully if their own rates were increased. P. 446.
2. State-made rates do not violate the Fourteenth Amendment
merely because aggregate collections are not sufficient to yield a
reasonable profit or just compensation to all companies that happen
to be engaged in the affected business. P. 447.
3. Rates will be set aside as confiscatory only in clear cases;
and the burden is on the one seeking that relief to bring forward
the invalidating facts. P. 447.
4. The facts relied on to restrain enforcement of such rates
should be specifically set forth, and from them it should clearly
appear that the rates would deny to plaintiff just compensation
and deprive it of its property without due process of law. P. 447.
5. The complaint does not allege facts to show that the rates
were confiscatory as to any company; and it fails to show any

AETNA INSURANCE CO. v. HYDE.
440

441

Opinion of the Court.

joint interest or right in or to the business covered by the rates
or the protection sought to be invoked, or that the Missouri business of each of the companies is so well and economically carried
on that all are entitled, as of right protected by the Constitution,
to have premiums amounting in the aggregate enough to yield a
reasonable return or profit to all the companies on all the business
carried on; it does not state a federal question. P. 448.
6. Quare, Whether upon any state of facts, petitioners would
be entitled jointly to the constitutional protection invoked. P. 448.
Writ to review 315 Mo. 113, dismissed.
CERTIORARI,

273 U. S. 681, to a decree of the Supreme

Court of Missouri, which reversed a decree' setting aside
an order reducing the rates of the plaintiff fire insurance
companies.
Mr. Charles Evans Hughes, with whom Messrs. Robert
J. Folonie, Wm.S. Hogsett, Ashley Cockrill and John S.
Leahy were on the brief, for petitioners.
Messrs. John T. Barker and Floyd E. Jacobs, with
whom Mr. North T. Gentry was on the brief, for respondent.
MR.JUSTIcF, BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
October 9, 1922, respondent, acting under § 6283, Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1919, made findings of fact and
an order directing a reduction of ten per cent. in the rates
charged by stock companies for fire, lightning, hail and
windstorm insurance. The petitioners, 156 companies,
were all the stock fire insurance companies engaged in that
business in Missouri. November 10, 1922, they brought
this suit under § 6284 praying that the order be reviewed
and set aside. The complaint challenges the methods employed by respondent to make the calculations provided
for and alleges that the findings and order are unreasonable, confiscatory, and in contravention of the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Issue was joined

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

and a trial was had. The circuit court, confirming the report of a referee appointed to hear the evidence and report
his findings of fact and conclusions of law, found the order
unreasonable and confiscatory and entered a decree setting
it aside. The Supreme Court reversed and dismissed the
case. 315 Mo. 113. This court granted a writ of certiorari. 273 U. S. 681.
Respondent insists that the case presents no federal
question. In order to determine whether that contention
has merit, it is necessary to examine the statutory provisions under which the respondent made the findings and
order complained of, the grounds on which petitioners seek
to have them set aside, and the decision of the Supreme
Court.
Section 6283, as it was at the time the order was made,'
provided that the superintendent of insurance " is hereby
empowered to investigate the necessity for a reduction of
rates, and if, upon such investigation, it appears that the
result of the earnings in this state of the stock fire insurance companies for five years next preceding such investigation shows there has been an aggregate profit therein
in excess of what is reasonable, he shall order such reduction of rates as shall be necessary to limit the aggregate
collections by insurance companies in this state to not
more than a reasonable profit.
"
Section 6284, as it stood when this suit was commenced,
provided: " The orders and directions of the superintendent of insurance, together with his findings or determinations of facts upon which such order or determination
is founded, shall be reviewable by a proper action in the
courts, and upon such review the entire matter shall be
treated and determined de novo. . . ." This section
was amended before the trial. Laws of 1923, p. 235. The
1 This

section has since been amended. Laws 1923, p. 235.

AETNA INSURANCE CO. v. HYDE.
440

Opinion of the Court.

following was added: "The court shall have authority to
sustain, set aside or modify the orders and directions under
review."
The complaint alleges that the rates were not excessive
before the reduction; that each company has local agency
plants in Missouri ranging in value from $10,000 in case
of small companies having but few agencies to $50,000
for larger companies having many, and that the good will
of the agencies of each is of great value; that in Missouri
normal expenses of each are from 35 to 45 per cent. of
earned premiums and the yearly aggregate of all expenses
is approximately 42 per cent. of all earned premiums,
but that in the five year period ending with 1921 total expenses amounted to about 44 per cent. of all premiums
earned for insurance written in that period; that, in accordance with Missouri law, each company maintains a
sum equal to its unearned premiums; that each should
also have a surplus over its capital stock of three per cent.
of its premiums on fire insurance policies in each year to
meet the hazards of conflagration 2 and of ten per cent. of
other premiums against the risk of other catastrophes; and
that each company is entitled to earn annually an underwriting profit of at least five per cent. of the earned
premiums; that such profit for any period is the amount of
premiums earned less losses and expenses incurred; that
in the five year period ending with 1921 the combined experience of all companies on all classes of insurance in
Missouri was: losses incurred, 64.9 per cent. of earned
premiums, expenses incurred, 44.4 per cent., making a total
of 109.3 per cent., without any allowance for a fund to
meet conflagration and catastrophe hazards or for profits
to the companies.
2 The referee reported that a conflagration is any loss in excess of
$1,000,000, and that it is customary to charge that amount of the loss
against the State in which it occurs, and prorate the remainder among
all the States.

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

And the complaint shows that prior to the order here
in question and on January 5, 1922, the superintendent
made an order reducing rates 15 per cent. The companies
sued him to enjoin its enforcement. The parties entered
into a stipulation reciting that he had revoked the order
and agreeing that the case be dismissed. And it was
stated therein that the superintendent, not earlier than
March 15, 1922, might call a hearing to investigate the
necessity for a reduction of rates; that at such hearing the
experience of the companies in Missouri for 1921 should
be offered in evidence and considered by the superintendent, together with such other evidence as might be offered;
that at the conclusion of the hearings the superintendent would make certain findings of fact and announce his
determination. And the stipulation contained the folowing: "That if . . an order reducing the rates
the said insurance companies, if disbe made
satisfied .
will proceed to secure a review thereof by
the trial de novo in the Circuit court of Cole County,
Missouri... ..
That in such matter the question of
the constitutionality of §§ 6283 and 6284 . . . shall
not be raised, nor shall the legality of the hearing above
provided for be questioned."
And the complaint alleges that there was a hearing at
which the companies performed their part of the agreement, but that the superintendent failed to make the findings specified in the stipulation. The order (set forth in
the bill) stated that the companies refused to supply
necessary data to enable the superintendent to make such
findings, and that his investigation was based on sworn
reports filed by the companies during the five-year period.
The findings contained in the order are that, in respect
of the business in Missouri, the companies in that period
collected net premiums amounting to $81,067,318, interest
on capital and surplus prorated to that State $2,801,660

AETNA INSURANCE CO. v. HYDE.
440

445

Opinion of the Court.

and interest on unearned premium reserves $2,418,596
making a total of $86,287,574; that they paid losses of
$45,066,124; that expenses amounted to $32,534,617 leaving $8,686,833 profits, and that expenses were excessive
by not less than $5,000,000. The order declared that the
rates then in force produced excessive arid unreasonable
profits and that a reduction of ten per cent. in the existing
rates would result in profits that are reasonable. And it
directed that rates so reduced take effect November 15,
1922.
The complaint avers that if § 6283 be construed to
authorize the superintendent of insurance to take into
account interest on earnings, capital stock, surplus and
unearned premium reserves or to make his determination
of profit or loss on the basis of premiums received and
losses and expenses paid-as distinguished from premiums
earned and losses and expenses incurred,-or if it be held
to authorize the superinitendent to regulate the expenses
of the companies or the inspection of their risks or the
amount of insurance they may write, then the section
would violate the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. And it charges that the methods and calculations employed and the findings of fact made by the
superintendent are erroneous, unreasonable and unjust;
that the prescribed rates are unreasonable, inadequate and
confiscatory, and that the enforcement of the order would
operate to deprive the petitioners and each of them of
their property without due process of law.
By his answer, the superintendent denies the allegations
of fact and challenges the grounds on which petitioners
contend that the findings and order are repugnant to the
Fourteenth Amendment.
The Supreme Court considered the evidence and held
that the order reducing rates was justified. It did not
pass upon petitioners' contentions that their rights safe-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

guarded by the Fourteenth Amendment had been or would
be infringed by the state law or by the superintendent's
findings and order.
It will be observed that here the controversy concerns
the basis on which the findings were to be made, and that
petitioners do hot challenge the constitutionality of the
statute if construed, as they contend it should be, to
require the superintendent to make his determinations
on the basis of premiums earned and losses and expenses
incurred. Unlike the general power to prescribe insurance premiums conferred by the Kansas statute upheld in
German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Kansas, 233 U. S. 389, the
Missouri statute before us narrowly limits the authority
of the superintendent of insurance. He is not authorized
to determine whether, when applied to the Missouri business of the several companies or of any of them, the
existing or prescribed rates had been or would be just and
reasonable. Section 6283 requires consideration en masse
of the "result of the earnings" of all the companies, and,
upon finding an excessive "aggregate profit," it becomes
the duty of the superintendent to limit the "aggregate
collections" to not more than a reasonable profit. The
reduced rates are applicable to the business of all companies alike and without regard to the amount of the past
or prospective profits or losses of any of them. And the
attack is by joint action of all the companies. It is not
claimed by or on behalf of any company that, when
applied to its business, the reduced rates are or would be
too low to permit the company to make a reasonable
profit or to have just compensation for its contracts of
insurance.
No company receiving just compensation is entitled to
have higher rates merely because of the plight of its less
fortunate competitors. Companies whose constitutional
rights are not infringed may not better their position 15y
urging the cause of others. Supervisors v. Stanley, 105

AETNA INSURANCE CO. v. HYDE.
440

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 305, 311; Heald v. District of Columbia, 259 U. S.
114, 123. As a practical matter of business, it is impossible in the long run for some companies to collect higher
premiums than those charged by others in the same territory. Rates sufficient to yield adequate returns to some
may be confiscatory when applied to the business of
others. But the latter have no constitutional right to
prevent their enforcement against the former. The Fourteenth Amendment does not protect against competition.
Moreover, "aggregate collections" sufficient to yield a
reasonable profit for all do not necessarily give to each
just compensation for the contracts of insurance written
by it. It has never been and cannot reasonably be held
that state-made rates violate the Fourteenth Amendment
merely because the aggregate collections are not sufficient
to yield a reasonable profit or just compensation to all
companies that happen to be engaged in the affected
business.
The complaint was framed to secure judicial review
(§ 6284) of the determination of the respondent. The
ground of attack was that the aggregate profits were not
excessive and that the aggregate collections permitted under the reduced rates were too low. Allegations asserting
in general language that the findings, order and reduced
rates are confiscatory and repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment are not sufficient. In order to invoke the
constitutional protection, the facts relied on to restrain
the enforcement of rates prescribed under the sanction of
state law must be specifically set forth, and from them it
must clearly appear that the rates would necessarily deny
to the plaintiff just compensation and deprive it of its
property without due process of law. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Garrett, 231 U. S. 298, 314; Atlantic
Coast Line v. Florida,203 U. S. 256. Jurisdiction of this
Court to set aside state-made rates as confiscatory will be
exercised only in clear cases. And the burden is on one

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

seeking that relief to bring forward and satisfactorily
prove the invalidating facts. Chicago, &c. Ry. Co. v.
Wellman, 143 U. S. 339, 344-345; San Diego, Land &
Town Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S. 439, 441, 446; Knoxville v.
Water Co., 212 U. S. 1, 8, 16; The Minnesota Rate Cases,
230 U. S. 352, 433, 452; Brush Elec. Co. v. Galveston, 262
U. S. 443, 446. Neither of the sections authorized a determination of the reasonableness of rates when applied to
the business of any company. The complaint did not
allege any facts to show that the reduced rates were confiscatory as to any company. The court was not called
upon to determine whether the order would operate to
deprive any company of its property without due process
of law. It treated the suit as one to obtain the review
provided for by § 6284.
The petitioners are competitors and each carries on
business for itself. While they may by joint action pursue the remedy given by § 6284, it does not follow that
the Constitution safeguards aggregate profits sufficient to
constitute just compensation for all the companies. The
complaint fails to show any joint interest or right in or to
the business covered by the rates or the protection sought
to be invoked. And it fails to show that the business in
Missouri of each is so well and econo-mically organized
and carried on that petitioners are entitled, as of right
protected by the Constitution, to have premiums amounting in the aggregate enough to yield a reasonable return
or profit to all the companies. Assuming that, upon any
state of facts, the petitioners would be entitled jointly to
have such protection, and as to that no opinion is expressed, it is enough to say that the facts brought forward
in this case are not sufficient to raise the question whether
the state law or the superintendent's finding of facts or his
order is repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. No federal question is presented.
Writ dismissed.

