BOTHWELL v. BUCKBEE, MEARS CO.
274

271)

Opinion of the Court.

Trust Co. v. Grosman, 245 U. S. 412, 416; Grell v. Levy,

16 C. B. (N. S.) 73.
It is suggested that under a Maryland statute the petitioners are not mere equity receivers but quasi-assignees,
and that this places them on a different footing from that
which the insurance company would have occupied if the

suit had been brought by it.

In support of this conten-

tion, the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution

and cases such as Converse v. Hamilton, 224 U. S. 243,
are invoked.

But the Maryland statute was not set up

in the state courts, and as they did not take judicial notice
of it, it will not be noticed here. Hanley v. Donoghue,
116 U. S. 1; Gasquet v. Lapeyre, 242 U. S. 367, 371. For
this and other reasons we have no occasion to enquire
into its effect.
Affirmed.

NEW MEXICO v. TEXAS.
IN EQUITY.

No. 2, Original, Argued December 2, 1924-Decided December 5,
1927.
1. A copy of memoranda and field notes of a survey of part of the
boundary between Mexico and Texas, made in 1852 by a Mexican
engineer by order of the Mexican Member of the Joint Boundary
Commission, under the Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo, was admissible in evidence upon authentication by the Mexican Boundary
Commissioner having custody of the original. P. 296.
2. A motion, by the party who produced it, to strike out an authenticated copy, accompanied by evidence adduced to prove that the
party had been mistaken in believing that there was any original
in the place from which the authentication was made, comes too
late, when deferred until the day when the taking of testimony is
closed by mutual agreement, two years after the copy was introduced by the opposite party and treated by both sides as evidence
in the case. P. 297.
3. The New Mexico-Texas boundary, in the area involved in this suit,
is the middle of the main channel of th3 Rio Grande, as that river

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

275 U. S.

flowed in 1850, extending southwardly from the 32d parallel of
North Latitude to the parallel of 31 degrees, 47 minutes in the
course and location found and described in Section V (1) of the
report of the Special Master in this case; the intersection of the
east bank of the river with the 32d parallel is to be taken at a
point 600 feet west from Monument No. 1 of Clark's Survey on that
parallel made in and after 1859 in locating the Texas-United States
boundary, as said monument No. 1 was reestablished by Joint
Commissioners of the United States and Texas, appointed pursuant
to a Joint Resolution of Congress passed in February, 1911; and
the middle line of the channel is to be taken 150 feet from the
east and west banks of the river respectively, as found by the
Special Master. P. 303.
In arriving at this conclusion, the Court finds and decides as
follows:
4. That the testimony of ancient witnesses called by New Mexico as
to their recollection of the old river, is far from satisfactory, and
does not, in view of the other evidence, sustain the burden resting
on New Mexico of proving her claim that the location was farther
east than the one claimed by Texas and found in this case. P. 300.
5. That the greater weight of the evidence shows that Clark's Monument No. 1. did not coincide with his Station 1, but was located at
least 2783 feet west thereof, substantially as reestablished by the Joint
Commission of the United States and Texas above mentioned.
P. 300.
6. That under the Joint Resolutions of February and August, 1911,
preceding and conditioning the admission of New Mexico as a State,
she is bound by the restablishment of the Monument by the Commission and cannot question its accuracy.
Id.
7. That this necessarily extends the Clark boundary line along the
32d parallel to the east bank of the river, at a point 600 feet west
of the reestablished Monument. Id.
8. That according to the. greater weight of the evidence, the river,
in 1850, ran, as shown by certain surveys, patents and maps relied
on by Texas, on the course and in the location set forth and described in the Special Master's report. Id.
9. That this conclusion is reinforced by the tacit and long-continued
acquiescence of the United States, while New Mexico was a Territory, in the claims of those holding the land in controversy under
Texas surveys and patents, and the undisturbed possession of the
Texas claimants. Id.

NEW MEXICO v. TEXAS.
279

Opinion of the Court.

10. New Mexico, having explicitly declared in her Constitution of
1912 that her boundary between parallels of 32° and 310 47' followed the main channel of the Rio Grande as it existed on the ninth
day of September, 1850, and this having been confirmed by the
United States by admitting her as a State with the line thus described as her boundary, and also approved by Texas in her pleadings, New Mexico cannot question this limitation of her boundary
and lay claim to lands east of that line because of changes in the
river course since,1850, due to the process of accretion. P. 302.

THIs suit was brought in this Court by the State of
New Mexico to settle a controversy over a portion of the
boundary between that State and the State of Texas.
After argument on final hearing, the case was referred to
a Special Master, 266 U. S. 586. The present decision
is on exceptions taken by both parties to the Master's
report. The exceptions of New Mexico are overruled, and
those of Texas sustained. The bill is dismissed and a
decree ordered under the cross bill.
By an. order made on April 9, 1928, when this part of
the volume was nearing the press, certain modifications in
the opinion were directed, which are followed in the printing here. The order will be published in volume 276.

Mr. Frank W. Clancy, with whom Mr. Jay Turley was
on the briefs, for complainant.
Mr. IF. A. Keeling, Attorney General of Texas, with
whom Messrs. John C. Wall, Wallace Hawkins, Assistant
Attorneys General, and W. W. Turney were on the briefs,
for defendant.
Mr. Thornton Hardie as amicus curiae, on behalf of
L. M. Crawford, by special leave of Court.
MR. JUSTICE' SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This suit was brought by the State of New Mexico
against the State of Texas in 1913 to settle a controversy

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

concerning the location of the part of their common
boundary extending southwardly in the valley of the Rio
Grande River an air-line distance of about fifteen miles
from the parallel of 32 degrees north latitude to the parallel of 31 degrees 47 minutes on the international bounddry between the United States and Mexico. This is an
off-set in the southern boundary of New Mexico extending nearly to El Paso.
In its bill New Mexico alleged that under certain designated statutes and other public proceedings 1 the channel
of the Rio Grande as it existed in 1850 became and was
the boundary of Texas and the Territory of New Mexico
between these two parallels, that this boundary had "remained unchanged" and "now is" the boundary between
the two States, and that a correct delineation of this line
in the middle of the channel was shown on a map attached as an exhibit to the bill; and prayed specifically
that "the middle of the channel of the Rio Grande as it
existed in the year 1850," and as shown upon this map,
be "decreed to be the true boundary line." In its answer
and cross bill Texas also alleged that the true boundary
line is the channel of the Rio Grande as it existed in the
year 1850, but denied the correctness of the location
shown on the map exhibited with the bill, and alleged that
the line was correctly delineated on a map attached as an
exhibit to the answer; and prayed that the boundary line
1 Legislative compact of 1850 between the United States and the
State of Texas. 9 Stat. 446, c. 49; 2 Sayles' Early Laws of Texas,
267; Pres. Proclamation, 9 Stat. 1005. Gadsden Treaty of 1853 with
the Republic of Mexico. 10 Stat. 1031. Act of 1854 declaring the
southern boundary of the Territory of New Mexico. 10 Stat. 575, C.
245. New Mexico Enabling Act of 1910. 36 Stat. 557, c. 310. Constitution of New Mexico, Art. 1. Joint Resolution of 1910 reaffirming the boundary line between Texas and the Territory of New
Mexico. 36 Stat. 1454. Joint resolution of 1911 admitting New
Mexico as a State of the Union. 37 Stat. 39.

NEW MEXICO v. TEXAS.
279

Opinion of the Court.

"be declared to be the middle of the channel of the Rio
Grande as it actually existed in the year 1850," and as
shown upon the map exhibited with the answer. And in
its answer to the cross bill New Mexico again stated that
the true boundary line "is the channel of the Rio Grande
as it existed in the year 1850," but denied that
this was correctly located on the map exhibited with the
answer.
Each State thus asserted that the true boundary line is
the middle of the channel of the Rio Grande in 1850.
Neither alleged that there had been any change in this
line by accretions. And the only issue was as to the true
location of the channel in that year.
Upon this single issue a large mass of testimony was
taken before examiners, during a period of several years.
Some of this, as bearing evidentially upon the location
of the river in i850, related incidentally to subsequent
changes by accretions and avulsions. In 1924 New Mexico, on its motion, was allowed by the Court 2 to take, subject to rebuttal, the additional testimony of one witness
on the question whether, assuming that in what is known
as the Country Club area, the river had been located in
1850 on the western side of the valley as claimed by
Texas, it had thereafter moved eastward by accretions.
But-still claiming that in fact the river was located in
1850 on the eastern side of the valley, in a position that
was inconsistent with such accretions-New Mexico
neither averred in its motion that there had in fact been
such accretions, nor sought to amend its pleadings so as
to allege either that they had taken place, or that, if so,
the boundary line had been changed by reason thereof.
And the question as to the location of the middle of the
channel in 1850, remained, as before, the sole issue under
the pleadings.
2 264 U, S. 574.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

Thereafter, the Court referred the cause to a special
master, with directions to make special findings, based
upon the entire record, on all material questions of fact,
and report the same with his recommendations.8 The
master, after a full hearing,- made his report; to which
both States filed exceptions. And the cause has been
heard on the report and these exceptions.
In the territory in dispute the Rio Grande flows southwardly through a plain of alluvial and sandy bottom land,
composed largely of detritus, and bordered on the east
and west by ranges of hills. The valley is about four
miles wide at the northern end and narrows gradually to
a canyon or gorge at the southern end. The river in normal times is very shallow; but at frequently recurring
periods freshets caused by melting snow in the mountains
and heavy rains or cloudbursts, flood and overflow the
banks of the river and result in many changes in the channel both by erosions and accretions and by sudden and
violent avulsions.
At the time the bill was filed the river ran on the eastern side of the valley in the northern portion of the area
in dispute, and, crossing the valley in the southern portion, ran on the western side until it reached the gorge,
Neither State claims that this was the location in 1850.
New Mexico, on the one hand, contends that the river
then ran the entire distance from the 32nd parallel to the
gorge on the eastern side of the valley, near the eastern
range of hills. Texas, on the other hand, contends that
it crossed the parallel about three-fifths of a mile westwardly, ran farther to the west in the northern portion
of the disputed area, and, crossing about midway to the
western side of the valley, ran most of the way to the
8 266 U. S. 586.
4 Printed briefs aggregating 2150 pages were submitted to him.

NEW MEXICO v. TEXAS.
279

Opinion of the Court.

gorge near the western range of hills. That is, broadly
speaking, New Mexico contends that the river then ran
on the eastern side of the valley, and Texas, that it ran
mainly on the western side. The distance between the
two locations midway of the disputed area is about four
miles.
The master made an elaborate and thorough report in
which he considered at length the contentions of the two
States and the salient features of the testimony. He
found, on all the evidence, that the allegations of New
Mexico as to the location of the Rio Grande "as it existed in the year 1850" were not sustained, and that the
river then followed, in general, the course claimed by
Texas, and on the dates nearest to 1850 of which there
was credible evidence, was located as particularly described in the report,5 and had an average width of 300
feet; but that thereafter, between 1852 and the filing of
the bill, the channel in certain portions of the course, including the Country Club area, was moved eastward by
reason of accretions0 And he reported that the true
boundary line when the bill was filed was the middle of
the channel of the river in the location occupied after
such accretions, as described in the report, and recommended that this be fixed 150 feet from the east and west
banks, respectively, as found by him.
The questions presented are whether the master's finding as to the location of the river in 1850 is correct; and,
if so, whether the boundary line was subsequently
changed by accretions, and to what extent.
Location of the Rio Grande in 1850.
L New Mexico, while not excepting specifically to the
ultimate finding of the master as to the location of the
5Section V (1).

11Section VI.

7Section

VII.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

river in 1850, has filed various exceptions to matters
leading to this general finding, by which it challenges the
correctness of certain incidental statements of the master; his conclusions as to certain portions of the evidence;
and the fact that he refers to certain official reports and
maps which he thought might be judicially noticed, several of which he filed as exhibits to his report. Some of
these exceptions are plainly immaterial. And none of
them need be dealt with separately, as they are merged
in the ultimate question whether, upon the competent
evidence, viewed in its entirety, the master's finding as to
the location of the river in 1850 is correct.
The evidence relating to this matter is so voluminous 8
that it is entirely impracticable to refer to it in any detail.
And while we have considered the various contentions
relating to its many phases, we can here deal with the
question of its weight only in the broadest outlines.
To establish its contention as to the location of the
river New Mexico relied mainly upon the testimony of a
large number of Indians and Mexicans, most of whomwith others who did not testify-had been members of
different parties that had accompanied its engineers on
various trips down the river between 1912 and 1914,
shortly before and after the filing of the bill, for the purpose of pointing out the location of the old river; the
testimony of a former registrar of the Land Office, who
had known the river in 1857 and 1858 when conductor on
a stage route and had been employed by New Mexico to
find witnesses having knowledge of the old river; and a
survey of the 32nd parallel made in 1859 by John H.
Clark, United States commissioner, with the testimony of
its engineers, surveyors and others relating thereto. ,
8 The entire evidence covers about 3500 pages of the record, supple-

mented by about 200 maps, photographs and other documentary
exhibits.

NEW MEXICO v. TEXAS.
279

Opinion of the Court.

2. While there were various discrepancies and contradictions in the testimony of the witnesses as to the location of the old river, their evidence was to the general
effect that at different times between 1850 and 1860, it
ran, as they recollected, on the eastern side of the valley,
near the eastern range of hills, substantially as claimed by
New Mexico.
The master, in dealing with the evidence of the Indian
and Mexican witnesses, said: "Most of the witnesses
were illiterate; they were unable to estimate distances
with any degree of accuracy. . . . All . . . were
old men, some very old, and some were only ten years of
age or less at the date when they passed along the river
between the years 1850 and 1860. There was much evidence that in those years the country was wild and infested with hostile Indians, . . . Many of the witnesses travelled part of the time at night. From White's
Ranch to Alamitos, there was but one, if any, house prior
to 1857. The names given by the witnesses, therefore,
to points along the river with relation to which .
they located the river . . . , referred to bends, hills,
bosques, esteros, cottonwood trees, etc. There was no
stage coach route prior to 1857. Many of the witnesses
had not travelled along the river since the Civil War; and
only a few claimed to have had any continuous knowledge
of the river. . . . Moreover, most of the whole river
plane or valley had been altered in condition since 18501860. In those years, it was uninhabited, uncultivated,
and covered in many parts near the river with thick
bosques (groves or forests) of cottonwood and tornillo
trees. The . . . land, in 1912-1914, was considerably
settled and cultivated; the town of Anthony had come
into existence; there were farms, cornfields, and alfalfa
fields, paved roads and a railroad, in many places where
they located the bed of the old 1850 river. . . . In

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

many years, at the time of annual floods . . . the
river covered the whole valley from its western to its
eastern margin. When the floods subsided, the river at
times resumed its former channel, and at times it did not.
[As] testified to by plaintiff's engineer witness,
Post: 'There are old river beds or indications of old river
beds in various parts of the valley . . . If I had
started out to survey old river beds . . . I would not
be through surveying yet.' He further stated that in
surveying throughout the valley, he had seen old water
courses and river beds as distinct and more distinct than
that claimed by the witnesses to be the River of 1850.
The river has always carried and deposited large quantities of silt, mud and other detritus. At times of flood,
many old channels were filled with deposits and their
presence effaced. The river valley, at places, .
has been raised in level many feet. The Santa Fe Railroad has been obliged to raise its railroad bed several
times, and in doing so has, at places, excavated from the
sandhills at the east. In describing the manner in which
they located the river in 1912-1914, the witnesses testified
that they walked along depressions, low ground, old channels, etc., which they pointed to Post and the surveyors
as the bed of the River of 1850, according to their recollection; that this bed, as a rule, showed banks not more than
two or three feet high; . . . that for a considerable
distance, at various points, the bed of the old river was
then occupied by the railroad tracks, by the county road,
and by the river as it flowed in 1912-1914. Many of the
witnesses . . . testified that, before they made their
trips, the channel of the old river had been outlined by the
surveyor's stakes. Several witnesses said that they fol-lowed the stakes. . . . Under all the conditions outlined above, I consider it improbable that Indian and
Mexican witnesses would be able to trace accurately, on

NEW MEXICO v. TEXAS.
279

Opinion of the Court.

the ground, the course of a river as it flowed over fifty to
sixty years prior."
The master further found that the identification of the
point from which these witnesses began their location of
the old river, as the place called Alamitos where there
had been prior to 1857 a camp or watering place for
travelers on the east bank of the river, was "particularly
doubtful and difficult of belief"; and that the road leading up the river past Alamitos, to which they referred, did
not run on the eastern side of the valley or along the
eastern sand hills, as claimed, but up the valley bottom,
west of the location of the river claimed by New Mexico
and in a position incompatible therewith. And, after
referring to the testimony of the former registrar of the
Land Office, he concluded: " In view of all the evidence in
the case, I am unable to attach great weight or credit to
the testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses as to the location
either of the bed or of the course of the Rio Grande as it
flowed in 1850.

.

.

.

I am of opinion that their mem-

ories were defective, and especially that they were mistaken as to dates, and that they confused the course of
the river as they knew it in later years with their knowledge of it in earlier years. If not so mistaken

.

.

.

it

is apparent that many of them were testifying as to
.

.

.

those periods of the year when the river was in

flood and may well have been flowing along the eastern
as well as the western banks. There is also evidence
. as to the existence on the east side of the remains
of an old river channel of 1826, which had left sloughs or
esteros at various points; also as to the existence of old
ditches.

.

.

.

It is probable that the river, subsiding

from floods, at times ran in these sloughs, esteros, or
ditches, as a minor channel or branch, and that it was thus
mistaken by some witnesses for the main channel of the
river."
83583 -28-19

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

3. The survey of John H. Clark, United States commissioner, was made by him as a member of the United
States and Texas Boundary Commission,' in and after
1859, of a portion of the boundary line between Texas and
the Territories of the United States, including the lines of
the 103rd meridian and the 32nd parallel between that
meridian and the channel of the Rio Grande River, which
then constituted part of the boundary between Texas and
the Territory of New Mexico,1" connecting on the west
with the line running down the channel of the river here
in dispute. In 1891 the lines of the meridian and parallel
established by Clark were" confirmed" by an Act of Congress and a Joint Resolution of the Texas Legislature as
boundary lines between Texas and the Territory of New
Mexico."
The significance of Clark's survey lies in its bearing
upon the location of the east bank of the Rio Grande in
1859. His report shows, admittedly, that he placed at the
initial point of the survey on the 32nd parallel, a pyramid
of stone, designated as Monument No. 1, standing 600 feet
1This Commission was appointed under a Texas Act of 1854, 3
Gammel's Laws of the State of Texas, 1525, and an Act of Congress
of 1858, 11 Stat. 310, c. 92, to run and mark the entire boundary line
between Texas and the territories of the United States from the point
where it left the Red River to its intersection with the Rio Grande.
The Commissioners began at the Rio Grande, but soon separated and
the survey was continued by Clark, the United States commissioner.
See, generally, Oklahoma v. Texas, 272 U. S. 21, 26. His original
report, with the accompanying field notes and maps, have long been
lost; but a copy of portions thereof contained in Sen. Ex. Doe. No.
70, 47th Cong., 1st Sess., in which the maps appear on a reduced scale,
was introduced in evidence by stipulation.
10 Legislative compact of 1850 between the United States and the
State of Texas; Gadsden Treaty of 1853 with the Republic of Mexico;
and the Act of 1854 declaring the southern boundary of the Territory
of New Mexico: cited in Note 1, supra.
11 26 Stat. 948, 971, c. 542; 10 Gammel's Laws of the State of
Texas, 195. See Oklahoma v. Texas, supra, 31,

NEW MEXICO v. TEXAS.
279

Opinion of the Court.

from the east bank of the river. This monument has long
since disappeared. New Mexico contended that, as shown
by the field notes and as re-established by its engineers
with reference to other objects called for in the field notes
and shown on the maps, the location of this Monument
coincided with that of Station I on the survey of the parallel from which Clark took the bearings of various objects,
and that the river bank was thereby fixed at a point 600
feet west of this Station-whose location was agreed
upon-substantially as shown by the witnesses who testified to the location of the old river. On the other hand,
Texas contended that, as shown by the field notes and as
re-established by its. engineers with reference to other
objects, this Monument was located at a point about
2800 feet west of Station 1, and the river bank was thereby
fixed at a like distance west of the location claimed by
New Mexico; and further, that in 1911-1913 this Monument had been re-established at a point about 200 feet
west of the location shown by its witnesses, by joint commissioners of the United States and Texas, and this
re-establishment was binding upon New Mexico, irrespective of its precise accuracy.
The basis of the latter contention is this: Before the
Territory of New Mexico had been admitted as a State
under the Enabling Act of 1910,12 a constitution was
adopted for the proposed State,' which, disregarding
entirely the lines of Clark's survey, declared in general
terms that its boundaries ran along the 103rd meridian to
the 32nd parallel, along that parallel to the Rio Grande,
as it existed on September 9, 1850, and with the main
channel of the river, as it existed on that date, to the
parallel of 31 degrees and 47 minutes. Thereupon, in
36 Stat. 557, c. 310.
13Ho. Doc. 1369, 61st Cong., 3rd Sess. This constitution was
12

adopted by a constitutional convention in November, 1910, and ratified
by the voters in January, 1911.

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

February, 1911, Congress, by'a Joint Resolution ', declared
that any provision of this constitution that tended to
annul or change the established boundary lines between
the Territory and the State of Texas" run by Clark in
1859 and 1860, " shall be of no force or effect" and be construed so as not to affect or alter the Clark lines in any
way; and that the ratification of these lines by the United
States and the State of Texas in 1891 "shall be held and
deemed a conclusive location and settlement of said
boundary lines," and the lines run and marked by monuments along the 103rd meridian and the 32nd parallel
shall "remain the true boundaries of Texas and New
Mexico." This Resolution further-authorized the President, in conjunction with the State of Texas, to re-establish and re-mark the Clark boundary lines, and, for such
purpose, to appoint a commissioner who, with a commissioner for the State of Texas, should re-mark the boundary
between the Territory of New Mexico and Texas on the
line run by Clark for the 103rd meridian to the southeast
14 No. 6. Reaffirming the boundary line between Texas and the
Territory of New Mexico. 36 Stat. 1454.
15 The Senate Judiciary Committee in recommending the passage

of this resolution, said: "The contention of the constitutional convention of New Mexico . . . seems to be that the boundary
line . . . from latitude 36.30* north to latitude 320 north is
located west of the true one hundred and third meridian
and that a strip of territory between the true . . . meridian
and the line as now established and recognized by the United States
and the State of Texas . . . of right belongs to New Mexico."
Sen. Rep't No. 940, 61st Cong., 3d Sess. And the President, in a
message recommending its passage, said that the proposed constitution
" contains a clause purporting to fix the boundary line between New
Mexico and Texas which may reasonably be construed to be different
from the boundary lines heretofore legally run, marked, established,
and ratified by the United States and the State of Texas, and under
which claims might be set up and litigations instigated of an unnecessary and improper character." Ho. Doc. No. 1076, 61st Cong., 3d
Sess.

NEW MEXICO v. TEXAS.
279

293

Opinion of the Court.

corner of New Mexico, and thence west with the 32nd
parallel as determined by him to the Rio Grande; the
position of the boundary lines as marked by him to be
determined by his old monuments and lines where found
on the ground, or otherwise by their original position as
shown by parol evidence or his topographical maps and
field notes.
In August, 1911, Congress, in a Joint Resolution 11 declaring that New Mexico should be admitted as a State
upon compliance with certain specified conditions, specifically provided that such admission " shall be subject to
the terms and conditions of" the Joint Resolution of
February, 1911. In February, 1912, New Mexico was
admitted as a State.17
Thereafter, the joint commissioners appointed to remark the Clark boundary lines-commonly called the
Scott-Cockrell Commission-submitted to the President
reports of their proceedings. In one of these, relating to
Clark's Monument No. 1 on the 32nd parallel, they stated
that, on completing their field work in September, 1911,
being unable after a second effort to locate this Monument
from any physical facts found upon the ground or oral
testimony, they had determined the approximate scale of
the topographical map accompanying Clark's report, and
measuring westward on the ground from his, Monument
No. 4 the distance to-his Monument No. 1 indicated on the
map, had re-established his Monument No. 1 at the point
thus ascertained, and erected there a concrete monument
marked to show such re-establishment. In February,
1913, the President by an Executive Order 18 approved the
16No. 8, 37 Stat. 39.

17 President's Proclamation, 37 Stat. 1723.
18 No. 1716, February 25, 1913. This Order directed that a copy
of the commissioners' reports, plat and field notes, should be deposited
in the permanent archives of the General Land Office as a perpetual
memorial of the existence and location of the boundary line.

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

reports of the commissioners, and confirmed and established their findings, conclusions and acts for the establishment and demarcation of the boundary lines between New
Mexico and Texas.
The Clark Monument No. 1, as re-established by the
Scott-Cockrell Commission, is almost exactly 3,000 feet
west of Station 1; and if this is conclusive as to its original location, places the river bank in 1859 substantially in
the position claimed by Texas. As to this, New Mexico
contended that in re-establishing the Monument the Commission had mistaken Clark's Monument No. 3 for his
Monument No. 4 and consequently started the measurement from a point 3,000 feet too far to the west; and further, that as the re-establishment was not made until after
New Mexico had been admitted as a State, it was not
bound thereby.
The master, in dealing with Clark's survey-as to which
there was much conflicting evidence-and the re-establishment of Monument No. 1, found, as a matter of law,
that New Mexico was bound by the Clark lines as reestablished by the Commission and could not challenge
the correctness of its acts, and that hence, in locating
the boundary line extending southwardly from the 32nd
parallel through the valley, the starting point on the
parallel could not be fixed east of the re-established Monument. And he further found that it was shown by the
evidence, as a matter of fact, that the location of Clark's
Monument No. 1 did not coincide with that of Station 1,
but was at a point 2783 feet west of that Station, 216.5
feet east of the point where the Monument had been reestablished by the Commission, thereby showing that the
river bank was at least 2783 feet west of the location
claimed by the witnesses for New Mexico; that the theory
that the Commission had measured from Monument No.
3 instead of Monument No. 4, was without basis; and
that the location of Monument No. 1, either as found by

NEW MEXICO v. TEXAS.
279

Opinion of the Court.

him or as fixed by the Commission, was utterly inconsistent with the location of the river claimed by New Mexico.
4. In support of its contention as to the location of the
river, Texas further relied upon various old surveys, patents and maps, and the testimony of its engineers in regard
thereto, as showing the true course of the river southwardly through the valley from the point where it crossed
the parallel. These documents consisted mainly of the
so-called Salazar-Diaz Survey of the Rio Grande, made
in 1852 by Diaz, a Mexican engineer, by order of Salazar,
the Mexican member of the Joint Boundary Commission
under the Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo ;' 9-a survey
made in 1860 and a resurvey made in 1886, by Texas
surveyors, of a Mexican grant on which Texas reissued a
patent in 1886;-surveys made by Texas surveyors between 1848 and 1873, several of which were bounded on
the west by the river bank, on which Texas issued patents
between 1860 and 1874;-maps of surveys made in 18521853 and 1855 under the direction of the American surveyor for the Joint Boundary Commission under the
Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo and the American member
of the Joint Boundary Commission under the Gadsden
Treaty, and agreed to by the Joint Commissions, which
showed the course of the river ;-and War Department
maps of surveys made in 1854-1856 in the course of explorations for a railroad route to the Pacific Ocean, likewise
showing the course of the river. And Texas also relied
upon long acquiescence by the United States before the
Territory of New Mexico had been admitted as a State.
The Salazar-Diaz Survey covered the course of the Rio
Grande through all the area in dispute except in the
extreme northern portion. The evidence of this Survey
consisted of two copies of a document containing Diaz'
memoranda and field notes. One was a copy of the
19 9 Stat. 922.

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
IOpinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

original document in the archives of the International
Boundary Commission under the Convention of 1889,20
which was authenticated by a certificate of the Mexican
Commissioner. This was introduced in evidence by
Texas, over the objection of New Mexico that the Commissioner had no authority to make such a certificate.2
A few days later counsel for New Mexico stated that they
would offer in evidence a copy of these memoranda and
field notes properly certified by one of the departments
of the Mexican Government. They later furnished counsel for Texas a copy certified by a government officer in
the City of Mexico. 2 The copy so furnished was thereafter introduced by Texas, without objection; and engineers of both States were examined and cross-examined
as to their work and calculations based on this copy,
concerning the reproduction of the survey on the ground.
Two years later, in 1918, on the day that the taking of
testimony was closed by agreement, New Mexico moved
to strike out both copies from the record on the ground
that they were not so authenticated as to be admissible
in evidence; and introduced evidence in support of this
motion for the purpose of showing that there was not in
fact any original of the document in the department in
the City of Mexico as they had believed when they furnished the copy to the counsel for Texas.
We agree with the view of the master that the objections to the two copies were not well taken. The first was
20

26 Stat. 1512.

This copy also contained a calculation of courses that had been
made from the field notes, in 1911, by an engineer for the International Boundary Commission. This calculation, which the master
found to be inadmissible, played no part in the.evidence in the case.
22 This did not contain the engineer's calculation of courses, but
contained a copy of Diaz' diary. Otherwise the memoranda and field
notes were substantially the same as in the first copy.
21

NEW MEXICO v. TEXAS.
279

Opinion of the Court.

admissible upon authentication by the Mexican Boundary
Commissioner having proper custody of the original. See
United States v. Wiggins, 14 Pet. 334, 346, and United
States v. Acosta, 1 How. 24, 26. And under all the circumstances the motion to exclude the second copy came
too late, apart from any question as to its proper authentication. See Benson v. United States, 146 U. S. 325, 333.
There was much conflict in the evidence of the engineers for New Mexico and Texas as to the location of the
river as shown by the Salazar-Diaz Survey, which was
described in the field notes by traverse from triangulation points; also as to the location of the Texas patent on
the Mexican grant and other Texas surveys and patents.
New Mexico also challenged the authenticity of the
Salazar-Diaz Survey.
5. The master found from the evidence: That the
Salazar-Diaz Survey was authentic; that the course of the
river as surveyed in 1852 had been reproduced by the
engineers for Texas, by traverse from the triangulation
points, with substantial correctness, and that even if the
engineers for New Mexico were correct in certain contentions, the resultant reproduction would not place the river
anywhere near the location claimed by New Mexico;That the boundaries of the patent issued by Texas on
the Mexican grant-which extended nearly across the entire valley-except possibly the river boundary, could be
substantially identified on the ground, and by far the
greater part of the land patented was west of the location
of the river claimed by New Mexico;That, although according to New Mexico's contention
as to the location of the river a large part of the Texas
surveys for lands lying between the 32nd parallel and the:
Mexican grant claiming a frontage on the river, would be
located in the sand-hills east of the valley, they were in
fact located in the valley;-

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

That, although some of the Texas surveys for lands lying south of the Mexican grant and extending to the end
of the valley, might, if exactly surveyed now, extend
across the river and on the western bank, they claimed
land lying, at least in part, west of the location of the
river for which New Mexico contended, and that the western line of the lands claimed in the surveys and patents
fairly corresponded, with minor variations, to the line of
the river shown by the Salazar-Diaz Survey;-and
That the Salazar-Diaz Survey was/corroborated by certain of the maps of the surveys made for the Joint Boundary Commissions and the War Department, and by a map
accompanying Clark's survey of the 32nd parallel, and
that all these maps--as well as certain other maps that
had not been introduced in evidence, but of which he
thought judicial notice might be taken-sustained the
contention of Texas as to the course of the Rio Grande
in 1850 and were inconsistent with the contention of New
Mexico.
He further found that, for many years prior to the admission of New Mexico as a State in 1912, surveys were
made by Texas surveyors and patents issued by Texas on
substantially all the land in the area in dispute; 2 that
the occupancy and physical possession of this land by
Texas patentees and persons claiming under them, had
been admitted by counsel at the hearing before him; that
there was no evidence that from 1850. to 1911 the United
States had issued any patents specifically covering lands
east of the river as located by the Salazar-Diaz Survey, or
conflicting with any of the patents issued by Texas; and
23 New Mexico specifically alleged in its bill that Texas had
attempted to assume jurisdiction over land lying to the west of the
channel of the river as it existed in 1850, and had made grants, conveyances, patents and surveys thereof

NEW MEXICO v. TEXAS.
279

Opinion of the Court.

that, for at least thirty years prior to the admission of
the Territory of New Mexico as a State, the United States
made no challenge of the claims to lands asserted by Texas
and its citizens and, impliedly at least, recognized the
practical line that had been established as the boundary
between the Territory and Texas.
The master concluded on all the evidence that the allegations in New Mexico's bill as to the location and course
of the Rio Grande "as it existed in the year 1850" were
not sustained, and that the river did not then flow on the
eastern side of the valley as claimed by New Mexico; that
its location and course in 1850 was, in general, as alleged
in the cross-bill of Texas, and, in particular, that on the
dates nearest to 1850 of which there was credible evidence
it followed the course set forth in his report and described
by reference to Clark's Monument No. 1, two Texas surveys made in 1860, a Texas survey made in 1849, and the
Salazar-Diaz Survey of 1852, substantially as reproduced
by the engineers for Texas; and that under the testimony
the average width of the river should be estimated as 300
feet, and the middle of the channel fixed at 150 feet from
the line of its east bank as shown by the Texas surveys,
and 150 feet from the line of its west bank as shown by the
Salazar-Diaz Survey.
6. We need not determine whether any of the documents referred to by the master that had not been introduced in evidence were properly the subject of judicial
notice. Be that as it may, since New Mexico had no
opportunity to introduce evidence in explanation or rebuttal of them, we have not considered them in reaching
our own conclusions.
7. Upon the whole case we are satisfied that the master's finding as to the' location of the river in 1850 is substantially correct, and fixes its course as accurately as is

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court..

275 U. S.

possible after the lapse of more than three-quarters of a
century. Without attempting to set out our reasons in
detail, we conclude: That the testimony of the witnesses
as to their recollection of the old river is far from satisfactory, dand does not, in view of the other evidence in the
case, sustain the burden of proof resting upon New Mexico ;-that the greater weight of the evidence shows that
Clark's Monument No. 1 did not coincide with Station 1,
but was located at least 2783 feet west thereof, substantially as re-established by the Scott-Cockrell Commission ;-that under the Joint Resolutions of February and
August, 1911, preceding and conditioning the admission
of New Mexico as a State, it is bound by the re-establishment of the Monument by the Commission and cannot
question its accuracy;-that this necessarily extends the
Clark boundary line along the 32nd parallel to the east
bank of the river, at a point 600 feet west of the re-established Monument;-that, according to the greater weight
of the evidence, the river, in 1850, or as near thereto as
may now be determined, ran southwardly through the
valley from the parallel, as shown by certain of the surveys, patents and maps relied on by Texas-especially the
Salazar-Diaz Survey of 1852, the Texas surveys of 1849
and 1860, the maps of the surveys made in 1852-1855 for
the Joint Boundary Commissions, and the Clark map of
1859-on the course and in the location set forth and described in the master's report ;-and that this conclusion
is reinforced by the tacit and long-continued acquiescence
of the United States, while New Mexico was a Territory,
in the claims of those holding the land in controversy under Texas surveys and patents, and the undisturbed possession of the Texas claimants. In short, we find that
New Mexico has failed to sustain the burden of proof, and
that the master's report is in accord with the greater
weight of the evidence.

NEW MEXICO v. TEXAS.
279

Opinion of the Court.

8. New Mexico's exceptions to so much of the report
as deals with the location of the river in 1850, are accordingly overruled.
Accretions.
Both States have filed exceptions to the master's report
in reference to accretions. Texas, on the one hand, insists
that he was in error in reporting as the boundary line the
location occupied by the river after it had been moved
eastward from its location in 1850 by accretions. New
Mexico, on the other hand, insists conditionally-that is,
only if its exceptions as to the location in 1850 are not
sustained-that in determining the accretions in the
Country Club area the master fixed the line of such accretions in an indefinite manner and not far enough to the
east. We find that the contention of Texas is well taken
and the conditional contention of New Mexico is therefore immaterial.
This case is not one calling for the application of the
general rule established in Nebraskav. Iowa, 143 U. S. 359,
Missouri v. Nebraska, 196 U. S. 23, Arkansas v. Tennessee, 246 U. S. 158 and Oklahoma v. Texas, 260 U. S. 606,
as to changes in State boundary lines caused by gradual
accretions on a river boundary.
We reach this conclusion without reference to the fact
that there were no issues under the pleadings as to accretions or changes in the boundary line since 1850, and
without considering the propriety of permitting amendments to the pleadings, since in any event the outcome
must be the same.
By the legislative compact created by an Act of Congress of September 9, 1850, and an Act of the Texas Legislature of November 25, 1850, the channel of the Rio
Grande southwardly from its intersection with the 32nd
parallel was established as a boundary between Texas and
the territory of the United States. By this same Act of
Congress the Territory of New Mexico was created, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

by that Act, supplemented by an Act of 1854 following
the Gadsden Treaty, the channel of the river between the
32nd parallel and the parallel of 31 degrees 47 minutes
became a boundary between the Territory of New Mexico
and the State of Texas.24
New Mexico, when admitted as a State in 1912, explicitly declared in its Constitution that its boundary ran
"along said thirty-second parallel to the Rio Grande
• . . as it existed on the ninth day of September, one
thousand eight hundred and fifty; thence, following the
main channel of said river, as it existed on the ninth day
of September, one thousand eight hundred and fifty, to
the parallel of thirty-one degrees, forty-seven minutes
north latitude." This was confirmed by the United States
by admitting New Mexico as a State with the line thus
described as its boundary; and Texas has also affirmed the
same by its pleadings in this cause. Since the Constitution defined its boundary by the channel of the river as
existing in 1850, and Congress admitted it as a State with
that boundary, New Mexico, manifestly, cannot now
question this limitation of its boundary or assert a claim
to any land east of the line thus limited. And it was
doubtless for this reason that New Mexico alleged in its
pleadings and has consistently asserted throughout this
litigation that the true boundary is the channel of the
river as it existed in 1850.
The exceptions of Texas to so much of the master's report as deals with the question of accretions and fixes the
boundary with reference thereto, are accordingly sustained; and the conditional exceptions of New Mexico to
so much of the report as relates to accretions in the
Country Club area, are overruled.
Conclusion.
Our conclusion on the entire case is that the boundary
line between New Mexico and Texas in the area in dis94A1

these Acts are cited in Note 1, supra.

ROBINS DRY DOCK & REPAIR CO. v. FLINT.

303

Syllabus.

279

pute is the middle of the channel of the Rio Grande as it
was located in 1850, extending southwardly from the parallel of 32 degrees north latitude to the parallel of 31
degrees 47 minutes, as found and described by the master
in Section V (1) of his report; thie intersection of the
east bank of the river with the line of the 32nd parallel
to be taken at a point 600 feet west from the Clark Monument No. 1 as re-established by the Scott-Cockrell Commission, and the middle line of the channel to be taken 150
feet from the east and west banks of the river, respectively,
as found by the master.
It results that the bill of New Mexico must be dismissed; and that, under the cross-bill of Texas, the line
above described must be decreed to be the boundary between the two States.
This boundary line should now be accurately surveyed
and marked by a commissioner or commissioners to be appointed by the Court, whose report shall be subject to its
approval.
The parties may submit within forty days the form of a
decree to carry these conclusions into effect.
Bill dismissed and decree directed under crossbill.

DRY DOCK & REPAIR COMPANY v.
FLINT ET AL.

ROBINS
CERTIORARI

No. 102.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Argued December 1, 1927.-Decided December 12, 1927.

The owners of a vessel, remaining in their possession while timechartered to the plaintiffs, docked her with the defendant under a
provision of the charter for docking every six months and suspension of payment of hire by the plaintiffs until she was again ready
for service. Defendant injured the vessel by negligence, causing
delay, repaired her, settled with the owners and received a release
of all their claims. Defendant had no notice of the charter until

