MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.

13

Syllabus.
MAMMOTH OIL COMPANY
STATES.

ET

Ai. v. UNITED

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 140. Argued April 12, 13, 1927.-Decided October 10, 1927.
1. The lease and contract in this case--which involve inter alia the
letting of a Naval Petroleum Reserve for exploitation by a private
corporation and a scheme for obtaining fuel oil and elaborate storage facilities for the Navy by means of the royalties of crude oil
provided for the United States in the lease-were without authority
of law, and the United States is entitled on that ground to have
them canceled. Pan American Petroleum Co. v. United States, 273
U. S. 456. Pp. 35, 53.
2. The facts and circumstances in evidence require a finding that,
pending the making of the lease and agreement, the representative
of the Government (former Secretary of the Interior) who dominated the transactions, and the representative of the lessee corporation, contrary to the Government's policy for the conservation of
oil reserves for the Navy and in disregard of law, conspired to procure for the company all the products of the reserve on the basis
of exchange of royalty oil for construction work, fuel oil, etc.; that
the former so favored the latter and the making of the lease and
agreement that it was not possible for him loyally or faithfully to
serve the interests of the United States or impartially to consider
the applications of others for leases in the reserve, and that the lease
and agreement were made fraudulently by means of collusion and
conspiracy between them. P. 35.
3. Evidence is to be weighed according to the proof which it was in
the power of one side to produce, and in the power of the other
to contradict. P. 51.
4. Having introduced evidence which, uncontradicted and unexplained,
was sufficient to sustain its charge that the lease and contract were
procured for the defendant corporation through fraud participated
in by the principal representative of the company, the United
States was not required to call him as a witness; and his silence
makes strongly against the company. It is as if he personally held
the lease, were defendant, and failed to testify. P. 52.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Statement of the Case.

275 U. S.

5. While the failure of such representative to testify can not properly
be held to supply any fact not reasonably supported by the substantive evidence in the case, it justly may be inferred that he was
not in a position to combat or explain away any fact or circumstance so supported by evidence and material to the Government's
case. P. 52.
6. There is no occasion to consider, and the Court does not determine,
whether the former Secretary of the Interior was bribed. P. 53.
7. It was not necessary for the Government to show that it suffered
or was liable to suffer loss or disadvantage as a result of the lease
or that the former Secretary of the Interior gained by or was financially concerned in the transaction. P. 53.
8. An oil-purchasing company bought from the fraudulent lessee in
this case the tanks which the latter had built or was building on the
demised naval reserve under the lease and in pursuance of the
fraudulent scheme, and used them for storing oil from an adjacent
oil field. The purchaser was owned half and half by two companies
whose boards of directors were headed, respectively, by S,who
represented the lessee in obtaining the fraudulent lease, and by another person who had acted with him, shortly before the purchase,
in controlling the purchasing company in respect of other important
transactions
Held, that the purchasing company must be presumed to have
known that there was no law authorizing the lease; that the circumstances disclosed in the case were sufficient to impute to it S's
knowledge of the fraud; and that it was not entitled to use or
remove the tanks. P. 54.
9. A pipe-line company which, as the lessee's nominee, built a pipeline and related improvements on the naval reserve, for transportation of oil therefrom, in pursuance of the fraudulent lease, and
which was owned half and half by the two companies referred to in
the preceding paragraph as owners of the purchasing company
therein mentioned, was chargeable with notice that the use of
reserve oil to procure the construction of the pipe line was a part
of the plan for the unauthorized exhaustion of the reserve; that such
use furthered the violation of law and was contrary to the established conservation policy. It stands on no better ground than the
lessee would have occupied if it had made the improvements in
question. P. 55.
14 F. (2d) 705, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 273 U. S. 686, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which reversed a decree of the District

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

15

Argument for Mammoth Oil Co.

Court, 5 F. (2d) 330, dismissing a suit brought by the
United States to cancel an oil and gas lease covering a
Naval Petroleum Reserve in Wyoming, and to set aside
also a supplementary agreement between the same parties. There were prayers for possession of the leased
lands, for an accounting, and for general relief. The
grounds of the suit were fraud and corruption, and lack
of legal authority to execute the instruments. The court
below sustained the Government's contention on the
ground of fraud and corruption. Compare Pan American
Petroleum Co. v. United States, 273 U. S. 456.
Messrs. John W. Lacey and Martin W. Littleton, with
whom Messrs. George P. Hoover, Paul D. Cravath, G. T
Stanford, Herbert V. Lacey, J. W. Zevely, Douglas M.
Moffat, and R. W. Ragland were on the brief, for petitioner, Mammoth Oil Co.
The legal effect of the evidence is always a question of
law. The rule in the federal courts has long been well
settled that fraud is not to be presumed; that it is not to
be presumed from any number of lawful acts; that where
an act and circumstance are as consistent with an honest
motive as with a dishonest one, the former must be preferred; that fraud cannot be proved by a bare preponderance of the evidence, but only by evidence that is clear,
unequivocal and convincing.
No inference is reliably drawn from premises which are
uncertain; nor can legitimate inferences be drawn from
other inferences, nor presumptions indulged which rest
upon the basis of another presumption. The law requires
an open, visible connection between the principal fundamental facts and the deductions to be made on remote
inferences. A presumption is not a circumstance in proof,
and it cannot therefore be made the legitimate foundation for another presumption. There is no open and
visible connection between the fact out of which the first
presumption arises and the fact which is sought to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Mammoth Oil Co.

275 U. S.

established by the dependent presumption.
United
States v. Ross, 92 U. S. 281; Manning v. Ins. Co., 100
U. S. 693; Looney v. Met. Street Ry., 200 U. S. 480; U. S.
Fidelity Co. v. Bank, 145 Fed. 273; Vernon v. United
States, 146 Fed. 121; Postal Tel. Co. v. Livermore, 188
Fed. 696; Cunard Co. v. Kelley, 126 Fed. 610; Davis v.
United States, 18 App. D. C. 468.
No unfavorable presumption arises from the failure to
produce evidence unless there is some duty to produce it,
nor unless it is shown to be within the control of the
party who fails to produce it, nor from the failure to call
as a witness one whom the other party had the same
opportunity of calling, nor if the testimony not given is
privileged. Vajtauer v. Commr., 273 U. S. 103; State v.
Buckman, 74 Vt. 309; Cross v. L. S. Ry., 69 Mich. 363;
Bank v. Hyland, 6 N. Y. Supp. 87; Erie R. R. v. Kane,
118 Fed. 223; Scovill v. Baldwin, 27 Conn. 316; Bleeker
v. Johnston, 69 N. Y. 309; Arbuckle v. Templeton, 65 Vt.
205; Crawford v. State, 112 Ala. 1. No inference may be
drawn from the refusal of the witness to testify on the
claim of constitutional privilege against self incrimination. Beach v. United States, 46 Fed. 754; State v.
Harper,33 Ore. 524; Powers v. State, 75 Neb. 226; State
v. Weaver, 165 Mo. 1.
A defendant is not called upon to introduce evidence to
contradict or explain facts which are insufficient to establish any liability against him. The true rule is, that
silence of a party may be considered in weighing proofs
already adduced tending to fix a liability on him in matters where complete and more exclusive knowledge of the
facts concerning which he is silent, is laid at his door.
Jones, Evidence, 2d ed., vol. 1, § 104; Owens Co. v. Kanawha Co., 259 Fed. 838; Omar Co. v. Bair Co., 285 Fed.
588; Stimpson v. Hunter,234 Mass. 61; Shotwell v. Dixon,
136 N. Y. 43; Loper v, Askin, 178 App. Div. 163; Tex.

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

17

Argument for Mammoth Oil Co.

& Pac. Ry. v. Shoemaker, 98 Tex. 451; Blackman v.
Andrews, 150 Mich. 322; Chi. Mill Co. v. Cooper, 90 Ark.
326; Thompson v. Davitte, 59 Ga. 472; Lowe v. Massey,
62 Ill. 47; New Orleans v. Gauthreaux,32 La. Ann. 1126.
The opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals clearly discloses that bribery constitutes the basis of its adverse finding. There is no evidence that Mr. Sinclair ever received
any Liberty bonds as a dividend or otherwise from the
Continental Trading Co., or that he ever delivered any
Liberty Bonds to Secretary Fall (except $25,000 of bonds
loaned in June, 1923, which admittedly had no relation to
the $230,500 lot of bonds). The court's conclusion is,
therefore, entirely based upon inferences. The court itself
so concedes. The finding that Sinclair delivered or caused
to be delivered bonds to Secretary Fall in May, 1922, was
pure inference drawn, not from any fact or circumstance
disclosed by the record, but in the first instance from certain other basic inferences, and secondarily from numerous other basic inferences.
Counsel for the Government claim that the Court of
Appeals "was not building one assumption upon another. It was making a single inference from many
proven circumstances all pointing one way." An easy
way to avoid pointing out any circumstances is, with a
broad sweep of the hand, to say, "many circumstances."
The Court of Appeals in fact concedes that it must conjecture as to how Everhart acquired the bonds and it
infers that he got them from Sinclair by inferring that
Sinclair was a stockholder in the Continental Trading
Co., that as such stockholder he was entitled to receive in
May, 1922, a dividend from the company, that he and he
alone of the actual or alleged stockholders of the company, and he alone of all people, had a motive to bribe
Secretary Fall, that Everhart could not have acquired
the bonds in any way other than as a bribe for Secre83583-28------2

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Mammoth Oil Co.

275 U. S.

tary Fall, and from those inferences drew the inference
that Sinclair did receive and deliver to Everhart or caused
to be delivered to him by the Continental Trading Co.,
Liberty Bonds in May, 1922, as a bribe for Secretary Fall.
Having inferred that Sinclair received Liberty Bonds
from the Continental Trading Co., and that he delivered
the bonds to Secretary Fall as a bribe, the court then supports its structure of inferences by two props of the same
material, namely, inferences drawn from the failure of the
Mammoth Oil Co. to call Siecretary Fall and Sinclair as
witnesses to deny the charge of bribery. Fall was as
available to the Government as a witness as he was to the
Mammoth Oil Co. The fact that he did not demand to
appear as a witness in an action to which he was not a
party to deny a charge of corruption not made in the bill
is made the basis of an inference against the Mammoth
Oil Co. Sinclair'9 failure to take the stand and deny that
he was a stockholder in the Continental Trading Co., is
used by the court as the final and special ground for the
inference that he was such a stockholder, and his silence
in respect of the charge of bribery is treated as evidence
of the truth of the charge.
The Court of Appeals, in drawing additional inferences,
treated as facts from which to draw inferences, things not
shown by the record to be facts--indeed, things shown by
the record not to be facts; it drew inferences against the
petitioners from facts unrelated to the lease or contracts
in controversy and from facts with which neither the
petitioners nor anyone representing them had any connection; it drew sinister inferences from facts and circumstances perfectly lawful and entirely consistent with
integrity, both of purpose and conduct; in the last
analysis it drew such inferences from its own inferred conclusion of bribery.
Was Secretary Denby's decision, that there was danger
of drainage, arbitrary or capricious or wholly unsupported
by evidence? $ilberschein v. United States, 266 U. S.

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

19

Argument for Mammoth Oil Co.

221. This is a question of fact, and upon it the Court of
Appeals concurred with the District Court in finding that
the lease to the Mammoth Oil Co., was within the authority of the Act of June 4, 1920.
No officer of the Government is shown to have been
remiss in any matter evidenced by the secrecy claimed,
but it would not be enough that such officer were shown
remiss in order to cancel the contracts here. It would be
necessary to show in addition that the Mammoth Oil Co.,
or Sinclair, who represented it, participated in it or at
least knew of the dereliction. This is the rule in actions
to set aside conveyances with intent to defraud creditors.
Prewitt v. Wilson, 103 U. S. 22; Jones v. Simpson, 116
U. S. 609; Cohan v. Levy, 221 Mass. 336; In re Locust
Co., 299 Fed. 756.
It is likewise true in cases where an agent with apparent
authority disposes of his principal's property, the agent
being guilty of fraud in the matter against his principal
but without notice to or participation therein by the purchaser. Andrews v. Solomon, 1 Fed. Cas. 889; Paxton v.
Marshall, 18 Fed. 361; Brooks v. Dick, 135 N. Y. 652;
Mason v. Bauman, 62 Ill. 76; Pac. Exp. Ca. v. Carroll,
66 Mo. App. 275; Chetwood v. Berriman, 39 N. J. Eq.
203; Myers v. Mut. Ins. Co., 99 N. Y. 1. These authorities make it clear that secrecy and concealment by an
agent manifested in his conduct toward his principal, even
if a fraud on the principal, will not charge a third person
dealing with the agent unless notice thereof be brought
home to such third person.
The $25,000 loan by Sinclair to Fall in June, 1923,
occurring as it did several months after Fall had gone out
of office and over a year after both the execution of the
lease and the inferred bribery in connection therewith,
can not be treated as a matter upon which to base the
inference of bribery. United States v, Hancock, 133 U. S,
193.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Mammoth Oil Co.

275 U. S.

Applying to the statute the evidence as to the insecurity
of the oil in the Reserve, the two courts below held that
the lease in controversy was authorized by the statute.
The result is that, with the statute construed as this Court
apparently, though indirectly, construes it in the Pan
American case, both courts below found that the facts
brought the lease within it.
The money appropriation should not be construed to
limit the authority to exchange for containers necessary
to conserve the fuel oil and other products.
We submit that the concurring findings of the two
courts below upon the following points are in accord
with the great weight of the evidence, certainly not contrary to the evidence, much less "clearly" against the
weight of the evidence.
First: That under the Act of June 4, 1920, the information to Secretary Denby as to the danger of the loss of
petroleum to the United States from Naval Reserve No.
3 by drainage, was such -as to invoke the exercise of his
judgment and discretion as to the appropriate action to be
taken to prevent such loss; that in the exercise of such
judgment and discretion the Secretary determined to
make and made and executed the lease in controversy
for the benefit of the United States and as the appropriate action to prevent the threatened loss; and that
"the authority granted by the Act of June 4, 1920, is
sufficient to authorize the lease."
Second: That the Act of June 4, 1920, committed to
the judgment and discretion of the Secretary of the Navy
whether to use, store, exchange, or sell the royalty oils
accruing to the United States under the lease, and that in
the exercise of such judgment and discretion the Secretary disposed of such royalty oils to the lessee, taking from
the lessee in consideration therefor an agreement by the
lessee that it would compensate the United States for the
royalties in either of three ways as the United States

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

21

Argument for Mammoth Oil Co.

might elect, (1) in cash, (2) in fuel oil, (3) in other oil
products suitable for use by the Navy. As to fuel oil
elected to be received in exchange, the United States
might take such oil without containers, or it might, but
only to the extent necessary, also receive containers for
the conservation of the fuel oil received. Therefore, that
"the authority granted by the Act of June 4, 1920, is sufficient to authorize the . . . contract" for the disposition of the royalty oils.
Third: That the existing facts on February 9, 1923,
were such as to authorize the Secretary of the Navy in
the-exercise of his judgment and discretion to exchange
the royalty oils from the leased lands for fuel oils and
other products suitable for naval use, together with containers necessary for the conservation thereof, and, therefore, that "authority granted by the Act of June 4, 1920,
is sufficient to authorize the . . . contract" of
February 9, 1923.
Fourth: That neither of the contracts here involved
was upon an inadequate consideration to the United
States.
Fifth: That there is no general statute requiring competitive bidding in negotiating leases of oil lands of the
. United States or in disposing of its royalty oils; that the
absence of competitive bidding will not render invalid the
lease or the agreement disposing of the royalty oils; that
as to the agreements in relation to such containers as
might be necessary " the Act of June 4, 1920 . . . was
complete in itself and that it did not repeal nor was it
dependent on other acts with relation to the public
lands" . . .; that "This special statute, not repealing
the general statutes, the two stand together, one as the
law relating to a special thing, viz., the naval reservesthe other relating to general public land matters. It was
therefore unnecessary that there be competitive bidding
or advertising as to the making of the lease and contract,

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for the Mammoth Oil Co.

275 U. S.

and other statutes with relation to the method of transacting the general public business of the United States
were not applicable to this situation, the special statute
fully covering the same."
If, however, it be held on any ground that the agreement as to constructing storage facilities is invalid, we
submit that this would not destroy the other valid agreements, but in that case every matter relating to the invalid
agreements must be stricken from the contracts. This
would leave to the United States full compensation and
what it has contracted should be full compensation for
the lease and for the royalty oils which it disposed of to
the lessee.
Where promises are in the alternative, the fact that one
of them is at the time or subsequently becomes legally
impossible of performance, does not relieve the promisor
from performance of the legal promise. Yankton Indians
v. United States, 272 U. S. 351; Jenson v. Toltec Co., 174
Fed. 86; DaCostav. Davis, 1 Bos. & P. 242; Stevens v.
Webb, *' Car. & P. 60; 3 Williston, Contracts, § 1779.
We submit that the finding of the Circuit Court of
Appeals wherein it differs from the finding by the District
Court and upon which it reversed the decree of the District Court, namely, the finding that there was bribery.
of Secretary Fall by the Mammoth Oil Co., or its representative, is not sustained by any evidence, but consists of
inference, drawn not from any fact or circumstance
proved but from numerous other inferences, the basic
inferences themselves having been improperly and
illegitimately drawn.
Mr. Edward H. Chandler, with whom Mr. Ralph W.
Garrett was on the briefs, for petitioners, Sinclair Pipe
Line Co., and Sinclair Crude Oil Purchasing Co.

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

23

Argument for the United States.

Messrs. Owen, J. Roberts and Atlee Pomerene for the
United States.
The lease and contract were fraudulent. Badges of
the fraud and conspiracy were:
1. The policy of conserving the oil in the ground as
long as possible, and of making only protective leases for
offset purposes, was changed to one of exploiting the
whole reserve.
2. The policy of leasing only pursuant to advertisement and competitive bidding was changed to private
negotiation.
3. In the private negotiations with Sinclair, competition for the lease, for the purchase of the royalty oil, and
for the erection of storage tankage, was eliminated.
4. The quit-claiming of placer claims known to be invalid was made a condition precedent to a lease, and only
Sinclair was given any practicable opportunity to secure
the claims.
5. Applicants other than Sinclair for leases were told
no leasing was contemplated or were not given information on which a comparable bid could be made or time in
which to make one.
6. Newspapers, the general public, senators and congressmen were denied information and affirmatively misled to avoid competition and opposition to the plan.
7. Negotiations were so shrouded with secrecy that
even departrhental subordinates did not know what was
being done and did not know of the change in policy.
8. Subleases were clandestinely promised to two persons desirous of territory in the reserve.
9. The possibility of drainage was exaggerated and used
as a justification for the lease, but not in good faith.
10. After doubts as to the legality of the plan were
expressed by eminent attorneys, submission of the ques-

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for the United States.

275 U. S.

tion to the Attorney General or Solicitor for the Interior
Department was studiously avoided.
11. The lease was drafted in secrecy in the office of
Sinclair's attorney.
12. Fall dominated the negotiations leading up to the
making of the lease.
13. The $230,500 Liberty Bond transaction, through
the Continental Trading Co., was a bribe.
14. Neither Sinclair nor Fall was called by appellants
to testify. Everhart claimed privilege against self-incrimination. Other witnesses with knowledge of important
facts refused to testify.
15. Sinclair got a lease estimated to be worth in profits
to his company over $33,000,000.
A public officer is held to the highest standard of good
faith and good morals in all his transactions. He is not
permitted to act from any motives other than the welfare
and advantage of the Government. If motives of a
private or a personal nature sway him, or if he is influenced by personal favoritism and offers preferential
treatment to his friends, such action is immoral, reprehensible, and renders voidable the transactions to which
he thereby purports to bind the Government. Persons
dealing with a government officer are held to an equally
strict standard of morality. They are affected with
knowledge of the limitations upon his powers and may
not benefit in case he exceeds his powers. They may not
do anything to influence him to violate his duty to the
Government. If they induce him to act, or merely know
that he is acting, from personal motives or from a desire
to favor them and give them preferential treatment, they
cannot enforce a contract so made. Personal solicitation which results in preferential treatment constitutes
corruption and collusion, rendering voidable contracts
made as a result of it. Crocker v. United States, 240 U. S.
74; Hume v. United States, 132 U. S. 406; Garman v.

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

25

Argument for the United States.

United States, 34 Ct. Cls. 237; Wash. Irr. Co. v. Krutz,
119 Fed. 279. These cases were cited and relied upon by
this Court in Pan American Co. v. United States, 273
U. S. 456.
The collusion between Sinclair and Fall taints the entire
transaction, and neither the Mammoth Oil Company, nor
any of the other appellants in this case, is entitled to
receive any benefit therefrom. The particular type of
fraud with which we are concerned in the present case is
collusion between an agent and a third party dealing with
that agent. The fraud consists of improper motives upon
which the third party induces the agent to act and as a
result of which the agent does act in whole or in part.
This is a different type of fraud from that which exists
when false representations are made by one party to
another upon which the second party relies and which are
not in accordance with the truth.
In fraud arising from false representations the representationis an objective fact, the proof of which is within
the knowledge of the injured party. The true state of
facts is also capable of objective proof, which is usually
not difficult to obtain. The only remaining element of
proof necessary to establish the fraud is the knowledge
of the falsity of the representation. It is clear that fraud
of, this type is more easily capable of proof than is fraud
involving no objective representations.
The gist of fraud that consists solely in collusion is the
inducing to act on the one side and the action on the
other side from improper motives. Most of the dealings
take place between the conspirators who have a common
interest to continue to conceal their actions and their
motives. There are no representations to the injured
party which can be laid hold of as a basis of objective
proof. The injured party must make up his proof out of
a chain of circumstances which, taken as a whole, will
show that the conspirators acted from improper motives.

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for the United States.

275 U. S.

When the proofs in the present case are examined in the
light of proof that is reasonably possible, they are seen to
be clear and convincing. The primary facts proved are
substantially uncontradicted. There is no conflict in the
testimony of witnesses as to the facts in evidence, nor is
there any question as to the credibility of the Government's witnesses. The ultimate facts result from inferences arising upon the uncontradicted facts in evidence.
Those inferences depend principally upon the common
sense knowledge of the motives and actions of men in
circumstances like the present.
It is not necessary that the fraud should be established
beyond a reasonable doubt. It is merely necessary that
the court should be of the opinion that a reasonable man
would infer from the facts proved that the transaction
was fraudulent. These principles for which we contend
are supported by authority. Rea v. Missouri, 17 Wall.
532; Glaspie v. Keator, 56 Fed. 203; Drake v. Stewart, 76
Fed. 140; Drennen v. Southern Fire Ins. Co., 252 Fed.
776; Attorney General v. Pelletier,240 Mass. 264; Lumpkin v. Foley, 204 Fed. 372; Ware v. United States, 154
Fed. 577; Castle v. Bullard, 23 How. 172.
The silence of Sinclair is evidence of fraud. It is a
fact to be considered not only in connection with The
Continental Trading Company transaction, 1 ut also in
connection with the negotiations for the lease and contract. Sinclair's silence is to be weighed in connection
with his visit to Fall's home at Three Rivers, at the end of
December, 1921, and with his curious appearance on the
scene as the man of opportunity just prior to his offer of
February 3, 1922. It is to be weighed in connection with
his undue intimacy with Fall as further revealed by
their many private conferences, their private "deals"
over acreage for Shaffer and Hughes, and their private
arrangement for the purchase and tender of the Pioneer
and Belgo placer mining claims. Sinclair's silence must

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

27

Argument for the United States.

be weighed in connection with the unusual and unique
character of the entire negotiations between Fall and the
man with whom he, as a government official, could deal
in any honest way only at arms' length. Finally, but
coincident with the unusual and suspicious chain of other
circumstances, is Fall's proved accession of wealth from
a source which reasonably narrows down to less than half
a dozen men, of whom Sinclair was the only one shown to
be then having dealings of any sort with Fall.
The weight to be given to the silence of a party to a
cause is a matter of common sense rather than the result
of a metaphysical concept. If no suspicious facts are
proved, obviously no adverse inferences arise from the
silence of a party. In direct proportion as the number
and curious coincidence of suspicious facts increase, so
also increases the weight to be given to a party's failure
to explain such of those facts as are peculiarly within his
control and knowledge. Bilokumsky v. Todd, 263 U. S.
149; United States v. Commr. of Immigration, 273 U. S.
103; Runkle v. Burnham, 153 U. S. 216; Penna. R. R. v.
Anoka Bank, 108 Fed. 482; Missouri &c. R. R. v. Elliott,
102 Fed. 96; affd. 184 U. S. 695; Glaspie v. Keator, 56
Fed. 203; Hansel v. Purnell, 1 F. (2d) 266; 266 U. S. 617;
Attorney General v. Pelletier, 240 Mass. 264; United
States v. Carter,217 U. S. 286; The New York, 175 U. S.
187; Kirby v. Talmadge, 160 U. S. 379; Buick v. United
States, 275 Fed. 809; Hill v. United States, 234 Fed. 39;
Gulf Ry. v. Ellis, 54 Fed. 481; Hyams v. Calumet Min.
Co., 221 Fed. 529; Weed v. Lyons Pet. Co., 294 Fed. 725;
affd. 300 Fed. 1005; Nelson v. New York, 131 N. Y. 4;
Keller v. Gill, 92 Md. 190.
The finding of bribery as one of the elements of fraud,
is sustained by the proofs, and is not based on improper
inferences or presumptions. Appellants' contention that
an inference or conclusion cannot be based upon a rebuttable inference or presumption must be limited in its

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for the United States.

275 U. S.

application to rebuttable inferences and presumptions of
law. This proposition must be limited to such inferences
as that men are to be considered honest and faithful to
their duties until some evidence is offered that the men
concerned were not honest and faithful; that a man
exercised ordinary care for his own safety and was not
guilty of negligence until some evidence to the contrary
is introduced, etc. The cases cited by the appellants are
of this type. United States v. Ross, 92 U. S. 281; Manning v. Insurance Co., 100 U. S. 693; Looney v. Met. Ry.
Co., 200 U. S. 480. But proved facts and circumstances,
although disconnected, may support an inference or conclusion involving intermediate inferences and conclusions
of fact. Unless this were so a very large portion of cases
which must be proven, if at all, by circumstantial evidence would fail. And almost invariably, fraud and
conspiracy cases must be proven by circumstantial evidence. The oft repeated statements of courts that a wide
latitude must be allowed in the introduction of evidence
and circumstances in fraud and conspiracy cases would
otherwise be practically valueless. Cooper v. United
States, 9 F. (2d) 216; Dimmick v. United States, 135
Fed. 257; State v. Fiore, 85 N. J. L. 311; Hinshaw v.
State, 147 Ind. 334; Wigmore, Evidence, 2d ed., vol.
1, § 41.
The lease and contract are illegal. The real purpose of
the lease was to provide fuel depots on the Atlantic Coast
and to obtain for the benefit of the United States the
construction of a pipe line to serve this dome and other
territory of the United States not set apart for the use
of the Navy.
The alleged severability of the lease and contract: This
lease was made by officers of the United States who on its
behalf purported to grant the lease on conditions and
covenants made by the lessee as a consideration for that
grant. One of those covenants was, and the officers who

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

29

Argument for the United States.

made the lease required that it should be, that the lessee
upon demand would build steel tankage in exchange for
the royalty oil. From analysis of the lease and contract,
we believe that this Court will conclude in this case, as it
did in the Pan American case, that: "The contracts and
leases and all that was done under them are so interwoven
that they constitute a single transaction not authorized
by law and consummated by conspiracy, corruption and
fraud." It does not lie in the mouth of appellants to ask
a court to rewrite the document and fasten upon the Government a lease wholly different from that which the
officers of the Government attempted to make for it.
Hazleton v. Scheckells, 202 U. S. 71; McMullen v. Hoffman, 174 U. S. 639; Lingle v. Snyder, 160 Fed. 627; Western Ind. Co. v. Crafts, 240 Fed. 1; Townes v. Townes, 270
Fed. 744; Central R. R. of N. J. v. United Pipe Line Co.,
290 Fed. 983; Linebarger v. Devine, 47 Nev. 67; Orenstein v. Kahn, 13 Del. Ch. 376; LaFrance v. Cullen, 196
Mich. 72G; Williston, Sales, vol. 2, § 681; 13 C. J., § 471.
The making of the acquirement of the placer mining
claims a part of the consideration was unlawful and voids
the whole lease.
The award of the lease and contract without advertisement and competitive bidding was unlawful.
The lease and contract contemplated the erection of
fuel depots not authorized by Congress.
The Sinclair Crude Oil Purchasing Company and Sinclair Pipe Line Company are not entitled to any modification of the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
These appellants participated in the violation of the
public policy of the United States involved in the lease
to Mammoth Oil Company. Parties to illegal contracts
subversive of the public policy of the Government are not
entitled to any equity or to any consideration or to the
value of their improvements. Causey v. United States,
240 U. S. 339; United States v. Trinidad Coal Co., 137
U. S. 160; Heckman v. United States, 224 U. S. 413.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

275 U.S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This suit was brought by the United States against the
petitioners in the District Court of Wyoming to secure
the cancelation of an oil and gas lease made by the United
States to the Mammoth Oil Company April 7, 1922, and
to set aside a supplemental agreement made by the same
parties February 9, 1923. An accounting and possession
of the leased lands and general relief were also demanded.
The complaint alleged that the lease and agreement were
made without authority of law and in consummation of a
conspiracy to defraud the United States. The District
Court held that the transaction was authorized by the Act
of June 4, 1920, c. 228, 41 Stat. 812, 813, found that there
was no fraud, and dismissed the case. 5 F. (2d) 330. The
Circuit Court of Appeals sustained that construction of
the Act; but on an examination of the evidence, held that
the lease and .agreement were obtained by fraud and corruption, reversed the decree and directed the District
Court to enter one canceling the lease and agreement as
fraudulent, enjoining petitioners from further trespassing
on the leased lands and providing for an accounting by
the Mammoth Oil Company for all oil and other petroleum products taken under the lease and contract. 14 F.
(2d) 705.
The lease covered 9,321 acres in Natrona County, Wyoming-commonly known as Teapot Dome-being Naval
Reserve. No. 3 created April 30, 1915, by an executive
order of the President made pursuant to the Act of June
25, 1910, c. 421, 36 Stat. 847, as amended August 24, 1912,
c. 369, 37 Stat. 497. The part of the Act of June 4, 1920
relied on to sustain the lease contains the following:
"Provided, That the Secretary of the Navy is directed to
take possession of all properties within the naval petroleum reserves . . . to conserve, develop, use, and operate the same in his discretion, directly or by contract,
lease, or otherwise, and to use, store, exchange, or sell the

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

31

Opinion of the Court.

oil and gas products thereof, and those from all royalty
oil from lands in the naval reserves, for the benefit of the
United States: . . . And provided further, That such
sums as have been or may be turned into the Treasury of
the United States from royalties on lands within the naval
petroleum reserves prior to July 1, 1921, not to exceed
$500,000, are hereby made available for this purpose until
July 1, 1922."
March 5, 1921, Edwin Denby became Secretary of the
Navy and Albert B. Fall, Secretary of the Interior. May
31, 1921, the President made an order purporting to commit the administration of all oil and gas bearing lands in
the naval reserves to the Secretary of the Interior, subject
to the-supervision of the President. The lease and agreement were signed for the United States by Fall as Secretary of the Interior and by Denby as Secretary of the
Navy. The evidence shows that the latter was fully informed as to the substance of the transaction, and it is
not necessary here to consider the validity or effect of the
executive order.
The purpose and scope of the lease and agreement may
be indicated by a statement of their principal features.
The preamble to the lease stated that it was the duty of
the Government to secure and store oil for the Navy; that
the Government desired to avoid the loss of oil resulting
from the drilling of wells outside the reserve, to create a
market and receive the best prices obtainable for royalty
oil from the Salt Creek field [adjoining the reserve on the
north], to exchange royalty oil from the reserve for fuel
oil for the Navy and to secure facilities for the storage of
such fuel oil; and that the Government proposed to secure
these objects by entering into a contract providing for the
development and exploitation of the oil and gas within
the reserve and for the construction of a pipe line, if
necessary, for the transportation of royalty oil from the
reserve and from the Salt Creek field,

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

The lease granted to the company the exclusive right
to take and dispose of oil and gas so long as produced in
paying quantities. The lessee agreed to drill test wells
and, after their completion, fully to develop the reserve,
to construct, or cause its nominee to construct, a common
carrier pipe line [about 1,000 miles in length] from the
leased lands to a line from the mid-continent field to
Chicago; to pay as royalties specified percentages of products taken from the land; to purchase all royalty oil when
and as produced, and in payment to set up an oil exchange
credit to the lessor and issue certificates showing the
amount and value of royalty oil received by lessee. It
was provided that lessee would redeem the certificates by
giving lessor credit on its obligations to lessee for the construction of tanks to store fuel oil for the Navy under the
agreement contained in the lease for the exchange of
crude oil for fuel oil storage, or by delivering to lessor fuel
oil or other products of petroleum for the use of the Navy,
or by cash under certain conditions. And it was agreed
that the lessee, when requested by the lessor, would construct or pay the cost of constructing steel tanks necessary for such storage; that lessor would pay in oil certificates of face value equal to such cost; that in exchange
for crude oil lessee would deliver fuel oil and other petroleum products for the Navy at places * on the Atlantic
Coast, the Gulf of Mexico, and at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba. Lessee agreed diligently to drill and continue operation of oil wells unless by the Secretary of the Interior
Houston, Tex.
Pensacola, Fla.
New Orleans, La.
Charleston, S. C.
Annapolis, Md.
Indian Head, Md.
New York, N. Y.
Machias, Me.
Portsmouth, N. H.
*

Norfolk, Va.
Boston, Mass.
Melville, R. I.
Philadelphia, Pa.
Bath, Me.
Woods Hole, Mass.
New Haven, Conn.
Rockland, Me.
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Quincy, Mass.
Key West, Fla.
Block Island, R. I.
New London, Conn.
Mobile, Ala.
Bridgeport, Conn.
Washington, D. C.
Fall River, Mass.
Baltimore, Md.

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

33

Opinion of the Court.

permitted temporarily to suspend operations. And it was
provided that, with the consent of the Secretary of the
Interior, the lease might be terminated. By a separate
agreement dated December 20, 1922, the lessee designated, and the lessor accepted, the Sinclair Pipe Line
Company as the nominee of lessee to construct the pipe
line, having a daily capacity of 40.000 barrels.
The supplemental agreement of February 9, 1923, relates to storage tanks to be provided by the lessee. It
deals with four projects covering construction work at
Portsmouth, Melville, Boston and Yorktown. The total
capacity-some expressed in tons and some in gallons-to
be constructed at these places was sufficient to store
2,550,000 tons of fuel oil, 37,500 tons and 625,000 gallons
of Diesel oil, 26,500 tons and 2,330,000 gallons of gasoline,
13,800 tons and 1,161,000 gallons of lubricating oil. The
lessee agreed to provide the tanks and fill them in exchange for royalty oil certificates. The Government was
not obligated to lessee otherwise than to deliver it oil
certificates for redemption in accordance with the lease,
and until the agreement was fully performed all certificates received by the Government were to be used for
constructing and filling storage for fuel oil and other
petroleum products. And it was further provided that
upon completion of these projects other facilities for the
storage of petroleum products required by the Navy were
to be constructed and filled by the lessee.
The evidence shows that the storage facilities to be
furnished under the lease were to be complete reserve fuel
stations, such as are known in the Appropriation Acts as
"fuel depots "; that the arrangement to use royalty oil
to pay for 'such construction was made for the purpose of
evading the requirement that the proceeds of the royalty
oil, if sold, be paid into the Treasury, and to enable the
Secretary of the Navy to locate, plan and have constructed fuel stations that had ndt been authorized by
83583°-28------3

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

Congress; that the approximate cost of construction so to
be done on the Atlantic Coast would be at least $25,000,000, of that on the Pacific under arrangement with
the Pan American Petroleum and Transport Company
$15,000,000, and for the whole program-including the
products to be put into these fuel depots when constructed-a little in excess of $100,000,000. The cost of
the pipe line is not included in any of these figures. It
was not deemed to be a facility merely for the development of the reserve; but was desired by those acting for
the Government for the transportation of oil obtained in
that part of the country, to create competition in the oil
market, and as an instrumentality for national defense in
case of war.
A construction of the Act authorizing the agreed disposition of the reserve would conflict with the policy of
the Government to maintain in the ground a great reserve
of oil for the Navy. Joint Resolution, approved February 8, 1024, 43 Stat. 5. It would restore to the Secretary of the Navy authority, of which he had recently
been deprived, to construct fuel depots without express authority of Congress. Act of August 31, 1842,
5 Stat. 577, (R. S. § 1552); Act of March 4, 1913, 37
Stat. 891. It would put facilities of the kind specified
outside the operation of the general rule prohibiting the
making of contracts of purchase or for construction work
in the absence of express authority and adequate appropriations therefor. R. S. §§ 3732, 3733; Act of June 12,
1906, 34 Stat. 240, 255; Act of June 30, 1906, 34 Stat.
697, 764. It would be inconsistent with the principle
upon which rests the law requiring purchase money received on the sale of government property to be paid into
the Treasury. R. S. §§ 3617, 3618. While, in order to make
the petroleum products available for the Navy, the Act
,deals with reserve lands as a separate class, there is
nothing to indicate a legislative purpose to reverse the

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

35

Opinion of the Court.

policy of conservation or to relax the safeguards as to
fuel depots and contracts for their construction, set by
prior legislation. The authority to "store" or to "exchange" does not empower the Secretary of the Navy to
use the reserves to regulate or affect the price of oil in the
Salt Creek field or to induce or aid construction of a pipe
line to serve that territory. And it does not authorize the
Secretary to locate the fuel stations provided for or to use
the crude oil to pay for them. The Mammoth Oil Company insists that, even if other elements be held uriauthorized, the transaction may be sustained as a lease
granting the right to take the oil and gas in consideration
of the development of the property and delivery of the
royalty oils or the equivalent in cash. That view cannot
prevail. The percentages of the product to be retained by
the lessee includes the consideration, however indeterminate in amount, for the construction of the pipe line.
Presumably, the lessee's undertaking to provide it induced the lessor to accept less than otherwise would have
been asked or given. Cf. Hazelton v. Sheckells, 202
U. S. 71.
So far as concerns the power under the Act of June 4,
1920 to make them, the lease and agreement now before
the court cannot be distinguished from those held to have
been made without authority of law in Pan American
Petroleum and rransportCompany v. United States, 273
U. S. 456. And the United States is entitled to have them
canceled.
Were the lease and supplemental agreement fraudulently made?
The decisions below are in conflict, and we have considered the evidence to determine whether it establishes
the charge. The complaint states that the lease and
agreement were made as the result of a conspiracy by
Fall and H. F. Sinclair to defraud the United States; that
Fall acted for the United States and Sinclair acted for

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

the Mammoth Oil Company; that the negotiations were
secret and the lease was made without competition; that
responsible persons and corporations desiring to obtain
leases were by Fall in collusion with Sinclair denied
opportunity to become competitors of the Mammoth
Company; that a company known as the Pioneer Oil
Company asserted a mining claim to lands in the reserve;
that the claim was worthless and known to be so by Fall;
that he had Sinclair procure a quitclaim deed covering
the valueless claim and, then, to make it impossible for
others to compete with Sinclair's company, Fall made its
transfer condition the granting of the lease; that Fall
agreed with one Shaffer that Sinclair would cause a part
of the leased lands to be set aside for the benefit of
Shaffer, and required Sinclair, in order to get the lease for
the Mammoth Company, to agree that Shaffer should
have a sublease on some of the land; that before and
after the making of the lease Fall kept the negotiations
and execution secret from his associates, the Congress
and the public. And, in general terms, the complaint
charges that Fall and Sinclair conspired to defraud the
Government by making the lease without authority and
in violation of law and to favor and prefer the Mammoth
Company over others.
As is usual in cases where conspiracy to defraud is
involved, there is here no direct evidence of the corrupt
arrangement. Neither of the alleged conspirators was
called as a witness. The question is whether the disclosed circumstances prove the charge. When Fall becane Secretary, Reserve No. 3 had already attracted the
attention of oil operators. His predecessor, Secretary
Payne, had arranged to offer highest bidders 15 leases in
the Salt Creek field. These covered areas ranging from
160 to 640 acres, amounting in all to 6,400 acres. The
royalties averaged 28.76 per cent. June 15, 1921, the
leases were auctioned. Bonuses offered in excess of the

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

37

Opinion of the Court.

specified royalties amounted in all to $1,687,000, and the
leases were granted on that basis. That field was very
productive. The reserve compared favorably with it, and
was considered very attractive by all having knowledge
of the structure. Obviously oil men would be interested
in the opening of the reserve and the putting of its product on the market.
From the beginning Fall was keen to control the leasing
of the naval petroleum reserves. Commander H. A.
Stuart had been put in charge of naval reserve matters by
Secretary Daniels; he continued as special aide to Denby,
and was well qualified for that service. Early in. April,
1921, Fall asked Assistant Secretary Edward C. Finney,
who had long been in the Interior Department, to suggest
someone who could handle naval reserve matters. Finney
recommended, and Fall appointed, Doctor W. C. Mendenhall of the Geological Survey. Early in May, Fall had a
memorandum prepared by Finney to disclose what power
or authority in respect of the reserves could be delegated
to Fall. Finney reported that the President might commit to the Secretary of the Interior the authorization of
such additional wells or leases within the naval reserves
as the President by § 18 of the Leasing Act was empowered to permit or grant; that under the Act of June 4,
1920, the Secretary of the Navy might request him to
handle the conservation. development and operation of
the naval reserves. And May 11, Fall sent Denby aletter
inclosing for his approval a draft of a proposed executive
order and a form of letter addressed to the President to be
signed by Denby, requesting that the order be made. Fall
said: " Referring to our conversation yesterday, and to
your suggestion to the President that the Secretary of the
Interior be placed in charge of administration of the laws
relating to naval reserves, I am submitting herewith for
your consideration a brief memorandum stating the facts
and law with respect to naval reserves, a tentative form

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the CQurt.

275 U. S.

of letter for your signature if it meets with your approval,
and a form of Executive order for the President's signature if it meets your suggestions of yesterday . . . If
they meet with your approval and no changes occur to
you, kindly return them with your approval, in order that
the matter may be taken up with the President." While
this letter contains language calculated to indicate that
Denby initiated the matter, the context and attending
facts clearly show that Fall was eager to get the authority
proposed to be given him.
Denby was not called as a witness, but the circumstances indicate that he intended to be passive and let
Fall dominate. He sent Fall's form of executive order to
Assistant Secretary Roosevelt and the Chief of the Bureau
of Engineering, Admiral R. S. Griffin. After consideration of the matter by them and other officers of the Navy,
including Commanders Stuart, J. F. Shafroth and E. A.
Cobey, the Assistant Secretary told Denby that he
thought that the property should not be turned over to
the Interior Department. Denby replied that the matter
had been decided by the President, Fall and himself.
Later the Assistant Secretary took to Denby a suggestion,
prepared by him and his associates, for the amendment of
the proposed order. Denby said: "If you can get Fall
to agree to this modification, then it will be all right with
me." Fall agreed to the change, and the President signed
the form of order as amended. Its pertinent provisions
follow: "The administration and conservation of all oil
and gas bearing lands in naval petroleum reserves .
are hereby committed to the Secretary of the Interior subject to the supervision of the President, but no general
policy as to drilling or reserving lands located in a naval
reserve shall be changed or adopted except upon consultation and in co~peration with the Secretary or Acting Secretary of the Navy." We italicize words added as a result
of the suggestion of Denby's subordinates. The executive

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

39

Opinion of the Court.

order as signed by the President was what Fall wanted
and, so far as concerns the matters here involved, it was
not substantially different from the draft he submitted to
Denby.
Soon after the order was made, 22 offset wells in Reserve No. 1 were given to companies represented by E. L.
Doheny and one McMurray, respectively. In connection
with that matter Fall had some trouble with Mendenhall
and Stuart and expressed himself as "dissatisfied with
both of them." Thereafter, neither of them was given
anything to do in respect of reserve leases. July 8, 1921,
Fall wrote Doheny a letter containing the following:
"There will be no possibility of any further conflict with
Navy officials and this Department, as I have notified
Secretary Denby that I should conduct the matter of
naval leases, under the direction of the President, without
calling any of his force in consultation unless I conferred
with himself personally upon a matter of policy. He
understands the situation and that I shall handle matters
exactly as I think best and will not consult with any officials of any bureau of his department, but only with himself, and such consultation will be confined strictly and
entirely to matters of general policy." This exultant
declaration that he was in position to handle these vast
properties as he pleased discredits Fall. His desire to get
control of the reserves and then so proclaim that he had it
strongly suggests that he was willing to conspire against
the public interest. And that inference is confirmed by
his subsequent conduct.
.By letter to Denby of July 23, Fall suggested the
thought that royalty oil might be used to pay for fuel
depots to be located and planned by the Navy. That
idea seems not to have originated in the Navy. Such use
of royalty oil was an essential element in any arrangement involving the prompt exhaustion of the reserves.
It was the foundation of the scheme culminating in the
lease. Denby by letter to Fall of July 29 indicated his

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

acquiescence. Soon thereafter Fall left Washington for
the West, declaring that he was going to discuss the
matter with oil men "with the idea of working up some
such arrangement." He returned about the middle of
October. In the meantime Admiral John K. Robison
was appointed to succeed Admiral Griffin as Chief of the
Engineering Bureau. Denby directed Robison to take
personal charge of all naval petroleum matters. Commander Stuart was relieved from all duties in reference to
them. The record shows no reason for the removal of
Stuart, but it does appear that Fall favored the change
and that Denby knew it.
Immediately after he was given charge, Robison investigated and found that Reserves Nos. 1 and 2 were
suffering loss from drainage and that Reserve No. 3 was
not. He testified that he thought the latter pretty secure
but not absolutely so. He read Fall's letter of July 23,
suggesting the use of royalty oil to pay for storage tanks,
and he made working arrangements with Fall, which
were confirmed by a letter of October 25, prepared by
Robison and signed by Denby and sent to Fall. They
agreed that Fall was to control the making of all leases
for the drilling of wells in the naval reserves and for the
disposition of the products; that he would have necessary
offset wells drilled in Reserves Nos. 1 and 2, but that the
development of Reserve No. 3 would not be undertaken
except to protect it against depletion by others; that the
Navy was to receive fuel oil for royalty oil; that so much
of the royalty oil as was not exchanged for fuel oil would
be used to-obtain storage at places to be designated by the
Navy; and that the terms of the conversion should be
submitted to the Navy for approval as to qualities, deliveries, engineering and other features involved.
Denby did not actively participate; but, in conferences
with Fall, he was represented by Robison. Fall personally conducted the negotiations with Sinclair. And

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

41

Opinion of the Court.

he contemporaneously arranged with Doheny the contract that was set aside for fraud in the Pan American
Case, supra. Under the Secretary, Finney usually acted
for the United States in making oil and gas leases, and he
was authorized to sign them. But he was not consulted
as to the terms of the naval reserve leases made to the
Mammoth Company represented by Sinclair or to the
Pan American Petroleum and Transport Company represented by Doheny. Robison through Fall undoubtedly
exerted influence as to the provisions for the pipe line and
fuel stations, but Fall acted for the United States and
dominated in all matters substantially affecting the value
of the lease. And it is significant that by the terms of
the lease the Secretary of the Interior was authorized to
permit the lessee temporarily to suspend production or to
assign or terminate the lease.
November 30, at a meeting of the Secretary's Council,
consisting of important officers in the Navy, Robison
advised, and it was decided, that the oil reserves should
not be used to supply fuel oil for current use. He urged
that leases be made and royalty oil exchanged for fuel
oil and storage constructed by the lessees at places to be
designated by the Navy. Denby at first queried whether
the exchange was authorized by law, and Robison called
for the advice of the Judge Advocate General of the
Navy. He answered affirmatively and, in the course of
his opinion, said: "The authority granted 'to exchange'
is unrestricted; i. e. the Act does not specify nor limit
what may be taken in exchange for the oil and its products." Denby approved the opinion and authorized the
proposed exchange. Robison prepared a letter which
Denby signed and sent to Fall, quoting the Judge Advocate General, and stating that Denby desired the Interior
Department to make exchanges of crude oil for fuel oil
and storage and that Robison had been designated to
handle the details.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

Then Fall went to his ranch at Three Rivers, New
Mexico, where, December 31, came Sinclair and his
counsel, J. W. Zevely, to see him-as the latter testifiedon some business connected with Osage Indian leases.
They remained two days. The showing as to what transpired concerning the Teapot Dome is meager. The
record contains no statement from Fall or Sinclair. H. F.
Bain, Director of the Bureau of Mines, was there for a
day, but the leasing of the reserve was not mentioned in
his hearing. Zevely testified that he was not sure
whether the subject was mentioned in his presence, but he
thought inquiry was made of Fall as to whether he would
lease the Teapot Dome and that Fall said he was having
an investigation made "and upon that report he would
probably determine whether or not he would lease " it.
Nothing more is directly disclosed. But, soon after Fall
and Sinclair met at the ranch, Fall caused his office force
to investigate pending claims to land in the reserve
and directed a report to be made to him on his return.
Evidently he was considering leasing the reserve as a
whole.
Fall reached Washington January 27 and, after conference with Robison, it was decided to develop all of Reserve No. 3. He sent for Sinclair and Zevely and had
Robison tell them what would be necessary in any proposal for a lease. Robison told Sinclair that the whole
reserve should be developed, that a pipe line adequate to
serve the field should be constructed, and that royalty oil
should be used to obtain fuel oil and to pay for storage
facilities. And February 3, Sinclair wrote to Fall, stating
that he was willing to take out all the oil in the reserve
on a royalty basis and specifying features substantially
the same as those suggested to him by Robison. He also
proposed to quiet all outstanding claims and so enable the
Government to make one lease covering the whole reserve.
His letter argued against granting leases by auction, as-

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

43

Opinion of the Court.

serted that the. reserve was being drained, and insisted
that it was better to have oil stored where needed than to
keep the reserve underground. On receipt, of the letter,
Fall conferred with Sinclair and directed Arthur W.
Ambrose, chief petroleum technologist of the Department,
to give him an estimate of the quantity of oil in the
reserve and " some idea as to the possibilities of drainage." February 18, Ambrose reported that he estimated
360,270,000 barrels in the Salt Creek field and 135,050,000
barrels in the reserve. His report disclosed no immediate
danger of drainage but only a possibility of loss " during
the next six or seven years." About that date Fall called
Ambrose into his office where Sinclair and Zevely were
and, outlining certain provisions he wanted, directed that
a draft of lease be prepared. The work of preparation
required two or three weeks, and most of it was done in
Zevely's office in Washington. Questions concerning its
provisions arising from time to time were referred to Fall
and Sinclair; they settled all the terms of the lease. The
draft was not submitted to any lawyer in the Interior
Department.
The Pioneer Oil and Refining Qompany and the Societe
Belgo-Americaine des Petroles du Wyoming had asserted
placer mining claims to lands in the reserve. In 1917, the
Department fully investigated and found these claims
were without merit. In 1920, Secretary Payne held them
invalid and denied application for a lease. In March,
1921, Assistant Secretary Finney dismissed claimants'
petition for rehearing. Later, they filed a petition to
invoke the supervisory power of the Secretary. Answering an inquiry from Fall, Finney told him that the claims
"had no validity and no standing." The last petition had
not been heard when Fall and Sinclair met at the ranch.
The report that Fall called for was ready before he returned to Washington; it stated that there were no claims
deserving serious consideration. Obviously Sinclair's -pro-

44

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

posal to quiet outstanding claims was the result of an
understanding with Fall.
February 28, 1922, Sinclair caused the Mammoth Company to be organized. It promptly, obtained from the
Pioneer and Belgo companies quitclaim deeds of all the
reserve lands, and agreed with them that, in the event of
obtaining a lease covering the lands, it would pay them
$200,000 within 18 months and $800,000 more out of onethird of the value of the gross production less royalties.
March 11, Sinclair wrote Fall submitting the Mammoth
Company's formal application for a lease. He said that,
if the lease were granted, he would become owner of all
the capital stock of the company and would personally
guarantee performance of the contract. He submitted a
form of lease-presumably that already prepared in co6peration with Fall-and inclosed the company's quitclaim
deed to the United States of all that was conveyed to it
by the Pioneer and Belgo companies. The record shows
that, after he knew that the Mammoth had obtained
these deeds, Fall told some who sought to lease the reserve
that he would require the lessee to satisfy or clear up outstanding claims. In March, after much time had been
spent in preparing the lease, Fall told a representative of
a company seeking a lease that he was not ready at that
time to consider leasing the reserve and that, if he did so
decide, he would notify the applicant. To one acting for
another company, who called about April 10 to submit an
offer for a lease, Fall indicated that he would entertain a
bid and said that he would be glad to see representatives
of the company at Three Rivers. The lease had been
signed by Fall April 7.
March 16, 1922, John C. Shaffer called on Fall concerning an earlier application for a lease covering a specified
tract of 600 acres in the reserve. Fall said he was then
negotiating with Sinclair for a lease covering the reserve.
Shaffer insisted upon having some of it, and Fall said he
had told Sinclair to set aside 200 acres for Shaffer. And

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

45

Opinion of the Court.

when Shaffer demanded more, Fall advised him to see
Sinclair, adding, "I think you will find him a very
reasonable man, and you probably will make satisfactory
arrangements with him." Shaffer went to New York and
saw Sinclair. The latter said that Fall had told him to
reserve 200 acres for Shaffer. Shaffer demanded 600
acres, protracted negotiations between them followed,
and it does not appear that any agreement was ever
reached. Fall's arrangement with Sinclair for a sublease
to Shaffer was extraordinary and indicates that he had
favored the Mammoth Company and that Sinclair on
that account had assumed obligations not expressed in
the lease.
About March 30 a rough draft of the lease was given
Robison. April 7, Fall signed as Secretary of the Interior
and "for the Secretary of the Navy." It was thought
desirable, whether necessary or not, that Denby should
sign; and, about April 12, he did so. Then Fall, about to
leave for New Mexico, told Finney that the lease had
been executed, and locked it and copies in his desk. He
said that "he didn't want it to get out" until after the
consummation of the contract (that set aside in the Pan
American case) for the construction of storage tanks, etc.,
at Pearl Harbor. He wrote Denby inclosing a copy and
stating that delivery of the lease had been made to the
lessee; that he had instructed his office force to give out
nothing; that he was particularly anxious that no details
should be disclosed pending the completion of the other
contract. And, in order to support his refusal to furnish
a senator information concerning these contracts, Fall
insisted that they should not be given out because military plans were involved. After Fall left, inquiries were
made at the Department, but all information was withheld. When demand became more insistent, Fall wired
his office to notify Sinclair to furnish a surety company
bond "in view of congressional agitation" instead of Sin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

clair's personal bond theretofore accepted. About April
21, information concerning the lease was given in response
to a Senate resolution. There was never any legitimate
reason for secrecy.
The Mammoth Company insists that the lease was
made to protect the reserve from loss by drainage. The
trial court did not pass upon the matter. The Circuit
Court of Appeals found there was a remote but not immediate danger. It said (p. 719): "The drainage danger
was unquestionably not imminent enough to force immediate action in the leasing of the entire property."
That fact is satisfactorily established. A discussion of
the evidence is not necessary. The circumstances, terms
of the arrangement and testimony of witnesses show that
the lease and agreement were not made to prevent drainage. While the negotiations were pending, Fall and Sinclair indicated that they thought such danger existed, but
the evidence warrants a finding that their expressions were
made in bad faith to make it appear that there was a
reason for the exhaustion of the reserve and the proposed
disposition of its products.
In January, 1922, Fall was informed that counsel for
certain oil companies had held that the use of royalty
oil to pay for fuel depots was not authorized by law. He
expressed fear that, because of the "question as to the
legality of bartering of royalty oil for storage, people
would not bid for this contract and lease in California."
But he refused to submit the question to the Attorney
General; and, as a reason for not taking such legal advice,
said that "the chances were at least even, or at least there
was some chance" that an adverse opinion would be given
"and if the Attorney General signed such an opinion
he [Fall] would be estopped from doing anything." And, on April 12, the day that Denby signed the
lease, Fall asked him to procure the adoption of an amendment to the pending naval appropriation bill, providing

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

47

Opinion of the Court.

that storage for fuel oil from the reserves might be obtained by exchange of oil or by use of cash received for
royalty oil sold. Fall sent Denby a draft of the amendment and undoubtedly thought its adoption would
authorize the exchange of oil for the storage facilities contemplated by the lease. Under the circumstances, his
failure to submit the lease to the Attorney General or to
any lawyer in his own Department indicates that he knew
that the transaction was liable to be condemned as illegal,
and that, without regard to the law, he intended to put it
through.
Shortly after the making of the lease, Fall received from
a hidden source a large amount of Liberty Bonds, and
others were used for his benefit. The substance of the
disclosed circumstances follows. A. E. Humphreys controlled two oil producing companies. H. M. Blackmer
was chairman of the board of the Midwest Refining Company, a subsidiary of the Standard Oil Company of Indiana. ".The latter and the Sinclair Consolidated Oil Corporation owned share and share alike the Pipe Line Company and Purchasing Company. November 15 [1921],
Humphreys, his counsel Charles S. Thomas, Blackmer,
Sinclair, and James E. O'Neil, president of the Prairie Oil
and Gas Company, met in New York. It was there
understood that Humphreys' companies would sell to
Blackmer at $1.50 a barrel half their production up to
33,333,333 barrels, and also that they would sell at prices
current in the field to the Prairie Company, and the Purchasing Company half the production after delivery "of
the oil so sold to Blackmer. The same persons and R. W.
Stewart, president of the Standard Oil Company of
Indiana, met the next day. It was then understood that,
instead of Blackmer, the Continental Trading Company
Ltd. would be the purchaser in the first transaction and
that performance on its part would be guaranteed by the
Prairie Company and the Purchasing Company. The

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

papers were so drawn. On the same day, Henry Smith
Osler, a barrister of Toronto, caused application to be
made to the Secretary of State for Canada for the incorporation of the Continental Company. The next day, he
attended a meeting of the same persons and executed the
contract on behalf of that company. Its performance
was guaranteed as arranged, O'Neil acting for the Prairie
Company and Sinclair and Stewart for the Purchasing
Company. At the same time the Continental Company
and these guarantors made a contract by which the latter
bought all the oil so purchased by the Continental Company and assumed all its obligations. On the price basis
specified, the gain of the Continental would be at least 25
cents per barrel and under some circumstances might be
more. The Continental was to receive payments for the
oil on the tenth of each month, but was not bound to pay
the producers before the fifteenth. So it was assured
profit of at least 25 cents per barrel without financing or
effort of any kind. As permitted by Canada law, it issued
share warrants to bearer with dividend coupons attached;
except for qualifying shares, it put out no stock, did no
other business, and kept no accounts. All its financial
transactions were handled by the New York agency of the
Dominion Bank of Canada. There was found no record
disclosing who were financially interested in the company
or entitled to dividends paid by it. Pursuant to Osler's
instructions, the New York agency on April 13 and April
17, 1922, bought Liberty Bonds of $300,000 par value;
and, on May 8 following, Osler as president of the Continental Company gave the agency a receipt for Liberty
Bonds of that amount. There were other similar transactions; and, between February 1922 and June 1923, like
purchases and deliveries amounted to more than $3,000,000. In May, 1923, the Continental Company assigned
its contract with the Humphreys' companies to its guarantors for $400,000. Shortly afterwards, it was dissolved,
and all its records were destroyed.

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

49

Opinion of the Court.

May 29, 1922, at Pueblo, Colorado, Fall's son-in-law,
M. T. Everhart, had $230,500 in Liberty Bonds. Of that
amount, $200,000 were, by the numbers thereon, conclusively shown to have been included in the lots purchased
by the New York agency, April 13 and April 17, and
receipted for by Osler, May 8. Everhart gave the First
National Bank of Pueblo bonds for $90,000 to be kept for
Fall. He sold the balance to the M. D. Thatcher Estates
Company at par and accrued interest. Fall and Everhart
owned all the stock of the Tres Ritos Cattle and Land
Company. The Thatcher Company had loaned the cattle
company $10,000, Fall $15,000, and Everhart $83,000, and
for security held all the stock of that company. Out of
the proceeds of the bonds, Everhart paid these debts. The
balance was distributed to the company, Fall, and Everhart. Out of the $90,000 in bonds given to the bank for
Fall, $20,000 were deposited to the credit of the cattle
company, and the rest was sent to Fall. In October and
November, 1922, he sold $20,000 in Texas; and, in May,
1923, $50,000 in New Mexico. The Government called
Everhart as a witness; but, invoking the rule against
compulsory self-incrimination, he declined to give any
information as to where he got the bonds.
Humphreys and his counsel testified but were unable
to disclose who were financially interested in the Continental Company. Blackmer and O'Neil went to France;
and, on the application of the Government, letters rogatory issued, but they refused to testify. Subpoena was
issued for Stewart, but the marshal returned that he could
not be found. Commissioners were appointed to take the
deposition of Osler in Canada. He was sworn, but declined to disclose who caused him to organize the Continental Company or to give information as to its owners or
the distribution of its assets. As ground for the refusal,
he asserted that the information called for was privileged
because communicated to or obtained by him in the course
83583"-28---4

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court

275 U. S.

of his employment as a professional legal advisor, and that
the company and its officers were his confidential agents
for the better performance of his duties to his client.
Application was made to the Supreme Court of Ontario to
compel him to testify. That court held he must answer,
56 0. L. R. 307; and its judgment was affirmed on appeal.
56 0. L. R. 635. The District Court, on defendants' objections, refused to delay the trial pending final decision
in the Canada courts and thereafter refused to reopen the
case in order to get Osler's testimony.
The creation of the Continental Company, the purchase
and resale contracts enabling it to make more than
$8,000,000 without capital, risk or effort, the assignment
of the contract to the resale purchasers for a small fraction
of its probable value, and the purpose to conceal the disposition of its assets make it plain that the company was
created for some illegitimate purpose. And the clandestine and unexplained acquisition of these bonds by Fall
confirms the belief, generated by other circumstances in
the case, that he was a faithless public officer. There is
nothing in the record that tends to mitigate the sinister
significance attaching to that enrichment.
Fall ceased to be Secretary, March 4, 1923. Shortly
afterwards, Sinclair gave him $25,000 under these circumstances. Sinclair, about to go to Russia on business, had
Zevely arrange with Fall to meet him there. Fall was
given $10,000 for expenses; and, May 26, 1923, Sinclair
directed his secretary, Wahlberg, to give Zevely bonds for
$25,000 if the latter asked for them. A few days later,
Zevely obtained the bonds and, at Fall's request, had them
sent to the First National Bank of El Paso. Zevely wrote
the bank that the package belonged to Fall. By direction
of Fall, the bank sold the bonds and gave him credit for
the proceeds, $25,671.36. Zevely testified concerning the
transaction before the Senate Committee on Public Lands,
and that testimony was introduced at the trial by the

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

51

Opinion of the Court.

defendants. Its substance was that Zevely went to New
Mexico to see Fall because he did not want to write about
the matter; that, in addition to the expense money, Fall
wanted $25,000 to buy one or two small ranches there;
that Zevely so reported to Sinclair, who said: "If he does,
you will have to let him have it "; that later Zevely had
Wahlberg, who did not know the bonds were for Fall, send
them to the designated bank; that the bonds were not
given as a fee but as a loan from Sinclair; that, after
Fall's return from Russia, he gave Zevely a note for
$25,000 which the latter still held. Fall allowed the proceeds of the bonds to remain in the bank for a long time,
and it does not appear that he ever bought the ranches.
It is obvious that this was not a straightforward transaction. Coming so soon after the supplemental agreement
made to perfect and carry out the scheme, it strengthens
and confirms the inference that Fall had been willing to
conspire to defraud the United States; and, taken in connection with other circumstances disclosed, it is persuasive
evidence of such a conspiracy between him and Sinclair. •
Familiar rules govern the consideration of the evidence.
As said by Lord Mansfield in Blatch v. Archer (Cowper
63, 65): "It is certainly a maxim that all evidence is to
be weighed according to the proof which it was in the
power of one side to have produced, and in the power of
the other to have contradicted." The record shows that
the Government, notwithstanding the diligence reasonably to be expected, was unable to obtain the testimony of
Blackmer, O'Neil, Stewart, Everhart, or Osler in respect
of the transaction by which the Liberty Bonds recently acquired by the Continental Company were given
to and used for Fall. And the record contains nothing to
indicate that the petitioners controlled any of them, or did
anything to prevent the Government from obtaining their
testimony, or that they or the evidence they might have
given was within petitioners' power. But the failure of

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

Sinclair to testify stands on a different basis. Having
introduced evidence which, uncontradicted and unexplained, was sufficient to sustain its charge, the United
States was not required to call the principal representative
of the company. His silence makes strongly against the
company. It is as if he personally held the lease, were
defendant, and failed to testify. The guiding considerations by which the proper significance of such silence is to
be ascertained were well stated by Chief Justice Shaw in
the celebrated case of Commonwealth v. Webster, 5 Cush.
295, 316: "Where, for instance, probable proof is brought
of a state of facts tending to criminate the accused, the
absence of evidence tending to a contrary conclusion is to
be considered,-though not alone entitled to much weight;
because the burden of proof lies on the accuser to make
out the whole case by substantive evidence. But when
pretty stringent proof of circumstances is produced, tending to support the charge, and it is apparent that the
accused is so situated that he could offer evidence of all
the facts and circumstances as they existed, and show, if
such was the truth, that the suspicious circumstances can
be accounted for consistently with his innocence, and he
fails to offer such proof, the natural conclusion is, that the
proof, if produced, instead of rebutting, would tend to
sustain the charge. But this is to be cautiously applied,
and only in cases where it is manifest that proofs axe in
the power of the accused, not accessible to the prosecution." While Sinclair's failure to testify cannot properly
be held to supply any fact not reasonably supported by
the substantive evidence in the case (Northern Railway
Company v. Page, 274 U. S. 65, 74), it justly may be
inferred that he was not in position to combat or explain
away any fact or circumstance so supported by evidence
and material to the Government's case. Runkle v. Burnham, 153 U. S. 216, 225; Kirby v. Tallmadge, 160 U. S.

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

53

Opinion of the Court.

379, 383; Bilokumsky v. Tod, 263 U. S. 149, 154; Vajtauer
v. Commissioner of Immigration, 273 U. S. 103, 111;
Clifton v. United States, 4 How. 242, 247; Missouri, K. &
T. Ry. Co. v. Elliott, 102 Fed. 96, 102. As to facts
appearing to have been within the knowledge or power
of Sinclair, we find that the evidence establishes all that it
fairly and reasonably tends to prove.
The complaint did not allege bribery; and, in the view
we take of the case, there is no occasion to consider and
we do not determine whether Fall was bribed in respect
of the lease or agreement. It was not necessary for the
Government to show that it suffered or was liable to suffer
loss or disadvantage as a result of the lease or that Fall
gained by or was financially concerned in the transaction.
Pan American case, supra, p. 500. It requires no discussion to make it plain that the facts and circumstances
above referred to require a finding that pending the making of the lease and agreement Fall and Sinclair, contrary
to the Government's policy for the conservation of oil
reserves for the Navy and in disregard of law, conspired
to procure for the Mammoth Company all the products
of the reserve on the basis of exchange of royalty oil for
construction work, fuel oil, etc.; that Fall so favored Sinclair and the making of the lease and agreement that it
was not possible for him loyally or faithfully to serve the
interests of the United States or impartially to consider
the applications of others for leases in the reserve, and
that the lease and agreement were made fraudulently by
means of collusion and conspiracy between them.
The lease gave the Mammoth Company the right to
construct tanks and other operating facilities on the reserve. In January, 1923, the petitioner, Sinclair Crude
Oil Purchasing Company, bought from that company the
tanks already constructed and others being built thereon.
It used them to store Salt Creek royalty oil that it bought

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

from the Government. It claims that it relied on the
validity of the lease and became the owner of the tanks as
licensee and grantee of the lessee and entitled to maintain
them in all respects as the lessee was entitled to do under
the lease. It contends that the Circuit Court of Appeals
erred in directing it to be restrained from further trespassing upon the reserve, and that in any event it should
be given opportunity to remove its property. But the
Purchasing Company is presumed to have known that no
law authorized the making of any such lease. The existence of that arrangement for the exhaustion of the reserve
was calculated to excite the apprehensions of one considering such a purchase and put him on his guard rather
than to give assurance of safety. The use of such tanks
to take oil from the reserve was a part of the illegal
scheme. Moreover, the Purchasing Company was owned
half and half by the Sinclair Consolidated Oil Corporation
and the Standard Oil Company of Indiana. Sinclair was
chairman of the board of the former, and Stewart held like
position in the latter. Shortly before the Purchasing
Company bought the tanks, these chairmen acted for and
controlled it in respect of most important transactions.
That and other disclosed circumstances are sufficient to
impute to it Sinclair's knowledge of the conspiracy to
defraud by which the lease was obtained. It is clear that,
in respect of the use and removal of these tanks, the Purchasing Company is in no better position than the Mammoth Company would have occupied, if it owned them.
The Sinclair Pipe Line Company, as lessee's nominee to
build the pipe line provided for in the lease, expended a
large amount in constructing on the reserve a pumping
station, pipe line and other 6quipment necessary for the
transportation of the oil therefrom. It asserts that it
relied on the validity of the lease, had no knowledge of

MAMMOTH OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
13

55

Opinion of the Court.

any fraud in its procurement and made these expenditures
in good faith. It contends that it should have opportunity to procure from governmental authorities a right
to use the reserve lands for the operation of the pipe line
and equipment thereon; and, failing to get a right of way
or easement for that purpose, it should be allowed to
remove its property. That company was also owned half
and half by the Consolidated Company and the Standard
Company. It was a mere nominee to do some of the work
specified in the lease to be performed by the lessee. It is
chargeable with notice that the use of reserve oil to procure the construction of the pipe line was a part of the
plan for the unauthorized exhaustion of the reserve; that
such use furthered the violation of law and was contrary
to the established conservation policy. The Pipe Line
Company stands on no better- ground than the lessee
would have occupied if it had made the improvements in
question.
The tanks, pipe line and other improvements put upon
the reserve for the purpose of taking away its products
were not authorized by Congress. The lease and supplemental agreement were fraudulently made to circumvent
the law and to defeat public policy. No equity arises in
favor of the lessee or the other petitioners to prevent or
condition the granting of the relief directed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. Petitioners are bound to restore title
and possession of the reserve to the United States, and
must abide the judgment of Congress as to the use or
removal of the improvements or other relief claimed by
them. Pan American case, supra,p. 510.
Decree affirmed.
7

'p

and MR. JUSTICE STO'E
took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

