STIMSON LUMB'R. CO. v. KUYKENDALL.
199

207

Syllabus.

Petitioner also contends that the contract contravened
public policy and is void because Steele agreed to procure
the specified service to be given St. Andrews. The argument is that, in order to keep his covenant, he might be
tempted to use his vote to obtain corporate action of the
railroad companies that was not to the best interest of
their stockholders. But the contention has no foundation
of fact on which to rest. As shown above, it must be
clearly established that public policy would be violated
before Steele may raise that objection to prevent enforcement of the contract. The allegations do not indicate
that the carriers were not in duty bound to give equality
of service to these adjoining and competing towns; and,
for aught that appears, their interests would have been
served best by continuing operation over the new line.
It does not appear that the giving of the service would
have resulted to the disadvantage of either company or
its shareholders. Steele took all the stock of the new company; it does not appear that it ever had any other stockholders. The facts alleged fail to show that performance
would tend to constitute a fraud upon the old company
or its stockholders or tend in any degree to injure them.
It would be mere speculation to say that the transaction
described has any tendency to bring Steele's personal
interest into conflict with his duty as a voting shareholder.
Judgment affirmed.
WASHINGTON

EX REL.

STIMSON LUMBER COM-

PANY v. KUYKENDALL ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON

No. 66. Argued October 24, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.
1. Operators of towboats who hold themselves out as engaged in the
business of common carriers in the towing of logs in Puget Sound

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

and adjacent waters, and who for that purpose devote their towboats to public use, are common carriers, not because of any legislative fiat, but by reason of the character of their business, and
are subject to legislative regulation of their rates for such towage.

P. 211.
2. The rule that towboats not having exclusive control of vessels
towed are not to be held to the strict liability of common carriers,
does not affect this question and a notice in the carrier's tariff that
all tows are at the owner's risk is immaterial, since a common carrier is such by virtue of his occupation, not by virtue of the responsibilities under which he rests. P. 211.
3. A state regulation fixing reasonable rates for towage of logs by
common carriers does not deprive shippers of property in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment by preventing them from securing
lower rates through private contract with such carriers. P. 212.
137 Wash. 602, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington sustaining an order of the Department of Public
Works of the State of Washington declaring a specified
rate on the towage of logs to be just and fair, and directing a towage company to collect it for towage done for the
relator, Lumber Company.

Mr. CharlesA. Reynolds for plaintiff in error.
Mr. H. C. Brodie, with whom Mr. John H. Dunbarwas
on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTIcE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
October 17, 1924, the Department of Public Works,
after hearing upon a complaint of relator, made an order
which declared that a specified tariff rate for towing logs
from Clifton to Lake Union in Seattle was "just, fair
and no more than sufficient," and directed the Shively
Towboat Company to collect from relator, charges based
on that rate for towing done between March 1, and
May 1, 1924. The superior court affirmed the order.

STIMSON LUMB'R. CO. v. KUYKENDALL. 209
207

Opinion of the Court.

Relator appealed to the Supreme Court, and there challenged the validity of the order and statutory provisions
under which it was made, on the ground that they are
repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The court held them valid and affirmed
the judgment. 137 Wash. 602.
Relator got logs near Clifton and had a mill for the
manufacture of lumber at Lake Union. The distance
by water is about 100 miles. The Northwestern Towboat Owners Association, in accordance with an order of
the Department, filed a tariff effective September 30,
1923. The tariff included maps showing Puget Sound
and adjacent waters divided into zones; it named rates
for towing between all points thereon; it contained a
list of 50 operators, including the Shively Company, that
concurred therein; it specified rates to be charged for
towing ships, scows and logs between zones, and rates
for many other services to be rendered by tugs. The
rate specified for towing logs from the zone including
Clifton to that including Lake Union was 94 cents per
thousand feet. A note declared "all tows at owners
risk," and stated that the tariff was intended to name
rates for all services on Puget Sound and adjacent
waters. Commencing March 1, 1924, the Shively Company towed logs for relator from Clifton to Lake Union;
and, in accordance with an agreement between them,
charged $16.50 per section. Either could terminate the
arrangement at will. A supplement to the tariff, effective May 1, 1924, named $25 per section as the rate from
Clifton to Lake Union. That rate was the same or a
little less than 94 cents per thousand. Relator's logs
were towed by the section, and the last mentioned rate
was put in so that it would not have to scale the logs
in order to ascertain the charges. June 6, 1924, relator
complained to the Department asserting, among other
83583S-28-14

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

things not here material, that the business of towing
logs was not affected with a public interest or within the
jurisdiction of the Department. Then followed the
hearing, order and judgments above referred to.
The statutes of Washington declare that towboats
operated "for the public use in the conveyance of persons or property for hire over and upon the waters within
this state" are common carriers. They require that
charges made by common carriers "shall be just, fair,
reasonable and sufficient "; that the carriers file with
the Department of Public Works, schedules showing the
rates to be charged; that the names of carriers, who are
parties to joint tariffs, shall be specified therein; and
that each party other than the one filing the tariff, shall
file such evidence of concurrence as may be required.
And the statutes make it unlawful for any such carrier
to collect different compensation than that provided for
in the schedules, and prohibit it from charging any person a greater or less compensation than that collected
from others for like contemporaneous service. Other
provisions authorize the Department to prescribe and
enforce the rates to be charged by all common carriers,
including towboats. Remington's Compiled Statutes,
ยง 10344, et seq.
Relator does not here -contest the reasonableness of
the rate; it does not question the power of the State,
or the authority of the Department, to prescribe and
enforce reasonable rates for transportation by common
carriers on Puget Sound and adjacent waters in Washington; it does not contend that, if the Shively Company
was a common carrier of logs by towboat, the agreement
for transportation of relator's logs for less than the tariff
would be valid, or that the order complained of would
not be valid. It is established that, consistently with
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, a

STIMSON LUMB'R. CO. v. KUYKENDALL.
207

211

Opinion of the Court.

private carrier cannot be converted into a common carrier by mere legislative command. Frost Trucking Co.
v. R. R. Commission, 271 U. S. 583, 592; Michigan Commission v. Duke, 266 U. S. 570, 577.
It cannot reasonably be said that operators of towboats
may not become common carriers in the towing of logs
in Puget Sound and adjacent waters. The manufacture
of lumber at mills located by these waters is one of the
principal industries of the State. The forests are tributary to the Sound and waters connecting with it. Large
quantities of logs are floated from the forests to the mills.
Towboats are commonly used for that purpose. In all
essential particulars, that service is like the carriage of
freight in vessels. The reasons for rate regulation are the
same in one case as in the other. Within settled principles, one who undertakes for hire to transport from place
to place the property of others who may choose to employ
him is a common carrier. Propeller Niagara v. Cordes,
21 How. 7, 22. The tariff filed by the Northwestern Towboat Owners Association shows that 50 owners held themselves out as engaged in the business of common carriers,
including the towing of logs; and, for that purpose, they
devote their towboats to the use of the public. They are
common carriers, not because of legislative fiat, but by
reason of the character of the business they carry on. The
statute does not attempt to make all towboats common
carriers. Its application is limited to those operated in
public use for hire. The rule that towboats not having
exclusive control of vessels towed are not to be held to the
strict liability of common carriers * does not affect the
question under consideration. And the notice in the tariff
that all tows are at owner's risk is immaterial. "A common carrier is such by virtue of his occupation, not by
* The Steamer Webb, 14 Wall. 406, 414; The Margaret, 94 IT. S.
494, 496; TransportationLine v. Hope, 95 U. S. 297, 300.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

275 U. S.

virtue of the responsibilities under which he rests."
Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 440.

The Shively Company stands the same as the other parties
to the tariff. It was engaged in the general towboat business; it towed logs for others as well as for relator; it held
itself out as a common carrier in that line of business, and
by the tariff gave public notice to that effect. Its towboat was devoted to the public use, among other things,
for the transportation of logs. By its own choice, it became a common carrier. Terminal Taxicab Co. v. Kutz,
241 U. S. 252. The State had power to regulate its
charges. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.113. The purpose of
the regulations complained of is to establish reasonable
rates to be charged, and to prevent unjust discrimination,
by public carriers. Such regulations would be of little
value if the state law permitted the shippers by private
contract with public carriers to obtain the towing of their
logs for less than the prescribed rates. Relator was free
to have its logs towed by a private carrier for such compensation as might be agreed and without regard to the
rates established by the Department. The order was not
aimed at any such transaction. It being conceded here
that the charges in question are not excessive, the relator's
contention that the state rate regulation deprives it of its
property in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment has
no foundation.
Judgment affirmed.
MELLON, DIRECTOR GENERAL, v. O'NEIL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 74. Submitted October 26, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.
This Court acquires no jurisdiction to review the judgment of a
state court of last resort on writ of error, unless it affirmatively

