HAMMOND v. FARINA BUS LINTE.
Opinion of the Court.

CITY OF HAMMOND v. FARINA BUS LINE &
TRANSPORTATION COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 68.

Submitted October 26, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.

Case involving contentions, issues of fact and of law, and character of
evidence introduced, largely similar to those in City of Hammond v.
Schappi Bus Line, ante, p. 164, remanded to District Court upon
considerations explained in that opinion.

Decree of Circuit Court of Appeals modified.
CERTIORARI, 273 U. S. 675, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which reversed a decision of the District
Court dismissing the bill in a suit to enjoin the enforcement
of a city ordinance restricting the use of streets by motor
busses.

Messrs. Louis T. Michener, C. B. Tinkham, and Gerald
Gillett for petitioner.
Messrs. Jesse J. Ricks and Edmond W. Hebel for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

deliver6d the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was commenced in the federal court for
Indiana in June, 1925; and is here on certiorari to the
Circuit Court of Appeals. 273 U. S. 675. As in City of
Hammond v. Schappi Bus Line, Inc., ante, p. 164, the
plaintiff, Farina Bus Line and Transportation Company,
is an Illinois corporation; the defendant is the City of
Hammond; the relief sought is an injunction to prevent
the enforcement of ordinance No. 1945, adopted May 23,
1925; and the relief was denied by the District Court
without finding any facts and without opinion. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the decree and remanded
the case with directions "to enter a decree granting the
injunction." The decision was rendered on the same day

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

on which that court rendered its decision in the Schappi
case. It, also, made no finding of facts. It filed no
opinion and gave no reasons for its action save the statement that "the discussion there applies equally to this
case."
The Farina Company operates a route from several
small cities in Illinois through the Town of Munster,
Indiana, to its terminal in the business district of Hammond. There, its busses connect with an allied street railway, which extends from Hammond into the City of Gary,
Indiana; and through passengers from the Illinois cities
to Gary pass over this route. A small percentage of the
business is intercity traffic between Munster and Hammond; and, hence, intrastate. The Farina Company holds
a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by
the Public Service Commission of Indiana under the Acts
of 1925 for all its routes. The Farina Company alleges
that the ordinance, if enforced, will necessitate abandonment, not only of the existing routes, but of its business.
The evidence, consisting mainly of affidavits, is conflicting.
The contentions, the issues of fact and of law, and the
character of the evidence introduced, are largely similar
to those in the Schappi case. But there are differences
which may be important. The Calumet Company does
not serve Munster or the small Illinois cities, so that it is
not a direct competitor of the plaintiff. None of the
busses carry local passengers within the City of Hammond. There is also a difference in the stage of the proceedings at which this case came before the Court of
Appeals. It was heard on appeal from the final decree.
An application for an interlocutory injunction had been
made; but the cause was later submitted to the District
Court by agreement of the parties, as upon final hearing,
and the bill was dismissed.
The considerations which led this Court to remand the
S&happi case to the District Court for further proceedings

MASON v. ROUTZAHN.
Statement of the Case.

173

on final hearing are applicable in the main also to this
case. We think that it should be heard by the District
Court anew upon final hearing upon evidence to be adduced. To this end, the decree entered in the Court of
Appeals is affirmed in so far as it reversed the decree dismissing the bill. In so far as it directs that an injunction
issue, it is modified to the extent of directing an injunction
pending the suit instead of a permanent injunction, the
propriety of the latter being reserved until the final hearing. The cause is remanded to the District Court for further proceedings on final hearing, that court to have liberty, among other things, to allow amendment of the
pleadings. Costs in this Court are not allowed to either
party.
Decree modified and cause remanded to the
District Court for further proceedings.
MASON v. ROUTZAHN, COLLECTOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 152. Argued October 6, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.
1. Dividends paid in 1917, when there were net profits made in 1916
sufficient for the purpose and no net profits had been made in 1917
prior to the payment, are taxable to the shareholder at the 1916
rate, though profits were accumulated by the corporation in 1917
subsequently to the payment of the dividends. Revenue Act 1916,
ยง 31 (b) as amended 1917. See Edwards v. Douglas, 269 U. S. 204.
P. 177.
2. The date of payment, not the date of declaration, of the dividend
is the date of distribution within the meaning of ยง 31(b), supra.
P. 178.
13 F. (2d) 702, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

273 U. S. 687, to a judgment of the Cir-

cuit Court of Appeals which reversed a judgment rendered by the District Court, 8 F. (2d) 56, in favor of
Mason, plaintiff in an action to recover money paid to
the Collector, under protest, as a tax on dividends.

