OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
. Syllabus.

275 U. S.

as their agents for collection, or that any restriction should
be placed on the use of the checks by Knauth, Nachod &
Kuhne once they had credited respondents.
Nor was there anything in the relationship to the transaction of the New York banks whose checks established
the credit to suggest any reason or purpose so to restrict
it. The duty of these banks was performed and their interest in the paper, apart from their liability to pay it,
ceased as soon as they had delivered it to the bankrupts.
But it was indispensable to the completion of the transaction that the bankrupts should be advised to what
account the checks were to be credited. And it was apparently the function of the words in question to tell
them. That alone, we think, was their purpose. To
assign them any other would be to ignore the course of
business followed here and banking usage in general, and
to give them a strained and unnatural construction. We
think the district court was right, and the judgment of the
court of appeals is
Reversed.
LATZKO ET AL. v. EQUITABLE TRUST COMPANY,
TRUSTEE.
EQUITABLE TRUST COMPANY, TRUSTEE, v.
LATZKO ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 48 and 49.

Argued October 19, 1927.-Decided November 21,
1927.

Claimants, who were bankers of Budapest, desiring to procure credit
with a New York banking firm (the bankrupts herein) with which
they had a checking account, procured to be deposited with it (1), a
cashier's check of a New York bank payable to the bankrupt's
order," favor" of claimants, and (2), a check of another New York
binker drawn on its account with the bankrupt and payable to the

LATZKO v. EQUITABLE TRUST CO.
254

Opinion of the Court.

bankrupt's order accompanied by a letter stating that it was " for
account of" the clainmants. The bankrupts immediately credited
both checks to the claimants, but they were not collected until after
the bankruptcy petition had been filed on the following day.
Held, following Equitable Trust Co. v. Rochling, ante, p. 248, that
the effect of the words "favor" and "for account of " was not to
make the bankrupts agents for collection, but was to indicate the
account to be credited; that ownership of the checks passed to the
bankrupts, and that claimants were only general creditors. P. 256.
10 F. (2d) 935, reversed in part and affirmed in part.

CERTIORARI, 271 U. S. 654, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which affirmed in part and reversed in
part, a judgment of the District Court dismissing a petition for reclamation of funds traced into the hands of a
trustee in bankruptcy.
Mr. Charles A. Brodek, with whom Mr. Borris M.
Komar was on the brief, for Latzko et al.
Mr. Godfrey Goldmark, with whom Messrs. George G.
Ernst and Ralph F. Colin were on the brief, for The
Equitable Trust Company.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of'the Court.
This case, here on petition and cross-petition for certiorari to review a judgment of the circuit court of appeals,
involves the same bankruptcy and questions similar to
those considered in No. 34, Equitable Trust Company
of New York v. Rochling, ante, p. 248. Petitioners
in No. 48, respondents in No. 49, later referred to as
"claimants," are bankers of Budapest who had a checking account with Knauth, Nachod & Kuhne, the bankrupts. On June 15, 1923, they procured a credit with
the bankrupts through the deposit with the latter by
the National City Bank of New York of its cashier's check,
payable to the bankrupts' order, "favor N. Latzko &
A. Popper, Budapest." On the same day Goldman Sachs

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

& Co., bankers in New York, delivered to the bankrupts
their check, drawn on the Bank of America in New
York, and payable to the bankrupts' order, accompanied
by a letter stating that the check was "for account of
Latzkopper, Budapest." The bankrupts immediately
credited both checks to the claimants, but they were not
collected until after the bankruptcy petition had been
filed on the following day. The proceeds of collection are
traced into the hands of the trustee in bankruptcy and the
present proceedings were brought for their reclamation
in the district court for southern New York. The petition was dismissed. The court of appeals for the second
circuit reversed the order of the district court as to the
National City Bank check and affirmed it as to that of
Goldman, Sachs & Co. In re Gubelman, 10 Fed. (2d) 926,
holding that the words in the former, ' favor N. Latzko
and A. Popper, Budapest," appearing on the face of the
check, were restrictive and made the bankrupts agents
for collection, but holding as to the latter that the words
appearing in the letter accompanying the delivery of
the check served only to indicate the account to be
credited.
Two circumstances are said by claimants to distinguish
this case from No. 34, Equitable Trust Company v. Rochling, et al., ante, p. 248. The first is the fact that the check
involved in the claimants' petition was not a cashier's
check, but the check of a bank drawn upon its own bank.
of deposit. The distinction seems to us to require no
difference in result where, as here, the check was treated
by the bankrupts as current funds and at once placed to
the credit of the claimants. It is suggested also that,
although it was the practice of the bankrupts to credit
checks to claimants as soon as deposited, it does not affirmatively appear that claimants asked or expected them
to be credited in advance of collection, or that the items
were listed as immediately entitled to interest. But the

ATL. C. L. R. R. v. STANDARD OIL CO.
254

257

Syllabus.

mere absence of such proof cannot limit the effect of the
dominant facts before us that the establishment of the
credit was the objective of the claimants, and that that
objective was attained when the credit was given. Douglas v. Federal Reserve Bank, 271 U. S. 489; Burton. v.
United States, 196 U. S. 283. We cannot assume, in the
absence of proof, that claimants, whose controlling purpose was to secure a credit with Knauth, Nachod &
Kuhne, were unwilling to accept the credit, when given,
because it anticipated the collection of the paper by
twenty-four hours. There is then no basis for the distinctions attempted, and this case is controlled by our
decision in No. 34. Considering the checks in the light
most favorable to claimants, as though the language relied
on appeared on the face of both checks, claimants are
nevertheless only general creditors of the bankrupts and
their petition was rightly denied by the district court.
The judgment of the district court is affirmed and that of
the court of appeals is affirmed in part and
Reversed in part.
ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY v.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY OF KENTUCKY.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY, INCORPORATED IN
KENTUCKY, v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 176 and 177.

Argued October 4, 1927.-Decided November 28,
1927.

The plaintiff company, engaged in selling oil (viz., gasolene and refined,
lubricating and fuel oils) within the State of Florida, had storage
tanks on and near the Florida seaboard in which it kept supplies sufficient to meet the demands of its business for considerable
83583°-28-----17

