CAsrs

RULED AND ADJUDGED, &Q.

521

Rawle, in support of the Common Pleas judgment, remarked, 1805.
that his opponent was not content to enjoy an equality, but insisted upon a preference; and, therefore, there was no equity in.
his favour. He then contended, that there was an essential difference between the law of -England, and the law of Penn-y!vania, on the subject; that, although the question would oftenarise here, as lands were subject to execution and sale, it woul L
seldom arise there; that the practice had uniformly been to pay
judgments, out of the sale of real estates, according to the actual
date of entering them; (1) and that the point had already been
adjudged in Hooton v. Will. 1 Dall. Rep. 185. 450.
By the COURT: We are clearly 'of opinion, that the judgment
first entered, is entitled to be first paid. The plaintiff in the Coinmon Pleas must, therefore, enjoy his preference. (2)

Dupont versus Pichon.

T

HE plaintiff had issued a capias against the defendant, in
an action upon the case, &c. and a citation was served upon
him, in the following terms:
(1) The following certificates were founded on the fact of practice:
"I certify, that while I held the.office of sheriff for the city and county of
Philadelphia,I uniformly settled the payment of judgments, in the case of
sales of real estates, according to the actual dates of those judgments certilied by the respective prothonotaries, without rerirence to the terms, of which
the said judgments -iere entered.
JAMES ASH."
Philadelphia, Decemlrk 18th, 1804.
" I certify that the above was also my praetice, while I held the office of
sbleriff,
ISRAEL ISRAEL.':

*' I certify that the above was also my practice, while I held the office of
sheriff.
JOHN BAKER."
(2) A question of priority of judgments, also, arose in the Common Pleas,
of Idladelfihia county at -7une term 1806, in the case of .Em.nel v. Garwood.
It was on a case stated, between two creditors of the defendant, each of
whom had entered judgment, by virtue of a bond and warrant, on the sante
day, at the distance of a few hours. It was held by the COURT (RusH, president) that there should be no precedence betweeu the judgments; but that the.
proceeds of the sales, which arose from real estate, should be divided.
The reason chiefly assigned by the President, was the inconvenience of a
contrary rule, there being several court§, in which judgment might be entered
on the same day; and the authority on which he chiefly relied was lord Forcqetecrs case, as stated by Buller in 1 Durnford ard Ea-.T. 118.
.ielnor for the second creditor.
Rawle contra.
Vor. IV.

2T

SIR..

322
1805.

CAsrS
2
RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

" SIR,
are hereby cited to show your cause of action, and why
"
"You
" the defendant, claiming privilege as charge d'affaires of the
" Frenchrepublic, should not be discharged from the process issu"ted against him, at the city hall, in the city of Philadelphia,at 10
" o'clock to-morrow forenoon. Plhiladelphia,1st of 3.1arch 1805.
"EDWARD SHIPPEN."
The citation was returned to the Judges of the Supreme
Court, then holding a Court of Nisi Prius;(1) and after argunent, by Du .Ponceauand Dallas, for the defendant; and by Ingersoll and Wallace, for the pl-intiff, the following order was
made by the Judges, who did not think, that individually, or
sitting at Nisi Prius, they could quash the process:
,I t is ordered, that the defendant be discharged on common
" bail; and that at the next Supreme Court, in Bank, on the 4th
" day of this instant March, it may be considered by that Court,
" whether the defendant should, or should not, be discharged
" from the process issued against him; or whether he should be
" held to bail, and the present order be discharged."
At the opening of the Court, on the first day of the term (all
the Judges being present) Du Ponceau and Dallas moved, that
the defendant be discharged absolutely from the process. They
produced M1ir. Pichon's credentials, by which it appeared, that he
had not only been appqinted commissary general of commercial
celations, but, also, charge d'affaires of the French republic; his
continuance in the latter character, however, being limited, until
a minister plenipotentiary should arrive in the United States from
France. It appeared by Mr. Pichon's deposition, that the minister, general 2bureau, had arrived in the United States about the
12th of November 1804; that in compliance with Mr. Pichon's
instructions from his government, he had been anxiously making
all the necessary arrangements. for'his return to France with his
family; that his detention in the United States, since the arrival
of general Toureaze, had solely and exclusively been owing to the
business of closing his official transactions as charge d'affaires, and
to the delay in receiving his public papers and documents, which
were shipped in a vessel from Alexandria for Phildelphia, but
were carried in.to New-Torh, in consequence of the obstructed
navigation of the Delaware: and to the impracticability of obtaining a passage for Europe at the port of 'Philadelphia, for a
considerable time past; that Mr. Pichon had never, in the
slightest degree, abandoned, or suspended, his intention of returning to France; but, on the contrary, was determined to go
thither, with all possible dispatch, as soon as the obstacles, which
(1) SirirpPE, Chief Yiutice, and SuiTH and BRn.cKz-.yR tfOE, ffuaticet,
composed ;be Court.

SUPREBME COURT OP PENNSYLVANIA.

he had stated, should be removed, and the condition of his fami- 1805.
ly would permit. It was further stated in the deposition, that t-*,.during the time of Mr. Pichon's executing the functions oi
charge d'affaires, and beforz the arrival of general Toureau, it
became his official duty to superintend and direct the equipment
and supply of certain Frenchfrigates, lying in the harbour of New
1orh; that he employed the plaintiff in that business, to make
the necessary advances of money; and for his reimbursement
gave him certain bills of exchange on France,drawn, However,
on his private bankers; that the plaintiff well knew, that Mr.
Pichon acted in the premises merely as public agent of the French
republic, and is not indebted to the plaintiff on his private account;
nor, in any other manner, than as the drawer of the bills of exchange, which were delivered to the plaintiff by the French consul at New-'7hrk; and the fate of which Mr. Pichon had not definitively heard. (1)
Upon these facts, it was urged, that although no privilege was
claimed for Mr. Pickon, as consul, he was entitled to privilege,
as charge d'affaires, eundo, morando, et redeundo; 1 vol. P. 110.
. 25, 26, 27. Vatt. B. 4. c.6. s. 74, 5. p. 615,6. lb. c. 7.s. 83. p.682.
1b. c.9. s.125.p.726. b. c.8. s. 11. p.713. 01art. 206. that he was
not bound to produce any testimonials of his diplomatic character,
the notoriety of his reception by the President, being all that the
nature of the case, or uniform usage, required; that a day's delay, in recogni ing the privilege of a public minister, to obtain
certificates from our own government, must either compel him
to give bail, ot to submit *to actual imprisonment; and that the
precedent established on this occasion, would attract the serious
attention of every foreign minister and-government. It, therefore,
became highly important to claim and obtain the discharge, on
the sihglc ground of diplomatic privilege, without adverting to
the official origin of the debt, for which the suit was instituted;
and for which Mr. Pichon ought never to be deemed personally
responsible. (2).
,'igcrsoll,Wallace, and Binney disputed the extent of the privilege; and the sufficiency of the excuse for Mr. Pichon'sprotracted residence in the United States, after general Tourcan's arrival. They insisted that the appointment as charge d'affaires was
limited in its own terms; that his arrival and continuance in the
United States were, principally, on account of his consular corn(1) After 'Mr. Pichon was discharged from the process in this suit, the
plaintiff issued another capias from the Circuit Court oft the United States;
but before the writ was served, information arrived, that the bills drawn in
Tvour ofthe plaintiffhad been paid by the French government; and the proceedings we.e suspended, after notice of a motion to quash the writ on the
ground of privilege.
'2) See 3 Dali. Rep. 384.

mission

24

(CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C.

1805. mission; and that, at least, proof should be produced from the

.

secretary of state of his reception as a minister, beibre he wa'
discharged from the capias, upon the claim of privilege.

Pichon
The CoURT were. decidedly of opinion, that _Mi"Ir.

would be entitled to privilege as charge d'affaires, till his rcturn
to Prance; but Chief Justice SHIPPEN seemed inclined to wait
for infonnation, from the department of state, as to his aLtual
reception by the president in that character. On iis being intimated, however, that the attorney of the district haci-beconc responsible to the sheriff for MIr. Pichwn's appearance, only till
the sense of the Court could be obtained; and that Mr. Pickon
must now, probably, submit to imprisonment under the capims:
the judges concurred ir discharging him absolutely from the
process.

