502

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C.

1804. sent claim. The motives of Mrs. Deshler, in observing this siU
lence, cannot be positively ascertained; but she might think, that,
if the land sold high, in consequence of appearing clear of every
incumbrance, there would be the better prospect, that her legacy
of 1000/. would be paid.
LIpon the whole, the jury will decide, whether Mrs. Desiler's
line of conduct held up to the public, and, particularly, to the
parties, that she meant to waive the claim of dower. If it did,
the verdict should be against her. If it did not, and the jury
think, that she alwa3 s meant to assert her right of dower; thert
the verdict must be in her favour.
Verdict for the defendant

Commonmealth versus Lyon.

T

HE defendant, having made an affidavit in the usual form,
applied to SIMITH, 7ustice, for the allowance of a certiorari

to remove this indictment from the Quarter Sessions of

Aorth-

umberlandcounty, into the Circuit Court.
Cooper (acting for the attorney-general) stated the reasons,
which had induced him to decline consenting to the removal;
and the following authorities were- mentioned. The removal of
an indictment, at the instance of the'defendant, is discretionary
with the Court; but the discretion ought not to be exercised,
without special cause. 2 Hawk. 407, 8. s. 27. 4 Burr. 2458. The
removal is not usually allowed in cases of peijury, forgery, &c.
because such offences should be discouraged; and removals not
only tend to delay justice, but to discountenance prosecutions.
Ibid. 408. c. 28. The act of assembly contemplates the same
principle; for, if the attorney-general does not consent to the removal, writs of certiorariare only to be specially allowed, and
certified in writing upon the writ, by the Supreme Court, or one
of its judges, upon sufficient cause shown. 3 State Laws, 92.
Dall.edit.
SM ITH, .7ustice. It is not the practice to enter into an argument
upon applications of this nature. The defendant has made the
usual oath, as a ground for allowing the certiorari;and I shall,
of course, allow it, unless something is shown, in relation to his
character and conduct, which will induce me to suppose, that
public justice is likely to be impaired, or defeated, by the re-

n oval.

C6ooper declaring that the defendant's character was good, independent of its implication in the present charge; the Judge
immediately signed the allocatur.

