CAS2S S RULED

i)9 -2
1803.

AND ADJUDGED I- THE

M'Culloch, Administrator, &c. vers,s Young.

T

HIS was an action on the case, brought against the defendant, by Yohn M'Culloch, as administrator of Robert Parland, under letters of administration granted by the Orphan's
Court, and tested by "the register of wills for Prince George
county.," in the state of ITfaryland, on the 8th of October 1799,
addressed to Yohn M'Gulloch of " Alexandria, in .the state of
Virginia."
The only controverted question in the cause, was subti-ttted
to the Court, all the judges being present: to wit; whether an
action could be maintained in the Courts of Pcmnw.ylvania, under
the authority of letters of administration granted in another
state?
And after argument by M. L evy, for the plaintiff, and by
Hopkinson for the defendant (in thie course of which, 1 Di
Rep. 456. 1 State Laws, 30. Dall. edit. were cited):
The Couwa, adverting to the numerous instances, both since
and before the revolution, in which such suits were maintained,
unanimously pronounced,
Judgment for the plaintiff.

ON

Commonwealth versus M'Kissick et a.

the 15th of March 1802, a rule was obtained upon the
receiver-general, which was afterwards extended to the
secretary of the land-office, to show cause why a mandamnt.s
should not issue, commanding them to receive a certain certificate, in payment for city lots, located by the late Thonzas Billington.
The application for the rule, was founded upon an act of the
General Assembly, passed on the 9th of March 1796, (4 vol.
p. 16.- Dall. edit.),which containg the following enacting clause:
Sect. 1. It Be it enacted, &c. That it shall and may be lawful
"for the Board of Property, and they are hereby enjoined and
"required, to proceed upon the reports of the Commission"ers appointed by the act passed the twenty-eighth day. of
"March, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-seven, entitu"led " An Act for ascertaining and confirming to certain per"sons,' called Connecticut Claimants, the lands by them claimed
"within the county of Luzerne," which have been filed in the
"office of the Secretary, and ascertain, as nearly as they can,
"from the documents so placed in the Secretary's office, and
"fiom such further evidence as they ..ay deem neces~ary, and
" which

