71

HIGH COURT or ERRORS AND APPEALS.
4th. That notice to the parties is proved on two grounds;
first, because the writ commands it, and the sheriff returns, that
he has executed the writ according to the command thereof; and,
secondly, because the. plaintiffs issued the writ, they were present by attorney when it was returned, and at that time never
complained. But ev6n if no notice had been given, there was
another remedy; and the objection comes too late on a writ of
error. 5 Com. 301.
5th. That the writ of partition directs the premises to be divided, assigned and delivered; it is recited in the inquest; and
the sheriff returns that he has obeyed the command of the writ.
When, therefore, the inquest declare that they have allotted the
moieties to the respective parties, it must be deemed an allotment according to the terms of the command and authority under which they acted.
On the last day of the session, the CoURT mentioned, that some
doubts had arisen, which would prevent-a decision of the cause
till the adjourned session; but that, in the meantime, for their
own information, they should direct a certiorarito issue to the
Court of Common Pleas of rork county, to inquire whether any
precept had been given, authorising the writ of execution, or
judicial writ of partition, to issue; and if so, to return it. (2)
Cur. adv. vult.
At an adjourned session, held on the 17th of January 1800,
the COURT unanimously affirmed the judgment of the Supreme
Court.
Judgment affirmed.

Levezey et al. versus Gorgas et al.
N error from the Supreme Court. A declaration was filed in
the Court below by the plaintiffs in error, against -the defend1790,
of
ants, in which they set forth,." that on the
and thence continually, they have been seised in their desmesne
as of fee of and in a certain water grist mill with the appurtenances, upon Wissahicon creek in Philadelphiacounty; that the
defendants all the time aforesaid and stillare in possession of a
certain other. water grist mill with the appurtenances upon the
same creek, and below the mill of the plaintlffs; and that the
defendants, intending to injure the plaintiffs, had raised their dam
(2) Lewis suggested a doubt, whether a certioraricould issue, per saltemn, to

the Common Pleas, overleaping the
wlit of error was brought; but he
might be taken to ascertain the ftct
that issued, as regularly annexed to

Supreme Court, on whose judgment the
agreed to give eflbct to any mode, that
in question and to consider any precept
the record,.

higher,

19.

CASES AFFIRMED OR REVERSED IN THE

1799. higher, to wit
feet higher than the same had ever been
before raised, and thereby unjustly penned back, pent up, and
obstructed the water of the said creek between the said mills, insomuch that the water of the creek during all the time aforesaid
overflowed and greatly damaged, spoiled, injured, and broke to
pieces the said mill of the plaintiffs, to their great damage in their
said hereditary estate, and whereby they were forced to expend
a large sum, &c. in repairing, &c." The defendants pleaded
" not guilty, with leave to alter, and give the special matter in
,evidence:"
and -afterwards " by ageement of attornies in wri"ting filed, all matters in variance between the parties, are refercc red to Willlam Ward Burrows, Alexander Martin, 7ohn Holmes
" and George Eyre, who shall have full power to award whether
Ccany and what sum shall be paid to the plaintiff by the defendant,
" and vice versa, to settle their respective claims to the waters of
"the Wissahicon creek, by fixing what shall be the heighth of
"the defendant's dam, and whether any alteration shall be made
therein, and to direct articles to be executed accordingly: the
" report of any three to be conclusive."
All the referees concurred in filing a report, by which it was found and awarded,
1 1st. That the defendants their heirs and assigns shall and may
" erect and complete the mill-dam to their mill now belonging
" of a heighth corresponding with the bottom of the hole now
" bored in a certain rock standing and being on the north-east side
" of Wissahicon creek, near the said mill. And the said dam of
"the heighth aforesaid shall and may forever hereafter keep
"and maintain. And if the said- defendants, their heirs and as"signs, or e.ither, or any of them, shall and do wilfully, or neg,ligently, cause or suffer the said dam to be raised higher than
"is hereinafter mentioned, then and in such case, it shall be law"ful for,the plaintiffs their heirs and assigns, to give a written
"notice to the defendants their heirs and assigns, requiring them
"to reduce the said dam to its proper level, herein before di" rected: and if the defendants their heirs and assigns, shall ne"glect or refuse so to do, for thirty days after such notice, the
plaintiffs their heirs and assigns may summon three freeholders,
,being indifferent men, to view and examine the same; and if
"the said freeholders shall be of opinion that the plaintiff's, &c.
"are injured by the said dam being carried up higher than the
level herein directed, they shall give a written notice to the
"aefendants, &c. requiring them to reduce the said dam to its
"cproper level; and if within thirty days thereafter, the defendants,
" &c. shall not reduce the said dam to its level aforesaid, the
plaintiffs, &c. may lawfully enter upon the said dam, and abate
"and prostrate the sane. 2d. In consideration of the foregoing
privileges the referees order and award, that the defendants,
&c. holding the said mill, shall yearly, and every year, pay 101.
" to the pl::intiffs, &-c. the first paymcnt to be made on the 31st

"COff

HIGH COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS.

73

" of March 1797. And also that the defendants do on the 31st 1799.
" of March next pay to the plaintiffs 501., which shall be in full t
" of all claims and demands on the part of the plaintiffs against
"the defendants, on account of the said mill dam. Lastly: the
"referees award and direct that the said parties respectively,
"shall mutually execute and deliver proper deeds and instru"ments in writing, for the granting, assuring, and confirming,
as well the said privileges hereby awarded to the said defend" ants, their heirs and assigns, as the said annual payment to the
" plaintiffs, &c.: and it is awarded and directed that the parties
" divide the costs." On the 21st of Iarch 1796, "the report of
" the referees was read and confirmed, and judgment nisi." On
the 22d of March, exceptions to the report were filed; but after
hearing witnesses, and the argument of counsel, on the 14th of
September 1796, "the report of the referees and judgment were
confirmed": and thereupon the present writ of error was broughtu
On arguing the cause in this Court, Lewis, for the plaintiff in
error, took the following exceptions to the record:'
1st. That the referees had exceeded the authority given by
the submission of the parties, inasmuch as they have directed the
plaintiffs to sell to the defendants, a certain privilege, and have
awarded an annual sum, to be paid by the defendants to the
plaintiffs, as the price of the privilege, which were not matters
in variance between the parties, nor included in the rule of reference.
2d. That the referees have directed deeds to be executed by
the plaintiffs, for assuring to the defendants a new right, not for
settling the old rights of the parties (which are alone contemplated in the submission) to the waters of the Wissahicon.
3d. That the referees have established a new tribunal for deciding the future controversies of the parties; a power which is
inconsistent with the general principles of law, and not supported
by the agreement, or submission, of the parties.
4th. That the referees have awarded the parties to divide the
costs.
5th. That the judgment in confirmation of the report being
entered generally, part of it cannot be affrmed, and part reversed.
Carth. 235. 2 Bac. Abr. 227.
The objections were answered by Rawle, for the defendants
in error, to the following effect:
1st. That the submission was general, and shows the real points
in controversy between the parties: and on the principles of the
law of awards in Pennsylvania, the present award ought to be
enforced. I Dali Rep. 364. 314.
2d. That the report, as far as it awards the payment of money,
comes strictly within the act of assembly; but on the other two
objects
L
VOL. IV.

M.

CAsEs AFFIR-MED OR REVERSED IN THE

1799. objects of the report (the grant of the privilege, and the execution
Sof

deeds to assure it) there could be no judgment, and they re-

main in the record as rules of Court, to be enforced by attachment, of which no writ of error lies. 3 vol. Penn. Laws, 97.
2 Bac. Abr. 215. 3 Lst. 31.
3d. That the present record is informally sent up; but it may
either be reduced to form by the Court, or they may satisfy their
consciences by awarding a certiorari; which, however, the defendants in error have no right to isssue. 2 Bac. Abr. 204, 5.
5 Corn. Dig. 166.

4th. That supposing the present record, in all its parts, to be a
subject for a writ of error, it is a maxim, that no one can assign
that for error, which is for his own advantage. 2 Bac. Abr. 220.
Thus, the referees find that the defendants are entitled to the
privilege, on paying for it; but by way of further security to the
plaintiffs, and for their benefit, a summary examination by freeholders is provided, to restrain subsequent encroachments. This
is obligatory .on the defendants; but it is optional with the
plaintiffs, who may have recourse to the ordinary legal remedies.
5th. That the report of the referees does not give any thing
new to the defendants. The subject in dispute and submitted,
was, whether the defendants had a right to raise their dam; and
the referees find that they have such a right, by an old continued
compact, paying an equivalent.
6th. That the referees, had power to make an award touch136.
ing real estate. Kid. 34. 133.
On the last day of the session, the COURT mentioned, that they
had not been able to form a decisive and satisfactory opinion on
the authorities and arguments in this cause; and that, therefore,
they would keep it under advisement till the adjourned session.
They added, that if the plaintiff in error was to be considered as
restrained from pursuing the ordinary remedies of the law, and
confined to the remedy prescribed in the report, in case of any
future nuisance, or encroachment upon his rights, it was their
present sentiment, that the referees had exceeded their authority.
The point, however, was not made in the argument before the
Supreme Court; and merits further consideration.
Cur. adv. vult.
At an adjourned session, held on the 17th of 7anuary 1800,
the judges delivered their opinions, seriatim, but concurred in
this general result:
By the COURT: The agreement of the parties constituted the
referees, the exclusive judges of the subject submitted to their
decision. It gave them, however, no power to delegate their
trust and authority to others; nor to erect a new and arbitrary
tribunal

HIGH COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS.

75

tribunal, to determine future contrwersies. If the first set of 1799.
referees could proceed in this way, the set empowered by them,
might exercise a similar authority; and so ad infinitum, compel
the parties, without their consent, or controul, to resort to a tribunal unknown to our laws. We are, therefore, unanimously of
opinion, that the referees exceeded their authoritv; and as their
report, or award, was confirmed, generally, by the Supreme
Court, the judgment of that Court must, also, be generally, reversed.
.Tudgment reversed.

