SUPREME COURT
OF THE

UNITED STATES

February Term 1800.
Present CUSHING,

1

PATERSON,

CHASE, and

rustices,

WASHINGTON,

Mosman, surviving Executor, Plaintiff in Error, versus
Higginson, surviving Partner, Defendant in Error.
THIS was a writ of error, to remove the proceedings on a
I bill in equity, from the Circuit Court, for the district of

Georgia, tested the 27th November 1798, returnable on the

next. The case, on the bill and pleadings, was, briefly, this:-

Alexander Willy, an inhabitant of Georgia, being indebted to Higginson and Greenwood, British merchants, gave them a bond and
mortgage, payable the first of 7anuary 1773. In the year 1778,
Willy was banished from the state of Georgia, and his estate confiscated by law. The mortgaged premises were seiz-l and sold
by the commissioners for forfeited estates, to certain jurchasers,
who afterwards sold the same to .7ames Hou-ton; and the property remained in his possession, or in the possession of his ex.
ecutors, until the 12th of September 1796, when it was levied upon,
sold, and conveyed to William,Mien, by the creditors of Houston;
notice of the mortgage having been given to liossman, the executor of Houston, to Mien, the agent fbr his creditors, and to th'
marshal, before the sale. In March 17.97, Higginson, the surviving mortgagee, filed the present bill to foreclose the equity of
redemption, stating himself to be a subject of Great Britain;"but
in no part of the proceedings, were the defendants, or any of
them, stated to be citizens of the United States. The defend..
ants pleaded the confiscation laws of Cecrgiain bar. and asmwered
tc

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE SUPREME COURT, &c.

15

to the merits; but VASHINGTON, .7ustice, over-ruled the pleas, 1800.
and decreed, that unless William Mflen paid the principal alid in- Ly-terest of the debt, before the 17th of February 1799, the equity

of redemption should be foreclosed. The mr' :s of the decree
were not, however, discussed on the writ of error, but the following points, occurred:
I. Dallas, for the plaintiff in error, moved to amend the writ,
by inserting the return day of the present term in the blank. The
writ is regularly tested, and by indorsements it appeared when it
was filed below, and when it was filed here. The clerk of the
Circuit Court had, also, indorsed, "Returnable to Februaryterm
1799." There is, therefore, sufficient matter to amend by; and
the amendment is within the provision of the act of congress,
1 vol. 12. s. 32.

By the CouRT. Let the amendment be made.
II. It was objected by Ingersoll and Dallas, for the plaintiff
in error, that the jurisdiction of the court, did not appear qpon
the record, as there was no designation of the citizenship of the
defendants. 3 Dall. Rep. 382. 369. 4 Dal. Rep. ant. 8. Turner
v. Enrille.
It was answered by E. Tilghnanand Reed (ofSouth-Carolina)
that as no process was prayed against Willy, he was not, in legal
contemplation, a party to the suit; 1 A1. Win. 593. that the prayer
of process against lfossman, who never held the land, was irregular, and to be regarded as mere surplusage; that there was
no pretence to charge- Houston; and that Mien, being expressly
stated to be the purchaser of the. land, the Court will take notice
of the law of Gecrgia, by which no alien can hold real estate;
and, by necessary implication, the purchaser must be a citizen.
Besides, it is enough under the constitution, the treaty of 1783,
and the 1 th section of the judiciary act, that an alien is a party
to the suit, whose real object is the thing mortgaged, aproceed.
ing in ren, and not'a personal recovery. At all events, the
Court will permit the defect to be amended.
Ingersoll, in reply. The judiciary act was only intended to
carry the constitution into effect, and canaot amplify, or alter, its
provisions. The constitution no where gives jurisdiction (nor
has any Judge ever countenanced the idea) in suits between alien
and alien. It is not an exception to the rule, that the bill in equi.
ty; is in the nature of a proceeding in rem: for, there cannot be
a foreclosure of the equity of redemption, without a personal suit.
It is not like the case of a monition to condemn a prize ship,
which is notice to all the world, and no party respondent is requisite; and the supposed inference of citizenship from purchasing land fails, when it is recollected, that the purchase does not
fix the use. The jurisdiction of the federal Courts (Const. at. 3.
s. 2.)

14
1800.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

is not where a question arises, that may be affected by a
but where a case arises under a treaty ; and if a question
on the validity of a treaty, arises in a state Court, there is a special provision for transfering it to the Supreme Court; I vol. 61.
. 22. But, in the present instance, it does not appear that any
question can arise under the treaty; for, it is not referred to,
directly, nor indirectly, in any part of the record. As to an
amendment, there is nothing to amend by. The citizenship of
the defendants could only be judicially known, by the admission
of the parties, or by evidence of the fact. It is not expressly,
or impliedly admitted; and this Court cannot try an issue to asS.

2.)

Streaty,

certain it.
By the CouRT: The decisions, on this subject, govern the present case; and the 11th section of the judiciary act can, and must,
receive a construction, consistent with the constitution. It says,
it is true, in general terms, that the Circuit Court shall have
cognizance of suits "where an alien is a partyI;" but as the legis.
lative power of conferring jurisdiction on the federal Courts, is,
in this respect, confined to suits between citizens andforeigners,
we must so expound the terms of the law, as to meet the case,
" where, indeed, an alien is one party," but a citizen is the
other. Neither the constitution, nor the act of congress, regard,
on this point, the subject of the suit, but the parties. A description of the parties is, therefore, indispensable to the exercise of
jurisdiction. There is here no such description; and, of course,
The writ of error must be quashed.

Uooper versus Telfair.

E

RROR from the Circuit Court for the district of Georgia.
The record exhibited the following case:
Basil Cooper, at present of the island of .amaica, in the dominions of his Britdnnic majesty, formerly an inhabitant of the
state of Georgia,brought an action in the Circuit Court of Georgia
to November term 1797, against Edward Telfair, of the district
of Georgia, upon a bond for 1000/. sterling, equal to 4285 7 0 dollars, dated the 14,th of 3.iaql 1774.
After byer of the bond and condition, the defendant pleaded in
bar, 1st. Payment. 2d. "'That, on the 4th day of Mazy 1782, an act
" was passed by the legislature of the state of Georgiaentitled I An
" act for inflicting penalties on and confiscating the estate of such
" persons as are therein declared guiltyoftreason,and for other put" poses therein mentioned,' by which it is, among other things en" acted and declared, 'that all and every the pelons, named and in" cludtd in the said act, are banished from the said state; and that
"all and singular the estate real and personal of each and every of
the aforesaid persons, which they held, possessed, or were entitled

