CA.sEs RULED

AND

ADJUDGED, &C.

2.13
1800.

Chancellor versus Phillips et al.

THECourt:following case was submitted for the opinion of the
On the 2d of .une 1798, a levy was made by the sheriff on a
kiln of unburnt bricks, and other property, by virtue of a f. fa.
for a debt of 1491. 15s. with interest and costs. The bricks were
suffered to remain in this state till the 14th of April 1799, when,
on advertising them for sale, it was found that one of the defendants bad sold them to Thomas Harrison, on the 1st of December 1798, without giving any notice of the levy. The sheriff
at the time of the levy, employed a man to call at the brick-yard,
occasionally, but did not keep any person constatly there; nor
does it appear that 7. Harrisonhad any notice of the bricks being subject to the above execution, until about the time of advertising them for sale.
The question proposed was, whether Harrison was entitled,
under the circumstances of this case, to hold the bricks discharged
al.ogetber from the lien of the plaintiff's execution; or must account to the sheriff for the amount of the execution, not exceeding the value of the bricks?
SMITH, ,
yutice. It is useless to cite .Eniishauthorities in this
case; for, it has been repeatedly decided in our courts, that the
law is not the same in Pennsylvania.

SHiiPPN, Chief _'ustice. There is, however, an obvious and
material distinction between a levv on household furniture, and
on merchandize, or goods for sale. In the former case, the Court
has never allowed the plaintiff to lose the lien of a prior execution
levied, because on principles of humanity he allowed the furniture
to remain on the premises, in the possession of the defendant. But
it would be going farther than the reason of our decisions, and
might introduce collusion and fraud, if we were to authorise, or
countenance, such a practice, indiscriminately, in every case.

By the COURT: We are of opinion, therefore, that the purchaser of the bricks is entitled to hold them, entirely discharged
from the lien of the execution. (1)
Morgan, for the plaintiff.
Hallowell, for Harrison.
(1) The manuscript of this note, was read on a recent trial, involving the
same question; and the Judges intimated a doubt of its accuracy. I find, however, that a diflirence between the law in England and in Pennsylvania upon
1his subiect, has been repeatedh stated by the Judges of the Supreme Court,
Lewv v. Irdlis.
TVaters v. M'/ellan. though the rule has been adjudged to be

the'salne, in buth countries, by the Circuit Court of the United States, upon

full argument and deliberation. See the United States v. Cunningham et al. post

Anonymous.

