CIRCUIT COURT, PEN*NSYLVANIA

DISTRICT.

this case, privileged, while he was at his lodgings. The subpena
was in force; and the arrest of the witness at that place, has all
the effects which could be produced by an arrest in the streets,
while coming to, or going from, the Court.
PETERS, 7ustice. I concur in the sentiments, that have been expressed by the presiding judge; and add, as my separate opinion,
that the party is intitled to be discharged, upon both the grounds
of privilege.
A special order of discharge was, accordingly, made, and
filed; at the instance of Dallas, who appeared for the sheriff.

Walker et a. versus Smith.
ASE. On the trial of this cause, the following facts appeared: The plaintiffs were merchants of London; and in .Afarcjs
1796, shipped and consigned to the defendant certain goods, invoiced at 270. 14,9. 8d.sterling, accompanied with a letter, stating that "these goods were shipped by order of Mr. Y. B. and
" for his account; andhe was to remit us -the amount on his ar" rival at .Philadelphia:but since they were shipped, some cire cumst*ances have occurred, which have created some doubts,
"in our minds, respecting his solidity; and by the advice of our
" friends, we have adopted this method. to secure ourselves
" through your friendly assistance, which we request on this oc" casion. As w. do not want to depriye B. of the benefits to be
" derived from the sale of these goods, we wish you to hold them
" at his disposal, but not to deliver them to him, without being
" paid for the amount, or having such security given you there" for, as is satisfactor) to yourself. Should he not be able to ef" fect either of these,'in i reasonable time, we would wish you
" to dispose of them for our account, and remit us the amount
" in good bills." The defendant duly received the goods, but de-.
livered them over to B. without receiving payment, or exacting. security; and shortly afterwards B. failed. The defendant,
however, representing other creditors of B., as well as the plaintiffs, made a composition, by which he received for the proportion of the plaintiffs 1511 16s. sterling, and remitted that sum
to them, without charging commissions, in a letter dated the 11th
of Deccmlber 1800. The plaintiffs refused to ratify the composition, and brought the present suit to rec6ver the invoice value of
the goods, with interest according to the usage of trade.
(

On the trial, Ingersollassumed three grounds of defence: 1st.
That there was no cause of action; as the defendant had accepted the consignment-, on principles of mere curtesv, withot interest directly, or indirectly; and had exercised a f ir and imparfil

89
1804.

"590

CAsEs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1804. tial discretion, for the equal interest of all the creditors of B.
S2d. That even if the action could be maintained, it is a case, in
which the jury are at liberty to give less by way of damages,
than the amount of the loss actually proved. 1 Dall. Rep. 180.
2 Wile. 328. 2 Bac. Abr. 266. Bull N. P. 156. 1 Esp. N.
P. 179. 3d. That the defendant, acting as a general consignee,
may be considered as selling the goods to B., and, consequently,
is not liable to his principal, for more than he actually received.
Willes Rep. 407.
For the plaintiffs, 7. Sergeant and Dallas contended, 1st. That
although the defendant was not, obliged to accept the consignment, yet, if he did accept it, he was answerable, like every
other agent, or factor, for a breach of the positive orders of his
principal. 1 Beazoes L. Al. 44. 46. Mtoll. 493. 497. 4 Com.
Dig. 227, 8. 2 Cha. Cases, 57. 4 Rob. 218. 1 Jifarsh. 206, 7.
209, 210. 9d. That a}though the jury had a great and useful
latitude in cases of tort, and mixed cases of negligence and tort,
where no precise standard of damages was established; the legal
discretion of a jury, could indulge in no capricious, or conjectural, estimate, in cases of contract, express, or implied, where a
mere calculation of figures furnishes a certain and uniform standard of right. 2 B!. Rep. 942. 4 T. Rep. 654, 5. 5 T. R . 255.
Barnes, 455. 448. 1 Stra. 425. 3d. That on these principles the

defendant was liable for the debt, as if he were a purchasor of
the goods; and every purchasor is chargeable with interest, after the usual term of credit is expired. I Dall. Rep. 265. Doug.
361. 2 Bos. & Pull. 337. Crawford v. Willing. ant.
The COURT, in their charge to the jury, expressly declared an
opinion, that, on the evidence, the plaintiffs were entitled to recover the full amount of the .original debt, with sutLh reasonable
compensation for the delay of payment, as the jury should think
proper.
The jury, however, gave a verdict for only 468 dollars 44.
cents, which was -the amount of the plaintiffs' demand (after crediting the remittance) estimating the sterling money at par, allowing the defendant a commission, and deducting the interest.
The jury added, that the plaintiffs should pay the costs. (1)
(1) The finding of the jury, that the plaintiffs should pay the costs, was, t
once, abandonel by ilhe defendant's counsel, on general principles; but Ingercalol stated, that the first judicial law provided, that the plaintiffshould not be
:llowecd costs, if he recovered a sum less than 500 dollars; 6 Vol. 16. s. 3. 1 w.
61. .. 20. and that ahhough the action was instituted, when the sum required,
in that respect, was only 400 dollars; yet, lie referred to a decision of Judge
CHASE'S, ill the Circuit Court of Delaware, which pronounced, that the act
repealing the latter pro%isiop, revived the former, and was to be applied to all
.Sent,
,A or future. Dallas referred, however, to the acts of congress:
Siil
11. 6.jol. 16.,. 4. And the CoURt declared that the plamntifs
5 ol 23..
were clearly entitled to costs.

The

CIRCUITT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

S91

The plaintiffs' counsel then moved for a new trial, because the 1804.
verdict was against law, evidence, and the charge of the Court:

but, after argument, the motion was over-ruled; and it was observed by WASHINGTON. .7ustice, that although he was not satisfied with the verdict, nor should he have assented to it as a juror; yet, the question of damages, or of interest in the nature of
damages, belonged so peculiarly to the jury, that he could not
allow himself to invade their province; while he felt a determination to prcvent, on their part, any invasion of the judicial province of the Court.

