SUPREME COURT
or

PENNSYLVANIA.

January Term 1792.
Bradley's Lessee versus Agnes Bradley.

E

JECT'MENT tried in Dauphin county. The lands in question were once, incontestably, the lands of the defendant;
for, the plaintiff claimed under her. The plaintiff set up an immediate title by the will of Samuel Bradley, deceased (the husband
of the defendant) who devised the premises to him, the contents
of the will being proved by the person who drew it; but in order
to prove a title in the devisor, parol evidence was, also, given, that
the defendant had previously conveyed to him in fee. To rebut
this evidence, proof was produced, that the conveyance in fee
was executed, merely for the purpose of making the devisor a
plaintiff in parition; and that, immediately afterwards, that conveyance-'was destroyed; and a deed (which was exhibited)
made to him for ife. The principal question agitated in Court
was, whether the deed for life, was genuine, or forged? But
when the jury withdrew, two of them testified to their brethren,
that, although the defendant had bought the land; yet, the bonds,
which she gave for the purchase money, were unpaid, when she
intermarried with the testator, and that the testator had been
obliged to discharge them. On this repiesentation, several of the
Jury, who were before in favour of the defendant's tide, concurred
in finding a 'verdict for the the plaintiff: and a motion was made
for a new trial, on the following grounds.
1st. That the verdict was against evidence, and the opinion of
the Court.
2d. That the jury had misbehaved, by hearing testimony, which
was not delivered in open Court.
3d. That evidence was allowed to be given of the contents of
a deed, and of a will, without previous notice to the defendant to
produce it.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C.

1

On arguing the motion for a new trial, Ingersoll,for the defend- 1 92.
ant, produced the depositions of two of the jurors, setting forth,
that, after the jury had withdrawn, two other jur6rs had a firtned
certain matters of fact, which (though the facts were denied at
the time) had indaced the deponents to find a verdict for the
plaintiff: and, also, the depositions of two witnesses, contradicting
the facts, that had been so affirmed. Lewis, for the plaintiff, produced the depositions of six of the jurors, explaining their con.duct, and averring, that the whole twelve were of opinion, that
another deed, conveying the premises in fee, had been executed.
After commenting on the evidence, upon the.first and second
grounds of exception to the verdict, Ingersoll cited the following
authorities upon the second ground to show, that the -evidence
of the misconduct of the jurors was admissible: Cro. E. 189.
Moore, 599. 2 .Morg. Ess. 25. 1 Stra. 644. Salk. 647.. and the
following authorities upon the third ground to show, that parol
evidence'of the contents of a deed can only be admitted, after
notice to produce the deed itself. 2 T. Rep. 43. 261. 4 Burr.
2489. He, also, urged that it was a cause of value; and, in every
aspect, merited reconsideration. '1 Dall. 2374. 12 Vin. -br. 336.
47. 12 Mod. 347, 8. Doug. 118. 123.
For the plaintiff, Lewis observed, that the verdict was given
on a qtiestion of fact, after a full hearing, in a'case, in which' a
recovery is not conclusive; and'that the principle which influenced
Courts to interfere with the province of juries, .by setting aside
a verdict, did not apply to such a case. "He investigated the evidence on the trial; and insisted, 'that it was not necessary for
the ilaintiff to produce the deed in fee, but 6ni; t6 establish that
it once existed, for, no subse quent destruction of it, could revest
the estate in the grantor; that whatever difference of opinion
might exist, on other points, the jury were unanimously of opinion,
that such'a deed was executed; and it was immaterial to the issue,
on the question of title, whether the defendant had paid the purchase money, or not. As to the parol evidence of the will, the
copy of one will wasq.produced, and the scrivener, who drew the
other, besides testifying what. passed on the occasion, when the
defendant was present, exhibited the original rough notes of the
draft. If *thisevidence was admissible, it was conclusive; for,
she knew of the devise to the plaintiff in fee, and she acquiesced
in it. It was admissible, without notice to produce the will; because, it was not offered to establish a title under the will, but to
prove co-temporaneous conversations and actions of the parties,
from which the fact of ah existing conveyance, in fee, to the testator, might be inferred. The-general rule, ho'wever, is conceded,
that in order tointroduce parol evidence of the contents of a deed,
its*existence and loss must be proved; or proof must be given
that it was in the possession of the opposite paty, who refused
VOL. IV.
Q
after

Lil

1792.

CAsEs RIuLPD AND ADJUDGED IN THE

after reasonable nkotice to produce it. But the evidence, in the

~ present case, was not offered to prove the contents of a deed in
tht- k-fendant's po.sses.vion; but the contents of a deed, which
she had actually destro./ed. The reason of the rule ceasing, the
rule itself must cease. The only remaining topic for remark, respects the misconduct of the jurors; upon which there is an essential variance in the evidence. But, it is enough to say, that
if the jury did misbehave, the proof of the fact, in order to affect
themselves, or their verdict, must proceed from anothef quarter:
it cannot be received on their own depositions. 1 T. Rep. 11.
Ingersoll, in reply. The motion for a new trial is as proper,
and as much countenanced, in ejectments, as in any other suits.
4 Burr. 2221. If a deed, given for a special purpose, is afterwards cancelled, and a subsequent deed is accepted by the
grantee for a less'estate, the destruction of the first deed will
operate as a revestment. Whether the deed in fee was given for
a special purpose, constitutes the great inquiry in the present
cause; and the establishment of the fact will be decisive one
way, or the other. Nothing can fairly be inferred, from the supposed acquiescence of the defendant in the devise; for, the devise does not specify the land in question; but includes it, if it
is included, in a general sweeping clause, disposing of all his ieal
and personal estate. The rule, as to giving the contents of deeds
in evidence, is not susceptible of the qualifications suggested for
the plaintiff; nor was there any idea at the trial, that the deed was
destroyed, though it was said to be secreted. As to the mode of
proving the misconduct of a jury, it must be conceded, that the
Courts have varied in their opinions and practice. How firjurors
should be permitted to accuse themselves of a high misdemeanor,
is a doubt. Yet, in 3 T. Rep. a witness, who had received a
bribe, was permitted to pr6ve the act of corrupting him against
the defendant; because, the necessity of the case required it. A
similar necessity seems to furnish the same law, in cases like the
present. In Cowpertlmaite v. 7ones, the jury settled the damages
by a mesne form, taken from a calculatiori of the several sums,
which the jurors, individually, set down; and, on a motion for a
new trial, the affidavits of the jurors, proving the fact, were
read, and considered by the Court. That the matters stated,
were immaterial to the issue, cannot surely avail the plaintiff;
when it is recollected, that they had a decisive effect against
the defendant; and that they were false.
After adlisement, the CouRT were clearly of opinion, that a
-4new trial ought to be granted.
Rule for a new trial absolute.

