CIRCUIT COURT,
PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

October Term .1805.
Present

Associate Judge of the Supreme Court.
PETERs, District Judge.

WASHINGTON,

Penn's Lessee versus Klyne.
Y an act of the General Assembly of Pennsylvania, passed
on the 27th day of November 1779 (1 vol. State Laws, 622.
Dlail, edit.) the estates of the late proprietaries were vested in the
tommonwealth, subject -to the following proviso:
" Sect. 8. Provided also, That all and every the private estates,
lands and hereditamnents, of any of the said proprietaries, whereof
they are now possessed, or to which they are now entitled, in
their private several right or capacity, by devise, purchase or descent; .and likewise all the lands called and known by the name of
-the proprietary tenths or manors, which were duly surveyed, and
returned into the Land-office, on or before the fourth day of 7uly,
in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and seventy-six, together with the quit or other rents, and arrearages of
rents, reserved out of the said- proprietary tenths or manors, or
any part or parts thereof, which have been sold, be confirmed, ra.tified and established for ever, according to such estate or estates
therein, and under such limitations, uses and trusts, as in and by
the several and respective reservations, grants and conveyances
thereof, are directed and appointed."
The present suit, and a number of other ejectments, were
brought for tracts of land, lying in fork county; in all of which,
the general qu-stion was, whaler the land was included in a tract
called and known by the name of a proprietary manor, duly surveyed

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C.

4,

eyed and returned into the land-office, on or before the 4th day 1805.
of.1tdly 1776?
The title of the lessor of the plaintiff to the premises in dispute,
was regularly deduced from the charter of Charles the 2d to
William Penn, (1) provided there was a manor called and known
by the name Df Springetsbury, duly surveyed and returned, according to the terms and meaning of the act of November 1779.
The material facts, upon the controverted point, were these:
At the time that Sir William Keith was governor of the province,
the controversy betwueen the proprietor and Lord Baltimore had
arisen; and many persons from Maryland intruded upon the adjacent lands in Pennsylvania. Under the pressure of these intrusions, Sir William, on the 18th of /une 1722, issued a warrant
to Yohn Freneh, Francis Worley and
names Mitchell, in which
he recited, " that the three nations of. Indians on the north side
of Susquehanna are much disturbed, and the peace of the colony
in danger, by attempts to survey land on the south west bank of
the river, over against the Indian towns and settlements, without
any right, or pretence of authority, so to do, from the proprietor,
unto whom the lands unquestionably belong;, that it is agreeable
to treaty and usage to reserve a sufficient quantity of land, on the
south-west side of the Susquehanna, within the proprietor's land,
for accommodating the said Indians: and that the Indians had requested, at a treaty, held on the 15th and 16th instant, that a large
tract of land, right against their towns on ,Susquihannamight be
surveyed for the proprietor's use- only; because, from his bounty
and goodness, they would always be sure to, obtain whatsoever
was necessary ind convenient for them, from time to time." Sir
IWilliam's warrant then proceeded, that " by virtue of the powers
wherewith he is entrusted for the preservation of his majesty's
peace in this province, and with a due respect and regard to the
propietor's absolute title, and unquestionable rights, he directs
and authorises, the persons named in the warrant, to cross and
survey, mark and locate, 70,000 acres in the name and for the use
of Springet Penn Esq., which shall bear the name, and be called
the manor, of Springetsbury: beginning upon the south-west
bank, over against.Conestogoecreek; thence W. S. W. 10 miles;
thence N. W. by N. 12 miles; thence E. N.0 E. to the uppermost corner of a tract called Ndwberry; thence S. E. by S. along
the head line of Newberry, to -the southern corner tree of Newberry; thence down the side line of Newberry E. N. E. to the
Susquchanna; and thence down the river siae to the place of beginning: And to return the warrant to the governor and council
of Pennsylvania." The survey being executed on the 19th and
20th of Yusze, was returned to the council, ori the 21st of Yune
1722, according to the following boundaries: " From a red oak,
(1) The original charter was given in evidence upon the tria.

" by

404

CAsEs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN TRE

1805. "by.a run's side, called Penn's run, marked S. P. IV. S. W. 10
" miles to a chesnut bv a run's side callL d French'srun, marked
"S. P.; thence N. IV. bv N. to a black oak marked S. P. 12
" miles; thence E. N. E. to Sir W.
Keith's western corner
" tree in the woods 8 miles; thence along. the S. E. and N. E.
" lines of Sir Win. Keith's tract called Newberry -o the Su'que"hanna; and thence along the river side to the place of begin"fning; containing 75,520.acres."
Sir William Keith having communicated these proceedings
to the council, on the second of 7uy 1722, it was thereupon
declared, that "so far as, they concerned, or touched, with
the proprietary affairs, they were not judged to lie before the
Board;" which acted as a council of state, and not as commis4ioners of property. Col. French (one'of the surveyors who executed the warrant) then undertook to vindicate the conduct of
Sir Win. Keith to the council, stating that "the warrant specified
" his true reasons; and that it was,. under all circumstances, the
- only effectual measure, for quieting the minds of the Indians,
"and preserving the public peace." The warrant and sur'ey,
however, could. not be returned into the land-office at that time;
for, it was said, that the land-office continued shut from the death
of W. Penn in 1718, until the arrival of T. Penn in 1732: "nor
does it appear,. that they were ever filed in the land-office, at any
subsequent period.
In order to resist the Maryland intrusions; encouragement was
offered by Sir W. Keith, and accepted, by a number of Germans,
for forming settlements on the tract, which had been thus surveyed; and in October 1736, Thomas Penn having purchased the
Indian claim to the land, empowered Samuel Blunston to grant
licencas for 12,000 acres (which was sufficientto satisfy the rights
of those who .had settled, perhaps, fifty in number) within the
tract of land "commonly'called the' manor of Springet.sbury,"
.under the invitations of the governor. But in addition to such settiers, not only the population of the tract in dispute, but of the
neighbourhig country, rapidly increased.
The controversy -with Marylandwas finally scttled in the year
1762, at which time Yames Hamilton was governor of the province; and, on the 21st of May of that year, he issued a warrant
of re-survey, in which it was set forth, "that in pursuance of the
primitive regulations, for laying out lands in the province, W.
Penn had issued a warant, dated the 1st of September 1700, to
" Edward Pennington, the surveyor 'general, to survey for the
£ proprietor, 500 acres of every township of 5000 acres; and,
" generally, the proprietary one tenth of all lands laid out, and to
4c be laid out; that like warrants had been issued by the succesItsive proprietaries tc. every succeeding surveyor general; that
't the tracts surveyed, however, are far short of the -due propor"tions of "Jhe proprietary; that) therefore, by order of the then
" corinassjoners

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

405

" conimissone of property, andin virtue of the generalwarrant 1805.
aforesaidto the then survey,or general, there'was surveyedfor
the use of t/c proprietoron the 19th and 20th of Yune 1722, a
certain tract of land, situate on the west side of the river Sus.
quehanna, then in the county of Ches-ter, afterwards of Lancastev, and now of rork, containing about 70,000 acres, called and
now well known by the name of the manor of Springetsbury;
" that sundry Gernans and others afterwards seated them" selves by leave of the proprietor on divers parts of the said
* manor, but confirmation of their titles was delayed on account
C of the Indian claim; that on the I1th of October 1736, the In" dians released their claim, when (on the 30th of October 1736)
a licence was given to each settler (the whole grant computed
"at 12,000 acres) promising patents, after surveys should, be
" made; that the survey of the said tract of land is either losi, or
" mislaid; but that from the well known settlements and improvements made by the said licenced settlers therein, and the
many surveys made round the said manor, and other proofs
C and circumstances, it appears that the said tract is bounded E.
"by the Susquehanna, W. by a north and south line west of the
" late dwelling plantation of Christian Elstor, called Oyster, a licenced settler, N. by a line nearly east and west distant
" about three miles north of the present great roads, leading from
" Wright's ferry through Tork- Town by the said Christian Oys" ter's phintation to lonockass.zj; S. by a line near east and
west distant about three miles south of the great road aforesaid;
£C that divers of the said tracts' and settlements within the said
', manor, have been surveyed and confirmed by patents and maC ny that have been surveyed remain to be confirmed by patents,
" for which the settlers have applied; that the proprietor is deC sirous, that a complete draft, or map, and return of survey of
"the said manor shall be replaced and remain for their and his
use, in the surveyor general's office, and also in the secreC tarv's office; that
by special order and direction a survey
"for the proprietor's use was madd by Thomas Cookson, deputy
" surveyor (in 1741) of a tract on both sides -of the Codorus,
C within the said manor, for thc scite of a- town, whereon rorh" Town has since been laid out and built, but no return of that
.' survey being made, the premises were re-surveyed by George
"Stevenson, dtputy surveyor (in December 1752) and found to
contain 436. acres." After this recital the warrant directed the
surveyor general 1'to re-survey the said tract, for the proprietor's
"1 use, as part of his one-tenth, in order that the bounds and lines
" thereof may be.certainly known and ascertained." On the 13th
of May 1768, the governor's secretary, by letter, urged the- surveyor general to make a survey and return of the outline of the
manor at least; the survey was accordingly executed -on the 12th
and 30th of rune; and th plat was returned into theland-office,
and, also, into the secretary's office on the 12th of .7uI 1768,
containing
"
"
"

406

CAsrs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1805. containing 64,520 acres; a part of the original tract of 0,000
L-acres having been cut off, under the agreement between Penn
and Baltimore, to satisfy the claims of Maryland settlers.
On the trial of the cause, evidence was given on each side, to
maintain the opposite positions, respecting the existence or non6xistence of the manor of .pringetsbury, fi'om public instruments;
from the sense expressed by the proprietaries, before tke revolution, in their warrants and patents; from the sense expressed by
the warrants and patents issued since the revolution; from the
practice of the land-office; and from the current of public opinion.
The general ground taken by the plaintif's counsel (E. Tilghman, Lewis, and Rawle) was, 1st. That the land mentioned in
the declaration is a part of a tract called, or known by the name of
a proprietary manor. 2d. That it was a proprietary manor duly
,surveyed, within the true intent and meaning of the act of the
general assembly. And, 3d. That the survey was dily made and
returned before the 4th of Yuly 1776.
The defendant's counsel (M'Kean, attorney general, Hophins
and Dallas) contended, 1st. That Sir Wm. Keith's warrant being issued in 1722, without authority, all proceedings on it were
absolutely void; and that neither the warrant, nor survey, had ever
been returned into the land-office. 2d. That governor Hamilton's
warrant was issued in 1762, to re-survey a manor, which had
never been legally surveyed, and was, in that respect, to be regarded as a superstructure without a foundation. 3d. That the
recitals of governor Hamilton's warrant are not founded in fact;
and that considering the suivey, in pursuance of it, as an original
survey, it was void, as against compact, law, and justice, that the
proprietor should assume for a manor, land, that had been previously located and settled by individuals.
The following charge was delivered to "thejury:
.VAS
INGTON, Yustice. In this cause there are two questions,
1st. Have the lessors of the plaintiffs a title to the lAnd in question.
If they have, 2d. Has the defendant a better right?
1 st. The lessors of the plaintiffs, or those under whom they claim,
were once the sole owneis and proprietaries, not only of the government, but of the soil, of Pennsylvania, not in a political, but
in their private and individual capacities; not as trustees for the
people, as to the whole, or any part of the soil, but in absolute
fee simple, for their individual uses, and this right was no otherwise defined1, by concessions on agreements, by WVilliam Penn, or
his descendants, than to render them trustees for such individuals,
as-should acquire equitable rights, to particular portions of land,
under general or special promises, rules and regulations, u hich
they may, from time to time, have entered into and established.
Their

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

407

Their right to appropriate lands to their own use, was not de- 1805.
rived from, or founded upon, .any such rules or concessions, but %-.y..
flowed from their original chartered rights, which bestowed upon
them the whole of the soil. But as it was their interest to encourage
the population and settlement of the province, they erected an
offile, and laid down certain rules for its government, and the
government of those who might wish to acquire rights to the unappropriated lands in the province, reserving to themselves a right
to appropriate one tenth of the whole to themselves, for their private and individual uses. From hence the following principles
resulted: that all -persons, complying with the terms thus held
out, acquired a right to the proportion of land, thus appropriated,
not only against other individuals, who might thereafter attempt
to appropriate the same land, but even against the proprietor
himself, unless he had previously, and by some act of notoriety,
evidenced his intention to withdraw such land from the general
mass of property, and to appropriate it to his indi-iidual use. As
a necessary consequence of this principle, whenever such was his
intention, or was made known by a warrant of appropriation and
a survey, to make out, and locate the ground thus withdrawn,
this was notice lp all the world, that no right to the land, thus
laid off for the proprietaries, could be acquired by individuals,
without a special agreement with the proprietaries, which might,
or might not, be upon the common terms, as the proprietors might
choose. But if betbre such special appropriation by the proprietaries, an individual had, in compliance with the office rules,
appropriated a tract, w;'hin the bounds of the tract thus laid off
for the proprietaries, such prior appropriation, would no otherwise affect the rights of the proprietaries, than in relation to the
particular tracts thus claimed. His right to the residue, remained
unaffected. On thi" ground the right of the first proprietor stood
at the time of his death, and so continued to exist, in his legal
representatives, until the year A. D. 1779, when a law of this state
was passed, divesting the proprietaries of all their estate, right and
title, in, or to, the soil of Pennsylvania,and vesting the same in the
Commonwealth. But in this law, certain portions of land, within
the Commonwealth are excepted, and the right of the proprietaries, to such portions, is confirmed and established forever. The
lessors of the plaintiffs, who most undoubtedly are entitled to all
the rights of the Proprietaries, are compelled to date their title,
from this law; and therefore it is necessary fer them to show, that
the land in question, is part of a tract of land, called and known
by the name of a proprietary-tenth or manor; which was duly surveyed, and returned into the land-office, on or before the 4th of
Yulq 1776.
They are to prove, 1st, that this was in 1779 called and known.
by the name of a proprietary-tenth or manor. The words of the
law are peculiar. As to their private rights, tht-y must be ,uch
whereof

408

CASES RULED AND A1JUDGED IN TH

1805. whereof they were in 1779 possessed, or to. which they were
%
entitled. But as to the tenths or manors, it was sufficient if they
were known by that name, and had been surveyed and returned,
before the 4th of Jz.ly 1776. These expressions respecting the
manors, were rendered necessary, to avoid givingthe word marnor
a technical meaning; for there were no manors, in a legal acceptation of the word, in this state, but there were'fiany tracts of land.
appropriated to the sepal-ate use bf the proprietaries, to which this
name had been given. The first inquiry therefore, under this
head, is, was the land in question. part of a tract of land called,
and known as a manor, in the year 1776 or 1779? To prove this
fact, the licences granted by Tonas Penn, in 1736, to about 50
settlers, in different parts of the first, as well as second, survey, in
which this is called the manor of .pringetsbuy, is strongly relied
upon, to show, that, even at that early period, .it had acquired this
name: The tenor of the warrants afterwards granted for lands
within this manor, varying from the terms of the common warrants,
and this variance proved by witnesses, as marking this for manor
land The testimony of witnesses to show that the west line of this
manor was always reputed to go considerably beyond Tork to
Oyster's. The practice of surveyors and public officers, whenever
warrants were issued to survey hinds in the manor.- But even if
this tract of land had never acquired the name of a manor, prior
to 1768, the survey made of it in that /_ar, as a manor, is conclusive. Fr6m that periodit acquired, by matter of record, the name
of a manor; and so it appears, .by the evidence in the cause, it was
called nid known.
2d. Was it duly surveyed and returned into the land office before the 4th of Yuly 1776? That it was surveyed in 1768, is
admitted; but, it is contended, that it was not duly surveyed. It is
so contended, because it w s surveyed in 1722. That survey it
is said, was void, because made without authority, Was not
e.7ccuted by the surveyor general, and was returned into the council
of state's office. That survey then being void, it is said, vitiates the
survey of 1768: the former being considered as the foundation,
and the lattpr as the superstructure. The survey of 176& is executed, it is argued, under a warrant of re-survey in 1762, ahd
onsequently the repetition of an act which has no validity, cannot
give it validity' It is further argued, that the recital of the loss of
the survey o'f 1722, is a mere pretence, a fraud, to enable the
proprietaries to exchange bad land for good. Now I do not understand this kind of logic: it is far too refined for the sober
judgment of men who have to deide. If the invalidity of the first
survey can have my effect upon the second, I should suppose it
would establish it beyond all doubt; because, if the first survey was
good, and if the warram of 1762 was merely an order to retrace
the lines of that survey, the counsel migh.t, with some plausibility
at least, argue that the surveyor was bound to pursue the lines of
the

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

409

the lines of the former survey; and this would give colour to his 1805.
observations, fodnded on the mistake of the public officers, as to I
the proper lines- of the survey. But if the first survey was unauth6rized, and utterly void, then the second could not, in the nature
of things, be a resurvey. Whatever words were used in the warrant,
there is no magic in that word. If there never was a former survey,
there could be no resurvey; and consequently the survey, of 1768,
was an original survey, founded on a special warrant, marking out
the'lines and bounds, by which the surveyor was to go, and such
is the fact in this case, although the survey of 1722, is referred
to in the warrant of 1762, yet the lines to be surveyed under this
second warTant, are specially described. To those he was confined;
and had he departed from them, the survey would, unless it was
rectified by acceptance, have been void, as against the proprietary,
and he might have directed it to be made again. It is not denied,
but that the survey of 1768, is in conformity with the warrant.
It was accepted as a vilid survey, and I cannot see .hpon what
ground the defendants, or any other person, can no.wvsay, that it w-.s
void. Had not the proprietary a right to appropriate to his.private
use, the land includea within the survey of 1768, in part of the
tenth, which he had always reserved to himself? And if the
warrant and survey makes the appropriation, what does it signiX,
whether there w-as a prlor survey or not? or whether it was
good or bad? True, if previously to the warrant of 1762, third.
persons had acquired a right to parcels of this land, or had done
so afterwards, aiid before the survey in 1768, (but without notice
of the warrants,) the proprietaries would have been bound to
inake them titles, upon their complying with the terms of the
grants to them. But this could not impeach his title to the residue
of the land, compreliended within the lines of the survey. Upoi
the whole thcn, the court is of opinion, that this manor was duly
surveyed; afid it is admitted, that the survey was returned into
the land office, before the 4th of 5irly 1776. If so, the plaintiffs,
title is unuestionable.
2d. Has thq defendant a better title ? Ie claims by warrant.
in 1747, regularly brought down to him, for 95 :'-es. He has nu
patent, but yet by the common law of this state, a warrant and
.3urvey, if the consideration be paid, is considered 'a legal title
against the proprietary, as much so as if he had a patent. If the
consideration be not paid, then the legal title is not out of the
proprietaries; but still tlrm warrant holder has an equitable title,
which it is in his power to render a legal .ne, by paying what ia
due to the proprietaries. No proof is given of paymnt by the
,lefenda.pt, or any one of those under whom he claims, hut you are
called upon to presune it fro:i length of time. Now in a case of
this sort, there is no room for presumption, the very circumstance
of the deti idant appea.rihig'in court without a patent, or without
ihewing, or pretcnding, that any lever ws granted, destrovs the
VOL. IV.
.1 G
Presunlption

410
i

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED I'l THr

180L. presumption, which length. of time might have created. For if he
had paid, he would have been entitled that moment to a patent:
the one was the necessary consequence of the other. Men might
long forbear to call for this confirmation of their titles, from the
inconvenience of paying the consideration, but that he should pay,
and not go on to perfect his title, is altogether improbable, and certainly not to be presumed; but if the jury could presume any.thing
from length of time, yet that presumption may be repelled and in
this case is.
The deed of 1771, from Pence, the grantee, to Shultz, proved
that he had not paid, and the deed from Shultz's executors to
Stump, in 1794, that it was not then paid. The defendant, therefore , has not a legal title to authorize a verdict in his favour; but
he has an equitable title, and may compel a grant, upon paying,
.or tendering, what is due to the plaintiffs, with costs of this suit.
And if the plaintiffs should then refuse, this court sitting in equity,
would compel them, at the expence of paying costs. In the state
court, I understand, the jury may make a kind of special or conditional finding, in consequence of the having no court of equity.
But this court having equitable jurisdiction, your verdict must be
general.
Verdict for the Plaintiffs. (1)

Guppy et at. versus Browii.
COMMISSION had issued to four commissioners, jointly,
to take the depositions of witneses'in England. It was executed and returned by three of the commissioners only, two of
whom, however, were of the defendant's nomination.
A

At the trial of the cause, the defendant's counsel objected to
the feading of the depositions; and cited 1 Bac. Abr. 202. 2 Inst.
The plaintiffs' counsel observed, that the commission had not
ssued in the'usual form; but insisted that as the defendant's
(1) As some of the persons, interested in the ejectments brought for lands
n
1S
*n,etbu)y manor, had purchased from the state; and as the state would
be Ciatued to all arrears of purchase money, if the proprietary title should not
be establishied; the legislature had authorised the governor to employ counsel
to ass:st the counsel of the defcudants. After the decision of the above case,
'the l1eislature apprinted 'Iamez Rzz and 7arnez Hopline, Esqrs. to take defence in the next ejectment, .Pehn'. lessee v. Groff,-u hich was tried in .Arilterm
1806; and upon the same charge, the same verdict was given. The defendant's
counsel, having tendered a bill of"exceptions, to the charge of the court, arrangeme.ats were made to obtain a flnal decision in the Supreme C-urt, upon a
%writ
of error. It appears, however, from the journals, that the legislature is not
disposed to interfere any further; and, I have been informed, that terms of
-4omprpos" e have been proposed, and aecepted, by the parties.

commissioners

