SUP IVER

COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Smith versus Brodhead's Executors.
T

HIS cause was tried at Berks, Fisi Prius, in October 1791,

when the jury found the following special verdict:
" The jury find, that in the vear 1785, the plaintiff sold a tract of
cc land to Daniel Brodhead, Esq. (the husband of Rebecca Bradchead, the defendant's testatrix) for the sum of 500!.; that the
"land has since been sold, by execution, after the death of Re"becca Brodhead, the testatrix, for the proper debt of the said
"Daniel, that 150. of the purchase money was paid in hand,
"and the said Rebecca gave six bonds for the payment of the
"residue, in annual. instalments; that the said Rebecca, at the
"c time of executing the bonds, was a feme covert, living with
" her husband, and continued so to do, until her death; that she
cc was seised of a separate estate, under a deed of settlement,
" with power, inter alia, to make a will; that by her'last will,
"9 duly proved, she appointed the defendant her executor, and,
"1inter alia, diiected tle payment of her debts; that two of the
" bonds were duly paid in the lifetime of the said Rebecca; and
"the present action is brought upon another of the bonds.
" If upon the above case, the Court should be of opinion, that
'the plaintiff is entitled to recover, thejury find for the plaintiff in
'this cause 601. delt, 121. 12s. damages, and six pence costs:
'otherwise, they find for the defendant."
The general question was, whether the bond of afenze covert,
sound her est~te, in the hands of her executors, under the cir4iamstances stated, in the special verdict?
For the laintzff, the case was discussed on several grounds:
ls .That a Court of Chancery would give relief upon the bond.
2d. That to prevent a failure of justice, the Courts of Penn.myl.
vania will amplify their jurisdiction, upon principles of equity.
3d. That the will of the testatrix, directing the payment of debts,
would make the bond a charge on the executors, as a debt in
equity. And the following authorities were cited to show the
principle, on which a Court of equity would interpose; and the
extent to which the Courts of Pennsylvania had exercised an
.equitable jurisdiction. 1 Vez. 517. 163. Prec. Ch. 328. Gilb. Eq.
83. 2 Ve34. 193. Brown. Chan. "20. 2 Ati. 68. 1 T. Rep. 5.
Pow. on Cont. 89. 1 Dal. 213, 4. 339, 340. Eq. Rep. Gilb. 84.
1 Dal. 17. 72. 428. 2 Vern. 225. Doug. 53. Coup. 201. 4.
The executors being bound to pursue the directions of the wifl,
the .devisee ought not to be pernitted to resist it.
For the defendant. A Court of Chancery would not do that
for the plaintiff, which would be the c.onsequence of a general
judgment in his favour. The wife's engagements have never
been

115
1792.

,116

CAsEs RULED AND ADJUDGE

IN THE'

1792. been satisfied in equfity, beyond her personal estate, and the rents
and issues of her real estate; but a general judgment in Penn.
sylvania, would bind the real estate absolutely; so that it might
be taken in execution and sold. If, indeed, this were a Court of
equity, the defendant might make many matters appear to rebut
the plaintiff's equity, which it is too late to urge on a special
verdict. And this Court, as a Court of common law, will never
co4sider bonds as appointments, when the party could not legally
enter into a bond. 2 P. Wms. Norton v. Turrf. I Br. Ch. 16.
Gur. adv. vult. (1).

L-y--'

The Commonwealth versis Dillon. (2)
HE prisoner (a boy about 12 years old) was indicted for
arson,-in burning several stables, containing hay, &c. He
was examined before the mayor of the city of Philadelphia, on
the 20th of December 1791, and then confessed the, commission
of the offences, with which he was charged. But, as his own
confession was the principal 'evidence (indeed there was no other
positive evidence) against him, his counsel insisted, that it was,
obtained under such duress, accompanied with threats and piomises, as destroyed its legal credit and validity. The evidence
on that point was, substantially, as follows:
On the 18th of Decenber, the prisoner was committed to the
jair of Philadelphia,and the next day was taken before the mayor;
but, at that time, he made no confession. On the 18th and 19th
of December he was visited and intenogated, by several respectable citizens, who represented to him the enormity of the crime;
urged a free, open, *andcandid, confession-, which would so excite public compassion as, probably, to be the means of obtaining a pard on; while a contrary course of conduct would leave
him, in case of a convi.tion, without hope: and they added, that
they would themselves stand his friends, if he would confess.
The inspe tcrs of the prison endeavoured, likewise, to obtain from
him a discovery of his oflcnces, and of his accomplices. They
carried him into the dungeon; they displayed it in all its gloom
and horror; they said that he would be confined in it, dark, cQld,
and hungry, unless-he nade a full disclosure; but if he did make
a disclosure, he should be well accommodated with room, fire,
and victuals,, and might expect pity and favour. The prisoner
continued to deny -his guilt for sometime; and when his master
visited him, he complained of the want of clothes, fire, and iourT

(1) The Reporter has not been able to trace the decision of this cause.
(2) The trial was held at a Court of Oyer and T'rniner, in Philadelphia,on
the 31st of Yaanxary 1792 before M'KEAz;, Chitef Yustice, and SiIIPPEZ and

ishment..

