.430

CAsEs RULED ANI5 ADJUDGED IN THE -

1806. refer to the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of England
(from whose code and practice, we derive our systems of jurisprudence, and, generally speaking, obtain the best glossary) but
no case, no authority, has been produced to show, that in England
such a prosecution would be sustained (independent of acts. of
parliament) as a cause of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
Nor, am I disposed to consider the doctrine of the civil law,
which has been mentioned, as furnishing a guide, to escape from
the silence of our own code, as well as of the English code, upon
the subject.
Upon the whole, therefore, I am of opinion, that the present
is a case omitted in the law; and that the indictment cannot be
sustained. It is some relief to my mind, however, that I have
no *doubtof -the power of congress to provide fbr such a case.
It is true, that it would be inconsistent with common law notions
to call it murder; but congress, exercising the constitutional
power to define felonics on4ke.. h seas, may certainly provide,
that a mortal stroke on the hFgl iseas, wherever the death may
happen, shall be adjudged to be a felony.
Upon this charge, the jury immediately acquitted the prisoner.
Snell et al.*versus The Delaware Insurance Company.

dollars, at a preon an open policy, for
C OVENANT
inium of 10 per cent., 'upon tihe brig Hound, on a voyage
2500

from aJnaica to Nezew-2crk. The facts were these: the brig and
cargo, belonging to the plaintiffs, sailed on a voyage from New?ork to Curocoa, and back again; but, upon the return voyage,
,he was captured by a British cruiser, and carried into 7amaica,
where vessel and cargo were libelled and condemned, on the 31st
of July 1804, for a breach of blockade. The captain, conceiving
that the vessel would be sold tinder her value, requested Messrs.
C"mnpbell and O'Harra,of Kingston, to buy her in for the owners,
which, was'accordingly done, at the price of 1020?., equal to about
.,500 dollars. For the price of the vessel, amount of repairs, outJits, &c. (in the whole 19391. 4s. lid.) advanced by Campbell and
O'Harra,those gentlemen took from the captain an hypothecation of the vessel, to guarantee the payment of a bill of exchange,
which he drew upon the owners: and, on the 9th of August 1804,
they requested Messrs. Savage and Du1ga7Z tO procure insurance,
upon the vessel for 5000 dollars; which was effected at the office
of the Phcnix Insurance Company, upon the following instructions:
"Brig Hound, Thomas IV.Fuller master, at and from Jamaica
to Xv'n-2ork. We expect she sailed on or about 16th ult. and
' is represented s a fine coppered vessel: 5000 dollars.
" Said
'

C-IRCUiT COURT, PENKSYLVA.NIA DxISTICT.
"
"

431L

1 Said vessel was condemned at Yamaica and purchased for 180G..
the former owners. This insurance was made to cover the sums
advanced, whether the same be secured by a bottomrv bond or
conditional assignment or otherwise howsoever. Premium five
per cent.
" Phnix. Insurance Company."

The owners of the vessel being advised of these proceedings,
stated to Savage and Dugan, that the above insurance was not
sufficient to cover her real value, and directed a further insurance
for 2,500 dollars, which was eflected by the present policy. The
vessel sailed from Yanaica in Alugust 1804; but was never heard
of afterwards. At the expiration of a year, the Phoenix Insurance
Company paid the amount of their subscription; but the defendants refused payment, on which this suit was instituted.
At the trial of the cause, the only disputed question was, wvhether the plaintiffs could go into evidence, to prove the actual
value of the vessel insured; or were bound by thb price, which
was paid for her, under the condemnation, at )amaica? On the*
first ground, the sums insured upon both policies, would be aboilt
the value; and, on the second ground, the amount received from
the Phoenix Insurance Company, would be about sufficient to
cover the loss. (1)
Dallas, for the plaintiffs, maintained the first ground, and cited,

2 Marsh. 529. 534, 535. Park. 282. 287. 1 .Emerig. 263. Val.
art. 8. p. 64. 56. 136. M.11ill. 247. 251. 264. 1 Carnes, 573.
2 Carnes, 20. 23.

Rawle and C6omb:, for the defendants, urged, that the plaintiffs
had no right to insure more than the vessel cost them at 5Janaica; that the Court ought not to direct the jury to inquire into
the value there, beyond the cost; and that the plaintiffs, having
recovered the original value from the underwriters,1.upon the
voyage to Curacoa, had no right to resort to that criterion of
value, on the present occasion.
But the COURT were clearly of opinion, that the plaintiffs were
entitled to prove and to recover the actual value of the vessel, at
the time she was insured. They said a contrary rule, would operate as injuriously to the underwriters, as to the merchant. For; if
the merchant could not insure a ship, or goods, bought at a depreci(1) It appeared in evidence, that the vessel was built in 1802, when he
cost-8,500 dollars; that when she sailed Prom ivr-21ork, in.May 1804, she was
worth between 7000 and 7,500 dollars; that she was insured on the voyage
to Curacoa, in a valued policy, at 70,)9 dollar,; and that she bad been completely repaired at ,*"amaica
ated

432
1806

s

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C.

ated price, under a forced sale, at their real value; neither would
the underwriter, in a case of loss, be entitled to show, upon an
open policy, the actual value of the property, independent of a
fortuitous enhancement of the price, in a foreign market.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs, for 2,378-32 dollars, taking, it is presumed, the value in the outward policy, as
the basis of their calculation.

