CIRCUIT COURT,
PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

October Term 1806.
Pfesent WA sINGTOv, an Associate Judge of the Supreme Court.

PETERs, District Judge.

The United States versus James M'Gill.

THIS

was an indictment for the murder of Richard Budden,
. containing three counts. Ist. Charging the murder to have
been committed on the high seas. 2d. Charging it to have been
c6mmitted in thehaven of Cape .Francois. 3d. Charging the mor.
tal stroke to have been given on the high seas, and the death to
have happened, on shore, at Cape Francois.
The indictment was founded on the 8th section of the penal
law (Ivol. 102.) which provides "that if any person, or persons,
"shall commit- upon the high seas, or in any river, haven, bason,
"1or bay, out of the jurisdiction of any particular state, murder,
" &c. every such offender shall be deemed, taken, and a4judged
"to be a- pirate and felon, and being thereof convicted, shall suf" fer death."

Upon the evidence it appeared, that the prisoner was mate of
the brig Rover, of which Richard Budden, the deceased, was
master; that, on the 3d of .fay 1806, while the brig lay in the
harbour of Cape Francois,the prisoner gave the deceased a "mortal stroke, with a piqce of wood; that the deceased, languishing
with-,"the wound, was taken on shore, alive, the next morning;
and that lie died the day subsequent to that, on which he was
taken on shofe.
Aftcr a defence on the merits, the prisoner's counsel (Ingersoll
and Yosqh Reed) objected, in point of law, that the death, as
well

CAsEs RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C.
well as the mortal blow, were necessary to constitute murder;
and that both the death and the blow must happen on the high
seas, to give jurisdiction to this Court, under the terms of the act
of congress. These positions were elaboratelv argued; and the
following authorities were cited in support of them. 1' ale,
425, 6. 4 Co. 42. 6. 2 H1rale, 188. 3 TZfwk. 188. 333. Piowvd.
1 Hale, 427. Leach C. L. 723. 4 Bl. C. 303. 2 Co. Rcp. 93.
2 -Inst. 1 Hawk. 187. East's C. L. 365. 1 Leon. 270. Cro. E.
196. Leach's C. L. 432.
The attorney of the district premised, that he -,as aware of
this objection to the jurisdiction; but, as there, was no judicial,

decision upon it, he thought it a duty to bring it before the
Court, for an authoritative opinion; and with that view alone, he
meant to submit all the ideas which he could suggest, in mair.
tainance of the jurisdiction. He then considered the case, 1st. On
the constitution and laws of the United States, which provide
for the dcfinition and punishment of felonies and murders on the
high seas; .Const. art. 1. s. 8. 1 vol. 102. s. 8. which provide for the.
locality of the commission of the offence, to vest a federal jurisdiction; I vol. 101. s. 3. 8. which provide for the place and tribunal of trial; onst. art. -. s. 2. 1 vol. 67. s. 29 lb. 102. s. 8.
lb. 53. s. 9. lb. 55. s. 11. which provide as to the manner of
trial; Const. art. 3. s. 2. 1 vol. 67. s. 29. and which provide,
generally, tat .the judicial power of the United States shall extend to all cases of adniralty and maritime jurisdiction. Thus,
for every crime, wvhetlh'r of common law, or admiralty, jurisdiction, a common law trial is provided by jury, and a place of venue
prescribed; but two things are-to be remarked: 1st. That there isnq
definition of the offence of inurd.r (for instance) with a reference
to the common law, any more than to the civil law, which is the
law of the adniraltv. 2d. That locality, as to tle commission of
a crime, is no further limited, than as it respects the high seas,
or is out of the jurisdiction of any pa-ticular state.
2d. On the law of England. The case would he within the
constable and marshal's jurisdiction, at civil law, if the blow and
death were both in a foreign country; or the blow in a fbreign
country, and the death in Englmd: 13 ?. c. 2. 2. 3 Inst. 48.
. 268. If the blow was on sea, and the
1 IVoodes. 139. 4 Bhl
death on ladd, neither the common law, nor the admiralty, have
iurisdiction; nor is it a case under the statute of 23 -. 8. " fbr
the murder was not committed on the sea;" but the constable
and marshal may tiy it, by 13 R. 2. Offences cop.xn: tcd upon the
seas, or in oth'r have~i, river or creek, are triable, by jury, in a
county to be mentioned in a commission, issued under 27 !'. 8.
,' 1. 28 UI. 8. c. 15. The 33 I. 8. r. -23. provides that " per" sons, who have been examined before the king'- council upon
:' treasons, murders, &r. may he trcd in any shire to be named

427
1806.

428

CAsEs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN TRY.

1806. "1in a commission.," in whatever shire, or place, within the king's
Sdominions, or -without, such offencewas committed. The 35 H.
8. c. 2. provides for the trial of treasons, committed out of the
realm, by a jun, in the King's Bench, or before commissioners.
The 11 &g 12 We 3. provildes for the trial of offences in the colonies. The 2 G. 2. i-. 21. provides for the trial of a murder
where the mortal blow is given on the sea, or out of England,
and the death happens in England; or where the blow is given
in England, and the death happens abroad. Then, the only statute
that provides for the case of the mortal blow and the.death botl
happening abroad, is the s3 H. 8. c. 23., under the modification
of a previous examination, &c. before the king's council: and in
Englandthe admiral's civil law jurisdiction, in criminal cases, is
at an efid.
3d. On the civil law. The judicial power of the United States,
extending to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdictibn, ex
vi termini, embraces criminal, as well as civil, cases; and the
civil law, being the law in such cases, it is to be considered
wh-.t the civil law defines. to be murder, as to the act and the
place. The intent, not the event, constitutes the crime. Dig. ad
Leg. Corn. I14. Dom. 211. The crime is committed, if there
be the will to commit it. Ibid. In France, where the criminal
law is founded on the civil law, if a man strikes anoth&', with
intent to kill him, hp is punished with death, thoug the man is
not killed. 1 Denizart. 585. The doctrine of all the-cases cited
for the prisoner, which requires the siroke and the death to be
in the same 6ounty, or within the same urisdiction, is an incident to the common law trial by jury; where the jury of the
vicinage are supposed.to know the fact of their own knowledge;
but it clearly has no application, in cases where the jury does
not come at all from the place, where any part of the crime was
committed. Ce..sante ratione, cessat et ipsa lex. The civil law being considered, therefore, as .the law of the admiralty, remains
under the general delegation of judicial power to the Courts of
the United States, unless it is expressly modified by statute. So
far- as respects the -definition of murder, it has not been modi'fled; but the constitution and acts of congress do provide, that
all crimes, wherever coriimitted, shall be tried by jury; and that
primes committed on the high seas, shall be triedin the district
where the offender is apprehended, or into which he may first be
brought. 1 vol. s. 8. p. 102. (1) If, indeed, this reasoning fails,
(1) After the death bf cpt. Bu.dden, M'Gill had been sent on board the
"Airediator,an armed vessel, there put in irons. and carried to Baltimore, from
which place (without any Arrest, or process issuing against him) I.e vohnta.ilv came to Phiadtplia; and surre;;dered himself for trial to a magistrate.
The attoine" of the district suggested, that, having been first brought into
the district of Maryland,his trial must be there. But, after argument, Judge
PE ERS, decided, that the provisions.of the act were in the alternative; and
that JWGill, being first apprehended in Penns.,teania, might be tried, and
ought to be tried, here.

42E

CIRCUiT COURT" PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

it may be doubted, whether even congress can amend the law, 1806.
so as to reach cases, like the one under consideration, notwithstanding the power "to define and- punish piracies and felonies
9 committed on the high seas ;" Const. art. 1. s. 8. since the
crime of murder (addpting the common law definition) must be
consummate, in the mortal act and consequence, within the ju.risdiction of the United States.
PETERS, Ju~tce. It is a general rule with me, to abstain
from the exercise of jurisdiction, whenever I doubt my authority to exercise it. On the present occasion, it is not necessary to
give an opinion, whether the present is a case of admiralty and.
maritime jurisdiction, upon the general principles of the admiralty and maritime law; for, confining myself to the 8th section
of the penal act, I find sufficient to decide, that, at all events, it
is not a case within the jurisdiction of this Court. The Court
can only take cognizance of a murder committed on the high
seas; and as murder consists in both the stroke and the consequent death, both parts of the crime must happen on the high
seas to give jurisdiction; not one part on the high seas, and an-'
other part in a foreign country.

WASHINGTON, Yustice. The point, principally, urged by the
prisoner's counselh is so clear, that it can receive little elucidation from argument. The offence, of which we have cognizance,
is murder committed on the high seas. Now, murder is a technical term, of known and settled meaning; and, when used by
the legislature, it imports the same, as if they had said, that the
Court shall have jurisdiction, in a case of felonious killing uponthe high seas. We have no doubt, therefore, that the death, as
well as the mortal stroke, must happen on the high seas, to constitute a murder there.
But the more important question is, whether the present case,
remains unprovided for, by the laws of the United States? The
judicial act gives jurisdiction to the Circuit Court, of "all
" crimes and offences, cognizable under the authority of the
" United States." 1 vol. 55. s, 11. There are, undoubtedly, in
my opinion, many crimes and offences against the authority of
the United States, which have not been specially defined by law;
for, I have often decided, that the federal Courts have a common law jurisdiction in criminal cases: and in order to ascertain

the authority of the United States, independent of acts of congress, against which crimes may be committed, we have been'
properly referred to the constitutional provision, that "the judi" cial power shall extend to all cases of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction." But still the question recurs, is this a case of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, within the meaning of the
constitution? The words of the constitution must be taken to
refel

.430

CAsEs RULED ANI5 ADJUDGED IN THE -

1806. refer to the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of England
(from whose code and practice, we derive our systems of jurisprudence, and, generally speaking, obtain the best glossary) but
no case, no authority, has been produced to show, that in England
such a prosecution would be sustained (independent of acts. of
parliament) as a cause of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
Nor, am I disposed to consider the doctrine of the civil law,
which has been mentioned, as furnishing a guide, to escape from
the silence of our own code, as well as of the English code, upon
the subject.
Upon the whole, therefore, I am of opinion, that the present
is a case omitted in the law; and that the indictment cannot be
sustained. It is some relief to my mind, however, that I have
no *doubtof -the power of congress to provide fbr such a case.
It is true, that it would be inconsistent with common law notions
to call it murder; but congress, exercising the constitutional
power to define felonics on4ke.. h seas, may certainly provide,
that a mortal stroke on the hFgl iseas, wherever the death may
happen, shall be adjudged to be a felony.
Upon this charge, the jury immediately acquitted the prisoner.
Snell et al.*versus The Delaware Insurance Company.

dollars, at a preon an open policy, for
C OVENANT
inium of 10 per cent., 'upon tihe brig Hound, on a voyage
2500

from aJnaica to Nezew-2crk. The facts were these: the brig and
cargo, belonging to the plaintiffs, sailed on a voyage from New?ork to Curocoa, and back again; but, upon the return voyage,
,he was captured by a British cruiser, and carried into 7amaica,
where vessel and cargo were libelled and condemned, on the 31st
of July 1804, for a breach of blockade. The captain, conceiving
that the vessel would be sold tinder her value, requested Messrs.
C"mnpbell and O'Harra,of Kingston, to buy her in for the owners,
which, was'accordingly done, at the price of 1020?., equal to about
.,500 dollars. For the price of the vessel, amount of repairs, outJits, &c. (in the whole 19391. 4s. lid.) advanced by Campbell and
O'Harra,those gentlemen took from the captain an hypothecation of the vessel, to guarantee the payment of a bill of exchange,
which he drew upon the owners: and, on the 9th of August 1804,
they requested Messrs. Savage and Du1ga7Z tO procure insurance,
upon the vessel for 5000 dollars; which was effected at the office
of the Phcnix Insurance Company, upon the following instructions:
"Brig Hound, Thomas IV.Fuller master, at and from Jamaica
to Xv'n-2ork. We expect she sailed on or about 16th ult. and
' is represented s a fine coppered vessel: 5000 dollars.
" Said
'

