5!

"I'9tREXE COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

lifted fist, and threatening words, of the defendant, bring the case 1802.
clearly within the .description and punishment of the law.
The CoURT delivered a full and decided opinion, in the
charge to the Jury, that the questions, proposed by the judges of
the election, were illegal; that Mr. Bechly could not,. therefore,
be considered in the execution of his duty, when he insisted
upon an answer to. those questions; and that, consequently, the
defendant was not liable to an indictment, under the election
law (however he might otherwisE be charged) for resisting, in
the-way that he did, the demand upon his father, to ansNer ques.
tions tending to criminate himself.
Verdict, not guilty.

The Commonwealth versus Franklin et al.
N August Session 1801, of the Court of Q~iarter Sessions, the
grand jury of Luzerne county presented the following indictnment:

"Luzerne county ss.
"The Grand- Ihquest for the body of the county of Luzerne,
" upon their oaths respectively do present, that 'fohn Franklin,
Elisha Satterlee,.and 7ohn Jenhins, all late of ihe said county,
"yeomen, on the first day of Aug.ust, in the year of our Lord one
"thousand eight hundred and one, at the county aforesaid, and
" within the jurisdiction of this Court, unlawfully did corn"bine and conspire, for the purpose of conveying, possessing, and
"settling, on certain lands within the limits of the county afore"said, under a certain pretended titld hot derived from the au"thoritv of this commonwealth, or of the late proprietaries of
"Pennsylvania before the revolution, to the evil example of all
"others in like manner offending, contrary to the form of the
"act of general assembly of this state in such cage made and
"provided, and against the Leace and dignity of-the common" wealth of Pennsylvania, &c.'
" And the Jurors aforesaid, upon their oatt- aforesaid, do
"farther respectively present, that the said John Franklln', Elisha
"Satterlee, 7ohn 7enkihu, and Joseph Biles, all :ate of the coun"ty aforesaid, yeomen, on the first day of August, in the year of
"our Lord one thousand eight hundred and one, at the- county
"aforesaid, did combine and conspire for the purpose of laying
' out townships, by persons not appointed or acknowledged by
'the laws of this commonwealth, to the evil example of all
"others In like manner offending, contrary to the form of the
"act of assembly of this state in such case made and provided,
" and

-256

CAsnS RULED AND ADjUDGED IN THE

1802. "and against the peace and. dignity of the commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
L-"-." JOSEPH B. M'KEAN,
" Attorney-General.*
A certiorari issued at the instance of the defendants, to remove the indictment from the Quarter Sessions into the Circuit
Court: directed, however, to the Judges of the Court of Common
Pleas of the county; requiring the return of an indictment against
the four persons named in the second count, for both offences;
and actually returned by the associate Judges of the Common
Pleas.
On the trial of the indictment, in the Circuit Court, at a session held at Wilkesbarre, Luzerne county,'in Mkau 1802, the Jury
found a special verdict, in these terms:
"A nd now a Jury of the county being called, came, to wit,
cc Thomas Duane, Lazarus Denison, Peter Grubb, Yohn Cary,
" N/athan Beach, Thomas Wright, Ebenezer Slocum, athan MalBedford, Timothy Beebe, and Abiel Fel0acob
" ler, Abel Pierce,
C lows, who being duly impanelled, elected, swe'm, and affirm"-ee, to try these issues, on their oaths and affirmations, do find
"t -.at the defendants, Yohn Franklin and 7ohi 7enkins, did,
cc after the 11th of April 1795, at the county of Luzerne, con" s:ire and combine for the purpose of conveyhg, possessing,
"and settling, on lands within the said county, unier a pretended
"tide not derived from the authority of this con:monwealth, or
"of the late proprietaries of Pennsylvaniabefore the revolution,
" contrary to the form of an act of general assembly of this corn"monwealth, passed the 11th of April 1795, entitled an act to
"prevent intrusions on lands within the counties of Northampton,
"Northumberland, and Luzerne. And the Jurors aforesaid, on
"their oaths and affirmations aforesaid, do further find that the
"said John Franklin and John 7enhins, after the 11th of April
" 1795, at the county aforesaid, did conspire and combine for
"the purpose of laying out townships in the said county of Lu"zerne, by persons not appointed or acknowledged by the laws
" of this commonwealth, contrary to the form of the act of the
" general assembly aforesaid; but whether the said defendv1ts
4 are guilty in manner 'and form as they stand indicted, it-y
Ad
'"know not, and pray, therefore, the opinion of the Cou"
" if the Court here should be of opinion that the said act: of gene" ral assembly is not contrary to the constitution of the United
"States, or of the state of Pennsylvania, then they find the said
"defendants guilty in manner and form as they stand indicted,
"but if the Court should be of opinion that the said act of gene"neral assembly is contrary to to the constitution of the Vnitcd
"Staes. or of the state of Pennsylvania) then they find the said
" defendants

2-57

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

91 defendants not guilty in manner and torm as they stand indicted.
" And the said Elisha Satterlee anid Yoseph Biles they find not
" guiity in manner and form as they stand indicted."
Upon this finding of the jury, the defendant -filed the following
reasons in arrest of judgment:
1sL. The law on which this indictment is grounded, is unconstitutionl.
2d. The offences charged are not described with corivenient
and legal certainty.
3d. No act is stated, in either count, to have been committed
in pursuance of the combination and conspiracy.
4th. Twq different crimes are charged in the first count of the
indictment.
5th. It is not. stated in the second count, that the combination
and conspiracy was to lay out townships within Luzerne county,
or elsewhere, nor are the townships in any wise described.
6th The cause was never pending in the Circuit Court.
7th. The certiorari is to remove an indictment against four
parsons, for two dffences; and there is no such indictment. (1)
The act of assembly, to which ihe indictment and proceedings
refer, was passed on the lith of April 1795; 3 State Laws, 703.
Dall. edit. and the sections material, in the present case, were
the following:
Sec. 1. " Be it enacted by the senate and house of representa"c tives of the commonwealth of Penn.sylvania, in general assembly
c nzet, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same, That
" if any person shall, after the passing of this act, take possession
" of, enter, intrude, or settle on any lands, within the limits of
" the counties of Northampton, Northumberland,or Luzerne, by
"virtut or under colour of any conveyance of half share right,
"or any other pretended title, not derived from the authority of
" this commonwealth, or of the late proprietaries of Pennsylva"ni'a before the revolution, such person, upon being duly con.
"victed thereof, upon indictment in any Court of Oyer and Ter9 miner, or Court of General Quarter Sessions, to be Ifeld h
" the proper county, shall forfeit and pay the sum of two hundred
" dollars. one half to the use of the county, and the other half
46to the use of the informer; and shall, .also, be subject to such
I imprisonment, not exceeding twelve months, as the Court, be"fore whom Such conviction is had, may-in their discretion di" rect.
Sect. 2. "And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid,
"That every person who shall combine or conspire for the pur"pose of conveying, possessing, or settling on any lands within
(1) The 6th and 7th exceptions were filed, at a subsequent stage of the
cause, after the 1st exception had been over-ruled.

VOL. IV.

2L

" the

1802.

2 58

CASES

AULED AND

ADJUDGED IS

THE

1802. " the limits aioresaid, under any half share right or pretended
u.& . 4title as aforesaid, *orfor the purpose of laying out townships by
" persons not appointed or acknowledged by the laws of this
" commonwealth, and every person that shall be accessary
" thereto, before or.after the fact, shall, for every such offence,
"cforfeit and pay a sum not less than five hundred, nor more
"than one thousand dollars, one half to the use of the county,
"and the other half to the use of the informer; and shall, also,
" be subject to such imprisonment at hard labour, -not exceed" ing eighteen months, as the Court in their discretion may di"

rect."

It was agreed by the attorney-general, and the counsel for the
defendants, that the leading question, whether the act of assembly was constitutional, or not. should be argued in the Supreme
Court, before all the judges. Notice was regularly given to the
attorney of the defendants, that the case would be argued at the
present term; but they did not appear, nor apply to counsel to
appear for them, till the argument had actually commenced; and
then, upon being refused a term's delay, their counsel (Lewis)
for want of preparation, declined entering into the discussion.
The case was opened, and argued, by Duncan, for the common-wealth. He'traced the history of the Wyoming controversy, and
xeferred to the decree of. Trenton, (30th December 1782. 8 vol
Journ. -Cong. 83, 4.) as finally terminating the question of boun.dary and-jurisdiction, between the states of Pennsylvania and
-Connecticut,in favour of the former. From that period, every
settler under a Connecticut title, must be regarded as a wilful
trespasser. 2 Dall. Rep. 306. The ordinary process of the law,
however, was not sufficient to restrain, or repel, the intrusions
upon our territory; the legislative attention was imperiously
drawn to the subject; and an act was passed, on the l1th of
April.1795, to punish, as criminal offencet, the taking possession
of lands, or conspiring to convey, possess, or settle, them, in the
coundes of Northampton, Northumberland, or Luzerne, under
any title not derived from Pennsylvania. 3 vol. State Laws, Z03.
Dall. edit. Upon the- first and second sections of this act , the
present- indictment is founded; and a constitutional objection is
raised, to quash the indictment, and defeat the beneficial opera,
tion of the act. This constitutional objection has, on other occa-.
sions, been branched into various points.
1st. The act has been said to be a violation of the first section
of the ninth article of the state constitution, which declares,
" that all men are born equally free and independent, and l ave
4 certain inherent and indefeasible rights, among which are those
" of enjoying and defending life and liberty, of acquiring, pos" sessing,andprotectinfproperty and reputation, and of pursuing
"their own happiness.

SUPREME COURT Or PENNSYLVANIA.

0.59

We answer: Property is a creature of society; and the right, 1802.
in all its modifications, of acquisition, possession, and transfer, is
regulated by positive law. 2 B. Com. 2. 3 Dall. Rep. 391. 394.
From the very nature of the right of property, it is a perfect and
exclusive right. The moment, that it was established, that the
boundaries of Pennsylvania embraced the Wyoming district of
country, the right of property became absolute and exclusive in the
state; it would be absurd to suppose that Connecticut could, also,
possess an exclusive right of property in ihe same land; and,
yet, without such a supposition, by What principle of general law,
what positive statute, what express, or implied, contract, can her
grants confer a possessory, or usufructuary, interest in the land?
No man could obtain from Connecticut a legitimate right to acquire, possess, and pi otect, property, which belonged to Pennsylvania; and the constitution could only intend to recognise and
sanction a legitimate right, for those purposes.
2d. The act has been said to be a violation of the cgnstituiions
of the United States and of Pennsylvania,inasmuch as it creates
a new offence; punishes, ex post facto, the exercise of a claim,
legal in its origin; and impairs the obligation of contracts.
We answer: The intrusion, forcible or clandestine, upon the
territory of a sovereign power, is an offence malum in se. It is
an attack, not only upon the national property, but upon the national sovereignty. If done by individual citizens of another
state, it is a high misdemeanor; and if done with the sanction of
their government, it would be a just cause of war. But it is
adding insult tcr outrage, &hen the citizens of the state itself,
deny her right and authority, and parcel out her lands, under
the authority of another government. The offence is flagrant,
against:every principle of political economy; and always has
been held indictable. 2 Hawk. P. C. 210. 4 Bl.Com. 128. 32 H.
8. c. 9. Long, however, before the Connecticut claim began to
operate, Pennsylvania (in 1729-30) had introduced a similar law,
to prevent purchases of land from the Indians; to annul all contracts for that purpose; and to extend the English statutes of
forcible entries and detainers, to the case of entry upon lands,
not located, or surveyed, by Some warrant, or order, from the
proprietary. 1 State Laws, 248. Dalh edit. And even in the year1700, (which law was inforced by additional sanctions in 1769,
Ibid. 503.) it had been declared, "that if any person presume to
" buy any land of the natives, within the limits of this province
"andf territories, without leave from the proprietary thereof,
every such bargain, or purchase, shall be void, and of no ef"fect." Ibid. 5. Say, then, that the Connecticuttitle, originated in
jruly 1754 (as it is alleged) in a purchase from the Indians: by
a positive subsisting law, the purchase was void; it could afford
no lawful .ground for subsequent contracts; and, of course, no
cont,'act

S60
1802.
L.....

CASrS RULED AND ADJUDGED IN TH2"

contract could, in this point of view, be impaired bv the actf
against intrusions. Say, that the con-ract, is only to be regarded
as b~tween Connecticut and her grantees: the contract is neither
annulled, nor ii~paired, if the subject ,ofit belonged to Connecti.
cut; 'but surely a contract with Connecticut could give no tight
to enter upon lands that bdlonged to Penwiylvania. The obligation of the contract lies exclusively upon Connecticut; and Pennsylvania does riot, in any degree, impair it,-whcn 'she merely
says, that it shall not be forcibly transferred to her. If, therefore, Pennylvania had a right to legi;ate for the protection of
her property, for the vindication of her sovereignty, is there in
the manner of legislating, any violation ot. a constitutional, or
established, principle of jurisprudence? No: the -offence is defincd, and the punishment pres. ribed, not ex po.,t facto, in reference. to past intrusions and conspiracies; but expressly contemplating those which shall occur, after the enacting of the law.
3d. The act has been said to be a violation of the state constitutioi (art.9. s.1.) by destroying -inequality of"rights; inasmuch as its provisions o not apply to the whole state, but to a
particular district, composed of three counties.
Wc answer. The grievance is local, and the remedy ought,
therefore, to be-locally applied. The usurpation and intrusion
prevailed only in the counties of Northampton, Northumberland,
and Luzerne; and the proceeding against the intruders by eviction and restitution, is not a novelty in our law. In criminal
cases, the award of restitution always follows a conviction; and
in cases of'forcible entry and detainer (when, too, the public dignity isnot involved) restitution is the appropriate execution of
the judgment, in favour of a prosecutor.
4th. The act has been said to be a violation of the constitution, because it destroys, or suspends, the right of entry.
We answer. It cannot be seriously supported, as a legal proposition, that it is unconstitutional to deny a right of entry on
lands in one state, under an authority derived from the government of another state. Even as to .estates derived from herself,
or as to estates belonging to her citizens, the state may, and
positively do-cs, by an act of limitation, destroy the right of entry. 2 State Laws, 281, 2. Dall. edit But the act of assembly, 1i
discussion,' if fairly construed, does not affect a right of entry,
to prevent the bar of the act of limitation, or to seal a lease, for
the purposes of an ejectment: but only an entry for the purpose
of intruding and settling upon the lands, in pursuance of the spurious title of Connecticut.
5th. The act has been said to be a violation of the state con
sti.uton. Iecause it exercises a power, in its nature judicial, a..'
riot legislative.

SUPPEME COURT 0-1 PENNSYLVANIA

26

We answer. The act neither undertakes to investigate facts, 1802.
nor to pronounce a judgment. It prohibits the doing ot certain
acts; and if the acts are done, it leaves to the Courts of justice,
the exclusive province of trying and deciding upon the case.
6th. The act is said to be a vioiation of the second section of
the third article of the constitution of the United State.) so far as
it provides, that the judicial power shall extend to controversies
between citizens of the same state claiming lands under grants
of different states.
We answer. The Federal Courts have no criminal jurisdiction,
except in the cases expressly authorised by the constitution and
laws of the United States; And the present case, considered- as a
criminal one, is clearly not included in the delegated authority of
the constitution or laws. Considered as a civil case, it is necessary, for the claim of federal cognizance, to shoW that Connecticut had actually issued grants, for the lands granted by Pennsylvania, whih has never yet been pretended. For, the 9th article
of the con 'ederation had taken cognizance of "all controversies,
concerning the private right of soil, claimed under different
"grants of twos, or more states, whose jurisdiction, as they Inay
" respect such lands and the states, which passed such grants,
are adjusted, the said grants, or either ot them, being at the same
" time claimed to have originated antecedent to such settlement
of jurisdiction." And the existing federai constitution, also,
calls, expressly, for a claim of lands, under -granr.ts of diffe~rnt
states, before the case of federal cognizance can arise. That the
word grant is thus used in its legal, technical, sense; 2 B. Cum.
317. aid that no such grant wis ever made by Connecticut
prior to the decree of Trenton, will satisfactorily appear irom
th- journals of congress: 8 vol. 74. 9 v6l. 156. 10 vol. 294. to
299. After all, the constitution of the United States only se'cures
the right of action, which may subsist without the right of entry,
and is not destroyed, or impaired, by the act of assembly; an
act 9 f public police, for the purposes of internal, self government.
Dallas, in concluding for the commonwealth, divided the consideration of the general question (whether the act was constitutional.) into an inquiry, 1st. Whether the .subject of the law,
was constitutionally proper? And, 2d. Whether there was any
d. parture from constitutional principles, in the rcgulation., for
carrying the law into effect?
1st. It is the duty of every government to protect the rights
of property, and to pres, rye the public peace. An evil subversive
of those rights, fatal to th -t peace, existed in Pennsylvaniaat the
period of passing the act. The state laws, then in forme, were incompetent to a cure of the evil. TFhe lederal government could
not interpose, either with its legislative, or judicial, power. unless
Aad

2o62
'

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1802. unless the state could. administer to her own relief, the case was
desperate and dreadful.
What was the evil that existed?- By the decree of Trenton, it
was settled, that Pennsylvania 'had the exclusive right of sove.
reignty, soil, and pre-emption, as to the lands in question; by a
retrospective recognition of the boundaries, described in the ch-arter from Charles the second to William Penn. The laws of Penn.
sylvania must, therefore, be applied to every transaction respecting those lands; and in the years 1700 and 1729, it bad been
made unlawful to purchase any part of them from the Indians.
I State Laws, 5. 248. Yet, in july 1754, the Susquehanna and.
Delaware companies, in defiance of the laws, made a purchase
from the Indians; and without a grant from Connecticut, or a
grant from Pennsylvania, but merely under colour of a grant
from the Indians (which the acts of assembly declared to be null
and void) they, and persons succeeding to their pretensions, have
continued, from that time to the present, to annoy the peace, and
to insult the government of Penns-4lvania, by the most flagrant
acts of outrage, usurpation, and contumacy; insomuch that even
an attempt was made to erect an independent state within her
territory. 2 vol. State laws, 82. Reviewing, however, the transactions only subsequent to the final decree of Trenton (30th Decem.
ber.1782) we find, that the district of country, called the Seventeet
Townships, was all that the Connecticutclaimants then occupied.
But, still, as Pennsylvania had previously issued grants for the
same land, she was bound to sustain the rights of her grantees.
Every pacific and conciliatory irstrument was employed, for that
purpose, before the state resorted to force, or to denunciation.
Commissioners were appointed to negotiate a compromise between the adverse claimants; and an act was passed -on the 13th
of Mkarch .1783, to suspend all process against the Wyoming settlers during the negotiation: 2 vol. State Laws, 146. Hall & Sel
krs's edit. but the commissionerg were spurned, baffled, and defeated; and the suspending law was repealed; on the'9th of
September 1783, because it was evident, that the clemency and
moderation of the legislature " had been mistaken and treated
" with neglect." Ibid. 197. The spirit of conciliation was, nevertheless, indulged much longer. An act was passed on the 15th
of September 1784, "1for the more .speedy restoring the posses"sion of certain messuages, lands, and tenements, in Northtim4"berlandcounty, to the persons who lately held the same," and
'had been violently evicted. Ibid. 391. An act of oblivion and
pardon was, also, passed, on the 24th of December 1785, as to
all crimcs and offences committed on or before the 1st of .Aovember preceding, under colour of the Wyoming controversy;
but the supreme executive council was, at the same time, authorised, to employ a -ompetent body of the militia, in support
of the magistrates. To gratity thc inhabitants, a part of Nortm umberland

SUPREMIE COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

2-63

umiberland was erected into a new county, and called Luzerne, 1802.
on the 25th of September 1786. 2 vol. 465. 486. Dall. edit. But
the great effort for the restoration of harmony and order, was
the act, usually styled " the confirming law," passed on the 28th
of Afarch 1787. This act recites, that "the interfering claims
"have occasioned much contention, expense, and bloodshed; 4nd
"the assembly being desirous of putting an end to those evils,
"by confirming such of the Connecticut claims, as were acquired
"by actual settlers prior to the termination of the dispute [by the
"decree of Trenton] agreeably to the petition of a number of
"the said settlers, and by granting a just compensation to the
"Pennsylvania claimants." Commissioners were again appointed, for carrying the confirming law into effect; but "when they
" met, in pursuance of the law, :hey were interrupted in their
"proceedings by the combinations, threatenings, and outrageous
"violence, of certain lawless people in the county of Luzerne,
" and obliged to fly for the preservation of their lives;" aided
by persons who were severely wounded on the occasion. The
confirming law was thereupon suspended (29th March 1788)
3 vol. 450. 530. Hall & Sellers's edit. and, afterwards, on the
1st of April 1790, it was condemned and repealed, as unjust and
unconstitutional. 2 vol. 786. Dall. edit. During this period of
legislative patience and conciliation, it is matter of public notoriety, that every pacific overture was contemned; every coercive
measure was resisted, or evaded; the powers of government
were taken into the hands of voluntary associations of individuals; the sheriffs, and other public officers, were menaced and defied; the commissioners of the government were insulted, assaulted, and imprisoned; the Pennsylvania claimants were waylaid and murdered; the number of intruders was daily augmented; and the extent of their encroachments was indefinitely enlarged.
For the magnitude of this evil, did the laws in force, furnish
an adtquate remedy? The Connecticut claim was now spread
over the whole Soufltr', extending beyond the original seventeen townsbirs, throughout the north-western boundary of the
state. Where the land was actually occupied by a Connecticut
claimant,/no Pennsylvania patentee could safely enter; and the
danger increased, it the po.sessron was vacant. The process 3f
ejectment, or forcible entry and detainer, of any oth' r civil process, was not effectual to give to the right of property, protection and enjoyment; and even the force of thelmilitia had ftfiled.
The evil-was an intrusion upon lands (not to try a title, not to
submit to ti-e dispensations of the judicial power, but) to seize.
possess, and hold, by force, violence and terror. There .:is no
la%-, in existence, that could albrd a remedy; and, yet, there i.
no man, wvho will conten., that a reney ought not .,b. provid,.,1.

264

CASES 11ULED AND ADJUDGED IN T7E

1802.
Could the federal government afford an adequate remedyt
k
The 'ase was not within their legislative, or executive, owers,
either expressly, or as an incident to an express pow er. It is a
case of dome.,tic violence; as to which the federal govrrnment
can only interfere, " on application of the state legislature, or of
.4 the executive, when the legislature cannot be convened." Const.
U. S.- art. 4. a. 4. Nor could the judicial power of the United
States afford relief. It provides, indeed, for a suit between citizens, claiming grants under different states; but it no where pro.
vides, for prosecutions by a state, against its own citizens, committing offences against her municipal laws. Ibid. art. 3. s. 2.
Amendment.'. Acts Congre.,s, 3 vol. 131. 1 vol. 53. s. 9. Ibid.55.
s. 11. Ibid. 57. s. 12. Ibid. 58. s.13. In the Commonwealth v.
Cobbett. 3 Dall.Rep. 467. the principle was discussed and s-'ttled;
and in RityZ v. Cobbett, the jurisdiction of the lederal Courts. was
adjudged to apply only to cases of contract; and not to a case of
damages, for a libel.
The competency of the state government to redress the evil.
is a necessary inference from the incompetency of anN other
power, known to our constitutions and laws, unless it is expr. ssly
prohibited. Now, it is not expressly prohibited; and it cannot, by
any act of perversion, be assimilated to an attainder law; to an ex
p9stfacto law; or to a law impairing the obligation oi contracts.
Nor is it a legislative encroachment upon the judicial departm(.nt.
It decides no question of personal guilt; it inflicts no pun 'shm-nt;
it merely declares in this, as in every instance of tht penai code.
what shall constitute an offence, and how the offender shall be
punished.
2d. Having thus vindicated the subject of the law, from the
imputation of being unconstitutional; it is ntEt to be examined,
whether there is any dep.irture, from constitutional principles, in
the regulations for carrying it into effect?
,In the construction of a remedial statute, the previous mischief is to be considered. Hcre, the act of assembly describes
the offence, in the very terms cif the mischief: 1st. "Taking
" possession of, entering, intruding, or sctling on linds, &c. hy
" virtue, or under colour of any conveyance of half share right,
1 or other pretended title, not derived from the authority oi this
1 commonwealth, &-c." And, 2d. 4"Conspiring for the purpose
oft conveying, possessing, or settling on an- lands wihin the
" limits aforesaid, under an% half share right or pretended title
as aforesaid; or lor the purpose of laying out townships by
" persons not entitled or acknowledgt d, by the laws of thib corn" monwealth." If the descripion of tht" oti' nce contaiiJs nothing
unconstitutional, does the nature of the punishment? No: it is
fine and imprisonment,; and the oflender is to be rtmovett Irii
the premises, f whit h hL was tortioush, and unlan .u
pos-,cssed, after full notice ol the law, by proclamation, anu pubishing
il,

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

in Court. 3 vol. State Lazvs, 703. s. 1, 2, 3. 6. This proceeding
by indictment, and the expulsion upon conviction, are said, however, to destroy the right of entry, upon which alone the civil
remedy of ejectment can be pursued. But the law contemplates
no such entry, in the description of the offence; for, let it be repeated, it is a tortious entry, to hold by force; and not a lawful
entry to try a right, that the legislature condemns and punishes.
After advisement and deliberation, the Judges delivered their
opinions, seriatinz.
SHIPPEN, Chief yustice, YrATES and SMITH, Justices, 'oncurred in.declaring, that the act of assembly; on which the irdictment is founded, was constitutional, in all ;t. relations.
BRACKENRIDGE, 7ustice. The second count in the indictment, is founded upon the second section of the act of assembly;
and the special verdict finds expressly, that the deferidants did.
conspire for the purpose mentioned in that section. The purpose
was, " to lay out townships in the county'of Luzerne, by persons
" not appointed, or acknowledged, by the laws of this commonc wealth." Now, the term township, indicates a local jurisdiction, foi objects of local police, with powers and officers to effectuate the jurisdiction; and a conspiracy by individuals to erect
such townships, is an encroachment upon the rights and authority of the state. It is an offence indic 'e at common law; and;
the legislature, with a view more effectually to prevent its commission, had an unquestionable power to increase the punishment.
As to the first section of the act of assembly, I am not prethat it is unconstitutional; and, consequentto pronounce,
pared
ly,
I could
not, even on that ground, decide, at.present,
to arrest
the judgment. But it is enough to observe, that on the finding
of the jury, I shall be ready to give judgment, for the commonwealth; on the second count of the indictment, when the subject
is brought before us in the Circuit Court. (1)
(1) The cause was argued, upon the other obJections, in arrest of judgrnent
before the Supremne Court, in Decomber Terna 1804. See post.

VOL. IV.

2M

265
1802.

