250
s

CASES RULED AND ADJTYDGED IN TUt

1802. doubted on this point, we should have been inclined to afford an
opportunity, for the revision of our opinion on the principal
question; however satisfied we are, in our 'own minds, that it is
correct in principle and law. (1)

C

'Cochran et al. verus Cummings.

ASE, for goods sold and delivered. There was a special defenco, that the defendant had sold, and conveyed to the
plaintiffs, a quantity of land in the county of -Aorthumberland,in
sa:isfhction of their demand; and the deed of conveyance, dated
in Yuzme 1799, was produced. But the plaintiffs insisted, 1st. That
they took the conveyance only as a collateral security: and, 2dly.
That they were imposed upon by the defendant, as to the quality of the land.
On the first point, the evidence was contradictory; and the
left it, implicitly, to be Aecided by the jury.

COURT

On the second point, it was proved, that the defendant had
represented the land as very valuable; saying, that it was such
as would sell, in two or three years, for a price, -from two to six
dollars an acre: but, in fact, the land was a part of a mountain,
commonly called "11ra ch ' s Second Mountaiz;" so rude, that it
could not be cultivated; and 'so steep, that it was inaccessible,
even to take off the wood, without incalculable expense and labour. In the charge of the COURT, on this'point, it was said,
By SHIPPEN, Chief 'rustice: Wherever there is a gross misrepresentation of facts, relating to the subjeci of a contract, the
contract is fraudulent and void. If, therefore, the jury shall be
of opinion, that sucha misrepresentation was made, in the present
instance; they should consider the conveyance as no payment,
although the plaintiffs agreed, under the deception, to accept it
in satisf-ction; and the verdict must be for damages to the whole
amount of the demand.
Verdict, accordingly, for the plaintiffs' whole demand.
Ingersoll, and Heady, for the plaintiffs.
J1. Levy, and Porter, for the defendant.
(1) In the case of Kingston v. Girard, the Court declared, that, after long
and mature consideration, they Acre pei rectly satisfied with their decision in
.-,'res et al. v. The I:;uuranre rompanr of Xrirth Anerica. The case is still dcpenlding in the Hzgh Court of Errofts and Appeals, upon .the bill of exceptions.
It has been once argulcd thert; but a second argument has become neces.
-ary, in consequlwnce of se:erd changea on the bench.

Fitzgerald

