CIRCUIT COURT,
PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

October Term 1804,
Present WASH IiNTON, Associate judge of the Supreme Court.
PETERS,

District Judge.

Hurst's Case.
N the affidavit of Timothy Hurst, it appeared, that he had
come from his residence at Nerw-York, to attend the trial
(51 Hurst v. Htrst (in which he was a party) at the present term;
that after his .arrival he had been subpcnaed as a witness, in the
case of T. -urst v. Rodney, which was, also, upon the trial list;
that yesterday (the 13th of November) while he was-at his lodgings, in Hardy's tavern, he had been arrested by the sheriff upon
a ca. sa. issuing from the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania; and
that he had come to Philadelphia,and was remaining here, at the
time of the arrest, only upon the business of his suit, and in
obedience to the subpcena.
0

Ingersoll, upon these facts, moved, that Turst should be dis.
charged from the custody of the sheriff, And he argued, in support of the motion, 1st. That the application was properly addressed to this Court, and not to the Supreme Court. 2d. That a discharge from the ca. sa. by order of the court, without the consent,
or concurrence, of the plaintiff, would not operate as a satisfaction
of the debt; and another execution might afterwards be takenout. 3d. That the discharge by a competent Court, would excuse and protect the sheriff, in an action for an escape. Barnes 2.
Ld. Rallm. 1524. Bac. Abr. 6%1.. i T. Rep. 686. 5 Bac. Abr.
617.

388
1804.

CASES RLULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE.

617. 673. 1 H. BI. 636. Tidd Pr. 61, 2. 2 Stra- 990. 1 Dali
356. (1) 3 Dall. 478. Dy. 60. a.

~ ReP.

. Rawle, in opposition to the discharge, insisted, that, under the
circumstances of this case, Hurst was neither privileged as a witness, nor as a party. 1st. Not as a witness. The arrest was made
at the lodgings of the defendant: but although a witness is privileged, while he is going from home, while he is actually attending
the Court, and while he is returning to his home; he is not privileged while he is at home. 2d. Not as a party. If the privilege of
a p:arty is not limited to the same times and places, as"the privilege of a witness, its extent is indefinite, and its operation
unequal. Is a suitor in this Court, residing in Georgia,protected
from arrett, as soon as he receives the notice of trial, in his own
state, and in every state, through which he passes, on hisjourney
to Philadelphia? Again: Is every resident citizen of Philadelphia,
who has a suit depending, privileged during the trial term, not
only while actually attending the Court, but while at home, with
"iis family? And if not, why should a non-resident suitor be protected at his lodgings, which are his home? There is, indeed, a
distinction between the cases, favourable to the witness; for, a
witness is under an absolute obligation to attend the Court; but
a part), may prosecute his suit by an attorney, without personal
attendance. Besides, the sheriff will be bound to show a regular
discharge, in an action for an escape; and if the Supreme Court
should adhere to the rule in Sterret's case, the order of this
Court will not be a justificationw 1 Brownl. 15. Barn. 200. 5 T.
Rep. 686. 2 ha. Ca. 69. T. Rayni. 100. 2 Ld. Rayrm.1524. 6 Com.
Dig. 89. 88. Woods tst. 478. 2 Bro. Abr. 15?. Tit. Priv.pl. 37.
WASHINGTON, Yustice. I will not examine the powers of the
Supreme Court of the state, upon the present occasion. It is
ehough to assertain, that the power of this Court is competent to
the object proposed. If, indeed, any injury would be done either
to the plaintiff in the suit, or to the sheriff (both of whom have
acted innocently, and without knowledge of the facts, on which
"theclaim of privilege arises) by our interposition, we might be
induced to pause upon the subject. But, as to the plaintiff, it is
clear,'that he may renew his execution, whenever the privilege
ceases: And, as to the sheriff, the order of a Court of competent jurisdiction, touching the subject matter, must be a conclusive justification in everyother Court, acting upori sound principles
of law and justice.
To decide the principal question, therefore, I[ find it necessary
to go no further; than to state, that I think the witness was, in

(1) It was admitted by the counsel, on both sides, that ihe authority of Ster
ret's case. had been often doubted, both on the bench, and at the bar, though
never expressly over-ruled.

CIRCUIT COURT, PEN*NSYLVANIA

DISTRICT.

this case, privileged, while he was at his lodgings. The subpena
was in force; and the arrest of the witness at that place, has all
the effects which could be produced by an arrest in the streets,
while coming to, or going from, the Court.
PETERS, 7ustice. I concur in the sentiments, that have been expressed by the presiding judge; and add, as my separate opinion,
that the party is intitled to be discharged, upon both the grounds
of privilege.
A special order of discharge was, accordingly, made, and
filed; at the instance of Dallas, who appeared for the sheriff.

Walker et a. versus Smith.
ASE. On the trial of this cause, the following facts appeared: The plaintiffs were merchants of London; and in .Afarcjs
1796, shipped and consigned to the defendant certain goods, invoiced at 270. 14,9. 8d.sterling, accompanied with a letter, stating that "these goods were shipped by order of Mr. Y. B. and
" for his account; andhe was to remit us -the amount on his ar" rival at .Philadelphia:but since they were shipped, some cire cumst*ances have occurred, which have created some doubts,
"in our minds, respecting his solidity; and by the advice of our
" friends, we have adopted this method. to secure ourselves
" through your friendly assistance, which we request on this oc" casion. As w. do not want to depriye B. of the benefits to be
" derived from the sale of these goods, we wish you to hold them
" at his disposal, but not to deliver them to him, without being
" paid for the amount, or having such security given you there" for, as is satisfactor) to yourself. Should he not be able to ef" fect either of these,'in i reasonable time, we would wish you
" to dispose of them for our account, and remit us the amount
" in good bills." The defendant duly received the goods, but de-.
livered them over to B. without receiving payment, or exacting. security; and shortly afterwards B. failed. The defendant,
however, representing other creditors of B., as well as the plaintiffs, made a composition, by which he received for the proportion of the plaintiffs 1511 16s. sterling, and remitted that sum
to them, without charging commissions, in a letter dated the 11th
of Deccmlber 1800. The plaintiffs refused to ratify the composition, and brought the present suit to rec6ver the invoice value of
the goods, with interest according to the usage of trade.
(

On the trial, Ingersollassumed three grounds of defence: 1st.
That there was no cause of action; as the defendant had accepted the consignment-, on principles of mere curtesv, withot interest directly, or indirectly; and had exercised a f ir and imparfil

89
1804.

