370

CASES

RULED

AND ADJUDGED IN TIaE

1803. 2d. It is not founded on settlement, but improve,.-ent, and if it
.ihad

recited the consideration to be actual settlement, the recital

would have been false in fact, and could have produced no legal
valid consequence.
As to the caveat; the effect of it was to close the doors of the
land office against the further progress of the plaintiff in perfecting his title. The dismission of it again opened the door, but
still, the question as to title is open for examination in ejectment,
if brought within six months, and the patcnt will issue to the
successful party.
The plaintifl, therefore, having failed to show a title sufficient
to enable him to recover in this action, it is unnecessary to say
any thing about the defendant's title; and your verdict ought to
be for the defendant.
The jury found for the defendant.

Hurnphries versus Blight's Assignees.

T

HIS was an amicable action, to obtain a decision upon these
general facts- Alurgatroyd, being possessed of two notes,
drawn by Peter Blight, payable without defaleation, and being
indebted to .lumphries, offered to give the notes in part payment,
and cash for the rest, of the debt. The notes had been due for
some time; and a commission of bankruptcy had previously issued against Blight; but Blight, upon an application from 1-umphries, cadvised him to accept the proposition, without any intimation of a detence, or set-off. The notes were, accordingly, indorsed by lIurgatroydto Humphries; but when presented by the
indorsee to be proved, under the commission, the assignees of
Blight claimed a right to set-off a debt, due from Zflirgatroyd to
Blight; and for the trial of this claim, the present action was instituted. Two questions, however, were discussed on the trial:
1st. Whether the holder of a promissory note, purchased after a
commission of bankruptcy had issued against the drawer, could
prove the debt, under the commission? 2d. Whether the note,
being purchased after it was due, had not lost its general negotiable character; and, consequently, remained -subject to any setoff, that would apply between the drawer and payee?
Hai-e and Dallas argued for the plaintiff, and cited 5 vol. Acts
Cong. p, 68. x. 34. 5 Geo. 2. c. 30. s. 7. s. 28. 5 vol. Acts Cong.
p. 45.74-. . 1. 8.42. 1 Atk. 73. 2 Wils. 135. Cull. 99. Evans, 220.
C. J. .L. '9. I Atk. 119. 4 vol. Penn. Lawrs, 102, 3. Dall.edit.
3 7. Rep. 80. 7 T. Rep. 429. 2 Dall. Rep. 396. 2 Fonbl. 150.
A4.'str. 4-27,
Pa7vle

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

37]

Rawle argued for the defendants, and cited 4 T. Rep. 714. 1803.
5 T. Rep. 57. 2 Stra. 1234. 3 T. Rep. 80. Co. 96. 5 vol. Acts %-'
Long. p. 74. s. 42.
Bv the COURT: 1st. We have no doubt upon the right of the

assignee of the note in this .ase, to prove the debt under the
commission, and to receive a dividend. The certificate of the
bankrupt, would be a bar to a recovery, in an action by the present holder of the note against him; and wherever a certificate
will be a bar, the right to prove the debt, under the commission,
must be unquestionable.
2d. In thecase of negotiable paper, or in the case of an assign.
able bond, we have always thought, that the assignee takes it
discharged of all the equity (as between the original parties) of
which he had no notice. But whenever the assignee has notice'of
such equity, either positively, or constructively, he takes the assignment at his peril. The assignment, in this case, was taken
after the commission of bankruptcy had issued; and the commission was legal notice, that wherever mutual debts subsisted,
between the bankrupt and his creditors, the right of set-off attached. The set-off claimed by the assignees must, therefore, be
allowed: and this opinion is given, without admitting any distinction, whether the notes were due, or not, before the assignment; but merely upon the ground, that the assignment was subsequent to the commission.

