,116

CAsEs RULED AND ADJUDGE

IN THE'

1792. been satisfied in equfity, beyond her personal estate, and the rents
and issues of her real estate; but a general judgment in Penn.
sylvania, would bind the real estate absolutely; so that it might
be taken in execution and sold. If, indeed, this were a Court of
equity, the defendant might make many matters appear to rebut
the plaintiff's equity, which it is too late to urge on a special
verdict. And this Court, as a Court of common law, will never
co4sider bonds as appointments, when the party could not legally
enter into a bond. 2 P. Wms. Norton v. Turrf. I Br. Ch. 16.
Gur. adv. vult. (1).

L-y--'

The Commonwealth versis Dillon. (2)
HE prisoner (a boy about 12 years old) was indicted for
arson,-in burning several stables, containing hay, &c. He
was examined before the mayor of the city of Philadelphia, on
the 20th of December 1791, and then confessed the, commission
of the offences, with which he was charged. But, as his own
confession was the principal 'evidence (indeed there was no other
positive evidence) against him, his counsel insisted, that it was,
obtained under such duress, accompanied with threats and piomises, as destroyed its legal credit and validity. The evidence
on that point was, substantially, as follows:
On the 18th of Decenber, the prisoner was committed to the
jair of Philadelphia,and the next day was taken before the mayor;
but, at that time, he made no confession. On the 18th and 19th
of December he was visited and intenogated, by several respectable citizens, who represented to him the enormity of the crime;
urged a free, open, *andcandid, confession-, which would so excite public compassion as, probably, to be the means of obtaining a pard on; while a contrary course of conduct would leave
him, in case of a convi.tion, without hope: and they added, that
they would themselves stand his friends, if he would confess.
The inspe tcrs of the prison endeavoured, likewise, to obtain from
him a discovery of his oflcnces, and of his accomplices. They
carried him into the dungeon; they displayed it in all its gloom
and horror; they said that he would be confined in it, dark, cQld,
and hungry, unless-he nade a full disclosure; but if he did make
a disclosure, he should be well accommodated with room, fire,
and victuals,, and might expect pity and favour. The prisoner
continued to deny -his guilt for sometime; and when his master
visited him, he complained of the want of clothes, fire, and iourT

(1) The Reporter has not been able to trace the decision of this cause.
(2) The trial was held at a Court of Oyer and T'rniner, in Philadelphia,on
the 31st of Yaanxary 1792 before M'KEAz;, Chitef Yustice, and SiIIPPEZ and

ishment..

SIUPLREE COVPRT OF PENNSYLVANIA1

117

ishment. At length, however, on the 19th of December, he made 1792.
successive acknowledgments of the facts contained in his confession, which was formally, and to all appearance, voluntarily, made
before the mayor, on the succeeding morning; and which was
repeated, with additional circumstances, at subsequent periods.
In the prisoner's defence, the following authorities were cited,
principally to guard the jury against the danger of mere pre.
sumptive evidence, and an extorted confession of guilt, through
force, hope, or fear, particularly, in the case of an infant. 4 B?.
Com. 357. Fost. 243. 2 Te. per Pais. 603. 2 H. H. P. C.
225. 4BI. Com. 326. Leach C. L. 248. 319. 3 Cow, Dig. 511.
Staundf. 142. 2.1E. H. P. C. 284, 5. 3 .Bac. Abr. 131. 3 Inst.
232. 2 Hawk. 604. 8 Mod. Fost. 11.244.
For the commonwealth. The confession was delivered before
the mayor,. and afterwards repeated and enlarged, without the
least appearance of constraint, or terror. No public officer has
'improperly attempted to excite fear, or hope, as the medium of
extortihg a discovery; and all that was said, or done, in that
respect, proceeded from the avowed friends of the prisoner, and
the known pronioters of humanity. Besides the confession itself
bears intrinsic marks of its sincerity and truth; and neither the
'wildness of the boy's motive, for committing the crimes, nor his
youth,can afford a satisfactory answer to the charge. Post.70. And,
after all, to destroy the legal effect of the confession, as evidence,
it must be proved, 1st, that previous improper means were.employed; and 2d, that the confession was the immediate'consequence of those improper means.
By the COUJRT: The fact of the arson is established; and it
only remains to decide, whether it was committed by the pris6nee? The proof against him, depends upon his own confession,
slightly corroborated .by the testimony of two witnesses. The
confession was freely and voluntarily made, was finirly and openly
received, before the mayor; and, therefore, it was regularly
read in evidence. But still, it has been.urged, that it was thus
apparently well made befbre the mayor, in consequence of improper measures previously pursued with the boy. The interference of the inspectors of the prison was certainly irregular;
though the public anxiety, in -Which they participated, upon this
extraordinary, occasion, may be admitted as an excuse. The
manner in which he was urged, though nct threatened, by
the citizens who visited him, may, likewise, be objectionable.
But is it reasonable to infer, that all the prisoner's confessions
were falsely made under the influence of those occurrences?
Consider the nature of the offence. It cannot be openly perpetrated; for, it would be instantly preyented; and if it is secretly
perpetrated, how, generally speaking, can the offender be detected,

CAsEs RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C.

118

1792. ed, but by his own declarations? If such declarations are volun~ tarily made, all the world will agree, that they furnish the strongest
evidence, of imputed guilt. The hop., of mercy actuates almost
every criminal, who confesses his crime; and merel, that he
cherishes the hope, is no reason, in morality. nor in law, to disbelieve him. The true point for consideration, therefore, is, whether
the prisoner has falsely declared himself guilty of a capital offence?
If there is ground even to uspect, that he has done so, God forbid, that his life should be the sacrifice! While, therefore, on the
one hand, it is remarked, that all the stables set on fire, were
in the neighbourhood of his master's house; thatlhe has, in
part, communicated the fafts to another boy; that his conduct
had excited the attention and suspicion of a girl, who knew him;
and that he expressed no wish to retract the statement, which he
has given: the jury will, on the other hand, remember, -that if
they entertain a doubt upon the subject, it is their duty to pronounce an acquittal. Though it is their province to administer
justice, and not to bestow mercy; and though it is better not to
err at all; yet, in a doubtful case, an error on the side of merc) is
safer, is more venial, than error on the side of rigid justice.
Verdict, Not Guilty.(1)
For the Common-wealth, Ingersoll, attorney-general.
For the Prisoner,Sergeant and Todd.
(1) The hmnanitv of thejury being gratified by an acquital of the prisoner,
from the capital charge, he was indicted and corvicted, on the -arne facts, for
a misdemcanor. By the reform of our penal code, Arson is no longer a capital
crime.

