CAsEs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN TiE

084
1803.

*~

-But BRACKENRIDGr, )-.st:ce, said, that he thought there was
suffic nt evidence a' the rzal, to induce the juryv to find an abandoitment; snd, on that ground alone, he concurred, in refi-;ng
a new trial. For, the general ground, on which the opinio'i of
the rest of.the Court was founded, did not appear to him so conclus:ve, aid so sat;_f'Cctory, as it did to them.
I
-Morbn
f
for a ne* trial refused: and judguent ndered on thc
verdict for the plaintiffs.

Williams et al. Executors .ofFisher, versus Pascha.et al.

D

EBT on an arbitration bond. Upon oyer of the bond and
condition, it appeared, that the defendants, as heirs of Yonathan Paschall,had entered into a bond, dated the 14th of September
1796, in the penal sum of 500!., conditioned for the performance
of an award, by arbitrators, mutually named by them and the
plaintiffs, to be made -of and concerning all mattrrs in controversy between them respecting a certain bond givn by the said
Sonathan Payvchall to the said janm.s Fisher (the testator) and
" r.:specting afll accounts, which they-the said heirs of jonathan
"Peachall may exhibit as payments in discharge of the said bond,
" and of and concerning all and all-manner of actions, &c. &8c.
re"spectitg the said bond and accounts, &c." The award, which
was-set forth on the record, after reciting the bond and submission,
concludes that "the arbitrators are of opinion, that the defendants
are justly indebted to the plaintiffs in the suhi of 3101 11s..
41d."
The ieftndants pleaded specially, "that the plaintiffs ought not
", to have and maintain their action aforesaid. against them, be4,cause they say, that the said arbitrators, in making the said
1 award, at the time and place aforesaid, from a mere inadver-t:ncy, error, mistake, and misapprehension, of the law and
right and justice of the case, calculated, allowed, and added,
" the full interest of six per cent. per anngmn,
on the whole
amount of the principal sum mentioned in the bond, submitted
to their arbitrament, for a. long time, that is to say, fbr twenty'bit
years and upwards; although, within the same time, many
" payments and advancts had been made by these defendhnts,
",
and on their account, to the said 7ames Fisher in his lifetime,
" and, after his decease, to the said plaintiffs, on account of the
" said bond, to the full amount of the principal and interest due
ton the said bond; 'but on which payments and advances, from
c a ncre mistake, error, and misapprehension of the law and
right mad justice of thd case, no interest was calculated, or al" lowed, by the said arbitrators, in making and forming their
"said aw:rd: nor were the said payments and advances deduct•d. as by law and right they ought to have-been, from the monies
"

due

SU
"
"

"

REMIE COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

n8s

due on the said bond, at the resptctive tim. s, when such pay- 18 3.
ments and advances were made, or at any time, or times, before publishing the said award. And this the said defendants
are ready to verify, &-c."

To this plea, the plaintiffs demurred; and it was agreed, that
the Court should decide, 1st. Whether the award N as, in itself,
good. 2d. Whether, if the award was good, the plea could be
sustained?
E. Til-lhnan, in support of the demurrer, contended, that the
award was good in itself; and that the piea, which entered into.
the merits of the original controversy submitted to the arbi-a
tors, was bad. 1 Vez.jr. 365.
Lewis, for the defendant, admitted, that in a common law
court in England, the plea would be bad; but he insisted, that
any plea, which contained matter proper for a bill in eqo.ity
there, would here be sustained in a Court of common law, from
the necessity produced by the want of a Court o! equity. If;
therefore, the award is baid on the face of it, the form of the plea
is immaterial. And it has been decided in Pennxlvania,tha,"
an award is not good, unless it determines the whole mattter in
dispute, and submitted; nor if it exceeds the subject submitted,
unless the excess can be separated and rejected; nor if it decides
matters submitted on one side, without deciding the matters submitted on the other side. Hu v. Parker, Conp. P1. Phil. Removed into the Supreme Court by writ of error, April 1787. If.
in short, the arbitrators mistake in a" plain point n.f law, theix
award ought to be set aside. 3 P. Wins. 362. 3 At. 486. 49-4.
529. And, in the present instance, the allowance of interest on
the one side, and the rejection of it upon the other, is a plain error in law and justice.
Rawle, in reply, having cited 1 Burr. 277. was stopped by th(

Court.
SHiPPEN, Chiefyustice. We are, unanimously, and clearly, of
opinion, that the award is good, in itself; and that the plea is b-ad.
As to the equitable power of the Court, we are often, for the sake
of right, obliged to introduce a chancery relief; but it is only in
cases, where we can, by such an interference, do justice to l6oth
sides; never to aid one man at the expense of another. If, too,
relief is granted in the case of an award, it must be on a plain
error in law, or fact, specifically set forth; which is not the pre.
sent case.
J'udgment for the plaintiff

