HIGH COURT
OF

ERRORS AND APPEALS
OF

PENNSYLVANIA.

January Session 1802.
(1) Present

SkMITH,

and

Justices of the Supreme
Court; ad
Presidents of the Circuits of
Common Pleas.

BRACKENIDGEJ

CoxE, and
RUSH,
ADDISON,I

Burd, Plaintiff in Error, versus Smith, Lessee of Fitzsimons et at.

E

RROR from the Supreme Court, on a judgment entered in
pursuance of the following agreement:
"1f4ontgomerycounty.
" Richard Smith, lessee of Thomas Fitzsimons, William
" M'Mgutric, Samuel T. Fisher, Philip Nicilin, and Isaac
"Wharton, v. Edward Burd.
" Ejectment for 130 acres of land in Perkiomen township, in
"ZJMontgomery county.
" It is agreed that the above action be entered, as an amicable
" action.ot trespass and ejectment, on the Circuit Court docket of
" Montgomery county, as of Mfarch term 1800; that a declara" tion and pleadings be filed, and issue joined conformably thereChief yustice, declined sitting in the
(1)CHW, President,and Siiiprr,
cause, on account of their connexion with the parties. YEATES (who was,
also, connected with the plaintiff in error), HEnNiy, and RiDDLE, .z48tices,
were -absent. The sessions of the Couit was adjourned, for want of a quorum,
from .7uly 1801, to the 1th of.7anuary 1802.
6cto;

CAsEs AEEIRMED o. REVERSED, &c.

77

cc to; that the annexed state of a case be filed as of J1une term 1802.
c 1800, in the nature of a special verdict, with an entry of the
"confession of lease entry and oaster; that judgment be ren"dered thereon for the plaintiff, without prejudice to the title,
"or right, of either party; that a writ of error on the said judg"ment be taken from the Supreme Court, tested as of the lass
"day of last December term of the same Court, and returnable
"in the same Court on the first day of March term following;
"that the said judgment be affirmed, of course, in the said Su" preme Court, as of the same term, without prejudice to the
"right of either party; and that no advantage be taken of any
"error in the form of the said proceedings, but every thing be
"done to give them validity."
The material facts, contained in the case, to which the agreement refers, were these: " That the title deeds of the land,
mentioned in the declaration, were delivered to Mr. Dallas, by
Mr. Blair If'Clenachan, previous -to the 2d day of September
1797, to enable him to draw a trust deed from "bIfClenachan to
him and Mr. 11uston; which was, accordingly, drawn, and delivered by Mr. Dallas to Mr. MI'Clenachan for the purpose of
having the same executed.
" That on the 2d of September 1797, Blair M'Clenachan was
seised in fee of the premises; and, at the same time, was indebted, on his separate account, and in partnership with . .oore to
divers persons (some of whom resided in Europe, and in other
places beyond seas) in large sums of money, amounting, in the
whole, to 435,073 dollars, and upwards. Many of the creditors
had co.-imenced suits in the Supreme Court against Blair
Zkl'Clenachan, and against 0I['1Cenachan and Mioore, which were
depending on the said 2d of September 1797; in some of them
judgments were obtained on the 4th of September 1797, to the
amount of 216,018 dollars; in others, judgments were obtained
in December and March terms then next following, to the amount
of 22,720 dollars; and on the said judgments, or some of them,
executions had issued.
" That Blair M'Clenachan and . Moore, jointly, or separately, not being able to satisfy and discharge the said debts,
Blair 21J'Clenachan, on the 2d of September 1797, made and executed a certain indenture for several estates, including the premises in the declaration mentioned, to A. V. Dallas and 7ohn
H. Hluston, containing (among other things) the following trusts,
conditions, and stipulations:
" Upon the special trust and confidence and to the sole intent and
" purpose that they the said Alexander James Dallas and John H.
"lHuston and the survivor of them and the heirs of the survivor
" shall sell and dispose ofthe lands and premises hereby conveyed
" and granted in such manner as the said trustees or the survivor
" or the heirs of the survivor shall deem most adviseable for the
" general

CASES AFFIR:%ED OR REVERSED IN THE

1802. " general interest of the aforesaid creditors and upon the receipt of
" the purchase monies, or securities for the same, the premises so
"sold by deed or deeds to grant and convey unto the purchaser
"or purchasers thereof in fee simple and that they the said
" Alexander Janzes Dallas and 'ohn H. Huston and the survi"vor of them and the heirs of the survivor shall pay and distribute the monies arising from-such sale or sales (after all costs,
"charges and expences attending this trust being deducted and
" paid) towards the payment and discharge of the debts of all
" such the aforesaid creditors, as shall in writing agree to ac" cept the same within nine months after the date hereof at such
"times as the said trustees shall deem the most adviseable, rate"ably and in proportion according to the whole amount of the
"said debts of him the said Blair .M'Clenachan and of the said
"partnership firm of Blair At'Clenachanand Patrick Aloore, and
" to pay unto the said Blair .AI'Clenachan his executors, admi"nistrators, or assigns, the proportion of all such creditors as
" shall not signify their acceptance within the specified time to
"the intent that he may therewith and thereout compound with
"and satisfy such creditors. And if the monies arising from
"the sale or sales of the lands and premises aforesaid shall be
"more than sufficient to answer the purposes aforesaid, that they
"the said 1exander Yanes Dallas and .ohn I-. Huston and
" the survivor of them, and the heirs of the survivor shall pay
" the overpius monies unto the said Blair AbClenachan his
executors, administrators, or assigns. And the said Blair
AM'Clenachan for himself, his heirs, executors, and admhiistra" tors doth covenant, promise and agree to and with the said
" Alexander 7anzes Dallas and .ohn H. Huston and each of
" them and the survivor of them and the heirs and assigns of
*4"them and the survivor of them in manner and form following
" that is to say that he the said Blair M'Clenachan and his heirs
" shall and will from time to time and at all times hereafter upon
"4the reasonable request and at the proper costs and charges of
"them the said Alexander .amnes Dallas and Yohn H. Huston or
"the survivor of them or of the heirs or assigns of them or of
"the survivor make execute and deliver or cause to be made,
"executed and delivered unto the said Alexander janes Dallas
"and 7ohn H. Huston or the survivor of them or the heirs or as"csigns of them or of the survivor all such further and other acts
" deeds conveyances and assurances in the law whatsoever, for
"the better and more perfect granting conveying assuring and
"vesting the lands and premises aforesaid in them the said Alex"ander fames Dallas and Yohn H. Huston and the survivor of
"them and the heirs and assigns of them and of the survivor upon
" the trust and confidence aforesaid as the said Alexander James
" Dallas and oohn H. Huston or the survivor of them or the
" heirs or assigns of them or of the survivor or their or either of
" their

hIGH COURT oF ERRORS AND APPEA°A.

7S

"their counsel learned in the law shall reasonably devise, advise 1802.
"or require. And the said Blair Zf'Clenachan and his heirs t
"the said lands and premises hereby granted or mentioned, or
"intended to be hereby granted with the appurtenances unto the
"said Alexander 7ames Dallas and 7ohn H. Huston and the
"survivor of them and to the heirs and assigns of them and of
"the survivor of them, against him the said Blair JlI'Clena"chatn and his heirs and against all and every other person or
"persons whomsoever lawfully claiming or to claim by from
"or under him them or any or either of them shall and will
"well and truly warrant and forever defend by these presents."
And this indenture was acknowledged on the 4th of September
1797, by the said Blair .AI'C!enachan, in the absence of Mr.
Dallas, one of the trustees, and no proof was given whether the
other trustee was present, or not. It was recorded in Philadelphia on the 24th of November, and in .fontgomery county, on the
27th of December, 1797.
" That the yellow fever prevailed in the city of Philadelphia
from the latter end of August, until the latter end of October, or
beginning of November, 1797; during which the said trustees
were absent from the city; but a communication with some of
the printers of the city was kept open, during the whole period,
by the medium of the post-office.
" That on the said 4th day of September 1797 Edward Burd
(the defendant in the ejectment) obtained a judgment in the Supreme Court, against the said B. JI'Clenachan,ior 5,333 dollars,
and 33 cents, besides interest and costs, with a stay of execution
for 60 days. A fi.fa. Was is3ued and returned upon this judgment, in the usual form to ground a testaturn; and, on the 15th
of November 1797, a testatuni ft. fa. was issued to the sheriff of
Zfontgomery county, which was delivered to the sheriff on the
next day. On the 24th of November, levy was made upon the
premises in the declaration mentioned; on the 8th of December
an inquisition was held on the premises, which were condemned;
on the 7th of 31arch 1798, a vend. exponas issued to the sheriff
of Mffontgomery, and the premises were, thereupon, in due form
sold to the said .EdwardBurd, for 9301.; on the 27th of 17arcs
1798, the sheriff made, and acknowledged in open Court, a deed
for the premises to the said Edward Burd; and shortly afterwards delivered to him the possession.
" That the said EdwardBurdhad no knowledge, or notice, of
the ececution, or existence, of the deed of trust to Dallas and
Hiuston, or of the proceedings under it, until subsequent to the
12th ot December 1797.
" That, on the 24th of November 1797, the trust deed was in
the possession of the trustees, or one of them, by delivery of the
said B. M"Clenachan; but when the same was so delivered is
not known. The other title deeds remained in the possession of
Mr.

s0

CAsEs AFFIRMED OR REVERSED IN ThE

1802.
-

Ir. Dallas during the yellow fever of in97, and until they werc
delivered by him to the lessors of the plaintiff.
" That, on the 15th of December 1796, an advertisement was
published, calling a meeting of the creditors of B. X'Clenachan,
and of ill'Clenachanand Moore; and at the meeting, on the 17th
of December, the creditors appointed a committee, though the
minutes of the appointment, &c. were not signed. This commit,
tee, on the 19th of December 1796, published an advertisement
called a caution, against making any purchases, or accepting any
conveyances of B. llf'Clenachan's estate, from him, or his children; to which AM'6Ylenachan published an answer, on the same
day; and, on the 21st of December, the committee replied.
" That, on the 12th of December 1797, M\1r. Iuston, one of the
trustees, published a notice of the trust deed, to the creditors of
.01'Clenachan,and Ml'Clenachan and Moore; and invited them to
give notice of their acceptance in due time. On the 19th of December, the creditors met upon the subject, in pursuance of a call pub.
lished in the papers of the 16th, 18th, and 19th of December. At
this meeting, the creditors expressed some dissatisfaction, relative
to the assignment made as aforesaid to Dallas and Huston, on a
mistaken idea, that it contained a stipulation for a release; and
the dissatisfaction went so far, that they determined not to accept the assignment on any such condition. But this mistake
being corrected, the committee of the creditors, on the 31st of
.7 lay 1798, gave notice of their a6ceptance of an interest under
the trust; and, on the 4th of 7une following, the trustees assigned
the trust estate, including the premises mentioned in the declaration, to the lessors of the plaintiff, who continued to be the
committee of the creditors, appointed by the minutes, as abovementioned, and were themselves creditors to a considerable
amount. The assignment of the trust was acknowledged on the
9th of 7une, and recorded, in Philadelphia,on the 12th of J7une
1798.
" That on the 18th of Mliarch 1799, B. l4f'Clenachan applied
fo be discharged as an insolvent debtor; but was remanded by
the Court. (2)
The cause was argued, in this Court, during the 12th, 13th,
14th, and 15th of January 1802, by Ingersoll, Lewis, and
'Kean, for the plaintiff in error; and by ./. Levy, Rawle, and
Dallas, for the defendants in error. The immediate question to
be decided was, whether, under the circumstances stated, the
deed of trust from M'Clenachan to Dallas and Huston, was
valid, or void, in relation to the title acquired by the plaintiff in
(2) Mr. .M'Clenachan, on the first alarm of the failure ofM.M'Clenachan & Moo, e
(whose business was left entirely to the management of .&1oore)- made several
voluntary conveyances to his children; and on this ground, principally, the
Supreme Court refused to discharge him as an insolvent deltor.

error?

HIGH COURT Or ERRORS AND APPEALS.

81

error? But, incidentally, the discussion embraced the general 1802.
doctrine of the efficacy of voluntary conveyances by debtors, in t-..J
trust for the benefit of creditors, upon specific conditions, or stipulations. The points and authorities were as follow:
aor the plaint:in error. 1st. A voluntary conveyance of the
description now under consideration, tends to defraud creditors
of the just fruits of legal process. 2 Bac. Abr. 601. Coup. 433.
And is, therefore, void under the statutes of 13 & 27 Bliz. On
the face of the deed, it appears to have been intended to defeat
judgment creditors; to delay and hinder plaintiffs in their recoveries at law; or, to give it the most favourable construction,
the deed was intended to preserve the property for creditors in
general, instead of allowing those who were suitors in a Court
of law, the advantage due to their meritorious vigilance. 2d.
The terms of the trust are indefinite, as to its mode and time ot
execution, even in favour of the accepting creditors; while, from
the very nature and operation of the deed, an interest is reserved
for the debtor. Thus, only those who accept the trust, with all
its appendages, can receive a benefit from it; and that benefit is
confined to a share in the small part only of the debtor's estate,
which the deed attempts to convey. Nine months are allowed for
an election, to the creditors indiscriminately, during which there
could be no distribution, and after the lapse of that period, the
debtor is entitled to the share of every non-accepting creditor,
as well as to the intermediate perception of the rents, &c. But
suppose there was no accepting creditor, did not the property
remain in the debtor? It did not pass to the general creditors;
and the trustees had paid no consideration for it. 3d. Then, it
is a fraud, where there is a conveyance to a trustee for the benefit of a debtor; and the strongest badges of fraud put in the
books, are to be found in the present case: for the possession
remains in M'Clenachan; the trust was not announced, even by
recording, till the 24th of November 1797; the conveyance was
made pending suits, to avoid judgments; the deed is not made to
a creditor, but to strangers, of the debtor's own nomination; and
the possession of the land was never delivered in pursuance of
the deed. Cowp. 435. 3 Co. 80. 2 Lev. 147. Nay, even the
deed itself was not delivered to the trustees, for two months
after its execution, during which period, M11Clenachan might
have destroyed it; or he might have sold the land effectually to
others, for a valuable consideration. 2 Vern. 510. 4th. The acceptance of the creditors was a pondition precedent to the
raising of a use in their favour; and if no use was so raised, the
conveyance to the trustees was merely voluntary, and void by
the statute of Eliz. against creditors. Besides, the performance
of the condition precedent was legally barred, by the lien, which
the testaturn execution had previously secured for the plaintiff
m
M
VoT.. IV.

CASES Arruiirn on REVERSED IN TIE
1802. in error. 2 Bac. Abr. 608. 1 Sid. 133. Cr. 1. 454. 5 Vin. Abr.
" Condition." 76. p1. 20. Ibid.178. pL.37. lb. 89.pl. 10. 5th. By
the express requisition of the deed of trust, the acceptance of the
creditors must be ii writing; and, of course, no assent, by implication, can render the use absolute. Cowp. 117. 1 C1a. Ca. 141. 143.
3 Co. 28. b. 3 Co. 29. It is stated in the case, that the creditors
did once refuse to accept; by which they had determined their
right of election, and could not afterwards reverse it; particularly so as to affect and destroy the liens of judgment creditors.
And even as to the act authorising an acceptance, it is a mere
minute of proceedings of a meeing; it is not subscribed by all
the cr'editors at the meeting; and the notice from the committee
can only operate, on the terms of the trust, as a notice in writing,
for those who actually signed it; since, a parol delegation of
power to a committee, could not be deemed a performance, in
-writing,of the condition precedent. 6th. The plaintiff in error
obtained a lien upon the land by the delivery of the testatinf. fa.
to the sheriff on the 16th of Niovember 1797; and the acceptance
of the creditors, even by their committee, was not sooner than
the 31st of .1lfay 1798. Then, it would be contrary to the principles of equity, and to the rules of law, that the estate thus
vested by the execution, should be divested, by a relation from
the time of the acceptance, to the date of the trust deed, against
a person, who is neither party, nor privy, to the acceptance, or
the deed. 3 Co. 25. 27. 26. 2 Vin. Abr. 285, 286. 288. 287. p1.
3. 1 TV. Black. Rep. 642. P/owd. 482. b. 2 rentr. 200. 13 Co.
21. a. Finch. 6. Style's Pr. Reg. 367. 18 Vin. Abr. 162. pl. 1.
5 Co. 119. b.
For the defendants in error. 1st. The title of the lessors of the
plaintiff, arises from a fair and honest transaction; though it
would be enough to remark, that the silence of the verdict (as
the case must be considered) is a legal negative of the insinuation of fraud. 10 Co. 56. And there is a valuable consideration
in law, for the trust deed, though it is no more than five dollars; which, however, coupled with a fair intention, completely
vests the title in the trustees. 2 B!. C. 296. 2d. The statute of
13 Eliz. c. 5. secures the rights of creditors, against motives
of" malice, fraud, covin, collusion, and guile," by annulling the
act which they produce. But if the present case is not so generated, it is not an act within the letter of the statute," to the
" end and purpose to delay, hinder, and defraud creditors, and
" others, of their just and lawful actions." In the construction
of the statute, it must, also, be remembered, that there is an essential difference between " the end and purpose," of an act, and
the Gonsequence and result, which naturally follow it. For, certainly, a creditor, on the eve of obtaining a judgment, may be
hindered, or delayed, as the necessary consequence of his debtor's
making

HIGH COURT OF ERRORS A.nI APPEALS.

q

making a conveyance of his estate, unquestionably valid, upon 1802.
a bond fide sale. To invalidate a conveyance, therefore, there
must not only be an intent, which consequentially hinders and
delays the creditor; but it must be a covinous and fraudulent
intention, to that end and purpose. Giving, therefore, the statute the most liberal construction (and it ought to be liberally
construed. Cowp. 434.) still the inquiry terminates, in ascertaining whether the conveyance is fraudulent, or not. 10 Co. 56.
1 Cha. Ca.. 291. 1 Vent. 194. 1 11fod. 119. 1 Ath. 15. Cowp.
708. 434. 2 Vez. 11. 2 Atk. 481. And what is fraudulent, depends on the moral intention; on the impulse of the will, to
perfOrm the act, which necessarily produces the obnoxious consequence. Bull. N. P. 257. By this test, what taint, or colour,
of fraud appears in the present case? The object of _iP Clenachan
was not fraudulently to hinder and delay any creditor; but
honestly to secure an equal distribution of the property among
all the creditors. If the purpose was fair and lawful, the deed
contains every formality, that is necessary for carrying it into
effect; and on the 2d of September 1797 the legal estate was
absolutely vested in Dallasand Huston. 3d. Reviewing, then, the
opposite argument, let us give to each point an answer. It is
urged, that the conveyance is not of all .D7,fClenachan's property.
We answer, that this does not appear from the facts stated; but
admitting it to be true, it strips the case of some of the badges
of fraud imputed to it; and leaves a fund to which the dissenting creditors might resort for satisfaction. Again: it is urged,
that the deed was made to trustees of his own choice. We answer, that there is no authority that declares this to be fraudulent.
In the case of General Stewart's settlement on Mrs. Stewart,
though the whole field of legal objection seemed to be travelled
over, this obstacle never occurred. But it is of the essence of a
voluntary conveyance, that trustees should not be forced on the
debtor; and, as it is generally a case of confidence, not of interest, a friend, or a brother, is more naturally resorted to, than a
creditor. If, indeed, the trustees were insolvent, or if any collusion could be charged upon them, it might be deemed a ground
to suspect, repudiate and annul the act; but the circumstances
of the present case exclude every idea of the kind; and a mere
possibility of wrong affords no rule for argument. Again: it is
urged, that the deed does not let in all creditors, but only such
creditors as assent in writing, within a limited period. We answer, that the trust is open to all; Prec. Ch. 105. and that eve'n
if a particular class of creditors only had been included, the deed
would have been valid. Again: it is urged, that the shares of
the non-accepting creditors were to be paid to MLClenachan, to
enable him to compound with them. We answer, that there is
no evidence in this, of a fraudulent intention; for, it is merely
an arrangement to pay the same debts, through different hands;
that

JP4
1802.

CAsEs AFmnMED OR REVERSED

IN

THE

that it was a provision, which depended entirely upon tie creditors; for, if they accepted, there would be nothing payable to
7ti'lcenachan; that OI'Clenaclhan's person was still liable to a
ca. sa. as no release was exacted; and the effect of the arrangement is precisely the same, as would be produced by a bond fide
sale of the premises. 4 T. Rep. 166. Again: it is urged, that if the
trustees had a right to sell, and did sell, before the creditors assented, and none of them assented in nine months, ArClihnachanmust
receive the whole of the money. Wve answer, that the objection
proves too much; it attacks all voluntary assignments; and, indeed, almost all conveyances. Assent, ex vi ternini, is a matter
subsequent; and trustees never can certainly know, that the creditors will take their dividends. The rule is, that the legal estate
must operate; and it vests, in the present instance, to the full
extent of selling and conveying the property. If creditors will
not then receive, does their refus,.l work an avoidance of the title
of the vendee? The vendee, in fact, and in law, has nothing to
do with the creditors, though he is bound to see, thatthe sale is
in execution of the trust. 1 Vern. 260. 1 Vez. 173. And the
creditors may give notice, and afterwards claim. 1 Vern. 319.
Again: it is urged, that during the period of nine months, the
trustees are restrained from making distribution. We answer,
that it is proper in all such cases to fix a reasonable period for
distribution; and that the bankrupt and the insolvent laws do so,
:as well as most voluntary conveyances. Whether the period of
nine months is reasonable, or not, must be determined; but it is
unfair to argue, that the power to fix a reasonableperiod, carries
with it a power to fix an unreasonable one. And here, it must
be observed, that there is no right reserved by ]M'Clenachan to
receive the rent of the premises, during that, or any other, period.
But, if the trustees, either as to the sale, or the distribution, were
guilty of any laches, or irregularity, they might be controuled under the act of 1774. 1 State Laws, 690. Dall. edit. Again: it is
urged, that the possession was not changed. NVe answer, that
the continuance of possession in the debtor, even of chattels (a
f orticri of real estate) is not, in itself, fraudulent, but evidence of
fraud, which may be rebutted. 1 Ld. Raym. 286. Prec. (han.
285. 1 P. IVnzs. 321. 2 T. Rep. 587. Cozwp. 435. But the legal
possession, or seisin, did pass to the trustees, according to the
law of Pennsylvania, at the moment of executing the deed.
Though no rent is paid, the possession of the lessee, is the possession of'the lessor. 3 Atk. 469. Shep. Touch. 65. .imbL. 599.
57. Rep. 424, 5. 1 Ey. Abr. 149. 1 Fonbl.194. Again: it is
urged, that the deed was executed in secret, andi not delivered to
the trustees for sometime after the execution; of which, too, the
plaintiff in error had no notice till it was recorded, on the 24th of
Yovember 1797. We answer, that the execution of a deed does
not call for publicity; that the case does not negative the fact.
that

HiG!I COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS.

.

that the deed was delivered to the trustees long before the 24th of 1802.
NMovember, but simply states that it was then in the possession of
one of them; that the deed shows, by inspection, a sealing and deIlvering on the 2d of September, and the legal presumption, till
the contrary is proved, is, that it remained with the trustees, from
the time of the delivery; that the deed was recorded within six
months, and thereby became good, even against a purchaser;
and that there is no evidence, or suggestion, that the plaintiff in
error lost any opportunity of recovering his debt, by the transactions respecting the deed. Cro. E. 7. Sheldon's case. Cro. E. 483..
1 P. Mns. 205. 577. 4th. Having thus reviewed, and answered,
the opposite arguments, it remains to consider, in the abstract,
whether the execution of the plaintiff in error, so intercepted the
interest in the land, as to defeat tht- trust? From the very nature
and operation of a trust, the legal title, an estate in fee, immediately passed from ZM'Clenachan to the trustees. 2 B.1 Corn. 271.
Nothing was left to him, but a contingent equitable interest; if
none of the creditors accepted; if only apart of the creditors accepted; or if there should be a surplus of property, after paying
all the creditors. This equitable interest attaches to the land, if
it is unsold; or it follows the proceeds of a sale, in the hands of
the trustees; and this interest, and no more, is subject to the lien
of a judgment creditor; Gilb. Chan. 230. 2 P. Wnzs. 491. 2 V'ez.
662. 1 ET. Abr. 325. Pow. Morig. 197. whose testatum into
fontgomery county cannot, in this respect, enlarge his right, or
his security, beyond the effect of the judgment, upon lands in
P-hiladelphia county. 5th. The right of a debtor to makea voluntary conveyance of his estate, independent of the statutes of bankruptcy, has never before been controverted, in England, nor in
Pennsylvania,even where a preference was given to one, or more,
of the creditors, in exclusion of the rest. 1 -Fonbl.260. 5 T. Rep.
420. 8 T. R.-I). 521. 530. Prec. Ch. 105. 5 T. Rep. 530. 532.
The insolvent'laws annul private family settlements made by a
debtor; I vol. State Laws, 257. 259. 4 vol. 270. but as to voluntary assignments, the right to make them, and their validity when
made, are expressly recognised. I vol. State Laws, 690. The
practice of making them in various forms is notorious; sometimes on condition of a general release to the debtor; sometimes
with a classification of property, according to which the sales
must be effected; and sometimes with a classification of creditorsy
according to which a priority of payment is to be observed.
The Courts of Pennsylvania have uniformly recognised and supported, voluntary conveyances, of these several descriptions, made
bond jide, and not colourably, with a latent and fraudulent use
for the debtor. (1) 1 Dall. Rep. 139. 430. 72. 2 Bl. Com. 333.
(1) This was agr'eed to be law by the counsel, on.both-sides; and SMITr,
uttice, (during the argument) declared, that it had been fi-equently so de.

cided in the Supreme Court.

I Co.

B6
1802.

CASES AFFIRMED eR

EVERSED IN T..HE

1 Co. 123. 2 Inst. 675.671.674, 5. 1 P. Wims. 278. 1 Vern. 260.
S10

Co. 56. Cro.

-.

550. 13 Vin. Abr. 554. 3 Ca. Chan. 85. In

.0latherv. Pratt et al. the Supreme Court was of opinion, that
the debtor might assign, for the benefit of one half of his creditors,
upon condition; and the plaintiff, a creditor, having sued the defendants, the voluntary assignees, without first complying with
the condition of the assignment, was non-suited.
The Court, after taking time to deliberate, delivered opinions,
seriatim, on the 20th of Yanuary 1802; of which the following
is given as a general outline.
SMITH, 7ustice. The question to be decided, is whether the
deed of trust is void, or valid, as against the plaintiff in error,
upon a just consideration of all the facts, that belong to the case?
The ostensible reason, for creating the trust, is a desire to make
a fair division of the property among all the creditors of Mr.
J71'Clenachan;and, if this is the real and operative motive, the deed
ought to be liberally construed, in order to give it effect: for,
equality is equity. There can be no doubt, likewise, of the right
of a debtor (and cases may be easily conceived, in which it
would be a duty) independent of the bankrupt laws, to give a
preference to some of his creditors, in exclusion of the rest;
and, from such a preference alone, the Court would not be disposed, hastily, to infer collusion, secret trusts, or meditated
frauds. Hence, it is incumbent upon us to support the present
deed of trust, unless in its provisions, and in its operation, it is
calculated unlawfully to hinder and delay, to deceive and defraud,
the creditors of the grantor. The facts stated in the case, do, indeed, acquit Mr. .M'Clenachan of any intentional, or mental,
fraud; but it is a distinct inquiry, and the only one before the
Court, whether they constitute a legal fraud; so as to vitiate and
destroy the act, without criminating the agent.
We are sufficiently impressed with the magnitude of the subject, in all its aspects; as it regards the immediate claims of a
numerous body of creditors, and as it regards the precedent to
be established for future times: but, avoiding much extraneous
:matter, which was introduced into the argument, we shall form
our judgments, exclusively, upon the facts contained in the special
verdici. We find, then, thiat, when Mr. 21f'Clenachanpurposed to
create the present trust, he was oppressed by an immoveable
weight of debt. He knew that many suits were instituted against
him; that in some of these suits, judgments would certainly be
obtained within forty-eight hours; and that in others, the de.lay
of judgment could not exceed a term. The apprehension of
these judgments, produced the determination to make an assignment of the estate.in trust. But still, if there is nothing unlawful
in the mode of effectuating that determination, nothing to justify
the suspicion of a latent unlawful purpose, the deed must, as
I have

HIGH COURT

OF ERRORS AND APPEALS.

I have said, be sustained. The omissions, as well as the actions, 1802.
of a man, will often, however, furnish evidence of his motives. I-_y-.
In Mr. MIClenachan's situation, why not call a meeting of his
creditors? why not appoint some of them trustees? or why not
openly state his object to be an equal distribution, and consult
those, who were most interested, as to the means of accomplishing
that object? From the start, therefore, when things, which ought
to have been done in prudence, as well as candor, are not
done, we find reason to suppose, that there is something more
intended, than is avowed. Again: when the deed is executed,
no schedule designating the creditors, or explanatory of the debts
and property, is annexed; so that the trustees remained ignorant
(though the grantor was not) of the facts, which were essential
to the execution of the trust, until Mr. 171'Clenach2ans application
to be discharged, as an insolvent debtor, in March 1789: and
until that period, in fact, the absolute controul of the uses of the
trust continued with him.
But, on the very face of the deed, it is void in law. No
debtor has a right to make his own trustees; and the very attempt would, under some cirdumstances, be considered as an act
of bankruptcy. *Ina conflict between the debtor and his creditors,
the trustees would generally prefer his interest; and, it must be
remarked, that the character and conduct of the present trustees,
cannot regulate the decision of a legal question. The assent of
one party, as well as the proposition of the other, is necessary to
compleat every contract. Burr. 2241. The creditors could have
no remedy against the trustees before they assented; and if they
did not assent, there was a resulting trust to the grantor, which
placed them entirmly at his mercy.
It ispetitioprincipii,to argue on the ground that Mr. Zd3Clenachan might have sold and dissipated the property: and, particularly, after the caution published by the creditors, a purchaser
would have run some risque in concluding this bargain. Lord
Ifkan..'eld somewhere expressly states, that a purchase even for a
valuable consideration, but with a view to defeat a judgment
creditor, is fraudulent and void.
On these grounds, therefore, that no schedule accompanied, or
followed, the deed of trust; that the deed was made without the
consent of any of the creditors; and that it contains a resulting trust
to the grantor, thereby placing the dissenting creditors in his power;
I think the judgment of the Supreme Court ought to be reversed.
BRACKENRIDGE, Yustice. I think the deed of trust is void
for various reasons. 1st. The resulting trust, in case of a dissent,
on the part of the creditors, is for the debtor himself. 2d. The
time, for sale and distribution of the trust estate, is indefinite.
3d. The trust was not accepted by the trustees; or, at least4'by
the creditors. 4th. The trustees were appointed by the grantor
himsell

38

CASES AFFInR.XED OR REVERSED IN THE

1802. himself. 5th. There is no covenant to compel a sale and distribu.
Stion.
6th. There is no schedule of the creditors, by which the
trustees could know, to whom distribution was to be made.
I will add a general observation. It has been said, that a debtor
may favour particular creditors. The right has been allowed,
perhaps, on a principle of humanity; or in favour of just debts,
to exclude debts in law, not strictly ex debito justitime. But I do
not think, that the practice should be encouraged. It is calculated
to create confusion, uncertainty, and collusion. I see nothing
that will prevent the mi~chiefs of voluntary settlements, and conveyances, but a general declaration that they are all void, as against
creditors. The general consent of creditors might, perhaps, be
a ground of exception; but not even that should be admitted, to
give retrospective force to a deed, with a view to cut out, and
defeat, an intermediate lien.
The judgment of the Supreme Court should be reversed.
Rusir, Yustice. Although it has been thought expedient to interweave a great variety of facts, into the statement of the case,
now before the Court, yet the decision rests upon a narrow
ground. It is a controversy between the creditors of B. 1Jf'Clenachan, and the general question turns upon the validity of the
deed of the 2d September 1797; by which, the premises mentioned in the declaration, and much other landed property, were conveyed in trust, to A. Y. Dallas and otohn H. Huston, to sell and
dispose thereof, in such manner as they should deem most adviseable for the general interest of the creditors; and also that
they should pay and distributethe monies arising from the sales,
towards the payment and.discharge of the debts, of all such of
the creditors, as shall in wRITING, agree to accept the same,
within nine months, after the date thereof, at such times, as th3
said trustees shall deem most adviseable, rateably and in proportion, according to the whole amount of the debts of the said B.
."PMlenachan; and also, that they tht said trustees should pay
unto the said B. MICenachan, his executors, administrators, and
assigns, the proportion of all such creditors, as shall not signify
their acceptance, within the specified time, to the intent, that he
may therewith and thereout compound with, and satisfy, such
creditors.
If this deed be legal and valid, there is an end of the question.
The claim of the plaintiff in error must instantly vanish out of
sight.
It is therefore proper to inquire,
1st. Is this deed fraudulent or not?
2d. Ifit-be not fraudulent, what is the true construction and
operation of it?
1st. The construction of all written instruments, is the peculiar
and exclusive duty of Courts. They alone d-de on the face of
a deed,

8

AIGH COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALL.

a deed, whether it be void or not; in which cases, such appar- 1802.
ent fraud, is called a fraud in law, because it does not depend k-r=
upon any extrinsic matters of fact, but solely upon the inspection
of the instrument, which must necessarily exclude the motive of
the grantor.The deed of September 2d, 1797, purports on the face of it, to
delay the creditors of their lavful suits, and is, therefore, within
the statutes .against fraud. 'Until the expiration of nine months,
no distribution was to be made, nor any creditor paid, however
vigilant he might have been. If a debtor may in-this mode, and
by a device of this sort, frustrate his creditors for nine months,
where shall the line be drawn? Why not delay his suit for nine
years, as well as nine months? His right is the same, in both cases.
As there is no law of the land, that authorises a debtor to pass
an act of limitation in his own favour, I hope this Court will
never do it for him. The conduct of the debtor.reduced to plain
language is this: I will bid defiance to my creditbrs, for any period I shall think proper to fix; and this without their assent or
concurrence. I will fix on-such trustees as will favour me, by
neglecting to advertise till the nine months are nearly expired,
in order that a few creditors only, may have notice of the trust,
and signify their assent.
In deciding this cause, we are to consider it as a generalquestion. The character of the present trustees is to be kept wholly
out of view; for though they would act uprightly, there are other
trustees that would act differently. Other trustees might advertise within the last month, in hopes, that only a few creditors
would subscribe, and, consequently, the resulting fund be larger
and more beneficial for the debtor.
The design of the statutes, is expressly to make void such
deeds, as tend to delay and frustrate creditors of their suits.
It is not, therefore, material, whether the deed be made to trustees, for the benefit of the creditors, without their knowledge, if
it produce this effect. The end shall in no cetse sanctify the
means, and render that legal, which the law has pronounced
fraudulent.
In the case before the Court, we have an instance of a man
plunged into debt, covered with law suits, overwhelmed with
judgments, and others impending over his head, suddenly and secretly, without the knowledge of a single creditor, conveying to
trustees of his own nomination, an immense property, on such
terms and in such manner, as he has chosen to.prescribe. I cannot conceive any thing more dangerous, than to sanction by a
judicial determination, a deed of this description. It will be
vesting the debtor with unlimited power at all times over his.
property, to bamte his creditors, under the specious pretext of
paying them.

Vol. IV

N

A decision

)0
1802.
L

CAsEs ArFIRMED ORt REVERSED IN THE
A decision of this sort is warranted by no adjudged case in
the books. in Lutwich v. Caillaud, 5 Term, 420. all the creditor", except one, approved of the conveyance in trust, and that
one had never sued Lord Abington before the deed was executed.
In Englis and others, assignees of Campbell, a bankrupt, v. Grant,
it is expressly stated, not only that the generality of the creditors
assented to the trust, but the conveyance and covenant were with
the creditorv of Campbell
The case of Veeve and Ladbroke, assignees of Wilsmore, v. the
executors of Thomas 1ismore, was a conveyance in trust, to pay
a debt due to one of the trustees; without any clause limiting the
creditors in point of time, with respect to their demands on the
trustees.
From the nature and operation of the deed of the 2d September
1797, as well as by the express terms of it, the grantor has resee'ved an interest in himself, which is an acknowledged badge of
fraud. It should be remembered, that this is an unsolicited deed
to trustees, with an important resulting trust; the value and amount
of which, is left entirely in the discretion of the trustees. By
selling when they think adviseable, and by omitting to give notice of the trust for seven or eight months, nearly the whole property would, by these means, revert to the grantor.
For these reasons I am of opinion, the deed is fraudulent.
2d. But if it be not fraudulent, what are its true operation and
construction, in point of law?
It might have happened, and in fact was very near taking
place, that the condition on which the deed was to operate, had
altogether failed. It was not till the 31st Blay that any of the
creditors signified their assent in writing, as the deed required.
It is certain, if no creditor had ever assented, that the trust would
have been defeated, and the estate have continued in the grantor.
Until the creditors, therefore, or some one of them assented to
the deed, it could have no possible operation, so as to accrue to
their benefit; Until this event, the trustees were seised to the
use of B. M3I6cnachan, and the property remained liable to executions as his. Between the 2d day of September 1797 and the
.31st of JIfay following, the title to'the premises in question was
legally-vested in the plaintiff in error, and could never afterwards
be 'livested by any fiction of law.
Upon both these grounds I am of opinion, that the judgment of
t lower Court should be reversed.
ADDISON, 7ustice.- All the points in discussion are reducible
to the two questions: 1st. Is the deed of trust valid? 2d. If it is
valid, when did it commence its operation?
Ist. The deed was executed for an honest purpose; for the sole
purpose of making an equal distribution of the property, among
all the grantor's creditors; and there is not the slightest symptom

of

HIGH COURT OF ERRORS iN-D APPEALS.

of meditated fraud, in any part of the transaction. But the motive, 1802.
and the effect, of setting this deed aside, will be to prefer the exclusive claim of an individual judgment creditor, to the distributive claims of the general creditors; so that by paying him
the whole of his debt, they will be deprived of every part of their
debts. I think it, therefore, a dutN-, by every legal and rational
presumption, to support, if possile, the deed of trust; and I
find no difficulty, in pronouncing it, in the first place, to be a
valid deed.
2d. I am, likewise, of opinion, that the deed took effect from
its date. It was susceptible of an honest execution; and it has,
in point of fact, been honestly executed. But an honest execution,
might have been enforced, if there had been any disposition to
evade it. One of the trustees drew the deed, and his name is
inserted in it. This was such evidence of an acceptance of the
trust, as would be sufficient, Nvith respect to that trustee at least,
to enable the creditors to compel him to perform it.
If the deed were framed for an unlawfil purpose, or if, in its
operation, it must necessarily introduce, dishonest and fraudulent
consequences, it ought to be set aside. But this admission does not
affect its validity, merely because it tended to delay some creditors. The motive of the party must be weighed. If a deed,
which delays and hinders a creditor, is made upon selfish interests,
or upon a mere impulse of benevolence, it is within the statute:
Lut a deed made upon a principle of equal justice to all creditors,
however it may intercept the views of a particular creditor, is
good, in law, -equity, and conscience.
I cannot persuade myself to think, that a deed formally made,
with such honourable views, can be destroyed by the extrinsic
considerations, that the grantor appointed the trustees; that there
was no general assent of creditors to the t:ust; or that a schedule
of the creditors was not annexed. And as to the reservatioh of
a contingent interest, or use, for the grantor, it is enough to remark, that it arose out of the nature of the transaction; that it
could not take place, but by the negligence of the creditors themselves; and that any attempt of the trustees to favour the grantor
improperly, or dishonestly, would be defeated by the pow ers of
a Court of justice.
Upon the whole, therefore, my voice is for affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court.
CoxE, Yustice. I have been led to consider the case, with a
double aspect, to ascertain, 1st. Vhether the deed is, in itself, a
good legal conveyance? And, 2d. Whether the trust created by
the leed is such as a Court of equity would support?
1st. We are bound by the facts stated in the case, or special
verdict; and there, (independent of the deed itself) no allegation,
or suggestion, of fraud can b discovered. Consider thc transacI ion

"2

CASE AFFIRMED OR REVERSED IN THE

1802. tion in its progressive steps. The very execution of the deed,
(which the case states) imports a delivery; and as the fact is nok
contradicted, it is a necessaiy legal presumption, that there was
a delivery. The subsequenti ncknowledgment of the execution, is
not inconsistent with this presumption; because it is an acknowledgment before a magistrate, of a previous delivery, for the purpose of placing the deed on record. The pecuniary consideration,
though a nominal, is a legal consideration; and this is fortified by
the equitable consideration, for which the deed was made, a payment of debts. Then, the acceptance of the trust, to execute it,
is, likewise, a matter of legal presumption, from the delivery of
the deed to the trustees; and, indeed, any other evidence of acceptance, is seldom to be obtained.
Still, however, the great question recurs: is the deed on the
face of it, a fraudulent, or a bond fide, conveyance? A candid
and just interpretation of the trust must enable us to decide. It
is true, that the trustees derive'from the deed a power to sell the
property, as they deem most adviseable; but this is a discretion to
be exercised, expressly, for the general interest of Iie creditors.
It is true, that..the trustees are only authorised to distribute the
fund, among the creditors, who shall agree, in writing, within
nine months, td accept their shares; but the exclusion from a
share must be the act, or omission, of the creditor himself. It is
true, that the shares.of the non-assenting creditors are to be paid
to Mr. NkClenachan; but even this payment is to be made, "to
"the intent that he may therewith, and thereout, compound with,
and satisfy such creditors." These provisions, howeveX, are
the principal sources of objection to the deed itself, as inherent
badges of legal fraud. But are there not, on the other hand, unequivocal marks of a fair and lawful trust, that niust, at once, obviate and remove such slight and doubtful causes of suspicion?
In the first place, there is an equal distribution of all the property
conveyed, among all the creditors. In the next place, there is no
stipulation for a release in favour of the grantor. And, finally,
the creditors, notwithstanding the acceptance of a share in this
fund, are left free to pursue every legal remedy, for the recovery
of a full satisfaction, against the person, as well as against any,
other property, of their debtor. It is not to be denied, that the
conveyance was made for the very purpose of hindering the lien
of future judgments and executions upon the trust property; or,
in other words, to preser.e the property for an equal distribution
among the creditors, instead of leaving it- exposed to the priority of judgment creditors alone: but so far from vitiating the
deed, so far from Justifying the imputation of fraud, this motive
has been considered at the bar (and so I consider it) as the best
fundation, in laNy and equity, for the trust. There is no positie statute, there is no rule of the common law, there isno principle of equityb to be traced in the Code of England,or of Pennsylvania,

9'

HIG - COURT or ERRORS AND APPEALS.

,ylvania, that would warrant us in declaring this deed void, upon 1802.
such a view of its intention, and its effect.
I will consider, however, more particularly, some of the additional objections, that have been made to the validity of the deed,
by the counsel for the plaintiff in error. 1st. It is said, that the
trust is general: but both in the manner, and in the time, of executing it, the trustees must act conscientiously, or they will incur
a responsibility, as for a breach of trust. 2d. It is said, that the
assent of the creditors, in writing, within nine months, is a condition precedent, to the investment of the trust. I am rather disposed, however, to treat it as a condition subsequent, for obvious
reasons. The legal title passed on the execution of the deed,
and the trust immediately attached to the estate. The assent of
the creditors must, to be sure, be given afterwards, in order to
entitle them to distributive portions of the fund; but how is the
assent to be made, a condition precedent, in relation to the legal
estate, and the trust, both of which were previously established?
The trustees might have sold the property, immediately after the
execution of the deed, before any assent declhrcd; and as to a
declaration of assent in writhg, this has always been regarded is
a non-important part of the proceeding. 3d. it is said, however,
that there should, in some form, be an assent of the creditors to
the trust, in order to render it valid. A difficulty seems here to
have arisen from confounding the particular assent, required by
the deed to share in the trust fund; and the presumed assent in
law, from the date of the instrument: for, whenever a trust is
raised for creditors, their acceptance of it is a legal presumption.
Nothing remained in 01J'Clenachan from the execution of the
deed, but a mere contingency; and even that contingency, depended entirely upon the act of the creditors. Until the trust
was defeated, no judgment, or testatunr execution, could affect
the property; and, consequently, if it was a good subsisting trust
on the 2d of Yeptenzber 1797, it was good against all subsequent
liens. 4th. It is said, that there was not a schedule of creditors
annexed to the deed; but although this may be convenient to the
execution of the trust, it does not appear to me to be essential to'
its validity. The trustees might easily have supplied the want
of it, by calling a meeting of the creditors. And the nine months
allowed for declaring their assent, and making.a distribution,
seems but a reasonable period, considering the dispersed state of
the debts. 5th. It is said, that the payment of the shares of nonassenting creditors to Ml'Clenachan, placed them at his'mercy;
but suppose the objection to this p'trt of the deed should be well
founded, does it follow that the whole deed is void? Shall all
the assenting creditors be deprived of their interest, because the
dissenting creditors have produced a dilemma, in the appropriation of a part of the trust fund? I would rather say, that the trust
is bon6 fide and operative, as to the assenting creditors; but void
in

M

CASES ArixRxEED oit REVERSED, &C.

1802. in its modification, as to thb shares of the dissenting creditors.
5 T. Rep. 432. 4.
L
2d. It is my opinion, likewise, that the trust, created by this
deed, would be supported and enforced in a Court of equiiy. A
condition subsequent (as I consider the assent in writing of the
creditors to be) is seldom literally enforced in a Court of equity;
which looks only to the substance of the trust. For instance,
either by negligence, or owing to the public calamity of the yellow fever, three months elapsed before the deed of trust was advertised; but Chancery (where time, not being the material point,
is often enlarged) would not allow this period to be lost to the
creditors. It is not probable, therefore, that- there would be an
outstanding creditor, in such a. case, as the present;" and, at all
events, so remote a probability ought not affect the decision. A
Court of equity could, I think, mould all the powers and forms
of the trust, so as to do complete justice to the parties. And
hat a Court of equity would do, the Judges of Pennsylvania,
deciding apon a subject of equity jurisdiction, are in the uniform
practice of doing.
For these reasons, I am of opinion, that the judgment of the
Supreme Court, ought to be affirmed.
By the COURT, however,
Let the judgment be reversed;

