SUPREME COURT
or

PENNSYLVANIA.

September Term 1799.
Ball versus Dennison.

T

HIS was an action brought by the indorsee, against the indorser, of a promissory note for 5000 dollars, drawn by
Samuel Emory, on the 26th of December 1795, and payable 65
days after sight. The drawei, failing to pay the note, it was regularly protested, on the 3d of March 1796, and the only question agitated upon the trial, was, whether reasonable notice of the
non-payment was given to the indorser, or due diligence employed to give it?
The material facts were these: Emory and Dennison had purchased from the managers of the Schuylkill canal lottery a number' of tickets, for which a note was given to the president, the
plaintiff in this action. The purchasers settled their accounts of
the spqculation', before the note became due, in consequence of
which Emory was bound to pay the note; but when it became due,
Dennison agreed to continue his indorsement for the accommodation of Emory, though the joint interest had ceased; and the
plaintiff, by way of renewal, at the instance of Emory, took the
note, on which the present action was instituted. Dennison was
not a permanent inhabitant of. Philadelphia; but was domiciled
at Havre de Grace, in Maryland. He had, however, an agent in
Philadelphia, to whom the banks, in consequence of written instructions, delivered the notices of his paper engagements payable there, on which he was drawer (not indorser) during the
years 1795, and 1796; and who constantly, for that period, made
the necessary payments; nor would he have hesitated (he de,.
dared) to pay the present note, if he had been informed of th&
default of the drawer. It appeared, likewise, that Dennison was,
occasionally, in the city of Philadelphia,in the months of F ebruary, March, April, flay, June, August, and September 1796; and,
in

164
1799.

CASEs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

,i the month of M2lay, Envzory informed him of the protest; but,
at the same time, declared that he had made preparation to discharge the note. On the other hand, it was proved, that after
the default of the drawer, particular and repeated inquiry was
made for the indorser by the notary, as well from Emmory as
others; that the indorser was not then in Philadelphia,and the
notary did not himself know that he had an agent here, for such
purposes, though he knew there were transactions of business
between him and the person, who is said to have been his agent;
that the notary heard Dennison lived at Havre de Grace, but, at
the same time, was told, he had gone to the eastward; that as
soon as the plaintiff understood that Dennison was in the city
(about six weeks, or two months, after the protest) the plaintiff's
clerk called on Dennison, mentioned the ftcts, and demanded
payment; when Dennison said, that he had received no part of
the proceeds of the lottery tickets; but that he would urge Emmory to discharge the note.
The defendant's counsel contended, on these facts, that there
was not reasonable notice of the protest of the note, nor due
diligence to give it: that, under the circumstances of the case,
the defendant was not under. a moral obligation to pay the note,
and might fairly take advantage of the strict rule of law, according to 1 DalI. Pep. 234. 252. 270. 2 Dall. Rep. 158. 192.: that
no notice was given to the indorser till .,fay 1796, though he was
occasionally here, before that time, and subsequent to the protest;
though he had an agent here; and though he lived in a neighbouring state, to which the post would have carried notice, in the
course of a few days: and that actual knowledge of non-payment,
is not sufficient to charge an indorser, unless the infbrmation is
received promptly from the holder, with notice that he looked to
the indorser for payment: Kyd on Bills. 79. 1 T. Rep. 167.
5

Burr. 2670. 1 T. Rep. 712.

The plaintiff's counsel insisted, that as the private arrangement ibetween Dennison and Enmory, was unknown to the
plaintiff, his claim upon the defendant in morality, as well as law,
could not be impaired by it; that the law was not controverted.
on the authority of the cases cited; but still it left the inatter of
fact to be ascertained, what was reasonable notice of protest, under all the circumstances of the case? that the first important
feature of the case, exhibits the defendant as a non-resident of
Philadelphia, a mere transient visitor: that notice sent south tw
Havre de Grace, when it was known he had gone north, would have
been useless and idle: that the notary did not know, and the evidence is, otherwise, uncertain in the instance of the defendant's
being an indorser, that he had any agent in Philadelphia: and
that due and diligent inquiry was made for the indorser in Philadelphia, where the consideration arose, and the note was given.
As

SUPREME COURT Or PENNSYLVANIA.

As to the cases cited, for the defendant, they are susceptible of 1799.
answers, easily distinguishing them from the present case. Thus:
In 1 Dal. Rep. 234. 270. the bill was kept two years and a half;
the indorser lived in Poughkeepsie, only 130 miles distant; he was
a man of note, in extensive business, and actually had some transactions with another of the indorsers. In 1 Dall. Rep. 252. the
note was protested for non-payment on the 12th of Yune 1786;
on the 5th of Yudy and 23d of August, the plaintiff received partial payments from the drawer; and it was not till after the last
date, when the drawer had become embarrassed, that notice was
given to the indorser; who, during the whole time, lived and
kept a counting house in Philadelphia. In 2 Dall. Rep. 158, both
parties lived in Philadelphia; and the jury thought three or four
days was not too late to give notice. In 2 Dal. Rep. 192. the
bill of exchange was drawn in Septemnber 1781, presented and refused acceptance in Novenber 1781, and protested for non-payment in August 1782; but no notice was given to the indorser
till the beginning of the yeal- 1790. When the bill was presented,
the drawee had funds of the drawer in his hands; but he had
paid the amount to the drawer's agent, who died, and whose wife
had lost the money.
SHiPPEN, yustice. (1) The cause depends upon one point,
which is a matter of fact. The general law is, that when a promissory note is dishonoured by the drawer, the indorser becomes
immediately liable; and the holder is entitled to recover the
amount from him, unless he is discharged by the act of the holder, either in giving further time, or credit, to the drawer; or in
neglecting to give the indorser due notice of the non-payment.
This notice is indispensable: so hiuch so, that it is immaterial.
whether the drawer becomes insolvent before the notice, or not,
Still, however, what constitutes due notice, is a point to be settled. In England (where it is regarded as a question of law) the
rule is strict and positive, that the notice must be given on the
next day, if the parties live in the same place; and by the next'
post, if they live in different places. But in Pennsylvania, it has
hitherto been regarded as a matter of fact, to be decided by a
jury, under all the circumstances of each case, as it arises. In
deciding it, however, the jury will always be governed by a
sound and reasonable discretion. They will Ollow but a short
time for giving notice, where tlie parties reside in the same
town; for, six weeks in such a case would certainly be too long;
and, for giving notice in different parts of the country, the, will
bring into the calculation of a reasonable time, the facility of the
post, the state'of the roads, and the dispersion of the inhabitants,
in relation to the post towns.
(1) SHIP rv, and Smi
Ile trial of this cause

'yt.ct,

were the only judges on the bencb, at

Wiih

CASEs RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C.

166

1799.
With these prefatory remarks, let us review the circumstances
%
of the present case. The note was duly protested for non-payment. The notary, at the same time, made diligent inquiry after the indorser; particularly Irom the drawer, who was most
likely to possess the necessary information. 'He heard that the
indorser lived at Havre de Grace, but was then gon. to the eastward. Proof has, also, been given of Dennion'. repeatedly
visiting Philadelphia, after the protest; but it is not proved,
that the plaintiff was acquainted with the fact; and, without that
proof, he cannot be legally charged with laches. It is proved,
that 51 B. Bond was Dennison's general agent in Philadelphia;
but it is not proved, that he was a public, known, agent; nor
(which is again essential to affect the plaintiff's claim) that the
plaintiff was apprised of the a'gency. As to the fact, that Dennison lived at Havre de Grace; and as to the argument, that notice ought to be given wherever the indorser lives; it is important to remember, that the commencement of the transaction was
in Philadelphia; that the note was dated there; and that all the
parties contemplated Philadelphiaas the place of payment. Besides, it would interrupt the negotiability of notes, and greatly
embarrass the general operations of commercial credit, if an indorser was entitled to notice, on the strict terms suggested,
though he lived in the East, or the West t Indies; or though he.
was a mere itinerant, constantly shifting the place of his abode,
and the scene of hi business. It is, therefbre, an object of leading influence, in the decision of this cause, to consider, whether,
under all the circumstances in proof, the plaintiff was bound to
inquire for the defendant, beyond the city of Pliladelphia? The
case of Steinmnetz v. Curry, 1 Dall.*Rep. 234. 270. ought not to
be a guide on the occasion; for, there, the .bill was kept by the
holder two years and a half, wi.hout giving notice to an indorser,
who was known to reside constantly at Poughheepsie, in NewIork. But, upon the whole, it appears to the Court, that the
plaintiffodid make a prompt inquiry for the indorser in the city
of Philadelphia; and that the defendant has not sufficiently
established those facts, which would have made it incumbent
upon him, either to send notice to Havre de.Grace; or to serve
notice upon the agent in Philadelphia. If the jury concur in the
opinion, they will find for the plaintiff; but if they do not, it is
their right, and their duty, to find for the defendant.
.

Verdict (delivered without the jury's retiring from the bar)
for the plaintiff, 6051 13 dollars, and six cents costs.

