348

CASES RULED AND ADJUDG :D IN THE

1800. experiment shall enable him to make his election with certainty
L
of profit one way, and *ithout loss any way. This mode of procedure is unfair; contrary to natural justice, and in exclusion of
inutu:ditV.
There is a sfrange mixture of legal and equitable powers, in
the .Courts of law of -this state. This arises from the want of a
distinct forum to exercise chancery jurisdiction; and, therefore,
the common law Courts equitise'as far as possible. Whether, if
relief be proper,.the Supremr Court of this state could bave extended it to the complainant, it is unnecessary to determine.
Thus much, however, might .and ought to have be'n done, on
the part of the complainant; he ought, when notice was given for
him to show cause why judgment should not be entered, to have
laid the equity of the case before the judges of that Court, who,
if they thought proper, might have deferred the entering of judgment, or ordered it to be entered on terms, to wit,'to be vacated
on payment of the awarded sum, by a limited period. But tiie
complainant, although he had previous notice, did not avail himself pf an appeal to the discretion of the Court; but suffered
judgment to pass against him, without making any objection.
There being no equity in the complainant's case, his bill must
be dismissed, with costs.

Thurston versus Koch.

T

HIS cause came before the Court on the following case,
. stated bv the counsel, Condy, for the plaintiff, and Ingersoll,
for the defendant.
CL"On the 13th of October 1196, William L Vredenburgh, of the
"city of New-Tork, merchant, caused himself to -be insured, at
"the city of NewTYor4," in a certain policy of -insurance, which
"was subscribed by the plaintiff, in the sum of 14,500 dollars,
upon any kind of goods and merchandise, laden, or to be
"laden, on board the brigantine Naicy, captain King, master,
"lost' or not lost, at and from any port and ports in the West"'CCIdies, and at and from thence to Arew-21or,, and there safely
" landed, beginning the adventure upon the said goods and merchandises, from the lading thereof on board the said vessel, at
" the West-Indies.
" On the 17th of October 1796, the said William I. Vreden,bztrgIh, by 7acob Sperry and Co. his agents, caused himself to
"be insured, at the city of Philadelphia,in a certaih other policy
"of insurance, which was subscribed by the defendant, in the
"sum of 1300 dollars, with other underwriters, in the whole
"amounting to 12,000 dollars, upon all kinds of lawful goods,
and merchandises, lost, or not lost, laden, or to be laden, on
" board

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRrCT9

349

"board the said brigantine Nancy, at and from Cape Nichola 1800.
cc Aole, to any ports and places in the Wrest-Indies, to trade, and
" at and from either ot them to New-2ork, beginning the advenc ture from and immediately following the loading thereof on
"board the said brigantine at Cape Nichola'Mlole, and so to con" tinue until safely landed at any ports and places in the West" Indies, and at Nezv-w.orh aforesaid. The premium demanded
" upofi this policy, was ten per cent. and was duly paid by the
"Csaid 7acob Sperry and Co. on behalf of the said William I.
"c Vredenburgh, to the defendant and the other underwriters
" upon this policy.
" On the 20th of October 1796, the said VMzlliain .Lreden.
"burgh, caused himself to be insured, at the city of New-21ork,
"in a certain other policy of insurance, .which was subscribed by
"the Nezv-rork insurance company, for the sum of 2,200 dol"lars, upon all kinds of lawful goods and merchandises, lost, or
"not lost, laden, or to be laden, on board the said brigantine
"Nancy, at and from any port or ports in the W1rest-Indies, to
" New-Y1ork, beginning tle adventure from the loading thereof
cc on board the said brigantine, at any port or ports in the West,t Indies, and so to continue until safely landed at New-York, &c.
ccOn the 12th day of September 1796, the said brigantine
" Nancy, with the said goods and merchandises, so -laden on
board, and ifisured and covered by the said policies as aforesaid, sailed from Cape Aichola Mole, in the West-Indies, for St.
" Marks, likewise in the West-Indies, and in the-prosecution of
" the said voyage, from Cape Nichola Mole to St. .Marks afore"said, with her cargo, including the said goods and MLrchm" dises, so insured as aforesaid, was captured by a French pri"vateer, and condemned; hy which capture, the said goods and
" merchandises were wholly lost to the insured. Upon this,
" suits were brought into the Supreme Court of the state of
"New-ork, against the plaintifl upon the policy by him sub"scribed, and against the Netv-rorh insurance company, on the
policy by them subscribed; in which suits, the insured, the said
" lvill'am IL Vredenburgh, recovered as for a total loss.
"The amount paid by the llaintiff (after the usual deductions)
"for the loss, was 12,740 dollars, with 1783 dollars and 60 cents
"interest, and 418 dollars and 32. cents costs. He has; likewise,
"paid, to the said assured, 1083 dollars and 60 cents, being the
"amount of the premium upon the policy subscribed by the defendants (after the deductions allowed in the case of a returned
"premium) as a consideration for the assignm.eit of the said
"policy to the plaintiff. The Nerv-York insurance company have
" paid to the assured 2156 dollars, being the amount of their
policy (after the usual deduction in case of loss) with 301 dol"l:ars 84 cents interest. The several sums so paid, have comsatisfied the loss, with all the interest and costs.
Splet,
"

Questidi,

350
1800.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

Is the defendant
"- (Question for the opinion of the Court.
(one of the underwriters, on the Philadelphiapolicy, of the 17th
of Octler 1796) liable to make any, and, if an', hat contribu"tion to the plaintiff, upon the loss so paid as aforesaid by him?
" Or, in other words, Is the defendant liable to pay more than the
anmount of the loss, beyond the sum previously insured?
" If the Court shall be of opinion in the affirmative, thenjudg"ment shall be entered for the plaintiff, in such suini as, upon the
principles egtablished bv the Court, shall be found due. But,
"if the Court shall be of opinion in the negative, then judgment
" shall be entered for the defendant."
After argument, the opinion of the COURT was delivered by
the presiding Judge, in the following terms:
PA 'rnSON, 7ustice. The case before the Court is that of
a double insurance; and the uestion is, whether the insurers
shall contribute rateably, or shall pay according to priority of
contract, until the insured be satisfied to the amount of his loss.
The law on this subject, is different in different nations of Europe, owing to the diversity of local ordinances, whiclh have beenmade to regulate commercial transactions. By the ordinance of
one country, the contract is declared t6 be void, and a forfeiture
superadded; whereas, by the ordinances of other countries, the
contract is merely void, without any forfeiture. By the ordinance
of Spain, if a policy be signed on the same day by several persons, the first signer becomes first responsible, and so on till the
insured receive full satisfaction to the value of his loss; the posterior insurers bein& liable only for the deficiency, and that, too,
according to the order of priority. But, in such case, by the ordinance of France, the several insurers, on the same day, shall
contribute rateably to make up the loss; whereas, by the same
ordinance, if the policies bear date on different days, the rate of
contrihution is rejected, and that of priority established; or, in
other words, if the first policy absorb the loss, or amount to the
value of the goods insured, the posterior insurers are not liable,
but shall withdraw their insurances, after retaining a certain per
centage. The solvency of the first insurer to the full value being
assumed, the ordinance is predicated on the principle, that there
remains no property to be insured, and, of course, no risk to be
run. But suppose the solvency of the first insurer should become
doubtful, what course is to be pursued? As this is a risk, it
ought to be provided against; and, accordingly, we find, that
•ome of these ordinances have declared, that such insurer's solvability may be insured. It is obvious, that this is a point of great
delicacy; for, by questioning the solvency of a merchant, you
wound his credit, and, perhaps, cast him into a state of bankruptcy. Most, if not all,*of these ordinances, are of ancient date,
and were calculated for the then existing state of commerce in
the

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

31

the several countries, which formed them. It is, however, evident,
0soo.
that the law merchant varies in different nations, and even in the same nation at different times. The course of trade, local
circumstances, commercial interests, and national policy, induce
to some variation of the rule. The law in this particular, as it
was understood and practised in E.-igland, prior to, and at the
commencement of, our revolution, was different from the rule,
which prevailed in France,Spain, and other countries, under their
local ordinances. A double insurance is, where the same man is.
to receive two sums instead of one, or the same sum twice over
for the same loss, by reason of his having made two insurances
upon the same ship, or goods. In such case the risk must be the
same. This kind of insurance is agreeable to the piactice and
law of England, and is considered as being founded in utility,
convenience, and policy. In the case of Godin and others v. The
London Assurance Company, in February.1758, Lord 31anYfield,
in delivering the opinion of the Court, expressed himself as follows:
" As between them, and upon the foot of commutative justice
merely, there is.no colour why the insurers should not pay the
" insured the whole: for they have received a premium for the
"whole risk.
" Before the introduction of wagering policies, it was, upon
principles of convenience, very wisely estabhlished, 'that a man
" should not recover more than he had lost.' Insurance was con"

sidered as an indemnity onlq, in case of a loss: and, therefore,

" the Satisfaction ought not to exceed the loss. This rule was cal,

culated to prevent fraud; lest the temptation of gain, should
" occasion unfair and wilful losses.
" If the insured is to receive but one satisfaction, natural jus"tice says, that the several insurers shall all of them contribute

"pro rata, to satistl' that loss against "'hich they have all insured.
" No particular cases are to be found, upon this head; or, at
least, none have been cited by the counsel on either side.
" Where a man makes a double insurance for the same thing,
" in such a manner that he can clearly recover against several
insurers, in distinct policies, a double satisfaction, the law cer" tainly says, ' that he ought not to recover doubly for the same
" loss, but be content with one single satiaction for it.' And if
the same man really, and for his own proper account, insut
"the same goods .doubly, though both insurances be not made
" in his own name, but one dr both of them in the name of an" other person, yet that is just the sam.. thing; for the same'per" son is to havw the benefit of both poiicies. And if the whole
" should be recovered from one, he ought to stand in the place of
" the insured, to receive contribttiign from the oiher. who was
" equally liable to pay the whole." 1 Burr. 492.

352.
t

1800.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C.

In the case of Newby y. Reid, at sittings after term, in 1763. 2BI,
Rep.416. the same dctrine is laid down, agreed to,and confirmed.
For "it was ruled by Lord Mansield,Chief Justice, and agreed to
"be the course of practice, that upon a double insurance, though
" the insured is not entitled to two satisfactions; yet, upon the
"first action, he may recover the whole sum insured, and may
"leave the defendant therein, to recover a rateable satisfaction,
"from the insurers."
These cases have never been contradicted, and must be decisive on the subject. The law, as stated in the above adjudications, is recognized by Par and ZMfller, two recent and respectable writers on marine insurances. Such being the law of England, as to double insurances, before and at the commencement
of our revolution, it was also the law of this country, and is so
now. It is of authoritative force, and must govern the present
case. Besides, if the Court were at liberty to elect a rule, I should
adopt the English regulation, which divides the loss rateably
among the insurers. It is the most convenient, equal, and consonant to natural justice, and has been practised upon, nearly half
a century, by the first commercial nation in the world. I am not
clear, that the practice of Franceis not in conformity with this
rule; for it is probable, that they open but one policy, bearing the
same date, though signed at different times, or different policies
of the same date; in either of which cases, by the French ordinance, the insurers contribute rateably to satisfy the loss sustained
by the insured. If so, it is precisely the English and American
rule. Equality is equity. This maxim is particularly applicable
to commercial transactions; and, therefore, the rule of contribution ought to be favoured. The pressure, instead of crushing
an individual, will be sustained by several, and be light. The
result is, that the defendant must contribute rateably to make up
lbe loss of the insured.
Judgment for plaintiff.

