CASES RULED AND ADJUDOED, & c.

161

should not be allowed to produce evidence, to substantiate the 199.
truth of his charge against the said 7ohn A. Hanna; but that

the account of the said Harris and Hanna, as then exhibited
to the Court, should be received and passed. The plaintiff appealed from this judgment; and the cause comes upon the appeQ'

After argument by W. Tilghman and Dallas, for the appellant; and by Ingersoll, for the appellees, the COURT dismissed
the appeal, because it did not appear, that the Orphan's Court
had pronounced a definitive decree.

Ewalt's Lessee versus Highlands. (1)
E

JECTMENT for 400 acres of land at Gerty's Run, across

the Alleghany, the plaintiff claiming under settlement and
survey. From the evidence it appeared, that, on the 30th of
April 1792, the lessor of the plaintiff passed the Alleghany, with
two hands, to make an improvement; that they deadened about
one acre of wood, returned, and, about two weeks afterwards,
went over again, and deadened a little more wood; that a cabin
was erected, with a clap-board roof, eight feet square; and logs
cut out for a door; that a few peach stones, apple seeds, and potatoes were planted; but no other improvements were made; and
neither the lessor of the plaintiff, nor any tenant for him, resided
on the land. On the 9th of April 1794, a survey was made by
7onathan,Leet, the deputy surveyor of the district, under this settlement. On the 10th of February1796, Ewalt leased the land
to P. Smith, who went over the Alleghany, kindled a fire in the
cabin, staid there an hour, and'then removed; but Ewalt, and
his family, constantly resided on the east side of the river; while,
on the other hand, the defendant and his family lived for three
years on the premises.
1st. When Leet's survey was offered in evidence, the defendant's counsel objected; but it was admitted by the COURT, upon

the ground, "that in cases of title, under settlement and improvement of lands, north and west of the rivers Ohio and Alleghany
and Conewango creek, the deputy surveyor must, in the first instance, judge of the right; though subject to the opinion of the
Court and jury."
2d. In delivering the charge, the following sentiments were
expressed,
By the COURT: It is now the province, and the duty, of the
Court and jury, to decide, whether the survey in question, was
properly made, under the act of the 3d of April 1792. (3 State
Laws, Dall. edit.) The act itself has laid down no general rule,
(1)Tried at -Pittburgh,.1fav 1799, before YEATES and SMITH, 7ustkce:.

VOL. IV.

Y

ascertaining

162

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C.

1799. ascertaining what kind and extent of settlement and improve-

will warrant a survey; nor is it the intention of the Court,
upon the present occasion, to lay down any general rule upon the
subject. It may, howev-er, be observed, that personal residence,
must accompany any settlement, on which a survey can be regularly made; unless such danger exists, as would prevent a man
of reasonable firmness, from remaining on the land; and even
then, the animus residendi must appear. Again: though we
agree, that what constitutes a settlement, will essentialUW depend
on the circumstances of each case; we may state, negatively, that
deadening an acre, or two, of timber, planting a few peach stones,
a few apple seeds, or a few grains of corn, can never be deemed
circumstances, amounting, in themselves, to a settlement in any
case, though a cabin should, also, be put up, if the party resides
at a distance, and no tenant actually occupies the land. If these
can give no legal preference, much less will it be deemed a case
of preference, contemplated by the act of assembly, that a man
has set his foot, or his heart, on a tract, and claims it as his own.
It is hardly necessary to add, that we do not think the acts of
the lessor of the plaintiff, in the present case, constituted such an
actual settlement, as authorised a survey; and, consequently, he
has no title to recover the land.

Sment

The plaintiff's counsel, finding the opinion of the Court thus
decidedly against hihn, suffered a nonsuit.
Brackenridge, for the plaintiff.

Woods and Collins, for the defendant-

