SUPREME COURT
or

PENNSYLVANIA.

September Term 1801.
Austyn versus M'Lure.

C ASE,
on a special assumpsit. The declaration contained
three counts, of each of which the following i§ the substance.
1st Count. After stating that a controversy subsisted between
the plaintiff, and one Row-on (a British merchant for whom the
defendant was agent) that they had agreed. to enter an amicable
action and reference, in the Federal Circuit Court, and that the
referees met on the 16th of january 1798; the declaration proceeds, that at the said meeting "it was agreed between Af'Lure
" and Austyn, that in consideration that the said Aityn would
"waive all objections to the referees proceeding to arbitrate be" tween' the said _Rowson and Austyn, and -vould submit the matters in controversy between them to the said referees: as also
"in consideration of the said Austyn's having promised, on de.
" mand thereof made, to give security to pay to the said IV'Lure
, whatever sum the said referees might award to be paid to the
" said Rowson, should the said referees decide the said controversy and dispute against the said Au.tyn, he the said Oi'Lure
"undertook, &c. that he would well and truly pay the said Aus" tyn whatever sum of money the said referees might award to
"be due from the said Rowson to the said Austyn." And the
declaration then avers, "that Austzyn did waive al objections, &c.
" and always was ready to give to the said J1'Lure the said se" curity above mentioned, when he should be required by the
" said M'Lure. And that the referees awarded a balance of
" 145,4 . dollars to be due from Rowson. to Aiustyn, &c."
2d Count. After stating the agreement to arbitrate bet ween
Rorlbson and Austyn, the declaration proceeds, that "in conside" ration that the said Austyn had at the request of the s id
"

.'ILur&

228

CAsEs RULED AlND AiDJUDGED IN THE

1801. "M 'IDLure'promisedand undertook, when he should be tlereunto
U
"required by the said'X2lILure, to procure good and sufficient.
" security for the performance of the award, which should be given
" by the said arbitrators, and for the payment of the sum which
"might be awarded against the said Austyn, the said .IMLure
"did on his part undertake, &c. to the said Austyn, to perform
"the said award on the part of the said Rowson, if it should be
"given against the iaid Rowson by thd said arbitrators, and to
"pay to the said Azcstyn, when thereto lawfully required,
"whatever sum of money might be awarded to be due from the
"said Rowson to the said Austyn, &c." The declaration then
makes an averment of the award as before; and "that the said
"Austyn was always ready and prepared well, &c. to perform
"his said promise and undertaking, and to give good and suffi" cient security, when he shoukl be the eto required, by the
"said J4PLure, &c."
3d Count. After stating the same agreement to arbitrate, the
declaration proceeds, "that in consideration that the said Austyn
"would not object to the 'aid referees proceeding to hear and
"determine the disputes and controversies aforesaid without de"lay, and in consideration that the said referees would so proceed
"without delay, -the said 1MPLure promised; &c. that he would
"perform the award of the referees, &c." The declaration
then avers, "that Austyn did not object, &c. that the arbitrators
" proceeded witiout delay, &c.- and made their award, &c."
On the evidence, it qppeared, that after the referees had met,
more than once, Austyn (whose circumstanceswere considerably
embarrassed) observed, "that he wished to understand, in what
" sitlation he yould be placed, if the award shobld b6 against
owson; for, if it wvent against him, he was present to answer
"the demand; or, should hebe thought insufficient, he was ready
"to produce satisfactory security tq answer it." JP'Lurereplied,
' that he was*Rowsow's agent, and stobd in Rowson's place, or
"stead."- The referees understood, that Austyi's -offer of security was meait, " if it should be required by f'Lure," who did
not ask it, though he never waived it:. and that Z2'RLure's declaration was meant, "that he would himself be answerable in case the
" award was against Rowson." The referees proceeded to hear
and decide upon the *case; and nothing further past between the
parties on the subject of security. Austyn, however, it dppeared;
ad applied to Mr. Gallaudet to be his surety, at some time, in
1797, or 1798, (the'witness could not re'collect when, nor what
passed upon the occasion) and Mr. Gallaudet, having then funds
of Austyn's i.n his hands, said, "that he would have become the
surety, if it had been then further request d."
On these facts, the plaintiff's counsel (Ingersoll,Hallowell, and
rodd) contended, that the special assumption of the defe-ndant
was

229

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

was proved; and that there wasa good legal and equitablecofiside- 1801.
ration to sustain it. In the course of the argument, th~y cited the
following authorities. Cro.-E. 543. 703. 1 Com. Dig. 199. 5 Zkfodi
411, 412. Cro. .E.67. 70. 3 Purr.1666. 1 Com.Dig. 200. 1 Bac.
-br. 267. Com. Rep. 99. 12 Mdod. 457. 1 Pow. Cont. 3,44.
The defendant's counsel (Dallas) contended; -that whatever
might be the impressions, or inferences, of the referees, the declaration of MILure did not, in itself, amount to an express assumpsit,
that it was not a case, inwhich an implied assumpsit could be rais.ed; that, at most, it was a mere gratuitous undertaking without any
possible consideration; beneficial to Alt ure; a nudum pactum, on
which no action could be maintained;. and that ihe consideration
was not proved by the evidence, as it was laid in the declaration.
2 B!. Corn. 445. 3 BL Com. 159. Bull. XA.P. 147. Bulstr. 120.
Dyer, 272. 2 Burr. 1666. Cro. E. 79. 2 Burr.. 1671.
The COURT delivered a charge to the jury, in which they
stated, that the smallest spark of benefit, or accommodation, was
sufficient to create a valid consideration for a promise; and
intifiated that their opinion was d.ecidedly in favour of the plaintiff. (I)
Verdict, accordingly, for the plaintiff.

The CommonWealth versus Dallas, Attorney of the United
States, &c.

QUOwithWarranto.
The President having honoured the defendant
an appointment, as attorney of the United States, for
the Eastern district of Pennsylvania; and the Governor having
been pleased, also, to appoint him Recorder of. the City of Philadelphia; it was thought, by some of the members of the Select
and Common Councils, that .the tenure of these offices, by the
same person, at the same time, was constitutionally incomptible.
And, in order to try the question, 1%1r. HopAinson2, the. solicitor
of the corporation, was instructed to move the Supreme Court,
for leave to file an information, (on the relation of the Select and
Common Councils) (2)in nature of a writ of quo warranto,to in,
quire by what authority the defendant exercised the office of Re(1)BR.CKr"NrTDGE,
tic, seemed to dissent from the opinion oi 'hu
Court, with this remark: "Thc .English books say, that there must be a sp k
of considerati'on (though a single spark is enough) to maintain an action upon
a promise: but, in this case, the Court have blown out the splrk; and I cannot pereivc, whence they. get light sufficient to enable theih to decide fbi
the plaintiil:"
(2) The Court declared, that upon a pioceeding 6f this kind, it was necees
sarv to name the relatur, at %,I,oa instance it mr. inqtitute(d

co'rdr.

