CIRCUIT COURT,
PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

April Term 1796.
Present

IREDELL,

an Associate Judge of the Supreme Coutn.

PETERS, District Judge.

Searight versus Calbraith et aL.
Cadbraith et al. versus Searight.
SEARIGHT agreed, in February 1792, to sell to Calbraith &
Co. a bill of exchange for 150,000 livres tournois, drawn

upon Bourdieu, Chollet, and Bourdieu of Londrk, payable in
Paris, six months after sight; for which Calbraith and Co.
agreed to.pa" at the rate of 17 pence the livre, (making in the
whole, 10,6251. Pennsylvania currency) in their own notes, dated
the 1st of _M1ay, and payable the 1st of Yuly 1792. The bill was,
accordingly drawn and delivered to Calbraith and Co. who indorsed it to George Barclay and Co. of London, by whom it was
presented for acceptance; and on the 27th of March 1792,
Bourdieu, Chollet, and Bourdieu accepted the bill, " payable at
the domicil of Messrs. Cottin, 7onge, and Girardot,at Paris."
George Barclay and Co. afterwards indorsed and forwarded the
bill to G. Olivier, who, on the 6th of October 1792, presented it
Ior payment to Messrs. Cottin, Yonge, and Girardot; and those
gentlemen tendered payment in assignats, which, bj the then existing laws of France, were made a lawful tender, in payment of
debts. Mr. Olivier refused to receive the assignats, by order of
GeorgeBarclayand Co., declaring, at the Same time, that he would
receive no other money than Frenchcrowns; and thereupon each
party protested against the act of the other. The bill being returned under protest for non-payment, Searight, on the one hand, in-,tituted a suit, to recover the sum which Calbraith and Co. had
originally stipulated to pay; and, on the other hand, Calbraith
and

326

CAsgs

RirLED AN2i ADJUD6ED IN THE

1796. and Co. instituted a suit to recover damages for the protest of
L
the bill. And these suits were agreed to be tried together, by
the same jury.
On the trial of the cause, evidence was produced, on both
sides, to ascertain and fix the precise terms of the original contract, for the sale and purchase of the bill of exchange; particularly
as to the stipulation of a rate for estimating the livre; as to the
purchase being made for cash, or on credit; and as to the knowledge and viewv of the parties; relative to the existence of assignats, or the latv of France, making them a legal tender in
paiymcnt of debts. And the great question of fact for decision,
was, whether the parties contracted for a payment in gold and
silver; or tacitly left the medium of payment, to the laws of
France,where the bill was payable? The law arising from the
fact, was discussed at large' according to the different positions
of the parties in interest.
.For Searight, it was shown,
government, that assignats were
dium for the payment of debts,
contract for the bill of exchange:

by the decrees of the Frencli
established as a circulating mebefore, and at the time of, the
Decree of 16 and 17 April 1790.

s. 3. King's Proclamationof 19 April 1790. and this fact being
known, it was contended, that'the purchase of a bill payable in
France,must in itself import an agreement to receive in satis-.
faction, the lawful current medium of that country, unless the
contract expressly provides against it, which, on the present occasibn, was controverted and denied. In support and illustration
of the general position, and its incidents, the following authorities were cited. 2 Burr. 1078, 9. 1083. Day. Bep. 26, 7, G.
Dyer, 82, 83. .4 Com. Dz.
556. B. 7, 8. 2 P. Iins. 88, 89.
1
UP.
his. 696. Prec. Qh. 128. 2 Vern. 395. 2 Atk. 3S2. 465.
Shin. 272. 4 Corn. Dig. 256. B. 8. 4 Vin. Abr. 258; 0. 13.
Holt, 465. DaAis' Rep. 24.. 10 M11od, 37. 2 Br. Chan. 1 Smith's
W-Vealth of Nations, 41. 1 Dall. Rep. 257. 1 Br. Ch. 376. Esp.
N. P. 48. 26. S3 Ils. 211. Bsp. N. P. 140, 1. Doug-. 628. 3 T.
Rep. 683. 554. 3 B. Com. 435. Salk. 130. 126. 12 ,lfod. 192.

Kqd, 63.
For Calbraithand Co. it was contended, that an express contract had been proved to pay the bill in specie; that the verv
terms of the bill import the same understanding of the parties;
that however binding the law of Francemay be on cases between
French citizens, or between Anerican and French citizens, it
did not affect contracts between Americans; that, in legal contemplation, there has been neither a payment, nor a tender of
payment; and that Scarirhthas sustained no damage, nor show'n
any right to recover. I ow.
' on Coktr. 8. 2 Pow. on Contr. 158.
Can. B. of E. 258. Shin 272. 3 Watso,'s Philip 3, 136. 1 Ii.
Palin.

CIRCUIT COURT. PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.
Raym. 735. 1 Lev. 111. .Esp. N. P. 169. Bull. N. P. 156.
6 Mod. 305. 3 Burr. 1353. 2 Blach. 435. 466. 6 Mfod. 306.
Davis' Rep. 75, 6. Shin. 272.
IREDELL, .7ustice. The contract for the purchase of the bill
of exchange is sufficiently proved, as it is laid in the declaration,
by the entry made, at the time, in the books of Calbraithand
(!o. The sole question, therefore, in the cause is, whether the
tender of assignats, in payment of the bill, was a compliance
with that contract? The' notarial protest, not only states the
tender, but certifies, that assignats were awful money of France,
in payment of debts. A notary should, indeed, certify all the
facts that occur, in relation to the protest (not merely the refusal to pay, according to the demand) but, it is doubtful, whether
his assertion would be conclusive, as to the lawfulness of the
money tendered. Connected, however, with other evidence, it is
proper for the consideration of the jury.
It has been objected that as Olivier's demand was, exclusively, for a payment in French crowns, no proof of a tender in any other mode, is necessary; but I do not concur in this
opinion. After- such a demand, it was, perhaps, unnecessary
for the party to exhibit the assignats to Olivier; but the form of
the demand, on one side, cannot dispense with the obligation, on
the other side, to make a tender of payment, agreeably to his
own sense of the law and the contract. The jury must, therefore, be satisfied, that although.the money was not produced and
counted, it was actually in the possession of the party making
the tender.
On. the principal question, I thought, at first, that the risk, as
to the mode of payment, must he run by the holder of the bill;
but the case in .Shin,
er, 272. sanctioned by the high authority of
I-olt'.? name, transcribed, without remark, into CowIin's"excellent digest, and uncontradicted by any other adjudication, must
be respected in every Court of law, and completely effaces the
first impressions of ray mind. Upon examination, too, the dectuine of that book appears to be founded in jiizt and legal prin i.
ples. Every man is bound to know the laws'of his own coulntr,;
but no man is bound to know the laws of foreign countries. In
two cases, indeed, (and, I believe, only in two cases) can foreign
laws aflect the contracts of Aimerican citizens: ist. V/here they
reside, or trade, .in a foreign country; and, 2d. Where the contracts, plainly referring to a foreign country for their execution,
adopt and recogniae the lex loci. The present controversy, therefore, turns upon the fact, wbether the parties meant to abide by
the law of France? And this fact the jury must decide.
As to the damages, if the verdict should be for ,Sear;ght,
though it is true that i. actions for a breach of contract, a jury
should, :n general, give ti%- whole money contracted for and int(re- t

327
1796.

328
1796.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED, &C.
rest; yet, in a case like the present, they may modify the det

~!mand, and find such damages, as they think adequate to the injury actually sustained. But if the jury should in the first action
(Searight v. Calbraith and Co.) find, either wholly or partially
fr the defendant; in the second action (Calbraith and Co. v.
Searight) they should find for the defendant generally.
PETERS, .ustice. The decision depends entirely on the intention of the parties, of which the jury must judge. If a specie
payment was meant, a tender in assignats was unavailing. But
if the current money of Francewas in view, the tender in assignats was lawfully made, and is sufficiently proved.
When the jury were at the bar, ready to deliver verdicts, the
plaintiff in each acti6n, voluntarily suffered a nonsuit. It was
afterwards declared, however, that in Searight v. Calbraith and
Co. the verdict would have been, generall,, for the defendants;
and that in Calbraith and Co. v. Searight, the verdict would have
heen for the plaintiffs, but with only six pence damages.

