SUPREME COURT OT PENNSYLVANIA.

9283

the year 1798; not found in the bank, nor accounted for in any 1803.
public deposit, or application. On these several points, the follow- k-e-0
ing authorities were cited: 3 State Laws, 132. 4 Ibid. 301.
4 Vez.j. 829. Sayre, 115. 2 P. TWns. 287. 1 Bous. & Pull.419.
422, 3 State Laws, 222. s. 9, 10. 2 State Laws, 753. s. 6, 7.
6 State Laws, 490. 3 Dall. Rep. 500. 2 Saund. 411. 1 T. Rep.
295. 293. Bunb. 275. 337. Ilardr.424. 3 Leon. 240. zlfoor, 126.
274. 2 Cha. Ca. 84. Show. 216.

The CoUniT, in the charge, directed the jury, in point of law,
to confine the responsibility of the sureties, to a deficit occurring
during the year, ensuing the date of the bond. But if, from the
evidence, they were satisfied, that there was a deficit, during that
year, they thought, that a verdict should be in favour of the
commonwealth for the amount.
Verdict for the defendants. (1)
.31'Kean, (attorney-general) and Dallas for the commonwealth.
Rawle, for the defendants.
Watson et al. versus The Insurance Company of NYrthi
America.
HIS was an action on a policy of insurance, in which the
declaration was for a total loss. On the trial, it appeared,
that the assured had demanded payment of a total loss, which
the defendants refused to pay; but there was no evidence of an
actual abandonment, or offer to abandon, to the underwriters, before the suit was instituted; and the proof was of a loss in its
nature total. The jury gave a verdict, in favour of the plaintiff,
finding damages, as for a partial loss; subject to the opinion of
the Court, upon a motion for a new trial, to consider two points
reserved: 1st. Whether a previous abandonment, or offer to
abandon, was indispensably necessary, to enable the plaintiff to
recover in this suit? And, 2d. Whether, on a declaration for a
total loss, and proof of a loss in its nature total, the jury can give
damages for less than a total loss?
After argument bv 31 Levy and Lewis, for the plaintiffs; and
by .Moylan, .E. Tilghnan, and Ingersoll, for the defendants, the
COURT (consisting of SHIPPEN, Chief 7ustice, and YEATES and
SMITH, .7ustices) .were of opinion, that the jury might find
damages for a partial loss; although the declaration claimed for
a total loss; and although there was no proof of an actual abandonment, or an offer to abandon, to the underwriters.

T

(1) It may be proper to observe, that Mr. Daynton did not appear, no*"
take dcfende, in this suit: the proceedings to recover from him lmving been
.nstituted on the settlement of the comptroller.

CAsEs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN TiE

084
1803.

*~

-But BRACKENRIDGr, )-.st:ce, said, that he thought there was
suffic nt evidence a' the rzal, to induce the juryv to find an abandoitment; snd, on that ground alone, he concurred, in refi-;ng
a new trial. For, the general ground, on which the opinio'i of
the rest of.the Court was founded, did not appear to him so conclus:ve, aid so sat;_f'Cctory, as it did to them.
I
-Morbn
f
for a ne* trial refused: and judguent ndered on thc
verdict for the plaintiffs.

Williams et al. Executors .ofFisher, versus Pascha.et al.

D

EBT on an arbitration bond. Upon oyer of the bond and
condition, it appeared, that the defendants, as heirs of Yonathan Paschall,had entered into a bond, dated the 14th of September
1796, in the penal sum of 500!., conditioned for the performance
of an award, by arbitrators, mutually named by them and the
plaintiffs, to be made -of and concerning all mattrrs in controversy between them respecting a certain bond givn by the said
Sonathan Payvchall to the said janm.s Fisher (the testator) and
" r.:specting afll accounts, which they-the said heirs of jonathan
"Peachall may exhibit as payments in discharge of the said bond,
" and of and concerning all and all-manner of actions, &c. &8c.
re"spectitg the said bond and accounts, &c." The award, which
was-set forth on the record, after reciting the bond and submission,
concludes that "the arbitrators are of opinion, that the defendants
are justly indebted to the plaintiffs in the suhi of 3101 11s..
41d."
The ieftndants pleaded specially, "that the plaintiffs ought not
", to have and maintain their action aforesaid. against them, be4,cause they say, that the said arbitrators, in making the said
1 award, at the time and place aforesaid, from a mere inadver-t:ncy, error, mistake, and misapprehension, of the law and
right and justice of the case, calculated, allowed, and added,
" the full interest of six per cent. per anngmn,
on the whole
amount of the principal sum mentioned in the bond, submitted
to their arbitrament, for a. long time, that is to say, fbr twenty'bit
years and upwards; although, within the same time, many
" payments and advancts had been made by these defendhnts,
",
and on their account, to the said 7ames Fisher in his lifetime,
" and, after his decease, to the said plaintiffs, on account of the
" said bond, to the full amount of the principal and interest due
ton the said bond; 'but on which payments and advances, from
c a ncre mistake, error, and misapprehension of the law and
right mad justice of thd case, no interest was calculated, or al" lowed, by the said arbitrators, in making and forming their
"said aw:rd: nor were the said payments and advances deduct•d. as by law and right they ought to have-been, from the monies
"

due

