091

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.9

1803.

Crammond et al. Executors of Cay, versus The Bank of kv-

T

the United States.

HE following case was stated for the opinion of the Court:
"On the nineteenth day of August 1793, David Cay and
Andrez Glow, who then carried on business under the firm of
Andrew Clow and company, indorsed a note drawn by Henry
Darroch, bearing that date, for the sum of eight hundred and
fifty-two dollars and eighty-two cents; which note was discounted by the president, directors and company of the bank of the
United States, defendants in this action, and the amount paid to
the indorsors.
" Before the note became due the drawer, and both the indorsors, died of the yellow fever; and notice of non-payment
was duly given to the executors of the surviving partner David
cay.
" On the eleventh of April 1793, Andrew Clow and David
Cay laid a foreign attachment on the property of a certain
7ames Brown in the hands of the defendants. Judgment was
obtained in December term 1793, in the names of the present
plaintiffs, as executors of David Cay, the surviving co-partner.
" A writ of inquiry has been issued and the sum of twenty
five thousand five hundred and forty-three pounds, two shillings
and three pence has been found due to the plaintiffs; judgment
was thereupon entered in the usual form. A scire facias issued
against the defendants as garnishees, in which, after the general
proceedings stated on the record, there was a trial, on the 10th
September 1801, when the jury found for the plaintiffs 3354 dollars; and on the same day, judgment nisi was entered.
" The defendants as garnishees of lames Brown are in possession of thirteen shares of bank stock, and of the dividends
thereon arising and accruing, since the first day of /uly 1801,
which are subject to this attachment. And they have received
payment of two hundred and eighty-four dollars, and twentyseven cents, being a dividend of the estate of Henry Darroch,
the drawer of the said note.
" The question for the opinion of the court is whether the defendants in this action, are entitled to set off against the demands
of the plaintiffs in this action, the sum of . 568_-- being the balance of the note unpaid?
After argument, by E. Tilghman and Ingersoll, for the plaint'ffs; and by Lewis and Rawle for the defendants,
The COURT (absente SnIPPEN, C. .)decided that the set-off
was inadmissible.

M'Culloeh,

