446

CAsEs RULED AxD ADJUDGED IN THEf

1806. alter my opinion, if I should discover, that it was not well founded; or if the opposite opinion should be supported by law, be
more conducive to the general interest, and be more agreeable
gener.ly- to th- intentions of the parties to such contracts.
I have heard it i'nry well argued. If the very well arranged and
able argument of the ingenious young gentleman who began (Mr.
Ser'geant) has not been able to shake the opinion which I had lormed,.I am :i.hIuced to btlieve that it is well founded, on solid principles , law. I must, therefore,adhere toit upon the present occasion;
it not being suggested that there was anvfraudorconcealment on
the part of the vendor, nor an%, knowledge when he sold, of any defect in his title. Had any oi these circumstances occurred, I should
be of opinion, that he would be liable to the amount of the loss.
Although the vendor, on a covenant like that in question, be
liable to damages only to the value at the time of the deed; yet,
he may enter into such a special express covenant, as will make
him liable to the value at the time of eviction, and so much will
the vendee on such event be intitled to. In the present case I
agree, that judgment be entered for the plaintiff for 2979 dollars
14 cents&
. BRACKENRIDGE, Justice. I concur in the decision of the other
judges, for the reasons which have been assigned.

Lv...

Judgment to be entered in favour of the plaintiff, for 2979 dollars 14 cents, and costs.
Lewis, Rawle, and 7. Sergeant, for the plaintiff.
M'Kean (Attorney-Genera) and Ingersoll, for the defendant.

Dutilh versus Gatliff.

T ,Case.

HE following case was stated for the opinion of the Court:
On the 24th of September 1799,the defendant, Samuel
Gatlff, underwrote scven hundred and fifty dollars upon a policy
of insurance on the schooner Little Vill, belonging to 7ohn Duti/k and Thomas Lillibridge, for whom the plaintiff was agent, on
voyage at and from Philadelphiato Ilavanna.
On the 26th of September 1799, the Little Will sailed on her
voyage; from Philadelphia for liavanna, and on the 8th day of
October following, she was captured by three British privateers,
and carried into the port of Nassau, NAev-Providence, where she
arrived on the 12th of the same month.
Upon her arrival in Nassa,, the said schooner was libelled in
the Admiral:y Court, anl on the 9th day o November following,
was regularly .mquitted; and in the who'le, she remained thirty
seven days at Nassau, during toi't, five of which she was in cus:odv of the captors; but the fact of her acquittal .was not known
to

SUPt.: ME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

447

to the plaintiff, until subsequent to th, abandonment hereafter men. 1806.
tioned: although it was known to .7ohn Dtilh, one of the o%%ners,
and supercargo, who was with her at A'j.:sau.
On the 13th day of November, the plaintiff wrote the letter of
abandonment, enclosing the papers therein refcrred to, which
was received by the defendant the same day.
On the 20th November, the said schooner sailed from tNTt9?au
for Havanna, where she arrived on the 21st of the same month,
and sold her cargo, except three boxt-s plundered at Arew-P;-'ridence. Afterwards the said schooner sailed from lavamna for
Philadelphia,where she arrived on the 26th or 27th of February
in the year 1800, with a cargo of sugars, on which freighi becane
due and was received by Stephen Dutil, for the benefit of those
who were entitled to it. Each party refusing to accept the schooner,
she was sold for wharfage, and the whole proceeds of sale applied
to the pai ment thert-of.
The schooner Little ll was American property, as warranted.
The Q.UESTfON for the Court is, whether the plaintiff is ent:tled

to recover as for a total loss?
If the Court shall be of opinion that the loss was total, then it
shall be referred, in the usual form, to three persons, to be appointed by the Court, to ascertain what is due, alter the legal and
just deductions.
If the Court shall be of opinion it was not a total loss, it shall,
in like manner, be referred to three referrees, or any two of them,
to be appointed by the Court, to ascertain the partial loss, to which
the defendant is liable.
7. Ingersoll,for the plaintiff.
TV. Lelvis, for the defendant."'

After argument, the chief justice delivered the unanimous
-opinion of the Court.
TILHMAN, Chief Yustice' On the case stated, the question
submitted to the Court is, whether the plaintiff is entitled to recover for a total loss?
In resolving ihis question, I shall divide it into two points.
1st. Did there ever exist a total loss?
2d. Supposing that there once existed a total loss, has any
circumstance occurred, which excludes the plaintiff from recovering for more than a partialloss?
Ist. The case before us, includes one, of the risks expressly
mentioned in the policy, a tahihg at sea. But it has been objected,

that this taking was not by an enemy; and that when a belligerent
takes a neutral, it is to be presumed that the taking is onh for
the purpose of searching for the property of his enemy, or goods
'ontraband of war; and that, in the end, justice will be done to the
neutral.

448

4ASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1806. neutral. To a certain extent, there is weight in this distinction,
L

but -it must not be carried too far. At the time when the capture
in question was made, the United.States acknowledged the right
of the British to detain their vessels, for the purpose of a re.zsonable search. The bare taking of the vessel, therefore, could by no
means constitute a loss; and if under suspicious circumstances,
she should be carried into port, to afford an opportunity for a
complete investigation, perhaps, even that ought not of itself to be
considered as a total loss. On th;s, however, I give no opinion. But
when the captor, having car-ried the vessel into port, and completed the examination of the cargo and papers, instead of discharging
her, proceeds to libel her as prize, I think the loss is complete.
The property is no longer subject to the command of the owner,
and it is unreasonable that he should wait the event of judicial
proceedings, which may continue for years The case of an embargo is less strong; because, there the confiscation of the property
is not intended, and a temporary interruption of the voyage is all
that, in general, is to be apprehended. Yet the assured is not
obliged to wait the result, but may abandon immediately on receipt of intelligence of the embargo. Not many judicial decisions
have been produced on the point in question. Where principles
are strong, it is sufficient that there have been no decisions to the
contrary. It appears, however, that in the state of Nezv-rork, the
precise point ha5 been determined. In the case of lrumford v.
Chnrch, decided in the Supreme Court of Mew..Torh, .7uly term,
1799, the assured recovered for a total loss, where there was a
capture, -carrying into port, and libelling by a Bratish captor,
although after the abandonment the property was restored. It is
necessary that some general rule should be established, some line
drawn, by which the assured may know at what time he has a right
to abandon. In most cases, the voyage is extremely injured by
proceedings in the Court of Admiralty, and the event is doubtful.
Foir it cannot be denied, that of late years, such extraordinary occurrences have taken place in war and politics, as have very
much affected the principles and practice of foreign Courts of Admiralty. Whatever may be said of the law of nature and nidtions,
and the immutable principles of justice, we see very plainly that
the Courts obey the will of the sovereign power of their country;
and this will fluctuates with the circumstances of the times. I am,
therefore, of opinion, that both by the words and spirit of a policy of insurance, the assured -may abandon, when he receives
intelligence of the libelling of his vessel.
. 2d. This brings me to the consideration of the second point:
Has any. circumstance occurred, which limits the plaintiff to a
recovery for only a partial loss?
It is contended; that such an event has occurred: that the vessel was acquitted by the decree of the Court of Admiralty; that
after acquittal, she proceeded on her voyage, and that one of the
owners

SUPREIE
ICOURT OF PEVINSYLVANIA.

4.49

ownerswas on the spot, and knew of the acquittal. I do not think 1806there is much weight in the circumstance of one of the owners t
being on the spot; because the general agent of all the owners
was in Philadelphia. This general agent effected the insurance,
and conducted all the business with the underwriters, and the
owner, who was in New-Providence,gave him intelligence of what
occurred from time to time, and by no means intended, from any
thing that appears, to restrain him from making an abandonment.
It is true, that the vessel proceeded on her voyage after she was
restored: but it is not stated, nor can the court presume, that any
of the owners acted in a manner inconsistent with the abandonment made by their agent. It was proper, at all events, to pursue
the voyage for the benefit of whoever might be interested h it.
This is the usual practice, and a practice authorized by the policy,
and very much for the advantage of the underwriters.
The only difficulty in the case before the Court, arises from this
circumstance; that before the action was brought, the vessel was
restored, and even at the time of the abandonment, there was a
decree of acquittal, although restitution does not appear to have
been actually made till some days after. The counsel for the defendant have relied much on the opinion of Lord Oansfeld in
the case of Hanilton v. fendez, to establish this principle, that a
policy of insurance, being in its nature a contract of indemnity,
the plaintiff can recover no more than the amount of his actual
loss at the commencement of the action. There is no doubt of
the soundness of the principle: I mean that a policy is a contract
of indemnity. The only question is, at what period the rights of
the parties are to be tested by this principle; whether at the time
of abandonment, or of the commencement of the action. I have
considered attentively the case of Hamilton v. M:endez. It must be
obvious to every one, that the decision in that case -wasperfectly
right. It. was simply this; that a man shall not be permitted to
abandon, and recover for a total loss, when he knew, at the time
of his offer to abandon, that his property, which had been lost, was
restored, and the voyage very little injured. But in reading the
opinion of Lord Iansfield,we find a want of accuracy, with which
that great man was seldom chargeable. Sometimes it appears as
if he thought the period, for fixing the rights of the insurers andinsured, was the commencement of the suit; sometimes the time
of abandonment; and sometimes he even seems to extend his ideas
so far as the time of the verdict. -But, finally, he explicitly declares,
that he decides nothing but the point before him. He seems to
have felt a little sore, at the improper application of some general
expressions used by him, in the case of Goss v. Withers. Anxious
to cut off all pretence for doing the same in Hamilton v. ilfendez,
he has taken too mhuch pains to avoid the possibility of misrepresentation. Hefice his argument, considered in the detail, is not altogether clear and consistent. Upon the whole of this case of -amiltgn
v. Mendez, I think it most safe to confine its authority to the point
actually
'3N
VOL. IV.

450.

CAsEs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1806. actuallydecided,whichwasvery different from that we are nowconL-y-J sidering. Some period mustbefixed fordeterminingthe right of the

parties. To limit it to the time of commencing the actibnwould be
of little service to the insurers; for the law being once so established, an action would be brought in every instance on the first
default of payment. The time of abandonment seems the most
natural and convenient period; because the assured must make
his election to abandon or not, in a reasonable and short time after
he hears of the loss, and the property, being transferred by the
abandonment, can never after be reclaimed by the assured. Want
of mutuality is want of justice. There is no reason why the assured should be bound, but the assurer left free, to take advantage
of events subsequent to the abandonment.
It has been contended by the plaintiff's counsel, that the right
to abandon would not have been affected, even if the property had
been restored at the time of abandonment, because the restitution
was unknown to the plaintiff. As to this, I give no opinion. It is
unnecessary; because it is stated that the vessel remained in the
custody of the captors at the time of abandonment. The defendant's counsel iave urged, that this was the fault of the captain, or
of one of ihe owners, who was at in.v-Providence;because, after
a dcc.ree of acqtuittal, a writ of restitution might have been sued
out. But it not being stated, that there was any fault or negligence in the captain or owner, I do not think that the Court can
infer it. It being stated that the vessel remained in the custody
of tlhe captors, we mlist presume that the custody was legal.
"Whether for the purpose of giving the captors an opportunity of
entering an appeal, or for what other purpose it was that the restitution was delayed, we are at a loss to determine. But, as restitution
was not actually made, and as the plaintiff was ignorant, even of
,he decree of acquittal, his right to abandon remained unimpaired.
.Upon the whole,
loss.are of opinion, that theplaintif is entitled
totalwe
P.? recover for a
Judgment for the plaihtiff. (1)
Moliere's Lessee versus Noe.

EJECTMENT
for a house and lot in Union street, between
Second and Third streets. The plaintiff's title was briefly
this: George Fudge *as seised of the premises in the year 1796;
when 3"loliere, as the assignee of one Weston, instituted three suits
(1) Since the decision of this case, the case of Rhinelanderv. The In:urance
Company oft'ennVyioania, was arguedin the Supreme Courtofthe UnitedState:,
at Wa:hington, in Februaryterm 1807, upon a writ of error from the Circuji Court
ofthe .Pennmyloaniadistrict; andthat Court (consisting of MAnSHALL, Chiefauxrice, CHASE, JOHNSTONE, and LVIVoSTO E, f,7tice3) were ofopinion, Ihat in
the case of neutr, as well as of belligerent, property, the assured has a right
to abandon, and to claim for a total loss, as soon as the vessel is arrested,

T1en
i
tosession of, and carried out of the c..rse of her voyage.

against

