SuPREME COURT 07 PENNSYLVANIA.

27!

ship, cargo, and freight. If it is, then all the patties should con- 1803.
tribut6 to defray it. If it is not (as in the cases of embargo and %
quarantine, where the delay and expense are submitted to, merely
that the vessel may earn her freight) then, the party who alonp.
enjoys the benefit, should alone sustain the loss.
Lewis and Hare, for The plaintiff.
Ingersolland Rawle, for the defendant.

M'Fadden versus Parker et al.
HIS was an action brought against Parker and Wharton, the,
indorsers of a promissory note, instituted at the same time,
that an action was brought against George Eddie, the drawer of
the note. There had been a trial, and verdict for the plaintiff,
in December term 1801, subject to the opinion of the Court upon'
a case stated, involving two questions: 1st. Whether a plea
puis darein continuance, had not been entered too late by the
defendants? And 2d. Whether the new matter pleaded, 'was
sufficient to bar the plaintiff's recovery? After some argument
on the case, at December term 1802, the parties made the folIowing arrangement:
" That the judgment shall remain as a security, and an issue
" be formed and tried under this agreement. That the defendants
" be permitted to enter, at this time, a plea puis darein continu.
"ance, with like effect, as if it had been entered at the day
given for their next appearance, after the new matter occurred.
" That the plaintiff be allowed to give evidence of all facts and
"circumstances to show, that the new matter pleaded ought not
"to operate as a discharge of the defendants. That the de"fendants be allowed to give evidence of all facts and circumstances to repel such evidence, on the part of the plaintiff,
"to show that such new matter ought to operate in their dis" charge; and to establish that the plaintiff has received actual
" value, or security, for the debt, from the drawer of the note.
" And that it be admitted, on the trial, that notice, in due form
" of law, was given to the defendants, by the plaintiff, of the
" non-payment of the aote, on which the suit is founded."
Under this agreement, the defendants relinquished all former
pleas, and entered puis darien continuance, the plea of payment,
with leave to give the special matter in evidence.
T

On the trial of the cause, it appeared, that a testatum ca. sa.
had issued into Northampton county, returnable to December
term 1797, in the case of ZI'Fadden v. Eddie, upon which the
defendant was arested; that, while he was in custody, he gave
a bond and warrant of attorney to confess judgment to the plaintiff,

276

CASEs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN T1E

1803. tiff, intending that the judgment should operate upon lands which
She claimed in Northampton county, but which eventually proved
to be no security, though taken in execution and offered for sale,
on a venditioniexponas; and that, on the 29th of November 1797,
the plaintiff wrote to the sheriff in the following terms: " Sir,
I request and desire that you discharge the defendant, in the
above writ mentioned; he having satisfied me of the debt, interest, and costs;" and that the, sheriff thereupon returned the
Writ, " C. C. Afterwards discharged from execution, by order
of the plaintiff."
The defence was placed on two grounds: Ist. That the holder's
acceptance of a security from the drawer, in satisfaction, was
a release of all the parties to the note; however inadequate the
security accepted; and however defective the title to the property
might afterwards appear. 1 Stra. 691. Noy, 140. 3 Mod. 86.
2 Show.481. Doug. 236, 7.250. 2 Vez. 54. 4 Vez. 824. 832, 3.
Ambl. 79. 1 Dall. Rep. 254. 7 T. Rep. 421. 2d. That the
release of one of two joint debtors, is the release of both; and the
discharge of a defendant from a ca. sa. is tantamount to a payment or extinguishment of the debt. 4 Burr. 2482. 3 Wils. 14.
1 T. Rep. 557. 6 7'. Rep. 525. 2 Bi. Rep. 1237. (1) I Bous. &
Pull. 665. 2 Bous. & Pull. 61.
For the plaintiff it was premised, that there was no negligence
imputable to him; that notice of the non-payment was regularly
given before any indulgence was shown to the drawer of the note;
and that every arrangement with the drawer was, in fact, for
the benefit of the indorsor. It was then contended, 1st. That
considering the relative situation of the parties, before the disZharge from the ca. sa. the holder's acceptance of a security from
the drawer, was not a bar to his remedy against the indorsor.
And 2dly. That whatever might be the operation of the discharge from the ca. sa. as. to the drawer, it did not extinguish
the debt as to the indorsor.
ist. The drawer and indorsor of a promissory note, are not
joint debtors; but are indebted to the holder on separate and
distinct contracts; the former being bound to pay at all events;
the latter only in case of the drawer's default, and of the holder's
giving due notice of it, and pursuing a recovery against the
drawer with reasonable diligence. Kyd, 22. 72, 3. 74, 75. 110.
76. Upon notice of the drawer's default, the indorsor becomes
an absolute debtor, not a silrety; and it is a duty immediately
to pay. If he delays payment, it is a wrong; and he shall not
afterwards take advantage of it. The holder is not bound to
(I) The case in 2 B1. Rep. 1237. was cited by the defendant's counsel, as

the single authority in opposition to their doctrine; but condemned as a bad

precedent, in the worst of Sir William Blackstone's works.

pursue

SUPREtME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

277

pursue the drawer; but, after notice to the indorsor, he may do 1803.
every thing he can to get, or to secdre, his money from the
drawer: provided he does not thereby deprive the indorsor or
his remedy over. I Bous. & Pull. 655. Bull. N. P. 271.
2d. As no misconduct is imputable to the plaintiff. neither can
it be said, that he has received an actual payment, or satisfaction, for the debt. The bond and warrant of attorney were
obviously taken as a collateral security; and not with an intention to release the obligation of either of the parties to the note.
Doug. 231. But even upon the strictest application of the rule
of law, the arrest of one man upon a ca. sa. cannot be deemed a
satisfaction for another man's debt, The drawer and the indorsor cannot (like co-obligors or partners) be sued in the same
action; and when judgments are obtained against them in separate actions, aft.fa. may issue on one judgment, and a ca. .ra.

upon the other. All the authorities, cited for the defendants, are
in cases of a joint ca. sa. But the authorities for the plaintiff are
express, that it must be an actual, not a constructive, payment
by one debtor, to discharge another debtor, upon a distinct contract, though for the same sum. And the release of the debtor
in execution, hwever it may affect the right and the remedy of
the plaintiff in the execution, cannot affect the right or thi reniedy of any other person. Tidd. 412. Hob. 59, 60, 61. 1 Wils.
46. 2 P. Rep. 1235. 4 T. Rep. 825. Thus, ZFadden, the
holder of the note, may sue Parker and WIharton, the indorsors;
and they, having paid ihe note, may sue Eddie, notwithstanding
his discharge from the ca. sa.
The COURT, in the charge, left it to the jury to consider,
whether the plaintiff had accepted the bond and warrant of attorney, in satisfaction of the debt, due upon the note; and
thereupon intended to release both the indorsors and the drawer.
The jury, upon this charge, gave the plaintiff a verdict for
the amount of the note, with interest.
But on a motion, for a new trial, the counsel of the defendants, urged, that the extinguishment of the debt, by the discharge of Eddie from the ca. sa. was a point of law clearly in
their favour; on which they cited additional authorities, and
reasoned more at large, than at the trial; that the agreement
under which the" issuc was formed, did not waive the benefit of
the strict rule of law; and that the court, instead of leaving the
case to the jury, ought to have charged expressly in favour of
the defendants. 3 BI. Com. 390. 2 T. Rep. 120.
The counsel for the plaintiff answered, that the verdict was
conformable to the real justice of the case; that the agreement,
under which the issue was formed, was meant to bring the case
before

278

CAsEs RuLE5 AND AD3Mt1XD,

&e,

1803. before the jury upon its equitable circumstances; that the Court
L
fairly left the decision to the jury, upon the genuine principles
of the agreement. Doug. 248. (236.) 250. 2 Salk. 575. 8 T.
.Rep. 168. 2 T. Rep. 4,. 4 T. Rep. 468. 1 Salk. 116. 2 Salk. 646.
and that even on the strict point of law, the plaintiff was entitled
to a verdict; none of the opposite cases applying to separate
debtors, on distinct contracts, who could not be sued. as joint
debtors.
By the CouRT. The case has been well argued at the -bar;
and the Judges have enjoyed an opportunity to consider it,
with more deliberation, than could be bestowed upon it, during
the.trial.
We are now convinced, that the principal point of law, should
have been differently presented to the jury. It is clearly in
*favour of the defendants; and ought to have been so stated in
the charge.
The construction of the agreement, however, is a distinct
subject for consideration. The counsel, who drew th6 agree.
ment, are essentially at variance upon its design and meaning;
and the Court have not formed (nor is it nec'ssary, at this time,
that we*sh6uld form) a decided opinion upon the subject. The
intention of the parties to the instrument, will be, properly, left
to the jury on the new trial; which, for' the reason already
assigned, it is our duty to award.
New trial awarded.
For the plaintiff, Ingersolland Dallas.
For the defendants, E. Tilghman'and Hallowell..

