410
i

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED I'l THr

180L. presumption, which length. of time might have created. For if he
had paid, he would have been entitled that moment to a patent:
the one was the necessary consequence of the other. Men might
long forbear to call for this confirmation of their titles, from the
inconvenience of paying the consideration, but that he should pay,
and not go on to perfect his title, is altogether improbable, and certainly not to be presumed; but if the jury could presume any.thing
from length of time, yet that presumption may be repelled and in
this case is.
The deed of 1771, from Pence, the grantee, to Shultz, proved
that he had not paid, and the deed from Shultz's executors to
Stump, in 1794, that it was not then paid. The defendant, therefore , has not a legal title to authorize a verdict in his favour; but
he has an equitable title, and may compel a grant, upon paying,
.or tendering, what is due to the plaintiffs, with costs of this suit.
And if the plaintiffs should then refuse, this court sitting in equity,
would compel them, at the expence of paying costs. In the state
court, I understand, the jury may make a kind of special or conditional finding, in consequence of the having no court of equity.
But this court having equitable jurisdiction, your verdict must be
general.
Verdict for the Plaintiffs. (1)

Guppy et at. versus Browii.
COMMISSION had issued to four commissioners, jointly,
to take the depositions of witneses'in England. It was executed and returned by three of the commissioners only, two of
whom, however, were of the defendant's nomination.
A

At the trial of the cause, the defendant's counsel objected to
the feading of the depositions; and cited 1 Bac. Abr. 202. 2 Inst.
The plaintiffs' counsel observed, that the commission had not
ssued in the'usual form; but insisted that as the defendant's
(1) As some of the persons, interested in the ejectments brought for lands
n
1S
*n,etbu)y manor, had purchased from the state; and as the state would
be Ciatued to all arrears of purchase money, if the proprietary title should not
be establishied; the legislature had authorised the governor to employ counsel
to ass:st the counsel of the defcudants. After the decision of the above case,
'the l1eislature apprinted 'Iamez Rzz and 7arnez Hopline, Esqrs. to take defence in the next ejectment, .Pehn'. lessee v. Groff,-u hich was tried in .Arilterm
1806; and upon the same charge, the same verdict was given. The defendant's
counsel, having tendered a bill of"exceptions, to the charge of the court, arrangeme.ats were made to obtain a flnal decision in the Supreme C-urt, upon a
%writ
of error. It appears, however, from the journals, that the legislature is not
disposed to interfere any further; and, I have been informed, that terms of
-4omprpos" e have been proposed, and aecepted, by the parties.

commissioners

CIRCUIT COURT, PEVNSYLVANIA DISTAICT.

411

commissioners had attended, the objection could not be maintain- 1805.
ed on his part.
By the COURT: The objection is fatal. The commissioners do
not derive their authority from the parties, but froma the Court;
and as it is a special authority, it must be strictly pursued. The
power given to four, cannot be well executed by three, commissioners.
The evidence over-ruled.
In'crsol, and Tod, for the plaintiffs.
'ranklin, and .Dallas, for the defendant.

