403

SUPRE ZE COURT OP PENNSYLVANIA.

lingly throws gold and diamonds into the sea. But was he willing 1806.
to encounter the storm, which produced this (lire necessity?
General average always arises fiom actions produced by necessity.
In the case before us, there was a capture, re-capture, and decree
of salvage. The master and supercargo conented, under these
circumstances, to a measure, which produced a general benefit.
They surely exercised as much volition, as if they had thrown
half the cargo over board in a storm. Suppose they had stood still,
and suffered the ship and cargo to be sold, the underwriters would
then have had to answer for the -wholefreight. It is better lbr
them lo be subject to a general contribution.
We are of opinion that the plaintiff is entitled to recover on this
.olicy, according to his demand.
Lervis, .Rawle, and .7.Sergeant, for the plaintiff.Of'Kean (Attorney-General) and Ingersoll,for the defendant.
Donath et at. versus The Insurance Compaiy of North
.America.

T

HIS cause was argued, in M1arch term last, on the following
case, stated for the opinion of the Court.
Case. (1) The plaintiffs were in advance for money lent, and
goods delivered, to DoA Alvarez Calderon, according to their account stated, (including commissions and premium of insurance)
to the amount of 13,750 dollars;'and addressed to-the defendants
the orders of insurance, dated respectively the 22dof .une and 6th
of 7uly 1799, in these words:
" Philadelpbia,June 22d 1799.
" President and Directors of the
" Insuranc.e Company of Worth America.
"GENTLEMEV,

," Agreeably to your answer, we request you to insure 13,750
"dollars, on sundry effects, shipped on board the schooner Daphne,
"captain Ripley, bound for Iavanna.
, This insurance is declared to be made by us, for and in be"half of Don Alvarez Calderon, king's attorney in the island of
Cuba, on goods, or rather effects, !hey not being merchandize
"intended for trade, but wholly his property, consistinig in cloth'_ ing and wearing apparel, library, a vast quantity of house furni"ture, coaches, &c. amounting together to 18,733 dollars, of
"which we only cover the above sum of 13,7,50 dollars, the same
"being the amount of our advances, inclusive of premium,
"commission, &c. at and from Philadelphiato Havanna,on board
(1) The case was stated win a reference to the various documents, re;ad in
evidence; but it is necessary to incorporate the substance ofthem here, with the
statement.

"the

464

CASES RULEX

M'D
AM DJUD.En "IRTI!

1806. " the Daphne, an American bottom and property, and the returin
11from Havanna to Philadelphiaon board the same schooner or
" any other American vessel, but if remittance should be made to
" as in bills of exchange for the whole or in part of the sum so
" insured by us, a return premium of 7?per cent.,.aall be allow" ed us, on the amount that may be remitted in billsi
" We further warrant that Don Alvarez Calderonhas all neces" sai-v passports and protections for himself, sui-, and property,
"from th British, Spanish and French ministers, which we have
caused to be registered in Clement Biddle's office."
"

"Piladephia,.uly 6th 1799.
President and Directors of the
41Insurance Company of lorth Anmerica.

"GENTLEMEN,
" Please to

cancel the policy of insurance effected on good"or effects, shipped by us, on board the schoone- Daphne, for
c account of Don Alvarez Calderon, for 13,750 dollars, as -the
" same hav- been re-landed and loaded on board the brig Currier,
" captain IKiever, on which you will please to transport the
"same insurance, and on the same conditions.
" Yos. Donath & Co."
Previously to these brders, the plaintiffs had entered into an
agreement with Don Alvarez Calderon, dated the 11th day of
Yune 1799, of which the material passages were these:
" The said .os. Donath & Co. contract to furnish a suitable
' vessel for the passage of the said Don Andres Alvarez Calderon,
"his suite, and goods and effects, from this pc.rt of Pliladelphia
"cto Havanna. To procure insurance'to be made of the goods and
" effects of the said Don Andres.Alvarez Calderon,forthe said voy." age., to. the amount of commissions, premium and charges, and
" the said goods and effects inclusive, and to comprehend in like
" manner the sums of tito thousand dollars, advanced him by Ste;
"phen Dutilh,suchinsurance to be made at and from Philadelphia
" to Havannaandat and from thence back to this port of Philadeldphia,'andthe policies of insurance and authority to recover the.
,'
same, in case of loss, to remain and be vested in the said YoU seph Donath and company."
" And the said Andres Adlvarez Calderon further covenants,
"promises and obliges himsef to the said Yoseph Donath and
"company, to pay to the said Joseph Donath and company, or
their correspondent at Havanna, the full amount of said sums
"c so to be by thein advanced, and also for the freight and other
sums to he by him paid as aforesaid at Havanna, in specie, to be
." loaded on board any vessel at Havanna that they may require,
"clear of duties or risque, or at the option of said Andres
,Alvpres- Calderon, to pay the said amount in sugars, or. other
" produce.
'.

465

SUPREM E COURT or PENNSYLVANIA.

produce, in which last case, all the freight, charges, commissions 1806.
"at Havanna, and risk of the said sugar s or other produce of the
"said island of Cuba, shall be at the charge of the ,said Andres
Alvarez
-'
Calderon, so that the nett proceeds thereof, after deducting all charges, freight and insurance, as the same shall
"produce at philadelphia,shall be to the credit of said Andres
hAlvarez Calderon, instead of the sum paid at Havanna in specie.
" And it is declared and agreed by the said parties hereunto, that
" in case the said vessel should be captured, taken or lost on her.
" said voyage, that the insurance to be recoiered on the goods
" and effects, to be sh:.pped and insured as mentioned in the third
"article before mentioned, shall be applied by the said Joseph
C Donath and company, to the discharge of their advances, and
" in abatement or acquittance for so much of the bills or drafts
" to be drawn by the said Don Andres Alvarez Calderon for the
said sums, so to be paid and advanced for his use by the said
"7oseph Donath and company, as aforesaid."
On the 6th day of July 1799, Joseph Ball duly underwrote
the p6lity for the defendants, and affixed their corporate seal, by
which they insured goods on board the Currieroutwards, and on
board her, or any other good American vessel home, at and from
Philadel5hiato the Havanno and back to Philadelhia,valued at
13,750 dollars, for a premium of 20 per cent. The property out
was warranted to belong to Don Alvarez Calderon; and that h'e
had all necessary passports and protections for himself, suite, and
property, from the British, Spanih. and French, ministers, resident in the United States. It was, also, stated in the policy, that
the property h6mewards was to be shipped by Don Alvarez Calderon, or by his order, for account of the plaintiff; but if the remittance was made in bills of exchange, and not goods, there
should-be a return of 7., per cent. of the premium. The premium
was duly paid; the warranty in the policy contained was complied
with and performed; the policy has always remained in the possession of the plaintiffs; and the goods were shipped and consigned, as specified in the invoice and bill of lading, to wit, by Jo.eph Donath & Co. "for Don Alvarez to Peter Blain, or his
" asesigns,' at the Havanna. On the 19th June, and 8th J7uly 1799,
the plaintiffs wrote two letters to Peter Blain, the plaintiff's agent
named in the bill of lading, inclosing a copy of the contract with
Don Calderon, and desiring him to secure payment before the
goods were delivered; to which letters they received answers,
dated respectively the 18th and 31st of October 1799, stating the
refusal of Don Calderon to pay the drafts,, and his desire that the
plaintiffs would seek redress from the underwriters. The brig Currier, in the policy named, sailed from Philadelphia, on the 10th
of July 1799, on the voyage insured, with the property insured
on board; and, while lawfully prosecuting the voyage, to wit, on
the 31st of July 1799, she was captured by the Britishprivateer

VaL. IV.

.3Q

schooner

M'6
1806.
'-.-'

CAsEs RULED jLD ADJUIDeED

n

TIE

schooner Charlo e, captain Thrift, and carried into Aew-Providence, on the 3d day of August ensuing, where Yames MIKeiver,
master of the said brg, entered a protest. .The brig and cargo were libelled in the Vice Admiralty Court, 'at Ne'w-Providence, and were both condemned, except the property in the
policy insured, touching which the following proceedings were
had at New-Providence.
On the 26th of August 1799, Don Calderon petitioned the
Court of Vice-Admiralty; stating that he was possessed of passports from the British'minister, &c., and praying restitution of
bi" effects. On the 2dof September, the Judge.pronounced sen.
tence, which, so far as it relates to the present question, expressed
a doubt upon the corisfruction of the British minister's passport;
and directed an inquily to be made, whether it was the minister's
intention to protect the effects of Don Calderonj to the extent
claimed. (1) On the 12th Qf September 179 , all the goods were
restored
()The opinion of the Judge of the Court of Vice-Admiralty (Judgekelsall)
upon the general character and operation of diplomatic passports, appears suf.
ficiently ".teresting,to justify its insertion at lefigth.
"-Drzesm. -1"The only shipment in this vessel, that has occasioned me any
It hesitatn, is that of Don Alvarez.' This gentleman is a Sfianith subject, but
&to exempt his property (of the value of eight or ten thousand dollars) from
"cthe aulual consequence of capture, he has -produced a paper, which as
" given rise to no-small argument and discussion. It ii a letter of licence from
"his maJesty's amnbassador with the American states; Mr. Litton, by which
"the comimanders of vessels of war are requested to allow Don Alvarez to
'8 pass, withhis domestics, baggage, an'd effects. It is said, that this paper,
." from its language, not being mandatory, never was designed by M'. Litton

c to be viewed as a safe conduct; that it is merely an expression of civility, a
"s complimentary.act, intended to procure to Don Alvarez polite treatment, and
ft to protect imself, servants, baggage, and the customary viaticr,or articles
te necessary for his use during the voyage, and no more; 'but by no means, to
"cenable him to carry furniture, carriages, nd other goods, to so great an
carount as the property in dispute; that the document is -not in the usual
Intl liroper form; and, finally, the right of ambassadors, to protect by their
j1icence!s'more than has been herb conceded to them, has been contested, on

ti 'ground, that it would defeat the operation of the prize act.
cl The safe conduct of ambassadors will not, I apprehend, be often the sub:c ject 81 oonsideration here; and still more rarely'will it happen, that there
" will be 'any greater occasion to dispute, or deny, the privilege claimed, than
"there exists in the present If, however, the right of ambassadors to grant
. licences, whereby enemy, or contraband goods, may be protected from cap,
,€ tureduring their passage through the sovereign's doifiinions (which isthe caae
demore especially alluded to by Blackstone) (1) or even to the territories oI'ie
" enemy, which is the case !,ere, be admitted in its fullest extent; still itmust
ccbe granted, that to insure proper respect to his act, attentibn should be
s: paid-to the forms prescribed 'or recommended by the writers on the law of
"nations; I mean, as Vattell e4resses it, to enumerate, and categorically ex"press, every thing intended to be comprehended. Here no enumeration has
been made; but, instead thereof, a word has been inserted, of an import so
general, that it may be construed to include anything and every thing, of any
"amount and of any kind.
"I may, I trust, without derogating in thd least fi'om the respect due to his
ia oxeellency, the ambassador, be permitted to doubt, whether, whenhe wrote

(1) 1 vol.-Cons. 259,

260.

SUPiREME COUkT

Or PENNSILVANIL

restored to Don Calderon, on his giving security, to abide the 1806.
Enal decree, except a trunk of valuable articles, which had been %
lost after the capture; and for which the judge refused to make
the captors responsible.
. The property received by Don Alvarez Calderon, in con.
sequence of. those proceedings, was carried by him to- the Ha.
vanna, but never delivered to the said Blain, in the bill of lading
mentioned, nor accounted for to the plaimtiffs.
On the 31st .dayof August and the 1st of October 1799, the
plaintiffs abandoned the property insured to the defendants, statthey had received
ing in'the former letter, particularly, that ",
" orders from Don Calderon to do so;" and thereupon demanded
payment for a total loss: which the defendants refused to pay,
but offered to 'pay an average loss on the goods damaged and
ptolen. Don Alvarez Calderon has not paid to the plaintiffs the
whole, or any part of their advances before mentioned: and no
roperty insured on the homeward passage, has been shipped by
im or his order, for account of the plaintiffs, nor hath any part of
it is susIt the passport, h really meant to give it the full purport of whiclt
"1,ceptible.
t"The situation of Judges of the Vice-Admiralty Courts is well .known to
•Mr: Liston. If, on the one hand, they are bound to respect'the.rzght ;r
"ambassadors, there are, also, duties to fulfil,towards those who claii the
"benefits of the prize act. And hence I do ionclude, that in extending the
"privileges or immunities of a passport, bey9nd what is commonly done, he
"would have adopted a term of more precisd and determinate signification,
than the one he has used. Besides, it is very ;evident that Mr. Bond, thi con"sul, who,'I dare sav,'dlid see this licence, and who ought, and, I prisume)
here,, what the ambassador really intenddoes, know bettr than any person
I
"ed, takes no notice whatever of "effect. " but confines his consulsr licence;"or pass, which he granted eight days subsequent to that of Mr. gListon, -to
"the persons and baggage of Don Alvarez and his servants. Don dlvarez
"himself, too, by insuring so caxefully against capture, seinis to have enter.
"tained a different opinion bf this safe-conduct at Philadelphia, f-em thai
"which he holds in this place. I will not, though, take upon me t6 say., that it
is not possible, but that Mr. Liston might have been aware of thepurpose to
"which his passport was-intended to be applied; and that he might have
"deemed this a fit occasion, for the exercise of the extraordinary powers at.
"tached to his station and character. If this prove to be the case,Isha dismiss
"the libel, and leave the captors, if they thiuk themselves aggrieved, to ieek"redress elsewhere. Ay duty, therefore, in the first place, is to be satisfied of
"-hat was the ambassador's meaning. For this purpose, I decree, that ars
" exact enumeration of the articles (exclusive of the baggage, the books, and
"every thing necessary for the prosecution of his voyage, which, if it has not
"been done, I direct may be immediately given up) that have been shipped
bv Don .Alvarez, be made outs and that it be transmitted to his excellency th
"anbassador, with a request that he would certify to this Court, whether any,
"or what, things therein specified, were intended by him to be protected from
"capture by his licence. In making this enumeration, I trust that the great"est care will be used to prevent injury; and that the same be done in thli
"presence of some person appointed bythe claimant."(1)
(1) Upon receiving Mr. Ligon's explanatory certificate,.the whole of the pro.
perty was ordered to be restored absolutely.

468

CABEs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN TIlF.

x806. the remittances in the policy m.entioned, been made in bills of
exchange.
The questions for the opinion of the Court are,
1st. Whether, under all the circumstances, the plaintiffs had an
insurable interest in the property, mentioned in the policy, out
and home, or either? 2d. Whether, if they had such interest, it
is sufficiently insured by this policy, to entitle them to recover in
the present action, as for a.total loss? 3d. Whether, if they are.
not entitled to recover as for a total loss, they are entitled to recover as for a partial loss, and to whu amount? 4th. Whether
they are entitled to a return of premium on the return voyage,
and to what amount?
It is further agreed, that the judgment of the Court shall be
rendered by them, in such form and for such sum, if any, as
shall be best calculated to effectuate their opinion upon the foregoing questions.

.

The cause was argued in March term 1806, by Levy and
Dallas, for the plaintiffs; and by Ingersoll and Hopkinson, for the
defendants.
For the plainiffs, it was insisted: Ist. That the advance and
lien, gave them an insurable interest in the effects of Don Calderon; Park, 282. 1 B!. 103. 1 Burr. 4,89. Par,, 267. 269.
8 T. Rep. 154. Park, 11. 3 Burr. 1410. Parh, 270. 8 T.
Rep. 13. 1 Bos. & -Pull.315. 323. 216. 6 T. Rep. 478. 483.
1 Marsh.'81. 91.'111, 112. 2 Bos. & Pull. 240. 75.;'that the
nature of theii interest was fully communicated to the defendants; that. they had taken every precaution to secure the lien, by
retaining the possession of the effects, and consigning them to
their agent at the Havanna, to be delivered to Don Calderon, only
upon re-payment of the money advanced; that the capture took
from the plaintiffs the 1ossession of the property', and, with it,
their lien; thereby constituting a total loss, on which they had a
right to abandon; 2 Burr. 694.- 2 Emerig. 188. 194, 5. 3 Poth.
B, 3. c.S. aq. 1. s. 3. that the restitution to Don Calderon was
not a restitution to the plaintiffs; but, on the contrary, was destructive of their possession and lien; and that although the goods
were, in fact, afterwards carried to the Havanna by Don Calderon, they were never delivered at the port of destination, to the
consignee of the plaintiffs, within the spirit hnd meaning of the
policy, any more than if they had been carried thither by the captors. 2d. That the defendants have. virtually acknowledged the
right of the plaintiffs to recover, by offering to pay an average loss
upon the property damaged and stolen. 3d. That, at all events,
the policy contemplates two distinct adventures; to& wit, an outward cargo, and a remittance, either in cargo, or in bills of exdhange (providing, in the latter case, for an abatement of seven and
a half

SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

469

a half per cent. premium) and as no risque has been run of either 1806.
kind, upon the return voyage, there should be a proportional return of premium. Park, 367. (5 edit.) 377, 8. 3 Burr. 1237. '2
Mfarsh. 564. 567. 569. 561 to 571. 1 Bos. & Pull. 172.
For the defendants, it was insisted, 1st. That their contract was
with Don Calderon, through the agency of the plaintiffs; that the
plaintiffs never had an insurable.interest, or, if they had, they have
not insured it; for, the insurance is made on the effects of Don
Calderon, on his account and risque; and although they are consigned to Blain, at the Havanna, it is expressly "for Don Calderon;" 1 Ld. Raym. 271. 12 Mod. 156. that there was no idea of
a lien,- in the origin of the transaction, but a perfect reliance on
the honour of Don Calderon; that although two persons may insure distinct interests in the same subject, it must be upon distinct contracts, and for distinct premiums; and that Don Calderon,
in case of a legal loss, might have sued on the policy, though he
had paid his debt to the plaintiffs; and thus if they might sue,
their debt not being paid, two interests would be insured by the
same contract, for a single premium. 2d. That the defendants
had complied 'vith their contract, the property beingrestored to,
and remaining in, the possession of its owner, for whom the insurance was made, at its port of destination; and that the insurance wits against the perils of the sea, and of 'war,but it was
not an insurance" against the misconduct of Don Calderon, in retaining, the property, without paying the debt.. 3d. That the
voyage was entire; for an entire premium of twenty per centurn,
varying the amount of the, premium, but not the entirety of the
voyage, according to the manner, in which the returns should be
made. Park. 440. 377. 2 Marsh. 572. Doug.. 751.
The cause was held under advisement, until the 17th of Yantfary 1807, when the opinions of the Judges, .who had heard the
argument, were delivered.
TILGHMAN, Chief Yustice. My opinion on the first point will
be rendered unnecessary, by the opinion which I shall deliver on
the second point; because, granting that the plaintiffs possessed an
insurable interest, I am of opihion that it clearly appears from the
facts stated, that they ordered no insurance, and that no insurance
was made for them, in any other capacity, than as agents of Don
Alva-ez Calderbih consequently, they cannot recover for a total
loss, as Don Alvarez Calderon has accepted that part of the property which was saved, and thereby made his election to claim
only for a partial loss. The instructions of the plaintiffs ior effecting
the inshrance, were to insure expreslqfor ard on beha jr
of Don
Alvarez Calderon. It is true, they insured oily 13,750 dollars,
although the whole effects of their principal! amounted to 18,733
dollars;

M70

CAsEg IULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1806. dollars; and they give the reason, that 13,750 dbllars covered
-rthe amount of their advances, including premium, commissiobns,
&c. The defendants might well suppose, that the plaintiffs were
to hold this policy for their own security, in case.of loss, although
the insurance was made for Don Alvarez Calderon; and-that this
was the fact, appears from the agreement, dated the 11th of Ylune
1799. But it is not stated, that this agreement wis disclosed to
the defendants: on the contrary, there is one circumstance which
goes far towards convincing me that no such disclosure was made.
It is this: By the agreement, the outward cargo was to b6 at
the rish of Don Alvarez Calderon; but the memorandum at the
foot of the policy, contains a covenint,thatthe inward cargo should
be shipped on account of the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs contend,
that they had a lien on the'goods, and that it so appears by the
bill of lading, and their letter, to Mr. Blain. But, in my opinion,
those papers prove directly the contrary. By the bill of lading, the
gobds are deliverablefor Don Alvarez Calderon, to P. Blain; so
that DonAlvarez Calderonmight have compelledBlain to give him
possession of the goods, before the expiration of the fifteen days,
which were allowed for payment of the plaintiffs' demand. The
plaintiffs, in their first letter to Blain, declare that the respectability of Don Alvarez Calderon's characterwas a sufficient guarantee, for the honourable execution of his agreement. And even hi
their second letter, although they began to apprehend difficulty
from the capricious temper of the Don, they gave no intimation
of any expectation, that their agent should hold the goods till he
received payment of their demand.
Suppose .DonAlvarez Calderonhad paid the plaintiff's account;
can it be contended, that he could not recover for his own use,
on this policy, the amount of the loss, that he has actlally sustained? And, if he could, does it not inevitably follow, that the plaintiffs cannot recoverfor their own use. If they can, one insurance
effected for one premium, may be made to cover two different interests, vested in different persons. Besides, th. plaintiffs attempt,
most unreasonably, to make the defendants answeiable for a risk,
which they never meant to run; that is, for the integrity and good
conduct of Don Alvarez Calderon. And after that gentleman has
received the property, which was restored to him by the Britislh
Court of Admiralty, the defendants are called on to answer for
it, as being lost. To render the impropriety of .this demand the
more complete, the plaintiffs made the abandonment, on which
they f9und their claim, expressly b6!orderof Don Alvarez Calderon. Nothing can be clearer than ti at the plintiffs, throughout
the whole of the transaction of thislasurance acted not for themselves, but as the agents of Don AA1arez Calderon.
3d. On the third point there is no difficulty. Undoubtedly, the
plaintiffs may recover for the par tiall loss, s stained by Don Alvarez

S.UPREIE COURT OF PENNSYLVAM4

4.71

iez Calderon. The defendants do not deny it. I presume the 1806.
parties can easily adjust this loss. Indeed, I understood so, from
what fell from Mr. Levy, in the course of his argument.
4th. The last question in this case, is, whether the plaintiffs
are entitled to' a return of any part, and how much, of the premium? The general rule is, that'where'the voyage is entire, and the
risk has once commenced, there shall be no return of premium. But
when, by the course of trade, or the agreement of the parties, the
voyage is divided into distinct parts; and, on one of these parts, no
risk has been run, there shall be an apportionment of the premium, and part shall be returned. A voyage may be entire, tH'ough
the ship is to go to a number of different places, and to take in
different cargoes. But if, in the contract of insurance, there are
certain contingencies introduced, which, at certain periods of the
voyage, may operate so as to make the insurance void, it has been
considered, that, in such cases, the voyage may be supposed to
have been divided, in the contemplation of the parties, into dis.
tinct parts. As in the case of Stevensonz v.-Snow, which was an
insurance of a ship "it and from London to Halifax, warranted
to depart with convoy from Portsmouth." The convoy was gone,
before the ship hrrived at Portsmouth; and by the judgment of
Lord Mansfield, and the whole Court of King's Bench, there was
a return of part of the premium. In the/case before us,.it'apo
pears to have been in contemplation of the parties, that on the
voyage from the Havanna home, there Imight be contingencies,
which would either avoid the policy, for that pah 4f'the voyage,
or lessen the risk, so far as to require a part return. of premium.
The goods shipped on the outward voyage, are warranted to be
the property of Don Alvarez Calderon. It was douotful, whether
any goods would be shipped on the inward voyage. If a remittance was made in bills of exchange, there was to be a return of
seven and a half per cent., part of the premium. If goods were
shipped, they were warranted to be on account of the plaintiffs.
It seems to be the spirit of this agreement, that the voyage may
be divided; and that~if no goods were shipped, there should be a
return of seven and a half per cent.
On the whole of the case, I am of opinion, that the plaintiffs
are entitled to recover for a partial loss, and a. ,etum premium
of seven and a half per dent., with interest from the commence
ment of the action I do not think, that'they should be allowed
interest for a longer time, because they demanded more than they
were entitled to, and have put the defendantS' to the expense of
contesting,their claim for a total loss.
YEATES, Yustice, being indisposed sent his c/pinion, in writing,
to the Court, and it was read by the prothonotary. Hd concur.
red in the decision, that the plaintifh;, Were entitled to recover
a partial loss, for the goods lost an4 damaged; but he consi.
dered

.472

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED, &c.

1806. dered the voyage as entire, .and, consequently, was opposed to
~ the claim, for a return of premium.
SMITH, and BRACKENRIDGE, 7zstces, concurred, generally,
in the sentiments delivered by the Chief Justice.
And judgment was entered for the plaintiffs, accordingly; the
quantum to be calculated by the parties. (1)
(1) On the question of interest, Dallas took the liberty of suggesting to
the Court, after the opinions were delivered, that the practice had uniformly
been, to allow interest on the amount actually recovered, upon the expiration
of 30 days, after depositing the proofs of loss; and that, on principle, the un.
derwriters could-only discharge themsel~es from interest, or costs, by a ten.
der, or payment into Court, ot the sum due. But the Chief Justice answered,
that the subiect had been considered, and was now decided.

