SVPREME.COURT OF THE UNITED "STATES.

in Error.
Bas, Plaintiff iz Error, versus Tingy, Defendant
N error from the'Circuit Couirt for the district of Pemnsylvania.

On the return of the record it appeared, by a case stated, that
the defendant, in error, had filed a libel in the District Court, as
c6mmiander of the public armed ship the Ganges, for himself and
pthers against the ship .liza, 7ohn Bas, master, her cargo, &c.
in which he set forth that the said ship and cargo belonged to
citizens of the United States; that they were taken on the high
.*easby a-Frenchprivateer, on the 31st of March, 1799; and that
they were re-taken by the libellant, on the 21 st of April following,
after having been above ninety-six hours in possession of the
captors. The libel prayed for salvage conformably to the acts of
congress; and the facts being admitted by the answer of the respondents, the I~istrict Court decreed to the libellants one half
of the whole value of ship and cargo. This decree was afirmed
in the Circuit Court without argument, and by consent of the
parties, in order to expedite a final decision on the present writ
of error.
The 'controversy involyed a consideration of the following
sections ih two acts o congress: By an act of the 28th of 7une
1798, (4 vol. p. 154. s. 2.) it is'declared, " That whenever
any vessel the *property of, or employed by, any citizen of the
United'States,or. peson residertttherein, or. any goods or effects
belonging to any such citizen, or resident, shall be re-captured by
any public armed vessel of the United States, the same shall be
restored to the former owner, or owners, upon due proof, he or
they paying and allowing, as and for salvage to the re-captors,
one-eighth part of the value of such vessel, goods and effects, free
"
from all deduction and expenses'
By an act of the 2d of March, 1799 (4 vol p. 472) it is
declared, "That for the ships or goods belonging fo the citizens
of the UnitedStates,or to the citizens, or subjects, of any nation
in amity'with the United States, if re-taken from the enemy
within twenty-four hburs, the owners are to. allow one-eighth part
of the whole value for salvage, &c._ and if above ninety-six hours
one-half, all of which is to be paid without any deduction whatsoever, &c. And, by the 9th section of the same act it is declarea, " That all the money accruing, or which has alreadg
accrued from thesale of prizes, shall be and remain forever a
fund for the payment of the half-pay to the officers and seamren,
who may be entitled to"receive the same."
The" case was argued by Lewis, and E. Tilghman, for the
plaintiff in error, rind by Raile, and TV. Tilghman, for the de.
fendant; and the argunrent turned, principally, upon two in.
quiries: 1st. Whether the act of Alharch 1799, applied only to
the event of a future general war? yd. Whether France was an
enemny of the United States, within the meaning of the law?

37
1800.

58
1800.

CASES RV.LED AN D ADJUDGED IN THE

For the phnti in error,it was urged, that the acts, passed
in immediate relation to France, were of a restricted, temporary,
nature; but that the act of M7arch 1799 established a permanent
system for the governmnt of the navy; and the designation of ",the
enemy" in that act, applies only to future hostilities, in case of a
declared war. That on the just principles of government, every
citizen has a right to the public protection; and, therefore, no salvage ought, in strictness, to be allowed for the ie-capture of the
property of a citizen by a public ship of war. Vatt. b. 2. c. 6. s. 71.
And congress has manifested, in some degree, their sense on the
subject, by making the salvage in that case less, then in the case of
re-capture by a private armed vessel. That the word "encmy,"
must be construed according to its legal import; 1 Stra. 278. and
that according to legal interpretation, the differences between the
United States and France, do not constitute war, nor render the
citizens of France enemies of the United States. Vatt. b. 3. s. 69,
70. 1 Black. Con. 257. 2 Black. Com. 259. 2 Burl. 258. s. 31.
261. s. 39. 262. That a subsequent law does not abrogate a
prior law, unless it contains contradictory matter; and where
there are no negative, or repealing, words, both must be so construed as to stand together. 11 Co. 61. 63. Show. 439. 10 Mod.
118. 6 Co. 19. b. That the act of Ofarch 1799, contains no
repealing, or negative, words; and may be applied, consistently,
to the case of a future public war, leaving the qualified state of
hostility with France, for the operation of the preceding law.
FQr the defendant in error, it was contended, that the relative
situation of the United States and France, is that of" a qualified
maritime war;" on the part of the French aggressive; on our part,
defensive; proceeding from a legitimate expression of the public
will, through its constitutional organ, the congress, manifested
by public declarations, and open acts. That from such a state,
the character of enemy necessarily arises; and that the designation
being so understood by congress, was intended to be applied,
ad i-as actually applied, to France. That the act of Jlfarch
1799 speaks of prizes, which ould only be such as had been
captured from France;'and that taking the word prize,according
to its legal significationi, it means a capture, or acquisition, by
right of war, in a state of war. 3 B!. Com. 69. 108, 2 Wood. 441.
Doug. 585. -591. Rob. Adm. Rep. 283. That if a prize means a
capture in war, it follows, of course, that it means a capture
from an enemy; for, .war can only be waged against enenies.
That war may exist without a declaration; a defensive war requires no declaratiofi; and an imperfect, or qualified, public war,
is -still distinct from the*case of letters of marque and reprisal,
for the redress of a private wrong, by the employment of a private
force. 1 Ruth. b. 1. c. 19. s. 1. p. 470, 1. 2 Ruth. 497, ?. 503.
507. 511. Burl. 196. 189. Vatt. 475. 2 Burl. 204. s. 7. Lee on
Capt. 13-39. 1uf.843. Grot. b. 3. c. 3. s. 6. M4olloy 46. That congress,

SUPREML. COUInT OF THEl UNITED STATrES.

3

gress, by repealing the regulations respecting salvage, containcd in 1800.
the act of Mlarch 1798, has virtually declared, that those regula- %
tions were in force, in relation to France; and that the provisions,
in the act of March 1799, being inconsistent with the provisioxn
in the act of .7wze 1798, the elder law is so far repealed. (1)
The JUDGEs delivered their opinions seriatim in the following
manner:
MOORE, 5ustice., This case depends on the construction of
the act, for the regulation of the navy. It is objected, indeed,
-bat the act applies only to future wars; but its provisions are obviously applicable to the prese:it situation of things, and there is
nothing to prevent an immediate commencement of its operation.
It is, however, more particvlarly urged, that the word "enemy"
cannot be applied to the French; because the section in which it
is used, is confined to such a state of war, as would authorise a
re-capture of property belonging to a nation in amity with the
United States, and such a state of war, it is said, does not exist
between America and France. A number of books have beeui
cited to furnish a glossary on the word enemy; yet, our situation
is so extraordinlry, that I doubt wtiether a par allel case can be
traced in the history of nations. But, if words are the representatives of ideaq, let me ask, by what other word the idea of the
relative situation of America and Francecould be communicated,"
than by that of hostility, or war? And how ciin the characters of
the parties engaged in hostility or war, be otherwise escribed
than- by the denomination of enemie4 It is for the hdnour and
dignity of both nations, therefore, that they should be called
enemies; for, it is by that deseription'alone, that either could
justify or excuse, the scene of bloodshed, depredation and confiscation, -which has unhappily occurred; and, surely, congress could
only employ the language of the act of 'une 13, 1798, towards
a nation whom she considered as an enemy.
Nor does it follow, that the act of .March1799, is to have no
operation, because all the cases in which it might operate, are
not in existence at the time of passing it. During the present
hostilities, it affects the case of re-captured property belonging
to our own citizens, and in the event of a future war it might also
be applied to- the case of re-captured property belonging to a
nation in amity with the United States.. But it is further to be remarked, that all the expressions of the act may be'satisfied even
at this very time: for by former laws the re-capture of property,
belonging to persons resident within the United States is authorised; those residents may be aliens; and, if they are subjects
ofa nation in amity with the UnitedStatcs,they answer completely
the description of the law.
(t)All the acts of congress, passed in relation to France, were cited and
dircaied by both sides in the coirse of the argument; butit is thought unne-

cessary torefer to them more particularly in this report.

10
1800.

CAsEs RULED A.b AJUDGED ig TiE

The only remaining objection, offered on behalf of the plahitift
error, supposes, that, becauie there ard no repealing or negative words, the last law mutt be confined to future cases, in order
to have a subject for the first law to regulate. But if two laws
are inconsistent, (as, in my judgment, the laws inquestion are)
the latter is a virtual repeal of the former, without any express
declaration on the subject.
On these grounds, I am clearly of opinion, that the decree of
the Circuit Court ought to be affirmed.

Sin

WASHINGTON, Yustice. It is admitted, on all hands, that the
defendant in error is entitled to some compensation; but the
plaintiff in error contends, that the compensation should be regulated by the act of the 28th 3'une 1798, (4 vol. p. 154. s. 2.)
which allows only one-eighth for salvage; while the defendant in
error refers his claim to the act of the 2d March, (ibid.456. s. 7.)
which makes an allowance of one-half, upon a re-capture from the
enemy, after aft adverse possession of ninety-six hours.
If the defendant's claim is well founded, it follows, that the latter laV must virtually have worked a repeal of the former; but
this has been denied, for a variety of reasons:
Ist. Because the former law relates to re-captures from the
French, and the latter law relates to re-captures from the enemy;
and, it is said, that "the enemy" is not descriptive of France, or
of her armed vessels, according to the correct and technical understanding of the word.
The decision of this question must depend upon another; which
is, whether, at the time of passing the act of congress of the 2d
of March 1799, there subsisted a state of war between the two
.nations? - It may, I believ*e, be safely laid down, that every contention by force between two nations, in external matters, under
the authority of their respective governments, is not onily war, but
public war.' If it be declared in form, it is called solemn, and is
of the perfect kind; because one whole nation is at war with another whole nation, and all the members of the nation declaring
war, are authoriged to commit hostilities against all the members
of the other, in every place, and under every circumstance. In
such a war all the members act under a *general authority, and
all thli rights and consequences of war attach to their condition.
But hostilities may subsist between two nations more confined
in its nature and extent; being limited as to places, persons, and
things; and this is mor- properly termed imperfect war; because
not solemn, and because those who are authorised to commit
hostilities, act under special authority, and can go no farther than
to the extent of their commission. Still, however, it is public
wuar, because it is an external contention by force, between some
of the members of the two nations, authorised by the legitimate
powers. It is a war between the two nations, though all the
members

41

SUPREME COURT OY THE UNITED STATES.

vaembers are not authorised to commit hostilities such as in a 180.
solemn wir, where the government restrain the general power.
Now, i'f this be the true definition of war, let us see what was
the situatioli of the United States in relation to France. In farch
1799, congress had raised an army; stopped all intercourse with
France; dissolved our treaty; built and equipt ships of war; and
commissioned private armed ships; enjoining the former, and an,.
thorisinF the latter, to defend .hemselves against the armed ships
of France, to attack them on the high seas, to subdue and take
them as prize, and tore-capture armed vessels found in their pose
session. Here, then, let me ask, what were the technical characters of an American and French armed vessel, combating on the
high seas, with a view the one to subdue the other, and to make
prize of his property? They certainly wele not friends, because
there was a contention by force; nor were they private enemies,
becaute the contention was external, and authorised by the legi.
timate authority of the two governments. If they were not our
enemies, I know not what constitutes an enemy.
2d. But, secondly, it is said, that a war of the imperfect kind,
is more properly called acts of hostility, or reprizal, and that
congress did not mean to consider the hostility subsisting between
France and the United States, as constituting a state of war.
In support of this position, it has been observed, that in no
law prior to March 1799, is Francestyled our enemy, nor are we
said to be at war. This is true; but neither of these things werenecessary to be done: because as to France, she was sufficiently
described by the title of the French republic; and as to America,
the degree of hostility meant to be carried onj was sufficiently described without declaring war, or declaring that we were at war.
Such a declaration by congress, might have constituted a perfect
state of war, which was not intended by the government.
3d. It has, likewise, been said, that the 7th section of the act of
31arch 1799, embraces cases which, according to pre-existing
laws, could not then take place, because no authority had been
given to re-capture friendly vessels from the French; and this argument was strongly and forcibly pressed.
But, because every case provided for by this law was not then
existing, it does not follow, that the law should not operate upon
such as did exist, and upon the rest wYhenever they should arise.
It is a permanent law, embracing a variety of subjects, not made
in relation to the present war with France only, but in relation.
to any future war with her, or with any other nation. It might
then very properly allow salvage for re-capturing of America
vessels from France,which had previously been authorised by law,
though it could not immediately apply to the vessels of friends:
and whenever such a war should exist between the United States
and France,or any other nation, as according to the law of nations,
VOL. IV.

GI

Qr

12
1800.

CAsrs RULED

AXD ADJUDGED IN THIM

or special authority, would justify the re-capture of friendly vesit might on that event, with similar propriety, apply to thcm ;
which furnishes, I think, the true construction of the act.
The opinion which I delivered at lNew-2-ork, in Talbot v. Sea-

Ssels,

mn, was, that although an American vessel could not justify the
re-taking of a neutral vessel from the French, because neither the
sort of war that subsisted, nor the special commission under
which the American acted, authorised the proceeding; yet, that
the 7th sect. of the act of 1799, applied to re-captures from France
as an c2cmy, in all cases authorised by congress.

And on both

points, my opinion remains unshaken; or rather has been confirmed by the very able discussion which the subject has lately
undergone in this Court, on the appeal from my decree. Another
reason has been assigned by the defendant's counsel, why the former-law is not to be regarded as repealed by the latter, to wit:
that a subsequent affirmative general law cannot repeal a former
affirmative special law, if both may stand together. This ground
is not taken, because such an effect involves an indecent censure
upoa the legislature for passing contradictory laws, iince the censure only applies where the contradiction appears in ,he same law;
and it does not follow, that a provision which is proper at one
time may not be improper at another, when circumstances are
changed: but the ground of argument is, that a change ought not
to be presumed. Yet, if there is sufficient evidence of such a
change in the legislative will, and the two laws are in collision,
we are forced to presume it.
What then is the evidence of legislative will? In fact and in
law we are at war: an American vessel fighting with a French
vessel, to subdue and make her prize, is fighting with an enemy
accurately and technically speaking: and if this be not sufficient
evidence of the .legislative mind, it is explained in the same law.
The sixth and the ninth sections of the act speak of prize, which
can only be of property taken at sea from an enemy, jure belli;
and the 9th section speaks of prizes as taken from an enemy, in
so many words, alluding to prizes which had been previously
taken: but no prize could have been then taken except from
France: prizes taken from France were, therefore, taken from
the enemy. This then is a legislative interpretation of the word
enemy; and if the enemy as to prizes, surely they preserve the
same character as to re-captures. Besides, it may be fairly asked,
why should-the rate of salvage be different in such a war as the
present, from the salvage in a war more solemn or general? And
it must be recollected, that the occasion of making the law of
Mlarch 1799, was not only to raise the salvage, but to apportion
it to the hazard in which the property re-taken was placed; a circumstance for which the former salvage law had hot provided.
The two laws, upon the whole, cannot be rendered consistent,
Vnless the Court could, wink so hard as-not to see and know, that
in

SUPREME COURT eF THE UNITED ST..TS.

in fact, in the view of congress, and to every intent and purpose, 1800.
the possession by a French armed vessel of an American vessel,
%
was the possession of an enemy: and, therefore, in my opinion,
the decree of the Circuit Court ought to be affirmed.
CHASE, 7ustice. The Judges agreeing unanimously in their
opinion, I presumed that the sense of the Court would have
been delivered by the president; and therefore, I have not pre.
pared a formal argument on the occasion. I find no difficulty,
however, in assigning the general reasons, which induce me to
concur in affirming the decree of the Circuit Court.
An American public vessel of war re-captures an American
merchant vessel from a French privateer, after 96 hours possession, and the question is stated, what salvage ought to be allowed?
There are two laws on the subject: by the first of which, only
one-eighth of the value of the re-captured property is allowed; but
by the second, the re-captor is entitled to a moiety. The re-cap.
ture happened after the passing of the latter law: and the whole
controversy turns on the single question, whether Francewas at
that time an enemy? If France was an enemy, then the law obli.
ges us to decree one half of the value of ship and cargo for salvage: but if Francewas not dn enemy, then no more than oneeighth can be allowed.
The decree of the Circuit Court (in which I presided) passed
by consent; but although I never gave an opinion, I have never
entertained a doubt on the subject. Congress is empowered to
declare a general war, or congress may wage a limited war;
limited in place, in objects, and in time. If a general war is de.
clared, its extent and-operations are only restricted and regulated by the jus belli, forming a part of the law of nations; but if
a partial war is wage d, its extent and operation depend on our
municipal laws.
What, then, is the nature of the contest subsisting between
America and France? In my judgment, it is a limited, partial, war.
Congress has not declared war in general terms; but congress has
authorised hostilities on the high seas by certain persons in certain cases. There is no authority given to commit hostilities on land;
to capture unarmed French vessels, nor even to capture French
armed vessels lying in a French port; and the authority is not
given, indiscriminately, to every citizen -of America, against
every citizen of France; but only to citizens appointed by commissions, or exposed to immediate outrage and violence. So
far it is, unquestionably, a partial war; but, nevertheles, it is a
public war, on account of the public authority from which it
emanates.
There are four acts, aiithorised by our government, that are
demonstrative a of state of war. A belligerent power has a right,
by the law of nations, to search a neutral yessel; and, upon
suspicion

C

14,

CASES RULED AMn .ADJUDGED IN TIlE

1800. suspicion of a violation of her neutral obligations, to seize and
k-.
carry her into port for further -examination. But by the acts of
congress, an American vessel it authorised: 1st. To resist the
search of a French public vessel: 2d. To capture any vessel that
should attempt, by force, to compel submission to a search:
3d. To re-capture any American vessel s~tized by a Frenchvessel;
and 4th. To capture any French armed vessel wherever found on
the high seas. This suspension of the law of nations, this right
of capture and re-capture, can only be authorised by an act of the
government, which is, in' itself, an act of hostility. But still it
is a restrained, or limited, hostility; and there are, undoubtedly,
many rights attached to a general war, which do not attach to
this modification of the powers of defence and aggression. Hence,
whether such shall be the denomination of the relative situation
of America and France, has occasioned great controversy at the
bar; and, it appears, that Sir William Scott, also, was embarrassed
in describing it, when he observed, that " in the present state oJ
hostility (ifso it may be called) between America and France,"
it is the practice .of the English Court of Admiralty to restore,
re-capturedAmerican property, on paymeni of a salvage. Rob. Rep.
54. The Santa Cruz. But, for ny part, I cinnot perceive the
difficulty of the case. As there may be a public general war, and
a public qualified war; so there, may, upon correspondent principles, be a general enemy, and a partial enemy. The designation
of" enemy" extends to a case of perfect war; but as a general de-:
signation, it surely includes the less, as well as the greater, species
of warfdre; If congress had chosen to declare a general war,
,Prancewould have been a general enemy; having chosen to wage
a partial war, France was, at the time of the capture, only a
partial enemy; but still she was an enemy.
It has been urged, however, that congress did not intend the
provisions of the act of March 1799, for the case of our subsisting qualified hostility with France, but for the case of a future
state of general war with any nation: I think, however, that the
contrary appears from the'terms of the law itself, and from the
subsequent repeal. In the 9th section it is said, that all the money
accruing,"" or -whichhas already accruedfrom the sale of.prizes,"
shall constitute a fund for the half-pay of officers and seamen.
Now, at the time of making this appropriation, no prizes, (which
ex vi termini implies a capture in a state of war) had been taken
from any nation but F,'ance, those which had been taken, were
not taken from France as a friend: they must' consequently have
been taken from her as an enehy; and the retro'spective provision
of the'lawt can only operate on such prizes. Besides, when thd
13th section regulates "the bounty given by the United States on
-mynational ship of war, taken from the enemy, and brought into
port," it is obvious, that even if the bounty has no r'elation to previous captures, it must operate from the moment of passing the
act.

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.

act, and embraces the case of a national ship of war taken from 1800.
Franceas an enemy, according to the existing qualified' state of
hostilities. But the repealing act, passed on the 3d of March 1800,
(subsequent to the re-capture in the present case) ought to silence
all doubt, as to the intention of the legislature: for, if the act of
ilfarch"1799, did not apply t6 the French republic, as an enemy,
there could be no reason for altering, or repealing, that part of it,
,which regulates the rate of salvage on re-captures.
The acts of congress have been analysed to show, that a war is
not openly denounced against Fra;zce, and that Franceis no where
expressly called the enemy of America: but this only proves the
circumspection and prudence of the legislature. Considering our
national prepossessions in favour of the French republic, congress
had an ardous task to perform, even in preparing for necessary defence, andjust retaliation. As the temper of the people rose, however, in resentment of accumulated wrongs, the language and the
measures of the government became more and more energetic
and indignant; though hitherto the popular feeling may not have
been ripe for a solemn declaration of war; and an active and powerful opposition in our public councils, has postponed, if not prevented that decisive event, which many thought would have
best suited the interest, as well as the honour of the United
States. The progress of our contest with France, indeed, resembles much the progress of our revolutionary contest; in which,
watching the current of public sentiment, the patliots of that day
proceeded, step by step, from the supplicatory language of petitions for a redress of grievances; to the bold and noble declaration of national independence.
Having, then, no hesitation in pronouncing, that a partial war
-xists between America and France, and that France was an
enemy, within the meaning of the act of March 1799, my voice
nust be given for affirming the decree of the Circuit Court.
PATERSON, 7ustice. As the case appears on the record, and
has been accurately stated by the counsel; and by the judges, who
have delivered their opinions, it is not necessary to recapitulate
the facts. My opinion shall be expressed in a few words. The
United States and the French republic are in a qualified state of
hostility. An imperfect war,-or a war, as to certain objects, and to
a certain extent, exists between the two nations; and this modified
warfare is authorised by the constitutional authority of our country. It is a war quoad hoc. As far-as congress tolerated and authorised the war on our part, so far may we proceed in hostile
operations. It is a maritime war; a war at sea as to certain purposes. The national armed vessels of Franceattack and capture
the national armed vessels of the United States; and the national
armed vesseh of the United States are expressly authorised and
directed to attack, subdue, and take, the national armed vessels
ot

AS

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED i); THE SUPREB,,L COURT, &C.

1800. of France, and also to re-capture American vessels. It is therefore
-

a public war between the two nations, qualified, on our part, in
the manner prescribed by the constitutional organ of our country.
In such a state of things, it is scarcely necessary to add, that the
term " enemy," applies; it is the appropriate expression, to be
limited in its signification, import, and use, by the qualified nature
and operation of the war on our part. The word enemy proceeds
the full length of the war, and no farther. Besides, the intention of
the legislature as to the meaning of this word, enemy, is clearly
deducible from the act for the government of the navy, passed
the 2d of M1-arch 1799. This act embraces the past, present, and
future, and contains passages, which point the character of enemy
at the French, in the most clear and irresistible manner. I shall
select one paragraph, namely, that which refers to prizes taken
by our public vessels, anterior to the passing of the latter act.
The word prizes in this section can apply to the French, and the
French only. This is decisive on the subject of legislative intention.
By the COURT: Let the decree of the Circuit Court be affirmed.

