SUPREME COURT
or

PENNSYLVANIA.

September Term 1792.
Vaughan et al.Assignees of Nancarow versus Blanchard

D

et al.
EBT, for rent. The facts were these: XArancarr, w advertised
to let'the r(om and front cellar of a house, which he rent-

ed from Pemberton; and the defendants agreed to take them at
130/. per annum, commencing the 27th of yuly 1784, and continuing till the end of Nancarrow', term in the house. A lease
in writing was drawn, but never executed, though the defendants
entered into possession of the premises, made some repairs, and
paid a part of the rent. Soon, however, after the defendants had
taken possession of the room and cellar, it was again advertised
to be let, with directions to apply to them for particulars; and,
accordingly, they let the premises to one Dixon; Dixon, again
let them to Fox, the agent of a merchant of the name of Leidfer;
and Le?!ft'r deposited a considerable quantity of merchandize in
the cellar. NAanca'row now claimed a right to pass through the
front cellar, into the back cellar; Leifer objected to it; but, upon
Aancorrow'.s persevering, he took another house, at the end of
Dixron's time (6 or 9 months) to which he removed his goods.
Lez/Fer's agent offered to pay his rent to A-anicarrow, but Xancarrow refused to accept it, unless the receipt was taken, as from
Blanchard. Under these circumstances, the present action was
brought to recover a half year's rent, on a demise (as stated in
the declaration) to hold from the 27th of yuly 1784, until the
expiration of Nancarrow'sterm in the premises, with an averinent that Nancarrow had a lease from Pemberton. Blanchard,
then, instituted an action against Pox, to whom the premises
were under-let for Leuffer; but declaring that he would only
prosecute his claim, if he was compelled to pay the plaintiffs, in
the present suit..
1st. Sergeant

C SES RULED- AND ADJUDGED, &C.

12t

I1st. Sergeant and Ingersoll, for the defendants, moved to non- 1792.
suit the plaintiffs, because there was no proof of a lease from
Pemberton to -ancarrow, as the declaration averred. The only
ground of recovery in this action, is either, that the defendants
actuallv opcupied the premises; or that the plaintiffs, in pursuance of the bargain, had vested them with a right of occupancy.
Now, the'lease of the defendants was made dependent upon the
lease of Pemberton; and non constat that such a lease existed,
as it has not been produced, or any regular account given of it.
Doug. 642, 3.
But, by the COURT: *Whether it is necessary, or not, in this
action, to prove the existence of a lease from Pemberton, there
is no ground for a nonsuit.. The plaintiffs have offered some
evidence to show, that- .Aancarrow possessed a term in the
house; and of the operation and effect of that evidence, how,tver it applies 'to the issue, the jury must judge and decide;
2d. In the charge to the jury, it was stated by the COURT, that
the cause depends upon a single fact, whether Nancarrow had
a right of passage through the front, into the back, cellar? The
affirinative, it was incumbent on, the plaintiffs to prove; but
they had not proved it, either by written, or parol, evidence.
Then, the law declares, that such an inteiruption, in the.enjoyment of the premises, demised, will. suspend the rent.
Verdict for the defendants.

The Commonwealth versus Margaret Biron.
NDICTMENT for the murder of Yane ZPlIGlaughlin. - It
appeared in evidence, on the trial,, that Hugh 1cGiaughlin,
the husband of the deceased, rented from the prisoner, a part of
the house, in which she lived; that on the 10th of 'une 1792,
while it rained hard, a noise was heard at the house, and the
deceased waA attempting to get in; that she said, "You whore,
let me come in;" and the prisoner said, " You whore, you

sh'"nt;" that the deceased appeared to be then in liquor, though
by all accounts, she was a very quiet woman; that the prisoner
op ned the door, and she and the deceased began to struggle,
when the former pushed the latter down the steps, and her head
struck the wall; that the deceased seemed to be bent by her
fall, and the prisoner came out of the house, saving, " Ah!
" this is the way I am troubled with this kind of people'. her
" husband, has just left her -in this situation;" that th witness observed, " You pushed her down," to which she answered,
44 I did not;" but, after the deceased was carried into the house,
she acknowledged that she had done it, and said she was in a
great passion; and that the deceased and the prisoner used before

