HIGH COURT
or

ERRORS AND APPEALS
or

PENNSYLVANIA.

July Session 1799.
Before RusH,
ADDISON,
RIDDLE,

|P:esidents of the Circuits df
Common Pleas.

HENRY and

IPOXE,

Ux. Plaintiffs in Error, versus Houston et Ux.
Ewing eit
N error from the Supreme Court. A writ of summons in
partition was issued by the plaintiff in error, in the Court of
Common Pleas of 7"orh county, returnable to September term
1792, by which the defendant in error was summoned to show
wherefore the following property, held by the parties as tenants
in common, should not be divided: to wit; " bne ferry at the
" river Susquehanna in Hellam township in the county aforesaid,
44 six messuages, one barn, four stables, four gardens, one or"9chard, 250 acres of arable land, and 371 acres of woodland,
" and the usual allowance of six per cent. with the appurte"nances in the same township of Hellam, in the said county of
"Tor." The writ being returned, " summoned," both. the
parties appeared by their attornies, the plaintiffs filed a declaration, setting forth their title, and demanding partition of the
same estates that were specified in the writ; and judgment was
rendered, by consent, in general terms, " that partition be made."
A writ of partition, accordingly issued on this judgment, returnable.

58

CASEs AFFIRmED OR REVERSED IN THE

199. turnable to December term 1792, when "1the sheriff returns the
S"
writ, and that partition hath been made according to the com"niand thereof;" both the parties appeared by their attornies;
and judgment was rendered, " that the partition so made be
"1confirmed, and be and remain firm and stable forever." The
writ of partition recited the words of the writ of summons, except that in describing the place, where the several estates were
situated, the recital added the township of Windsor to the township of Hellam, stating the premises to lie " with the appurte"nances in the same township of Hellam and Windsor, in the
"county aforesaid." It then proceeded to recite the judgment,
"whereupon it was considered by the said Court, that partition
" thereof between the parties aforesaid be made:" and concluded
with the mandatory clause to the sheriff: " Therefore we com" mand you that taking with you twelve honest and lawful men
" of your bailiwick, &c. in your proper person you go to the said
"ferry, &c. And there by the oaths or affirmations of the said
" twelve men, in the presence of the partiesaforesaid, by you for
"that purpose to be warned (if upon being warned they will attend) and the said six messuages, &c. (specifying all the estates
" mentioned in the writ except the ferry) with the appurtenances
"(having respect to the value thereof) into- two equal parts
"you cause to be parted and divided, and one of the said
"equal parts to the said plaintiffs, &c. and the other equal part
"unto the defendants, &c. to hold to them in severalty you
"assign and deliver, so that neither the said plaintiffs, &c. nor
"the said defendants, &c. have more of the saidferry, six mes"suages, &c. with the appurtenances than to them of right
"belong or appertain. And the said plaintiffs, &c. their equal
"half part thereof to them allotted, and the said defendants, &c.
"the other equal part thereof to them allotted, may hold in seve"ralty. And that the partition thereof so openly and distinctly
"by you in form aforesaid made you have before our Judges,
A4&c. The inquisition held under this writ of partition, after
naming the persons constituting the inquest, states " that they
" were duly sworn and affirmed to divide and make partition of one
"ferry, at the river Susquehanna in the township of Hellam and
"county of Tork aforesaid, six messuages, &c. with the appur"tenances in the same township of liellam and Windsor in the
county aforesaid, betwe.en the plaintiffs, &c. and the defend"ants, &c." And after dividing and parting the whole into two
equal parts, the inquisition proceeds to a specification, that the
inquest " have parted and divided the said ferry, messuages,
"lands and premises with the appurtenances into two equal
"parts, having regard to the true value thereof. And the lot
"marked on the annexed draught No. 1. containing the saidferrit
"at the river Susquehanna, with all the flats, &c. thereunto be"longing; the lot marked in the said draught No. 2, &c.; and
"cthe

HIGH .CoURT OF ERRORS AND APEAVS-b

" the tract of land marked No. 3, &c., also a fishery on the 4799.
" river Susquehanna,at or near the saidferry, together with each
"and every of their rights, &c. they have allotted to the said
"plaintls their heirs asd assigns forever," &c.(1) A writ of
error was brought by the plaintiff in the partition on the judg.
ment of the Common Pleas, but that judgment being affirmed
by the Supreme Court, the cause was removed into this Court,
by the same party.
For the plaintiff in error (who was also the plaintiff in the
partition) Lewis made the following objeftions.to the proceedings.
1st. That the original writ, declaration, and judgment, only
call for a partition of lands in Hellam township; but the judicial
writ recites the original writ to have been for lands in Hellan and
Windsor townships, and commands a division of them; and the
return and final judgment are for lands in Hellam and Windsor
townships. The declaration, judgment, and execution, must pursue the writ; and if the execution does not pursue the judgment
it is a nullity. Execution is obtaining the actual possession of
the thing recovered by law; but the lands in Windsor township
never were recovered. 1 Inst. 154. a. Ibid. 289. 2 Bac. Abr. 329.
It is evidently an error of the attorney; but can he correct his
errors in this way? The authorities, both in criminal and civil
cases, show the contrary; for, although it may not be necessary
to name a township, town, street, &c. in the process and pleadings, if they are named, they must be proved. 2 Hawk. A C.
ch. 46. s. 34. Salk. 661. Bull. N. P. 89. Rob. 37, 8. 2 Inst.
513. Is it possible, however, to maintain, that an execution can
issue for a greater quantity of lands, or for different lands, than
what is recovered by the judgment upon which it is founded? The
law is incontestably established, that the slightest variance in the
recital of a record, as between the count and the writ, so between
the judgment and the execution, is fatal. Cro. E. 185. 329, 330.
829. 2 Lutw. 1179. 1181. 2 Vent. 153. Gilb. C. B. 50. 3. 239.
Besides, the statutes ofjeofl'aille do not extend to judicial writs,
when the party has no day in Court: and under the authority of
the present judicial writ, any other lands might as well have
been divided, as those demanded in the declaration and recovered by the judgment.
2d. That the originalwrit, the declaration, and the judgment,
are for a ferry, six messuages, &c. but the judicial writ omits
(1) Though therewas no other description of the fishery, yet the defendant's
counsel insisted, that both the ferry and the fishery were appurtenant to lot
No. 1; and the assertion seemed to be supported, on an inspection of the
draught to which the inquer t referred. The ferry was kept on a part of lot
No. 1; and the fishery, being locatcd with'n tbe boundaries of the same lot,
would be "*at a: remrthe.. "'

CASES AFFIRMED OR REVERSED

IN '5HE

-

1799. the ferry in the mandatory clause; and yet the ferry is divided
i.-y. by the inquest, who could only act tothe extent of the command
and authority in the writ of pmtition. This, too, is a mistake;
but the consequences would be ruinous, indeed, if it could be
arbitrarily corrected by the sheriff or the inquest. The sheriff
must execute the command of the Court, doing neither more,
nor less; as he was not commanded to divide the ferry, he had
no authority to do so; and, of course, the division is a nullity.
Hob. 37, 8. Moore 19.
3d. That the inquest have assigned a fishery to the plaintiffs,
which never was put in demand; and the defendants sweep the
same water. 2 B1. Com. 190, 191. 2 Keb. 413. 580.
4th. That it does not appear, on the sheriff's return, that the
parties attended, or were warned to attend, the execution of the
writ of partition; though this was commanded by the writ, is
required by the law, and is recognised by all the precedents.
5th. That the return to the writ of partition does not state
that the premises were assigned and delivered to the respective
parties, as the writ directs; but merely that they were allotted.
These objections were answered by Ingersoll and Hopkins,
for the defendant in error, substantidly as follows:
1st. That every intendment will be made in favour of a judgJnent; 2 Keb. 413. and it is admitted, that all the proceedings are
regular till the issuing of the judicial writ. In the execution of
that writ, also, the Court will presume the sheriff has acted
lawfully and faithfully till the contrary is shown. But it appears, on
a connected view of the record, that the property demanded, is the
same property that was divided, the words "same" and ,1thereof"
applying relatively fiom the first to the last of the process, as designating the same specific property. It is true, that the name of
Windsor township is first introduced in the judicial writ; but if
the introduction is not tolerated as an amendment for the sake of
greater certainty, it ought to be disregarded an surplusage. The
writ of partition was issued by the plaintiffs, who cannot take advantage of their own error; Moore, 692. 5 Com. Dig. 301. 3 BI.
Com. 16. the judgment on the return, it will be presumed, was
rendered at their instance, af least they appenred by an attorney
ofn the record; and there has been a long acquiescence of the
parties.
2d. That the ferry, though accidentally omitted in one clause
of -the judicial writ, is mentioned in other of its clauses, ard is
contemplated in every part of the record as an object of partition.
It belongs to lot No. 1, and may be considered as appurtenant
to it.
3d. That the fishery was appurtenant to lot No. 1. and was
named in the inquest, merely as a matter of detail and specification.
4th. That

71

HIGH COURT or ERRORS AND APPEALS.
4th. That notice to the parties is proved on two grounds;
first, because the writ commands it, and the sheriff returns, that
he has executed the writ according to the command thereof; and,
secondly, because the. plaintiffs issued the writ, they were present by attorney when it was returned, and at that time never
complained. But ev6n if no notice had been given, there was
another remedy; and the objection comes too late on a writ of
error. 5 Com. 301.
5th. That the writ of partition directs the premises to be divided, assigned and delivered; it is recited in the inquest; and
the sheriff returns that he has obeyed the command of the writ.
When, therefore, the inquest declare that they have allotted the
moieties to the respective parties, it must be deemed an allotment according to the terms of the command and authority under which they acted.
On the last day of the session, the CoURT mentioned, that some
doubts had arisen, which would prevent-a decision of the cause
till the adjourned session; but that, in the meantime, for their
own information, they should direct a certiorarito issue to the
Court of Common Pleas of rork county, to inquire whether any
precept had been given, authorising the writ of execution, or
judicial writ of partition, to issue; and if so, to return it. (2)
Cur. adv. vult.
At an adjourned session, held on the 17th of January 1800,
the COURT unanimously affirmed the judgment of the Supreme
Court.
Judgment affirmed.

Levezey et al. versus Gorgas et al.
N error from the Supreme Court. A declaration was filed in
the Court below by the plaintiffs in error, against -the defend1790,
of
ants, in which they set forth,." that on the
and thence continually, they have been seised in their desmesne
as of fee of and in a certain water grist mill with the appurtenances, upon Wissahicon creek in Philadelphiacounty; that the
defendants all the time aforesaid and stillare in possession of a
certain other. water grist mill with the appurtenances upon the
same creek, and below the mill of the plaintlffs; and that the
defendants, intending to injure the plaintiffs, had raised their dam
(2) Lewis suggested a doubt, whether a certioraricould issue, per saltemn, to

the Common Pleas, overleaping the
wlit of error was brought; but he
might be taken to ascertain the ftct
that issued, as regularly annexed to

Supreme Court, on whose judgment the
agreed to give eflbct to any mode, that
in question and to consider any precept
the record,.

higher,

19.

