CIRCUIT COURT,
PENNSYLVANIA

DISTRICT.

April Term 1803.
Present WASHINGTON, an Associate Judge of the Supreme Court.
PZTERS, District Judge.

Balfour's Lessee versus Meade.
.pHIS was an ejectment for four tracts of laif , lying north and
.1. west of the Ohio and Allegiany rivers, and Conewango creek,
in Peisylv'ania. The plaintiff's title rested upbn settlement
rights, surveys, and warrants. In 1793, the plaintiff was a surgeon in the army in garrison at fort .Franklin. He took some of
the soldiers, went out, cut down a few trees, and built up five.
pens, or cabins, about 10 feet square, and, without putting covers
on them, returned back to the fort in six or seven days. In April
1795, he had these five tracts survey'ed in the name of himself, Elizabeth Balfour, and three others, each four hundred acres. The
deputy surveyor had, upon application of the plaintiff, directed
one Wilson to make the surveys, but something preventing him
friom doing it, the. plaintiff employed one Steel to do it; and upon
returning the surveys to Stokely, the deputy surveyor, he prevailed upon him to write an authority to Steel to make the surveys,
which Stokeh! says he did, and antedated it, in order to make it
appear to precede the surveys. In Mlay 1795, he obtained warrants of acceptance for two of the surveys of two of the tracts,
having paid the consideration money for all.
In autumn 1794, J7Lieade, the defendant, finding no person setfled upon these tracts, built cabins upon the'four tracts in controversy, covered them, or some of them, and then went off, not
recurning again until November 1Y795, when he came, with his
family, to reside in one of the cabins, and fixed settlers upon the
other tracts. In 'fttly 1795, the plaintiff gave notice to the de.
fendant,

364

L.ASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THL

1303. lfidant, that he claimed the tracts in question, that he intended

t-_y.' to settle them, and forewarned him to proceed no further with

his improvements thereon.
In . anuary 1796, the defendant caveated the plaintiff in form.
and the same Jeing tried before the board of property in ilarci
'1800, the caveats were dismissed, and warrants were ordered to
i'ssue, -but they never did issue, in consequence of doubts afterwards existing respecting the plaintiff's title.
In April 1796, the plaintiff made engagements with some persons to settle these lands for him; but, after they had seen and
approved the lands, they declined going on them on hearing of
the defendant's claim.
It uas in proof, by many witnesses, that the waf with the Indian.s render cl it dangtrous to settle that country, during the
years 1793, 1794, and 1795, and that but few attempted before
ilhe spring or autumn of 1796.
E. Tilgihnan and Dalla.s contended, that the plaintiff had acquir.
ed a good right by settlement, survey, and warrant, to the lands in
question, under the laws of Pennsylvania, and particularly the act
of the 3d of April 1792, 3 vol. p. 209.; that the settlement of
.0leade, in 1795, was in violation of the plaintiff's prior right, and,
of course, void; that the plaintiff had been- prevented, by the In.
dian hostilities, jfrom settling, or fixing settlers, until the treaty ol
fort Grenville, nAade in August 1795, and ratified in Decenber
1795; and that he had attempted to settle it in a reasonable time
after -that event., 1 Dall. 6. 2 DalL. 98. 3 Dall. 457. Addison.
216. 354. 218.

Ingersoll and 3.1-Kean contended, that the plaintiff never had
made a settleinent within the meaning of the law, not having acconipanied it with actual residence, or an intention to reside; that
of course, he never had an inceptive title to be protected by the
proviso in the "th section of the act of the 3d of April 1792.
They cited 4ddison, 248. 335. The case of the 1(olland compan
v. C'oxe, in the Supreme Court of this state (ante, p. 170.) and
the decisions of the judges of that Court, in a feigned issue, tried
at Sunbury, ante, p. 237.
WVASHINGTO', Yzustke. The importance of this cause, led the
Court to wink at some irregularities in the argument at the bar.
.which have tended to protract it to an unreasonable length. De.
pending- on the construction of laws of the state, and'particularly on that of the 3d of April 1792, it had, at first, the appearant: of a difficult, and very complicated, case. It is not easy at
the first reading of a long statute, to discover the bearings of one
section upon another, so as to obtain a distinct . iew of the meaning, and intention, of the legislature. But the opinion I now -entertain, was formed on Saturday, before we parted; open, however,

36,,

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICi.

ever, ,is it always is, to such alterations as ulterior reason nnd ar- 1803.
gument may produce.
The better to explain, and to understand, the subject, it will be
necessary to take a general view of the different sections of the act
of the 3d of April 1792, upon which this cause must turn. The
1st section reduces the price of all vacant land, not previously
iettled, or improved, within the limits of the Indian purchase,
made in 1768, and alt precedent purchases, to 50s. for every 100
acres; that of the vacant lands within the 1ndian purchase made
in 1784, ling east of Alleg-hany river and Conewango creek, to
51., to be granted to purchasers, in the manner authorised by
former laws. The 2d section offers for sale all the other lands
of the state, lying north and west of the Ohio, Alleghany, and
Conewango, to persons who will cultivate, improve, and settle the
same, or cause it to be done, at the price of 71. lOs. per hundred
acres, to be located, surveyed, and secured, as directed by this
law. It is to be remarked, that all the above lands lie in different districts, and are offered at different prices. Title to any of
them may be acquired by settlement, and to all, except those lying north and west of the. Ohio, Alleghany, and Conewango, bv
rarrant without
.settlement.
The 3d section, referring to all the above lands, authoris s applications to the secretary of the land office, by any person having settled and improved, or who was desirous to settle and improve, a plantation to be particularly described; for a warrant for
any quantity of land, not exceeding 400 acres, which warrant is
to authorise and require the surveyor general to cause the same
to be surveyed, and to make return of it, the grahtee paying the
purchase money and fees of office. The 8th section, which I
notice in this place because intimately connected with the third
section, directs the deputy surveyor to survey and mark the
lines of the trict, upon the application of the settler. This survey, I conceive, has no other validity than to furnish the particular description,which must accompany the application at the land
office for a warrant.
The 4th section, amongst other regulations, protects the title
of an actual settler, against a warrant entered with the deputy
surveyor, posterior to such actual settlement.
The 9th section, referring exclusively to the lands north and
west of the Ohio, Alleghany, and Conewango, declares, " that no
" warrant or surtrey of lands within that district, shall give a ti, tle, unless the grantee has, prior to the date of the warrant,
made, or caused, to be made, or shall, within two years after
" the date of it, make, or cause to be made, an actual settlement.
c by clearing, fencing, and hlivating two acres at least in each
1 hundred acres, erecting thereon*a house for the habitation ol
" man, and residing, or causing a fanily to reside thereon for
five years next following his first settlintr the same. if he shall
it

.,9

866

CAsEs RULED ANij ADJUDGED

IN TH

1803. "so long live, and in default of such actual settlement and resi'
L
" dence, other actual settlers may acquire title thereto."
Let us now consider this case, as if the law had stopped here.
A title to the land in controversy, lying north and west of the
Ohio, Alleghany, and Conewango, could be acquired in no other
manner, than by actual'settlement; no sum of money could entitle a person to a warrant, unless the application was preceded by
actual settlement on the land, or, if not so preceded by actual
settlement, the warrant would give no title, unless it were followed by such settlement within two years thereafter.
The question then is, what constitutes such an actual settler,
within the meaning and intention of this law, as will vest in him
an inceptive title so as to authorise the granting to him a warrant; not a pedis possessionot the erection of a cabin, the clearing,
or even the cultivation, of a field. These acts may deserve the
name of improvements, but not settlements. There must be an
occupancy, accompanied with a bon6 fide intention to reside and
live upon the land, either in person, or by that of his tenant, to
make it the place of his habitation, not at some distant day, but
at the time, he is improving: for, if this intention be only future,
either as to his own personal residence or that of a tenant,
then the execution of that intention, by such actual residence,
fixes the date; the commencement of the settlement, and the
previous improvements, will stand for nothing in the calculation,
The erection of a house, and the clearing and.cultivating the
ground, all or either of them may afford evidence of the quo anizo with which it was done; of the intention to settle; but neither,
nor all will, constitute a settlement, if unaccompanied by residence.
Suppose, then, improvements made, the person making them declaring at the time, that they were intended for temporary purposes of convenience, and not with a view to settle and reside;
could this be called an actual settlement, within the meaning and
intention of the legislature? Surely no: But though such acts,
against express declarations of the quo animo, will not make a
settlement, it does not follow that the converse of the proposition
will; for, a declaration of an intention to settle, without actually
carrying that intention into execution, will not constitute an actual settlement.
How do these principles apply to the case of the plaintiff? In
1793, he leaves the fort at which he was stationed, and in which
he was an officer, with a few .soldiers; cuts down some trees,
erects four or five pens (for, not being covered, they do not
deserve the name of cabins) and in five, six, or seven days, having accomplished this work, he returns into the fort, to his former
place of residence. Why did he retreat so precipitately? We
hear of no danger existing at the time of completing these labours,, which did *not exist during the time he was engaged in
them. What prevented him from proceeding to cover the cabins
and

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA

.J6

DISTRICT.'

and from inhabiting them? Except the state of general hostility, 18oS.
which existed in that part of the country, there is no evidence :.f4
a particular necessity for flight, in the instance of this plaintiff.
It i-, most obvious, that the object of his visit to this wilderness
was to erect what he considered to be improvements; but they
were, in fact, uninhabitable by a human being, and, consequently,
could not have been intended for a present settlement. He was,
besides, an officer in the army, and, whilst inthat service, he
could not settle and reside at his cabin, although the country had
been in a state of perfect tranquillity. In short, his whole conduct, both at that time and afterwards; his own statements when
asserting a title to the lands, the recitals in his warrants of acceptance, and certificates of survey, all afford proof which is irresistable, that he did not mean, in 1793, to settle. 1'Iistaking
the law, as it seems many others have done in this respect, he
supposed that an improvement was eq'uivalent to a settlement, for
those lands. It is not pretended even now, nor
vesting a right iun
is it proved by a single witness, not even by Grouse, who assisted
in making the improvements, that lie contemplated a settlement.
It has been asked, could the legislature have meant to require
persons to sit down, for a moment, on land encompassed by dangers from a savage enemy? I answer, no: at such a time it was
very improbable that men would be found rash enough to make
settlements. Buit yet no title could be acquired Without such
a settlement, and if men were found hardy enough to brave
the dangers of a savage wilderness, they might be called imprudent men, but they would, also, deserve the promised reward.
not for their boldness, but for their settlement.
The first evidence we have of an intention in the plaintiff to
make an actual settlement, was in the spring of 1796, long after
the actual bond fide settlement of the defendant with his family;
for, I give no credit to the notice from the plaintiff to the defendant in Yttly 1795, since so far from accompanying it with actual
settlement, he speaks of a future settlement, which, however, was
never carried into execution. Every thing which I have said -. ith
respect to the 400 acres surveyed in the name of George Bal#'ur,
will apply a fortiori against the three other surveys in the name
of Elizabeth Bal our, &c. who it is not pretended were ever
privy even to the making of the cabins, or ever contemplated a
settlement upon those lands.
If the law, then, had stopped at the proviso, it is clear that the
plaintiff never made such a settlement as would entitle him to a
warrant. But he excuses hinself from having made such a settiement, as the law required, by urging the danger to which any
person, attempting a residence in that country, would have bedi
exposed. He relies on the proviso to the 9th section of the law,
which declares, " That if any such actual settler, or any grantee
;n any s.ich original or succetdinr, warrant, shall, by ftrce of
1.A:vTI.E

368

CASES RULED AiD ADJUDGED 1N ThE

1803. " arms of the enemies of the UnitedStates, be prevented from
."making such actual settlement, or be driven therefrom, and
"shall persist in his endeavours to make such actual settlement
"as aforesaid, then, in either case, he and his heirs shall be en"titled to have, and to hold, the said lands, in the same manner
" as if each actual settlement had been made and continued."
Evidence has been given of the hostile state of that country,
during the years 1793, 1794, 1795, and the danger to which setters would have been expos'ed. We know that the treaty at fort
Grenville was signed on the 3d of August 1795, and ratified the
22d of December in the same year. Although fleade settled with
his family in November 1795, it is not conclusive proof that therc
was no danger even then; and, at any rate, it would require
some little time, and preparation, for those who had been driven
off, to return to their settlements; and if the cause turned upon
the question, whether the plaintiff had 'persevered in his exertions to return and.make.such settlement, as the law requires, I
should leave that question to the jury, upon the evidence they
have heard. But the plaintiff, to entitle himself to the benefit of
the proviso, should have had an incipient title at some time or
other, and this could only have been created by actual settlement,
preceding the necessity, which obliges him to seek the benefit of
the proviso, or by warrant.
I do not mean to say, that he must have had such an actual
settlement, as this section requires to give a perfect title; for, if
he had built a cabin, a nd commenced his improvement in such
manner, as to afford evidence of a bona fide intention tb reside,
and had been forced off by the enemy, at any stage of his labours, persevering, at all proper times afterwards, in endeavours
to return, when he might safely do so, he would have been saved
by the proviso. But it is incumbent on the plaintiff, if he would
excuse himself from the performance of what has been correctly
called a condition precedent, to bring himself fully and fairly
within the proviso, which was made for his benefit: this he has
not done.
Decisions in the Supreme Court, and in the Common Pleas,
of this siate, have been cited at the bar, two of which I shall no.
tice for the purpose of pointing out the peculiar mark, which distinguishes them from the present, and to prevent any conclusions
fiom being drawn from what has been said, either to countenance, or impeach, those decisions. The cases I allude to are,
the Holland company v. Coxe, and the feigned issue tried at
Sunbury.
The incipient title, under which the plaintiffs claimed in those
causes, were warrants,,, authorised by the 3d section of the law.
The incipient title in the present case, i3settlemnt. The former
was to be completed by ;ettement, survey, and patent. This was to
precede the warrant; and f-r the mere distinct explanation ol this
distinction,

CIRCUIT COURT, PENNSYLVANIA DISTRICT.

36S

distinction, it will be important to ascertain what acts will con- 1803.
stitut& an actual settler to whom a warrant may issue, and what
constitute an actual settlement as the foundation-of a title. I have
before explained, who may be an actual settler to demand a warrant, namely, one who has gone upon and occupied land, with a
bona fide intention of an actual present residence, although he
should have been compelled to abandon his settlement, by the
public enemies, in the first stages of his settlement: but actual
settlement, intended by the 9th section, consists in clearing, fencing, and cultivating, two acres of ground at least, on each one
hundred acres, erecting a house thereon, fit for the habitation of
man, and a residence Lontinued for five years next following his
first settling, if he shall so long live. This kind of settl,.mnt
more properly deserves the name of improvenient.;, as the different acts to be performed clearly import. This will satisfactorily
explain what at first appeared to be an absurdity in that part of
the proviso, which declares, that "if such actual settler shall be
" prevented from making such actual settlement, &c." The plain
meaning is, that if a person has once occupied land, with an intention of residing, although he has neither cleared or fenced
any land, and is forced off by the enemies of the United States.,
before he could make the improvements, and continue thereon
for five years; having once had an incipient title, he shall be excused by the necessity, which prevented his doing what the law
required, and in the manner required; or, if the warrant holder,
who, likewise, has an incipient title, although he never put his
foot upon the land, shall be prevented by the same cause, from
making these improvements, &c. he, too, shall be excused, if, as
is required, also, of the settler, he has persevered in his endeayours to make those improvements, &c.
But what it becomes such a grantee to do, before he can claim
a patent, or even a good title, is quite another question, upon
which I give no opinion-.
As to the plaintiff's surveys and warrants, they cannot give
him a title. Not the surveys. 1st. Because they are a mere description of the land, which the surveyor is authorised by the
8th section to make, and the applicant for the warrant is directed,
by the 3d section, to lodge in the land office at the time he applies for the warrant. It is merely a demarcation, a special location of the land intended to be appropriated, and gives notice
of the bounds thereof, that others may be able to make adjoining
locations, without danger of interference: that is not such a surveyas is returnable, so as to lay the foundation of a patent. 2d. It
is not authorised by a warrant. 3d. It was not for an actual settler. 4th. It was not made by an authorised surveyor, if you believe, upon the evidence, that the authority to Steel, was antedated, and given after the survey was returned. Not the warrants. 1st. Becquse it was not a warrant of title, but of acceptance.
2d.
:3B
Vnt. IV.

370

CASES

RULED

AND ADJUDGED IN TIaE

1803. 2d. It is not founded on settlement, but improve,.-ent, and if it
.ihad

recited the consideration to be actual settlement, the recital

would have been false in fact, and could have produced no legal
valid consequence.
As to the caveat; the effect of it was to close the doors of the
land office against the further progress of the plaintiff in perfecting his title. The dismission of it again opened the door, but
still, the question as to title is open for examination in ejectment,
if brought within six months, and the patcnt will issue to the
successful party.
The plaintifl, therefore, having failed to show a title sufficient
to enable him to recover in this action, it is unnecessary to say
any thing about the defendant's title; and your verdict ought to
be for the defendant.
The jury found for the defendant.

Hurnphries versus Blight's Assignees.

T

HIS was an amicable action, to obtain a decision upon these
general facts- Alurgatroyd, being possessed of two notes,
drawn by Peter Blight, payable without defaleation, and being
indebted to .lumphries, offered to give the notes in part payment,
and cash for the rest, of the debt. The notes had been due for
some time; and a commission of bankruptcy had previously issued against Blight; but Blight, upon an application from 1-umphries, cadvised him to accept the proposition, without any intimation of a detence, or set-off. The notes were, accordingly, indorsed by lIurgatroydto Humphries; but when presented by the
indorsee to be proved, under the commission, the assignees of
Blight claimed a right to set-off a debt, due from Zflirgatroyd to
Blight; and for the trial of this claim, the present action was instituted. Two questions, however, were discussed on the trial:
1st. Whether the holder of a promissory note, purchased after a
commission of bankruptcy had issued against the drawer, could
prove the debt, under the commission? 2d. Whether the note,
being purchased after it was due, had not lost its general negotiable character; and, consequently, remained -subject to any setoff, that would apply between the drawer and payee?
Hai-e and Dallas argued for the plaintiff, and cited 5 vol. Acts
Cong. p, 68. x. 34. 5 Geo. 2. c. 30. s. 7. s. 28. 5 vol. Acts Cong.
p. 45.74-. . 1. 8.42. 1 Atk. 73. 2 Wils. 135. Cull. 99. Evans, 220.
C. J. .L. '9. I Atk. 119. 4 vol. Penn. Lawrs, 102, 3. Dall.edit.
3 7. Rep. 80. 7 T. Rep. 429. 2 Dall. Rep. 396. 2 Fonbl. 150.
A4.'str. 4-27,
Pa7vle

