SUPRE-ME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

.berances. " 2 Mez. 299. Hurst v. F ell, in the Supreme Court 1793.
of Pennsylvania.
The evidence was opposed, as tending to contradict the deed,
whose expressions were clear, and did not require explanation.
The COURT, however, upon the authority of Hurst v. Fell,
admitted the evidence, though with great reluctance; and declaring that they would reserve the point. But as the verdict was
for the full amount of the plaintiff's demand, the question was
not revived. (1)
C. Smith, for the plaintiff.
Hamilton, for the defendant.

Eddowes et al. versus T. Niell.

T

HIS was an action on the case, for goods sold and delivered
to Wiliiam Niell, upon a special assumpsit by the defendant,
Thomas 'iell, to guarantee the payment of the price. Pleas,
1st. Non a.sumifsit, on which iss-le was joined; and, 2d. The
statute of limitations, to which, resident beyond seas, was
replied, &c.
The plaintiffs were British merchants, from whom William
Niell, a trader in Baltimore, was accustomed to import goods.
On the 14th of 7anuaryi 1771, his brother, the defendant, wrote
a letter to them, in which he said, " that to strengthen his bro" ther's credit, he would guarantee all his dealings with their
" house." Several shipments of goods were made both before,
and after, the receipt of this letter; and William Niell continued
to make payments on account, till the year 1775, when the revolutionary war began its agitations; and all commercial and amicable intercourse, between Great Britain and the United States,
was suspended until the peace of 1783. In the year 1784, the
plaintiffs sent a power of attorney to collect the debts due to
them here; their agent applied to William Niell who acknowledged the justice of the debt; but claimed an abatement of
eight years interest, on account of the war; and a further credit
upon gbiing his bond for the amount; which the agent refused.
In 1785, William Niell died, leaving the defendant his executor;
to whom, in that-character, the agent of the plaintiffs applied for
payment; and he answered, by admitting the claim, and recom.
mending a suit against the estate. No demand, however, was
made, on the ground of the defendant's guarantee, till about the
time of commencing the present action, in "fanuaiy 1790.'
(1) This cause was tried at Ca,- ste,

id .Prius, on the 15th of May -793,

before SazPpz and BRADvoRD, 5eucticv.

134
179.

CASES

RULED AND

ADJUDGED

IN"
THE

On these general facts, the plaintiffs' counsel contended, fst.
the demand was fair and legal, founded upon an uneouivocal letter of credit, applicable, in its terms and meaning, as
well to shipments made before, as after, it was received. 2d. That
it was not necessary to render the letter binding on the defendant, that the plaintiffs should answer it; nor that they should
give notice to him of a default, (as in the case of bills of exchange) at any period of the transaction. 3d. That there was no
express waiver of the guarantee; and nothing can be implied,
even in favour of a surety, since no new security was taken; nor
any negligence shown, in omitting to prosecute the principal,
upon the demand of the surety.

SThat

For the defendant it was urged, 1st. That the demand was a
harsh and stale one; founded on a letter, which had not, in fact,
created any additional confidence, or credit; the receipt of which
had never been acknowledged; and the responsibility of which
had never been suggested, for more than nineteen years,
2d. That the guarantee ought not to receive an indefinite interpretation; but to be regarded as a credit, according to the course
of the American trade, for a year; and to forbear a suit for so long
a time, during the life, and after the death of the principal, was,
in fact, giving a new and independent 'credit; which is tantamount to a release of the surety. 3d. That although the statute
of limitations may not apply, as a plea in bar (the plaintiffs residing abroad) the lapse of time furnishes a presumption, that
'the defendant's letter never was accepted, or relied upon, as a
guarantee. 4th. That, on the most rigid construction, the guarantee can only apply to future, not to past, transactions. And on
these points, respectively, the following books were cited: 1 T.
Rep. 167. 2 Br. 6. 579. 2 T. Rep. 366. 370. 1 Pow. Cont.
287. Ibid. 8, 9, 10.
By the CouRiT: Letters of credit are a common, and useful,
instrument in the course of commerce. They are, however, of a
very serious nature; and the writer is bound to comply with the
contents, according to their genuine and honest import. In order to render thcm obligatory as a contract, it is not necessary,
,hat they should be answered, if credit is given upon them. Like
the case of transmitting a bond in a letter, acquiescence and acceptance are implied, in the silent receipt of the instrument.
It has been urged, that the lapse of nineteen cars, without
notice of a default in payment by the principal, is a virtual abandonment of all r'ecoUrse to the surety; on the principles applicable to bills of exchange, and to other negotiable instruments.
But there is no analogy between the cases; for, the engagement
of the letter of credit extends, in its very nature, to various future
:ransactions, without reference to time, or amount. It is true,
o:vt-wr,
.
tbat the gross negligence of a creditor, even of the

obligee

SUPREME COURT OP PENNSYLVANIA.

obligee in a bond, may operate to discharge a surety; as where the
obligee is requested by the surety to proceed against the principal,
in order to save the debt; if he neglects or refuses to do so,the suret-, both in law and equity, will be exonerated; and this is the case
in 2 Brown's ChanceryReport.v, 579. But does the evidence in the
present action, justify an adoption of the rule? From the years 1771
and 1772, when the shipments were made, until the year 1775,
when payments were first suspended, there could be no reason for
calling on the defendant. From 17-5, till the peace of 1783, the
debtor was guilty of no default, which would warrant an application to the surety; for, he was prevented, by the war, from
corresponding with the creditor, and making any payment, or
remittance, on account of the debt. As soon as the peace had
restored the intercourse between the parties, the creditor applied
for payment to the debtor, who acknowledged the debt; claimed
an abatement of interest; and made som'e overtures for a settlement; but died in the next year, without affecting any thing in
that respect. The agent of the plaintiffs then addressed the defendant, not as surety, but as executor, of his brother; and,
indeed, it does not appear, that the agent knew of the letter of
credit, till sometime afterwards.
On this review of the facts, we cannot perceive any culpable
negligence, on the part of the plaintiffs, in pursuing their original debtor: nor is it clear, that they had any right to call upon
the defendant, as a surety, until they had failed in their endeavours
to recover from the principal; or the principal had become notoriously insolvent. The want of notice, therefore, in such a
case, and under such circumstances, does not, in itself, furnish a
bar to the demand; and although, in some instances of debts, a
lapse of time will warrant a presumption of payment; yet, from
the nature of this contract, no such presumption can arise here.
Verdict for the plaintiffs. (1)
Tilghman, and Roevie, for the plaintiffs.
Ingersoll, Smith, and Duncan, for the defendant.
(1) This cause v as tried at 2oik-Toin,
vNisi Prht, on the 22d of May 1793.
treforc Snir,. and BRAD ?OD .74u.Ttice.

135
1793.

