SUPREME COURT
or

PENNSYLVANIA.

September Term 1794.
The Commonwealth versus Cbambr .
AIHABEAS corus.was issued to the jailor of PhiladelpIda,to
bring before Judge SHIPPEN, the 1odies of M3agdalen and
Zare, two negro women, committed as the absconding slaves of
'Irs. Chanzbr . The Judge, after hearing the case opened, adjourned it, for argument and decision, to the Supreme Court, on
the 13th of Septemler 1794, when the following facts appeared:
Mrs. Chambr was a widow lady, in the island of St. Domingo,
and owned the negroes in question as slaves; but on the confl:rration at Calpe Trancois, she fled, bringing them with her, to PhilAdelph a; where she resided five calendar months and three weeks;
a period that exceeds six lunar months, in computation of time.
She then removed with the negroes to Burlington, in the state of
Xet-" ersey, designing, as it was suggested, to avoid the operation of the act, for the gradual abolition of slavery; hut no
proof was offered, that she had ever intended to settle in
sylvania. The negroes absconding from Mrs. (.Tanzbre, came to
Philadelphia; and now they asserted their freedom, under the
10th section of the act, which declares all unregistered negroes
and mulattoes to be free, "except (inter alia) the domestic
4 slaves attending upon persons passing through; or sojourning
"in this state, and not becoming resident therein: provided such
" domestic slavvs be not aliened, or sold to nn inhabitant, nor
retained in this state longer than six months." 1 vol. Stat,
Lan's, 841. Dall. edit.
For the negroes, it was contended, that, upon authority, th.
general legislative expression, must be construed to mean lunar.
and not calendar, months: for which were cited, .5 Co. 2. Crc.
'f. 167. 1 3Stra. 446. 2 B. (.'%. 141. 1 Burr. 1.455 D1)tg. 446.
4(,-2

144.

CASRS

R LED AND ADJUDGED,

&C.

1794. 463. And that, even if the computation by calendar months wera
k.y--j more usual at common law, a different construction would be
adopted in favour of liberty, and to prevent an evasion of the
most honourable statute in the Pennsylvania code. Harg. Co,
Litt. 145. b. (2)
But the COURT (stopping the counsel for Mrs. Chamnbr) said,
that they were, unanimously, of opinion, that the legislature intended calendar months; that the same expression, in other acts
of the general assembly, has uniformly received the same construction; B'udenell et al. v. 7aux et al. (1) that there was nothing illegal, or improper, in the conduct of Mrs. Chanzbr, on
the occasion; and that, therefore, the negroes must be remanded
into her service.

Lewis, Ingersoll, and Frafiklln, for the negroes.
M. Levy, for Mrs. Chambr.
(1) This oase has been reported in 2 Dall. .Rep. 302.

