14
1800.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

is not where a question arises, that may be affected by a
but where a case arises under a treaty ; and if a question
on the validity of a treaty, arises in a state Court, there is a special provision for transfering it to the Supreme Court; I vol. 61.
. 22. But, in the present instance, it does not appear that any
question can arise under the treaty; for, it is not referred to,
directly, nor indirectly, in any part of the record. As to an
amendment, there is nothing to amend by. The citizenship of
the defendants could only be judicially known, by the admission
of the parties, or by evidence of the fact. It is not expressly,
or impliedly admitted; and this Court cannot try an issue to asS.

2.)

Streaty,

certain it.
By the CouRT: The decisions, on this subject, govern the present case; and the 11th section of the judiciary act can, and must,
receive a construction, consistent with the constitution. It says,
it is true, in general terms, that the Circuit Court shall have
cognizance of suits "where an alien is a partyI;" but as the legis.
lative power of conferring jurisdiction on the federal Courts, is,
in this respect, confined to suits between citizens andforeigners,
we must so expound the terms of the law, as to meet the case,
" where, indeed, an alien is one party," but a citizen is the
other. Neither the constitution, nor the act of congress, regard,
on this point, the subject of the suit, but the parties. A description of the parties is, therefore, indispensable to the exercise of
jurisdiction. There is here no such description; and, of course,
The writ of error must be quashed.

Uooper versus Telfair.

E

RROR from the Circuit Court for the district of Georgia.
The record exhibited the following case:
Basil Cooper, at present of the island of .amaica, in the dominions of his Britdnnic majesty, formerly an inhabitant of the
state of Georgia,brought an action in the Circuit Court of Georgia
to November term 1797, against Edward Telfair, of the district
of Georgia, upon a bond for 1000/. sterling, equal to 4285 7 0 dollars, dated the 14,th of 3.iaql 1774.
After byer of the bond and condition, the defendant pleaded in
bar, 1st. Payment. 2d. "'That, on the 4th day of Mazy 1782, an act
" was passed by the legislature of the state of Georgiaentitled I An
" act for inflicting penalties on and confiscating the estate of such
" persons as are therein declared guiltyoftreason,and for other put" poses therein mentioned,' by which it is, among other things en" acted and declared, 'that all and every the pelons, named and in" cludtd in the said act, are banished from the said state; and that
"all and singular the estate real and personal of each and every of
the aforesaid persons, which they held, possessed, or were entitled

SUPRI A1E COURT O

THE UNITED STATES.

is

"titled to in law, or equity, on the 19th day of April 175, and 1800.
"which they have held since, or do hold, in possession, or others '...y-.*
"holding in trust for them, or to which they are, or nay be,
"entitled in law, or equity, or which they may have, hold, or be
"possessed of in right of others, together with all debts, dues
"and demands of whatsoever noture, that are or may be owing to
"the aforesaid persons, or eitherr of them,.be confiscated to and for
"the use and benefit of this state.' That the said Basil Cooper is
"expressly named and included in the above in part recited acts;
"and that he was on the said 4th day of May 1782, and for a
"long time before a citizen of the state of Georgia, and of the
"United States of America. That the said Basil Cooper, being a
"citizen, &c. owing allegiance, &c. onthe 4th of May 1782,and for
"c a long time before, adhered to the troops of his Britannic mat jesty, then at open war with the said state of Georgiaand United
"-States of America, and did take up arms with the said troops, &c.
" That the said Basil Cooper hath never since returned within the
"limits and jurisdiction of the said United States, or either of
" them. That by virtue of the above recited act, and, also, of an
" at entitled ' An act to continue an act to authorise the auditor
" to liquidate the demands of such persons as have claims against
" the confiscated estates, and for other purposes therein mention" ed ' passed the 13th February1786; and of another act entitled
- I An act to compel the settlement of the public accounts, for
" inflicting penalties on the officers of this state, who may neglect
"their duty, and for vesting the auditors with certain powers for
"the more speedy settlement of the accounts of this state, with
"the United States,' passed the 10th of February 1787; the sum
"of money mentioned in the condition of the bond, and all interest
"thereon, have become forfeited and confiscated to the state of
"Georgia; and the right of action attached thereto; and no cause
"of action hath accrued to the said Basil Cooper to demand and
"have of the said Edward Telfair, the said sum of money &c."
To this plea, the plaintiff replied, " that he was never tried,
convicted, or attainted, of the crime of treason alleged against
him; and that by the constitution of the state (in force at the
" time of passing the acts in fhe said plea set forth, to wit, on
"the 4th day of May 1782), unanimously agreed to in a con' vention of the people of this state, on the 5th of February
" 1777, it is ordained, that
" Article 1. The legislative, executive, and judiciary, depart" ments shall be :separate and distinct, so that neither exercise
" the powers properly belonging to the other.
" Article 7. The house of assembly shall have power to make
" such laws and regulations, as may be conducive to the good
" order and well-being of the state, provided such laws and re" gulations be not repugnant to the true intent and meaning of
" any rile, or regulation, c ,ntaIned in this constitution.
A rticle sq.

16
1800.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THR

Article 39. All matters of breach of the peace, felony, Murder, and treason against -the state, to be tried in the county
where the crime was committed, &c.
." Article 60. The prihciples of the habeas corpus act shall be
"part of this constitution.
" Article 61. The freedom of the press, and the trial by jury,
forever.
" to remain inviolate
" And that the said recited acts, so far as they can operate
", to bar the said Basil from maintaining his action, are repug.
" nant to the true intent and meaning of divers rules and regu" lations contained in the said constitution, and are as to the
" action of the said Basil null and void: Without that, &c.'
The defendant demurred to the replication; and the plaintiff
joined in demurrer.
On the 2d of -May 1799, the Circuit Court, composed of
ELLSWORTH, Chief Yustice, and CLAY, Districtfudge, decided,
that the replication was insufficient; that the plea in bar was
sufficient; and that judgment on the demurrer be entered for the
defendant.
Upon this judgment the present writ of error was brought,
and the following errors assigned:
1. The general errors.
2. That the plea does not set' forth the constitutional power
of the legislature of Georgia,to deprive the plaintiff of his rights
as a citizen; and, on their own authority, to pass sentence of
of confiscation and banishment.
3. That the judgment decides that the legislature had cognizance of the treason alleged against the plaintiff and could legally
try, convict, and banish him; whereas they had no such power on
constitutional principles.
4. That by the judgrment it appears, the legislature could deprive individuals of their lives and property, without trial by jury,
or inquest of office, contrary to the constitution of Georgia.
5. That the judgment gives effect to an act of Georgia, which
is an union and usurpation of judicial, as well as legislative powers; which powers the constitution declares should be kept separate.
The case was argued by E. Tilghinan, for the plaintiff, and by
Ingersoll-andDallas, for the defendant, on the 7th of February
1800, upon the general question., whether the confiscation acts of
Georgia, were repugnant to the constitution of the state, and,
therefore, void?
For the Plaintifl: 1st. If the law is contrary to the constitution,
the law is void; and the judiciary authority, either of the state, or
of the United States, may pronounce it to be so. 2 Dall. 308.
410. 3 Dal. 383. 2d. The law is contrary to the constitution, inasmuch as it is an exercise of the judkcial por'er, by the legislat X,
"

"
"

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.

17

tive authority, in opposition to an express prohibition-of such an 1800.
union ofjurisdiction. That acts of attainder, banishment, and confiscation, are an exercise of judicial power, the English, as well
as the American, authorities, clearly establish. 2 Woodes. Lect.
621, 2. 11 State Trials, 25. 6 State Trials, 405. 4 Co. Inst.
2 Woodes. 147. 3 Dall. 389. 3. Whatever right Georgia had to
confiscate the property of her enemy; yet, as the pleadings show
the plaintiff to have been a -citizen, his property could only be
forfeited by the regular judgment of a "Court,upon a trial by his
peers, or the law of the land. As the case is now presented, it is
a legislative act, by which the property of an individual citizen is
arbitrarily taken from him, and given to the 'state of Georgia.
3 Dali. 388, 389.
For the defendant: It is conceded, that if the law plainly and
obviously violates the constitution of Georgia, it is void, and
never W.as a valid rule of action. The only question, therefore,
to be discussed; is, whether such a fatal collision actually exists?
Or, in other words, whether the legislature of Georgia had a
power, consistently with the constitution, to pass a law, confiscating the property of her own citizens, who had. fled beyond the
reach of the ordinary legal process? 1st. Georgia,at the time of
passing the law, was a sovereign, independent, state, with all the
rights, prerogatives, and powers resulting from that character; except so far as she had expressly devolved on congress, a portion
of her sovereignty; an exception that does not affect the present
case. 2d. To a corporation of the most limited nature, the power
of passing by-laws is a necessary incident. And to every sovereign legislature, an indefinite power of making laws, is equally
an incident, restricted only by impossibilities; for, even if they
should be against natural justice, Blackstone tells us, they would
be valid. 3d. The constitution of Georgia does not declare, that
"no bill of attainder shall be passed.' There is, therefore, no
express restriction of the sovereign legislative authority upbn the
subject; and to decide in favour of the restriction, would be to
make, ex post facto, not to enforce, the constitution of Georgia.
4th. Such acts of attainder and confiscation were not novelties in
America, any more than in England. 2 Woodes. Lect. 621. 624.
497, 498. 622. See confiscation acts of the several states. They
are exercises of political authority, rather than of judicial power:
they are laws, not judgments. And as the power of attainder,
banishment, and confiscation, is 'essential to the existence and
operations of government, yet, cannot be exercised by the ordinary tribunals of justice; it naturally belongs to the sovereign,
that is, to the legislature of the nation. 5th. But, independent of
the necessity of the existence of such a power, and of the implication that it does exist under every constiation, unless it is expressly excluded, a just analysis of the various clauses of the conD
stitution
VOL. IV.

18

CAsEs RULED AND ADjuDaoi5 IN THE

1800. stitution itself, (which contemplates a trial by jury only in the case
'

.of

an offence committed within a-county of the state) the cotem-

poraneous construction of the legislature of Georgia,the corroborative example of other states, whose constitutions contain the
same provisions, and even the authoritative recommendations of
congress, with the recognitions of the treaty of peace; demonstrate
the legitimacy and validity of the acts of attainder and confiscation, which naturally grew out of the revolutionary war.
6th. Attainder and confiscation acts are most common in Eng.
land; yet, generally speaking, the judicial power and the legislative
power, are there kept separate and distinct. Blaekstone, WVoodeson, Montesquieu, De Lolme. They are the exercise of a constitutional power of legislation: 2 Wood. 621. 647. And to exercise a
power, not within the scope of the judicial authority, cannot be
confounding the distinct branches of the government.
On the 13th of February 1800, the Judges (except the Chief
Yvwice, who had decided the cause in the Circuit Court) delivered their opinions, seriatim, in substance as follows:
WAsHINGTON, /ustice. The constitution of Georgia does not
expressly interdict the passing of an act of attainder and confis.
cation, by the authority of the legislature. Is such an act, then, so
repugnant to any constitutional regulation, as to be excepted from
the legislative jurisdiction, by a necessary implication? Where
an offence is not committed within some county of the state, the
constitution makes no provision for a trial, neither as to the place,
nor as to the manner. Is such an offence (perhaps the most dangerous treason) to be considered as beyond the reach of the
government, even to forfeit the property of the offender, within
its territorial boundary? If the plaintiff in error had shown, that
the offence, with whic he was charged, had been committed in
any county of Georgia, he might have raised the question of conflict and collision, between the constitution and the law: but as
that fact does not appear, there is no ground on which I could
be prepared to say, that the law is void. The presumption, indeed,
must always be in favour of the validity of laws, if the contrary
is nbt clearly demonstrated.
CHASE, 7ustice. I agree, for the reason which has been as.
signeds to affirm the judgment. Before the plaintiff in error could
claim the beneiit of a trial by jury, under the constitution, it was,
at least, incumbent upon him to show, that the offence charged was
committed in some county of Georgia,in which case alone the constitution provides for the trial. But even if he had established
that fact, I should not have thought the law a violation of the
constitution. The general principles contained in she constitution
are not to be regarded as rules to fetter and controul; but as
matter merely declaratory and directory: for, even in the constitution

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.

is

stitution itself, we may trace repeated departures from the 1800.
theoretical doctrine, that the legislat-ve, executive, and judicial
powers, should be kept separate and distinct.
There is, likewise, a material differLnce between laws passed
by the individual states, during the revolution, and laws passed
subsequent to the organization of the federal constitution. Few
of the revolutionary acts would stand the rigorous test now applied: and although it is alleged that all acts of the legislature,
in direct opposition to the prohibitions of the constitution, would
be void; yet, it still remains a question, where the power resides
to declare it void? It is, indeed, a general opinion, it is expressly admitted* by all this bar, and some of the Judges have,-individually, In the Circuits, decided, that the Supreme Court can
declare an act of congress to be uncopstitutional, and, therefore,
invalid; but there is no adjudication of the Supreme Court itsilf
upon the point. (1) I concur, however, in the general sentiment,
with reference to the period, when the existing constitution came
into operation; but whether the power, under the existing constitution, can be employed to invalidate laws previously enacted,
is a very different question, turning upon very different principles;
uind with respect to which I abstain from giving an opinion; since,
on other ground, I am satisfied with the correctness of the judgment of the Circuit Court.
PATERSON, Iustice. I consider it as a sound political proposition, that wherever the legislative power of a government is undefined, it includes the judicial and executive attributes. The
legislative power of Georgia, though it is in some respects restricted and qualified, is not defined by the constitutioin of the
state. Had, then, the legislature power to punish its citizens, who
had joined the enemy, and could not be punished by the ordinary
course of law? It is denied, because it would be an exercise of
judicial authority. But the power of confiscation and banishment does not belong to the judicial authority, w#hose process
could not reach the offenders: and yet, it is -a power, that grows
out of the very nature of the social compact, which must reside
somewhere, and which is so inherent in the legislature, that it cannot be divested, or transferred, without an express provision of
the constitution.
The constitutions of several of the other states of the union,
contain the same general principles and restrictions; but it never
was imagined, that they applied tQ a case like the present; and
to authorise this Court to pronounce any law void, it must be a
clear and unequivocal breach of the constitution, not a doubtful
and argumentative implication.
(1) The pointhas since been decided affirmativel by the Supreme Cout in
JAfa-bury v. Madison, I Crandj'! Pep. 137. Sce Dall. Rep.

CUTSHIN'C"

20

CAsEs RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1800.
CtrsHIN, Justice. Although I am of opinion, that this Cour;
4._.
has the same power, that a Court of the state of Georgia would
possess, to declare the law void, I .do not think that the occasion
would warrant an exercise of the power. The right to confiscate
and banish, in the case of an offending citizen, must belong to
every government. It is not within the judicial power, as created
and regulated by the constitution of Georgia: and it naturally,
as well as tacitly, belongs to the legislature.
By the COURT: Let the judgment be aflirmed with costs.

Williamson, Plaintiff in Error, versus Khicaid,

E.RROR
from the Circuit Court of Georgia. It appeared from
the record, that "ffMarian Ki caid of Great Britain, widow,
"demanded against John G. IVilitamson the one third of 300
acres of land, &c. in Chatham county, as dower. That the
"tenantpleaded, 1st. The actof Georgia(liassed the Ist of Mlarch
"1778) attainting G. Kincaid (the demandant's late husband)
"forfeiting his estate, and vesting it in Georgia, without office.
"2d. The act of the 4th of May 1782, banishing G. Kincaid, and
"confiscating his estate. 3d. The appropriation and sale of the
"lands in question by virtue of the said attaindet and confisca.
"tion, before the 3d of September 1783 (the date of the dc "nitive
treaty of peace) and before G. Kincaid's death. 4th. The alien.
"age of the demandant (who was residefit abroad on the 4th of
"July 1776 and ever since) and therefore incapable of holding
"lands in Georgia. That the demandant replied, that she and
"her husband were inhabitants of Georgia, on the 19th of April
"1775, then under the dominion of Great Britain; that her
"husband continued a subject of Great Britain and never owed
"allegiance to Georgia, nor was ever convicted by any lawful
"authority of any crimes against the state. That the tenant
"demarred to the replication, the demandafht joined in demur"rer, andjudgnient was pronounced by the Circuit Court (corn"posed of WASHINGTON, .7ustice, and CLA-r, District Judge)
"for the demandant." On this judgment the writ of error was
brought, and the following errors assigned.
1. The general errors.
2. The attainder of G. Kincdid and the forfeiture and sale of

his estate; so no right to dower accrued; and no land out -of
which it could be enjoyed.
3. The alienage-of the widow on'the 4th of July 1776 and
ever since- by which she was incapable to take and hold real
estate in Georgi&.
The principal question (whether an alien, British subject, was
entitled, under the treaty of peace, to claim and hold lands in
dower)

