CIRCUIT COURT, PENNcSYLVANIA DISTRICT-.

417

the jury, in these words: "To destroy a vessel, is to unfit her 1806.
"1for service, beyond the hopes of recovery, by ordinary means.
" This, in extent of injury, is synonymous with cast away. It is
1' the generical term: casting away is a species of destroying, as
" burning is. Both mean such an act, as causes a vessel to perish,
" or be lost, so as to be irrecoverable by ordinary means."
The defendant was acquitted, owing, it is believed, to a doubt,
whether he had bored himself, or directed any other person to
bore, the auger holes in the bottom of the vessel; which was a
new vessel, picked uii at sea, after she was abandoned, carried
into St. _ago de Cuba, and there (the holes being discovered)
soon repaired, and fitted again for sea.

Symonds versus The Union Insuance Company.
TJHE plaintiff had effected, at the office of the defendants, three
policies of insurance, dated the 12th of Septenber 1803.
The first on the schooner Diana,.Nicholas master, valued at 4500
dollars; the second on the freight of the schooner, valued at 1500
dollars, and the third on her cargo, valued at 4000 dollars; on a
voyage, "at and from New--Tork to Cape Franyoiswith liberty to
"proceed to another port, should Cape Franfoisbe blockaded, and
cc the vessel prevented entering that port, from that, or any other;
" cause, and at and from thence back to New-rork." The order
for the insurance, declared "that the assured is not to abandon,
c if she cannot enter the Cape from blockade or-other cause, but
9 liberty is given to proceed to some other port."
The schooner sailed from New- 2ork, on the 19th of September
1803, with instructions "to proceed to C'ape Franfois; and, if she
"could not enter, from blockade or other cause, to steer towards
the Bite of Leogane, and enter either into Port-au-Prince,or
"some other port in the bite." On the 8th of October,shewas boarded, off the island of St. Domingo, by an officer from the Blanche,
a British frigate, who sent her papers on board the Bellerophon,
another British ship of war. On the next day capt. Nicholas was
taken oii board the Bellerophon, and was informed, "that the
°9 island of St. Domingo was blockaded by an English squadron,
11in consequence 'of which no vessel would be permitted to enter
"any port or harbour, in the said island;" and, to that effect, the
register and papers of the schooner were indorsed. It appeared,
also, from the captain's testimony, "that he was told he was not
"permitted to proceed on his intended voyage, nor to go to Gtba;
but should proceed down to TZingston, .7amaica;that he was
ordered to keep near the frigate Desire, until they had cleared
CL the island of St. Domingo; that on his arrival at Kingston, he
"' was, also, told by the custom-house officers, that he could not
"clear
3H
%'or.IV,

18

tCASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE

1806. " clear out for Cuba, whither he was still desirqus of going; and
L
that, finally, the cargo was landed and sold at King.ton." The
proceeds were then vested in another cargo, with which thti ship
returned to Netv-21ork. On her arrival there, about the 17th of
December 1803, the plaintiff abandoned the cargo and freight to
the defendants, and claimed as for a total loss; to recover which
(deducting the proceeds of the cargo, and accounting for the
profits on the investment homeward) the present action was instituted.
On the trial of the cause these grounds of defence were taken:
Ist. That upon the specific terms of the contract, -the assured had
not a right to abandon. The consequence of being turned aside by
a blockading force was contemplated by the parties, but not in-

sured against; for, the voyage insured was to the Cape, or to
another unblockaded port of Hfipaniola. Th.- whole island being
blockaded, another port must be sought at the risque of the assur-d;
the conduct of the Britib:h being neither capture, nor arrest; but,
simply, precaution, to prevent a breach of blockace. 2d. That on
general principles, it is not a case of abandonment, *or a total loss.
The cargo was not prevented from arriving at its place of destination,, by any risque insured against, acting upon the subject
insured immediately, and not circuitously. There has been no
capture, with a view to condemnation; no anest, for the purpose
of an embargo, in the seruice of a foreign prince; the cargo remains specifically the same; the ship has returned; wages have
been paid, and of course freight has b eon earned; nothing, in short,
has affected the voyage insured, but the act of preventing a breach
of blockade, and-the low state of the Kingston market; and for
neither of these is the underwriter liable. 2 Mlarsh. 434. 2 Burr.
1198. 1 T. Rep. 187. 2 14farsh. 482. 2 Burr. 696. 3 Atk. 195. 2
Stra. 849. 2 Mllarsh. 496. Doug. 219. 1 .Esp. N. P. Rep. 237. s
Bos. and Pull. 388. 5 Pr'p. V.P. Rep. 50. Mill. 305, 6. 5 East,

388.

,I

The answer, for the plaintiff, was, in general, that the voyage
insured had been destroyed, by the superior force of a foreign
power; and that, independent of the means taken to prevent a
breach of the blockade, the vessel had been constrained, against
the express desire of the captain, to proceed to a particular port,
iri
exclusion of every other.
And the COURT, in the charge to the jury, declared the law to
be clearly with the plaintiff; on whicl a verdict was found in his
favour for the goods and freight, at'the value insured, subject to
a deduction of the proceeds of the homeward investment.
Rawle, for the plaintiff.
Dallas, for the defendant.

Conframp

