254

SUPRE14E COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

sipirit of the agreeement, a discussion and decision of the princi- 1802.
pie, was alone contemplated.
In this vicw of the case, the only point to exercise the discretion of the jury, will be (not whether any interest shall be allowed upon the judgment, but) from what period the interest shall
begin to run. The judgment being made absolute by the agreement, a reasonable time should, perhaps, be allowed for a trial,
as contemplated by the terms of the agreement; but when the
trial in January 1793, had fixed the right of Moore andj7ohnson to the debt, as assignees of Vance, Caldwell and Vance; and
when Caldwell himself had acquiesced, in the verdict, by paying
what he thought due, without demanding an indemnit7; the
Court cannot perceive any legal, or equitable, ground, upon
which the right of interest'should be longer suspended.
Upon the whole, we think, that interest ought not to be allowed, upon the sum -fixed by the judgment of 7anuary 179[, until
the decision in January1793; but that the interest ought to run
from that period. Although Caldwell himself asked no indemhity, on the payment which he made, we shall think it proper, in
aid of the executors, to direct an indemnity against the attachments to be given, before the amount of the verdict, on this oceasion, is paid.
Verdict for the plaintifT. (1)
E. Tilghman, Lewis, and Dallas, for the plaintiff.
Ingersoll, and sfiKean, for the defendants.

The Commonwealth versus Gibbs.

T

HIS was an indictment, on the 17th section of the election
law (4 State Laws, p. 342. Dall. edit) which provides
(among otl er things) that "if any officer of the election shall b&
c threatened, or violence used to his person, or interrupted in
" the execution of his duty, every person who shall be guilty of
" such intimidation, threats, violence, or interruption, being con" victed thereof, shall be fined and imprisoned for the same, at
"the discretion of the Court, not exceeding six months imprison.
"ment, nor exceeding one hundred dollars fine."
The facts were briefly these: Mr. Beckley, the prosecutor,
was appointed a judge, at the general election in October 1801.
Mr. Gibbs, the father of the defendaut, presented his ballot, but
before accepting it, Mr. Beckley insisted, that he should answei

the following questions: 1st. Did you, at any time during the
(1) The indemnity was given to the satisfaction of the Judges, and the ex.

ecutors paid the amount of the verdict into Court. Thus i'irminatcd in 1802.
a suit commenced, in fact, t\%enty ye- --s before..n 178el

American

254
1802.

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGEP IN TH-

Anzerian war, join the British army? 2d. Or take an oath
allegiance to the king of Great Britain? 2d. Or were you
attainted of treason against the -United States, or the state of
-Pennsylvania?Mr. Gibbs declined answering the questions; and
(after some altercation) his son, the defendant, shaking his fist
at BecAleyj said, "I will see you to-morrow."

Sof

TNo grounds of defence were taken by Ingersoll and Lewis:
1st. That the judge of the election was not in the performance
of a daty, when he proposed such questions to an elector. The
act of assembly declares who may vote; and as to the enumerated requisites t(. constitute a right of voting, the voter's oath,
or affirnation, may be demanded. After the repeal of the- test
laws,
lerr citizen, who had not been attainted, had a right to
vote. But the questions are not pointed to the qualification designatei in the act; the answers to those questions might tend to
criminste the voter himself; -or, if attainted, he would. still be
.liable, inotwithstanding the treaty of peace) to the corruption of
blood, imder the old state constitution, the treaty of peace not
operatiag as a reversal of the attainder; and no lawyer ever suggested, or would assert, that a mans vote could be rejected, unless he answered questions thus tending to the exposition of his
own gui!t. 1 Styl. Pr. Rep. 675. 3 Bl. Com. 268. 363, 4. Doug.
572. Silk. 153. 4 State Trials, 747. 2d. That it is material,
on the present indictment, -to prove that the defendant acted
with design to influence unduly, or to overawe the election, or
to restrain the freedom of choice: whereas it is evidently the
case of a son interposing, to protect an aged and infirm parent
from insult; ind his actions, as well as words, were the mere
ebullition of sudden passion.

Reed and Dicerson, for the commonwealth, admitted that no
answer could be exacted, which would expose a man to penal
consequences; but they insisted, that the answers to the questions proposed (though in the affirmative) would not, at this day,
involve the voter in any jeopardy of life, liberty, property, or
penalty. The answers could only.prove him (if in the affirmative) to be an aliez; and an alien may certainly be compelled to
disclose his foreign birth. Park. 164. The questions were calcu.
lated to ascertain a fact, on which the right to vote depended.
None but citizens can vote. Now, although every man (even a
native of America) had a right to chuse his party in the revolutionary war (1 Doll. Rep. 53.) yet, if he took an oath of allegi-

ance to Great Britain, or joined her armies, he determined his
election; and in neither of these cases, any more than in the case

of an attainder, -could he vote at our elections, as a .qualified
citizen. If, then, the judges of the election acted within the
'imits of an official discretion, in proposing the questions, the
lifted

5!

"I'9tREXE COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

lifted fist, and threatening words, of the defendant, bring the case 1802.
clearly within the .description and punishment of the law.
The CoURT delivered a full and decided opinion, in the
charge to the Jury, that the questions, proposed by the judges of
the election, were illegal; that Mr. Bechly could not,. therefore,
be considered in the execution of his duty, when he insisted
upon an answer to. those questions; and that, consequently, the
defendant was not liable to an indictment, under the election
law (however he might otherwisE be charged) for resisting, in
the-way that he did, the demand upon his father, to ansNer ques.
tions tending to criminate himself.
Verdict, not guilty.

The Commonwealth versus Franklin et al.
N August Session 1801, of the Court of Q~iarter Sessions, the
grand jury of Luzerne county presented the following indictnment:

"Luzerne county ss.
"The Grand- Ihquest for the body of the county of Luzerne,
" upon their oaths respectively do present, that 'fohn Franklin,
Elisha Satterlee,.and 7ohn Jenhins, all late of ihe said county,
"yeomen, on the first day of Aug.ust, in the year of our Lord one
"thousand eight hundred and one, at the county aforesaid, and
" within the jurisdiction of this Court, unlawfully did corn"bine and conspire, for the purpose of conveying, possessing, and
"settling, on certain lands within the limits of the county afore"said, under a certain pretended titld hot derived from the au"thoritv of this commonwealth, or of the late proprietaries of
"Pennsylvania before the revolution, to the evil example of all
"others in like manner offending, contrary to the form of the
"act of general assembly of this state in such cage made and
"provided, and against the Leace and dignity of-the common" wealth of Pennsylvania, &c.'
" And the Jurors aforesaid, upon their oatt- aforesaid, do
"farther respectively present, that the said John Franklln', Elisha
"Satterlee, 7ohn 7enkihu, and Joseph Biles, all :ate of the coun"ty aforesaid, yeomen, on the first day of August, in the year of
"our Lord one thousand eight hundred and one, at the- county
"aforesaid, did combine and conspire for the purpose of laying
' out townships, by persons not appointed or acknowledged by
'the laws of this commonwealth, to the evil example of all
"others In like manner offending, contrary to the form of the
"act of assembly of this state in such case made and provided,
" and

