22

CAszs

RuLED AND ADjUDoD ix Tr

1800. lature, as well as the principles of justice, will sanction the deniL
al. The act of assembly sought to compose strifes, to shorten
litigation, by assigning an amicable tribunal, to which the parties
might voluntarily resort: and when both have agreed to resort
to that tribunal, it would be inconsistent with the general nature
of an agreement, to permit one of them alone to withdraw from
its jurisdiction. Feuds would be inflamed, instead of being allayed; and suits multiplied, instead of being diminished, by such
a construction of the law. There may be cases, however,•in which
a plaintiff alleging surprise, or mistake, would be allowed by the
Court to discontinue his suit: but after an agreement to refer. .
disclosure and hearing before, the referees, and an opinion expressed, or intimated, by them, upon the merits, a discontinuance
cannot be regarded as a matter of right, and would only be permitted upon very cogent feasons, such, perhaps, as would invalidate the report itself. In th, present case, we are of opinion,
that the plaintiff had not a right to discontinue the suits; and
that no sufficient reason appears, for- allowing a discontinuance "
upon the authority.of the Court.
On the discussion of other exceptions to the report (one of
which was, that a single report was made, though two suits were
referred) it was agreed to consolidate the actions, and to refer
the disputed points again to the same referees.

Mather versus Pratt et a,

T

HIS was an action brought by the plaintiff, as indorsee and.
holder of several promissory notes, drawn by Dorey and
Bayhir, in favour of Yoseph ilussi, .against the defendants, to
whom Dorey and Bdyhir had assigned all their estate, in trdst
for the payment, pro rata, of such of their creditors, as should,
within a certain period, execute a general release; and the dividend of the non-assenting creditors was to be paid to them.
The plaintiff had not executed the release; and, it was objected,
that he could not sue the trustees, even for a dividend, in his
own name, without performing the condition precedent.
The COURT were unanimously, and clearly,- of this opinion;
and the plaintiff suffered a .non-.suit. (1)
.HM Levy, for the plaintiff.
Dallas, for the defendant.
(1) After this non-suit, the plaintiff issued a foreign attachment against

Dnrey and Bayhir, and attached the dividend in the hands of th defendants;
which was, eventually, recovered.

