.208

CASES RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THE"

1800. ciple; but I think it will be found safest to adhere to it, in all
Scases proper for a legal indemnification, in the shape of damages.
SMITH, _.ustiee. I perfectly concur in the opinion expressed
by the Chief .ustice, upon the responsibility of the owner of a
ship. But, I confess, that I am not prepared to accede to his
opinion, on the assessment of damages. I take this distinction.
In a case of contract; or in a case of damage by gross negligence; the jury .should always, I think, give a compensation to
the full amoL.it of the injury actually sustained. But if an injury is done, in a way merely fortuitous and accidental, I think
thie jury have a legal and salutary discretion upon the subject.

BRACKE RIDGE,

_ustice, concurred generally in the senti-

ments of the Chief 7zistice.
Verdict in favour of the plaintiff for 2,500 dollars. (1).
Water's Executors versus M'ClelIm et al. (2).

T

RESPASS for goods of the testator, taken and sold by thc
sheriff, on an execution issued against Dewees. The principal part of the goods were claimed by t'e testator, under a distress and sale, which he had, also, executed against Dezees; but
he had left the goods in Deuees's possession for four or five
years. The charge contained the following points:
SHIPPEN, Chiefyustice. 1st. It is incumbent on the plaintiff,
to prove his property in the goods, which were taken by the sheriff; and to do this, he has produced evidence of a former distress and sale, of the same goods, fbr rent due from Dezwees to
him. But the defendants answer, that the distress was fraudulent; because (among other reasons) the goods were left in the
possession of the debtor. In the case of a voluntary sale of goods,
the law, both in Pennsylvania and Eng-land, regards the continuance of the debtor's possession, as a badge of fraud. In England,
the law is the same, where the sale is made by the sheriff; but
in Pennsylvania a different rule, in that case, has prevailed; and
where a relation, or friend, after, a fair purchase, at public sale,,
leaves the 'goods in the occupancy and use of the debtor, it never has been deemed a fraud upon creditors. As, therefore, the
purchase, on the present occasion, was not by a private bill of
sale; but at an open, public, vendue; the continued possession
(I) The account exhibited for the whole expense of raising and repairing
the brig, anounted to 13101. 8:. 9d.
(2) Tried in the Circuit Court, Prest-Cievter, 29th of May 1800, before
S,.irrx, Ckief):'.tice, and YZAT S, f li6C''.

SUPREME COURT Or PENNSYLVANIA.

9-09

by Dewees does not, in the opinion of the Court, justify the de- 1800.
fendant's taking and sale. (3)
2d. It has been objected, for the defendants, that the plaintiff
was bound to show, that the distress was made on the premises;
whereas, at least, a part of the goods appears to have been distrained elsewhere. However available this objection might have
been upon a replevin, between the original parties, we do not
think, that.third persons can take advantage of it.
3d. It is urged, that there were a number of young cattle taken
on the distress; and that as these have been fed, and reared, by
the care and cost of Dewees, he had acquired a property in their
increased value. Of the truth and operation of this allegation,
the jury will consider: and, if they are of opinion, that the expense of maintaining, has exceeded a fair compensation for the
use of the cattle, they will make" a reasonable deduction from the
plaintiff's demand.
Verdict for the
plaintiff.

Morris's Lessee versus Neighman. (1)
V7 JECTMENT for land, on the north-west of the rivers Ohio
"J.i and Alleghany, and.Conewango creek.
The plaintiff claimed under a warrant, dated the 4th of M1arch
1793,. on which a survey was executed, of the 12th of November
1794; but he had made no endeavour to settle the land, till .uly
1796..
The defendant claimed as an actual settler, under a settlement
commenced in the year 1796, prior to any attempt by the plaintiff; and upon a presumption, that the plaintiff had incurred an
absolute forfeiture of his rights, by not making a settlement
within two years, from the.date of his warrant, according to the
terms of the act of the 3d of April 1792. 3 State Laws, 209.
Dal. edit.
But by the COURT, in the charge to the jury, two points were,
expressly decided: ist. That the plaintiff did not forfeit his rights,
by not making a settlement within two years from the date of
his warrant. It is notoi'iois, that an Indian war existed from
the year 1790, until general Wayne's treaty, which was made on
the 3d of August 1795, and ratified on the 23d of Decenzber 1795.
The ratification of this treaty is to be considered. as the terminus
(^) The defendant's counsel cited the following cases on this point: .1 Co. 81.
2 T. Rep. 594, 5, 6. 1 Wils. 44. But see .Levy v. Wallis, ante, p. 167, 8. Chancellor v. Phillips, pwt. The United States v. cunningham, post.
(1) Tried at Pittsburgh, Circuit Court, May 1800, before YZATES and
S.-rV,

VOL-. IV.

2ustaceu.

2E

a quo,

