SuP! E E COURT Or PENNSYLVANIA.
466. 5 T. Rep. 599. Cowp. 341. Carth. 252. Cro. E. 788. 11o.
165. .Esp. 88. 2 Wils. 133. 32 H. 8. c. 9. Zkoore, 564.

For the defendant in error, his right to recover the debt was
maintained on various grounds: 1st. Because the bill, or note, is
good at common law. 2d. Because the drawer of the note, received a consideration for it. 3d. Because it was given witiout
fraud, or imposition, under a knowledge of all the circumstances.
4th. Because it would be good even as a voluntary bond. 5th.
Because it is not rendered void by any statilte; the acts of assembly subjecting an intruder to indictment and eviction, but never,
in any instance, declaring a contract for the land, or a security
for the price, to be unlawful and void. 6th. That it is not
against the policy of the law (as in the cases cited upon smuggling) to allow a recovery of the debt. 3 State Laws, 703. Dall.
edit. 4 Ibid. 198. 1 Burr. 545. Cro. 1. 643. 1 Show. 398. Cowp.
524. 650. 2 Atk. 251. 2 Vez. jun. 422. 1 Wis. 229. 4 Burr.
2069. 3 T. Rep. 418. 2 Burr. 1077. 3 T. Rep. 456. 6 T. Rep.
61. 7 T. Rep. 601. Doug. 670. Bous. &? Pull. 3. Esp. 18.
After great consideration, the Judges delivered their opinions
at large, seriatim, pronouncing the contract, on which the bill, or
note, was given, to be unlawful, immoral, and against the public
policy of the law. They, therefore, decided, that no Court of
justice in Pennsylvania could lend its aid to effectuate such a
contract; and, consequently, reversed the judgment of the Court
of Common Pleas. (2)

Judgment reversed.
IV. Tilghman, for the plaintiff in error.
Rawle., for the defendant in error.

Passmore versus Pettit and Bayard.

T

HIS case came before the Court, on exceptions to the feport of referees, who had exercised the right of appointing
an umpire, under the rule of reference. After argument by A.
Levy, for the plaintiff, and by MKean and Dallas, for the defendants, the Chief 7ustice delivered the unanimous opinion of
the Court, for setting aside the report, on the following grounds:
By the COURT: 1st. When an umpire
he stands in the same situation, precisely,
selves, both with respect to powers to be
to be performed. He may examine, and

is chosen by referees,
as the referees themexercised, and duties
he ought to examine,

(2) The same principle has been decided in .Aaybin, surviving Partner,E,:
v. Coulon; and in Duncznson v. MLure; both cases of contravening the act of'
congress, for registering vessels of the United State3.

.071
1803.

7;S

CASS RULED AND ADJUDGED IN THr.

i803. the witnesses, and.the docufhents, for himself, in the presence
k-.-i of the parties, without relying solely upon the information or
facts reported by the referees. This rule was settled in the case
of Falconer v. Mdntgornery; (1) and it is highly important to
the administration of justice, that it should be observed. It has
not been observed upon the presenft occasion; and, therefore,
the report cannot be confirmed.
2d. Again: it is essential to the fair and satisfactory investigation of facts, that an opportunity should be afforded to obtain
and produce the necessary evidence, however distant the scene
of the transaction may be. A Court of justice will always allow
time, for the execution and return of a commission, wh en witnesses reside abroad. In the present case, the question turned
upon the sea-worthiness of a ship; and time Was asked by the
defendants to produce testimony from Halifax, where she had
undergone a survey and repairs. This was refused, without any
reason to suppose, that the object in asking it was mere delay
and vexation. The refusal has deprived the party of the means
of defence before the referees; and we cannot think it just, to
place him out of the reach of all .remedy, by confirming the
fiport.
3d. Ori the subject of the reference, all the testiinony should be
heard, all the documents should be seen, by both the parties, in the
presence of the referees. But it appears, that a paper, or ex pArte
affidavit, was produced before the referees and umpire, respecting
the sea-worthiness of the ship (the very gist of the controversy)
which the defendants never had an opportunity of reading, or examining. The referees and umpire are, undoubtedly, honest men;
but they have .erred in judgment; and their errors cannot be sanctioned, by an affirmance of the report, which their errors alone
may have produced.
The report was, accordingly, set aside, and the judgment
entered upon it, opened.

Bell versus Beveridge.
HIS was an action upon an open policy, dated the 10th of
LMarch 1793, on goods on board the Andrew, capt. Macken,
bound from Charleston to Amsterdam. The ship, sailing on the
voyage insured, was captured,' on the l1th of April 1793, by a
French privateer, and carried into L'Orient, where, after a few
days deteption, she was acquitted and restored. On the 26th of
April 1793, however, the French government seized the cargo,
for public use, promising to pay a Hiberal fixed price for it to the
owners; but, after repeated bolic:tations, the consignee, in 1796,
T

(2j See a.e, P. 232.'

abandoned

