MISSIONARY SOCIETY

v. DALLES.

[Sup. Gt.

MISSIONARY SOCIETY v. DALLES.
1. Under the act of Aug. 14, 1848, c. 177, entitled "An Act to establish the territorial government of Oregon," a religious society acquired no title to publie lands by reason of its occupation of them as a missionary station among
the Indian tribes, unless such occupation actually existed at that date.
2. Where, therefore, a religious society appropriated certain lands in the Territory of Oregon, erected improvements thereon and occupied them for such
a missionary station, but its occupation ceased before that date, and a portion of them, after the town-site dcts took effect, was, pursuant to their
provisions, entered and paid for, and another portion was claimed by a party
who had fully complied with the requirements of the act of Sept. 27, 1850,
c. 76, commonly called the Donation Act,-Held, that the society to which
by reason of such occupation a patent bad been issued held the title to
such portions in trust for the parties claiming respectively under the donation and the town-site acts.
3. Prior to the said act of Sept. 27, 1850, no person could, by entry or preemption settlement, acquire as against the United States any right or title
to public land in Oregon. Stark v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 402, cited upon this point
and approved.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Oregon.
This was a bill in equity filed by Dalles City, against the
Missionary Society of the Methodist Episcopal Church.
The following facts are disclosed by the pleadings and evidence: The complainant was incorporated by an act of the
legislature of Oregon passed Jan. 26, 1857, which was amended
by an act passed Jan. 20, 1859. By the last-named act the
boundaries of the city were established. A large portion of
the land within them was, in the year 1852, settled upon and
occupied, not for agricultural uses, but as a town site for the
purposes of business and trade, and it has been so occupied ever
since. During the year 1855 the lawfully constituted authorities of the county, within which the city was situate, caused
the land so occupied to be surveyed and platted into lots,
blocks, streets, and alleys, and the plat thereof to be recorded
in the recorder's office of the county. A survey made by
the United States of the land was approved Feb. 4, 1860, and
the corporate authorities of the city entered, April 19, 1860,
at the land-office of the United States, the land, being the
fractional northwest quarter of section three, in township one,
of range thirteen east, containing one hundred and twelve

Oct. 1882.]

MISSIONARY SOCIETY

v.

DALLES.

acres, in trust for the several use and benefit of the occupants
thereof, according to their respective interests. All this was
done in pursuance of the act of July 17, 1854, c. 84, by which
the provisions of the act of "May 23, 1844, c. 17, were extended
to the Territory of Oregon. The fractional quarter is the
land occupied by the city as a town site. The corporate
authorities paid therefor to the receiver of the land-office one
dollar and twenty-five cents per acre, and the city claims that
it thereby acquired title thereto in trust as afdresaid.
The Missionary Society of the Methodist Episcopal Church,
a corporation organized under the laws of the State of New
York, claims to own in fee-simple a tract of land containing six
hundred and forty-three acres and thirty-seven hundredths of
an acre, for which a patent bearing date July 9, 1875, was
issued to it by the United States. The land described in the
patent includes the fractional quarter in question.
The city, by the bill filed in this case, asserts the validity
of its title to the fractional quarter, and avers that, in violation of its rights, the patent was improvidently issued to the
Missionary Society. It prays for a decree, declaring it to be
the owner of the fractional quarter in trust for the use and
benefit of the owners and occupants thereof, and directing the
defendant to convey the legal title in and to the land to the
city, to be held by it in trust for the respective occupants
thereof.
The remaining facts are set forth in the opinion of the
court.
Upon final hearing, the Circuit Court rendered a decree in
favor of the city, in accordance with the prayer of the bill.
This appeal is prosecuted to reverse that decree.
Hr. B. L. Pancker for the appellant.
The record establishes beyond controversy that the Methodist Missionary Society founded a missionary station at The
Dalles in 1836, and labored among the Indians there until
September, 1847. The society then provided for a continued
occupation of the station, for the purposes for which it had
been established, by annexing to the permitted occupancy of
it by the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions an express condition that such missionary work should
VOL. XVii.

22

MISSIONARY SociETY v. DALLES.

[Sup. Ob.

be continued there as usual. In November following, Dr.
Whitman, the superintendent of the station, and others were
murdered, and his employds fled from the station. The Cayuse war was then waging. By reason of Indian hostilities,
the society was prevented from reoccupying the station in the
strict sense of having its missionaries there actually treading
the soil until the spring of 1850. The United States troops,
at the breaking out of that war, took possession of the mission
buildings, established a post there, and reserved for military
uses three hundred and fifty acres within the limits of the tract
claimed and surveyed by the Missionary Society. Congress,
by an act passed in June, 1860, indemnified the society for the
land thus taken. The remainder which is now in controversy
is therefore claimed under a title which Congress recognized
to be valid. There were no rival claimants until after the
land had been surveyed, and the survey filed in the proper
office. It is submitted, 1. Therb having been an actual and uninterrupted possession
of the land for missionary purposes from 1836, until the compulsory cesser of occupation by reason of Indian hostilities,
there was, in the absence of any adverse possession or claim,
an occupation of the land within the meaning of the confirmatory act of 1848. The title of the society drew to it the
possession, although at the date of the act there was not an
actual pedis possessio.
2. The society, if it acquired a right to the lands, was dntitled to a patent therefor. It was the province of the Land
Department to determine whether the facts which authorized
the issue of the patent existed, and its finding on tha4 question
is conclusive. Quinby v. Conlan, 104 U. S. 420.
Mr. John H. Mitchell and Mr. James Y. Kelly for the
appellee.
MR. JusTicE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.

It is clear, and does not seem to be disputed, that the title
of the appellee to the fractional quarter of land described in
the bill is good and valid against all the world except the appellant, the Missionary Society of the Methodist Episcopal
Church. It was acquired by virtue of an entry made at the

Oct. 1882.]

MISSIONARY SociETY v. DALLES.

339

proper land-office, in pursuance of the provisions of the act of
May 23, 1844, c. 17, and the act of July 17, 1854, c. 84. The
controversy arises upon the claim of the appellant, which
contends that its title is better and superior to that of the
appellee.
The patent from the United States to the appellant for
the land was issued by virtue of sect. 2447 of the Revised
Statutes, and, as directed by that section, declares as follows:
"That this patent shall only operate as a relinquishment of
title on the part of the United States, and shall in no manner
interfere with any valid adverse right to the same land, nor be
construed to preclude a legal investigation and decision by the
proper judicial tribunal between adverse claimants to the same
land."
It is, therefore, clear that the patent does not conclude this
controversy, and that if the United States had, at the date of the
patent, no title to the lands described therein, the patent conveyed none. But both parties contend that they acuired the
title of the United States long before the date of the patent.
As the appellee is conceded to have primafacie a good title, the
appellant is driven to show a better title, independently of the
patent. This it has undertaken to do. The only question in
the case, therefore, is, has it succeeded in establishing a title
to the premises superior to that under which the appellee
claims, and by virtue of which it is in possession.
The appellant asserts title under the provisions of the first
section of the act of Aug. 14, 1848, c. 177, entitled "An
Act to establish the territorial government of Oregon," which,
among other things, declares: "That the title to the land, not
exceeding six hundred and forty acres, now occupied as missionary stations among the Indian tribes in said Territory, together
with the improvements thereon, be confirmed and established
in the several religious societies to which said missionary stations respectively belong." The appellant contends that on
that date it was, within the meaning of the statute, occupying
the land now in dispute as a missionary station among the
Indian tribes of Oregon. Whether this contention is well
founded is the turning-point of the controversy.
It appears from the testimony in the record that in the

MISSIONARY SOCIETY v. DALLES.

[Sup. t

year 1836 or 1837 a missionary station was established by the
Missionary Society of the Methodist Episcopal Church, under
the superintendence of Rev. Jason Lee, on the land now in
controversy, situate on the Columbia River, east of the Cascade
Mountains, at a place then called Wascopum, but since then
known as The Dalles. In 1844 Lee was succeeded by Rev.
George Gary, who continued to be the superintendent of the
station until July, 1847, when he was succeeded by Rev. William Roberts. At this time there were at the station a twostory dwelling-house, a school-house, which was used also as a
church, a store-house with cellar underneath, a barn, some
farming land enclosed, and farming utensils.
In August, 1847, Mr. Roberts, being still the superintendent
of the station, transferred it to Dr. M. Whitman, a missionary
of the society known as the American Board of Commissioners
for Foreign Missions. An account of this transfer is given in
the testimony of Mr. Roberts, as follows: "In August, 1847, I transferred the said station into the
hands of Dr. M. Whitman at the assent of the A. B. C. F. M.
The mission station was placed in his hands on the conditions
and with the understanding that it should be occupied by them
for the use and benefit of the Indians residing in that place
and vicinity. For the movable property they were to pay
such an amount as might mutually be agreed upon. For the
station itself they were to give no compensation, the understanding being all the while that the mission was to be maintained by them for the use and benefit of the Indians in a
religious point of view, which included the education of the
children, the instruction of the Indian parents in all matters
pertaining to their religious interests and temporal well-being.
The reasons for the transfer without compensation were briefly
these: The Methodist mission had but one station east of the
Cascades and more work in the Willamette than they could
well attend to. The American Board had three stations in
the upper country, and it was quite desirable for them to have
The Dalles also, as it was the key to that entire region, and as
an act of Christian regard and confidence the transfer was thus
made.
"The amount which Dr. Whitman was to pay for the mov-

Oct. 1882.]

MISSIONARY SociETY

v.

I)ALLES.

able property was subsequently fixed at a fraction over six
hundred dollars. This included a large canoe, farming utensils, fanning-mill, some wheat," &c.
Payment of the $600 was made by a draft drawn by Dr.
Whitman, dated in September, 1847, upon the American Board.
Mr. Roberts, Rev. Alvin F. Waller, and M11Ir. Brewer, the
latter two, up to the date of the transfer, having been in the
occupancy of the mission, left the station immediately after
the transfer and went down the Columbia River. They carried off their movable property -which had not been sold to
Dr. Whitman. Dr. Whitman, to whom the station had been
transferred, remained there a few days and then returned to
his home at Wailatpu, distant about one hundred and forty
miles. He left his nephew, Perrin B. Whitman, a youth seventeen years of age, at The Dalles in possession of the buildings
which had been occupied by the Methodist missionaries. On
Nov. 29,1847, Dr. Whitman was, with his family and a number
of other persons, murdered by the Cayuse Indians at his home
at Wailatpu. When news of this massacre reached Perrin B.
Whitman, he abandoned The Dalles and went down the Columbia River, leaving no one in the occupancy of the station.
After the transfer of the station by Roberts to Whitman
in August, 1847, the record does not show that any missionary labors were ever performed at The Dalles, either by the
Methodist Society or the American Board, except two or three
religious services held by Mr. Waller in June, 1850, when he
went to The Dalles to show Mr. Roberts the boundaries of the
mission claim. After the month of August, 1847, no person
representing the Methodist Missionary Society, and after December, 1847, no person representing the American Board,
ever occupied the missionary station at The Dalles.
The reason assigned by the appellant why the American
Board abandoned the station and why possession of it was not
resumed by the Methodist Society was the fear of Indian
hostilities.
It follows that on Aug. 14, 1848, when the act to organize
the Territory of Oregon was passed, the station was not in the
occupancy of any one representing either of the missionary
societies.

MISSIONARY SocIETY

v.

DALLES.

[Sup. Ct.

About the last of February or the first of March, 1849,
Messrs. Walker, Spaulding, and Eels, three missionaries of the
American Board, delivered a writing to Mr. Roberts, in which
they "offered for his acceptance the mission station at Wascopum, near the Grand Dalles of the Columbia River," and proposed "that it be retransferred to the Oregon Mission of the
Methodist Episcopal Church in the same manner in which it
was received by the Oregon Mission of the American Board of
Commissioners for Foreign Missions." The draft given to Mr.
Roberts for the movable property at the Dalles, sold by him to
Dr. Whitman in August, 1847, was delivered up, it having
never been paid.
The appellant did not resume missionary work at The Dalles
after this attempt to retransfer, nor did it take possession of
the premises.
. In June, 1850, Mr. Roberts returned to The Dalles for the
purpose of making a survey of the six hundred and forty acres
which he proposed to claim for the Missionary Society of the
Methodist Episcopal Church under the act of 1848. He made
a survey and had it recorded.
On Feb. 28, 1859, several years after the lands in controversy had been entered and paid for by Dalles City, the American Board delivered to the Missionary Society of the Methodist
Episcopal Church a release of all their right and title to "the
property in the vicinity of The Dalles on the Columbia River,
known as the ' mission property.' "
The question is presented whether, upon these facts, the
appellant, the Missionary Society of the Methodist Episcopal
Church, has shown a better title to the lands in controversy
than that of Dalles City, the appellee.
The title claimed by the appellant is based entirely upon
the first section of the act of Aug. 14, 1848, before referred
to. This was a public grant. In -Dubuque P Paoific Bailroad Co. v. Litchfield, 23 How. 66, it was said by this court,
speaking of a public grant of land: "All grants of this description are strictly construed against the grantees. Nothing
passes but what is conveyed in clear and explicit language."
See also Jackson v. Lamphire, 3 Pet. 280; Beaty v. Lessee of
Knowler, 4 id. 152; Providence Bank v. Billings, id. 514;

Oct. 1882.]

MISSIONARY SociETY v. DALLES.

Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 id. 420; Leavenworth, &e. Railroad Co. v. United States, 92 U. S. 733.
The act of Aug. 14, 1848, confirms and establishes title to
land occupied at the date of the act as missionary stations
among the Indian tribes. The words are "now occupied."
To occupy means to hold in possession ; to hold or keep for
use; as to occupy an apartment. Webster's Dictionary. The
appellant contends that this act confers title on it for lands
which it did not occupy at the date of the act, but which it
had voluntarily abandoned eleven months before, and the occupancy of which it never resumed, either for missionary or any
other purposes. Not even a liberal construction would support
such a claim.
But the appellant, conceding that it was not in the actual
occupancy of the premises, either as a missionary station or
otherwise, at the date of the passage of the act, nevertheless
insists that, being in actual occupancy in August, 1847, it
transferred its rights therein to the American Board, on condition that the latter society should maintain a mission there for
the benefit of the Indians, and that, as the American Board
failed to maintain such a mission and abandoned the premises, the rights of the appellant reverted to it, and it, therefore, had a constructive possession when the act of Aug. 14,
1848, was passed, which brought it within the meaning of
the act.
We do not think this contention can be sustained. In the
first place, it cannot be fairly inferred from the testimony in
the record that the transfer of the missionary station was a
conditional one, and that it was any part of the contract that
the rights of the appellant should revert to it if the condition were broken. It is plain that the transfer was absolute. Doubtless it was the expectation of the appellant that
the transferee would conduct upon the premises a mission for
the religious benefit of the Indians, and such doubtless was the
purpose of the American Board. But it does not appear to
have been any part of the contract that, if the American
Board failed to carry on such a mission, the appellant should
resume possession.
But conceding that such was the understanding between the

MISSIONARY SOCIETY

v.

DALLES.

[Sup. Ct.

parties, there is still a fatal obstacle to any claim on the part
of the appellant. When the appellant was in the occupancy
of the premises in controversy, and when it made the transfer of possession in August, 1847, and until the passage of the
said act of Aug. 14, 1848, that part of the country was without
an organized territorial government under the laws of the
United States. The public domain included within the Territory of Oregon by the act just mentioned had not then been
surveyed, nor was it open to settlement, pre-emption, or entry.
Stark v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 402. The title was in the United
States, subject to the possessory Indian title to portions of the
Territory, and there was no law by which any person or company could acquire title from the government. All persons,
therefore, who settled upon the public lands acquired no rights
thereby as against the government. They were merely tenants by sufferance. The most they could claim was the right
of actual occupancy as against other settlers. Such an occupant could yield his right of actual possession to another settler, but he could convey no other interest in the land. If he
abandoned the land and another settler occupied it, the former
lost all right to the possession. If he transferred the possession
to another and the transferee abandoned the land, the first possessor could claim no right in the land unless he again took
actual possession. In short, the settler had no right as against
the government, and no rights .under the laws of the United
States as against any one else to the possession of the land in
his actual occupancy, except ind only so long as such occupancy continued.
It is true that before the passage of the act of Aug. 14,
1848, to organize a eterritorial government for Oregon, the
people of that Territory had, in June and July, 1845, met by
their delegates in convention and adopted laws and regulations
for their government "until such time," as they declared, "as
the United States of America extend jurisdiction over us."
In this plan of government it was provided that any one wishing to establish a claim to land should designate the extent of
his claim by line marks, and have it recorded in the office of
the territorial recorder. The appellant cannot derive any title
from this regulation, for it never defined the extent of its claim

Oct. 1882.]

MISSIONARY SOCIETY V. DALLES.

by boundaries and never recorded the same, as required by the
regulation, until long after the passage of that act, the fourteenth section of which declares as follows: "All laws heretofore passed in said Territory making grants of land, or otherwise
affecting or incumbering the title to lands, shall be, and are
hereby declared to be, null and void."
Referring to this act, this court declared in Lownsdale v.
.ParriA, 21 How. 290, that Congress passed no law in any
wise affecting title to lands in Oregon till the passage of the
act of Sept. 27, 1850, c. 76, and that prior to that date no one
could acquire any title to or interest in the public lands in that
Territory.
It follows that there could be no constructive possession of
the public lands. When, therefore, in August, 1847, the appellant voluntarily abandoned its possession of the lands in controversy to another missionary society, it lost every shadow of
claim thereto. Its right was a mere possessory right, without
other title. It had no rights which it could reserve. When
the American Board, in December, 1847, abandoned the lands
in controversy the appellant had no rights therein. The reasons which induced the abandonment of the lands by the missionary societies, whether a new policy on the part of the
appellant or fear of the Indians on the part of the American
Board, are entirely immaterial. When the lands were abandoned for any reason all right in them was lost, and 'they were
open to the occupancy of any one who might choose to take
and hold them.
The method adopted by the appellant to turn over the station to the American Board by an actual transfer of possession
was as effectual as any could be. It could be done only by
yielding the actual occupancy, and this could not be effected
by a written transfer. It could be accomplished only .by the
going out of one party and the going in of the other.
If the appellant had, in August, 1847, executed the most
formal deed, conveying the lands to the American Board, and
had stipulated therein that on failure of the latter to maintain
a mission thereon for the benefit of the Indians, or upon its
abandonment of the lands, all the rights of the appellant should
revert to it, and it should be entitled to resume immediate

MISSIONARY SOCIETY v. DALLES.

[Sup. Or.

possession, such a writing would have been inoperative and
futile. The appellant had no rights in the land which it could
convey, and no rights which it could reserve.
These views are supported by Stringfellow v. Gain, 99 U. S.
610, brought up from the Territory of Utah. The act of
March 2, 1867, c. 177, "for the relief of the inhabitants of
cities and towns upon the public lands," provides that whenever any portion of the public lands of the United States has
been or shall be settled upon and occupied as a town site, and
therefore not subject to entry under the agricultural preemption laws, it shall be lawful for the authorities of the town
to enter the lands so settled and occupied in trust for the
several use and benefit of the occupants thereof, the execution of which trust to be conducted under such rules as the
legislature of the State or Territory may prescribe. Under
this act, it was held in that case that where a party had been
in the occupancy of a lot, but prior to the passage of the
act voluntarily withdrew therefrom and gave it up to others,
the rights, which depended on keeping the possession, were
gone.
The appellant contends that the language of the first section
of the act of Aug. 14, 1848, under which it claims, implies
that it had some title to thb lands in question before the act
was passed. It places stress on the words "that the title to
the lands be confirmed and established in the several religious
societies to which said missionary stations respectively belong," and says there must have been some previous title
which could be confirmed and established.
We have seen that it was not possible to acquire any title as
against the United States before the passage of this act. If,
therefore, the force is to be given to the words of the statute
which the appellant claims for them they must refer to the
possessory title under the regulations above mentioned of the
provisional government. But no steps, as we have seen, were
taken by appellant to establish its claim under those regulations. It had simply settled upon the public domain as a
tenant by sufferance, without authority of any law or regulation
of any government, and had done no act by which it could acquire any claim of title. Whatever, therefore, maay have been

Oct. 1882.]

MISSIONARY SociETY

v. DALLES.

the case with other missionary societies, the appellant bad no
title of any kind which could be confirmed and established by
the act. The American Board was in no better position.
Neither of the societies acquired any title under the act of
1848. The writing executed in 1849 by Messrs. Walker,
Spaulding, and Eels, and the release made by the American
Board to the appellant in 1859, after Dalles City had entered
and paid for the land, and the patent of the United States in
1875, which was a mere release, conveyed no rights in the
lands in controversy to the appellant.
The decree of the Circuit Court was, therefore, right, and
must be
Affirmed.
NoTE. - Aissionary Society v. Kelly. Missionary Society v. Wait.
Appeals from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Oregon.
These cases were submitted at the same time and by the same counsel as was
the preceding case.
Mn. JUSTICE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases were in all respects similar to Missionary Society v. Dalles, supra,
p. 330, except that the appellees claimed under a title different from that relied
on by Dalles City. So far as the title of the appellant is concerned, they and
that case were tried upon the same evidence. It follows, that if the appellees in
these cases show an equitable title in themselves, the decree should be affirmed.
This they have done. They all claim title under one Winsor D. Bigelow, whose
title was derived under the act of Sept. 27, 1850, c. 76, commonly called the Donation Act. This act gave, upon certain conditions, to every white settler upon
the public lands, being a citizen of the United States, above the age of eighteen
years, a half section of land if he were a single man, and a whole section if lie
were a married man. The record clearly shows a full compliance by Bigelow
with the law, and establishes his right to the lands in controversy, which lie
afterwards conveyed to the appellees in these cases. The decree of the Circuit
Court in each of these cases, which is elmilar to the decree in that case, is therefore right and should be affirmed; and it is
So ordered.

