Oct. 1882.]

ALLEN V. MCVEIGH.

able on the cargo. At any rate, there is nothing in the record
as it now stands to make it proper for us to remand the cause
for further proceedings under this new claim.

.Decreeaffirmed.

ALLEn v. MOVEIGE.
1. Where, in an action brought in a court of Virginia against an indorser of
promissory notes, payable August, 1861, at Alexandria in that State, the
point in controversy being as to tile sufficiency of the notices of dishonor,
and tile court decided in substance that by the general principles of commercial law, if, during the late civil war, he abandoned his residence in
loyal territory and went to reside permanently within the Confederate lines
before the note matured, a notice left at his former residence was not
sufficient to charge him, if his change of residence was known, or by the
exercise of reasonable diligence might have been knovn, to the holder of
the note when it matured, - Hed, that no Federal question was raised by
the decision.
2. Where the plaintiff's prayer for instructions relates also to tile Virginia ordinance of secession and the proclamations of the President of April, 1861,
and Aug. 16, 1861, but, as the case stood upon the evidence, neither of them
was involved, and no title, right, privilege, or immunity thereunder was
claimed by either party, -Held, that the prayer was properly refused;
and, the only Federal question thereby sought to be raised having been
correctly disposed of, this court cannot consider the other errors assigned.

ErROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of
Virginia.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court.
A1. Hierome 0. Clau.qhton for the plaintiff in error.
Xr. Philip _Phillips, Mr. T. Hallett Phillips, and Mr. wilUam A. Xllaury for the defendant in error.
MRu. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a suit against William N. McVeigh, as indorser of
two promissory notes, and the matter in dispute is as to the
sufficiency of the notices of dishonor. The notes fell due, one
on the 2d and the other on the 23d of August, 1861, at the
E:change Bank of Virginia in Alexandria. The notary, in his
certificate of protest, stated that he had delivered "a notice of
VOL. XVII.

28

434

ALLEN V. MOVEIGH.

[Sup. Ct.

protest to William N. MeVeigh by leaving it at his dwelling
in the hands of his white servant," and the issue on the trial
was as to whether the house at which the notice was left was
in fact the dwelling of McVeigh at the time. Upon this point
McVeigh testified, in substance, that at some time previous to
the 24th of May, 1861, he sent his family to his farm in Culpeper County, Virginia; that he remained at his home in Alexandria until after the military forces of the United States took
possession of the city, which was the 24th of May; that on the
30th of May, under a pass from the United States authorities,
he left his home, and went within the Confederate lines to join
his family, with the intention of not returning so long as the
city remained in the possession of the United States, which he
supposed would be but a short time; that he left in his house
a white woman about seventy years of age, who had been for
many years his servant, and three colored servants, who were
slaves; that he did not discharge his white servant, but advised
her to go to the country; that on leaving he had great doubts
whether he would ever see his property in Alexandria again;
that he remained with his family in Culpeper until the fall of
1861, when he removed to Richmond and engaged in business
there; and that he remained in Richmond until 1874, when he
returned with his family to Alexandria.
At the close of the testimony the court, at the request of
McVeigh, charged the jury that "if on or about the 30th of
May, 1861, and prior to the maturity of the notes sued on,
William N. McVeigh, having previously sent his family, went
himself within the Confederate military lines with the intention of not returning to Alexandria during its occupation by
the United States forces, and accordingly remained with his
family continuously within the Confederate military lines
throughout the whole period of the war, and did not return to
Alexandria with his family until the year 1874; that such
absence at the maturity of said notes, respectively, was known,
or, by the exercise of reasonable diligence, must have been
known, to the Exchange Bank of Virginia, at Alexandria;
that at the time of said maturity the armed forces of the
United States and of the Confederate States confronted each
other on lines immediately intervening between the city of

Oct. 1882.]

ALLEN V. M VEIGH.

Alexandria and the said William N. McVeigh, so as to cut off
and prevent actual intercourse between the two, and such intervention continued down to the end of the war, the notice
of dishonor shown by the notarial certificates of protest is
not sufficient to fix the liability of William N. MeVeigh as
indorser, and the jury must find for him."
This instruction is substantially the same as that considered
in Bank v. Mfe eigzh, 98 U. S. 332, and which we held did not
present a Federal question. The only difference, even in
language, between the instructions in the two cases consists in
what is said in this about the establishment and maintenance
of the opposing lines of military forces and the prevention of
actual intercourse, which was not in the other. No importance
was given in the argument, however, to this difference, and it
may as well be said now, as it was before, that "All the court
below decided was, that by the general principles of commercial law, if, during the late civil war, an indorser of a promissory note abandoned his residence in loyal territory, and went
to reside permanently within the Confederate lines before the
note matured, a notice of protest left at his former residence
in the loyal territory was not sufficient to charge him, if his
change of residence was known, or by the exercise of reasonable diligence might have been known, to the holder of the
note when it matured." Under the question raised by the
charge as given, therefore, we have no jurisdiction.
But the plaintiff asked of the court certain instructions,
which were not given, and error is assigned for this. The
fourth of these requests presents all the questions relied on,
and was as follows: "If the jury believe from the evidence that the notes sued
on were discounted by the Exchange Bank of Virginia at
Alexandria before their maturity, or that they were renewals
of notes theretofore discounted ; that at the time of discount
the makers, indorser, and indorsee were residents of said city;
that before the maturity of the said notes the Federal forces had
taken permanent possession of said city; that after such possession the indorser, William N. MoVeigh, left his residence
in said city, with the intention of returning thereto, and went
within the Confederate lines to join his family, at the time visit-

ALLEN V. M1OVEIGH.

[Sup. Ct.

ing in the county of Culpeper; that the said indorser, at the
time the said notes respectively became due, was within the
Confederate lines in adherence to the Southern Confederacy in
obedience to the Virginia ordinance of secession, - the court
instructs the jury that the said ordinance of secession was of no
binding force or obligation; that neither the proclamations of
the President of the United States, issued in April, 1861, and
Aug. 16, 1861, nor the existence of the war, nor the ordinance
of secession of the State of Virginia, obliged the said indorser
to be absent from his residence in Alexandria, nor relieved the
holder of said notes from giving him notice of the dishonor
and protest thereof ; that such absence was voluntary, and did
not affect the rights and duties of the parties to said notes.
And if the jury believe from the evidence that at the time the
said notes respectively fell due the said indorser had not abandoned his intention to return to Alexandria, and had not
acquired a domicile elsewhere, and that the notes sued on were
duly dishonored and protested, and on the day thereof notice
of such dishonor and protest was left at the residence of the indorser in Alexandria with his white servant in charge of the
same, such notice was sufficient to bind the indorser, and the
jury must find for the plaintiff, if they further believe from
the evidence that he is the bona fide holder of said notes."
The only point presented by this request, not disposed of by
the charge as actually given, is that which relates to the ordinance of secession and the proclamations of the President.
The plaintiff claimed no "title, right, privilege, or immunity,"
either under the ordinance or the proclamations; neither did
the defendant. The issue in the case -was as to the fact of a
change of residence by the, defendant, not as to his power to
make a change. The plaintiff did not claim that by reason of the
ordinance, or the proclamation, or even the existence of actual
-war,the defendant was prevented from abandoning his home in
Alexandria and taking up another inside the Confederate lines.
Neither did the defendant claim that the ordinance, the proclamation, or the war, of themselves, made the notice left at his
former home insufficient. The ultimate fact to be determined
was whether, when the notice was left at the house formerly
occupied by the defendant, it was left at his place of residence.

Oct. 1882.]

MERRIAM V. UNITED STATES.

As the case stood upon the evidence, the ordinance of secession
and the proclamations were in no way involved. The plaintiff
claimed nothing under them; neither did the defendant. The
charge in respect to them, as requested, was therefore immaterial, and was properly refused. As this presented the only
Federal question in the case, and it was correctly disposed of,
we cannot consider the other errors assigned.
Hurdoclc v.
City of 3femkis, 20 Wall. 590.
Judgment affirmed.

MERRIAM V. UNITED STATES.
1. In construing contracts, a court may look not only to their terms, but to their
subject-matter and the surrounding circumstances, and avail itself of the
same light which at the time of making them the parties possessed.
2. Under the contract sued on in this case, infra, p. 439, the United States was
not bound to receive a greater quantity of oats than that which" is therein
specifically mentioned.

from the Court of Claims.
Merriam brought suit in the Court of Claims against the
United States to recover damages for their breach of a contract by which he agreed to sell and deliver, and they to
receive and pay for, a quantity of oats. His petition was dis-,
missed, and he appealed.
That court found the following facts: The Chief Quartermaster of the Military Department of Dakota published an
advertisement, the parts of which and of the circular therein
referred to, so far as they are material to this case, are as folAPPEAL

lows:-

"CHIEF

QUARTERMASTER'S OFFICE,
"ST. PAUL, Mi-., March

1st, 1877.
"Sealed proposals in triplicate, subject to the usual conditions,
will be received at this office . . . until 12 o'clock noon, on the
twenty-sixth day of April, at which time they will be opened in the
presence of bidders, . . . for fuirnishing and delivering of wood,
coal, grain, hay, and straw, required during the fiscal year commencing July 1, 1877, and ending June 30, 1878, at the following

