Oct. 1882.]

OAMPBELL V. UNITED STATES.

CAMPBELL V.

UNITED STATES.

A party who, under sect. 4 of the act of Aug. 5, 1861, c. 45, is entitled to the
drawback there mentioned may, when payment thereof has been refused,
maintain a suit therefor in the Court of Claims against the United States.

from the Court of Claims.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

Mr. Joseph Hf. Ohoate and Hfr. William M. -Evarts for the
appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- GeneralMaury for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The fourth section of the act of Aug. 5, 1861, c. 45, reads as
follows: "That from and after the passage of this act there
shall be allowed, on all articles wholly manufactured of materials imported, on which duties have been paid, when exported,
a drawback equal in amount to the duty paid on such materials, and no more, to be ascertained under such regulations as
shall be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury: Provided, that ten per centum on the amount of all drawbacks so
allowed shall be retained for the use of the United States by
the collectors paying such drawbacks respectively."
On the 22d of January, 1862, the Secretary established such
regulations as he deemed appropriate, the first of which is
this :
"To entitle the exporter to such allowance of drawback, he
must, at least six hours previous to the putting or lading any
of the articles intended to be exported by him for benefit of
drawback on board any vessel or other conveyance for exportation, lodge with the collector of customs for the district from
which such exportation is to be made, an entry setting forth
his intention to export such articles, and the marks, numbers,
and a particular description of the same, with their quantity
and value, and designating the manufacturer thereof, the place
where deposited, the name of the vessel or other conveyance
in or by which, and the Vort or place to which the same are
intended to be exported, and also describing in such entry the
material or materials severally from which he claims the arti-

CAMPBELL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

cles to have been manufactured, designating when, where,
whence, by whom, and in what vessel or other conveyance the
same was or were imported, and specifying the quantity and
value thereof used in the manufacture. This entry shall, upon
presentation, be verified by the oath or affirmation of the proprietor and the foreman of the manufactory in which such articles were made."
Other regulations require the collector and the surveyor to
make the necessary examination to ascertain if the articles
described in this entry be as stated, and to mark and designate
them accordingly, and to verify the weight, gauge, measure, or
amount, and to superintend the lading for export, &c.
All this having been done, and the oath of the exporter and
his bond, with condition prescribed by the rules, being given,
the collector is to give a certificate of the amount to which the
party is entitled as drawback, on which he is to receive the
money.
George W. Campbell and George A. Thayer, survivors of
Ludlow D. Campbell, deceased, sued in the Court of Claims for
a drawback on account of large amounts of linseed cake made
by them out of linseed imported from a foreign country, and
which cake they exported to London.
Their petition was dismissed by that court, on the ground, as
stated in their opinion, that it was not a case of which they
had jurisdiction.
The court, however, did entertain jurisdiction of the case;
an answer was filed on behalf of the United States denying the
allegations of the petition, testimony was taken, and a full and
elaborate finding of facts was made, and on this, the court, as
a conclusion of law, find that for want of jurisdiction of the
subject-matter the petition is dismissed.
This finding of facts shows that in the months of September,
October, November, and December, 1870, claimants imported
from Calcutta large quantities of linseed, for which they paid
the duty of sixteen cents per hundred pounds according to law,
which was by them, without intermixture with any other linseed or other material, manufactured into linseed oil and linseed cake, of the latter of which article there was produced
therefrom 5,156,585 pounds.

Oct. 1882.]

CAMPBELL V. UNITED STATES.

It was for the exportation of part of this latter product that
the drawback is claimed in this suit. As, however, this was
done by several shipments at different times, and as the finding
of facts is precisely the same in the case of each shipment, except as to date, quantity, and the name of the vessel, we give
here verbatim the finding as to the first: "On the nineteenth day of January, 1871, the claimants and
said Ludlow D. Campbell were the owners of and had in their
possession 447,712 pounds of linseed cake, being parcel of the
aforesaid 5,156,585 pounds, and desiring and intending to export the same from New York to London for the benefit of the
drawback authorized by the fourth section of the ' Act to provide increased revenue from imports to pay interest on the
public debt, and for other purposes,' approved August 5, 1861,
duly presented to and lodged with the collector of customs for
the port of New York, before putting or lading any of the said
cake on board any vessel for exportation, an entry of said linseed cake for export by the ship 'Sterling Castle,' which was
accompanied with the certificate and oath required by, and was
in all respects in conformity with, the regulations prescribed
by the Secretary of the Treasury, in pursuance of the requirement of the fourth section of said act, and the said claimants
and said Ludlow D. Campbell in all respects conformed to such
regulations in respect to drawback, which allowance had been
by said regulations fixed at seventeen cents per one hundred
pounds, and made payable by the United States thirty days
after clearance of the vessel by which exportation was made,
but the said collector, acting under instructions from the Secretary of the Treasury, given on the fifth day of December,
1870, wholly refused to perform or cause to be performed in
any manner any other act than the receipt of said entry prescribed by said regulations to be done, or caused to be done, by
a collector of customs under the said fourth section of said act.
"Thereafter, in the month of January, 1871, the said 447,712
pounds of linseed cake were shipped by the claimants and said
Ludlow D. Campbell, on the said ship ' Sterling Castle,' which
vessel, with said linseed cake on board, cleared at the customhouse at the port of New York for London on the thirtieth day
of January, 1871, and said cake was thereupon exported and

CAMPBELL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

carried by said vessel from New York to the port of London,
in England, and there discharged and delivered, and no part
thereof has been at any time relanded in any port or place
within the limits of the United States."
The argument of counsel for the United States is, that until
the officers of the customs comply with all the regulations of
the Secretary of the Treasury, and the collector issues the
drawback certificate, the law imposes upon the United States
no obligation to pay anything for such drawback; that the law
conferred upon'the Secretary the right to make the regulations,
and the collector the power to make the certificate for payment
of drawback, and that the refusal of the collector to perform
the duties imposed upon him preliminary to making his certificate, and then refusing the certificate, totally defeats the claim
of the party, who, by the law, is guaranteed a right to his drawback, and who has complied with all that the law requires of
him to secure and enforce it. To the same effect is the opinion
of the Court of Claims.
It would be a curious thing to hold that Congress, after
clearly defining the right of the importer to receive drawback
upon subsequent exportation of the imported article on which
he had paid duty, had empowered the Secretary by regulations,
which might be proper to secure the government against fraud,
to defeat totally the right which Congress bad granted. If the
regulations of themselves worked such a result, no court would
hesitate to hold them invalid as being altogether unreasonable.
But the regulations in this case are not unreasonable, nor do
they interpose any obstacle to the full assertion and adjustment of plaintiffs' right. It is the order of the Secretary of
the Treasury forbidding the collector to proceed under these
regulations or in any other mode, which is the real obstacle.
Is that order a defence to this action? Can the Secretary, by
this order, do what he could not do by regulations, - repeal or
annul the law? Can he thus defeat the law he was appointed
to execute, by making regulations, and then, by ordering his
officers not to act under them, and not to act at all, place himself above the law and defy it?
We think the Court of Claims has jurisdiction of such a
claim: 1. Because it is founded on a law of Congress; and, 2.

Oct. 1882.]

CAMPBELL V. UNITED STATES.

Because the facts found in this case raise an implied contract
that the United States will refund to the importer the amount
he paid to the government.
The finding of the court is that, by the regulations, this
allowance 6f drawback had been fixed at seventeen cents per
hundred pounds.
The act of Congress having declared that on exportation
there shall be allowed a drawback equal in amount to the duty
paid on such material, and the Secretary having established by
a regulation that, as regarded the cake resulting from the manufacture of the linseed into oil and cake, the latter represents
at seventeen cents per hundred pounds the duty on the imported seed so converted into cake, there resulted a contract
that when exported the government would refund, repay, pay
back, this amount as a drawback to the importer. If this be
not so, it is because it is impossible to make a contract when
the details of its execution or performance are left to officers
who refuse to carry them out.
So it is equally clear that this claim is founded on the law
allowing drawback.
The Court of Claims makes the mistake of supposing that
the claim is founded on the regulations of the Secretary of the
Treasury. This view cannot be sustained. It is the law which
gives the right, and the fact that the customs officers refuse to
obey these regulations cannot defeat a right which the act of
Congress gives.
The second section of the act of Sept. 20, 1850, c. 84, entitled " An Act to enable the State of Arkansas and other States
to reclaim the ' Swamp Lands' within their limits," declares:
"That it shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Interior,
as soon as may be practicable after the passage of this act, to
make out an accurate list and plats of the lands described as
aforesaid and transmit the same to the governor of the State,
and, at the request of said governor, cause a patent to be issued
to the State therefor; and on that patent the fee-simple to said
lands shall vest in the said State."
This duty was almost wholly neglected by the Secretary.
In the case of Railroad Oompany v. Smith, 9 Wall. 95, 99,
it was insisted that the failure of the Secretary to act made

CAMPBELL V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. CL.

these lands subject to a grant for railroad purposes of a date
subsequent to the swamp-land act. This proposition was thus7
answered by this court: "Must the State lose the land, though
clearly swamp land, because that officer has neglected to do
this? The right of the State did not depend on his action,
but on the act of Congress, and though the States might be
embarrassed in the assertion of this right by the delay or failure of the Secretary to ascertain and make out lists of these
lands, the right of the States to them could not be defeated by
that delay. . . .Any other rule results in this, that because
the Secretary of the Interior has failed to discharge his duty
in certifying these lands to the State, they therefore pass under
a grant from which they are excepted beyond doubt, and this
when it can be proved by testimony capable of producing the
fullest conviction, that they were of the class excluded from
plaintiff's grant," that is, were granted to the State as swamp
lands.
And in French v. _Tyan, 93 U. S.169, 173, the court, reaffirming Railroad Company v. Smith, said: "There was no means,
as this court has decided, to compel him (the Secretary) to act;
and if the party claiming under the State in that case could
not be permitted to prove that the land which the State had
conveyed to him as swamp land was in fact such, a total failure of justice would occur, and the entire grant to the State
might be defeated by this neglect or refusal of the Secretary to
perform his duty."
The application of this reasoning to the present case is too
clear to need illustration.
It is an error to suppose that the officers of customs, including the Secretary, are in regard to this law created a special tribunal to ascertain and decide conclusively upon the right to
drawback. Their function is entirely ministerial. They are
a.thorized to pass upon no question essential to the claimant's
right so as to conclude him in a court of competent jurisdiction.
From the moment he presents his sworn entry, they simply
ascertain quantities, identify and mark packages, accept bonds
and sureties, and see that the exported article leaves the port
in the ship. These and like duties being discharged, it is
the collector's duty - a mere ministerial function - to give the

Oct. 1882.]

CAIPBELL V. UNITED STATES.

certificate of drawback. The amount of it is fixed at seventeen
cents per hundred pounds by the regulation; he has nothing
to do but to calculate the amount at that rate on the nuniber
of pounds shipped. He exercises no judicial or quasi judicial
function. He concludes nobody's rights, and has no power to
do so. The rights which the law gives cannot be defeated by
his refusal to act, nor by his decision that no drawback was
due.
Neither the act of Congress, nor any rule of construction
known to us, makes the claimant's right, when the facts on
which it depends are clearly established, to turn upon the view
which the collector, or the Secretary, or both combined, may
entertain of the law upon that subject, and much less upon their
arbitrary refusal to perform the services which the law imposes
on them.
A suggestion is made that the right to enforce the drawback
in the court is affected by the fact that it is a gratuity.
It has never been supposed that there was a gratuity in all
the cases where imports are free of duty. The purpose of the
drawback provision is to make duty free, imports which are
manufactured here and then returned whence they came or to
some other foreign country, - articles which are not sold or
consumed in the United States. The linseed in this case was
bought abroad and imported for the purpose of being manufactured, and the product immediately sent out of the country.
The drawback provision was simply a mode of making the linseed so imported and exported without distribution in the country duty free, and we see no gratuity in the case.
But if it were a free gift, it is not for the officers of the
government to defeat the will of Congress on this subject by
refusing to execute the law.
We are of opinion that the facts found by the Court of
Claims establish the right of appellants to recover a judgment
for the exported cake at the rate of seventeen cents per hun-

dred pounds; and the cause is remanded with directions to enter
such a judgment.

