Oct. 1882.]

TREDWAY V. SANGER.

MR. CmaiF JUSTICE WAITE, delivered the opinion of the
court.
Section 2928 of the Revised Statutes, a re-enactment of sect.
21 of the act of March 1, 1823, c. 21, relates alone to merchandise taken from a wreck, and does not in any manner affect the
proceedings under sect. 2927, a re-enactment of sect. 52 of the
act of March 2, 1799, c. 22, to obtain an appraisement for an
abatement of duties on account of damages to goods during the
voyage of importation. What was said in Shelton v. The Collector, 5 Wall. 113, 118, to the contrary of this is disapproved.
The subject is so fully and carefully considered in the opinion
of the court below, that we deem it unnecessary to do more
than to refer to the report of the case in 20 Blatchf. 129.
Judgment affirmed.

TREDWAY v. SANGER.
The indorsee of "a promissory note negotiable by the law merchant," which the
maker secured by a mortgage of land to the payee, is not precluded from
maintaining a foreclosure suit in a court of the United States by the fact that
the maker and the payee are citizens of the same State.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
Tredway and Kettelman, citizens of California, having made
two negotiable promissory notes to McLaughlin, a citizen of
that State, executed, to secure the payment of them, to him a
mortgage upon lands there situate. The notes were assigned
to Sanger, a citizen of Pennsylvania, who filed in the court
below his bill of foreclosure against Tredway and Kettelman.
They set up by plea that the assignment of the notes was merely
colorable, in order to give that court jurisdiction. The court
found that the plea was untrue and insufficient. A decree was
rendered in favor of the complainant, reciting that there was
due to him the amount of the note, ordering a sale of the mortthe
gaged premises to satisfy the same, and providing that ifproceeds of the sale be insufficient to pay the debt, interest, and

TREDWAY V. SANGER.[

[Sup. at.

costs, that "the clerk should docket a judgment for the amount
of such deficiency," and execution be issued against the defendants therefor. They thereupon appealed.
lir. A. Chester for the appellants.
It appears by the record that the appellants and McLaughlin are citizens of the same State. The foreclosure of a mortgage, to use the language of this court in Sheldon v. Sill, 8
How. 441, "is the pursuit by action of one debt in two instruments or securities, -the one general, the other special." The
act of March 3,1875, c. 137, upon which the appellee relies,
relates solely to an action to recover the contents of a negotiable security, -whereas this suit is brought to sell the land
and foreclose the mortgagors' equity of redemption. A mortgage is a chose in action; and where the parties to it are citizens of the same State, an assignee is not entitled to maintain
suit thereon in a court of the United States.
Mr. Hlenry Beard and Hr. Charles H. Armes for the appellee.
MR. C=Ef, JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
There is but a single question presented by this appeal, to
wit, whether, if a promissory note, negotiable by the law merchant, is made by a citizen of one State to a citizen of the
same State, and secured by a mortgage from the maker to the
payee, an indorsee of the note can, since the act of March 3,
1875, c. 137, sue in the courts of the United States to foreclose
the mortgage, and obtain a sale of the mortgaged property.
It was held in Sheldon v. Sill, 8 How. 441, that such a suit
could not be maintained under the eleventh section of the
Judiciary Act of 1789, because in equity the mortgage was but
an incident of the debt, and as the indorsee could not sue on
the note, he could not sue to enforce the mortgage. The language of Mr. Justice Grier, speaking for the court in that case,
is this: "The complainant in this case is the purchaser and
assignee of a sum of money, a debt, a chose in action, not of a
tract of land. He seeks to recover by this action a debt assigned to him. He is, therefore, the 'assignee of a chose in
action,' within the letter and spirit of the act of Congress

Oct. 1882.]

OIL CO. V. VAN ETTEN.

under consideration, and cannot support this action in the Circuit Court of the United States, where his assignor could not."
p. 450. This clearly implies that if a suit could be brought
on the note, it could for the foreclosure of the mortgage, should
there be no other objection to the jurisdiction than the citizenship of the payee and maker.
In the Judiciary Act of 1789 it was expressly provided that
the Circuit Courts could not take cognizance of a suit to recover the contents of any promissory note or other chose in
action in favor of an assignee, unless a suit might have been
prosecuted in such court to recover the contents, if no assignment had been made, except in cases of foreign bills of exchange. The act of 1875, however, removes this restriction
in suits on "promissory notes negotiable by the law merchant; " and now the jurisdiction in such suits is made to depend on the citizenship of the parties, as in other cases.
Since, therefore, the indorsee could have sued in the Circuit
Court on the note now in question, it follows that, as there is
no objection to the jurisdiction other than the citizenship of
the original payee, the suit to foreclose the mortgage was
properly brought.
Decree affirmed.

OIL COMPANY v. VAN ETTEN.
1. Unless objected to within a reasonable time,-and what constitutes such a
reasonable time is a question of law,-an account rendered becomes an
account stated, and cannot be impeached except for fraud or mistake.
2. A witness was, on cross-examination, asked if he had not stated to different
parties that he wished the plaintiffs to recover, as he would then get his
pay. An objection to the question was made, and the defendant's counsel
then declared that he did not propose to impeach the witness. ield, that
the objection was properly sustained.
3. A. made a contract with B. to deliver a specified number of matched barrelheadings, to be properly piled on the land of B., who was to furnish a man
to count them, as they were from time to time piled, in order to obtain an approximate estimate of the quantity piled, and thus to determine the amount
of advances to A. under his contract; but the inspection and final count
was to be made by an inspector appointed by B. at a point to which the
latter shipped them. The property in the headings was to pass to B. on
the delivery of them on his land. In a suit to recover the contract price of

