POTTER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. t

for which the United States was in no wise responsible -to
comply with the terms upon which the government had consented to be sued in the Court of Claims, is his misfortune,
and cannot have the effect of enlarging the time fixed by the
statute of limitation. His remedy, if the claim be a valid one,
is to apply to the legislative department of the government.
The courts cannot, in view of the language of the statute, exclude from computation, on the issue of limitation, the time
intervening between the accruing of the claim in 1865 and the
promulgation of the amnesty proclamation.
Judgment affirmed.

1. The local land-officers are not required to meet and jointly consider the proof
of settlement and cultivation offered by claimants under the pre-emption
laws.
2. In his accounts with the government, a receiver of public moneys in a land
district charged himself with money which he, or, during his absence, his
authorized agents, had received as the purchase price of public lands entered pursuant to the pre-emption laws. The United States, on his failure
to pay over the money, brought suit on his official bond. Held, that neither
he nor his sureties can defeat a recovery by setting up irregularities in the
proceedings by which the entry of the lands was allowed.

ERoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Minnesota.
This was an action brought against George F. Potter and
his sureties on his official bond as receiver of public moneys in
the Pembina land district in the Territory of Dakota. The
bond bears date Aug. 8, 1870, and its condition is that he
shall "truly and faithfully execute and discharge all the
duties of his said office according to law." The declaration
alleges that he was appointed such receiver for four years beginning June 7, 1870; that after the execution and delivery
of the bond 'and prior to June 80, 1874, there legally came
into his hands, as such receiver, the sum of $8,564.77, which
he refused and neglected to account for, or to pay over to the
a
United States.

Oct. 1882.]

POTTER V. UNITED STATES.

Only the sureties on the bond answered. Their defence is
as follows: "That from and after September 30, 1873, there
never was any register at the land-office at Pembina; that
there were no legal sales of land or receipts of moneys at said
land-office for any purpose during all the time from said 30th
of September, to the end of the time that said Potter held the
office of receiver of said land-office."
The parties waived a jury, and submitted the issues of fact
as well as of law to the court. Upon the trial, the United
States offered in evidence certified copies of the accounts rendered by Potter for four quarters, to wit, the quarters ending
respectively Sept. 30 and Dec. 31, 1873, and March 31 and
June 30,1874, which showed a balance against him of $8,564.77,
which he had not accounted for or paid over.
By way of defence testimony was offered which, as stated
by the bill of exceptions, proved that one Brashear, from the
summer of 1871 until the expiration of the term of office of
Potter, was register of the land-office at Pembina; that from
and after Sept. 23, 1873, Brashear was not present at said
land-office, but on the day last named "left Pembina and said
land-office, and never returned, but continued to hold said office
of register during Potter's term of office," which expired in
June, 1874; "that before leaving the office he signed a large
number of printed blanks, covering all the various business of
the register of said land-office, and left them with one William
R. Goodfellow, who was a clerk in the custom-house in said
Pembina, and had nothing to do with said land-office, except
that he was authorized by said Brashear to act for him in his
absence; and that all the business of said land-office, as far as
the said register was concerned, was done by said Goodfellow
with the blanks so signed by said register as aforesaid."
The bill of exceptions further shows that testimony was
offered which proved "that the said receiver, George F. Potter,
left said Pembina and said land-office on the 8th or 9th of
April, 1874, and did not return until the last of June or the
beginning of July, 1874, and that no one was in charge of said
land-office while said receiver was gone except said Goodfellow; that on the return of said Potter he received no money
from said Goodfellow on account of said office, and that he did

POTTER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

receive from his son the sum of $200 or $300, and no more;
that Goodfellow took in, during the absence of said Potter,
some $1,400 of money belonging to said land-office, and paid
the same over to said son of said Potter, from whom it was all
stolen, except the $200 or $300 paid over by him to said
Potter."
Upon this evidence the sureties on the bond of Potter contended that "they were not liable for any moneys received at
said land-office for any business done therein in the absence of
either the register or receiver."
The court decided against the contention of the defendants,
and rendered judgment against them for the sum of $6,406.80,
which included moneys received, by Potter after as well as
before Sept. 28, 1873. To this ruling and judgment of the
court the defendants excepted. The purpose of the writ of
error is to obtain a review in this court of the question raised
by this exception.
Mr. harles'B.Plandraufor the plaintiff in error.
.Ar. Assistant Attorney- General laur for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court,
and, after stating the case as above, proceeded as follows : The answer does not allege that the moneys for which the
court rendered judgment against the defendants were received
by Potter after Sept. 23, 1873, and during the absence of
Brashear, the register, nor does the bill of exceptions profess to
state all the evidence in regard to the absence of Brashear and
Potter from their respective offices. Passing by these defects
in the record, we shall consider the question presented by the
exception of the defendants.
Their first contention is that they are not responsible for
any moneys received by Potter, the receiver, during the time
that Brashear, the register, was absent from the land-office.
The ground of this contention is as follows: The record shows
that during Potter's term of office all sales of land were either
by pre-emption, or commutation of homesteads. The argument applies only to pre-emption sales. Sect. 2259 of the
Revised Statutes prescribes what persons are entitled to preemption, and upon what terms the right of pre-emption is

Oct. 1882.]

POTTER V. UNITED STATES.

accorded to the settler upon the public lands. Sect. 2263 declares that "prior to any entries being made under and by
virtue of the provisions of sect. 2259, proof of the settlement
and ifiaprovement thereby required shall be made to the satisfaction of the register and receiver of the land district in
which such lands lie," &c. The plaintiffs in error contend
that these officers constitute a tribunal, and that no business
can be done without the presence and action of both. And as
Brashear was absent from Sept. 23, 1873, to the close of
Potter's term, there could be no legal pre-emptibns during that
time, and that all moneys paid for pre-emptions before the
conditions prescribed by law had been complied with were not
payments made to the United States, but unauthorized and
unofficial payments made to the receiver, for which his sureties were not liable.
In our judgment this contention has no ground to stand on.
There is no expression in the statute which requires the register and receiver to sit at the same time and concurrently pass
upon the sufficiency of the proof of settlement and improvement by pre-emptors. If the proof is submitted to the register
on one day and he is satisfied, there is nothing in the statute
which implies that it may not be lawfully submitted, at some
subsequent day, to the receiver for his approval. The oath of
the pre-emptor, which is part of the proof required by law,
may be taken before either the register or receiver. Sect.
2262. Lytle v. State of Arkansas, 9 How. 314. They are
nowhere required to meet and jointly consider the sufficiency
of the proof offered. If both are satisfied, that is all the law
requires,
It does not appear in the record that the proof by pre-emptors of the settlement and improvement of the lands for which
money was received by Potter during the absence of Brashear
had not been made to his satisfaction before he left the land
district. If such proof had been made to the satisfaction of
Brashear all that was necessary to complete the right of the
pre-emptor was the approval of Potter, which was effectually
expressed by his receipt of.the money.
What the law requires is that the conditions requisite to a
pre-emption entry should be shown to have been performed to
VOL. XVII,

9

POTTER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. ot.

the satisfaction of both officers. As it does not appear in the
record that the proof was not made to the satisfaction of both
officers, it must be presumed that the money received by Potter
in the absence of Brashear was justly due the United States
and was received by him in his official capacity. We find
nothing either in the cases or the statutes cited by the plaintiffs in error which tends to establish a different construction
of the law.
But if it be conceded that the statute required the register
and receiver td pass concurrently upon the proof of the settlement and improvement before lands could be entered by a
pre-emptor, we are, nevertheless, of opinion that the plaintiffs
in error are responsible for the moneys received by Potter.
The moneys were received by him as public moneys, for he
charged himself with them in his accounts with the government. They were paid as public moneys by pre-emptors as a
consideration for title to portions of the public domain. If any
objection could be raised to the transfer of .title to the preemptors, it could be made by the United States only. But the
United States makes no objection. On the contrary, all objection is waived by the bringing of this suit by the government
to recover the moneys paid by the pre-emptors for their lands.
These moneys are, therefore, public moneys. They belong
neither to Potter nor the pre-emptors, and must, consequently,
be the property of the United States. It was, therefore, his
duty as receiver to account for and pay to the United States
the moneys so received, and it does not lie in the mouths of
the sureties on his official bond to raise an objection to the
payment of the moneys to him, which he could not rAise, and
which is not raised by the pre-emptors, or the United States.
Their responsibility for the moneys so received is therefore
clear.
In support of this view, the case of King v. United States, 99
U. S. 229, is in point. That was a suit brought against one
Chase, a collector of internal revenue, and the sureties on his
official bond, to recover taxes collected by him, and never accounted for or paid over. The facts were that on June 1,
1868, the Toledo, Wabash, and Western Railroad Company was
indebted to the United States in a large sum for the five per

Oct. 1882.]

POTTER V. UNITED STATES.

cent tax for interest paid on its first-mortgage bonds. The
tax was, on the day named, paid to Chase by the treasurer of
the company. At the time of the payment the treasurer delivered to Chase the monthly returns of the taxes so due, in the
form prescribed by law, signed by him as treasurer, but not
sworn to, and which had never been filed with or delivered to
the assessor. Chase delivered to the assessor all these returns,
except those for August, September, and October, 1867, which
were never delivered. He did not at any time make mention
of them in his report to the government, and he retained the
amount, $24,923, paid by the company as the tax upon the returns for the three months just mentioned. Five years after
his receipt of this money, and when he had become insolvent,
suit to recover it was brought on his official bond. The defence
set up by his sureties was that, as the money was not received
by him, on any return made to the assessor, or on any assessment
of said taxes made by the assessor or by the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, and as the return delivered to Chase by the
treasurer of the company was not verified by oath, it was a
voluntary deposit of money in his hands by the treasurer, and
was not received by him in his official capacity; that it was
not his duty to receive it for the government; and the sureties
were not liable because its receipt was an unofficial act.
But the court held that the payment of the taxes to the
collector was a good payment to him in his official capacity,
that the money so paid was the money of the United States, and
that the sureties on his bond were responsible for it.
This case is so apposite to the question in hand, and so conclusive, as to require no further remark.
It is next contended by the plaintiffs in error that they are
not liable for the $1,400 received during the absence of Potter,
extending from April 9 to June 30, 1874, by the person whom
he had left in charge of his office, because that person had no
authority to perform any of the duties of receiver.
There are two sufficient replies to this contention. First, no
such defence is set up in the answer or amended answer of the
plaintiffs in error, They cannot complain that the Circuit
Court did not give effect to a defence which they did not think
it worth while to plead. Second, it is not made to appear by

HOFFHEINS V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ot.

the bill of exceptions that any money was paid to Goodfellow,
the person left by Potter in charge of his office, which was not
due the United States from pre-emption entries made by persons who had proved the settlement and improvement of the
land to the satisfaction of both the receiver and register. If,
therefore, this contention of the plaintiffs in error is sustained,
we should, in effect, decide that the sureties of the receiver
would not be answerable for public moneys paid, with his concurrence and assent, to his assistant or cashier, but only for
moneys actually paid into the bands of the receiver himself.
It requires no argument to expose the fallacy of such a conclusion. If a public officer sees fit to allow the money of the government to be paid during his absence from his office into the
hands of his agent or servant, it is a good payment to him, and
the risk is with him and his sureties and not with the government.
Judgment affirmed.

IoFF.EINs v. RUSSELl.
1. Claims 1, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14,16, and 19 of reissued letters-patent No. 2224, granted
April 10, 1866, to Reuben Hoffheins, for an "improvement in harvesters,"
the original, No. 35,315, having been granted to him May 20, 1862; and
claims 1, 2, 6, 7, and 9 of reissued letters-patent No. 2490, granted Feb. 19,
1867, to him, for an "improvement in harvesters," the original, No. 40,481,
having been granted to him Nov. 3, 1863, and reissued in two divisions, one,
No. 1888, Feb. 28, 1865, and the other, No. 2102, Nov. 7, 1865; and No. 2490
having been issued on the surrender of No. 2102, - considered; and the difference between the specifications and the drawings of No. 35,315 and those
of No. 2224, and that between the raking apparatus and rake-support of No.
2224 and those of the defendants, pointed out.
2. There is no warrant in No. 35,315 for locating the rake-support, or any part
of it, on the finger-beam, and as each of the above-named claims of No.
2224 has, as an element, either a rake, or a rake and reel, mounted on, or
attached to, the cutting apparatus or the finger-beam, No. 35,315 could not
lawfully be reissued with those claims.
3. The defendants devised a new arrangement of rake, which made it possible
to mount a rake-support on the heel of the finger-beam, where the rakesupport of No. 2224 could not be mounted. The difference between the
yielding belt-tightener of No. 2224 and their arrangement for driving the

