WILLTAMS V. JACKSON.

[Sup. Ct.

should remain set apart for that object, but that the cemetery
should be for ever under the protection of a perpetual corporation, charged with the duty of laying out and ornamenting the
grounds, capable of receiving gifts and bequests, and empowered
to make by-laws for the regulation of the affairs of the corporation; and the whole property was described as dedicated to
the purposes of the cemetery, not necessarily that the whole
should be laid out into lots, but that it should all belong to the
institution and be available for its general objects. This was
not to be a mere graveyard in which each lot-holder acquired a
piece of ground in which to bury his dead, and at the same time
become chargeable with the sole care of his particular lot; but
the lot-holders themselves became subject to by-laws and regulations having reference to the institution as an entirety, and
the perpetual preservation of the cemetery as an ornamental
and convenient place for interment and for resort by the relatives of the dead." Glenwood Cemetery v. Close, 7 Washington
Law Reporter, 214, 218.
Decree affrmed.

WMLIA~IS V. JACKSON.
JACKSON v. STICKNEY.
1. By a trust deed, duly recorded, land was conveyed to the trustees in fee, and
they were authorized to release it to the grantor upon payment of the
negotiable promissory note thereby secured. Before that note was paid or
payable, and after it had been negotiated to an indorsee in good faith for
full value, a deed of release, reciting that it had been paid, was made to
the grantor by the trustees and by the payee of the note, and recorded;
and the grantor executed and recorded a like trust deed to secure the payment of a new note for money lent to him by another person, who had no
actual notice that the first note had been negotiated and was unpaid, and
who, before he would make the loan, required and was furnished with a
conveyancer's abstract of title, showing that the three deeds were recorded
and the land free from incumbrance. Held, that the legal title was in the
trustee, under the second trust deed, and that the note thereby secured was
entitled to priority of payment out of the land.
2. Upon a bill in equity by the holder of a debt secured by deed of trust, to set
aside a release negligently executed by the trustee to the grantor, the complainant cannot have a decree for the payment of his debt by the trustee
personally.

Oct. 188.2.]

WILLIAMS

V. JACKSON.

APPEALS from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mfr. W. Hallett Phillips, Mir. William A. l[aury, and Hr.
Philip Phillips for Williams; 1i7r. James S. Bdwards and
312. Job Barnard for Jackson ; Mr. John P. Hanna and James
-1. Johnston for Stickney.
MR.JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity, filed by Benjamin L. Jackson and
others, partners under the name of Jackson, Brother & Company, and heard on the pleadings and proofs, by which the
material facts appear to be as follows :On the 1st of January, 1875, Edwin J. Sweet and his wife
purchased and took a deed from Augustus Davis of a house and
land in Washington, and executed and acknowledged a trust
deed thereof, in which they recited that they were indebted to
Augustus Davis in the sum of $8,000 for deferred payments of
the purchase-money, for which they had given him their four
promissory notes of the same date and payable to his order,
three for the sum of $1,833.33 each, and payable in one, two
and three years respectively, and one for the sum of $2,500,
payable in three years, and all bearing interest at eight per
cent; and by which deed, in order to secure the payment of
those notes as they matured, they conveyed the land to Charles
T. Davis and William Stickney, and the survivor of them, their
and his heirs and assigns, in trust to permit the grantors to
occupy the premises until default in payment of principal or
interest of the notes; and upon the full payment of all the
notes and interest, and all proper costs, charges and commissions, to release and convey the premises to Mrs. Sweet, her
heirs and assigns; with a power of sale upon default of payment, and a provision that the purchaser at the sale should not
be bound to see to the application of the purchase-money.
That deed of trust was recorded on the 14th of January, 1875.
The notes secured by that deed were indorsed by Augustus
Davis and Charles T. Davis, had on the margin the printed
words, "Secured by deed of trust," and were soon after their
date transferred by the indorsers for full value and before

WILLIAMS V. JACKSON.

[Sup. Ct.

maturity to the plaintiffs, and have since been held by them,
except the one due at the end of the first year, which was paid
by the indorsers. Charles T. Davis was a son and a partner
of Augustus Davis, and was a broker and real estate agent.
On the 15th of September, 1876, before any of the other notes
fell due, and without the plaintiffs' knowledge, the trustees,
Davis and Stickney, executed a deed of release of the land to
Mrs. Sweet, reciting that the debt secured by the trust deed had
been fully paid and discharged, as appeared by the signature of
Augustus Davis, who joined in the execution of the release.
At or before the same time, Sweet and wife employed
Charles T. Davis to make some arrangement by which they
could take up those notes and give others running for a longer
time; he went to Samuel T. Williams, and offered him the land
unincumbered, as security for a loan of $5,000, payable in four
years, and bearing nine per cent interest; and Williams agreed
to make the loan if satisfied by a conveyancer's abstract of title
that the land was free of all incumbrance, but not otherwise.
On the 27th of September,1876, a deed of trust, containing provisions like those in the first deed of trust, was executed by Sweet
and wife to Robert K. Elliott and Charles T. Davis to secure the
payment of a note for $5,000 in four years to Williams, with interest at the rate of nine per cent. On the 28th of September,
the deed of release and the second deed of trust were recorded ;
Charles T. Davis furnished Williams with certificates of a conveyancer that he had examined the title on the 14th of September and found it good, subject to the first trust deed, and again
on the 28th, when the only changes were the release and the second deed of trust; and Williams thereupon gave to Davis his
check, payable to Davis's order, for $5,000, (which Davis applied to his own use,) and received from him the note of Sweet
and wife for the same amount and the trust deed to secure its
payment. Neither Williams nor Sweet and wife then knew
that, at the time of the execution of the release, Augustus Davis
was not the holder of the notes secured by the first trust deed.
On the 29th of September, Sweet and wife executed another
trust deed to Charles T. Davis to secure the payment of six
promissory notes to Augustus Davis for $530.26 each, payable
at intervals of six months from their date.

Oct;. 1882.]

WILLIAMS V. JACKSON.

On the 27th of July, 1877, the interest due on the note to
Williams not having been paid, the trustees, Elliott and Davis,
sold the land by auction for the sum of $6,325 to Eli S. Blackwood, who paid them .1,325 in cash (which was applied to the
payment of the interest and of other charges) and gave them
his note for $5,000, secured by a trust deed of the land.
The bill, which was against Williams, Sweet and wife,
Augustus Davis and Blackwood in their own right, against
Charles T. Davis and Stickney in their own right and as
trustees, and against Elliott as trustee only, prayed that the
release by Stickney and Charles T. Davis, as well as all the
subsequent conveyances, might be declared void as against
the first trust deed, and the trust created by that deed be declared to have priority over all subsequent incumbrances; that
Charles T. Davis be removed from his trust and a new trustee
be appointed in his stead; that the land be sold and the proceeds applied, under order of the court, to the payment of the
notes held by the plaintiffs and of any other lawful claims;
and for an injunction, a discovery, an account and further
relief.
The judge before whom the case was first heard made a decree, declining to set aside the release or to declare that the first
deed of trust had priority over the second; adjudging that the
first deed of trust was fraudulently and negligently released by
Augustus Davis and Charles T. Davis, and wrongfully and negligently released by Stickney, and therefore ordering that the
plaintiffs recover against Augustus Davis, Charles T. Davis,
Stickney, and Sweet and wife the amount due on the notes
held by them, with interest; declaring that the note for 85,000
held by Williams was the first charge on the land; and ordering the land to be sold, and the proceeds to be distributed in
paying off the incumbrances in the order thus established.
The court at general term reversed those parts of the decree
which declined to set aside the release, and which declared that
Williams was entitled to priority; and also that part which
adjudged that the plaintiffs recover against Stickney the
amount of their debt; affirmed it in other respects; and ordered
the proceeds to be first applied to the payment of the plaintiffs'
debt. Williams appealed from so much of this decree as gave
vor. xvII.

31

WILLIAMS V. JACKSON.

[Sup. Ct.

priority to the plaintiffs' claim; and the plaintiffs appealed
from so much as reversed the decree against Stickney.
By the statutes regulating the conveyance of real estate in
the District of Columbia, all deeds of trust and mortgages, duly
acknowledged, take effect and are valid, as to all subsequent
purchasers for valuable consideration without notice, and as to
all creditors, from the time of their delivery to the recorder for
record; whereas other deeds, covenants and agreements take
effect and are valid, as to all persons, from the time of their
acknowledgment, if delivered for record within six months
after their execution. Any title-bond or other written contract
in relation to land may be acknowledged and recorded in the
same manner as deeds of conveyance; and the acknowledgment,
duly certified, and the delivery for record, of such bond or contract, shall be taken and held to be notice of its existence to all
subsequent purchasers. Rev. Stat. D. C., sects. 446, 447,449.
The first deed of trust from Sweet and wife did not give the
trustees merely a power to release the land on payment of the
notes secured thereby, ahd to sell on default of payment; but
it vested the legal title in them. A release of the land before
payment of the notes would be a breach of their trust, and
would be unavailing in equity to any one who had knowledge
of that breach. Insurance Comnpany v. -Eldredge,102 U. S. 545.
But it would pass the legal title. Taylor v. King, 6 Munf.
(Va.) 358; -Den v. Troutman, 7 Ired. (N. C.) L. 155. The legal
title in the land, being in the trustees under the first deed of
trust, passed by their deed of release to Mrs. Sweet, and from
her by the second deed of trust to the trustees for Williams.
The first deed of trust having been made to the trustees
therein named for the benefit of Augustus Davis, and to secure
the payment of the notes from the grantors to him; and the
plaintiffs, upon the transfer and indorsement to them of those
notes, having taken no precaution to obtain and put on record
an assignment of his rights in such form as would be notice
to all the world; the recorded deed of release, executed by
him as well as by the trustees, reciting that the notes had
been paid, and conveying the legal title, bound the plaintiffs,
as well as himself, in favor of any one acting upon the faith of
the record and ignorant of the real state of facts.

Oct. 1882.]

WILLIAMS

V. JACKSON.

If the plaintiffs wished to affect subsequent purchasers with
notice of their rights, they should have obtained a new conveyance or agreement, duly acknowledged and recorded, in the
form either of a deed from the original grantors, or of a declaration of trust from the trustees, or of an assignment from Augustus Davis of his equitable interest in the land as security
for the payment of the notes. The record not showing that
any person other than Augustus Davis had any interest in the
notes, or in the land as security for their payment, an innocent
subsequent purchaser or incumbrancer had the right to assume that the trustees, in executing the release, had acted in
accordance with their duty.
Williams is admitted to have had no actual knowledge that
the notes secured by the first trust deed were held by the plaintiffs, or that they were unpaid. The knowledge of those facts
by Charles T. Davis, through whom Williams made the loan,
does not bind him, because upon the evidence Charles T. Davis
appears not to have been his agent, but the agent of Sweet and
wife.
Williams took every reasonable precaution that could have
been expected of a prudent man, before advancing his money
to Charles T. Davis for Sweet and wife. He declined to lend
his money, until after he had been furnished with a conveyancer's abstract of title, showing that the deed of release from
the trustees under the first deed of trust and from the original
holder of the notes secured thereby, as well as the second deed
of trust to secure the repayment of the money lent by Williams, had been recorded, and that the land was not subject to
any incumbrance prior to the second deed of trust.
It was suggested in argument that as the first deed of trust
showed that the notes secured thereby were negotiable and
were not yet payable, and that the land was not intended to be
released from this trust until all the notes were paid, Williams
was negligent in not making further inquiry into the fact
whether they were still unpaid. But of whom should he have
made inquiry? The trustees under the first deed and the
original holder of the notes secured thereby having expressly
asserted under their own hands and seals that the notes had
been paid, and Sweet and wife having apparently concurred in

WILLIAMS V. JACKSON.

[Sup. Ct.

the assertion by accepting the deed of release and putting it on
record, he certainly was not bound to inquire of any of them as
to the truth of that fact; and there was no other person to
whom he could apply for information, for he did not know that
the notes bad ever been negotiated, and he had no reason to
suppose that they had not been cancelled and destroyed.
To charge Williams with constructive notice of the fact that
the notes had not been paid, in the absence of any proof of
knowledge, fraud, or gross or wilful negligence, on his part,
would be inconsistent with the purpose of the registry laws,
with the settled principles of equity, and with the convenient
transaction of business. Hfine v. -Dodd,2 Atk. 275; Jones v.
Smith, 1 Hare, 43, and 1 Phillips, 244; Agra Bank v. Barry,
Irish R. 6 Eq. 128, and Law Rep. 7 H. L. 135; Wilson v. Wall,
6 Wall. 83; Norman v. Towne, 130 Mass. 52.
The equity of Williams being at least equal with that of the
plaintiffs, the legal title held for Williams must prevail, and he
is entitled to priority. The decree appealed from is in this
respect erroneous and must be reversed.
But that decree, so far as it refuses relief against Stickney
personally, is right. The main purpose of the bill is to set
aside the deed of release and to satisfy the plaintiffs' debt out
of the land. The attempt to charge Stickney with the amount
of that debt, by reason of his negligence in executing the release, is wholly inconsistent with this. The one treats the
release as void; the other assumes that it is valid. In the one
view, Stickney is made a party in his capacity of trustee only ;
in the other, it is sought to charge him personally. The joinder
of claims so distinct in character and in relief is unprecedented
Shields v. Barrow, 17 How. 130, 144;
and inconvenient.
U. S. 245.
104
Walker v. Powers,
The result is that the decree appealed from must be reversed,
and the case remanded with directions to enter a decree in conformity with this opinion, and without prejudice to an action
at law or suit in equity against Stickney.
-Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAf did not sit in this case, nor take any
part in deciding it.

