ESCANABA

0. V. CHICAGO.

[Sup. 0t.

loan upon such security be made. If, therefore, the prohibition
can be urged against the validity of the transaction by any one
except the government, it can only be done before the contract
is executed, while the security is still subsisting in the hands
of the bank. It can then, if at all, be invoked to restrain or
defeat the enforcement of the security. When the contract has
been executed, the security sold, and the proceeds applied to
the payment of the debt, the courts will not interfere with the
matter. Both bank and borrower are in such case equally the
subjects of legal censure, and they will be left by the courts
where they have placed themselves.
There is another view of this case. The deceased authorized
the bank, in a certain contingency, to sell his shares. Supposing it was unlawful for the bank to take those shares as security for a loan, it was not unlawful to authorize the bank to sell
them when the contingency occurred. The shares being sold
pursuant to the authority, the proceeds would be in the bank
as his property. The administrators, indeed, affirm the validity
of that sale by suing for the proceeds. As against the deceased,
however, the money loaned was an offset to the proceeds. In
bither view the administrators cannot recover.
The judgment of the court, therefore, must be reversed and
the cause remanded for a new trial; and it is
So ordered.

ESCANABA COMPANY V. CHICAGO.
1. The Chicago River and its branches, although lying within the limits of the

State of fllinois, are navigable waters of the United States over which
Congress, in the exercise of its power under the commerce clause of the
Constitution, may exercise control to the extent necessary to protect, preserve, and improve their free navigation; but until that body acts, the State
has plenary authority over bridges across them, and may. vest in Chicago
jurisdiction over the construction, repair, and use of those bridges within
the city.
2. There is nothing in the ordinance of July 13,1787, or in the subsequent legislation of Congress, that precludes the State from exercising that authority.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Northern District of Illinois.

Oct. 1882.]

ESCANABA CO. V. CHICAGO.

The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Alexander T. Brqtton, Mr. Jehiel H. McGowan, and Mr.
Homer Cook for the appellant.
31r. Frederick S. Winston, Jr., for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

The Escanaba and Lake Michigan Transportation Company,
a corporation created under the laws of Michigan, is the owner
of three steam-vessels engaged in the carrying trade between
ports and places in different states on Lake Michigan and the
navigable waters connecting with it. The vessels are enrolled
and licensed for the coasting trade, and are principally employed in carrying iron ore from the port of Escanaba, in
Michigan, to the docks of the Union Iron and Steel Company
on the south fork of the south branch of the Chicago River in
the city of Chicago. In their course up the river and its south
branch and fork to the docks they are required to pass through
draws of several bridges constructed over the stream by the city
of Chicago; and it is of obstructions caused by the closing of
the draws, under an ordinance of the city, for a designated hour
of the morning and evening during week-days, and by a limitation of the time to ten minutes, during which a draw may be
left open for the passage of a vessel, and by some of the piers
in the south branch and fork, and the bridges resting on them,
that the corporation complains; and to enjoin the city from
closing the draws for the morning and evening hours designated, and enforcing the ten minutes' limitation, and to compel
the removal of the objectionable piers and bridges, the present
bill is filed.
The river and its branches are entirely within the State of
Illinois, and all of it, and nearly all of both branches that is
navigable, are within the limits of the city of Chicago. The
river, from the junction of its two branches to the lake, is about
three-fourths of a mile in length. The branches flow in opposite directions and meet at its head, nearly at right angles with
it. Originally the width of the river and its branches seldom
exceeded one hundred and fifty feet; of the branches and fork
it was often less than one hundred feet; but it has been greatly
enlarged by the city for the convenience of its commerce.

ESCANABA

0.

V. CHICAGO.

[Sup. 0t.

The, city fronts on Lake Michigan, and the mouth of the
Chicago River is near its centre. The river and its branches
divide the city into three sections; one lying north of the main
river and east of its north branch, which may be called its
northern division; one lying between the north and south
branches, which may be called its western division; and one
lying south of the main river and east of the south branch,
which may be called its southern division. Along the river
and its branches the city has grown up into magnificent proportions, having a population of six hundred thousand souls.
Running back from them on both sides are avenues and streets
lined with blocks of edifices, public and private, with stores and
warehouses, and the immense variety of buildings suited for
the residence and the business of this vast population. These
avenues and streets are connected by a great number of bridges,
over which there is a constant passage of foot-passengers and of
vehicles of all kinds. A slight impediment to the movement
causes the stoppage of a crowd of passengers and a long line of
vehicles.
The main business of the city, where the principal stores,
,warehouses, offices, and public buildings are situated, is in the
southern division of the city; and a large number of the persons who do business there reside in the northern or the western division, or in the suburbs.
While this is the condition of business in the city on the
land, the river and its branches are crowded with vessels of
all kinds, sailing craft and steamers, boats, barges, and tugs,
moving backwards and forwards, and loading and unloading.
Along the banks there are docks, warehouses, elevators, and all
the appliances for shipping and reshipping goods. To these
vessels the unrestricted navigation of the river and its branches
is of the utmost importance; while to those who are compelled
to cross the river and its branches the bridges are a necessity.
The object of wise legislation is to give facilities to both, with
the least obstruction to either. This the city of Chicago has
endeavored to do.
The State of Illinois, within which, as already mentioned,
the river and its branches lie, has vested in the authorities of
the city jurisdiction over bridges within its limits, their con,

Oct. 1882.]

ESCANABA

CO. V. CHICAGO.

struction, repair, and use, and empowered them to deepen,
widen, and change the channel of the stream, and to make regulations in regard to the times at which the bridges shall be
kept open for the passage of vessels.
Acting upon the power thus conferred, the authorities have
endeavored to meet the wants of commerce with other States,
and the necessities of the population of the city residing or doing business in different sections. For this purpose they have
prescribed as follows: that "Between the hours of six and
seven o'clock in the morning, and half-past five and half-past
six o'clock in the evening, Sundays excepted, it shall be unlawful to open any bridge within the city of Chicago;" and that
"During the hours between seven o'clock in the morning and
half-past five o'clock in the evening, it shall be unlawful to keep
open any bridge within the city of Chicago for the purpose of
permitting vessels or other crafts to pass through the same, for
a longer period at any one time than ten minutes, at the expiration of which period it shall be the duty of the bridge-tender
or other person in charge of the bridge to display the proper
signal, and immediately close the same, and keep it closed for
fully ten minutes for such persons, teams, or vehicles as may be
waiting to pass over, if so much time shall be required; when
the said bridge shall again be opened (if necessary for vessels
to pass) for a like period, and so on alternately (if necessary)
during the hours last aforesaid; and in every instance where
any such bridge shall be open for the passage of any vessel,
vessels, or other craft, and closed before the expiration of ten
minutes from the time of opening, said bridge shall then, in
every such case, remain closed for fully ten minutes, if necessary, in order to allow all persons, teams, and vehicles in waiting to pass over said bridge."
The first of these requirements was called for to accommodate clerks, apprentices, and laboring men seeking to cross the
bridges, at the hours named, in going to and returning from
their places of labor. Any unusual delay in the morning
would derange their business for the day, and subject them to
a corresponding loss of wages. At the hours specified there is
three times - so the record shows - the usual number of pedestrians going and returning that there is during other hours of

ESCANABA

CO. V. CHICAGO.

[Sup. Ct.

The limitation of ten minutes for the passage of the draws
by vessels seems to have been eminently wise and proper for
the protection of the interests of all parties. Ten minutes is
ample time for any vessel to pass the draw of a bridge, and the
allowance of more time would subject foot-passengers, teams,
and other vehicles to great inconvenience and delays.
The complainant principally objects to this ten minutes'
limitation, and to the assignment of the morning and evening
hour to pedestrians and vehicles. It insists that the navigation of the-river and its branches should not be thus delayed;
and that the rights of commerce by vessels are paramount to
the rights of commerce by any other way.
But in this view the complainant is in error. The rights of
each class are to be enjoyed without invasion of the equal rights
of others. Some concession must be made on every side for the
convenience and the harmonious pursuit of different occupations. Independently of any constitutional restrictions, nothing would seem more just and reasonable, or better designed to
meet the wants of the population of an immense city, consistently with the interests of commerce, than the ten minutes'
rule, and the assignment of the morning and evening hours
which the city ordinance has prescribed.
The power vested in the general government to regulate
interstate and foreign commerce involves the control of the
waters of the United States which are navigable in fact, so far
as it may be necessary to insure their free navigation, when by
themselves or their connection with other waters they form a
continuous channel for commerce among the States or with
foreign countries. The -Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557. Such is
the case with the Chicago River and its branches. The common-law test of the navigability of waters, that they are subject
to the ebb and flow of the tide, grew out of the fact that in
England there are no waters navigable in fact, or to any great
extent, which are not also affected by the tide. That test has
long since been discarded in this country. Vessels larger than
any which existed in England, when that test was established,
now navigate rivers and inland lakes for more than a thousand
miles beyond the reach of any tide. That test only becomes
important when considering the rights of riparian owners to

Oct. 1882.]

ESOANABA CO. V. CHICAGO.

the bed of the stream, as in some States it governs in that
matter.
The Chicago River and its branches must, therefore, be
deemed navigable waters of the United States, over which
Congress under its commercial power may exercise control to
the extent necessary to protect, preserve, and improve their
free navigation.
But the States have full power to regulate within their limits
matters of internal police, including in that general designation'
whatever will promote the peace, comfort, convenience, and
prosperity of their people. This power embraces the construction of roads, canals, and bridges, and the establishment of
ferries, and it can generally be exercised more wisely by the
States than by a distant authority. They are the first to see
the importance of such means of internal communication, and
are more deeply concerned than others in their wise management. Illinois is more immediately affected by the bridges over
the Chicago River and its branches than any other State, and
is more directly concerned for the prosperity of the city of
Chicago, for the convenience and comfort of its inhabitants,
and the growth of its commerce. And nowhere could the
power to control the bridges in that city, their construction,
form, and strength, and the size of their draws, and the manner
and times of using them, be better vested than with the State,
or the authorities of the city upon whom it has devolved that
duty. When its power is exercised, so as to unnecessarily
obstruct the navigation of the river or its branches, Congress
may interfere and remove the obstruction. If the power of the
State and that of the Federal government come in conflict, the
latter must control and the former yield. This necessarily follows from the position given by the Constitution to legislation
in pursuance of it, as the supreme law of the land. But until
Congress acts on the subject, the power of the State over
bridges across its navigable streams is plenary. This doctrine
has been recognized from the earliest period, and approved in
repeated cases, the most notable of which are Willson v. The
Black Bird Creek lfarsh (Co., 2 Pet. 245, decided in 1829, and
Gilman v. Philadelphia,8 Wall. 713, decided in 1865. In the
first of these cases, an act of Delaware incorporated the com-

ESCANABA CO. V. CHICAGO.

[Sup. Ct.

pany, and authorized it to construct over one of the small
navigable rivers of the State a dam which obstructed the navigation of the stream. A sloop, licensed and enrolled according
to the navigation laws of the United States, broke and injured
the dam, and thereupon an action was brought for damages by
the company. The owners of the sloop set up that the river
was a public and common navigable creek "in the nature of a
highway," in which the tides had always flowed and reflow.ed,
and in which there was, and of right ought to be, a common and
public way for all the citizens of the State of Delaware and of
the United States, with sloops and other vessels to navigate at
all times of the year at their free will and pleasure; that the
company had wrongfully erected the dam across the navigable
creek and thereby obstructed the same; and that they had
broken the dam in order to pass along the creek with their
sloop. To this plea the company demurred, and the demurrer
was sustained by the Court of Appeals of Delaware and by this
court. The decision here was based entirely upon the absence
of any legislation of Congress upon the subject. Said Chief
Justice Marshall, speaking for the court: "The measure authorized by this act (of Delaware) stops a navigable creek, and
must be supposed to abridge the rights of those who have been
accustomed to use it. But this abridgment, unless it comes in
conflict with the Constitution or a law of the United States, is
an affair between the government of Delaware and its citizens,
of which this court can take no cognizance. The counsel for
the plaintiffs in error insist that it comes in conflict with the
power of the United States ' to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the several States.' If Congress had passed
any act which bore upon the case; any act in execution of the
power to regulate commerce, the object of which was to control
State legislation over those small navigable creeks, into which
the tide flows, and which abound throughout the lower country
of the middle and southern States, we should feel not much
difficulty in saying that a State law, coming in conflict with
such act, would be void. But Congress has passed no such act.
The repugnancy of the law of Delaware to the Constitution is
placed entirely on its repugnancy to the power of Congress to
regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several

Oct. 1882.]

ESCANABA CO. v. CHICAGO.

States, a power which has not been so exercised as to affect the
question."
The second case mentioned, that of Gilman v. Philadelpia,
is equally emphatic and decisive. The complaint there was by
a citizen of New Hampshire, who owned valuable coal wharves
on the Schuylkill River at Philadelphia, just above Chestnut
Street in that city. In 1857 the legislature of the State authorized the city of Philadelphia to erect a permanent bridge over
the river at that street. The city being about to begin the
structure, which was to be without a draw, Gilman filed a bill
to prevent its erection, alleging that it would be an unlawful
obstruction of the navigation of the river, and an illegal interference with his rights, and a public nuisance, producing to
him special damage, and that it was not competent for the
legislature of Pennsylvania to sanction such a structure; and
he claimed that he was entitled to be protected by an injunction
to stay the progress of the work, and to a decree of abatement,
if it should be proceeded with to completion. It appeared that
the river was tide-water, and navigable to his wharves for vessels drawing from eighteen to twenty feet of water, and that
for many years commerce to them had been carried on in all
kinds of vessels. The bridge, which was to be constructed
below them, was to be only thirty feet high; hence would not
permit the passage of vessels with masts. The city justified its
proposed action by the act of the legislature, alleging that the
bridge was a necessity for public convenience, a large population residing on both sides of the river. The Circuit Court
dismissed the bill, and this court affirmed the decree, holding
that as the river was wholly within her limits, the State had
not exceeded the bounds of her authority, and that until the
dormant power of the Constitution was awakened and made
effective by appropriate legislation, the reserved power of the
State was plenary, and its exercise in good faith could not be
made the subject of review by the court. In its opinion, after
observing " that it must not be forgotten that bridges, which
are connecting parts of turnpikes, streets, and railroads, are
means of commercial transportation as well as navigable waters,
and that the commerce which passed over a bridge may be
much greater than would ever be transported on the water

ESCANABA CO. V. CHICAGO.

[Sup. Ct.

obstructed," the court said, speaking by Mr. Justice Swayne:
"It is for the municipal power to weigh the considerations
which belong to the subject and to decide which shall be preferred, and how far either shall be made subservient to the
other. The States have always exercised this power, and from
the nature and objects of the two systems of government, they
must always continue to exercise it, subject, however, in all
cases, to the paramount authority of Congress, whenever the
power of the State shall be exerted within the sphere of the
commercial power which belongs to the nation."
These decisions have been cited, approved, and followed in
many cases, notably in that of Pound v. Tureci, decided in
1877. 95 U. S.459. There, a statute of Wisconsin authorized
the erection of one or more dams across the Chippewa River,
which was a small navigable stream lying wholly within the
limits of the State, but emptying its waters into the Mississippi; and also the building and maintaining of booms on the
river with sufficient piers to stop and hold floating logs. The
dams and booms were to be so built as not to obstruct the running of lumber-rafts on the river. Certain parties were damaged by delay in a lumber-raft and from its breaking, caused
by the obstructions in the river; and their assignees in bankruptcy brought an action against those who had placed the
obstructions there, and recovered. The case being brought
here, this court was of opinion that the somewhat confused
instructions of the Circuit Court must have led the jury to
understand, that if the structures of the defendant -were a material obstruction to the general navigation of the river, the
statute of the State afforded no defence, although the structures were built in strict conformity with its provisions. The
Circuit Court evidently acted upon the theory that the State
possessed no power to pass the statute because of its supposed
conflict with the commercial power of Congress. This court
thus construing the instructions of that court, held that they
were erroneous, that the case was within the decisions of the
Black Bird Creek Marsh case, and Gilman v. Philadelphia,
and that it was competent for the legislature of the State to
impose such regulations and limitations upon the erection of
obstructions like dams and booms in navigable streams wholly

Oct. 1882.]

ESCANABA CO. V. CHICAGO.

within its limits, as might best accommodate the interests of
all concerned, until Congress should interfere and by appropriate legislation control the matter.
The doctrine declared in these several decisions is in accordance with the more general doctrine now firmly established,
that the commercial power of Congress is exclusive of State
authority only when the subjects upon which it is exercised
are national in their character, and admit and require uniformity of regulation affecting alike all the States. Upon such
subjects only that authority can act which can speak for the
whole country. Its non-action is therefore a declaration that
they shall remain free from all regulation. Welton v. State of
Missouri, 91 U. S.275; Henderson v. Mayor of New York, 92
id. 259; County of .liobilev. Kimball, 102 id. 691.
On the other hand, where the subjects on which the power
may be exercised are local in their nature or operation, or constitute mere aids to commerce, the authority of the State may
be exerted for their regulation and management until Congress
interferes and supersedes it. As said in the case last cited:
"The uniformity of commercial regulations which the grant
to Congress was designed to secure against conflicting State
provisions, was necessarily intended only for cases where, such
uniformity is practicable. Where, from the nature of the subject or the sphere of its operation, the case is local and limited,
special regulations, adapted to the immediate locality, could
only have been contemplated. State action upon such subjects
can constitute no interference with the commercial power of
Congress, for when that acts the State authority is superseded.
Inaction of Congress upon these subjects of a local nature or
operation, unlike its inaction upon matters affecting all the
States and requiring uniformity of regulation, is not to be
taken as a declaration that nothing shall be done in respect to
them, but is rather to be deemed a declaration that for the
time being and until it sees fit to act they may be regulated by
State authority."
Bridges over navigable streams, which are entirely within the
limits of a State, are of the latter class. The local authority
can better appreciate their necessity, and can better direct the
manner in which they shall be used and regulated than a gov-

ESCANABA CO. V. CHICAGO.

[Sup. Ct.

ernment at a distance. It is, therefore, a matter of good sense
and practical wisdom to leave their control and management
with the States, Congress -having the power at all times to
interfere and supersede their authority whenever they act
arbitrarily and to the injury of commerce.
It is, however, contended here that Congress has interfered,
and by its legislation expressed its opinion as to the navigation
of Chicago River and its branches; that it has done so by acts
recognizing the ordinance of 1787, and by appropriations for
the improvement of the harbor of Chicago.,
The ordinance of 1787 for the government of the territory
of the United States northwest of the Ohio River, contained in
its fourth article a clause declaring that, "The navigable
waters leading into the Mississippi and St. Lawrence, and the
carrying places between them, shall be common highways and
forever free, as well to the inhabitants of the said territory as
to the citizens of the United States and those of any other
.States that may be admitted into the confederacy, without any
tax, impost, or duty therefor."
The ordinance was passed July 13, 1787, one year and nearly
eight months before the Constitution took effect; and although
it appears to have been treated afterwards as in force in the
territory, except as modified by Congress, and by the act of
May 7, 1800, c. 41, creating the Territory of Indiana, and by
the act of Feb. 3, 1809, c. 13, creating the Territory of Illinois,
the rights and privileges granted by the ordinance are expressly
secured to the inhabitants of those Territories; and although
the act of April 18, 1818, c. 67, enabling the people of Illinois
Territory to form a constitution and State government, and
the resolution of Congress of Dec. 3, 1818, declaring the admission of the State into the Union, refer to the principles of
the ordinance according to which the constitution was to be
formed, its provisions could not control the authority and
powers of the State after her admission. Whatever the limitation upon her powers as a government whilst in a territorial
condition, whether from the ordinance of 1787 or the legislation of Congress, it ceased to have any operative force, except
as voluntarily adopted by her, after she became a State of the
Union. On her admission she at once became entitled to and

Oct. 1882.]

ESCANABA

00. V. CHICAGO.

possessed of all the rights of dominion and sovereignty which
belonged to the original States. She was admitted, and could
be admitted, only on the same footing with them. The language of the resolution admitting her is "on an equal footing
with the original States in all respects whatever." 3 Stat. 536.
Equality of constitutional right and power is the condition of
all the States of the Union, old and new. Illinois, therefore,
as was well observed by counsel, could afterwards exercise the
same power over rivers within her limits that Delaware exercised over Black Bird Creek, and Pennsylvania over the
Schuylkill River. Pollard's Lessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212;
Permoli v. First 3funicipality, id. 589; Strader v. Graham, 10
id. 82.
But aside from these considerations, we do not see that the
clause of the ordinance upon which reliance is placed materially affects the question before us. That clause contains two
provisions: one, that the navigable waters leading into the Mississippi and the St. Lawrence shall be common highways to the
inhabitants; and the other, that they shall be forever free to them
without any tax, impost, or duty therefor. The navigation of
the Illinois River is free, so far as we are informed, from any tax,
impost, or duty, and its character as a common highway is not
affected by the fact that it is crossed by bridges. All highways,
whether by land or water, are subject to such crossings as the public necessities and convenience may require, and their character
as such is not changed, if the crossings are allowed under reasonable conditions, and not so as to needlessly obstruct the use of the
highways. In the sense in which the terms are used by publicists
and statesmen, free navigation is consistent with ferries and
bridges across a river for the transit of persons and merchandise
as the necessities and convenience of the community may require.
In Palmerv. Commissioners of Cuyahoga County we have a case
in point. There application was made to the Circuit Court of
the United States in Ohio for an injunction to restrain the
erection of a drawbridge over a river in that State on the ground
that it would obstruct the navigation of the stream and injure
the property of the plaintiff. The application was founded on
the provision of the fourth article of the ordinance mentioned.
The court, which was presided over by Mr. Justice McLean,
VOL. XVii.

44

ESCANABA CO. v. CHICAGO.

[Sup. Ct.

then having a seat on this bench, refused the injunction, observing that " This provision does not prevent a State from
improving the navigableness of these waters, by removing
obstructions, or by dams and locks, so increasing the depth of
the water as to extend the line of navigation. Nor does the
ordinance prohibit the construction of any work on the river
which the State may consider important to commercial intercourse. A dam may be thrown over the river, provided a lock
is so constructed as to permit boats to pass with little or no
delay, and without charge. A temporary delay, such as passing a lock, could not be considered as an obstruction prohibited
by the ordinance." And again: " A drawbridge across a navigable water is not an obstruction. As this would not be a
work connected with the navigation of the river, no toll, it is
supposed, could be charged for the passage of boats. But the
obstruction would be only momentary, to raise the draw ; and
as such a work may be very important in a general intercourse
of a community, no doubt is entertained as to the power of the
State to make the bridge." 3 McLean, 226. The same observations may be made of the subsequent legislation of Congress
declaring that navigable rivers within the Territories of the
United States shall be deemed public highways. Sect. 9 of the
act of May 18, 1796, c. 29; sect. 6 of the act of March 26, 1804,
c. 35.
As to the appropriations by Congress, no money has been
expended on the improvement of the Chicago River above the
first bridge from the lake, known as Rush Street Bridge. No
bridge, therefore, interferes with the navigation of any portion
of the river which has been thus improved. But, if it were
otherwise, it is not perceived how the improvement of the navigability of the stream can affect the ordinary means of crossing
it by ferries and bridges. The free navigation of a stream does
not require an abandonment of those means. To render the
action of the State invalid in constructing or authorizing
the construction of bridges over one of its navigable streams,
the general government must directly interfere so -as to supersede its authority and annul what it has done in the matter.
It appears from the testimony in the record that the money
appropriated by Congress has been expended almost exclu-

Oct. 1882.]

TRANSPORTATION co. v. PARKERSBURG.

691

sively upon what is known as the outer harbor of Chicago, a
part of the lake surrounded by breakwaters. The fact that formerly a light-house was erected where now Rush Street bridge
stands in no respect affects the question. A ferry was then
used there; and before the construction of the bridge the site
as a light-house was abandoned. The existing light-house is
below all the bridges. The improvements on the river above
the first bridge do not represent any expenditure of the government.
From any view of this case, we see no error in the action of
the court below, and its decree must accordingly be
Affirmed.

TRANSPORTATION COMPANY V. PARKERSBURG.
1. The city of Parkersburg built within its limits a wharf on the bank of the
Ohio River, and prescribed by ordinance certain rates of wharfage on
vessels "that may discharge or receive freight, or land on or anchor at or
in front of any public landing or wharf belonging to the city, for the purpose of discharging or receiving freight." A transportation company,
owning duly enrolled and licensed steamers, which ply between Pittsburgh
and Cincinnati and touch at the intermediate points, complained that the
wharfage was extortionate, and was merely a pretext for levying a duty of
tonnage. The company thereupon filed a bill in the Circuit Court, praying
that the prosecution of a suit brought by the city in the State court to collect the wharfage be enjoined, and that the ordinance be declared void, and
that other relief be granted. Held, thattthe character of the charges must
be determined by the ordinance itself; and as it on its face imposed them
for the use of the wharf only, and not for entering the port or lying at
anchor in the river, the court, though it might deem them unreasonable
and exorbitant, will not entertain an averment that they were intended
as a duty of tonnage, nor inquire into the secret purpose of the body imposing them.
2. Wharfage is the compensation which the owner of a wharf demands for the
use thereof; a duty of tonnage is a charge for the privilege of entering, or
loading at or lying in, a port or harbor, and can be laid only by the United
States.
3. The question as to which of these classes, if either, a charge against a vessel
or its owner belongs, is one, not of intent, but of fact and law: of fact,
whether the charge is imposed for the use of a wharf, or for the privilege
of entering a port; of law, whether, upon the facts which are shown to
exist, it is wharfage or a duty of tonnage.

