HALL V. MACNEALE.

HALI

[Sup. Ct.

V. MACNEALE.

1. Whether claim 3 of letters-patent No. 67,046, granted to Joseph L. Hall, July
23, 1867, for an "improvement in connecting doom and casings of safes," namely, "3. The conical or tapering arbors, 1, in combination with two or
more plates of metal, in the doors and casings of safes and other secure receptacles, the arbors being secured in place in the plates by keys, 2, or in
other substantial manner," -claims arbors which are tapped into two or
more plates, or whether it excludes, as a part of it, screw-threads cut on the
arbors, is immaterial in the present case, because, under the former view, the
defendants are not shown to have used arbors with screw-threads on any
part of the arbor within the plates, and, under the latter view, the claim
is invalid.
2. The whole invention is described in letters-patent No. 30,140, granted to Hall,
Sept. 25, 1860, for an "improvement in locks," and a cored conical bolt
with a screw-thread on it is shown in those letters. A solid conical bolt
having existed, adding the screw-thread to it is not an invention.
3. Solid conical bolts without screw-threads having been used in two safes made
and sold by the inventor more than two years before his letters were applied for, the invention covered by claim 3 was in public use and on sale,
with his consent and allowance, so as to make the claim invalid under sects.
7 and 15 of the act of July 4, 1836, c. 367, and sect. 7 of the act of March 3,
1839, c. 88.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Thomas A. Logan and Hr.-.Edvard N. Dickerson for the
appellant.
Mr.James Moore for the appellees.

MR. JusT=cE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.

This suit is brought on letters-patent :No. 67,046, granted to
Joseph L. Hall, the appellant, July 23, 1867, for an "improvement in connecting doors and casings of safes." The only
claim alleged to have been infringed is claim 3, which is in
these words: "3. The conical or tapering arbors, 1, in combination with two or more plates of metal, in the doors and

casings of safesand other secure receptacles, the arbors being
secured in place in the plates by keys, 2, or in other substantial
manner." In regard to what is embraced in this claim the

Oct;. 188.2.]

HALL V. MACNEALE.

specification says: " The nature of this invention consists in
. . securing a series of plates forming a casing or door of the
safe by means of conical or tapering arbors, which, being tapped
in from the outside of the door or casing, and keyed upon the
inside, present serious obstacles to the removal of successive
plates forming the body of the safe. Figure 1 represents a
perspective view of a safe embodying my invention. Figure 2
is a horizontal section of part of the same. Figure 3 is a detail
view, in cross-section, of the door of the safe, showing the
shape of, and manner of securing, an arbor. The most approved
manner of securing together the numerous plates forming the
casings and doors of safes is by means of screws tapped in from
one series of pairs or triplets of plates from the inside, presenting no rivet heads upon the outside surface of the safes ...
In the doors of safes the outer plate D is secured to the plates
E F by screws b, counter-sunk in the plate F. . . . The fourth
plate, I, has about the same area as the plate E. It is secured
to the plate F by screws e, which pass through the inner plate
K, in which they are counter-sunk. . . . In order to still further secure together the plates forming the door of the safe, I
use a conical arbor, 1, or a number, if necessary; they are introduced in openings through the series of plates, being tapped
into the two innermost of all the plates, and keyed in position.
A smooth surface in the plane of the outer face of the door is
presented, giving no means of removing the arbors, 1, even
should the key, 2, be removed. . . . Since the doors of safes
are more exposed than any other part of them, it is necessary to
embody in their construction such devices, which in themselves
are the simplest, as shall effectually bar forcible entrance to
the safes. The introduction of arbors for the purpose of more
effectually binding in one compact mass the series of alternate
iron and steel plates in the doors or bodies of safes will very
much protract the labors of the burglar; indeed, it will be
necessary, in order to remove one sheet in succession, to cut out
the arbors, which are made of the hardest steel. The arbors
may be tapped through the entire series of plates, and the inner
end rivet-headed instead of keyed, as shown in the drawing, or
the inner plate, as well as other in the series of plates, may be
put together in sections, and, fitting into notches in the arbor
*

]HALL V. MACNEALE.

or arbors, secure them in position.

[Sup. Ct.

In this latter construction

the arbors need not be conical, but may have any cross-section,
tapering longitudinally."
When the specification says that the conical arbors are
"tapped in from the outside," it means that screw-threads are
cut on them and take into screw-threads in the body, and that
the arbors are screwed in and have their smaller end towards
the inside. The drawing, Figure 8, shows this, there being five
plates, and the arbor being in position, and tapering from the
outside to the inside, the larger end being towards the outside,
and a screw-thread being cut on the arbor for the distance of
the thickness of the two innermost plates, and the arbor extending through the five plates, from the outer surface of all to
the inner surface of all, and a key extending from the inside,
lengthwise of the arbor, the distance of the length of the screwthread. The arbors, the specification says, "may be tapped
through the entire series of plates," that is, the entire length of
the arbor may have a screw-thread cut on it, and the inner end
may be rivet-headed, that is, headed down into a rivet instead
of being keyed. A peculiarity of the conical arbors is stated in
the specification to be that they are tapped in "from the outside" and "keyed upon the inside," in contradistinction to the
then existing most approved method of having screws with
conical heads, the heads being counter-sunk in one of the plates,
and the cone shape of the heads holding the screws so as to
make it unnecessary to rivet them on the outside of the safe,
the screws not going through all the plates, the head of the
screw being towards the inside of the safe, and the other end
of it not projecting beyond the outside. Whether claim 8, in
claiming "the conical or tapering arbors 1 in combination,"
&c., is to be held, in view of the description in the text of the
specification, and of the drawing, Figure 8, to necessarily claim
arbors which are tapped into two or more plates, or whether
that claim excludes as a part of it screw-threads cut on the
arbors, is not material to this case. If the former, the appellees
are not shown to have used arbors with screw-threads on any
part of the arbor that is within the plates. If the latter, then,
infringement being shown, we are satisfied that claim 8 cannot
be sustained. The contention of the appellant is, that the

Oct. 1882.]

HALL V. MACNEALE.

invention covered by that claim requires only a conical hole,
conical through the entire series of plates to be secured, and a
conical bolt corresponding thereto, and secured in place in the
plates by a key, or in any other substantial manner.
A patent was issued to the appellant Sept. 25, 1860, for an
"improvement in locks." The specification of that patent
says: "Resting upon the front plate B 6f the lock, as shown in
Figure 4, are seen two conical blocks, I I, a plan of which is
represented in Figure 11. These are precisely alike in their
construction, and they are adapted to the two stems G and H,
as will appear. They are of a length corresponding with the
thickness of the door M to which the lock is applied, so that,
when introduced into appropriate apertures in the door, their
outer faces will be flush with the outer face of the door, and
their inner faces flush with the inner face of the door, and
against the front face of the lock, when the same is properly
fixed upon the door. The blocks I P enter their apertures in
the door by a screw-thread, and they are held from turning
therein, so as to return outwardly, by an ordinary key drivert
into a key-seat drilled from the inside of the door before the
lock is applied to its place.... The conical blocks are cored
or drilled out in a peculiar manner to receive the two-part revolving arbor, as shown, the part p (pr), entering the narrow
end of the conical blocks, being of a cylindrical form, and the
part q (q), entering the large end of the conical blocks, being
of a conical form." These revolving arbors turn the stems G
and H, and thus the tumblers are adjusted and the bolt of the
lock is thrown. The drawing of the patent shows the conical
blocks I I as passing entirely through the door, the larger end
of the cone on the outside, and each end flush with its proper
face. These conical blocks were screw-threaded on their surface in the door, and were keyed from the inside. They were
cored, to admit the revolving arbors, but their bodies operated
in all respects like the conical arbors of the patent sued on.
In 1868 John Farrell and Jacob Weimar applied for a patent
for the same thing covered by claim 3 of the patent sued on,
and the Patent Office declared an interference between their
application and that patent. The appellant was examined as
a witness on his own behalf, in October, 1868, in that interfer-

94

HALL V.MACNEALE.

[Sup. Ct.

ence, and testified as follows: "3d Int. State what knowledge
you have had, in manufacturing safes, of the use of a series of
plates united by conical bolts made drill-proof, and when and
where you first had knowledge of their use. Ans. The first
was in the year 1858 or 1859. I came across one John P.
Lord's lock, which was said to be a combination, no-key-hole
bank lock. I negotiated with the parties representing it, to try
and introduce it and manufacture it. I then began to examine
into it more particularly, and found that the knob or dial
projecting through the door seemed- to be very insecure in
its construction. I set myself about so as to invent some
better way of securing the protection to the lock and also
the plates of the doors. I then invented a double and single
conical-shaped arbor or plug, made drill-proof, composed of
wrought-iron and steel welded together, the design of which
was to fully protect the lock against sledge-hammers or other
tools for driving the plug or plugs in, or from being drilled
into, they being hardened. The further design of the said
drill-proof plugs or arbors was to secure together a series of
plates of wrought-iron and steel or other suitable metal whereby
they could not be separated or pulled apart, more firmly binding them together than had been our former method of making
safes, or joining together such series of plates. Some time
after, during the year 1859 or 1860, the exact period of time I
cannot remember fully, we made burglar-proof safes of a series
of plates composed of iron and steel joined together, in which
we bad used more of the conical drill-proof bolts or arbors than
we bad formerly been in the habit of doing, for the express
purpose of more securely fastening the plates together. We
made them in the city of Cincinnati, in our factory, which was
situated about the middle of the square bounded by Columbia,
Sycamore, Front, and Main Streets. We have also used them
to a very considerable extent since that time, in our factory
situated at the southwest corner of Plum and Pearl Streets. I
secured a patent for my double conical drill-proof arbor in the
year 1860. My design of that was to secure full protection to
combination no-key-hole bank locks. My single arbor I don't
think I made any claim on at that time, but used it for the
express purpose of binding the series of plates together. This

Oct. 1882.]

HALL V. MACNEALE.

was also a conical drill-proof bolt, made of iron and steel. Our
modes of fastening the above-described arbors were in different
ways. Some we made conical, at the smaller end were made
soft, so that we could rivet them down into a counter-sunk
plate; others we cut a thread upon at the small end of the
arbor or drill-proof bolt, which was done, and, when fitted up,
the conical-shaped arbor or bolt was tempered; others were made
with a thread cut upon the end of them, designed for a nut, which
was designed to be used on the smaller end of them to fasten
them more securely, so that they could not be withdrawn from
the outside. The conical-shaped arbor, with the thread cut upon
the arbor, was designed to be screwed into the inner plate of a
series of plates, and then a key-seat cut in each of the threads
of the plate and of the arbor, so'that keys could be driven in to
prevent their being unscrewed and withdrawn from the outside,
thereby making them secure against the drill or the use of the
sledge-hammer or other tools for forcing them in, being of a
conical shape, or from removing any of the series of plates
through which they passed."
It is apparent from this testimony that the appellant regarded
the double conical-shaped arbor or plug, that is, the cored conical block, and the single conical-shaped arbor or plug, as being
the same invention. He was endeavoring to carry back to
1858 or 1859 the invention covered by claim 3 of his patent of
1867. The only difference he makes between the double and
the single arbor is that the former had a core remoVed from it.
The latter was solid. Both, he says, were drill-proof, and had
the same further design or object, namely, to secure together a
series of plates in safes. He also says, that in 1859 or 1860 he
made burglar-proof safes of a series of plates composed of iron
and steel joined together, using in them these single conical
bolts or arbors, for the express purpose of more securely fastening the plates together. He then describes the cutting of a
thread upon the arbor and one of the plates to screw the arbor
into the inner plate, and cutting a key-seat in the two threads,
and putting in a key to prevent the arbor from being unscrewed
from the outside. All this describes exactly what is covered
by claim 3 of the patent sued on.
In his testimony in the present suit the appellant states that

HALL V. MACNEALE.

[Sup. Ct.

he made three safes between 1859 and 1864 which were burglar-proof, and had conical bolts for fastening together the
different plates of metal. One of them had the double conical
bolt and no single bolt, and was sold to 'a firm in Dayton, Ohio.
One was made in 1858 or 1859, to be exhibited at a fair in
Ohio, and was sold to a banker in Lafayette, Indiana. It had
the single drill-proof conical arbors in the doors. The third
one was made to be exhibited at a fair held in 1860, and was
sold to the treasurer of Loraine County, Ohio. It had a few of
the single conical arbors. It does not distinctly appear that
the single conical bolts in the Lafayette and Loraine County
safes had screw-threads cut on them, but the appellant testifies
in this case that the double arbor of his patent of 1860 had a
screw-thread cut upon it running through one or more of the
inner plates, for the purpose of holding it.
It clearly appears, from the testimony of the appellant himself, that the idea of making a claim to the invention covered
by claim 3 of the patent sued on arose from the introduction
into safes, in 1866 or early in 1867, of plates of steel and iron
welded together. This enabled the value of the screw-threaded
conical bolt to be more fully developed, because the screwthread could be made more effective the whole length of
the bolt. But the whole invention existed in the bolt of the
patent of 1860. There was no invention in adding to the
solid conical bolt the screw-thread of the cored conical bolt.
Moreover, the use and sale of the solid conical bolts in the
Lafayette and Loraine County safes, even though those bolts
had no screw-threads on them, constituted a use and sale of the
invention covered by claim 3 of the patent in suit. The application for that patent was made in March, 1867, and the
patent was granted under the provisions of the act of July 4,
1836, c. 357, and of the act of March 8, 1839, c. 88. Within
the meaning of sects. 7 and 15 of the act of 1836, as modified
by sect. 7 of the act of 1839, the invention covered by claim 3
of the patent in suit was in use and on sale more than two
years before the appellant applied for that patent, and such use
and sale were, also, with the consent and allowance of the
appellant, and the use was a public use. It is contended that
the safes were experimental, and that the use was a use for

Oct. 1882.]

HALL V. MACNEALE.

experiment. But we are of opinion that this was not so, and
that the case falls within the principle laid down by this court
in Coffin v. Ogden, 18 Wall. 120. The invention was complete
in those safes. It was capable of producing the results sought
to be accomplished, though not as thoroughly as with the use
of welded steel and iron plates. The construction and arrangement and purpose and mode of operation and use of the bolts
in the safes were necessarily known to the workmen who put
them in. They were, it is true, hidden from view, after the
safes were completed, and it required a destruction of the safes
to bring them into view. But this was no concealment of
them or use of them in secret. They had no more concealment
than was inseparable from any legitimate use of them. As to
the use being experimental, it is not shown that any attempt
was made to see if the plates of the safes could be stripped off,
and thus to prove whether or not the conical bolts were efficient. The safes were sold, and, apparently, no experiment
and no experimental use were thought to be necessary. The
idea of a use for experiment was an afterthought. An invention of the kind might be in use and no burglarious attempt be
ever made to enter the safe, and it might be said that the use
of the invention was always experimental until the burglarious
attempt should be made, and so the use would never be other
than experimental.
But it is apparent that there was no
experimental use in this case, either intended or actual. The
foregoing views, which are controlling to show that claim 3 of
the patent in suit cannot be sustained, are in accordance with
those announced in Egbert v. Lippmann, 104 U. S. 333.
-Decreeaffirmed.

VOL.

XVii.

