READ V. PLATTSMOUTH.

[Sup. Ct.

READ V. PLATTSMOUTE.
1. Negotiable coupon-bonds were, without authority of law, issued in October,
1872, by a city in Nebraska, for the purpose of raising money wherewith to
construct a high-school building within her limits. They were sold, and the
proceeds applied accordingly. The legislature, by an act approved Feb.
18, 1873, infra, p. 571, legalized the proceedings of the city in the premises.
The Constitution of the State then in force declares that "the legislature
shall pass no special act conferring corporate powers," and that "no bill
shall contain more than one subject, which shall be clearly expressed in its
title." A purchaser of the bonds for full value, without notice of any
informality in their issue, to whom the city paid the interest thereon for
four years, brought suit to recover the amount of the coupons then due and
unpaid. Held, 1. That as by force of the transaction the city was bound to
refund the moneys he paid it in consideration of its void bonds, and as the
act, by confirming them, merely recognizes the existence of that obligation,
and provides a medium for enforcing it according to the original intention
of the parties, no new corporate powers were thereby conferred. 2. That
the title of the act is a full and apt description of its contents.
2. Under the second section of the act of Nebraska approved Feb. 25, 1875, infra,
p. 573, the bonds are valid obligations, and neither it nor the said act of Feb.
18, 1873, is in conflict with the Constitution of the State which was then in
force.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nebraska.
Read sought to recover, in an action at law, the amount of
certain overdue interest-coupons upon bonds issued by the city
of Plattsmouth, dated Oct. 1, 1872. Each bond contains a
recital that it "is one of a series of twenty-five of like tenor,
date, and amount, issued in pursuance of the orders of the city
council of the city of Plattsmouth, in the State of Nebraska,
for the construction of a high-school building in said city, authorized by a vote of the legal voters of said city of Plattsmouth, and in compliance with the laws of the State of
Nebraska, and for the payment of which the good faith, property, and effects of said city are hereby pledged."
These bonds were issued for the purpose of constructing a
high-school building in the city. The city sold them, and applied their proceeds to construct such a building, which is now
in actual use by the city; and the city paid interest on the
bonds for four years.
On the trial the plaintiff proved that he bought the entire

Oct. 1882.]

READ V. PLATTSMOUTH.

issue of the bonds for full value, without notice of any informality in their issue. There was no evidence offered in defence, and the court instructed the jury to find a verdict for
the defendant. The plaintiff excepted, and for the alleged
error in this ruling the judgment rendered upon the verdict in
favor of the city is now sought to be reversed.
The judgment rests upon the assumption that the bonds in
question are void, and this depends on these two propositions:
First,that at the time they were issued there was no law which
authorized them ; and, second, that certain acts of the legislature of Nebraska, subsequently passed, purporting to validate
them, are themselves void.
The legislation bearing upon the question appears to be as
follows:

-

The city of Plattsmouth was created, March 14, 1855, a
body corporate under that name, by a special act of the legislature of the Territory of Nebraska, with all the powers and
attributes of a municipal corporation. The forty-first section
is as follows: "The council is authorized to borrow money for any object in
their discretion, if at i regularly notified meeting, under a notice
stating distinctly the nature and object of the loan, and the amount
thereof as nearly as practicable, the voters of the city may determine in favor of the loan by a majority of two-thirds of the legal
voters at the said election, and the said loan can in no case be
diverted from the specified object.'
The legislature, in 1867, also passed "An Act to authorize
the common council of the city of Plattsmouth to raise money to
erect a central or high-school building, and for other purposes."
So much of the act as is material here is contained in the
following:

-

"SECT. 1. Be it enacted by the council and house of representatives of the Territory of Nebraska, That the mayor and common
council of the city of Plattsmouth shall, by virtue of their office, be
commissioners of the school-house fund in and for said city, and the
common council shall perform all the duties of such commissioners,
and shall possess all the rights, powers, and authority, and be subject to the same restraints of township boards of education, for the
purpose of raising money required for erecting, purchasing, and

READ V. PLATTSMOUTH.

[Sup. Ct.

leasing school-houses and procuring sites therefor, and the fitting
up and furnishing thereof.
"SECT. 4. All common, graded, and central schools organized
within the city of Plattsmouth shall be public and free to all children residing within the city. And the common council, by a vote
of the majority of all the council elected, are hereby authorized to
include in the general annual city tax-list such additional sum as in
their opinion, with the public school moneys for the year, will be
sufficient to support the school system of said city.
"SECT. 5. The common council shall have power and it shall be
the duty,

-

"First, To designate and purchase or lease in said city all necessary sites for school-houses therein, and to improve and fence the
same, as to them shall appear suitable and proper.
" Third, To make such by-laws and regulations as they may deem
necessary for the proper security and preservation of the schoolhouses and other property owned by the city for school purposes.
"SECT. 7. The mayor and common council are hereby authorized and directed to raise by loan, in anticipation of the taxes,
when deemed necessary, moneys not exceeding in the aggregate
$15,000, required for erecting, purchasing, or leasing school-houses
and procuring sites therefor.
"SECT. 8. That for the purpose of effecting such loan, the mayor
and common council are authorized to issue the bonds of said city,
under the seal of the said city, to the amount of $15,000, and no
more, and bearing interest at a rate not exceeding ten per centum per annum, redeemable in one, two, three, four, five, and six
years.
"SECT. 17. The title of all school-houses, sites, lots, furniture,
and all other school property, shall be vested in the city of Plattsmouth.
"SECT. 20. The generai school laws of this Territory in force at
the time of the passage of this act shall, so far as the same are
applicable, be taken and construed as part of this act." Territorial Laws of 1867, p. 38.
The Constitution of Nebraska, which took effect March 1,
1867, soon after the passage of the foregoing act, provided, in
art. 1, sect. 16, that "it shall be the duty of the legislature to
pass suitable laws to encourage schools and the means of instruction." Sect. 1, art. 8, declared that "the legislature shall
pass no special act conferring corporate powers;" and sect. 4

Oct. 1882.]

READ V. PLATTSMOUTH.

of the same article, that "the legislature shall provide for the
organization of cities and incorporated villages by general
laws," &c.
Immediately after the admission of the State into the Union
the legislature made a revision of its general school laws, and
provided, in sect. 60 of the act, that " nothing in this act shall
be construed so as to interfere with or abrogate any of the
rights, privileges, and immunities, duties or liabilities, conferred or prescribed by special enactment for any school district
comprised within any incorporated city." Laws of the State
of Nebraska, 1867, pp. 102, 110.
And accordingly the provisions of the special school law of
1867 were continued in force, and were in substance re-enacted
in the act of Feb. 18, 1873, "to regulate the public schools of
Plattsmouth City and provide means for their support."
The same authority to borrow money and to issue bonds
therefor, for school and school-house purposes, and subject to
the same limitations, is conferred by this act as that contained
in the original statute restricting the amount to $15,000.
The original charter of the city of Plattsmouth was superseded under the Constitution by a general law organizing municipal corporations, under which Plattsmouth became a city of
the second class. Laws of Nebraska of 1871, p. 26. This act,
passed March 1, 1871, authorized the city "to borrow money
on the credit of the city, and pledge the credit, revenue, and
public property of the city for the payment thereof," without
any limit as to amount, where the city council was instructed
to do so by a majority of all the votes cast at an election held
in such city for that purpose. Gen. Stats. Nebraska, 1873,
p. 148.
After the issue of the bonds in suit, the legislature of
Nebraska passed the following act, which was approved Feb.
18, 1873:" Aw ACT to legalize the proceedings of the city council of the city
of .Plattsmouth,in reference to the construction of a high-school
building, and to authorize the city council to complete the
same.
"WHEimAS, At a session of the city council of the city of Plattsmouth, county of Cass, and State of Nebraska, held on the first day

READ V. PLATTSMOUTH.

[Sup. Ct.

of July, A. D. 1872, the proposition of issuing the bonds of said city
to the amount of $25,000, for the purpose of erecting a high-school
building, was submitted to the voters of said city; and
"Whereas, At a special election held in said city, for the purpose
of voting on said proposition, on the twenty-second day of July,
1872, 6 majority of the votes cast were in favor of issuing said
bonds; and
"Whereas, In pursuance of said submission and vote, the city
council of said city of Plattsmouth have issued and sold said bonds,
and with the proceeds thereof have proceeded to let the contract for the construction and completion of said house, and have
appointed C. F. Driscoll and Al. L. White superintendents of the
construction of the same, and the work on said building has commenced; therefore,
"Be it enacted by the legislature of the State of Nebrasca:
"SECT. 1. That all acts and proceedings of the city council of
said city of Plattsmouth, in relation to issuing said bonds and letting the contract for the construction of said high-school building,
and the appointment of said C. F. Driscoll and ML. L. White to
superintend the construction of the same, and all matters and
proceedings connected therewith which may in any way affect the
validity of said bonds, or of the contract for the construction of
the said school-house, be and the same are hereby legalized, confirmed, and made valid in law.
" SECT. 2. And be it further enacted, That the city council of the
said city of Plattsmouth are hereby authorized and empowered to
proceed with the construction of said high-school building until its
completion; and for that purpose shall have full and exclusive control of all funds realized from the sale of bonds issued by the said
city of Plattsmouth for that purpose.
"SECT. 3.All funds now in the hands of the said city treasurer
of the said city of Plattsmouth which have been created by the
sale of the high-school bonds of the said city shall be applied to the
erection of said high-school building, and shall not be appropriated
or diverted to other use or purpose whatever.
" SECT. 4. And be it further enacted, That the right and title of
the said city of Plattsmouth in and to block number twenty-four in
said city, which has heretofore been platted and designated on the
recorded plat of said city as a park, and dedicated to public use,
and on which the said school-house is being erected, shall vest and
remain in the said city of Plattsmouth for school purposes, and the
same shall be held exclusively fbr said purpose.

Ot. 1882.]

READ V. PLAITSMOUTH.

" SECT. 5. This act shall take effect and be in force from and
after its passage." Session Laws, 1873, p. 72.

The legislature passed another. statute, approved Feb. 25,
1875, entitled " An Act to amend an act to incorporate cities
of the second class and to define their powers, approved March
1, 1871, and to legalize certain taxes therein mentioned."
The text of the act is as follows: " Be it 6nacted by the legislature of the St'ate of Nebraska:
" SECT. 1. That no tax heretofore levied in any city of the second
class shall be held to be invalid, illegal, or irregular because the
same was not levied within the time prescribed by the law in force
when the same was so levied; nor on account of any mere irregularity in the time or manner of assessment of property, or other
irregularity or omission not affecting the equality or substantial
justice of such tax, and such taxes shall be inserted in the tax list
and shall be collected in the same manner as other general taxes
are.
"SECT. 2. That all bonds heretofore issued by any city of the second class in good faith for the erection of, or to procure the means
for erecting, a high-school building within such city, or for heating
or furnishing the same, whether issued under a general or special
law providing therefor, or any bonds hereafter issued by such city
in exchange for any such bonds, shall be legal and valid; and any
tax heretofore or hereafter levied to pay the interest or a portion
of the principal of any such bonds, not exceeding five mills on the
dollar valuation of the taxable property in the city in any one year,
shall be legal and 'valid.
"SECT. 3. That in all cases in which cities of the second class have
collected and expended, for the use and benefit of such cities, either
in works of internal improvement or otherwise, moneys collected
from licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquors, such expenditures
are hereby declared to be legal, and the same is hereby ratified and
confirmed, and such cities of the second class are hereby exonerated
from any and all liability therefor.
"SECT. 4. This act shall talke effect and be in force from and
after its passage.' Laws of Nebraska, 1875, p. 205.
31r. 7ohn T . Dillon and Mr. Wager Swayne for the plaintiff
in error.
11t. John L. Webster for the defendant in error.

READ V. PLATSIOUTH.[S

[Sup. Ot.

delivered the opinion of the court,
and, after making the foregoing statement, proceeded as follows: We cannot accept the conclusion, urged upon us by the
counsel for the plaintiff in error, that the city of Plattsmouth
had authority to issue the bonds in question, under the power
conferred upon it as a municipal body, "to borrow money for
any purpose within its discretion," without reference to the
limit, as to the amount, imposed by the act of 1867, expressly
authorizing it to build school-houses. Whatever implications
of power as to school buildings might have been admissible, if
the law conferring municipal powers had stood alone, must
give place to the express declarations, with the accompanying
qualifications, contained in the statute that dealt by name with
the very subject. And we must, therefore, assume, at the
beginning, that while the city of Plattsmouth was authorized
to erect a high-school building, it could not lawfully borrow
money or issue its bonds for that purpose in excess of $15,000.
We are, therefore, required to consider whether the issue of
bonds involved in this litigation can be supported by the subsequent legislation which sought to cure the defects of their
origin.
No objection is made to either of the statutes relied on, on
the ground that the Constitution of Nebraska of 1867 forbade
retroactive legislation. The twelfth section of article 1 of that
instrument declares that "no bill of attainder, ex postfacto law,
or any law impairing the obligation of contracts, shall ever be
passed." This prohibition would not include legislation of the
class now in question.
They are attacked, however, on other grounds.
The first act, - that of Feb. 18; 1873,- it is claimed, is
made void by article 8 of section 1 of the Constitution of
Nebraska, which declares that "the legislature shall pass no
special act conferring corporate powers." It is contended that
the act in question, by legalizing bonds of the city, void
because it had no power to issue them, is legally equivalent to
an act conferring upon the city power to issue bonds, which is
conferring corporate power, and, being a special act, is therefore unconstitutional.
MR. JUSTICE MATTEBWS

Oct. 1882.]

READ V. PLATTSMOUTH.

But this conclusion we cannot adopt.
The act in question, so far as it relates to the bonds in suit,
does not confer any corporate power upon the city in the sense
of the Constitution of the State. The statute operates upon
the transaction itself, which had already previously been consummated, and seeks to give it a character and effect different
iii its legal aspect from that which it had when it was in
fieri. Whether such an effect may be given by a legitimate
exercise of legislative power, depends upon those considerations
which draw the line beyond which retroactive laws cannot
pass, and is not affected by the supposed form of the enactment as a special or general act conferring corporate power.
For it operates upon the rights of the parties, as determined by
the equity of their circumstances and relations, and gives to
them the sanction derived from subsequent confirmation, by
clothing them with forms which are essential to their enforce
ment, but not to their existence. Within the usual limitations
prescribed by our written constitutions, such as have been
quoted from that of Nebraska, this may be done, provided it
can be done without the destruction of rights recognized by the
law as vested.
In the present case the statute in question does not impose
upon the city of Plattsmouth, by an arbitrary act, a burden
without consent and consideration. On the contrary, upon the
supposition that the bonds issued, as to the excess over .$15,000,
were void, because unauthorized, the city of Plattsmouth
received the money of the plaintiff in error, and applied it to
the purpose intended, of building a school-house on property
the title to which is confirmed to it by the very statute now
claimed to be unconstitutional, and an obligation to restore the
value thus received, kept,'and used, immediately arose. This
obligation, according to general principles of law accepted in
Nebraska, was capable of judicial enforcement. Clark v. Saline
County, 9 Neb. 516; Louisiana v. Wood, 102 U. S. 294; New
Orleans v. Clark, 95 id. 644; Hitchcock v. Galveston, 96 id.
841; Parkersburghv. Brown, 106 id. 487; Chapman v. County
of Douglass, ante, p. 848.
As was said by Mr. Justice Field, in New Orleans v. Clark:
"A law requiring a municipal corporation to pay a demand

READ V. PLATTSMOUTH.

[Sup. 0t.

which is without legal obligation, but which is equitable and
just in itself, being founded upon a valuable consideration
received by the corporation, is not a retroactive law,- no
more so than an appropriation act providing for the payment
of a pre-existing claim. The c6nstitutional inhibition does not
apply to legislation recognizing or affirming the binding obligation of the State, or of any of its subordinate agencies, with
respect to past transactions." p. 654.
As the city of Plattsmouth was bound, by force of the transaction, to repay to the purchaser of its void bonds the consideration received and used by it, or a legal equivalent, the
statute which recognized the existence of that obligation, afid,
by confirming the bonds themselves, provided a medium for
enforcing it according to the original intention and promise,
cannot be said to be a special act conferring upon the city any
new corporate power. No addition is made to its enumerated
or implied corporate faculties; no new obligation is, in ,fact,
created. The language of the Constitution, forbidding special
legislation of that description, evidently refers to grants of
authority to be exercised by the body itself and in the future,
and a consideration of the evil intended to be remedied by the
prohibition will confine it to grants of that character, and will
not include a statute like that now under discussion. Here
the power of the legislative department of the State is directly
exercised upon the transaction itself, and upon a matter clearly
within the scope of its authority. It was the constitutional
duty of the legislature "to pass suitable laws to encourage
schools and the means of instruction." Under the terms of
this authority, having created, as it did, the city of Plattsmouth
a separate school district, it might prescribe the number and
character of the school-houses to be provided, and impose, if it
saw fit, directly, a tax upon the locality to defray the cost of
erecting and maintaining them. What the State might properly have done by direct action it may do through the public
agency of a municipal body, such as the city of Plattsmouth,
which, in the performance of the duty assigned, does not so
much exercise a corporate power of its own as discharge a
function of the State. An illustration and example of the distinction is found in the case of Foster v. Commissioners of Wood

Oct. 1882.]

READ V. PLATTSMOUTH.

County, 9 Ohio St. 540, where it was held that a public corporation for the construction and repair of highways was really
only a part of the machinery of the State, and its officers,
county or township officers discharging duties in connection
therewith, and that consequently an act of the General Assembly authorizing the body by name to complete the construction
of a particular highway, and to make an assessment of the cost
upon the property benefited, was not a special act conferring
corporate power, within the meaning of the constitutional prohibition. So it was held in Rie State v. Squire, 26 Iowa, 340,
that while the legislature would not, in view of the constitutional provision of that State, have the power to pass a special
law incorporating an independent school district, it would
nevertheless have the power to pass a curative act, legalizing
the defective organization of a school district already in existence under the general law authorizing the creation of independent school districts.
In view of the decisions of this court and the courts of the
several States in this country, affirming the capacity of municipal corporations to accept and administer trusts of property
given or devised for purposes of public charity, it would not be
denied that the city of Plattsmouth might lawfully receive and
apply a gift of money bestowed in trust to pay the principal
and interest of the bonds involved in this litigation, as having
been issued for the purpose of obtaining means with which to
erect a public-school building. The administration of such a
trust would not be contested on the ground that it was an
enlargement of its corporate powers. But the duty to repay
the consideration for them, employed by it in the same uses,
already existed; and its enforcement through the legislative
act, which prescribed a remedy, is not more open to the same
objection. It is not a special act conferring, corporate power;
it is merely a special act taking away from the corporation the
power to interpose an unconscionable defence against a just
claim, and to avoid an obligation to pay an equivalent for public benefits, which it has continued to enjoy.
The very proposition involved here was maintained by the
Supreme Court of Nebraska in the case of Commissioners of
Jefferson County v. The People, 5 Neb. 127. There it was
vol. xVI.

87

READ V. PLATTSMOUTH.

[Sup.
Ct.
[

decided that a special act of the legislature, authorizing the
county commissioners of Jefferson County to provide funds for
the payment of certain outstanding warrants of said county, by
issuing bonds, selling the same and using the proceeds, in payment of warrants issued to contractors for the erection of a
court-house and jail, was valid and effectual. The court said:
"That Jefferson County is justly indebted to the relator for
the amount of the warrants in question will not be controverted; and where such is the case, there is no doubt of the
power of the legislature to require the county to issue its bonds
for the amount of its indebtedness." In one aspect, this case
goes beyond the argument; for it contemplated further action
by the corporation in the issue of its bonds.
The second statute-that of Feb. 25, 1875- is not subject
to the objection to the former one just disposed of, for it is a
general act "to amend an act to incorporate cities of the second
class and to define their powers, approved Mlarch 1, 1871, and
to legalize certain taxes therein mentioned," and the terms of its
second section embrace the case of the bonds in controversy
in this suit. It expressly declares "that all bonds heretofore
issued by any city of the second class in good faith for the
erection of, or to procure the means for erecting, a high-school
building within such city, or for heating or furnishing the same,
whether issued under a general or special law providing therefor, or any bonds hereafter issued by such city in exchange for
any such bonds, shall be legal and valid; and any tax heretofore or hereafter levied to pay the interest or a portion of the
principal of any such bonds, not exceeding five mills on the
dollar valuation of the taxable property in the city in any one
year, shall be legal and valid."
Accordingly objections are made to its validity for want of
conformity to other provisions of the Constitution of the State,
the first of which, - that it conflicts with sect. 19, art. 2, which
declares that "no bill shall contain more than one subject,
is claimed,
which shall be clearly expressed in its title," -it
applies to both acts.
In regard to the special act of Feb. 18, 1873, however, it
seems to us unnecessary to say more than that the title appears
to be a full and apt description of the whole contents of the

Oct. 1882.]

READ V. PLATTSMOUTH.

act. The proceedings of the city council in reference to the
construction of a high-school building, which it is the object of
the act, as expressed in the title, to legalize, necessarily includes
the issue of the bonds authorized by it for that purpose.
In Mhite v. 1te City of Lincoln, 5 Neb. 505, 516, it was
said that "the object of this constitutional provision is to prevent surreptitious legislation by incorporating into bills obnoxious provisions which have no connection with the general
object of the bill, and of which the title gives no indication.
It will be sufficient, however, if the law have but one general
object, which is fairly expressed in the title of the bill."
Accordingly it was held in that case, as it was also in City
of Tecuinseh v. Phillips,id. 305, that the third section of the
act of Feb. 25, 1875, which ratified expenditures by cities of
the second class of moneys illegally collected for licenses for
the sale of intoxicating liquors, was void, because there was
nothing in the title of the act to indicate the object contemplated by that section. "It is in nowise amendatory," said the
court, in City of Tecurnseh v. Phillips, supra, "of the general
incorporation law for cities of the second class, nor does it
make any allusion to the legalization of any taxes whatever."
And in the same case, speaking of the entire act, the court
said: " But we fail to discover wherein it is in any particular
amendatory of the general act relating to cities of the second
class."
The act, therefore, may be considered as if its title were
simply that of "an act to legalize certain taxes therein mentioned."
The second section, which is the only one material in this
controversy, does legalize taxes theretofore or thereafter levied
to pay the interest on certain bonds; namely, such as having
been theretofore issued by any city of the second class, in good
faith for the erection of, or to procure the means for erecting,
a high-school building within such city, or for heating or furnishing the same, whether issued under a general or special
law providing therefor, &c., are thereby declared to be legal
and valid.
It is impossible to say that legalizing the bonds, and the
taxes levied to pay them, are two diverse subjects, when to

READ V. PLATTSMIOUTH.

[Sup. Ct.

legalize the taxes necessarily makes the bonds valid; for
nothing more strongly confirms an invalid bond than to make
provision for its payment. We have no hesitation, therefore, in upholding the second section of the act of Feb. 25,
1875, as a valid enactment,. so far as the present objection is
concerned.
As we do not consider it as an act to amend the general law
incorporating cities of the second class, rejecting that portion
of the title, it is not subject to the further objection, that it
does not conform to the constitutional requirement that "no
law shall be revived or amended, unless the new act contain
the entire act revived and the sections amended."
The remaining objection is not to its validity, but to its
application to the present case. It is argued that the second
section of the act relates only to bonds that have been issued
"under a general or special law providing therefor;" and that
the bonds now in controversy were not so issued, and cannot,
therefore, claim support from this provision.
If by this is meant, that no bonds are within the purview of
this section, except such as have been lawfully issued, the conclusion results in an absurdity; for it supposes an act of the
legislature passed to cure the invalidity of valid bonds.
If, on the other hand, the section is construed to mean that
all bonds that have been issued in good faith, for the purposes
mentioned, and under color of law, whether general or special,
but without actual authority, shall be deemed to be legal and
valid, the only rational and worthy effect is given to the enactment that can be deduced from its terms. We do not doubt
that such was the purpose of the legislature, and that it is the
meaning of the law.
In our opinion, the bonds in controversy are valid obligations of the city of Plattsmouth, under either of the two acts,
of Feb. 18, 1873, and of Feb. 25, 1875, respectively; and the
Circuit Court erred in its instructions to the jury to the contrary. For that error, the judgment is reversed and the cause
remanded with instructions to grant a
.New trial.

