Oct;. 1882.]

HILL

v.

HARDING.

HILL v. HAIDING.
A State court, in which an action against a bankrupt upon a debt provable in
bankruptcy is pending, must, on his application under sect. 5106 of the
Revised Statutes, stay all proceedings to await the determination of the
court in bankruptcy on the question of his discharge, unless unreasonable
delay on his part in endeavoring to obtain his discharge is shown, or the court
in bankruptcy gives leave to proceed to judgment for the purpose of ascertaining the amount due; even if an attachment has been sued out in the
action more than four months before the commencement of the proceedings
in bankruptcy, and has been dissolved by giving bond with sureties to pay
the amount of the judgment which might be recovered. And if the highest
court of the State denies the application, and renders final judgment against
the bankrupt, he may, although he has since obtained his certificate of discharge, bring a writ of error, and his assignee may be heard here in support
of the writ.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

-Mr. George W. Brandt for the plaintiff in error.
MIr. Adolph,Moses for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIo GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The material facts, as appearing by the record of this case in
the Supreme Court of Illinois, are as follows On the 16th of March, 1877, the original plaintiffs, in accordance with the statutes of Illinois, and upon the affidavit of
one of them that the defendant was indebted to them in the
sum of $8,264 for services as attorneys at law, and that he was
a resident of Illinois, and was about fraudulently to conceal,
assign or otherwise dispose of his property or effects so as to
hinder or delay his creditors, sued out from the Circuit Court
of Cook County a writ of attachment against him, upon which
his real estate was attached. On the 28th of March, 1877, in
accordance with those statutes, he dissolved the attachment by
giving bond with sureties to pay to the plaintiffs, within ninety
days after judgment, the amount of any judgment which might
be rendered against him on a final trial in the suit. On the
12th of April, 1878, a verdict was returned for the plaintiffs in
the sum of $8,500, and the defendant moved the court to set
it aside and grant a new trial. On the 7th of May, 1878, he

HILL V. HARDING.

[Sup. ot.

filed in the cause a duly attested copy of an order, dated the
1st of May, 1878, adjudging him a bankrupt under the Bankrapt Act of the United States.
On the 11th of May, 1878, before judgment on the verdict,
the defendant suggested the adjudication in bankruptcy (which
was admitted) and applied to the State court, under sect. 5106
of the Revised Statutes, for a stay of proceedings to await the
determination of the court in bankruptcy upon 'the question
of his discharge. On the same day, the court denied this application, as well as the motion for a new trial, and rendered
judgment against him on the verdict, and afterwards allowed
a bill of exceptions, which stated the facts above recited.
That judgment was affirmed by the Appellate Court for the
First District of Illinois on the 19th of November, 1878, and
by the Supreme Court of Illinois on the 18th of November,
1879. The opinion of the Suprem& Court is reported in 93
Illinois, 77. On the 6th of January, 1880, the defendant sued
out this writ of error.
At October Term 1880 of this court, the defendants in error
moved to dismiss the writ of error, because at the time it was
sued out the plaintiff in error had been discharged from the
obligation of the debt to them; and the assignee in bankruptcy moved to substitute his name for that of the bankrupt
as plaintiff in error. By the papers submitted with these
motions, it appeared that the assignment in bankruptcy was
made on the 17th of June, 1878, and a certificate of discharge
granted to the bankrupt on the 15th of September, 1879.
The court overruled both motions; but granted leave to the
assignee to be heard by counsel at the argument on the merits,
as to all matters affecting the estate of the bankrupt.
The record clearly shows that a privilege under sect. 5106 of
the Revised Statutes was claimed by the original defendant,
and was denied by the highest court of the State. There can
therefore be no doubt of the authority of this court to revise
the judgment.
The section in question is as follows: "No creditor whose
debt is provable shall be allowed to prosecute to final judgment
any suit at law or in equity therefor against the bankrupt,
until the question of the debtor's discharge shall have been

Oct. 1882.]

HILL V. HARDING.

determined; and any such suit or proceedings shall, upon the
application of the bankrupt, be stayed to await the determination of the court in bankruptcy on the question of the discharge; provided there is no unreasonable delay on the part of
the bankrupt in endeavoring to obtain his discharge; and provided also that, if the amount due the creditor is in dispute,
the suit, by leave of the court in bankruptcy, may proceed to
judgment for the purpose of ascertaining the amount due,
which amount may be proved in bankruptcy, but execution
shall be stayed."
The terms of this enactment are as broad and as peremptory
as possible. "No creditor whose debt is provable shall be
allowed to prosecute to final judgment" any suit thereon against
the bankrupt; and such suit "shall, upon the application of the
bankrupt, be stayed." This provision, like all laws of the United
States made in pursuance of the Constitution, binds the courts
of each State, as well as those of the nation. Upon the application of the bankrupt to the court, State or national, in which
the suit is pending, it is the duty of that court to stay the
proceedings "to await the determination of the court in bankruptcy on the question of the discharge," unless there is unreasonable delay on the part of the bankrupt in endeavoring to
obtain his discharge, or unless, the amount of the debt being in
dispute, the United States court sitting in bankruptcy gives
leave to proceed to judgment for the purpose of ascertaining
that amount. If neither the bankrupt nor his assignee in bankruptcy applies for a stay of proceedings, the court may of course
proceed to judgment. .Doe v. Childress, 21 Wall. 642; .EBster
v. Gaff, 91 U. S. 521; Norton v. Switzer, 93 id. 355.
The stay does not operate as a bar to the action, but only as
a suspension of proceedings until the question of the bankrupt's
discharge shall have been determined in the United States
court sitting in bankruptcy. After the determination of that
question in that court, the court in which the suit is pending
may proceed to such judgment as the circumstances of the case
may require. If the discharge is refused, the plaintiff, upon establishing his claim, may obtain a general judgment. If the
discharge is granted, the court in which the suit is pending may
then determine whether the plaintiff is entitled to a special

HILL V. HARDING.

[Sup. Ct.

judgment for the purpose of enforcing an attachment made
.more than four months before the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy, or for the purpose of charging sureties
upon a bond given to dissolve such an attachment. But, so
long as the question of the discharge in bankruptcy is undetermined, the suit cannot, against the objection of the bankrupt
or of his assignee in bankruptcy, proceed for any purpose,
except in one of two events, an unreasonable delay of the bankrupt in endeavoring to obtain his discharge, or an order of the
court in bankruptey granting leave to proceed for the single
purpose of ascertaining the amount due.
The result required by the very words of the statute is confirmed by a consideration of the reasons upon which it rests.
Its purpose is not merely to protect the bankrupt, in case he
obtains a certificate of discharge, from having the original cause
of action against him merged in a judgment, the right of action
upon which might not be barred by the discharge; but to prevent him, so long as the question of his discharge is undetermined, from being harassed by suit upon any debt provable in
bankruptcy, whether it would or would not be barred by a certificate of discharge, and whether the attachment or other
security obtained in the suit would or would not be affected
by .he proceedings in bankruptcy; and also to afford to the
assignee in bankruptcy, to whom all the property of the bankrupt has passed, opportunity to assume the defence of the suit,
and to contest the existence and amount of the plaintiff's claim,
and the validity of his attachment.
This view, which is supported alike by the words and by the
reason of the statute, is in accordance with the preponderance
of decisions in the highest courts of the several States, and in
the District Courts of the United States, as shown by the cases
cited in argument.'
The plaintiffs' debt being provable in bankruptcy, no unreasonable delay on the part of the bankrupt in endeavoring to
obtain his discharge being shown, and the court in bankruptcy
I Metcalf's Case, 2 Benedict, 78; Rosenberg's Case, 3 id. 14; Penny v. Taylor, 10
Bankr. Reg. 200; Whitney's Case, 18 id. 563;' Ray v. Wight, 119 Mass. 426;
National Bank of Clinton v. Taylor, 120 id. 124; Towne v. Rice, 122 id. 67; Page v.
Cole, 123 id. 93; Seavey v. Beckler, 128 id. 471; McKay v. Funk, 37 Iowa, 661;
Bratton v. Anderson, 5 S. C. 504; Cohen v. Duncan, 64 Ga. 341.

Oct. 1882.]

HILL V. HARDING.

having granted no leave to proceed to judgment for the purpose
of ascertaining the amount due, the decision of the State court,
denying the application, made by the bankrupt before judgment, for a stay of proceedings to await the determination of
the question of his discharge, and rendering a general judgment
against him, was erroneous, and he had the right to sue out
and prosecute a writ of error to reverse it. The assignee in
bankruptcy has also been permitted to be heard in support of
the writ of error, because of his authority and duty to defend
the estate of the bankrupt against claims and attachments
which he believes to be invalid.
The result is that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois must be reversed, and the case remanded to that court for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
The judgment of the State court being reversed for the reason that it denied the stay of proceedings to which the original
defendant was entitled under the provision of the Bankrupt
Act until the question of his discharge in bankruptcy should
have been determined, there is no occasion to consider the
question (which may perhaps depend upon the statutes or the
practice of the State) whether it will be within the authority
of the court in which the suit is pending, now that the defendant has obtained his discharge in bankruptcy, to render a
special judgment in favor of the plaintiffs for the purpose of
charging the sureties on the bond given to dissolve the attachment; or any other question which may hereafter arise upon
the production by the defendant of his certificate of discharge,
or upon the suggestion of the assignee in bankruptcy.
Judgment reversed.

