NATIONAL BANK OF XENIA V. STEWART.

[Sup. Ct.

to administer them. The absence of such authority in notaries
public seems to have been recognized by Congress when it
passed the act of Feb. 26, 1881, c. 82, declaring "that the
oath or affirmation required by sect. 5211 of the Revised Statutes, verifying the returns made by national banks to the
Comptroller of the Currency, when taken before a notary public properly authorized and commissioned by the State in
which such notary resides and the bank is located, or any other
officer having an official seal, authorized in such State to administer oaths, shall be a sufficient verification, as contemplated
by said section 5211: Provided, that the officer administering
the oath is not an officer of the bank."
What has been said renders it unnecessary to consider any
other question of law certified by the judges of the Circuit
Court.

NATIONAL BANx OF XENIA V. STEWART.
At the time of borrowing money from a national bank, A. delivered to it, as
collateral security for the debt thereby created, the certificate of his shares of
its capital stock. On his failure to pay at the stipulated time, the bank sold
the stock at its full market value, and applied the entire proceeds to his credit.
On the ground that sect. 5201 of the Revised Statutes prohibited a loan by
the bank "on the security of the shares of its own capital stock," A. brought
an action for the proceeds. Held, that he is not entitled to recover.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.
The administrators of the estate of Daniel McMillan, deceased, brought an action against the First National Bank of
Xenia, Ohio, a corporation formed under the National Bank
Act of the United States, to recover the sum of $4,200, with
interest. The complaint alleges that in October, 1876, the
bank was in possession of thirty shares of its capital stock
belonging to the deceased; that it then unlawfully converted
them to its own use and sold them, receiving therefor the sum
mentioned, which it refuses to account for or deliver to the
plaintiffs, although a demand for it has been made.

Oct. 1882.]

NATIONAL BANK OF XENIA V. STEWART.

677

The bank, in its answer, avers that in April, 1876, McMillan
was owing to it a debt previously contracted, greater in amount
than the value of the shares of capital stock; that it being
necessary to secure the bank from loss, he delivered to it certificates of the shares with other property, as collateral security
for the debt; that in October, 1876, the debt being unsatisfied
and overdue, the bank sold the shares at their full market
value and applied the proceeds as a credit upon it; and that
after such application a large amount remained due to the bank
which is still unpaid. The evidence produced at the trial
tended to show that the shares were delivered by McMillan to
the bank as collateral security for money loaned to him at the
time, and were thus held until they were sold. The court
charged the jury that if they found from the evidence that the
stock was delivered by him to the bank as a pledge or collateral
security for a present loan of money made to him by the bank at
the time of such delivery, the plaintiffs were entitled to recover
the amount of the proceeds, with interest from the time of sale;
as the defendant was prohibited by the currency act from thus
receiving its own stock. To this charge the defendant excepted. The plaintiffs recovered a verdict, and to review the
judgment entered thereon this writ of error was brought.
The case was argued by Mr. John Little for the plaintiff
in error, and by Mr. Edgar M. Johnson for the defendants in
error.
.JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
Section 5201 of the Revised Statutes declares that "no association shall make any loan or discount on the security of the
shares of its own capital stock, nor be the purchaser or holder
of any such shares, unless such security or purchase shall be
necessary to prevent loss upon a debt previously contracted in
good faith; and stock so purchased or acquired shall, within six
months from the time of its purchase, be sold or disposed of at
public or private sale; or, in default thereof, a receiver may be
appointed to close up the business of the association."
While this section in terms prohibits a banking association
from making a loan upon the security of shares of its own stock,
it imposes no penalty, either upon the bank or borrower, if a
M

ESCANABA

0. V. CHICAGO.

[Sup. 0t.

loan upon such security be made. If, therefore, the prohibition
can be urged against the validity of the transaction by any one
except the government, it can only be done before the contract
is executed, while the security is still subsisting in the hands
of the bank. It can then, if at all, be invoked to restrain or
defeat the enforcement of the security. When the contract has
been executed, the security sold, and the proceeds applied to
the payment of the debt, the courts will not interfere with the
matter. Both bank and borrower are in such case equally the
subjects of legal censure, and they will be left by the courts
where they have placed themselves.
There is another view of this case. The deceased authorized
the bank, in a certain contingency, to sell his shares. Supposing it was unlawful for the bank to take those shares as security for a loan, it was not unlawful to authorize the bank to sell
them when the contingency occurred. The shares being sold
pursuant to the authority, the proceeds would be in the bank
as his property. The administrators, indeed, affirm the validity
of that sale by suing for the proceeds. As against the deceased,
however, the money loaned was an offset to the proceeds. In
bither view the administrators cannot recover.
The judgment of the court, therefore, must be reversed and
the cause remanded for a new trial; and it is
So ordered.

ESCANABA COMPANY V. CHICAGO.
1. The Chicago River and its branches, although lying within the limits of the

State of fllinois, are navigable waters of the United States over which
Congress, in the exercise of its power under the commerce clause of the
Constitution, may exercise control to the extent necessary to protect, preserve, and improve their free navigation; but until that body acts, the State
has plenary authority over bridges across them, and may. vest in Chicago
jurisdiction over the construction, repair, and use of those bridges within
the city.
2. There is nothing in the ordinance of July 13,1787, or in the subsequent legislation of Congress, that precludes the State from exercising that authority.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Northern District of Illinois.

