UNITED STATES

v.

UNITED STATES

vr.

TELLER.

[Sup. Ct.

TELLER.

By a special act, B. was allowed a pension of fifty dollars per month, which was
paid to him until he claimed and received, under a subsequent general act,
seventy-two dollars per month. Held, that he is not entitled to take under
both acts.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Section 4 of the act of March 3, 1873, c. 234, entitled " An
Act to revise, consolidate, and amend the pension laws,"
provides that from and after June 4, 1872, all persons entitled
by law to a less pension than thereinafter specified, who, while
in the military or naval service of the United States, and in
the line of duty, have been so permanently and totally disabled
as to render them utterly helpless, or so nearly so as to require
the regular personal httendance of another person, shall be entitled to a pension of thirty-one dollars and twenty-five cents
per month.
The act of June 18, 1874, c. 298, granted a pension of fifty
dollars per month to the persons described in the act of
March 3, 1873, in lieu of the pension of thirty-one dollars and
twenty-five cents granted by that act.
The act of June 16, 1880, c. 236, provides as follows:
"All soldiers and sailors . . . vho are now receiving the pension of fifty dollars per month," under the act last aforesaid,
"shall receive, in lieu of all pensions now paid them by the
government of the United States, and there shall be paid to
them, in the same manner as pensions are now paid to such
persons, the sum of seventy-two dollars per month." It further
declares "that all pensioners whose pensions shall be increased
by the provisions of this act, from fifty dollars per month to
seventy-two dollars per month, shall be paid the difference between said sums monthly, from June 17, 1878, to the time of
the taking effect of this act."
Prior to the passage of the last-mentioned act Congress had
passed the act of March 3, 1879, c. 290, entitled "An Act
granting an increase of pension to Ward B. Burnett." It is as
follows: "That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is
hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension-roll
the name of Ward B. Burnett, and pay him a pension of fifty

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES v. TELLER.

dollars per month in lieu of the pension he now receives; but
nothing in this act contained shall entitle the said Ward B.
Burnett to arrears of pension."
On Oct. 20, 1882, Ward B. Burnett, the person named in
the act last mentioned, filed, as relator, in the name of the
United States, a petition in the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia against Henry M. Teller, Secretary of the Department of the Interior, in which he recited the foregoing legislation of Congress, and averred that be was a survivor of the war
with Mexico, and other wars, in which he was an officer in the
army of the United States; that he was wounded at the battle
of Cherubusco on Aug. 24, 1847; that for wounds received in
battle he was paid, under the general laws, a pension at the
rate of thirty dollars per month, which he received from Aug.
1, 1848, until March 3, 1879; that under the special act of the
date last mentioned a pension certificate, dated June 6, 1879,
signed by the Secretary of the Interior and countersigned by
the Commissioner of Pensions, was executed and delivered to
him, on which he was paid from March 3, 1879, to June 4,
1882, a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month.
The petition further alleged that the relator had applied to
the Commissioner of Pensions to be paid the increased rates of
pension authorized by the said acts of Congress, approved respectively March 3, 1873, June 18, 1874, and June 16, 1880,
and had received another pension certificate, dated July 17,
1882, which recited that the relator was entitled to a pension
at the rate of thirty dollars per month, to commence on Aug. 1,
1848, and of thirty-one and one-fourth dollars per month from
June 4, 1872, and of fifty dollars per month from June 4, 1874,
and seventy-two dollars per month from June 17, 1878; that
on July 21, 1882, the relator returned to the Secretary of the
Interior the pension certificate which had been issued to him
under the special act of Congress passed March 3, 1869, granting him a pension of fifty dollars per month; that when he
returned said certificate he was without the advice of counsel,
and was fearful that he would be deprived of his greater pension under the general pension laws; and that, on Oct. 4, 1882,
relator respectfully demanded in writing of the Secretary of
the Interior that he return to him said certificate, which the
VOL. XVII.

5

UNITED

STATES

v.

TELLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Secretary, by his decision made Oct. 18, 1882, refused to do.
The petition prayed for the writ of mandamus to compel the
Secretary to return said certificate to the relator, and to cause
to be paid to him the accrued pension due thereon.
The Secretary of the Interior filed an answer to this petition,
in which he alleged that since June 4, 1872, the relator had
received under the general pension laws payments as follows:
From June 4, 1872, to June 4, 1874, the sum of $750, being
at the rate of $31.25 per month; from June 4, 1874, to June
17, 1878, the sum of $2,421.66, being at the rate of $50 per
month; from June 17, 1878, to June 4, 1882, the sum of
$3,424.80, being.at the rate of $72 per month; from June 4,
1882, to Sept. 4, 1882, at the same rate, $216, - making in all
the sum of .$6,812.46; and that, in addition to the payments
under those laws, lie had received, under the special act of
March 3, 1879, granting him by name a pension at the rate
of fifty dollars per month, payments as follows: from March 3,
1879, to June 4, 1882, the sum of $1,951.67, being at the rate
of $50 per month.
The answer further alleged that on July 21, 1882, the relator addressed a letter of that date to the Secretary of the
Interior, with which he returned the certificate dated June 17,
1882, issued to him under the special act of March 3, 1879,
granting him a pension of fifty dollars per month. That letter
was as follows : "WAsmNGToN, July 21st, 1882.
"Hon. H. M. TELLER, Secretary of the Interior.
"SiR, - To relieve your department from further embarrassment
in reference to what has been styled Gen. Ward B. Burnett's claim
of double pension, I hereby return to you my certificate, and relinquish any claim that I may have under it from date of this letter,
made under a special act of Congress (increase), dated March 3d,
1879, upon which I have been drawing fifty dollars per month, and
shall be satisfied with receiving my pension under the general pension laws, granted by yourself, under the several opinions of the
Attorney-General, dated July 17, 1882, until Congress, in its bounty,
shall think proper to increase my pension of seventy-two dollars per
month under said general pension laws again.
"I have the honor to be, very respectfully, yours,
"WARD B.

BURNETT2'

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES v. TELLER.

The case having, by stipulation of parties, been heard in
the first instance at the general term of the Supreme Court of
the District, a judgment was rendered dismissing the petition.
This writ of error is prosecuted to review that judgment.
.3r.James H. .iandevillefor the plaintiff in error.
Thie Solicitor-General, contra.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court, and,
after stating the case as above, proceeded as follows : The relator does not claim that there is anything due him
under the pension laws prior to June 4, 1872. It appears from
the answer of the Secretary of the Interior, and there is no
evidence to the contrary, that since June 4, 1872, the relator
has received every cent that is due him under the general pension laws. The special act of March 3, 1879, c. 290, declared
that the pension of fifty dollars thereby granted to him by
name should be in lieu of the pension he was then receiving,
and at least cut off all claim to arrears of pensions under it.
All, therefore, that is left of his case is his contention that in
addition to that pension he is entitled to seventy-two dollars
per month allowed him by the act of June 16, 1880, c. 236,
and which has been paid him.
It appears from the answer of the Secretary of the Interior
that under the advice of the Department of Justice the relator
was paid both pensions from March 3, 1879, to June 4, 1882.
The complaint of the relator is that the payment of double
pensions is not continued, and it is for the purpose of enforcing
his right to his special pension of fifty dollars, in addition to
the general pension of seventy-two dollars, that he asks that
the Secretary of the Interior may be compelled to return the
certificate issued to him under the special act.
The right of the relator to double pensions, if he ever had
such right, has been effectually cut off by sect. 5 of the act of
July 25, 1882, c. 349, which declares "that no person who is
now receiving or shall hereafter receive a pension under a special
act shall be entitled to receive, in addition thereto, a pension
under the general law, unless the special act expressly states
that the pension granted thereby is in addition to the pension
which said person is entitled to receive under the general law."

UNITED STATES v. TELLER.

[Sup. Ot.

It was competent for Congress to pass this act. No pensioner
has a vested legal right to his pension. Pensions are the bounties of the government, which Congress has the right to give,
withhold, distribute, or recall, at its discretion. Walton v.
Cotton, 19 How. 355. Therefore, the contention of the relator
that, having received the pension of seventy-two dollars under
the general law, he is also entitled to the pension of fifty dollars
granted him by the special act, is without ground to rest on.
His pension certificate, issued under the special act, can be
of no service to him unless he wishes to relinquish the pension
of seventy-two dollars under the general law, and fall back
upon the pension of fifty dollars granted him by the special act.
But he expresses no such purpose. His object is to get the
certificate in order to draw double pensions, which the law
says he shall not have. He voluntarily surrendered his pension
under the special act, in order to receive the larger pension to
which he became entitled on the passage of the general act of
June 16, 1880. As he is not entitled to any pension money
upon the certificate under the special act, which he voluntarily
surrendered, unless he waives his right to receive the larger
pension given him by the general law, which he does not do, a
judgment that the certificate be returned to him would be
futile. From all that appears by the record the relator has
been accorded by the officers of the Department of the Interior
and of the Pension Bureau all his rights. Up to Sept. 4, 1882,
he was paid all the pension money due him under any act of
Congress. After that date he is entitled under existing laws
to a pension of seventy-two dollars per month and no more,
and this the Pension Bureau is ready to pay him. The Supreme Court of the District was, therefore, right in refusing
the writ of mandamus, and its judgment must be
Affirmed.

