Oct. 1882.]

PANA v. BOWLER.

patented which will bring it within the designation of mineral
land in the various acts of Congress, in which it is excepted
out of grants to railroad companies, and forbidden to be sold or
pre-empted as ordinary or agricultural lands are.
Suppose that when such land has been conveyed by the government it is afterwards discovered that it contains valuable
deposits of the precious metals, unknown to the patentee or to
the officers of the government at the time of the conveyance,
will such subsequent discovery enable the government to sustain a suit to set aside the patent or the grant? If so, what are
the rights of innocent purchasers from the grantee, and what
limitations exist upon the exercise of the government's right?
We can answer none of these questions here, and can only
order that the decree below be
Affirmed.

PANA v. BOWLER.
1. The act of the General Assembly of Illinois approved Feb. 24, 1869, amendatory of an act entitled "An Act to incorporate the Illinois Southeastern
Railway Company," approved Feb. 25, 1867, removed the limitation of
30,000 imposed upon the amount which, by the latter act, "any town in
any county under township organization is authorized and empowered to
donate to said company."
2. The court reaffirms the ruling in Harter v. Kernochan, 103 U. S. 562, that the
duly signed and countersigned township bonds, payable to the company or
bearer, which recite that they are duly issued in compliance with the vote
of the legal voters of the township, cast at an election held by virtue of
the above-mentioned acts of Feb. 25, 1867, and Feb. 24, 1869, are valid in the
hands of a tona fide holder.
3. An irregularity in conducting the election will not defeat a recovery on the
bonds, or on the coupons thereto attached, nor overcome the presumption
that the plaintiff, in the usual course of business, became at their date the
holder of them for value.
4. A decree in personlam, rendered by a court of the State of Illinois, declaring
the bonds to be void, does not bind a non-resident holder of them who was
not named as a party to the suit and did not appear therein, and who had
no notice of the pendency thereof other than by a publication addressed
to the "unknown holders and owners of bonds and coupons issued by the
town of Pana."
5. Coupons after their maturity bear interest at the rate prescribed by the law
of the place where they are payable.
VOL. XVIL
34

PANA V. BOWLER.

[Sup. Ct.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Southern District of Illinois.
This was an action of assumpsit brought by James H. Bowler and Isaac H. Merrill against the town of Pana, Illinois,
upon coupons cut from certain bonds issued by the town, dated
June 23, 1873. The defendant pleaded the general issue, and
the parties having waived a jury, submitted the case to the
court upon the facts as well as the law. The court found the
issues of fact for the plaintiffs, and rendered judgment in their
favor for $7,272.02. This writ of error is brought by the
defendant to review that judgment.
The parties made an agreed statement, and the court a
speial finding, of facts. From these and the pleadings in
the case the following facts appear: On Feb. 25, 1867, an act was passed by the Illinois legislature "to incorporate the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company." Sects. 9 and 10 of this act declared as follows:"SECT. 9. Any town, in any county under township organization, is hereby authorized and empowered to donate to said company any amount, not to exceed thirty thousand dollars: Provided,
that no such donation by any such town to said company shall be
made, unless the question of making such donation shall have been
first submitted to the legal voters of such town at an election hereafter to be provided for: And provided further,that no donation so
made, nor any part thereof, nor any interest accruing thereon, or
upon any part thereof, shall be paid, or become due or payable to
said company, until said company, or its assigns or employ~s, shall
have completed their said railroad, or some certain part of said
road, or its branch, as may have been agreed upon by the contracting parties.
"SECT. 10. No such election for the purpose of submitting the
question of making a donation by any such town, authorized by
section 9 of this act to donate to this company, shall be held until
the directors of said company shall have filed a proposition to the
inhabitants of said town with the county clerk of the county
wherein such town is situate, and a copy of the same with the
clerk of said town, and, if there be a newspaper published in said
county, said proposition shall be published in full in the same,
whereupon it shall be the duty of the clerk of such town to post
up printed or written notices of the time and place of holding such

Oct. 1882.]

PANA v. BowLER.

election in at least ten public places in such town, together with a
copy of such proposition, at least twenty days before the day for
holding such election; at which election the legal voters of such
township shall vote for or against such proposition; and if a majority of all the votes cast be for such proposition, the trustees of such
town shall so certify the same to the clerk of the county court of
the county wherein the town is situated, and such county clerk
shall, upon application of the company, after the donation so voted
by any such town shall have become due and payable, under the
terms and conditions of the proposition under which said election
was rendered, compute and assess upon all the taxable property in
said town an amount sufficient to pay such donation, or any part or
instalment of the same so then being due and payable; which
taxes so assessed shall be collected as other taxes; and the taxes so
collected shall be paid to the treasurer of said company. And the
election herein provided for shall be held, canvassed, and returned
as other regular town elections."
Afterwards, on Feb. 24, 1869, another act was passed to
amend the act to incorporate the Illinois Southeastern Railway
Company, sect. 10 of which was as follows: "SECT. 10. That any village, city, county, or township organized

under the township organization law, or any other law of this State,
along or near the route of said railway or its branches, or that are
in anywise interested therein, may, in their corporate capacity, subscribe to the stock of said company, or render donations to said
company to aid in constructing and equipping said railway: Provided, that no such subscriptions or donations shall be made until
the same shall be voted for, as hereinafter provided. That whenever twenty legal voters of any such city, village, county, or
township shall present to the clerk thereof a written application
requesting that an election shall be held to determine whether
such village, city, county, or township shall subscribe to the capital
stock of said company or make a donation thereto, to aid in building or equipping said railway, stating the amount, and whether to
be subscribed or donated, and the rate of interest and times of
payment of the bonds to be issued in payment thereof, such clerk
shall receive and file such application, and shall immediately proceed to post written or printed notices, calling an election to be
held by the legal voters of such village, city, county, or township,
which notice shall be posted in ten of the most public places of

PANA V. BOWLER.

[Sup. Or.

such village, city, county, or township, for thirty days preceding
an election; and said notiees shall state fully the object of such
election, and such election shall be held and conducted, and returns
thereof made as in general elections provided by law in this State,
and as provided by the charters of any such village or city: Provided, that at any election held under the provisions of this act it
shall not be necessary to cause a registration of the voters of such
villages, cities, counties, or townships; and if a majority of the
votes cast "at such election shall be in favor of such subscription
or donation, then the corporate authorities of such village, city,
county, or township, organized under the township organization
laws of this State, the supervisors of such township shall subscribe
to the capital stock of said company or donate thereto, as shall
have been determined at such election, the amount so voted at such
election, and shall issue the bonds with interest coupons attached,
. . . said bonds to be signed, . . . in case of a township, by the
supervisor thereof, and .. . to be countersigned by the clerk of
said . . .township," &c.
Afterwards the Springfield and Illinois Southeastern Railway
Company, to which the bonds in question in this case were
issued, was created by the consolidation of the Pana, Springfield,
and Northwestern Railroad Company and the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company. The consolidation was authorized
by the charters of the two companies, and the new company
succeeded to all the rights, franchises, and powers of the constituent companies. Harter v. KYernochan, 103 U. S. 562. In
pursuance of sect. 10 of the said act of Feb. 24, 1869, a petition was presented to the town clerk of Pana Township to
order an election to be held on April 30, 1870, to decide
whether said township should donate to the Springfield and
Illinois Southeastern Railway Company the sum of $100,000
in bonds to fall due in twenty years, or at the option of
the township in five years from this date, with interest at
the rate of eight per cent per annum, payable semi-annually.
On April 30, 1870, an election was held in said township in
pursuance of the petition, and a notice thereof given according to law. The meeting at which the election was held
was called to order by the town clerk, and one J. W. Stark
was on motion chosen moderator, and was sworn in by the
town clerk and presided over the election. At the election

Oct. 1882.]

PANA V. BOWLER.

thus held four hundred and thirty-eight votes were cast for
and twenty-four against said donation. In the spring, summer, and fall of the year 1873, the supervisor and town clerk
of said township, in pursuance of said election and without
any other authority of law than said election and the charters
and amendments above referred to, issued to the Springfield
and Illinois Southeastern Railway Company dne hundred bonds
of the township of Pana, of 31,000 each, payable and bearing
interest according to the rate aforesaid. All the bonds were
of like tenor and effect except as to their number. The following is a copy of one of them: "UNITED
"STATE

STATES OF

OF ILLINOIS,

A .incA.

COUNTY

OF CHEISTIAN.

[$1,000.
. Pana Township.
"No. 6.]
"Eight per cent. railroad bond. Registered by auditor of public
accounts. Principal and interest collected and paid by the
treasurer of State of Illinois.
"Know all men by these presents that the township of Pana, in
the county of Christian, and State of Illinois, acknowledges itself
indebted to the Springfield and Illinois Southeastern Railway Company, or bearer, in the sum of one thousand dollars,. with interest
f'om the date hereof, at the rate of eight per cent. per annum, payable semi-annually on the first days of January and July of each
year, at the agency of the State treasurer of the State of Illinois,
in New York City, on the presentation and surrender of the respective interest coupons hereto attached. The principal of this bond
shall be due and payable after five years and within twenty years
of the date hereof, at the option of said township, at said agency in
the city of New York.
"This bond is one of a series amounting to one hundred thousand dollars, issued by said township in compliance with the vote
of the legal voters thereof at an election held on the thirtieth day of
April, A. D. 1870, under and by virtue of the authority conferred
by an act of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois, entitled
'An Act to incorporate the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company,' approved February 25th, 1867, and an act amendatory
thereof, approved February 24th, 1869, and in accordance with
the provisions of an act of said General Assembly, entitled ' An
Act to fund and provide for paying the railroad debts of counties,

[Sup. Ct.

PANA V. BOWLER.

cities, townships, and towns,' in force April 16th, 1869. And for
the payment of said sum of money and accruing interest thereon,
in the manner aforesaid, the faith of the said township of Pana
is hereby irrevocably pledged, as is also its property, revenue, and
resources.
"In testimony whereof the said township of Pana has caused
these presents to be signed by its supervisor and countersigned by
its clerk, this twenty-eighth day of June, A. D. 1873.
" GROVE P. LAWRENCE, Supervisor.
"EDwIN SANDERS, Clerk."
At the time the bonds and coupons were issued Grove P.
Lawrence was the supervisor of said township of Pana, and
Edwin Sanders was its clerk, and their signatures to the bonds
and coupons are genuine.
The coupons attached to said bonds were all of the same
tenor and effect, except in respect of their numbers. The
following is a copy of the coupon attached to the above recited bond: -

"$40. The township of Pana, Christian County, Illinois, will
pay the bearer forty dollars on the 1st of January, 1882, at the
agency of her State treasurer in the city of New York, it being
six month's interest on bond No. 6.
" GROVE P.

LAWRENCE,

"Spervisor of said Townskip."
On the back of every bond was the following indorsement:
".AuDITOR'S

-

OFFICE, ILLINOIS,

June 28th, 1873.
"I, Charles E. Lippincott, auditor of public accounts of the State
of Illinois, do hereby certify that the within bond has been registered in this office this day, pursuant to the provisions of an act
entitled 'An Act to fund and provide for'paying the railroad debts
of counties, townships, cities, and towns,' in force April 16, 1869.
"In testimony whereof I have hereunto subscribed my name and
affixed the seal of my office the day and year aforesaid.
"C. E. LIPPINCOTT, Auditor, P. A."
[SEAL.]
"1SPRINGFIELD,

The act referred to in this certificate provided that certain
taxes, therein specified, should be applied to the payment of
the principal and interest of bonds registered in the office of

Oct. 1882.]

PANA V. BOWLER.

the auditor of public accounts, and that no bonds should be
so registered until the railroad, in aid of which the bonds had
been issued, should have been completed near to or in the
township issuing the bonds, and unless the subscription or
donation creating the debt to pay which the bonds were issued
had been first submitted to an election of the legal voters of
said township under the provision of the laws of the State, and
a majority of the legal voters living in such township had been
in favor of such aid, subscription, or donation. And it was
made the duty of the supervisor of the township, upon the completion of'the railroad near to or through the township by
which the bonds were issued, to certify under oath to the State
auditor that all the preliminary conditions required by the act
to be done to authorize the registration of the bonds and to
entitle them to the benefits of the act had been complied with.
See Hurd's Revised Statutes, 1880, p. 807, sect. 17.
The record in this case showed that the certificate above
mentioned in reference to the issue of the bonds in question
had been made by Grove P. Lawrence, the supervisor of Pana
Township, and transmitted by him to the auditor of public
accounts.
The interest on said issue of %100,000 of bonds was levied
and collected and paid for three years by the State treasurer
as provided by law.
It further appeared that in the year 1876 the town of Pana
and three taxpayers filed, in behalf of themselves and all other
taxpayers of the town, a bill in the Circuit Court of Christian
County against the auditor of public accounts of the State of
Illinois, the treasurer of the State of Illinois, the treasurer and
the clerk of Christian County, Illinois, the town collector of
the town of Pana, and H. N. Schuyler, William E. Hayward,
John Vedder, and William Houston, and "the unknown holders and owners of said bonds and coupons issued by the town
of Pana," as defendants, in which the complainants prayed that
said public officers might be perpetually enjoined from levying
a tax with which to pay said bonds and coupons, and that said
bonds might be declared void, and that said holders and owners
of said bonds might be perpetually enjoined from selling or
negotiating or suing upon said bonds or the coupons attached

PANA v. BOWLER.

[Sup. Ct.

to them, or pretending or insisting in any court of law or
equity or elsewhere, in any manner whatsoever, that said town
was liable upon said bonds or coupons.
The parties made defendant by name were "either served
with process, or they voluntarily appeared in the case. It was
assumed that "the unknown holders and owners of said bonds
and coupons issued by the town of Pana" were brought in by
publication of a notice to them under that designation in a
newspaper, according to the laws of the State of Illinois. The
Circuit Court of Christian County dismissed the bill, but the
appellate court, upon appeal, reversed its decree and directed
it to grant the prayer of the bill; and the decree of the appellate court was affirmed by the Supreme Court, to which the
case was carried by the defendants. Afterwards, at its November Term, 1879, to wit, on December 17, the Circuit Court,
upon receiving the mandate of the appellate court and of the
Supreme Court, entered a decree in favor of the complainants,
in accordance with the prayer of the bill.
The coupons offered in evidence being those upon which the
suit was brought, were, at the time of the trial and before
the commencement of the suit, held and owned by the plaintiffs, who were citizens of the State of Maine.
Such were the material facts of the case. The town of Pana,
by its assignments of error, insists: 1. That there was no authority in the charter of the Springfield and Illinois Southeastern Railway Company to hold an
election and issue bonds to the amount of $100,000.
2. That the election held on April 30, 1870, was illegal and
void, because it was presided over by a moderator and not by
the supervisor, assessor, and collector, as required of general
elections by the law of the State, and, therefore, conferred no
authority upon the supervisor and town clerk to issue said
bonds and coupons.
8. That it was incumbent on the plaintiffs below, the
bonds having been illegally issued, to prove that they were
bona fide holders of the coupons for value, which they failed
to do.
4. That no judgment could be rendered for the plaintiffs on
said coupons after they and the bonds to which they belonged

Oct. 1882.]

PANA v. BOWLER.

had been declared void by the decree of the Circuit Court of
Christian County.
5. That in any event the judgment was too large by
$572.22.
Mr. William J. Henry for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. George A. Sanders for the defendant in error.
MR. JusTI E WOODS delivered the opinion of the court, and,
after making the foregoing statement, proceeded as follows: The people of the township of Pana voted almost unanimously for the donation to pay which the bonds in this case
were issued. There is no pretence of any fraud in their issue.
It is not disputed that the railroad company complied on its
part with all the conditions upon which they were to be issued,
or that the township has received all for which it bargained in
consideration of the issue of them. They were registered in
the office of the auditor of public accounts, where they could
not be lawfully registered unless the election authorizing the
donation for which they were issued had been held in pursuance of the statute, and the sworn certificate of the supervisor
of the township to that effect had been filed with the auditor.
The township has paid the interest on them for three years.
Under these circumstances, if they and the coupons thereto
attached are in the hands of bona fide holders for value, the
defences through which the township can escape liability will
be reduced to narrow limits.
The charter of the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company
declared that any town in any county under township organization might donate to the company any amount not to exceed
$30,000. The question is raised by the first assignment of
error whether this limit was removed by the amendatory act of
Feb. 24, .1869. We think that it was.
Section 10 of the act last named is an entire reviiion of sections 9 and 10 of the original charter of the company. The
original charter authorized townships only to make donations
to the railroad company, and it required that the railroad, or
some part of it or its branches, should be completed before the
donation was paid. It did not authorize the issue of bonds to
pay the donations, but required the assessment and collection

PANA v. BOWLER.

[Sup. Ct.

of a tax upon all the taxable property of the town for that
purpose.
The amendatory act authorized not only townships, but also
villages, cities, and counties along the route of the railroad to
make donations to the company. It prescribed an entirely
different condition precedent to the making of a donation, and
required the issue of bonds to pay the donation when made,
and it did not require the completion of the railroad, or any
part of it, before the bonds were issued. It did not limit the
amount which might be donated to $30,000, but declared that
if a majority of the votes cast at the election provided for by
the act should be in favor of donation, the corporate authorities of the village, city, county, or township, as the case might
be, should donate to the company the amount so voted at said
election, and issue bonds in paymeht thereof. It thus appears
that sect. 10 of the amendatory act covered the entire subject embraced by sects. 9 and 10 of the original act. It related
to the same railroad company; it prescribed different methods
of procedure in reference to the same subject, and embraced
entirely new provisions, thus plainly showing that it was
intended as a substitute, pro tanto, for the original act. Sect.
10 of the amendatory act therefore operated as a repeal, by
implication of sects. 9 and 10 of the original act, and removed
the restriction limiting to $30,000 the amount which could be
donated by a township to the railroad company. United States
v. Tynen, 11 Wall. 88; Henderson's Tobacco, id. 652; Murdock v. City of Memphis, 20 id. 590; King v. Cornell, 106
U. S. 395.
The next question raised by the assignments of error relates
to the power of the township of Pana, under the circumstances
of this case, to issue the bonds in question. This court decided,
in Harter v. Kernochan, 103 id. 562, that bonds issued by
the township of Harter, dated April 1, 1880, signed by the
supervisor and countersigned by the clerk of the township,
reciting that they were issued in pursuance of the acts of Feb.
25, 1867, and Feb. 24, 1869, which are the acts relied on in
this case, and in pursuance of an election of the legal voters of
the township held Nov. 10, 1868, were valid obligations of the
township.

Oct. 1882.]

PANA v. BOWLER.

The power of the township of Pana, under the same acts, to
issue bonds to pay its donation to the same railroad company
is, therefore, settled beyond dispute, unless what the plaintiff
in error insists was a defect in the method of conducting the
election by which the, donation was voted is fatal to the
authority of the officers of the township to issue the bonds.
This defect was that the election was presided over and the returns made, not by the supervisor, assessor, and collector of the
township, ex officio judges of elections, but by a moderator
chosen by the electors present.
It is insisted by the plaintiff in error that as the Constitution
of Illinois, adopted July 2, 1870, by its second additional section cut off the power of any township or other municipality to
subscribe to the capital stock of, or make a donation to, any
railroad company, except when such subscription or donation
had been authorized under existing laws, by a vote of the people of the municipality prior to the adoption of the Constitution, and as, by reason of the defect just mentioned, there was
no legal election, it follows that there was no authority in the
officers of the township of Pana to make the donation or issue
the bonds in question in this case, and that the bonds are
not binding on the township. We cannot assent to this conclusion.
It is clear that this case in no wise differs from other cases
where the holding of an election and a vote of the people in
favor of an issue of bonds is made by law a condition precedent
upon which the authority to issue bonds rests.
The bonds in question in this case recite on their face that
they were issued by the township, in compliance with the vote
of the legal voters thereof at an election held on April 80,
1870, under and by virtue of the authority conferred by acts
of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois, specifying the
acts of Feb. 26, 1867, and Feb. 24, 1869, above mentioned.
This court has again and again decided that if a municipal
body has lawful power to issue bonds or other negotiable securities, dependent only upon the adoption of certain preliminary
proceedings, such as a popular election of the constituent body,
the holder in good faith has the right to assume that such preliminary proceedings have taken place if the fact be certified

PANA

v.

BOWLER.

[Sup. Or.

on the face of the bonds by the authorities whose primary duty
it is to ascertain it. Lynde v. The County, 16 Wall. 6; Town
of coloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484; Commissioners v. January, 94
id. 202; Commissioners v. Bolles, id. 104; County of. Warren
v. Marcy, 97 id. 96.
The authority to issue the bonds in question in this case,
resting upon the fact that an election was held in pursuance of
law before a certain date, namely, the date when the Constitution of 1870 was adopted, and the bonds reciting on their face
the fact that the election was so held before the date mentioned, the circumstance that the election was irregularly conducted can be of no avail as a defence to the bonds in a suit
brought by a bona fide holder.
Our attention has been called to the decision of the Supreme
Court of Illinois in the case heretofore mentioned and reported
as Lippincott v. Town of Pana, 92 Ill. 24, in which it was held
that the election relied on in this case as the authority for the
issue of the bonds was absolutely void, and the issue of them
was, therefore, without authority. Our attention is also called
to People v. Town of 8anta Anna, 67 id. 57, and People v.
Town of Laenna, id. 65, where similar elections under a like
statute were held void. These last two cases were decided
before the bonds in this case were issued. They were, however, suits brought to restrain the issue of bonds by the township officers, on account of the irregularities in the election.
The rights of bona fide holders could not, therefore, arise, and
were not passed on in those cases. But in the case first mentioned the bonds had been issued, and were presumptively in
the hands of bona fide holders. Nevertheless, the Supreme
Court of Illinois held the bonds to be void in whosesoever
hands they might be.
It is insisted that this court is bound to follow this decision
of the Supreme Court of Illinois and hold the bonds in question void. We do not so understand our duty. Where the
construction of a State constitution or law has become settled
by the decision of the State courts, the courts of the United
States will, as a general rule, accept it as evidence of what the
local law is. Thus, we may be required to yield against our
own judgment to the proposition that, under the charter of the

Oct. 1882.]

PANA v. BoWLER.

railway company, the election in this case, which was held
under the supervision of a moderator chosen by the electors
present, was irregular and therefore void. But we are not bound
to accept the inference drawn by the Supreme Court of Illinois, that in consequence of such irregularity in the election
the bonds issued in pursuance of it by the officers of the township, which recite on their face that the election was held in
accordance with the statute, are void in the hands of bona fide
holders. This latter proposition is one which falls among the
general principles and doctrines of commercial jurisprudence,
upon which it is our duty to form an independent judgment,
and in respect of which we are under no obligation to follow'
implicitly the conclusions of any other court, however learned
or able it may be. Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1; Russell v.
Southard, 12 How. 139; Watson v. Tarpley, 18 id. 517; Butz
v. City of Mfuscatine, 8 Wall. 575; Boyce v. Tabb, 18 id. 546 ;
Oates v. National Bank, 100 U. S. 239; Railroad Company v.
National Bank, 102 id. 14. See also Burgess v. Seligman, ante,
p. 20, where the question, how far the courts of the United
States are bound by the decisions of the State courts, is carefully re-examined, and the rule on the subject stated with
precision.
We cannot follow the decision of the Supreme Court-of Illinois in Lippincott v. Town of Pana,ubi supra, without overruling a uniform current of the decisions of this court, beginning
with Commissioners of Knox County v. Aspinwall, 21 How.
539, and continuing down to the present time. The rights of
the bona fide holder of negotiable municipal bonds, as we have
stated them in this opinion, are too firmly settled by the decisions of this court to be shaken.
Our conclusion is, therefore, that the bonds in question in
this case are valid in the hands of a bona fide holder, notwithstanding the irregularity in the conduct of the election by
which they were claimed to be authorized.
The next question presented by the assignments of error is,
Does the irregularity in the conduct of the election throw on
the plaintiffs the burden of proving that they are holders for
value ?
It is a general rule that when the holder of a negotiable in-

PANA

v. BOWLER.[

[Sup. Ct.

strument, regular on its face and payable to bearer, produces
it in a suit to recover its contents, and the same has been received in evidence, there is a prima facie presumption that he
became the holder of it, for value at its date, in the usual course
of business. Mlfurray v. Lardner, 2 Wall. 110; Bank of Pittsburgh v. Neal, 22 How. 96; Collins v. Gilbert, 94 U. S. 753;
Brown v. Spofford, 95 id. 474. And municipal bonds, payable
to bearer, axe subject to the same rules as other negotiable
paper. Cromwell v. Sac County, 96 id. 51.
But the plaintiff in error insists that this case falls within an
exception to that rule, and cites to sustain his position Smith v.
Sac County, 11 Wall. 139, and Stewart v. Lansing, 104 U. S.
505. The exception relied on by the plaintiff in error is well
settled, and is this: if, in a suit brought by the indorsee or
transferee of a negotiable instrument, the maker or acceptor, or
any party who is primarily bound by the original consideration,
proves that there was fraud or illegality in the inception of the
instrument, the burden of proof is thrown on the plaintiff to
show that he is a holder for value. Smith v. Sac County and
Stewart v. Lansing, ubi supra; Commissioners v. Clark, 94
U. S. 278; Collins v. Gilbert, id. 753; Fitch v. Jones, 5 El. &
Bl. 238; Smith v. Braine, 16 Ad. & E. NT.S. 244; Hall v.
_eatherstone, 3 Hurls. & Nor. 284; Bailey v. Bidwell, 13 Mee.
& W. 73 ; Trathir v. Zane, 6 Gratt. (Va.) 246; Hutchinson v.
Boggs, 28 Pa. St. 294; Perrin v. Noyes, 39 Me. 384; Cottle v.
Cleaves, 70 id, 256; Sistermans v. Field, 9 Gray (Mass.), 331;
Woodhull v. Holmes, 10 Johns. (N. Y.) 231; Boss v. Drinkard's
Adm., 35 Ala. 43 4 ; Harbison v. Bank of the State of Indiana,
28 Ind. 133; Fuller v. Hutchings, 10 Cal. 523 ; Bedington v.
Woods, 45 id. 406; Conley v. Winsor, 41 Mich. 253 ; Sloan v.
Union Banking Company, 67 Pa. St. 470; Holme v. KEarsper,
5 Binn. (Pa.) 469; Fallett v. Parker, 6 Wend. (N. Y.) 615;
Munroe v. Cooper, 5 Pick. (Mass.) 412; 1 Daniel on Neg. Ins.
(3d ed.), sect. 815.
In most of the cases above cited the defence relied on was
fraud in the inception of the instrument. Thus, in Smith v.
Sac County, 11 Wall. 139, the report shows that the bonds
were issued to a contractor to pay for the building of a courthouse; that the county judge who executed and delivered

Oct. 1882.]

PANA v. BOWLER.

them was bribed to do so; and that the court-house never was
built.
In Stewart v. Eansing, 104 U. S. 505, the county judge, assuming to act under authority of a law of the State, rendered,
a judgment appointing commissioners to execute bonds of the
town of Lansing. This judgment was carried by certiorarito
the Supreme Court, and there reversed. The county judge,
the commissioners, and the railroad company to which the
bonds were ordered to be issued, all had notice of the certiorari
and the subsequent proceedings under it. Before the judgment of reversal, however, the commissioners, notwithstanding
the pendency of the writ, issued the bonds in suit in the case,
taking from the company an obligation for their personal indemnity. This court held that as between the company and
the town the judgment of reversal was equivalent to a refusal
by the county judge to make the original order, and invalidated
the bonds.
There is no pretence of any fraud in the inception of the
bonds in question in this case. It is not denied that they were
issued in good faith and for a valuable consideration. The
question, then, arises, Is the irregularity in the conduct of the
election such an illegality as throws on the plaintiff the burden
to show that he paid value for the coupons? We are clearly
of opinion that it is not.
It will appear from an examination of the cases above cited,
in which the defence was illegality in the inception of the
instrument, that the illegality which shifts the burden of proof
on the bolder to prove that he paid value must be something
which relates to the consideration of the paper sued on. It
must appear that the consideration arose out of a transaction contrary to law, or against public policy. Thus, in Sistermoans v. Field, 9 Gray (Mass.), 331, the illegality which the
court held threw the burden on the plaintiff of proving that he
gave value for the notes sued on, was the fact alleged by the
defendant that they were given in payment for intoxicating
liquors sold by the payee of the notes to the defendant in violation of law. Precisely the same illegality was held in Cottle v.
Cleaves, 70 Me. 256, to throw upon the plaintiff, who was indorsee, the burden of showing that he paid value for the note.

PANA

v.

BOWLER.

[Sup. Ct.

So in Fuller v. Hfutchings, 10 Cal. 523, the paper sued on
was given for losses at a public banking game called "faro."
Gaming was prohibited by statute. It was declared by the
laws of California to be a felony in the keeper-of the game, and
a misdemeanor in the player. In this case the court held that
the illegal consideration being admitted, it devolved upon the
plaintiff to show that he took the paper without notice and for
value.
In the case of Bailey v. Bidwell, 13 Mee. & W. 73, it was
alleged, as matter of defence, that the consideration for the
note sued on was an agreement that the payee should not oppose a petition in bankruptcy filed by the defendant, the maker
of the note, and that the note was indorsed to the plaintiff
without value. The court, by Baron Parke, held the rule to be
that if the note was proven to have been obtained by fraud, or
affected by illegality, that afforded a presumption that the
person who had been guilty of the illegality would dispose of
it, and place it in the hands of another person to sue on it, and
that such proof casts upon the plaintiff the burden of showing
that he was a bona fide indorsee for value.
In .Fitch v. Jones, 5 El. & Bl. 238, the note which was sued
on by an indorsee was given for a wager on the hop duty.
This, the court said, was not within the statute of Anne or any
other statutes which prohibit wagers. There was no penalty
imposed for such a wager, and, therefore, as between the
maker and payee, there was no illegality or violation of law,
but it was a mere nudum pactum. And the court held that
the defendant was bound to prove his plea by showing that
the plaintiff did not give value for the note.
The authorities illustrate the rule and show that it does not
apply to this case. There was no illegality whatever in the
consideration of the bonds in question in this suit. The mere
irregularity in the conduct of the election was not such an
illegality as is contemplated by the rule, and does not deprive
the holder of the coupons of the presumption that he acquired
them for value.
The next contention of the plaintiff in error is that the decree of the Circuit Court of Christian County, Illinois, by which
the bonds in question were declared void, is binding on the

Oct. 1882.]

PANA V. BOWLER.

plaintiffs in this case, and is a bar to the action upon the
coupons sued on.
The plaintiffs in this case are citizens of the State of Maine.
It is sought to bind them by a decree rendered in a proceeding
purely in personam in a case in which they were not named as
parties, when there was no personal service upon or appearance
by them, and when the only pretence of notice to them of the
pendency of the suit was a publication addressed to the "unknown holders and owners of bonds and coupons issued by the
town of Pana."
It is contended that, under the statutes of Illinois, parties
may be thus brought in and a valid personal decree rendered
against them. Whatever may be the effect of such a decree
upon citizens of the State of Illinois, this court has held that,
as to non-residents, it is absolutely void. Cooper v. .ey/nolds,
10 Wall. 308; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714; Brookly/n v.
Inurance Company, 99 id. 362; Empire v. -Darlington,101
id. 87.
In a case decided at the present term it was declared by this
court, speaking by Mr. Justice Field, that "the courts of the
United States only regard judgments of the State courts establishing personal demands as having validity or importing verity
when they have been rendered upon personal citation of the
St. Clair v. Cox,
party or upon his voluntary appearance."
106 id. 350, 353.
These authorities settle the rule which is conclusive of this
question. It would be a reproach to jurisprudence if the rights
of citizens of Maine to recover the contents of a chose in action,
held and owned by them, could be cut off by a suit in Illinois
to which they were not made parties by name, and in which
there was no personal service or appearance.
It is insisted by counsel for the plaintiff in error that the
decree of the State court recites the fact that the persons made
defendants under the designation of "the unknown holders
and owners of bonds and coupons issued by the town of Pana,"
which includes the defendants in error, appeared in that court,
and that they are, therefore, concluded by the decree in the
case.
There is no pretence that there was any appearance in fact
VOL. XVII.

85

MYERS V. SWANN.

[Sup. Ct.

of the parties referred to. It is sought to conclude them by a
loose expression in the decree, which, in our opinion, was clearly
not intended to recite their appearance, and is not fairly open
to such a construction.
Lastly, it is assigned for error that, in computing the amount
due upon the coupons described in the declaration, the court
allowed seven per cent interest, the legal rate in New York,
where the coupons were payable, instead of six per cent, the
legal rate in Illinois, where they were made. There was no
error in this. The coupons, after their maturity, bore interest
at the rate fixed by the law of the place where they were payable. Gelpeke v. City of Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175. What we
have said covers all the assignments of error. We find no
error in the record.
Judqment affirmed.

MYERS v. SwANN.
The Circuit Court cannot take jurisdiction of a suit removed from a State
court under the third subdivision of sect. 639 of the Revised Statutes, on
account of "prejudice or local influence," unless all the necessary parties on
one side of the suit are citizens of different States from those on the other.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of North Carolina.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Thomas T. Crittenden and Mr. Franklin H. lackey for
the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Samuel P. Phillips for the defendant in error.
MR. CmnEF JuSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a writ of error brought under the act of March 3,
1875, c. 137, to reverse an order of the Circuit Court remanding a cause removed from a State court under the third subdivision of sect. 639 of the Revised Statutes, on account of
,,prejudice or local influence." At the time the application
for removal was made in the State court, the suit was being

