Oct. 1882.]

MILLS COUNTY V. RAILROAD COMPANIES.

557

MILLS COUNTY v. RAILROAD COMPANIES.
1. The swamp and overflowed lands granted by the act of Sept. 28, 1850, c. 84,
are subject to the disposal of the States wherein they respectively lie, and
no party other than the United States can question such disposal or enforce
the conditions of the grant.
2. The proviso to the second section of the act, that the proceeds of the lands
shall be applied exclusively, as far as necessary, to the purpose of reclaiming the same by levees and drains, imposed an obligation, which rests
upon the good faith of the States. No trust was thereby attached to the
lands, nnd the title to them, which is derived from either of the States, is
not affected by the manner in which she performed that obligation.
3. The State of Iowa having granted its swamp and overflowed lands to the
counties respectively in which they are situate, Mills County, insisting that
certain lands were of this character, made claim thereto. The Burlington
and Missouri River Railroad Company claimed them under the act of MIay
15, 1850, c. 28. These conflicting claims gave rise to a suit between the
parties, which was decided by the State courts in favor of the county. A
writ of error was thereupon brought; and, whilst it was pending here, a
compromise was entered into by which the county was to make certain
conveyances to the company, and to pay it the sum of .$10,000 for lands
previously disposed of. Conveyances were executed accordingly. Afterwards, the county instituted suit to have the compromise declared void,
and the company sued for the .510,000. The State courts having sustained
the compromise, and decided against the county in both suits, writs of
error were brought here. Held, 1. That the county cannot set up that the
lands were disposed of contrary to the provisions of the said act of 1850.
2. That although, after the compromise was made, the writ then pending
was submitted to this court, and decided in favor of the county, yet that
this did not abrogate the compromise, as the parties continued to act
under it; and that the decision of the State court in the present cases is
not repugnant to, nor in disaffirmance of, the opinion and judgment of this
court.

ErRori to the Supreme Court of the State of Iowa.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

,Solomon for the
Xr. Charles B. Lawrence and HMi. AD. S)
plaintiff in error.
H. Wilson for
X'. Samuel Shellabarger and Ifr. Jeremiah&
the defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases were consolidated and heard together in the
State courts, both relating to the same subject-matter; viz., the
fR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

558

MILLS COUNTY v. RAILROAD COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

validity of a compromise agreement made on the 27th of October, 1868, between Mills County, in the State of Iowa, and
the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company, in
reference to certain lands lying in said county, claimed by
the county as swamp and overflowed lands, and claimed by the
railroad company as railroad-grant lands. The claim of the
county was based on the act of Congress of Sept. 28, 1850,
c. 84, entitled "An Act to enable the State of Arkansas
and other States to reclaim the swamp lands within their
limits;" and an act of the General Assembly of the State of
Iowa, entitled "An Act to dispose of the swamp and overflowed lands in the State of Iowa, and to pay the expenses
of selecting and surveying the same," approved Jan. 13,
1858; and other acts of the General Assembly of said State.
The claim of the railroad company was based upon the act
of Congress of May 15, 1856, c. 28, granting to the State
of Iowa certain lands for the purpose of. aiding the building of a railroad from Burlington, Iowa, to a point on the
Missouri River at or near the mouth of Platte River in
Nebraska.
The act of Congress first referred to declares, in effect,
that to enable the State of Iowa to construct the necessary
levees and drains to reclaim the swamp and overflowed lands
therein, the whole of those swamp and overflowed lands, made
unfit thereby for cultivation, which shall remain unsold at the
passage of the act, shall be, and the same are hereby, granted
to said State.
And, after providing for listing and patenting the lands, it
was, by sect. 2, enacted that the fee-simple to said lands shall
vest in the- State of Iowa, subject to the disposal of the legislature thereof: "Provided, however, that the proceeds of said
lands, whether from sale or direct appropriation in kind, shall
be applied exclusively, as far as necessary, to the purpose of
reclaiming said lands, by means of the levees and drains
aforesaid."
The General Assembly of Iowa, by an act passed Jan. 13,
1853, declared "that all swamp and overflowed lands granted
to the State of Iowa by the act of Congress (September 28,
1850) be, and the same are hereby, granted to the counties

Oct. 1882.]

MILLS COUNTY

v.

RAILROAD

COMPANIES.

559

respectively in which the same may lie or be situated, for the
purpose of constructing the necessary levees and drains to reclaim the same; and the balance of said lands, if any there be,
after the same are reclaimed as aforesaid, shall be applied to
the building of roads and bridges, when necessary, through or
across said lands, and if not needed for this purpose, to be
expended in building roads and bridges within the county."
On the 22d of March, 1858, the General Assembly passed
another act, containing, amongst others, the following provisions :-

1. "Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Iowa,
That it. shall be competent and lawful for the counties owning
swamp and overflowed lands to devote the same, or the proceeds
thereof, either in whole or in part, to the erection of public buildings for the purpose of education, the building of bridges, roads,
and highways; for building institutions of learning, or for making
railroads through the county or counties to whom such lands belong: Provided, that before any of said land, or the proceeds
thereof, shall be so devoted to any of the purposes aforesaid, the
question whether the same shall be so done shall be submitted, at
some general or special election, to the people of the county.
2. "The proper officer or officers of any county may contract
with any person or company for the transfer and conveyance of
said swamp or overilowed lands, or the proceeds thereof, or otherwise appropriate the same to such person or company, or to their
use, for the purpose of aiding or carrying out any of the objects
mentioned in the first section of this act, which said contract shall
be reduced to writing and signed by the respective parties or their
lawful authorized agents."
Another section prescribed the mode in which elections
should be called and held, and without which any contract
should be void, and concluded with the following proviso:
"Provided, that no sale, contract, or other disposition of said
swamp or overflowed lands shall be valid, unless the person or
company to whom the same are sold, contracted, or otherwise
disposed of, shall take the same subject to all the provisions of
the acts of Congress of September 28, 1850, and shall expressly
release the State of Iowa and the county in which the lands
are situated, from all liability for reclaiming said land."

560

MILLS COUNTY V. RAILROAD COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

The Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company was
incorporated under the laws of the State of Iowa, Jan. 28, 1852,
for the purpose of constructing a railroad from Burlington to
the most eligible 'point on the Missouri River. The act of
Congress of May 15, 1856, c. 28, under which the company.
claimed the lands, granted to the State of Iowa, for the
purpose of aiding in the construction of railroads "from Burlington, on the Mississippi River, to a point on the Missouri
River, near the mouth of the Platte River," &c., " every
alternate section of land, designated by odd numbers, for six
sections in width on each side of said roads;" but it was
provided that if any sections should be sold, or become subject to pre-emption, before the lines of the roads shbuld be
definitely fixed, other lands might be selected in lieu thereof,
nearest to the tiers designated, but not to exceed fifteen miles
from the lines of the roads. It was further provided, that
the lands thus granted to the State should be subject to the
disposal of the legislature thereof, for the purpose aforesaid,
and no other.
The General Assembly of Iowa, by an act dated June 3,
1856, accepted this grant, and enacted (sect. 2) "that so much
of the lands, interest, rights, powers, and privileges as are or
may be granted and conferred, in pursuance of the act of Congress aforesaid, to aid in the construction of a railroad from
Burlington, on the Mississippi River, to a point on the Missouri, near the mouth of Platte River, are hereby disposed of,
granted, and conferred upon the Burlington and Missouri River
Railroad Company, a body corporate, created and existing
under the laws of the State of Iowa."
The acts and clauses of acts referred to are sufficient to show
the general nature of the litigation which sprang up between
the parties now before the court.
The railroad company having claimed the right to appropriate certain of the lands in Mills County, which the county
authorities claimed to be swamp and overflowed lands, the
county, in December, 1863, commenced a suit in chancery
against the railroad company to establish its title to the lands
in question between them. The county court and the Supreme Court of the State decided in favor of the county, and

Oct. 1882.]

MILLS COUNTY v. RAILROAD COMPANIES.

561

the railroad company brought the case to this court by writ of
error, where it was pending when the compromise agreement
in question was entered into. That agreement consisted of a
proposition made by the county authorities to the railroad com"pany, which was accepted by the latter. The following is a
copy of the papers which passed between them:
-.

Propositionof the County.
,Inorder to settle and finally adjust the lawsuit now pending in
the Supreme Court of the United States, wherein Mills County, in
the State of Iowa, is plaintiff, and the Burlington and Missouri
River Railroad Company is defendant, and secure the completion
of said road through Mills County, via Glenwood, in said county,
we, the undersigned, agents of said county, submit the following
proposition to the board of directors of said railroad company, to
wit:"There are in dispute between the parties to the said lawsuit
twenty-three thousand three hundred and sixteen acres. For the
purpose of having our proposition understood, we acknowledge
that we owe you acres of land to the amount of 23,316; to pay
which we have and offer you odd sections, vacant (most of which is
a part of the 23,316 acres), and even sections patented to the county
and unsold, in the aggregate 9,080 acres; balance of the land due
you, 14,236 acres. For further payment we have and offer to you
of the odd sections (about all of which is of the 23,316 claimed
by you), subject to pre-emption made through the county, acres
to the amount of (on which nothing has been paid to the county)
4,660. Of these pre-empted lands we estimate that about one-half
of the pre-emptions are fraudulent, and ought not to be recognized,
but the county must ask that where bona fide improvements have
been made on the same, the pre-emptors must be secured in their
right to the same, and have the privilege of purchasing at $1.25 per
acre of the county or company, which amount shall, in any event,
go to the.railroad company. Now you will have land for land, subject only to the pre-emptor's claims, until there will be due you in
acres 9,576.
"The remainder, 9,576 acres, belong to bona fide settlers and
purchasers, who, we must insist, shall be protected by the county.
And as we have paid you all the land we have, we offer you for
this balance ten thousand dollars in money.
"The company should understand that the balance of 9,576 acres
VOL. XVI.

36

562

MILLS COUNTY v. RATLROAD COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

is the land, portions of which it has been settling with our individual citizens for, and there is included in the 9,576 acres all the
lands the company has sold to citizen settlers at $1.25 per acre.
With this understanding, the $10,000 balance we offer you will be
just as much less than 9,576 acres as the company has thus sold,
and, therefbr.e, our pay would perhaps amount to $1.50 or more.
"It is understood that the said suit now pending shall be continued, by agreement of the parties, from term to term, until the conditions of this contract or proposition shall be complied with.
"It is also further understood that the foregoing proposition shall
not be binding on the county of Mills, unless said railroad company
shall complete said railroad through Mills County via Glenwood
and build a depot at Glenwood, in said county, and in case said
railroad company shall fail or neglect to build said railroad through
MNills County via Glenwood, and also to build and establish a depot
at Glenwood, in said county, then, and in that event, the said lawsuit shall stand for final hearing in the Supreme Court of the United
States, the same as if this proposition had never been made. In
case the suit shall be settled on the basis of this proposition, each
party shall pay their own costs. The manner of transferring the
land, whether the county shall deal with the purchasers and preemptors, or whether the railroad company under the restrictions
indicated, the county is not particular about, but will agree to
what may seem most practicable.
"The amount in acres, as stated above, may not be exactly correct,
and probably is not, but it is believed to be nearly so; but we wish
it understood that the company shall have all the swamp lands the
county now hold or are entitled to in Mills County, Iowa, subject
only to the conditions indicated in the foregoing. Witness our
hands this July 13, 1868. (Signed) Win. Hale; E. C. Bosbyshell;
D. H. Solomon; L. W. Tubbs: majority of the committee."
Acceptance.
"BnLIrGTON, IowA, October 27, 1868.
"This proposition is hereby accepted, and the terms and stipulations and conditions are agreed to by the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company. (Signed) Burlington and Missouri
River Railroad Company: By C. E. Perkins, Supt."
This proposition and acceptance being reported by the committee to the board of supervisors of Mills County, the said
board passed the following resolution: -

Oct. 1882.]

MILLS COUNTY V. RAILROAD COMPANIES.

563

"After giving the report due consideration, it is resolved by the
board of supervisors of Mills County, Iowa, at their regular session in November, 1868, that the proposition submitted to the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Co., by our special railroad
committee, and the acceptance of the same by the said company
be, and the same is hereby, confirmed and ratified, and that the
same be spread upon the records of this board.
"The ayes and nays being called for, the vote stands as follows :"Ayes - Allis, Forrester, Haynie, Lamb, Utterback, Wing,
Ward, Russell, Summers, and Mr. Chairman. Nays- None2'
Several deeds of conveyance were executed by the board of
supervisors of Mills County to the company in the years'1869,
1870, and 1871, in pursuance of this compromise agreement,
conveying altogether 13 , 7 2 0-jf acres of land.
The suit of Mills County (one of the consolidated suits now
before us) was brought in January, 1874, against that company,
and others, in the Mills County District Court, by petition
seeking to have the said compromise agreement and the said
deeds of conveyance declared void, on the ground that the said
agreement was not authorized by a vote of the people of the
county, but was obtained by fraud; that it involved a diversion
of a trust fund, and a surrender by agents of the whole subjectmatter in controversy in a suit of their principal; that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa, in the original suit, was
duly affirmed by this court in February, 1870; and that, at an
election held in October, 1871, for affirming or disaffirming
said agreement, the people of Mills County disaffirmed the
same by a vote of 1,031 against 857.
The suit of the Chicago, Burlington, and Quincy Railroad
Company (successor to the Burlington and Missouri River
Railroad Company) against Mills County (the other of the
.consolidated suits now before us), was brought in May, 1875,
to recover the sum of $10,000, which by the said compromise
agreement was to be paid by Mills County to the Burlington
and Missouri River Railroad Company; and as the answer of
the county set up the matters alleged in the petition in the
other suit, the two suits were consolidated.
The Mills County District Court decided against the county

564

MILLS COUNTY v. RAILROAD COMPANIES.

[Sup. C.

in both suits, and the Supreme Court of Iowa affirmed the decrees of the District Court. The decrees of the Supreme Court
are brought here for review upon the allegation that they are
repugnant to the laws and authority of the United States.
The principal Federal question which a'rises in these cases
is, whether the compromise agreement made between Mills
County and the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company was in violation of the act of Congress by which the
swamp and overflowed lands in the State of Iowa were granted
to that State. It is alleged that this grant was made for a
special purpose, and upon express trust; viz., to be applied
exclusively, as far as necessary, to the purpose of -reclaiming
said lands by means of levees and drains, as declared in the
act of 1850. It is not our province, on these writs of error, to
inquire whether the compromise in question was or was not in
violation of the State laws. That question was for the State
court to determine; and it has been determined in the negative. Nor is it our province to inquire whether any fraud or
excess of authority was committed by the agents of the county
in making the compromise. That was also -a question for the
State court to determine; and it has been determined in the
negative. We are only to inquire whether the State laws
themselves, by virtue of which the said transaction was allowed
and sanctioned, was such a violation of the act of Congress as
to require a reversal of the decrees of the Supreme Court of
Iowa.
The statutes in question have already received some consideration at the hands of this court in the cases of Emigrant Comp any v. County of Wright, 97 U. S. 339, and Emigrant Company
v. County of Adams, 100 id. 61. Those cases came before us
'on appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa. In both of them, certain contracts for the
purchase of swamp and overflowed lands from the county authorities were assailed by charges of fraud, and as not being
in conformity with the statutes of Iowa; and those questions
were necessarily discussed. It was also contended that the
disposition of the lands operated as a diversion of the fund, in
violation of the original grant. In the first case, the contract
was declared to be void for actual fraud of the grossest char-

Oct. 1882.]

MILLS COUNTY V. RAILROAD COMPANIES.

565

acter; and the other questions were not fully considered. In
the latter case, this court did not consider the evidence of fraud
as sufficient to avoid the purchase; and this rendered it necessary to examine the question of repugnancy between the State
laws and the act of Congress with more care. On the first consideration of the case, we were disposed to think that the act
of assembly of the State of Iowa passed in 1858, by. which the
several counties owning swamp and overflowed lands were anthorized to devote the lands, or the proceeds thereof, either in
whole or in part, to the erection of public buildings for the purpose of education, the building of bridges, roads, and highways,
or for building institutions of learning, or for making railroads
through the county, was repugnant to the provisions of the
act of Congress, as authorizing a diversion of the fund from its
proper purposes; and that this repugnancy rendered such dispositions of the lands void. But, on a reconsideration of the
subject, we were inclined to modify our first impressions. The
following extract from the opinion then delivered will show
the final view which we took of the subject: "The argument
against the validity of the scheme [namely, that created by the
act of 1858] is, that it effects a diversion of the proceeds of the
lands from the objects and purposes of the congressional grant.
These were declared to be to enable the State to reclaim the
lands by means of levees and drains. The proviso of the second section of the act of Congress declared that the proceeds
of the lands, whether from sale or direct appropriation in kind,
should be applied exclusively, as far as necessary, to these purposes. This language implies that the State was to have full
power of disposition of the lands; and only gives direction as
to the application of the proceeds, and of this application only
'as far as necessary' to secure the objects specified. It is very
questionable whether the security for the application of the
proceeds thus pointed out does not rest upon the good faith of
the State, and whether the State may not exercise its discretion in that behalf without being liable to be called to account, and without affecting the titles to the lands disposed
of. At all events, it would seem that Congress alone has the
power to enforce the conditions of the grant, either by a revocation thereof, or other suitable action, in a clear case of viola-

i

MILLS COUNTY V. RAILROAD COMPANIES.

[Sup. Ct.

tion of the conditions. And as the application of the proceeds
to the named objects is only prescribed 'as far as necessary,'
room is left for the exercise by the State of a large discretion
as to the extent of the necessity." p. 69.
Upon further consideration of the whole subject, we are convinced that the suggestion then made, that the application of
the proceeds of these lands to the purposes of the grant rests
upon the good faith of the State, and that the State may exercise its discretion as to the disposal of them, is the only correct view. It is a matter between two sovereign powers, and
one which private parties cannot bring into discussion. Swamp
and overflowed lands are of little value to the government of
the United States, whose principal interest in them is to dispose of them for purposes of revenue; whereas the State governments, being concerned in their settlement and improvement,
in the opening up of roads and other public works through
them, in the promotion of the public health by systems of
drainage and embankment, are far more deeply interested in
having the disposal and management of them. For these
reasons, it was a wise measure on the part of Congress to cede
these lands to the States in which they lay, subject to the disposal of their respective legislatures ; and although it is specially
provided that the proceeds of such lands shall be applied, "as
far as necessary," to their reclamation by means of levees and
drains, this is a duty which was imposed upon and assumed by
the States alone, when they accepted the grant; and, whether
faithfully performed or not, is a question between the United
Sta'tes and the States, and is neither a trust following the lands
nor a duty which private parties can enforce as against the
State.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the act of Congress cannot be invoked by the county of Mills for the purpose of showing that its provisions have been violated by the State laws,
under which alone the county itself can set up any title to the
lands, and by virtue of which, as decided by the State court,
it has disposed of them for railroad purposes.
But it is contended that the decision of this court, rendered
in February, 1870, affirming the decree in the original suit,
and adjudging the title of the lands to be in Mills County, and

Oct. 1882.]

MILLS COUNTY v. RAILROAD COMPANIES.

567

not in the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company,
is rendered null and ineffective by the decrees of the Supreme
Court of Iowa in these cases, and hence that these decrees are
against the right of Hills County as established by authority
of the Supreme Court of the United States, and ought for that
cause to be reversed. We do not think that this result necessarily follows. The compromise agreement of 1868 was made
whilst the writ of error in that original suit was pending in
this court, and before the cause was heard. That compromise
settled the matters in difference between the parties. There
may have been reasons independent of the controversy relating
to the particular lands in question in that suit why it was desirable to have the legal questions involved therein settled by the
judgment of this court. The county of Mills and the railroad
company may have been respectively interested in other lands
similarly situated in respect to title as the lands involved in
that suit. But if this were not so, the result would only be tha
the litigation was continued here after the parties had adjusted
their rights by agreement, - an improper proceeding, undoubtedly, but one which would not abrogate or render null the
agreement itself, unless the parties voluntarily waived and
abandoned it. That they did not waive or abandon it is manifest from the fact that deeds-of conveyance were executed by
the county to the railroad company in pursuance of the compromise agreement after the decision of this court was rendered ; namely, one deed dated Sept. 6, 1870, for 3,560 acres,
and another deed dated June 19, 1871, for 240 acres.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the decrees made by
the Supreme Court of Iowa in these cases do not violate any
act of Congress, nor disaffirm the judgment of this court, nor
impair any right, title, or immunity which the county of Mills
has a right to claim under any authority of the United States.
The said decrees must, therefore, be
Affirmed.

