Oct. 1882.]

SCHELL V. COCHRAN.

SCHELL V. COCH.RAN.

COCHRAN V. SCHELL.
1. Where a collector of customs brings a writ of error to review a judgment
recovered against him for moneys exacted by and paid to him on entries,
this court will, if it affirms the judgment, allow interest on it, under
rule 23.
2. In such a case, the "final judgment," the amount whereof is payable under
sect. 989 of the Revised Statutes, is that rendered by the court below pursuant to the mandate of this court.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

The Solicitor-Generalfor Schell.
1fr. George Bliss, contra.
MR. JusTIcE BLATOHFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
These writs of error were brought to review a judgment
rendered by the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York, Oct. 14, 1882, nunc pro tunc
as of Oct. 7, 1882, in favor of Thomas Cochran and William
Barber, surviving partners of S. Cochran & Co., against Augustus Schell, late collector of customs, for the sum of $1,892.88,
composed of $1,734.80 damages and $158.03 costs. The damages were for excessive fees exacted at the custom-house on
entries, and the writ of error brought by Schell was brought
to review the judgment in respect to the recovery for such
fees. The writ of error brought by S. Cochran & Co. was
based on their failure to recover in the suit for duties paid
under protest. The writs of error were heard together at this
term and the judgment was affirmed, the recovery for the fees
and the failure to recover for the duties being both of them
sustained. The judgment of this court, as set forth in the
mandate, was rendered March 19, and covered both writs of
error, and directed that the judgment of the Circuit Court be
affirmed, "with interest until paid, at the same rate per annum
that similar judgments bear in the courts of the State of New
VOL. XVII.

40

SOHELL V. COCHRAN.

[Sup. Ct.

York." The mandate was sent to the court below on the 4th
of April, and now the Solicitor-General, representing the
United States, moves, on behalf of Schell, to correct the judgment and the mandate by striking out the direction as to
interest, so that the judgment rendered Oct. 14, 1882, shall not
carry interest up to the time a new judgment is rendered by
the court below on the mandate.
This application appears to be based on the construction
given to a decision made by the Circuit Court for the Southern
District of New York, in January, 1882, in White v. Arthur,
20 Blatchf. 237. That was a suit against a collector of customs to recover duties paid, in which the Circuit Court rendered a judgment for the plaintiffs, March 1,1881, for $2,295.90,
and where at the trial of the action the court bad made a certificate of probable cause, under sect. 989 of the Revised
Statutes. The judgment being presented for payment out of
the treasury, under that section, the amount of the face of it
-was paid, without any interest on it after its rendition. The
court being applied to by the attorney for the United States
to direct satisfaction of the judgment to be entered of record,
it was held that the government was not liable for any interest
on the amount of the judgment after its entry. This decision
was founded on a consideration of the statutory provisions on
the subject of the payment out of the treasury of the amount
of a judgment recovered against a collector of customs or other
officer of the revenue, for money paid to him and by him paid
into the treasury in the performance of his official duty, where
a certificate of probable cause is granted. The result reached
was that, under the language of sect. 8 of the act of June 14,
1878, c. 191, sect. 1 of the act of March 3, 1879, c. 183, sect.
1 of the act of June 16, 1880, c. 234, sect. 1 of the act of
March 3, 1881, c. 132, interest accruing after the entry of such
a judgment, on its amount, or on the money so paid to the
officer, is not to be paid by the government; and that, under
sect. 989, the officer is not personally liable for such interest.
This court has never made any decision on the points thus
ruled on in White v. Arthur. The case of Erskine v. Van
Arsdale, 15 Wall. 75, was a suit to recover back an internal
revenue tax illegally exacted. The court below had instructed

Oct. 1882.]

SCHELL V. COCHRAN.

the jury that they might, in their verdict, add interest to the
tax paid. This court held that instruction to be correct, but
the only decision was that interest might be added from the
time of the illegal exaction to the verdict. Nothing was
decided as to interest on the judgment when the government
should come to pay it. The interest included in the verdict is
put in before there is any certificate of probable cause, and, if
there is no such certificate, the government assumes no part of
the liability of the defendant.
In United States v. Sherman, 98 U. S. 565, all that was
decided was that there must be a certificate of probable cause,
under sect. 989, before the liability of the government to pay
a judgment against a revenue officer can attach, and that,
where a certificate of probable cause is made after the judgment is rendered, the government is not liable for the interest
which accrues on the .judgment before the making of the certificate. In that case the government had voluntarily paid the
interest which accrued after the making of the certificate.
It is provided by sect. 1010 of the Revised Statutes, that
"where, upon a writ of error, judgment is affirmed in the
Supreme Court, or a Circuit Court, the court shall adjudge to
the respondent in error just damages for his delay." Rule 23
of this court provides that where a judgment is affirmed on a
writ of error, "the interest shall be calculated and levied from
the date of the judgment below, until the same is paid, at the
same rate that similar judgments bear interest in the courts
of the State where such judgment is rendered." This statute
and rule, and the practice under them, followed in the mandate
in the present case, of allowing interest on the affirmance of a
judgment where a collector is plaintiff in error, were urged by
the counsel for the defendant in Wite v. Arthur, as showing
that in that case interest on the judgment should be paid; but
the court held that such practice could not affect the question
there raised, because the allowance of such interest belonged
solely to the putting the judgment in shape, as one in a private
suit.
The interest allowed in the present case, in the judgment of
this court, was allowed under rule 23, which, in its provisions
as to interest, is in harmony with sect. 966 of the Revised

SCHELL V. COCHRAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statutes, originally enacted as sect. 8 of the act of Aug. 23,
1842, c. 188. Such interest, for the time a writ of error is
pending, is really damages for delay. When the mandate of
this court goes to the court below, it is necessary that that
court, with a view to execution, should enter a further judgment in accordance with the mandate, covering the direction
of this court as to interest and as to costs in this court on the
writ of error. A writ of error in a case of this kind, being
brought by direction of a department of the government, operates as a supersedeas, under sects. 1000 and 1001 of the
Revised Statutes, without any bond to answer in damages
being given. The plaintiff in the judgment being stayed as to
execution while the case is in this court, and there being a
new judgment rendered by this court in the suit, "the final
judgment" referred to in sect. 989 is the judgment as it stands
after its affirmance by this court, and after the court below
has rendered such judgment as the mandate of this court
requires. Therefore, the interest allowed in this case is interest before final judgment, and is of the same character as the
interest allowed before judgment in a suit against a collector
where there is no writ of error. In both cases, when there is
a final judgment, the principle applies, declared by this court
in Brskine v. Van Arsdale, u6i supra, that it is to be presumed
the government is always ready and willing to pay its ordinary
debts. But, where there is a judgment and a certificate of
probable cause, and thus a case for payment out of the treasury under sect. 989, and then, by direction of the government,
a writ of error is taken which operates as a stay, interest on
the judgment during the stay ought to be allowed, and the
statutes not only do not forbid such allowance, but permit it.
The expression "interest and costs in judgment cases," in the
appropriation bills before referred to, clearly includes the
interest in the present case, it being interest before final
judgment.
Application denied.

