98

GREEN BAY, ETC. R.R. Co. v. UNION, ETC. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

GREEN BAY AND MINNESOTA RAILROAD ComPANY v.
UNION STEAMBOAT CoNA&NY.
A railroad corporation, whose railroad extends across the State bf Wisconsin
from Lake ichigan to the Mississippi River, and which is authorized, by its
charter, to make "such contracts with any other person or corporation whatsoever as the management of its railroad and the convenience and interest of
the corporation and the conduct of its affairs may in the judgment of its directors require;" and, by general laws, to make such contracts with any railroad company, whose road terminates on the eastern shore of Lake Michigan,
"as will enable them to run their roads in connection with each other in such
manner as they shall deem most beneficial to their interest," and "to build,
construct, and run, as part of its corporate property, such number of steamboats or vessels as they may deem necessary to facilitate the business operations of such company or companies;" and also "to accept from any other
State or Territory of the United States, and use, any powers or privileges applicable to the carrying of persons and property by railway or steamboat in
said State or Territory;" has the power, for the purpose of carrying passengers and freight in connection with its own railroad and business, to enter
into an agreement with the proprietors of steamboats running, by way of the
Great Lakes, between its eastern terminus and Buffalo in the State of New
York, by which it guarantees that the gross earnings of each boat for two
years shall amount to a certain sum.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Wisconsin.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
M/ir. Walter C. Larned for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Francis T1Lamb for the defendant in error.
MR. JusTcIE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought by the Union Steamboat Company,
a corporation established by the laws of the State of New York
at Buffalo in that State, against the Green Bay and Minnesota
Railroad Company, a corporation established by the laws of the
State of Wisconsin, and having its principal place of business
in this State.
The declaration alleges that the defendant was chartered in
1866, and was organized to construct and operate a railroad
across the State of Wisconsin east and west from the city of
Green Bay to the Mississippi River, and its road was built and
actually opened for business in December, 1873; that "it
became important for said defendant to make arrangements, in

Oct. 1882.]

GREEN BAY, ETC.

R.R. Co. v. UNION, ETC. Co.

99

regard to the business of carrying passengers and freight carried eastwardly over its road and destined for points east of
said city of Green Bay and out of the State, for their transportation east, as well as to secure business of carrying passengers
and freight arriving at or being moved west by way of the
defendant's route and railway; " and on the 9th of September,
1873, the plaintiff and defendant entered into a contract under
seal, whereby, in consideration that the plaintiff would, during
the season of navigation in 1876 and in 1877, run between
Buffalo and Green Bay, by the way of the Great Lakes, and
touching at intermediate ports, two steam propellers, then belonging to the plaintiff, for the purpose of carrying passengers
and freight to and from Green Bay, in connection with the
defendant's railway and business and docks at that place, the
defendant duly undertook and guaranteed to the plaintiff that
the gross earnings of each propeller in such business should be
for each of the two years the sum of $45,000 at least, and that,
if it should be less, the defendant would pay the difference to
the plaintiff on or before the first of January next succeeding
the close of navigation in each year.
The plaintiff further alleges that it duly put the propellers
on the route and kept them running thereon, in connection
with the defendant's business and in accordance with the contract, during the seasons of 1876 and 1877, and in all respects
duly performed all the conditions of the contract on its part;
that the gross earnings of each propeller for each season fell
short of the amount guaranteed by a certain sum named, which
thereupon became due and payable to the plaintiff from the
defendant, according to the contract, on the first of January
following; and that the two corporations were duly authorized
and empowered by their respective charters and the laws of
Wisconsin to make the contract.
The answer denies that the defendant was so empowered,
and avers that it has no information or knowledge sufficient to
form a belief as to whether the plaintiff was so empowered;
admits the making of the contract stated in the declaration,
and sets forth other provisions of that contract, with which it
alleges that the plaintiff had not complied. The plaintiff filed
a replication denying the allegations of the answer. Upon a

100

GREEN BAY, EC.

R.R. Co. v. UNioN,

DTc.

Co.

[Sup. Ct.

trial in June, 1878, a verdict was returned for the plaintiff for
$78,876.13, and judgment rendered thereon, and the defendant
sued out this writ of error.
No bill of exceptions having been seasonably tendered, the
only question presented by the record is whether, under the
general laws of the State of Wisconsin, and the defendant's
charter, which by those laws, as existing at the times of the
granting of the charter and of the trial ; Revised Statutes of
1858, c. 5, sect. 2 ; was declared to be a public act, the contract
sued on, as set forth in the declaration and admitted in the
answer, is ultra vires of the defendant corporation.
The general doctrine upon this subject is now well settled.
The charter of a corporation, read in connection with the general laws applicable to it, is the measure of its powers, and a
contract manifestly beyond those powers will not sustain an
action against the corporation. Bat whatever, under the charter and other general laws, reasonably construed, may fairly be
regarded as incidental to the objects for which the corporation
is created, is not to be taken as prohibited. Thomas v. Bailroad Co., 101 U. S. 71; Attorney-General v. Great Eastern
Bailway Co., 5 App. Cas. 473 ; -Davisv. Old Colony Railroad
Co., 131 Mass. 258.
The railroad of this corporation extends across the State of
Wisconsin from its eastern boundary on Lake Michigan to the
Mississippi River; and its charter empowers the directors to
make such agreements with any person or corporation whatsoever "as the construction of their railroad or its management
and the convenience and interest of the company and the conduct of its affairs may in their judgment require." Private
Laws of Wisconsin 1866, c. 540, sect. 7. It was within the
powers of the corporation, as incidental to its own proper business, to agree to transport as a carrier, over connecting railroad
and steamboat lines, passengers and freight intrusted to it for
carriage over its own line. Railway Company v. He Carthy, 96
U. S. 258. The general laws of Wisconsin, in force at the time
of the grant of this charter, authorize any railroad company in
this State to make such contracts with any railroad company,
whose road terminates on the eastern shore of Lake Michigan
within the State of Michigan, "as will enable said companies

Oct. 1882.]

GREEN BAY, ETC. R.R. Co. v. UNION, ETC. Co.

101

to run their roads in connection with each other in such manner
as they shall deem most beneficial to their interest," and "to
build, construct, and run, as a part of their corporate property,
such number of steamboats or vessels as they may deem necessary to facilitate the business operations of such company or
companies." General Laws of Wisconsin 1858, c. 76. And
by the general railroad act of 1872, "any railroad company,
heretofore or hereafter incorporated by or under the laws of
this State, may exercise all its rights, franchises, and privileges
in any other State or Territory of the United States, under and
subject to the laws of the State or Territory where it may
exercise, or attempt to exercise, the same, and may accept from
any other State or Territory, and use, any additional or other
powers or privileges applicable to the carrying of persons and
property by railway or steamboat in said State or Territory,
or otherwise applicable to the doings of said company in said
State or Territory." General Laws of Wisconsin 1872, c. 109,
sect. 51.
These statutes show that the legislature of Wisconsin, recognizing the fact that, from the geographical situation of the
State, the railroads which traverse it from east to west form
part of a line of transportation extending across the continent,
intended to confer upon the corporations owning such railroads
very large powers of contracting with other corporations owning
railroads or steamboats, whose course includes connecting parts
of the same great line of transportation.
To build and run, as part of the defendant's corporate property, such number of steamboats on Lake Michigan as it might
deem necessary to facilitate its business, would be within the
power expressly conferred by the statute of 1853 ; and we are
of opinion that, taking into consideration all the statutes above
quoted, it was equally within its corporate powers to hire,
either by the trip or by the season, steamboats belonging to
others, running from its eastern terminus along the Great
Lakes eastward; or to employ such steamboats to carry passengers and freight, in connection with its own railroad and
business, under an agreement by which it guaranteed to the
proprietors of the boats that their gross earnings for the season
should not fall below a certain sum.

102

MYRICK V. MICHIGAN CENTRAL R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

There is therefore nothing in the record before us to show
that the agreement sued on was beyond the corporate powers
of this railroad company.
Judgment affirmed.

MYRICK v.'MICHIGAN CENTRAL RAILROAD CO

IPANY.

1. In the absence of a special contract, a railroad company, by receiving cattle
for transportation over its own line and other lines therewith connected, is
only bound to carry the cattle over its own line, and deliver them safely to
the next connecting carrier.
2. A contract whereby the liability of the company is sought to be extended beyond such carriage and delivery will not be inferred from loose and doubtful expressions, but must be established by clear and satisfactory evidence.
Taking a through fare on the receipt of the cattle does not establish such
liability.
3. The receipt of the company, post, p. 103, does not of itself constitute such contract. The circumstances under which it was given should have been submitted to the jury, to determine whether in fact a through contract was
made.
4. In passing upon the rights of the parties, this court will not be controlled by
the judicial decisions of the State where the contract of carriage was made.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This is an action for breach of two alleged contracts of the
Michigan Central Railroad Company with the plaintiff, Paris
Myrick, each to carry for him two hundred and two head of
cattle from Chicago to Philadelphia, and there deliver them to
his order. It arises out of these facts: Myrick was in 1877
engaged, at Chicago, in the business of buying cattle, sometimes on his own account and sometimes for others, and forwarding them by railway to Philade]phia. The company is a
corporation created by the State of Michigan, and its line extends from Chicago to Detroit, where it connects with the
Great Western Railroad, which, by its connections, leads to
Philadelphia.
In November, 1877, Myrick purchased two lots of cattle,
each consisting of two hundred and two head, and shipped
them over the road of the company. One of the purchases

