Oct. 1882.]

BARBER v. SCHELL.

BARBER v. SCHELL.

SOHELL v. BARBER.
1. By schedule D of the act of July 30, 1846, c. 74, a duty of twenty-five per cent
ad valorem was imposed on "cotton laces, cotton insertings," and "manufactures composed wholly of cotton, not otherwise provided for." By sect. 1
of the act of March 3, 1857, c. 98, the duties on the articles enumerated in
schedules C and D of the act of 1846 were fixed at twenty-four and nineteen
per cent, respectively, "with such exceptions as are hereinafter made." By
sect. 2 of the act of 1857, "all manufactures composed wholly of cotton,
which are bleached, printed, painted, or dyed, and delaines," were transferred to schedule C. Held, that laces and insertings composed wholly of
cotton, and bleached or dyed, were dutiable at twenty-four per cent, under
the act of 1857.
2. The designations qualified by the word "cotton," in the act of 1846, are
designations of articles by special description, as contradistinguished from
designations by a commercial name or a name of trade, and are designations of quality and material.
3. Under the act of March 2, 1799, c. 23, the collector of customs is not entitled
to a fee for putting on an invoice a stamp or certificate as to the presentation of the invoice, or for an oath to an entry or for a jurat to such oath,
or for his order to the storekeeper to deliver examined packages.

ErRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Solicitor- eneral for Schell.
Air. George Bliss, contra.
IMR. JUSTICE BLATOEFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a suit commenced in 1863, by the members of the
firm of S. Cochran & Co., against the collector of the port of
New York. As tried in the Circuit Court it involved the
recovery back of duties paid on cotton laces and cotton insertings imported from abroad in 1857, 1858, 1859, 1860, and 1861,
and of fees paid at the custom-house. The laces and insertings
were composed wholly of cotton, and were " either bleached or
dyed." The collector charged a duty on them of twenty-four
per cent ad valorem, the importers claiming that the proper
duty was nineteen per cent ad palorem. At the trial the court

BARBER V. SCHELL.

[Sup. at.

instructed the jury that the duty was correctly assessed and
that the plaintiffs could not recover.
The question as to the fees involved four items. On the
presentation of an invoice and an entry, the collector, before he
would receive them as collector, impressed on each invoice, for
the convenience and security of himself and the government,
a stamp or certificate, certifying in the name of a deputy collector that the invoice was presented "on entry" on such a day.
On each entry, one of the plaintiffs was required to make and
subscribe before the collector or his deputy the owner's or consignee's oath. For each of such stamps the collector exacted
twenty cents, and for each of such oaths twenty cents. He
also exacted a fee of twenty cents for each permit to land the
merchandise embraced in each entry on which the duties had
been paid or secured, such permit being signed by the collector
and the naval officer. Said three fees of twenty cents were
paid with the duties, and otherwise no permit for the landing
and delivery of the goods could be obtained. The permit to
land covered all the goods embraced in the entry; but at least
one package of each invoice, and one package in every ten
packages of each invoice, were, by order of the collector, designated on each invoice, and each entry, and also on the permit,
to be sent, and were sent, to the public store for examination
and appraisement; and, after they had been examined and appraised and reported on, an order was required by the plaintiffs'
firm, signed by the collector alone, to the storekeeeper, to
deliver such examined packages to the plaintiffs' firm. For
every such order, without which the examined packages could
not be obtained, the collector exacted a fee of twenty cents.
At tbe trial, the plaintiffs conceded that the fee for the permit
was legal. The court directed a verdict for the plaintiffs for
the amounts exacted for the other three fees, with interest,
being $1,734.80, and, after a judgment for the plaintiffs therefor, with costs, the plaintiffs sued out a writ of error based on
their failure to recover the alleged excess of duty exacted on
the laces and insertings, and the defendant sued out a writ of
error based on the recovery for the three alleged illegal fees.
By schedule D of the act of July 80, 1846, c. 74, a duty of
twenty-five per cent ad valorem was imposed on "cotton laces,

Oct. 1882.]

BARBER V. SCHELL.

cotton insertings, cotton trimming laces, cotton laces and
braids," and " manufactures composed wholly of cotton, not
otherwise provided for."
By sect. 1 of the act of March 3, 1857, c. 98, it was enacted
that after July 1, 1857, ad valorem duties should be imposed
in lieu of those then imposed on imported goods, as follows:
"Upon the articles enumerated in schedules A and B" of the
tariff act of 1846, a duty of thirty per cent, " and upon those
enumerated in schedules C, D, E, F, G, and H of said act,"
the duties of twenty-four, nineteen, fifteen, twelve, eight, and
four per cent, respectively, "with such exceptions as are hereinafter made." The schedules above mentioned respectively imposed duties of one hundred, forty, thirty, twenty-five, twenty,
fifteen, ten, and five per cent.
Thus far cotton laces and cotton insertings, being in schedule
D of the act of 1846 at twenty-five per cent, were reduced by
the act of 1857, with the other articles in schedule D, to nineteen per cent. But sect. 2 of the act of 1857 provided "that
all manufactures composed wholly of cotton, which are bleached,
printed, painted, or dyed, and delaines, shall be transferred to
schedule C." Under this provision it would seem very plain
that the goods in the present case were subject to a duty of
twenty-four per cent, and not of nineteen per cent. If sect. 1 of
the act of 1857 had merely reduced from twenty-five per cent to
nineteen per cent the duty on the articles specially mentioned
in schedule D of the act of 1846, without exception, the duty
on the goods in question would have been reduced to nineteen
per cent. But the enactment was distinct that there should be
excepted out of the reduction "all manufactures composed
wholly of cotton, which are bleached, printed, painted, or dyed,
and delaines," and that they should go into schedule 0, the
twenty-four per cent schedule.
The contention for the plaintiffs is, that as cotton laces and
cotton insertings were made dutiable by those names in the act
of 1846, they are not to be affected by the subsequent general
provision as to manufactures composed wholly of cotton.
Schedule C of the act of 1846 imposed a duty of thirty per
cent on "cotton cords, gimps and galloons," and on " manufactures of cotton, .. . if embroidered or tamboured in the loom,

BARBER V. SCHELL.

[Sup. Gt.

or otherwise, by machinery, or with the needle, or other process." Schedule E imposed a duty of twenty per cent on "caps,
gloves, leggins, mits, socks, stockings, wove shirts and drawers,
made on frames, composed wholly of cotton, worn by men,
women, and children," and on "velvet, in the piece, composed
wholly of cotton." These provisions, and the one in schedule
D as to cotton laces, &c., relate to goods made of cotton entirely. Those goods are all of them goods to which, as "manufactures composed wholly of cotton," sect. 2 of the act of 1857
applies, transferring them, when bleached, printed, painted, or
dyed, to the twenty-four per cent schedule, schedule 0. The
duty on them had been thirty, twenty-five, and twenty per
cent respectively. But for such transfer the new duty on those
in schedules D and E would have been nineteen and fifteen.
A new uniform rate of twenty-four was imposed, and while the
thirty was reduced by six per cent, the twenty-five was reduced
by only one, ahid the twenty was increased by four. This indicates an intention, in the act of 1857, to impose, in general,
on manufactures composed wholly of cotton, when bleached,
printed, painted, or dyed, a relatively higher duty as compared
with other articles named in the act of 1846.
The expression "manufactures composed wholly of cotton"
is not found in the act of 1846. Itis in that act qualified by
the words "not otherwise provided for." In the act of 1857
the expression is, " all manufactures composed wholly of cotton,
which are bleached," &c. If the words " manufactures composed wholly of cotton," unqualified, and the words " cotton
laces" and "cotton insertings," had all of them been found in
the act of 1846, as the general expression would not have embraced the specific terms in that act, for dutiable purposes,
though including them in general language, it would be reasonable to say that the general expression in a later act would not
include the specific terms for dutiable purposes. But the fact
that the general expression, as used in schedule D of the act of
1846, is qualified by the words " not otherwise provided for,"
shows that there were manufactures composed wholly of cotton
otherwise provided for, that is, in other items in that act.
Thus, besides the embroidered and tamboured manufactures of
cotton provided for in schedule C of that act, there are cords,

Oct. 1882.]

BARBER V. SCHELL.

gimps, galloons, laces, insertings, trimming laces, laces and
braids, each with the word " cotton " prefixed, indicating manufactures composed wholly of cotton, and there are also the
articles composed wholly of cotton named in schedule E. The
material "cotton" is the thing of special mark, as the sole material in the manufacture. In this view it cannot properly be
said that these manufactured articles, manufactures of cotton
composed wholly of cotton, designated in the act of 1846 always
by the epithet "cotton" applied to them, are not embraced, for
dutiable purposes, in the terms "1all manufactures composed
wholly of cotton," in sect. 2 of the act of 1857.
The designations qualified by the word "cotton," in the act
of 1846, are designations of articles by special description, as
contradistinguished from designations by a commercial name or
a name of trade. They are designations of quality and material. The articles referred to, named in schedules C, D, and E
of the act of 1846, are all of them manufactures wholly of cotton; but under that act they were not all subject to the same
duty, and so that act designates them substantially as manufactures wholly of cotton which are gimps at thirty per cent,
manufactures wholly of cotton which are laces or insertings at
twenty-five per cent, manufactures wholly of cotton which are
stockings, made on frames and worn by human beings, at
twenty per cent, and so on. But for the exceptions provided
for by sect. 1 of the act of 1857 the duties on those articles, if
bleached, printed, painted, or dyed, would have been reduced
to twenty-four, nineteen, and fifteen per cent, respectively;
but sect. 2 of that act says, in substance, that manufactures
wholly of cotton which are gimps, or laces, or insertings, or
stockings, and so on, shall, all of them, be subject to twentyfour per cent duty. This was the view applied by Mlr. Justice
Nelson, in Reimer v. Schell, 4 Blatchf. 328, in 1859, to colored
cotton hosiery, under the provisions in question, and we think
it a sound one. It was the view adopted by the Circuit Court
in this case. There is no question of commercial designation.
Hence, the cases cited and relied on by the importers are not
in their favor.
Hnzer v. The Collector, 1 Wall. 486, in 1863, was a case in
which Mr.. Justice Nelson delivered the opinion of this court.

BARBER V. SCHELL.

[Sup. Ct.

It was a case under these same statutes. Almonds were dutiable, by that name, at forty per cent, in schedule B of the act of
1846. Under the act of 1857 the duty on the articles in said
schedule B was reduced to and fixed at thirty per cent, and the
collector exacted that duty on almonds. It was contended that
as, by sect. 2 of the latter act, "fruits, green, ripe, or dried,"
were transferred to schedule G, and so made subject to only
eight per cent duty, almonds were so transferred, as being
"fruits, green, ripe, or dried." An attempt was made, at the
trial, to show that, at the time the act of 1857 was passed,
almonds were fruit, green, ripe, or dried, according to the commercial understanding of those terms in the markets of this
country, and questions were certified to this court, on a division
of opinion in the Circuit Court, as to the proper duty on almonds, and as to the admissibility of such evidence. It was
contended, for the importer, that the term " dried fruits," in
popular meaning, included almonds. The government claimed
that the term "almonds" was a specific name, and, therefore,
commercial nomenclature had no application. This court held
that inquiry as to whether, in a commercial sense, almonds
were dried fruit, had nothing to do with the question, as a duty
had been imposed on almonds, eo nomine, almost immemorially;
and that, as almonds were charged specifically with a duty of
forty per cent in the act of 1846, and were not named as almonds in the changes in the act of 1857, and full effect could
be given to the term "fruit, dried," without including almonds
in it, it followed that almonds were dutiable at thirty per cent.
There is nothing in this decision that overrules that in 1-eimer
v. Schell, or that aids the importers in the present case. The
act of 1846, in substance, mentions manufactures wholly of
cotton which are laces or insertings, bleached or dyed, and
sect. 2 of the act of 1857 mentions them in naming manufactures composed wholly of cotton, bleached or dyed.
Nor does the case of Beihe v. Smythe, 13 Wall. 162, as to
birds, apply. That case was decided on the ground that the
word "animals," in the act of 1861, did not include "birds,"
and so could not include them in the act of 1866.
There is nothing in Smythe v. Fiske, 23 id. 374, or in
Arthur v. Morrison, 96 U. S. 108, which applies to this case.

Oct. 1882.]

BARBER V. SCHELL.

.lfozius v. Arthur, 95 U. S. 144, was decided on the same
view as Homer v. The Collector. " Patent leather" had been
dutiable by that name in the acts of 1861 and 1862. The act
of 1872 imposed a less duty on " skins dressed and finished, of
all kinds." This court held that patent leather continued subject to the former duty, on the view that, although patent
leather was a finished skin, something was done to it after it
could be called a finished skin to make patent leather of it, and
that it could not have been intended to include patent leather
in the general designation of "finished skins."
In Arthur v. Lahey, 96 id. 112, the subject of duty was
laces, manufactures of silk, on which a duty of sixty per cent
was exacted, under the act of 1864, as "silk laces." It was
contended that they were dutiable at thirty per cent, as
"thread laces," under the act of 1861, as amended by the act
of 1862. The question being submitted to the jury whether
they were commercially known as "thread laces," although
made of silk, it was found that they were, and the plaintiffs
had a verdict. This court held that the question was one of
commercial designation, and that the prior specific designation
of " thread laces" must prevail over the words "silk laces," it
appearing that there were thread laces of cotton and thread
laces of silk, and articles commercially known as silk laces, the
designation of "thread lace" depending on the mode of manufacture. The principle of that case, and of kindred cases,
such as Arthur v. Rheim8, id. 143, is, that the specific designation of an article by a commercial name will prevail over a
general term in a later act, and has no application to the present
case, which is not, as to cotton laces and cotton insertings, one
of designation by a commercial name.
The bill of exceptions in the present case states that previously to about 1879 there were no cotton laces printed or
dyed, and that from 1850 to 1861 there were many goods composed wholly of cotton, and bleached, printed, painted, colored,
or dyed, such as calicoes (prints), lawns, handkerchiefs, velvets,
and velveteens, and cotton piece-goods generally. If, when
sect. 2 of the act of 1857 was enacted, the words "printed"
and " painted" were not applicable to laces, it does not follow
that the provision is to be limited to such cotton articles as

BARBER V. SCHELL.

[Sup. Ct.

were then printed or painted as well as bleached or dyed. It
includes any article which, as then known, satisfied any one of
the conditions.
We see no warrant for the view that the act of 1857 applies
only to piece goods.
It results from these views that the goods in question were
subject to the duty imposed.
As to the three disputed fees, we are of opinion that they
were none of them allowed by the law in force, sect. 2 of the
act of March 2, 1799, c. 23.
The stamp or certificate on the invoice was one for the convenience and security of the collector and the government, and
was not an "official dertificate," in the sense of the statute. It
was not an official document required by the merchant, nor was
it given to him. It was a memorandum between officers in the
custom-house, as a part of their system of checks and authentications.
The fee for the oath to the entry, as a fee for its administration, was not named in the statute. As a fee for the jurat to
the oath, although the oath was required by the statute, and its
form was prescribed, and it was to be taken before the collector, the jurat was not an official document required by the
merchant or given to him.
The bill of exceptions states that the order to the storekeeper
to deliver examined packages was an order required by the
plaintiffs' firm from the collector. But we do not think it was
an official certificate, or an official document required by the
merchant, in the sense of the statute. The permit to land the
goods having been issued and paid for, and the duties paid or
secured, it was the duty of the officers of the customs to deliver
the goods, when examined. The order to the storekeeper was
a memorandum between officers. It was "required" by the
merchant, in one sense, because, without it, according to the
course of business, the storekeeper would not deliver the examined packages, but it was not an official document passing from
the custom-house to the merchant.
Judgment affirmed.

