Ot. 1882.]

SCHELL v. DODGE.

SCHELL V. DODGE.

BARNEY v. IsLER.

BARNEY v. Cox.
BARNEY v. FRiEDA.
Where a cause has been finally disposed of here, by the dismissal of the writ
of error, this court has no power, at a subsequent term, to alter its judgment to one of affirmance, although, if there had been a judgment of affirmance, interest during the pendency of the writ would have been allowed on
the amount of the judgment below, and in the judgment of dismissal no such
interest was allowed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Die Solicitor-Generalfor Schell and Barney.
Mr. John B. Par8ons,contra.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the

court.
These are all suits in each of which a judgment was rendered against a late collector of customs for the recovery of
money paid as duties. There has been a certificate of probable cause in each. A writ of error in each case was brought
here by direction of the government. When the cases were
reached in order on the docket of this court at October Term,
1881, the Solicitor-General, on the part of the government,
moved that the writs of error be dismissed, as presenting no
question which he desired to argue. This was done. There
was no affirmance of the judgments below, and the judgments
and mandates of this court contained no direction as to interest
on the judgments below daring the time the writs of error were
pending. Those judgments were rendered in 1878, and suspended by the writs of error for over three years. In the Dodge
case the mandate was issued, but has never been presented to
the court below. In the other cases, the mandates were issued

ScHELL V. DODGE.

[Sup. Ct.

and presented to the court below, and orders for judgment
were entered thereon. Counsel for the defendants in error in
the Dodge case were present in this court when that case was
so dismissed, but in the other cases no counsel for the defendants in error was present, and the motions to dismiss were
made Iwithout their knowledge, and the mandates were not
issued till after the close of the term.
The defendants in error now apply to this court to correct
the judgments and mandates in these cases, so as to award to
them interest as such or as damages for delay. There is no
doubt that, if the defendants in error in these cases had in
season asked for judgments of affirmance, their applications
would have been granted, and interest would have been allowed, in accordance with the decision in Schell v. Cochran,
ante, p. 625. But the difficulty now is that we have no power
to vary the judgments or the mandates, after the close of the
term, no especial right to do so in these cases having been
reserved. It has always been held by this court that it has
no power, after the term has passed, and a cause has been
dismissed or otherwise finally disposed of here, to alter its
judgment in such a particular as that now asked for, the
change of a dismissal of a writ of error, with its legal consequences, to an affirmance of the judgment below, with its
legal consequences, and not an error of mere form, or a clerical error, or a misprision of the clerk, or the like. Jackson v.
Ashton, 10 Pet. 480; Bank of the United States v. Moss, 6 How.
81, 38.
ATplications denied.

