Oct. 1882.]

Ex PARTE WALL.

265

EX PARTS WALL.
A rule was made by the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Florida, which, after reciting that it had come to tile knowledge of
the court that W., an attorney of the court, did, on a day specified, engage in
and with an unlawful, tumultuous, and riotous gathering, lie advising and
encouraging thereto, take from the jail of Hillsborough County, and hang by
the neck until he was dead, one John, otherwise unknown, thereby showing
such an utter disregard and contempt for the law which, as a sworn attorney,
he was bound to support, as shows him to be totally unfitted to occupy such
position: thereupon cited him to appear at a certain time and show cause
why his name should not be stricken from the roll. The attorney appeared,
and answered, denying the charge in mass, and excepting to the jurisdiction
of the court, (1) because there was no charge against him under oath, (2) because the offence charged was a crime by the laws of Florida for which lie
was liable to be indicted and convicted. The court overruled the exceptions,
and called a witness who proved the charge, showing that the hanging took
place before the court-house door, during a temporary recess of the court;
thereupon the court made an order striking W.'s name from the roll. On
motion made here for a mandamus to compel the judge of that court to reverse this order, and he having answered the rule, showing the special circumstances of the case,-Held,1. That although not strictly regular to
grant a rule to show cause why an attorney should not be struck off the
roll, without an affidavit making charges against him, yet that, under the special circumstances of this case, the want of such affidavit did not render the
proceeding void as coram non judice. 2. That the acts charged against the
attorney constituted sufficient ground for striking his name from the roll.
3. That although, in ordinary cases, where an attorney commits an indictable
offence, not in his character of attorney, and does not admit the charge, the
courts will not strike his name from the roll until he has been regularly indicted and convicted, yet that the rule is not an inflexible one; that there may
be cases in which it is proper for the court to proceed without such previous
conviction; and that the present case, in view of its special circumstances,
the evasive denial of the charge, the clearness of the proof, and the failure to
offer any counter proof, was one in which the court might lawfully exercise
its summary powers. 4. That the proceeding to strike an attorney from the
roll is one within the proper jurisdiction of the court of which he is an attorney, and does not violate the constitutional provision which requires an
indictment and trial by jury in criminal cases; that it is not a criminal proceeding, and not intended for punishment, but to protect the court from the
official ministration of persons unfit to practise as attorneys therein. 5. That
such a proceeding is not an invasion of the constitutional provision that no
person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process of
law; but that the proceeding itself, when instituted in proper cases, is due
process of law. 6. That, as the court below did not exceed its powers in
taking cognizance of the case, no such irregularity occurred in the proceeding as to require this court to interpose by the writ of mandamus.

Ex PARTE WALL.

[Sup. CL

for mandamus.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court.
PETITION

Mr. Charles T. Jones for the petitioner.
MR. JUSTICE. BRADLEy delivered the opinion of the court.

A petition was filed in this case by J. B. Wall for an alternate writ of mandamus to be directed to James W. Locke, district judge of the United States for the Southern District of
Florida, to show cause why a peremptory writ should not issue
to compel him to vacate an order made by him as such district
judge, prohibiting said Wall from practising at the bar of said
court, and to restore said Wall to the rights, privileges, and
immunities of an attorney and proctor thereof. The petition
set forth the proceedings complained of, and an order was made
by this court requiring the judge to show -cause why the prayer
of the petition should not be granted. The rule to show cause
has been answered, and we are now called upon to decide
whether the writ ought to be granted.
The proceedings of the court below for disbarring the petitioner were substantially as follows:On the 7th of March, 1882, during a term of the said court,
held at Tampa, Hillsborough County, Florida, the same court
exercising both Circuit and District Court jurisdiction, J. W.
Locke, the judge then holding said court, issued, and caused
to be served upon the petitioner, the following order: "CIRCUIT COURT OF THE U. S., So. DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
" MARCH TRm, 1882.

"Whereas it has come to the knowledge of this court that one
J. B. Wall, an attorney of this court, did, on the sixth day of this
present month, engage in and with an unlawful, tumultuous, and
riotous gathering, he advising and encouraging thereto, take from
the jail of Hillsborough County, and hang by the neck until he was
dead, one John, otherwise unknown, thereby showing such an utter
disregard and contempt for the law and its proVisions, which, as a
sworn attorney, he was bound to respect and support, as shows him
to be totally unfitted to occupy such position:
"It is hereby ordered that said J. B. Wall be cited to appear
and show cause by eleven o'clock Wednesday, the eighth instant,

Oct. 1882.]

Ex PARTE WALL.

why his name should not be stricken from the roll of attorneys, and
he be disbarred and prohibited from practising herein.
"(Signed)
J.A.tLs W. Locxx, -DistricteTudge.
"1TAi'A, FLORIDA, March 7, 1882."
Wall appeared in court at the return of this rule, and, on the
following day, filed a written answer, as follows: "This respondent, now and at all times hereafter saving and reserving to himself all and all manner of benefits of exception to the
many errors, uncertainties, and imperfections in the said rule contained, prays leave to object, as if he had demurred thereto, to the
right, authority, or jurisdiction of this court to issue said rule and
require him to answer it:
"1st, Because said rule does not show that the matters therein
charged took place in the presence of the court, or were brought to
the knowledge of the court by petition or complaint in writing
under oath; and,
"2d, Because respondent is charged in said rule with a high
crime against the laws of Florida not cognizable in this court, and
for which, if proven, this respondent is liable to indictment and
prosecution before the State court; but for answer to so much of
said rule as this respondent is advised that it is material or proper
for him to make answer to, answering, saith "He denies counselling, advising, encouraging, or assisting an unlawful, tumultuous, and riotous gathering or mob in taking one
John from the jail of Hillsborough County and causing his death
by hanging in contempt and defiance of the law, or that he has
been guilty of any unprofessional or immoral conduct which shows
him to be unfitted for the position of an attorney and proctor of this
court, as he is charged in the said rule.
"Wrhereupon he prays to be hence dismissed, &c.
" (Signed)
J. B. WALL."
The court overruled the exceptions to its jurisdiction, and
called to the stand Peter A. Williams, the marshal of the district, whose testimony, at the request of the respondent, was
reduced to writing, and was as follows:-"Peter A. Williams, being duly sworn to testify, says: "I saw Mr. J. B. Wall and others come to Mr. Craft's house
about two o'clock, March 6th, and having already heard that a
sherifi's posse had been summoned to protect the jail, I thought by

Ex PARTE WALL.

[Sup. t

the orderly manner they came in that it was the sheriff's posse coming for instructions. I was sitting on the end of the piazza, and
did not go in the house, but sat there till they came out, thinking
they had come for instructions.
"When they came out I heard one, of the party remark, ' We
have got all out of you we want.' Mr. Wall was one of the party.
"I then thought something was wrong; they all went out of the
gate, and Mr. Craft after them, and I followed after them rather
slowly, and when I got to the corner I saw the party coming out
of the jail with the criminal, the man who was afterwards hanged.
They carried him over the stepsto the oak tree in front of the steps
to the court-house. The crowd gathered around him, and some
one threw the -man down. I saw him then put on a dray, and
afterwards pulled up on the tree. There was a crowd of about a
hundred persons there. I don't think I could name any man in
that crowd except the sheriff, who was there protesting, as I had
come away from the crowd and was on the upper piazza of the
court-house. I heard the man hollowing. He was put on a dray
with a rope around his neck. The dray went off and he fell to the
ground about ten feet from a perpendicular; then the crowd pulled
the rope and he went up. The crowd had their backs towards me.
I suppose I could have identified some one if I had thought to, but
I was excited and did not notice who they were. I saw Mir. Wall
coming from the jail with the prisoner until they crossed the fence ;
then I did not see him any more until after it was over. I did not
see him leave the crowd, though he might have done it without my
seeing it. When going from the jail to the tree Mr. Wall, I think,
had hold of the prisoner; he was beside him.
" I did not see him afterwards until the hanging was ove; then
the crowd had increased, perhaps, to 200 persons, and I went down
to them to the plank-walk.
"This was Monday of this week, the 6th of this month, I think,
in Tampa, Hillsboro' County.
"I also saw Mr. Sparkham, the mayor of the city, protesting at
the time of the hanging."
To cross-questions he says:"When the man fell from the dray he fell his full length to the
ground; the rope was slack."
On the next day the court, after argument by respondent's
counsel, made an order in the case, "That J. B. Wall be pro-

Oct. 1882.]

Ex

PARTE WALL.

hibited from practising at the bar of this court until a further
order herein."
The answer of Judge Locke to the rule granted by this court
to show cause why a mandamus should not issue, states: "That during a session of the Circuit and District Courts of the
United States at Tampa, in said Southern District of Florida, be,
the said James W. Locke, presiding, on the sixth day of March,
A. D. 1882, at the adjournment of said courts for dinner, at about
one o'clock of said day, as he was passing from the court-house, a
prisoner was being brought to the jail in the same yard by two officers; that upon his return to the court-house after dinner, in a little
more than an hour, the dead body of the same prisoner hung from
the limb of a tree directly in front of the court-house door; whereby
he became personally informed of the commission of a most serious
offence against the laws. The same afternoon he was informed of
the active participation in said crime of one J. B. Wall, an attorney
of said court, by an eye-witness in whom the most implicit confi-

dence could be placed, but who declined to make any charge or affidavit of such fact on account of a fear of said Wall's influence and
the local feeling it would cause against him, the said witness.
"That not only from the direct statements of eye-witnesses, but
from numerous other sources, reliable information of like import
was received; whereupon said J. B. Wall, your petitioner, was, on
the said seventh day of March, during a session of the Circuit Court
of the United States, in open court, charged in writing by the respondent herein, as judge, with having, with an unlawful, tumultuous, and riotous gathering, he advising and encouraging thereto,
taken from the jail of Hillsborough County, and hanged to a tree
by the neck until be was dead, a man to the court known only as
John; and cited by rule served upon him to show cause by eleven
o'clock A. M. of the next day, the eighth day of said March, why
his name should not be stricken from the roll of attorneys and he
prohibited from practising in the U. S. courts of said district.
"That at said time of return, said J. B. Wall appeared in person,
and by counsel, and moved that whereas said rule had charged him
with a criminal offence, indictable by the grand jury of the courts
of the State, the matter be continued until after the meeting of such
grand jury; and the matter was held under advisement by the
court and continued until next day.
"That at the opening of the court the next day, before any order
had been made upon the pending motion, came said J. B. Wall,

Ex PARTE WALL.

[Sup. Ok.

and withdrew said motion for continuance, and filed answer demur.
ring to the right of the court to issue the rule served upon him, because [stating the contents of Wall's answer], and demanded that
proof be had of the matter charged.
"That thereupon Peter A. Williams, Esq., U. S. marshal for said
district, being duly sworn, testified as follows: [stating the testimony of Williams, as before given.]
"Whereupon J. B. Wall, being himself present and stating that
he had no testimony to offer, and desiring to be heard by counsel,
was so heard, and the court took the matter under consideration.
"Afterwards, to wit, on the tenth day of March aforesaid, the
matter having been fully and duly considered, it was ordered that
J. B. Wall be prohibited from practising at the bar of Circuit or
District Courts of this district until further order therein.
"All of which matters are true, and as far as relate to the action
of the court therein shown and set forth in the records of said
court and the papers therein.
"And, further answering, he says that J. B. Wall at no time denied active participation in the hanging as charged, nor answered
the spirit and substance of said charge.
"That when the motion for continuance was withdrawn by him,
and the demand made that proof be made of the charge, upon inquiry your respondent ascertained that both the sheriff and mayor,
who had alone opposed the action of the mob, and the only parties
present not active participants, were absent from the city, and
could not be summoned to testify without unadvisable delay; of
all of which said J. B. Wall had knowledge.
"That on account of the excited state of feeling existing at the
time, the timidity of many, from the influential position of some of
those engaged in the hanging, and the sympathy of others with the
lynchers, it was not advisable to attempt to compel any resident of
said city of Tampa who was found to have personal knowledge of
the matter, to testify against said J. B. Wall.
"That said 3. B. Wall had every opportunity to explain his presence and action in the matter as proven, if innocent, but made no
attempt to do so.
"1That the evidence, although of but a single witness, for grounds
already stated, was to your respondent positively conclusive beyond
a reasonable doubt that said J. B. Wall had been guilty of active
participation in a most immoral and criminal act, and a leader in a
most atrocious murder, in defiance and contempt of all law and justice, and had thereby shown himself unfitted to longer retain the

Oct. 1882.]

2Ex
PARTE

WALL.

position of an attorney in any court over which your respondent
might have the honor to preside.
"Wherefore and upon which showing your respondent would
most humbly submit to your Honors that said order prohibiting said
J. B. Wall from practising as attorney should not be revoked nor
he restored to the rights and privileges of an attorney of said
courts
"J'A_,'ES

"KEY WEsT, FLA.,

W.

LOcKE,

". S. Dis. udge, So. Dis. Fla.
Dec'r 2, 1882."

It will be perceived that the rule to show cause, which was
served upon the petitioner, contained a definite charge of a
very heinous offence, and that an opportunity was given to
him to meet it and to exonerate himself if he could do so. It
would, undoubtedly, have been more regular to have required
the charge to be made by affidavit, and to have had a copy
thereof served (with the rule) upon the petitioner. But the
circumstances of the case, as shown by the return of the judge,
seem to us to have been sufficient to authorize the issuing
of the rule without such an affidavit. The transaction in which
the petitioner was charged with participating was virtually in
the presence of the court. It took place in open day, in front
of the court-house, and during a temporary recess of the actual
session of the court; and the awful result of the lawless demonstration was exhibited to the judge on his return to the courtroom. Under the intense excitement which prevailed, it is
not wonderful that no person could be found willing to make
a voluntary charge against the petitioner or any one else; and
yet, the fact that he was engaged as one of the perpetrators
was so notorious, and was brought to the judge's knowledge by
information so reliable and positive, that he justly felt it his
duty to take official notice of it, and to give the petitioner an
opportunity of repelling the charge. This was done in such a
manner as not to deprive him of any substantial right. The
charge was specific, due notice of it was given, a reasonable
time was set for the hearing, and the petitioner was not required to criminate himself by answering under oath. In Ex
parte Steinman and Hensel, 95 Pa. St. 220, where the county
court on its own motion had cited the parties before it for

EX PARTE WALL.

[Sup. Ct.

publishing a gross libel upon the court, and bad struck their
names from the roll, though, on appeal, the order was reversed
on other grounds, as to the mode of initiating the proceedings,
Chief Justice Sharswood, delivering the opinion of the court,
said: " We entertain no doubt that a court has jurisdiction
without any formal complaint or petition, upon its own motion,
to strike the name of an attorney from the roll in a proper
case, provided he has had reasonable notice, and been afforded
an opportunity to be heard in his defence." In the case of
Randall v. Brighiam, 7 Wall. 523, 539, which was an action
for damages brought by an attorney against a judge for striking his name from the roll unjustly and without authority,
not having before him in making the order to show cause any
charge of misconduct, except only a letter of a third person
addressed to the grand jury; this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Field, said: "But the claim of the plaintiff is not correct.
The information imparted by the letter was sufficient to put in
motion the authority of the court, and the notice to the plaintiff was sufficient to bring him before it to explain the transaction to which the letter referred. The informality of the
notice, or of the complaint by letter, did not touch the question
of jurisdiction. The plaintiff understood from them the nature
of the charge against him; and it is not pretended that the
investigation which followed was not conducted with entire
fairness. He was afforded ample opportunity to explain the
transaction and vindicate his conduct."
Looking at all the circumstances of the present case, we are
not prepared to say that the course which was pursued rendered the proceedings void, as being coram non judice, And
since they were noi void (though not strictly regular), and
since no substantial right of the petitioner was invaded, we do
not think that the mere form of the proceeding requires us to
interpose by the extraordinary remedy of mandamus.
The next question to be considered is, whether the facts
charged against the petitioner constitute a legitimate ground for
striking his name from the roll. Of this we think there can
be no doubt. It is not contended but that, if properly proven,
the facts charged are good cause for removal from the bar. A
moment's consideration will be sufficient to demonstrate this.

Oct. 1882.]

Ex

PARTE WALL.

It is laid down in all the books in which the subject is
treated, that a court has power to exercise a summary jurisdiction over its attorneys to compel them to act honestly towards
their clients, and to punish them by fine and imprisonment for
misconduct and contempts, and, in gross cases of misconduct,
to strike their names from the roll. If regularly convicted of
a felony, an attorney will be struck off the roll as of course,
whatever the felony may be, because he is rendered infamous.
If convicted of a misdemeanor which imports fraud or dishonesty, the same course will be taken. He will also be struck
off the roll for gross malpractice or dishonesty in his profession,
or for conduct gravely affecting his professional character. In
Archbold's Practice, edition by Chitty, p. 148, it is said:
"The court will, in general, interfere in this summary way
to strike an attorney off the roll, or otherwise punish him, for
gross misconduct, not only in cases where the misconduct has
arisen in the course of a suit, or other regular and ordinary
business of an attorney, but where it has arisen in any other
matter so connected with his professional character as to afford
a fair presumption that he was employed in or intrusted with
it in consequence of that character." And it is laid down by
Tidd that "where an attorney has been fraudulently admitted,
or convicted (after admission) of felony, or other offence
which renders him unfit to be continued an attorney, or has
knowingly suffered his name to be made use of by an unqualified person, or acted as agent for such person, or has signed a
fictitious name to a demurrer, as and for the signature of a barrister, or otherwise grossly misbehaved himself, the court will
order him to be struck off the roll." 1 Tidd's Practice, 89,
ed. 9. Where an attorney was convicted of theft, and the crime
was condoned by burning in the hand, he was nevertheless
struck from the roll. "The question is," said Lord Mansfield,
" whether, after the conduct of this man, it is proper that he
should continue a member of a profession which should stand
free from all suspicion. . . . It is not by way of punishment;
but the court in such cases exercise their discretion, whether a
man whom they have formerly admitted is a proper person to
'be continued on the roll or not."
Now, what is the offence with which the petitioner stands
VOL. XVu.

18

Ex PARTE WALL.

[Sup. Ct.

charged? It is not a mere crime against the law; it is much
more than that. It is the prostration of all law and government; a defiance of the laws; a resort to the methods of
vengeance of those who recognize no law, no society, no government. Of all classes and professions, the lawyer is most
sacredly bound to uphold the laws. He is their sworn servant;
and for him, of all men in the world, to repudiate and override
the laws, to trample them under foot, and to ignore the very
bands of society, argues recreancy to his position and office,
and sets a pernicious example to the insubordinate and dangerous elements of the body politic. It manifests a want of
fidelity to the system of lawful government which he has
sworn to uphold and preserve. Whatever excuse may ever
exist for the execution of lynch law in savage or sparsely settled districts, in order to oppose the ruffian elements which the
ordinary administration of law is powerless to control, it certainly has no excuse in a community where the laws are duly
and regularly administered.
But besides the character of the act itself, as denoting a
gross want of fealty to the law and repudiation of legal government, the particular circumstances of place and time invest it
with additional aggravations. The United States court was in
session; this enormity was perpetrated at its door; the victim
was hanged on a tree, with audacious effrontery, in the virtual
presence of the court! No respect for the dignity of the government as represented by its judicial department was even
affected; the judge of the court, in passing in and out of the
place of justice, was insulted by the sight of the dangling
corpse. What sentiments ought such a spectacle to arouse in
the breast of any upright judge, when informed that one of the
officers of his own court was a leader in the perpetration of
such an outrage?
We have no hesitation as to the character of the act being
sufficient to authorize the action of the court.
A question of greater difficulty is raised as to the legality of
proceeding in a summary way on a charge of this nature. It
is strenuously contended that when a crime is charged against
an attorney for which he may be indicted, and the truth of the
charge is denied or not admitted by him, it cannot be made the

Oct. 1882.]

EX PARTE WALL.

ground of an application to strike his name from the roll until
he has been regularly convicted by a jury in a criminal proceeding; or, at least, that this is true, when the act charged
was not committed in his professional character.
As, in urging this argument, much stress is laid upon the
fact that the petitioner, by his answer, denied the charge contained in the rule to show cause, it is proper to notice the
manner in which this denial was made. The charge, as we
have seen, was specific and particular: "That J. B. Wall, an
attorney of this court, did, on the sixth day of this present
month, engage in and with an unlawful, tumultuous, and riotous gathering, he advising and encouraging thereto, take from
the jail of Hillsborough County and hang by the neck until he
was dead, one John, otherwise unknown, thereby showing an
utter disregard and contempt for the law and its provisions,"
&c. The denial of this charge was a mere negative pregnant,
amounting only to a denial of the attending circumstances and
legal consequences ascribed to the act. The respondent denied
"counselling, advising, encouraging, or assisting an unlawful,
tumultuous, and riotous gathering or mob in taking one John
from the jail of Hillsborough County and causing his death by
banging, in contempt and defiance of the law." He was not
required to answer under oath, and did not do so. Yet, free
from this restriction, he did not come out fully and fairly and
deny that he was engaged in the transaction at all; but only
that he did not engage in it with the attendant circumstances
and legal consequences set out in the charge. Even the name
of the victim is made a material part of the traverse.
Upon such a special plea as this, we think the court was justified in regarding the denial as unsatisfactory. It was really
equivalent to an admission of the substantial matter of the
charge.
Nevertheless, the marshal of the court was called as a witness, and clearly proved the truth of the charge; and no evidence was offered in rebuttal. The case, as it stood before the
court, was as clear of all doubt as if the petitioner had expressly admitted his participation in the transaction.
It is necessary, however, that we should examine the authorities on the question raised by the petitioner, as to the

I

EX PARTE WALL.

[Sup. Ct.

power of the court to proceed against him without a previous
conviction upon an indictment.
It has undoubtedly been held in some of the cases that where
the offence is indictable, and the facts are not admitted, a regular conviction must be had before the court will exercise its
summary jurisdiction to strike the name of the party off the
roll. At first view this was supposed to be the purport of
Lord Denman's judgment in the anonymous case reported in
5 Barn. & Adol. 1088. That was a case of professional misconduct in pecuniary transactions. Lord Denman is reported as
saying: "The facts stated amount to an indictable offence. Is
it not more satisfactory that the case should go to a trial?
I have known applications of this kind after conviction, upon
charges involving professional misconduct; but we should be
cautious of putting parties in a situation where, by answering,
they might furnish a case against themselves, on an indictment
to be afterwards preferred. On an application calling upon
an attorney to answer the matters of an affidavit, it is not usual
to grant the rule if an indictable offence is charged." And
the Solicitor-General, Sir John Campbell, who made the application in that case, being requested to look at the authorities,
afterwards stated that he could find no precedent for it. In
that case, however, the rule applied for was one requiring the
attorney to answer charges on oath. On a similar application
,
in a subsequent case charging perjury and fraud, In re 3 Nev. & Perry, 389, Lord Denman said: "Would not an indictment for perjury lie upon these facts? We are not in the
habit of interfering in such a case, unless there is something
amounting to an admission oin the part of the attorney, which
would render the intervention of a jury unnecessary."
, 2 Dowl.
In another case in the Exchequer, Ex parte P. C. 110, where an attorney had-been sued in an action at law
for an aggravated libel, and a verdict had been rendered against
him with only one shilling damages; on an application being
then made to strike him off the roll, Lord Lyndhurst said:
"Have you any instance of such an application on a verdict
for the same criminal act, but for which no criminal proceedings
have been taken?" and intimated that if there was any such
case, the rule would be granted, but added: "Here there was

Oct. 1882.]

Ex

PARTE WALL.

conflicting evidence at the trial, and it is doubtful whether the
publication was brought home to the defendant ; and the jury
seemed to have so considered it: " and the rule was refused.
But this matter was carefully reviewed by the Court of Exchequer in the subsequent case of Stephens v. Hill, 10 Mee. &
W. 28, where motion was made against an attorney who had
conspired with others to induce a witness for the opposite party
to absent himself from a trial, giving him money, &c. It was
objected that the application to strike from the roll could not
be heard on these charges without a conviction, inasmuch as a
conspiracy is an indictable offence. Lord Abinger took a distinction between a rule to show cause why an attorney should
not be struck off the roll, and a rule calling on him to answer
the matters of an affidavit with a view to strike him off the
roll. The latter course he conceded would be improper, if the
offence was indictable, because it would compel the attorney to
criminate himself; but inot so the former, for he might clear
himself without answering under oath; and that this was all
,that Lord Denman meant in the case before him. Lord Abinger said that as long as he had known Westminster Hall, he
had never heard of such a rule as that an attorney might not
be struck off the roll for misconduct in a cause merely because
the offence imputed to him was of such a nature that he might
have been indicted for it; but he said that in the case of applications calling upon an attorney to answer the matters of
an affidavit, he had known Lord Kenyon and Lord Ellenborough frequently say, You cannot have a rule for this purpose,
because the misconduct you impute to the man is indictable;
but you may have one to strike him off the roll. After noticing and explaining the language attributed to Lord Denman,
as before stated, Lord Abinger adds: "If, indeed, a case should
occur where an attorney has been guilty of some professional
misconduct for which the court by its summary jurisdiction
might compel him to do justice, and at the same time has been
guilty of something indictable in itself, but not arising out of
the cause, the court will not inquire into that with a view of
striking him off the roll, but would leave the party aggrieved
to his remedy by a criminal prosecution."
This expression, about leaving the party aggrieved to his

EX PARTE WALL.

[Sup. Ct.

remedy by a criminal prosecution, is frequently found in the
English cases, and has reference to the practice in that country
of regarding the party injured by the perpetration of a crime
as the proper person to prosecute the offender; and one, indeed,
upon whom a duty, in some sort, rested to institute such prosecution. The court would, therefore, hesitate to take any
summary action against the offender which might remove the
inducements the injured party would otherwise have for proceeding criminally against him, and thus interfere -with the
course of justice. In this country, the prosecution of criminal
offences is generally committed to the charge of a public officer,
and sufficient emolument is attached to the duty of prosecution
to secure its faithful performance. The same reason, therefore,
does not exist here, as in England, for leaving it to the injured
party to prosecute for the criminal offence. So far as the
offender himself is concerned, it is true, the reason is equally
strong against compelling him to answer under oath charges
preferred against him, and in favor of giving him a trial by
jury in all cases of doubt oir of conflicting evidence. That a
reluctance to interfere with the incentive to prosecute criminally in these cases operated strongly upon the judicial mind
in England, is manifest from the fact, that after a prosecution
had been made, and the duty of the injured party had been
performed, the courts never hesitated to strike the accused
from the roll, if found guilty by a jury, even though judgment
against him had been arrested, or reversed, or the offence had
been pardoned or condoned, Bex v. Southerton, 6 East, 126;
In the Hatter of .ivg, 8 Q. B. 129; In re Garbett, 18 C. B.
403; thus showing that it is not a technical conviction which
is required, but a fair effort on the part of the prosecutor to
bring the offender to justice; coupled also with the fact that
a jury is the most suitable tribunal for passing upon a question
of fact depending upon conflicting evidence.
Some expressions in the cases cited, including the remarks
made by Lord Abinger in Stephens v. H1ill, seem to imply
that the summary jurisdiction will not be exercised where the
charges made against an attorney affect only his general character as such, and do not amount to malpractice in a particular
cause. But subsequent decisions are to the effect that it is

Oct. 1882.]

EX PARTE WALL.

properly extended to cases affecting his general character also.
Thus, in Re JBlake, 3 El. & El. 34, an attorney was struck
from the roll for having improperly collected the money due on
a mortgage which he bad pledged as collateral security for a
loan, and which he borrowed from the pledgee on some false
pretence. On a rule to show cause and reference to the master, the facts were found to be truly charged; and although
he was not acting as attorney in the matter, the court suspended his certificate for two years, on the general ground, as
stated by Lord Chief Justice Cockburn, that where an attorney
is shown to have been guilty of gross fraud, although not such
as to render him liable to an indictment, nor committed by
him while the relation of attorney and client was subsisting
between him and the person defrauded, or in his character as
an attorney, the court will not allow suitors to be exposed to
gross fraud and dishonesty at the bands of one of its officers.
And in a subsequent case, Be Hill, Law Rep. 3 Q. B. 543,
where an attorney acting, not as such, but as clerk to a firm
of attorneys, appropriated to his own use money which came
to his hands on the sale of an estate; on a motion to strike
his name from the roll, it was objected that, as his offence was
indictable, a conviction was necessary before this proceeding
could be had. Lord Chief Justice Cockburn said: "No case
has, so far as I am aware, come before the court under the precise circumstances under which this case presents itself, namely,
of an act of delinquency committed by an attorney's clerk, who
at the same time is an attorney, though at that time not acting as such; but still I think, on every principle of justice,
we ought not the less to entertain the application. . . . If the
delinquent had been proceeded against criminally upon the
facts admitted by him, it is plain that he would have been
convicted of embezzlement; and, upon that conviction being
brought before us, we should have been bound to act. If there
had been a conflict of evidence upon the affidavits, that might
be a very sufficient reason why the court should not interfere
until the conviction had taken place; but here we have the
person against whom the application is made admitting the
facts." Mr. Justice Blackburn, in the same case, said: "I
think when we are called upon, in the exercise of our equitable

EX PARTE WALL.

[Sup. Ct.

jurisdiction, to order an attorney to perform a contract, to
pay money, or to fulfil an undertaking, there we have jurisdiction only if the undertaking or the contract is made in his
character of attorney, or so connected with his character of attorney as to bring it within the power of the court to require
that their officer should behave well as an officer. But where
there is a matter which would subject the person in question
to a criminal proceeding, in my opinion, a different principle
must be applied. We are to see that the officers of the court
are proper persons to be trusted by the court with regard to
the interests of suitors, and we are to look to the character
and position of the persons, and judge of the acts committed
by them, upon the same principle as if we were considering
whether or not a person is fit to become an attorney. ... It
should be considered whether the particular wrong done is
connected with the character of an attorney. The offence
morally may not be greater, but still, if done in the character
of an attorney, it is more dangerous to suitors, and should be
more severely marked. I agree that where it is denied that a
criminal offence has been committed, the court ought not to
decide on affidavits a question which ought to be tried before
a jury."
This case is important as showing the latest consideration of
the question by the English courts, and by the most eminent
judges of those courts.
The rule to be deduced from all the English authorities
seems to be this: that an attorney will be struck off the roll if
convicted of felony, or if convicted of a misdemeanor involving
want of integrity, even though the judgment be arrested or reversed for error; and also (without a previous conviction) if he
is guilty of gross misconduct in his profession, or of acts which,
though not done in his professional capacity, gravely affect his
character as an attorney: hut in the latter case, if the acts
charged are indictable, and are fairly denied, the court will not
proceed against him until he has been convicted by a jury; and
will in no case compel him to answer under oath to a charge
for which he may be indicted.
This rule has, in the main, been adopted by the courts of
this country; though special proceedings are provided for by

Oct. 1882.]

EX PARTE WALL.

statute in some of the States, requiring a formal information
under oath to be filed, with regular proceedings and a trial by
jury. The cases are quite numerous in which attorneys, for
malpractice or other misconduct in their official character, and
for other acts which showed them to be unfit persons to practise as attorneys, have been struck from the roll upon a summary proceeding without any previous conviction of a criminal
charge. See, amongst others, the case of Niven, 1 Wheeler,
Crim. Cas. 337, note; Ex parte Burr, id. 503; s. c. 2 Cranch
0. 0. 379; lh the Matter of Peterson, 3 Paige (N. Y.), 510;
. x parte Brown, 1 How. (Miss.) 303 ; R the Mlatter of Mills,
1 Mich. 392; Ex parte Secombe, 19 How. 9; In re John Percy,
36 N. Y. 651; Dickens's Case, 67 Pa. St. 169; In re Hirst and
Ingersoll, 9 Phil. (Pa.) 216 ; Baker v. Commonwealth, 10 Bush
(Ky.), 592; Penobscot Bar v. Aimball, 64 Me. 140; M1
latter
of George W. Wool, 36 Mich. 299; People v. Goodrich, 79 Ill.
148; Delano's Case, 58 N. H. 5; Lx parte Walls, 64 Ind. 461;
lt the Matter of Ridridge, 82 N. Y. 161.
But where the acts charged against an attorney are not done
in his official character, and are indictable, and not confessed,
there has been a diversity of practice on the subject: in some
cases it being laid down that there must be a regular indictment and conviction before the court will proceed to strike him
from the roll; in others, such previous conviction being deemed
unnecessary.
The former view is taken, or seems to be assumed, in the
cases we will now cite.
In an anonymous case, reported in 2 Halst. (N. J.) 162
(1824), where the charge was larceny, the court refused the
rule to strike off the roll, because the offence was indictable,
and there had been no conviction.
In The State v. Floreman, 3 Mo. 412, the court refused to disbar an attorney for passing counterfeit money, knowing it to
be counterfeit, and escaping from prison before being convicted
therefor; the ground of refusal being that it was not a case
within the Missouri statute, which required a conviction. Of
course, being governed by the statute, this case is not in point.
In Ex parte Fisher, 6 Leigh (Va.), 619 (1835), Fisher commented to a jury in a manner which the judge deemed grossly

EX PARTE WALL.

[Sup. Ct.

unprofessional and disrespectful to the court; and on the next
day, after reciting the circumstances, made an order suspending his license for twelve months. This order was reversed by
the Court of Appeals, on the ground that the party proceeded
against must be regularly prosecuted by indictment or information, and found guilty by a jury. But as this decision was
based upon a statute of Virginia, prescribing the course of proceeding, it is no authority on the point in question.
In The State v. Chapman, 11 Ohio, 430, an attorney had been
charged with theft, and brought an action of slander thbrefor;
the defendant pleaded the truth in justification, and obtained a
verdict establishing his defence. Upon this, a rule was granted
against the attorney to show cause why he should not be struck
off the roll. He proved explanatory circumstances; and the
court held that the verdict in the civil action was not sufficient
to establish the charge of larceny, and discharged the rule.
In Beene v. The State, 22 Ark. 149, where the defendant had
made an unwarrantable and atrocious personal attack upon the
circuit judge for his action as judge; on application of the
county bar to strike his name from the roll, the rule was
granted; but the Supreme Court of Arkansas reversed the
order, on the ground that the proceedings were irregular, and
not in pursuance of the statute, vhich required regular charges
to be exhibited, verified by affidavit, and a time fixed for hearing. The court also held that where the offence is indictable,
there must be a regular conviction before the party can be
struck off the roll; if not indictable, he was entitled to be tried
by a jury. This case seems to have been decided upon the
statutes of Arkansas.
In Exparte Steinman and Hensel, 95 Pa. St. 220, the respondents published a libel against the judges of the Quarter Sessions of Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, accusing them of
political motives in allowing a defendant to be acquitted. On
being cited to show cause why they should not be struck off
the roll, they took the ground, amongst other things, that they
were charged with an indictable offence, and were entitled to a
trial by jury. The court having made the rule absolute, they
appealed, and the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania reversed the
order. Chief Justice Sbarswood, in delivering the opinion of

Oct. 1882.]

EX PARTE WALL.

the court, said: "No question can be made of the power of a
court to strike a member of the bar from the roll for official
misconduct. . . . We do not mean to say that there may not
be cases of misconduct not strictly professional, which would
clearly show a person not to be fit to be an attorney, nor fit to
associate with honest men. Thus, if he was proved to be a
thief, a forger, a perjurer, or guilty of other offences of the
crilmen falsi. But no one, we suppose, will contend that for
such an offence he can be summarily convicted and disbarred
by the court without a formal indictment, trial, and conviction
by a jury, or upon confession in open court." Reference was
then made to a provision in the Bill of Rights of the Pennsylvania Constitution of 1874, that "no conviction shall be had in
any prosecution for the publication of papers relating to the
official conduct of officers, &c., where the fact that such publication was not maliciously or negligently made, shall be
established to the satisfaction of the jury;" and it was held
that this provision, at all events, entitled the parties to a jury
trial.
The cases now cited do undoubtedly hold, that where the
offence charged is indictable and is committed outside of the
attorney's professional employment or character, and is denied
by him, a conviction by a jury should be had before the court
will take action for striking his name from the roll.
There are other cases, however, in which it is held that a
previous conviction is not necessary.
In .ixparte Burr, 1 Wheeler, Criminal Cases, 503, s. c.
2 Cranch C. C. 379, the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia struck Burr off the roll on charges made by Mr. Key,
of various instances of malpractice, and also of dishonest conduct, in procuring deeds of property from persons in distress,
&c. Burr objected, amongst other things, that he was entitled
to a trial by jury. The court examined witnesses, who were
cross-examined by the defendant, and Chief Justice Cranch
delivered an elaborate opinion, concluding by making the rule
absolute for disbarring the accused, holding that proceedings
by attachment, as for contempt and to purify the bar of unworthy members, are not within those provisions of the Constitution which guarantee a trial by jury. This case was brought

EX PARTE WALL.

[Sup. A0.

to the attention of this court on an application for a mandamus
to compel the Circuit Court to restore Burr to the bar, and the
writ was refused. The court, by Chief Justice Marshall, expressed a disinclination to interpose unless the conduct of the
court below was irregular or flagrantly improper; as where it
had exceeded its power or decided erroneously on the testimony ; and upon the testimony, it would be unwilling to interpose where any doubt existed.
Fields v. The State, Mart. & Y. (Tenn.) 168, was the case
of a constable (but placed upon the same ground as that of
attorneys), and the charge was, extortion. The Supreme
Court of Tennessee, by Catron, J., held that a previous conviction was not necessary to enable the court below to suspend from office; that the constitutional privilege of trial by
jury for crime does not apply to prevent courts from punishing its officers for contempt, and to regulate them or remove
them in particular cases; that removal from office for an indictable offence is no bar to an indictment; that it is a
proceeding in its nature civil, and collateral to any criminal
prosecution by indictment; and that, even if acquitted by a
jury, the party could be removed if the court discovered from
the facts proved on the trial that he was guilty of corrupt
practices.
In the subsequent case of Smith v. The State, 1 Yerg. (Tenn.)
228, the charge was that the attorney bad accepted a challenge
in Tennessee to fight a duel, and had fought with and killed.
his antagonist in Kentucky, where an indictment had been
found against him. He demurred to the charge, and judgment
was given against him on the demurrer, that his name be
struck from the roll. The Supreme Court of Tennessee held
the charge to be sufficient; but that, instead of receiving a
demurrer, the Circuit Court should have proceeded to take the
proofs to ascertain the truth of the charge. The court, by
Catron, J., said -- "The principle is almost universal in all
governments, that the power which confers an office has also
the right to remove the officer for good cause; the county
court; constables, &c.; the senate; officers elected by the legislature and people; in all these cases the tribunal removing is
of necessity the judge of the law and fact; to ascertain which,

Oct. 1882.]

Ex PARTE

WALL.

every species of evidence can be heard, legal in its character,
according to common-law rules, and consistent with our Constitution and laws. This court, the Circuit Court, or the county
court, on a motion to strike an attorney from the rolls, has the
same right, growing out" of a similar necessity, to examine evidence of the facts, that the senate of the State has when trying
an impeachment. . . .The attorney may answer the charges
in writing if he chooses, when evidence will be heard to support or to resist them; or, if he does not answer, still the
charges must be proved, or confessed by the defendant, before
he can be stricken out of the roll." The cause was thereupon
remanded to the Circuit Court, to hear the proofs; and it was
declared that if the facts were proved as charged, it would be
amply sufficient to authorize that court to strike the defendant
from the roll, even though there had been no law in Tennessee
for the suppression of duelling.
Here, it will be observed, there was no conviction; nothing
but an indictment found in another State; and yet the Supreme
Court of Tennessee held that the court below might lawfully
proceed with the case.
In Perry v. Tie State, 3 Greene (Iowa), 550, there were
charges of misconduct as an attorney, and of perjury. The
charge was dismissed for want of certainty; but as to the charge
of false swearing, which it was contended could not be set up
without a previous conviction, the court said that a conviction
was not necessary.
In re John Percy, 36 N. Y. 651, an attorney was struck off the
roll on the ground that his general reputation was bad, that be
had been several times indicted for perjury, one or two of the
indictments being still pending, and that he was a common
mover and maintainer of suits on slight and frivolous pretexts.
The order was affirmed on appeal. Some of the offences
charged in this case were of an indictable character, and one
point raised on the appeal was, that the court has no right to
call upon an attorney to answer such charges, because it compels him to give evidence against himself. But to this the
court answered that he is not compelled to be sworn, but may
introduce evidence tending to show his innocence.
In Penobscot Bar v. .Kireball, 64 Me. 140, an attorney was

Ex PARTE WALL.

[Sup. Ct.

accused of misconduct, both in his professional character and
otherwise, obtaining money by false pretences, and the like.
He had also, many years before, been convicted of forgery of a
deposition used in court, but had been pardoned. It was held
that he was an unfit person to be an attorney, and he was
struck from the roll. In this case indictable offences of which
the party had not been regularly convicted were embraced in
the charges against him.
In Delano's Case, 58 N. H. 5, an attorney, being collector of
taxes for the town, appropriated the money to his own use, intending to return it; but failing to do so, he was struck from
the roll. The offence in this case was clearly of an indictable
character, and no conviction had been obtained against him in
a criminal proceeding.
In Matter of George W. Wool, 36 M\ich. 299, a bill in equity
having been filed against an attorney charging him with procuring a deed to himself by forgery or substitution of a paper,
and a decree having been made against him, the court entered
an order to show cause why he should not be struck from the
roll, allowing him to present affidavits in exculpation; but no
sufficient cause being shown against the rule, it was made absolute. Here was an indictable offence, and no previous conviction; yet the court, upon the evidence it had before it, struck
the party's name from the roll.
In Ex parte Walls, 64 Ind. 461, the charge was of forging
an affidavit to obtain a change of venue in a cause pending in
the court. Special proceedings were had under the statute of
Indiana, and the party was struck off the roll. On error
brought, it was objected that he should have been first regularly convicted of the crime by a prosecution on the part of the
state. The court held that this is only true when the object is
to inflict punishment, but not when it is to disbar the party,
any more than when forgery is proved as a defence in a civil
suit; that whilst a conviction would have authorized a disbarment, the proceeding to disbar might precede the criminal
prosecution. This case, it is true, was for malpractice as an
attorney, and, therefore, may not be strictly in point; but the
ground taken by the court was general, and applicable to all
cases for which an attorney may be disbarred.

Oct. 1882.]

EX PARTE WALL.

In the recent case of People v. Appleton, 15 Chicago Legal
News, 241, where the charge against an attorney was for disposing of property held by him as a trustee, and appropriating
the proceeds to his own use, but was not made out to the satisfaction of the court; it was observed, however, that whilst as a
general rule if an attorney is guilty of misconduct in his private character, and not in his official character as attorney,
relief can only be obtained by a prosecution in a proper court,
at the suit of the party injured, yet that "it is not to be held
that there are no exceptions; that there are not cases in which
an attorney's misconduct in his private capacity merely, may
be of so gross a character that the court will exercise the power
of disbarment. There is too much of authority to the contrary
to say that."
From this review of the authorities in this country it is apparent, that whilst it may be the general rule that a previous
conviction should be had before striking an attorney off the
roll for an indictable offence, committed by him when not acting in his character of an attorney, yet that the rule is not an
inflexible one. Cases may occur in which such a requirement
would result in allowing persons to practise as attorneys, who
ought, on every ground of propriety and respect for the administration of the law, to be excluded from such practice. A
criminal prosecution may fail by the absence of a witness, or
by reason of a flaw in the indictment, or some irregularity in
the proceedings; and in such cases, even in England, the proceeding to strike from the roll may be had. But other causes
may operate to shield a gross offender from a conviction of
crime, however clear and notorious his guilt may be,- a prevailing popular excitement; powerful influences brought to
bear on the public mind, or on the mind of the jury; and
many other causes which might be suggested; and yet, all the
time, the offender may be so covered with guilt, perhaps glorying in it, that it would be a disgrace to the court to be obliged
to receive him as one of its officers, clothed with all the prestige of its confidence and authority. It seems to us that the
circumstances of the case, and not any iron rule on the subject,
must determine whether, and when, it is proper to dispense
with a preliminary conviction. If, as Lord Chief Justice

EX PARTE WALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Cockburn said, the evidence is conflicting, and any doubt of
the party's guilt exists, no court would assume to proceed summarily, but would leave the case to be determined by a jury.
But where the case is clear, and the denial is evasive, there is
no fixed rule of law to prevent the court from exercising its
authority.
The provisions of the Constitution, which declare that
no
person shall be held to answer for a capital or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand
jury, and that the trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by jury, have no relation to the subject in
hand. As held by the Supreme Court of Tennessee in .f'ields
v. Te State (and the same view is expressed in other cases),
the constitutional privilege of trial by jury for crimes does not
apply to prevent the courts from punishing its officers for contempt, or from removing them in proper cases. Removal from
office for an indictable offence is no bar to an indictment. The
proceeding is in its nature civil, and collateral to any criminal
prosecution by indictment. The proceeding is not for the purpose of punishment, but for the purpose of preserving the courts
of justice from the official ministration of persons unfit to practise in them. Undoubtedly, the power is one that ought
always to be exercised with great caution; and ought never to
be exercised except in clear cases of misconduct, which affect
the standing and character of the party as an attorney. But
when such a case is shown to exist, the courts ought not to liesitate, from sympathy for the individual, to protect themselves
from scandal and contempt, and the public from prejudice, by
removing grossly improper persons from participation in the
administration of the laws. The power to do this is a rightful
one; and, when exercised in proper cases, is no violation of
any constitutional provision.
It is contended, indeed, that a summary proceeding against
an attorney to exclude him from the practice of his profession
on account of acts for which he may be indicted and tried by a
jury is in violation of the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution,
which forbids the depriving of any person of life, liberty, or
property without due process of law. But the action of the
court in cases within its jurisdiction is due process of law. It

Oct. 1882.]

EX PARTE WALL.

is a regular and lawful method of proceeding, practised from
time immemorial. Conceding that an attorney's calling or
profession is his property, within the true sense and meaning
of the Constitution, it is certain that in many cases, at least,
he may be excluded from the pursuit of it by the summary
action of the court of which he is an attorney. The extent of
the jurisdiction is a subject of fair judicial consideration. That
it embraces many cases in which the offence is indictable is
established by an overwhelming weight of authority. This
being so, the question whether a particular class of cases of
misconduct is within its scoje, cannot involve any constitutional principle.
It is a mistaken idea that due process of law requires a plenary suit and a trial by jury, in all cases where property or personal rights are involved. The important right of personal
liberty is generally determined by a single judge, on a writ of
habeas corpus, using affidavits or depositions for proofs, where
facts are to be established. Assessments for damages and benefits occasioned by public improvements are usually made by
commissioners in a summary way. Conflicting claims of creditors, amounting to thousands of dollars, are often settled by
the courts on affidavits or depositions alone. And the courts
of chancery, bankruptcy, probate, and admiralty administer
immense fields of jurisdiction without trial by jury. In all
cases, that kind of procedure is due process of law which is
suitable and proper to the iiature of the case, and sanctioned
by the established customs and usages of the courts. "Perhaps no definition," says Judge Cooley, "is more often quoted
than that given by Mr. Webster in the Dartmouth College
case: I By the law of the land is most clearly intended the general law; a law which hears before it condemns; which proceeds upon inquiry, and renders judgment only after trial,
The meaning is that every citizen shall hold his life, liberty, property, and immunities, under the protection of the
general rules which govern society.' " Cooley's Const. Lira.
353.
The question, what constitutes due process of law within the
meaning of the Constitution, was much considered by this
court in Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; and Mr.
vo. XVII.
19

EX PARTE WALL.

[Sup. Ot.

Justice Miller, speaking for the court, said: "It is not possible to hold that a party has, without due process of law, been
deprived of his property, when, as regards the issues affecting
it, he has, by the laws of the State, a fair trial in a court of justice, according to the modes of proceeding applicable to such a
case." And, referring to Jfurrayj's Lessee v. Hobolcen Land
and Improvement Co., 18 How. 272, he said: "An exhaustive
judicial inquiry into the meaning of the words ' due process of
law,' as found in the Fifth Amendment, resulted in the unanimous decision of this court, that they do not necessarily imply
a regular proceeding in a court of justice, or after the manner
of such courts."
We have seen that, in the present case, due notice was given
to the petitioner, and a trial and hearing was had before the
court, in the manner in which proceedings against attorneys,
when the question is whether they should be struck off the roll,
are always conducted.
We think that the court below did not exceed its powers in
taking cognizance of the case in a summary way, and that no
such irregularity occurred in the proceeding as to require this
court to interpose by the writ of mandamus. The writ of
mandamus is, therefore,
Refused.
MR. JUSTICE FiELD dissenting.
I am unable to concur with my associates in their disposition of this case, and I will briefly state the grounds of my
dissent.
I appreciate to the fullest extent the indignation of the district judge at the lawless proceedings of the mob in his district
in forcibly taking a prisoner from jail and putting him to
death. There is no language of reprobation too severe for such
conduct; for, however great the offence of the prisoner, the
law prescribed its punishment and appointed the officers by
whom it was to be executed. The usurpation of their duties,
and the infliction of another punishment, were themselves the
greatest of crimes, for which the actors should be held amenable to the violated laws of the State.
I join, also, with the learned justice of this court who ex-

Oct. 1882.]

EX PARTE WALL.

presses the views of the majority, in his denunciation of all
forms of lawless violence; and I agree with him that the
enormity of the offence is increased, when the violence is aided
and encouraged by an attorney, bound by his oath of office to
uphold the administration of justice in the established tribunals
of the country. Nor can the offence be palliated by the statement of counsel, that the fury of the mob had been excited by
the attempt of the victim of its violence to outrage the person
of a young female.
The question here is, not what indignation may justly be
expressed for the alleged offence of the victim, or for that of
his assailants; nor what should be done with a person thus
guilty of participating in and encouraging the lawless proceedings of the mob: but in what way is his guilt to be determined;
when does the law declare him guilty, so that the court may
upon such established guilt proceed to inflict punishment for
the offence and remove him from the bar.
I do not think that the Circuit Court of the United States
could declare the petitioner in this case guilty of a crime
against the laws of Florida upon information communicated to
its judge on the streets, and thereupon cite him to show cause
why he should not be stricken from the roll of attorneys of the
court and be disbarred from practising therein.
And though the declaration of the court, upon what was
assumed to have been the conduct of the petitioner, contained
in the recital of the order directing the citation, be treated,
contrary to its language, merely as a charge against him, and
not as a judgment upon his conduct, I cannot think that the
court had authority to formulate a charge against him of
criminal conduct not connected with his professional duties,
upon the verbal statements of others, made to its judge outside
of the court and without the sanction of an oath. And I cannot admit that upon a charge thus formulated the petitioner
could be summarily tried. In no well-ordered system of jurisprudence, by which justice is administered, can a person be
tried for a criminal offence by a court, the judge of which is
himself the accuser.
The first proceeding disclosed by the record is the following
order: -

EX PARTE WALL.

[Sup. ot.

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE U. S., SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA,

M/A.c

TERm, 1882.

"Whereas it has come to the knowledge of this court that one
J. B. Wall, an attorney of this court, did, on the sixth day of this
present month, engage in and with an unlawful, tumultuous, and
riotous gathering, he advising and encouraging thereto, to take
from the jail of Hillsborough County, and hang by the neck until
he was dead, one John, otherwise unknown, thereby showing such
an utter disregard and contempt for the law and its provisions,
which, as a sworn attorney, he was bound to respect and support,
as shows him to be totally unfitted to occupy such position: It is
hereby ordered that said J. B. Wall be cited to appear and show
cause, by eleven o'clock Wednesday, the eighth instant, why his
name should not be stricken from the roll of attorneys, and he be
disbarred and prohibited from practising herein.
"JAmsES

"TAimA,

FLORMA,

March 7, 1882.

W. LOCxE,

DistrictJudge."

How these matters came to the knowledge of the court is not
here disclosed, but in the return of the judge to the alternative
writ of mandamus from this court we are enlightened on this
point. He states that on the 6th of March, 1882, on the adjournment of the court for dinner, in passing from the courthouse he saw a person brought to the jail by two officers; that
on his return to the court-house, a little over an hour afterwards, he saw the dead body of the prisoner hanging from a
tree in front of the court-house door, whereby he became personally informed of the commission of a most serious offence
against the laws. He also states that on the same afternoon
"he was informed of the active participation in said crime of
one J. B. Wall, an attorney of said court, by an eye-witness in
whom the most implicit confidence could be placed, but -who
declined to make any charge or affidavit of such fact on account
of a fear of said Wall's influence and the local feeling it would
cause against him, the said witness; that not only from the
direct statements of eye-witnesses, but from numerous other
sources, reliable information of like import was received;
whereupon said J. B. Wall, the petitioner, was, on the said
seventh day of March, during a session of the Circuit Court of
the United States, in open court, charged in writing by the

Oct. 1882.]

EX PARTE WALL.

respondent herein, as judge, with having, with an unlawful,
tumultuous, and riotous gathering, he advising and encouraging
thereto, taken from the jail of Hillsborough County, and
hanged to a tree by the neck until he was dead, a man to the
court known only as John."
Here we have the words of the judge himself, that he acted
upon the statements of parties, whose names are not given, nor
is their language. His own conclusions as to their import,
credibility, and weight are all that- is furnished. The statements thus made to him were not evidence before the court for
any purpose whatever; and would not justify its action upon
any subject over which it has jurisdiction. Suppose that he
was called to the stand, and asked why he had made the charge
against the petitioner, and what his knowledge was on the subject. He could only have answered, "I can state nothing of
my own knowledge; I can merely repeat what others have
said to me; they decline to make any charge themselves; they
will not confront the accused; but I have implicit confidence
in their statements, though they will not verify them by oath."
And yet, upon these outside, ex parte, unsworn sayings of
others, who will not face the accused and whose words are not
given, he directs an order to be entered in the Circuit Court
reciting - not that the petitioner is charged by others, - not
that it appears by the sworn reports of eye-witnesses, - but
that "it has come to the knowledge of the court" that the
petitioner had engaged in "an unlawful, tumultuous, and riotous
gathering, he advising and encouraging" the same, to take a
person from the county jail and hang him by the neck until he
was dead, thus showing an utter disregard and contempt for the
law and its provisions, and himself to be totally unfitted to
occupy the position of an attorney of the court.
This is not a charge against the petitioner either in form or
language, but a declaration of his guilt in advance of a hearing,
founded upon what is termed "knowledge of the court." For
this declared guilt he is summoned to show cause why he
should not be disbarred. According to the return of the judge,
the recital in the order is not correct. No such matter as is
there stated ever came, in any legal way, to the knowledge of
the court. Information which he gathered in conversation

Ex

PARTE WALL.

[Sup.

.

with .others, rumors on the streets, statements communicated
outside of the court-room, secret whisperings of men who dare
not or will not speak openly and verify their statements, do not
constitute such "knowledge of the court" as to make it the
basis of judicial proceedings affecting any one's rights. Were
not this the case, no man's rights would be safe against the
wanton accusation of parties on the streets, whose stories might
reach the ear of the judge.
The petitioner appeared upon the citation, and objected to
the authority and jurisdiction of the court to issue the rule and
require him to answer it, first, because the rule did not show
that the matters there charged took place in the presence of
the court, or were brought to its knowledge by petition or complaint in writing, under oath; and, second, because he was
charged in the rule with a high crime against the laws of
Florida, not cognizable by the court, and for which, if proven,
he was liable to indictment and prosecution before the State
court.
The petitioner also denied counselling, advising, encouraging, or assisting an unlawful, tumultuous, and riotous gathering, or mob, in taking the person named from the jail of the
county and causing his death by hanging, or that he had been
guilty of any unprofessional or immoral conduct which showed
him to be unfit for the position of an attorney of the court.
The court overruled the objections, and called a witness to
prove the participation of the prisoner in the crime alleged.
The testimony of this witness, which was reduced to writing,
is contained in the record. It is to the effect that he saw the
petitioner and others go to the sheriff's house on the 6th of
March, and, having heard that a sheriff's posse had been summoned to protect the jail, he thought, by their orderly manner,
that they were the posse going for instructions; that when they
came out he heard one of the party remark, "We have got all
of you we want;" that he then thought something was wrong,
and followed them, and saw them coming out of the jail with
the prisoner; that the petitioner was with the prisoner, walked
beside him, and, witness thinkcs, had hold of him until they
crossed the fence, that after that he did not see the petitioner
any more until the matter was all over. The witness further

Oct. 1882.]

EX PARTE WALL.

testified that he could not name any man in the crowd, which
numbered over a hundred, except the sheriff; that he was
excited and did not notice who they were. He did not see the
petitioner leave the crowd, though he might have done so without the witness seeing him. Upon this uncertain, insufficient,
and inconclusive testimony, which does not show a participation of the petitioner in "advising and encouraging" the lawless proceedings, and is consistent with his opposition to them,
the judge was entirely satisfied. His language on the subject is:
" That the evidence, although of but a single witness, for
grounds already stated, was to your respondent positively conclusive beyond a reasonable doubt that said J. B. Wall had
been guilty of active participation in a most immoral and
criminal act, and a leader in a most atrocious murder, in defiance and contempt of all law and justice, and thereby shown
himself unfitted to longer retain the position of an attorney in
any court over which your respondent might have the honor
to preside."
Nothing could more plainly illustrate the wisdom of the rule
that the accuser should not be the judge of the accusation.
The judge very naturally felt great indignation at the lawless
proceedings of the mob in hanging the prisoner, and, as he
states, had heard reports inculpating the petitioner as a participant therein. His indignation, whether arising from such
reported participation or otherwise, must have possessed him
when he had the petitioner before him, for nothing else can
explain the extraordinary conclusion he reached upon the
testimony taken. That testimony shows merely a mingling of
the petitioner with the crowd engaged in the unlawful purpose; it does not necessarily show his participation in the
execution of that purpose. There was no evidence that he
encouraged the proceedings. There was no evidence as to
what he did say to the crowd. He may have advised against
their action. The witness said nothing on the subject, nor did
he see the petitioner after the crowd reached the fence. The
petitioner was not seen at the execution, nor is there any evidence that he was present; and yet, the vague testimony of
this excited witness, as to matters entirely consistent with
innocence, is held by the judge "to be positively conclusive

EX PARTE WALL.

[Sup. Ct.

beyond a reasonable doubt" that the petitioner was guilty of
active participation in a criminal act and "a leader in a most
atrocious murder."
There are some other things also in the return of the judge
Circuit
which are outside of the record of proceedings in the
Court, and inconsistent with them, as that the petitioner demanded that proof should be made of the matter charged. His
main position was that the court had no jurisdiction to require
him to answer at all, because charged in the rule with a crime
against the laws of Florida, not cognizable in that court, and
for which, if proven, he was liable to indictment and conviction
in the State court, - a position inconsistent with a demand of
proof of the charge.
not taken in the court
Objection is taken here -though
below - to the form of the petitioner's denial to what is termed
the charge of the judge, it being called by my brethren a neg.
ative pregnant. This is, indeed, a singular objection, in view
of the fact that there was, in truth, as already said, no formal
charge againt the petitioner. The court assumed, and declared
that it had come to its knowledge, that he was guilty of a public offence which unfitted him to be an attorney, and called
upon him to show cause why he should not be disbarred for it.
If the court had such knowledge a denial by him was useless,
and the taking of testimony on the subject an idle proceeding.
He might have replied to the judge who constituted the court:
"Who made you a judge to affirm my guilt, in advance of bearing, upon street rumors? I decline to answer you at all, you
having thus prejudged and condemned me." With what propriety could the court have then proceeded? What legal reason
could it have given for its action ? I am unable to perceive
that it could have given any.
Treating, however, the preannounced judgment of the court
as a charge, the answer of the petitioner might have been more
general than it was. It was sufficiently specific to meet all the
rules of pleading in criminal cases; and I do not think that the
nicety exacted in an answer to a bill of discovery in a chancery
suit was required. It was enough that the answer was a denial
of the offence alleged, and could in no way be tortured into any
admission of guilt.

Oct. 1882.]

Ex

PARTE WALL.

But apart from the consideration of the form of the petitioner's answer, or the weight to be given to the evidence of
the excited witness, I cannot assent to the doctrine that, by
virtue of any power which a court possesses over attorneys, it
can try one for a felony upon a proceeding to disbar him. The
Constitution of the United States and of every State has made
it a part of the fundamental law of the land that "no person
shall be held to answer for a capital or otherwise infamous
crime unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury,"
except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the
militia, when in actual service in time of war or public danger.
A felony is an infamous crime. No person charged therewith
can be held to answer therefor; that is, can, in any other form
of proceeding, be required to explain his conduct or vindicate
his action. This provision excludes an inquiry, and, of course,
any possible punishment for an imputed crime, except upon a
conviction under such presentment or indictment. If a party
is otherwise tried and punished, the constitutional guaranty is
violated in his person.
If one court can, upon information communicated to its
judge, in any other than a legal way, that a public offence has
been committed by an attorney, call upon him to show satisfactorily that the charge is unfounded or be disbarred, so may
all courts which have the power to admit attorneys; and, of
course, this court. And what a spectacle would be presented
if, upon reports like those in this case, or even upon written
charges, that attorneys in different parts of the country have
committed murder, burglary, forgery, larceny, embezzlement,
or some other public offence, they could be cited here to answer
summarily as to such charges without being confronted by their
accusers, without previous indictment, without trial by jury,
and, of course, without the benefit of the presumptions of innocence which accompany every one until legally convicted.
With what curious and wondering eyes would such proceedings
be watched, when A. should be summoned from one part of the
country on a charge of murder, B. from another part of the
country on a charge of burglary, C. from another part on a
charge of larceny, D. from still another on a charge of having
violated his marriage vows, and others on charges embracing

EX PARTE WALL.

[Sup. at.

different felonies! Such proceedings would be scandalous, and
would shock every one who regards with favor the guarantees
of personal rights in the Constitution. They would not and
ought not to be tolerated by the country; and yet how would
they differ from the case before us? It is no excuse to say that
the punishment inflicted upon the petitioner is not that prescribed by the law for the public offence charged, and that it is
only the latter which requires previous presentment or indictment. The Constitution declares that "no person shall be
held to answer" for any infamous offence, that is, to explain
and justify his conduct upon such a charge, except when made
by the presentment or indictment of a grand jury, without reference to the punishment that may follow on its being established. That instrument looks to the substance of things, and
not to mere forms. Its purpose is to protect every one against
wanton complaints of the commission of a public offence. It
therefore confides the power of accusation for such an offence
to a specially constituted body; and interdicts all trial, and, of
course, all punishment, except upon its formal presentation.
This interdict would be of little protection if it could be evaded
by a mere change in the extent or nature of the punishment.
In the test oath case from Missouri we have an illustration
of an attempt to evade a constitutional inhibition, and of its
futility. * That State had in 1865 adopted a new constitution,
which prescribed an oath to be taken by persons filling certain
offices and trusts and pursuing various vocations within its
limits. They were required to deny that they had done certain
things, or by act or word had manifested certain desires and
sympathies. The oath, divided into its separate parts, embraced thirty distinct affirmations respecting the past conduct
of the affiant, extending even to his words, desires, and sympathies.
Every person unable to take this oath was declared by the
Constitution incapable of holding in the State "any office of
honor, trust, or profit under its authority, or of being an officer,
councilman, director or trustee, or other manager of any corporation, public or private, now existing or hereafter established
by its authority, or of acting as a professor or teacher in any
educational institution, or in any common or other school, or of

Oct. 1882.]

EX PA.RTE 'WALL.

holding any real estate or other property in trust for the use of
any church, religious society, or congregation."
And every person, at the time the Constitution took effect,
holding any of the offices, trusts, or positions mentioned, was
required, within sixty days thereafter, to take the oath; and, if
he failed to comply with this requirement, it was declared that
his office, trust, or position should ipsofacto become vacant.
No person, after the expiration of the sixty days, was permitted, without taking the oath, "to practise as an attorney or
counsellor-at-law," nor after that period could "any person be
competent, as a bishop, priest, deacon, minister, elder, or other
clergyman, of any religious persuasion, sect, or denomination,
to teach, or preach, or solemnize marriages."
Fine and imprisonment were prescribed as a punishment for
holding or exercising any of "the offices, positions, trusts, professions, or functions" specified, without having taken the oath;
and false swearing or affirmation in taking it was declared to
be perjury, punishable by imprisonment in the penitentiary.
A priest of the Roman Catholic Church was indicted in a
Circuit Court of Missouri and convicted of the crime of teaching and preaching as a priest and minister of that religious
denomination, without having first taken the oath, and was
sentenced to pay a fine of $500, and to be committed to jail
until the same was paid. On appeal to the Supreme Court of
the State the judgment was affirmed, and the case was brought
on error to this court. It was plain that if the power existed
in the State to exact from parties this oath respecting their
past conduct, desires, and sympathies, as a condition of their
being permitted to continue in their vocations, or to hold certain trusts, it might be used, and, on occasions of excitement
to which all communities are subject, would be used to their
oppression and even ruin. The State might require such oath
for any period of their past lives, might call upon them to affirm whether they had observed the Ten Commandments, or
had discharged any particular civil or moral duty, or had entertained any particular sentiments, or desires, or sympathies,
as a condition of their being allowed to engage in one of the
ordinary pursuits of life, in a profession, trade, or business. It
might impose conditions which individuals and whole classes in

Ex PARTD WALL.

[Sup. Ct.

the community would be unable to comply with, and thus deprive them of civil and political rights. Under this form of
legislation no oppression can be named which might not have
been effected.
A large portion of the people of Missouri were unable to
take the oath. It was, therefore, contended that the clauses of
its Constitution which required priests and clergymen to take
and subscribe the oath as a condition of their being allowed to
continue in the exercise of their professions, and preach and
teach, operated upon those who could not take it as a bill of
attainder within the meaning of the provision of the Federal
Constitution prohibiting the States from passing bills of that
character. With respect to them the clauses amounted to a
legislative deprivation of their rights.
It was also contended that in thus depriving priests and
clergymen of the right to preach and teach, the clauses imposed a penalty for some acts which were innocent at the time
they were committed, and increased the penalty for other acts
which at the time constituted public offences, and in both particulars violated the provision of the Federal Constitution prohibiting the passage by the States of an ex post facto law.
On the other hand, it was contended that the provisions of
the Constitution of Missouri exacting the oath mentioned,
merely prescribed conditions upon which members of the political body might exercise their various callings; that bills of
pains and penalties, which are included under the head of bills
of attainder, and ez postfacto laws, are such as relate exclusively to crimes and their punishments; that they are in terms
acts defining and punishing crimes and designating the persons
to be affected by them, and do not bear any resemblance to the
provisions of the Constitution of Missouri.
There was much force in the objections thus urged to the
position that the clauses in the Missouri Constitution constituted a bill of attainder and an ex postfacto law; and had the
court looked to the form rather than to the substance of things,
they must have prevailed. But the court did not thus limit
its view. It regarded the constitutional guarantees as applying wherever private rights were to be protected against legislative deprivation, whatever the form of the legislation. And

Oct. 1882.]

EX PARTE WALL.

it could not perceive any substantial difference between legislation imposing upon parties impossible conditions as to past
conduct for the enjoyment of existing rights, and legislation in
terms depriving them of such rights, or imposing as a punishment for past conduct the forfeiture of those rights. It therefore adjudged the clauses of the Missouri Constitution in
question to be invalid on both grounds urged, as a bill of attainder and an ex postfacto law. They accomplished precisely
what the most formal enactments of that nature would have
done, 'and were, therefore, in like manner prohibited. "The
legal result," said the court, "must be the same, for what cannot be done directly cannot be done indirectly. The Constitution deals with substance, not shadows. Its inhibition was
levelled at the thing, not the name. It intended that the rights
of the citizen should be secure against deprivation for past conduct by legislative enactment, under any form, however disguised. If the inhibition can be evaded by the form of the
enactment, its insertion in the fundamental law was a vain and
futile proceeding."
I have been thus particular in the statement of the Cummings case, for it seems to me that the rule of construction
there applied should be extended so as to protect the citizen
from answering in any form, or being punished in any way, for
an infamous offence, except, as the Constitution prescribes, on
a presentment or indictment of a grand jury. Here, under
the form of a civil proceeding, a party is summoned to answer,
and is punished for an alleged criminal offence, to try which
the Circuit Court has confessedly no jurisdiction, and which is
in no way connected with his professional conduct. The protection of the Constitution should not be thus lost, though the
punishment be not one prescribed by statute, but one resting
in the discretion of the court. I know, of course, that this
court has, with the exception of two of its members, been
entirely changed in its personnel since the Cummings case was
decided. I am the only living member of the majority of the
court which, sixteen years ago, gave that judgment. I would
fain hope, however, that this change may not lead to a change
in the construction of clauses in the Constitution intended for
the protection of personal rights, even though its present mer-

EX PARTE WALL.

[Sup. Ct.

bers, if tken judges, might not have assented to the decision,
and however much they may be disposed to follow their own
peculiar views where rights of property only are involved. I
am of opinion that all the guarantees of the Constitution designed to secure private rights, whether of person or property,
should be broadly and liberally interpreted so as to meet and
protect against every form of oppression at which they were
aimed, however disguised and in whatever shape presented.
They ought not to be emasculated and their protective force
and energy frittered away and lost by a construction which
will leave only the dead letter for our regard when the living
spirit is gone.
What, then, are the relations between attorneys and counsellors-at-law and the courts; and what is the power which the
latter possess over them; and under what circumstances can
they be disbarred? There is much vagueness of thought on
this subject in discussions of counsel and in opinions of courts.
Doctrines are sometimes advanced upholding the most arbitrary power in the courts, utterly inconsistent with any manly
independence of the bar. The books, unfortunately, contain
numerous instances where, for slight offences, parties have
been subjected to oppressive fines, or deprived of their offices,
and, consequently, of their means of livelihood, in the most
arbitrary and tyrannical manner. The power to punish for
contempt-a power necessarily incident to all courts for the
preservation of order and decorum in their presence - was formerly so often abused for the purpose of gratifying personal
dislikes, as to cause general complaint, and lead to legislation
defining the power and designating the cases in which it might
be exercised. The act of Congress of March 2, 1831, c. 99,
limits the power of the courts of the United States in this
respect to three classes of cases: first, where there has been
misbehavior of a person in the presence of the court or so near
thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice; second,
where there has been misbehavior of any officer of the court in
his official transactions; and, third, where there has been disobedience or resistance by any officer, party, juror, witness, or
other person to any lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree, or
command of the court. The power, as thus seen, - so far as

Oct. 1882.]

Ex PARTE WALL.

the punishment of contempts is concerned, - can only be exercised by the courts of the United States to insure order and
decorum in their presence; faithfulness on the part of their
officers in their official transactions; and obedience to their
lawful orders, judgments, and process. Ex parte Robinson, 19
Wall. 505.
The power to disbar attorneys in- proper cases, though not,
perhaps, affected by this law, is not to be exercised arbitrarily
or tyrannically. Under our institutions arbitrary power over
another's lawful pursuits is not vested in any man nor in any
tribunal. It is odious wherever exhibited, and nowhere does
it appear more so than when exercised by a judicial officer
toward a member of the bar practising before him.
Attorneys and counsellors-at-law-and the two characters
are in this country generally united in the same person - are
officers of the court, admitted to be such by its order upon evidence that they possess sufficient learning to advise as to the
legal rights of parties, and to conduct proceedings in the courts
for their prosecution or defence, and that they have such fair
private characters as to insure fidelity to the interests intrusted
to their care. The order of admission, as said in the Garland
case, is the judgment of the court that they possess the requisite qualifications of learning and character, and are entitled to
appear as attorneys and counsellors and to conduct causes
therein. Thenceforth they are responsible to the court for
professional misconduct and entitled to hold their offices during good behavior. 4 Wall. 333, 387.
Their office, as was also said in the same case, is not held as
a matter of grace and favor. The right which it confers is
something more than a mere license, revocable at the pleasure
of the court. It is a right of which they can be deprived only
by its judgment for moral or professional delinquency.
The oath which every attorney and counsellor is required to
take on his admission briefly expresses his duties. It is substantially this: that he will support the Constitution of the
United States, and "conduct himself as an attorney and counsellor of the court uprightly and according to law." This implies not only obedience to the Constitution and laws, but that
he will, to the best of his ability, advise his clients as to their

EX PARTE WALL.

[Sup. Ct.

legal rights, and will discharge with scrupulous fidelity the
duties intrusted to him; that he will at all times maintain the
respect due to the courts and judicial officers; that he will conform to the rules prescribed by them for his conduct in the
management of causes; that he will never attempt to mislead
them by artifice or any false statement of fact or intentional
misstatement of the law, and will never employ any means for
the advancement of the causes confided to him except such as
are consistent with truth and honor. So long as he carries out
these requirements of his oath he will come within the rule of
"good behavior," and no complaint of his professional standing
can be made. The authority which the court holds over him
and the exercise of his profession extends so far, and so far
only, as to insure a compliance with these requirements. It is
for a disregard of them, therefore, that is, for professional delinquency, and the loss of character for integrity and trustworthiness, or, in other words, for moral delinquency, which a
disregard of them manifests, that the court will summarily act
upon his office and disbar him. In other words, the summary
jurisdiction of the court in this respect will only be exercised:
first, for misconduct of the attorney in cases and matters in
which he has been employed or consulted professionally, or
matters in which, from their nature, it must be presumed he
was employed by reason of his professional character; and,
second, for such misconduct outside of his profession as shows
the want of that integrity and trustworthiness which is essential to insure fidelity to interests intrusted to him professionally. The commission of a felony or a misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude is of itself the strongest proof of such misconduct as will justify an expulsion from the bar; but the only
evidence which the court can receive of the commission of the
offence, when it is not admitted by the party, is a record of
his conviction. Of this I shall presently speak.
When the charge against the attorney is of misconduct in
his office, and that involves, as it sometimes may, the commission of a public offence, for which he may be prosecuted criminally, the inquiry should proceed only so far as to determine
the question of professional delinquency, and he should be left
to the proper tribunals for the punishment of the crime com-

Oct. 1882.]

Ex

PARTE WALL.

mitted. And on such an inquiry no answer will be required of
him which would tend to his crimination. Thus, to illustrate,
if he has collected money for his client, and has not paid it
over, the court, upon appropriate complaint, will order him to
be cited to show cause why he should not pay it. If, upon the
citation, a sufficient reason is not given for the retention of the
money, the court will enter an order directing him to pay it
immediately or by a day designated. Should he still refuse,
he may then be disbarred for disobedience to the order and
for the professional delinquency thereby involved; but for the
offence of embezzlement or other crime, committed in the retention of the money, he will be turned over to the criminal
courts. Or, take the case suggested on the argument: should
an attorney, in the course of a trial, get into a personal collision with the opposing counsel or with a witness, and assault
him with a deadly weapon, or kill him, the court would undoubtedly require the offender to show cause why he should
not be expelled from the bar for the violence, disturbance, and
breach of the peace committed in its presence. It would be
sufficient to justify expulsion that he had so far forgotten the
proprieties of the place and the respect due to the court as to
engage in a violent assault in its presence. But for the trial
of the offence of committing a deadly assault, or for the homicide, he would be turned over to the criminal courts. Or, take
another case mentioned on the argument, where an attorney
has presented a false affidavit, or represented as genuine a fictitious paper. The use of such documents, knowing their character, is a fraud upon the court, an attempt to deceive it, and
constitutes such professional misconduct as to justify the imposition of a heavy fine upon him or his temporary suspension
or expulsion fr6m the bar, without reference to the materiality
of the contents of the false affidavit or of the fictitious paper;
but for the crimes involved in their use he should be sent to
the proper tribunals, because he cannot be tried therefor, on a
motion to punish him for a contempt or to disbar him.
It is because of this limitation upon the extent of judicial
inquiry into such matters that a proceeding for purely professional misconduct against an attorney may be taken in any
way which will sufficiently apprise him of the grounds upon
voL. xvii.

20

EX PARTE WALL.

[Sup. .

which it is founded, and afford him an opportunity to be
heard. It is not as thus limited a criminal proceeding in any
proper sense, requiring full and formal allegations with the
precision of an indictment. As said in BandaZl v. Brigham,
where a letter of a party defrauded, laid before a grand jury
and communicated by its direction to the court, was the foundation of proceedings against an attorney: " Such proceedings
are often instituted upon information developed in the progress
of a cause, or from what the court learns of the conduct of the
attorney from its own observation. Sometimes they are moved
by third parties upon affidavit; and sometimes they are taken
by the court upon its own motion. All that is requisite to
their validity is that when not taken for matters occurring in
open court, in the presence of the judges, notice shall be given
to the attorney of the charges made, and opportunity afforded
him for explanation and defence. The manner in which the
proceeding shall be conducted, so that it be without oppression
or unfairness, is a matter of judicial regulation." 7 Wall. 523,
540. The objection here is that this recognized limitation
upon judicial inquiry in such cases is exceeded, and the civil
proceeding is made the means of inflicting punishment for a
criminal offence in no way connected with the party's professional conduct.
When the proceeding to disbar an attorney is taken for misconduct outside of his profession, the inquiry should be confined to such matters, not constituting indictable offences, as
may show him unfit to be a member of the bar; that is, as not
possessing that integrity and trustworthiness which will insure
fidelity to the interests intrusted to him professionally, and to
the inspection of any record of conviction against him for a
felony or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude. It is not
for every moral offence which may leave a stain upon character that courts can summon an attorney to account. Many
persons, eminent at the bar, have been chargeable with moral
delinquencies which were justly a cause of reproach to them;
some have been frequenters of the gaming-table, some have
been dissolute in their habits, some have been indifferent to
their pecuniary obligations, some have wasted estates in riotous
living, some have been engaged in broils and quarrels disturb-

Oct. 1882.]

EX PARTE WALL.

ing the public peace; but for none of these things could the
court interfere and summon the attorney to answer, and if his
conduct should not be satisfactorily explained, proceed to disbar him. It is only for that moral delinquency which consists
in a want of integrity and trustworthiness, and renders him an
unsafe person to manage the legal business of others, that the
courts can interfere and summon him before them. He is disbarred in such case for the protection both of the court and

of the public.
A conviction of a felony or a misdemeanor involving moral
turpitude implies the absence of qualities which fit one for an
office of trust, where the rights and property of others are concerned. The record of conviction is conclusive evidence on
this point. Such conviction, as already said, can follow only
a regular trial upon the presentment or indictment of a grand
jury. It cannot follow from any proceeding of the court on a
motion to disbar, for the reason already given, that no one can
be required to answer for such an offence except in one way.
If a party indicted is, upon trial, acquitted, the court cannot
proceed to retry him for the offence upon such a motion. He
may answer, after acquittal, that he never committed the offence, and that no tribunal can take any legal proceeding
against him on the assumption that he had been wrongfully
acquitted. And what the court cannot do after acquittal it
cannot do by such a proceeding before trial. If the court,
after acquittal, can still proceed for the alleged offence, as a
majority of my brethren declare it may, and call upon him to
show that he is not guilty or be disbarred, there is a defect
in our Constitution and laws which has, up to this day, remained undiscovered. Hitherto it has always been supposed
that the record of acquittal of a public offence, after a trial by
a jury, was conclusive evidence, at all times and in all places,
of the party's innocence. This doctrine, until to-day, has been
supposed to be immovably embedded in our jurisprudence.
There are many cases in the-books where the view I have
taken of the authority of the court over attorneys and counsellors-at-law is recognized and acted upon. In a case in the
Supreme Court of New Jersey, 2 Hals. (N. J.) 162, reported
without a name out of respect to the friends of the party im-

EX PARTE WALL.

[Sup. OL

plicated, an application was made on behalf of members of the
bar for a rule that a certain attorney show cause why his name
should not be stricken from the rolls, upon an allegation that
he had been guilty of larceny. The moving party stated in
his application that it was a matter of notoriety that the attorney had purloined books, to a considerable amount, from persons who were at the time in court and ready, when called
upon, to substantiate the charge. The counsel, therefore, on
behalf of members of the bar, called upon the court to relieve
them from the reproach of having the man attached to their
profession, and from the disgrace of being compelled, in their
professional duties, to have intercourse with one with whom
they would be ashamed to associate in private life; and that
the court had undoubtedly the power to grant the rule, for, as
it was essential to the admission of an attorney that he should
be of good moral character, it must be equally essential that
he should continue to be such. But the Chief Justice said:
"The offence of which it is alleged this man has been guilty is
neither a contempt of court nor does it fall within the denomination of malpractice. It would appear to me, therefore, that
he must be first convicted of the crime by a jury of his countrymen before we can proceed against him for such an offence;
for, suppose he should be brought to the bar and should say he
was not guilty, we could not try the fact."
The case was then taken under advisement, and at a subsequent day the court said, speaking by the Chief Justice: "We
have reflected upon this case, and do not see how we can do
anything in it, because the court seems to be confined to cases
of malpractice or to crimes which are in the nature of crimen
falsi, and of which there has been a conviction." Justice
Ford, of the court, added: "An attorney may be struck off
the roll, first, for a breach of the rules of the court; second, for
breach of any of his official duties; third, for all such crimes
and misdemeanors as affect his moral character. But in this
third class of cases we cannot proceed in the ordinary way;
there ought always to be a previous conviction before this court
can interfere. All the cases cited sanction this distinction,
except the case from the District of Columbia, which is anomalous." The rule was, therefore, refused.

Oct. 1882.]

EX PARTE WALL.

In Ex parte Steinman and .fensel, 95 Pa. St. 220, the parties, members of the bar of Lancaster County, in Pennsylvania,
were editors of a newspaper published in the county. In one
of its numbers an article appeared which charged that the judge
of the Court of Quarter Sessions of the county had decided
a case wrongfully from motives of political partisanship. The
court thereupon sent for the parties, and on their appearance
they admitted that they were editors of the paper and that as
such they were responsible for the publication. The court
then entered a rule upon them to show cause why they should
not be disbarred and their names stricken from the roll of attorneys for misbehavior in their offices. To this rule they
answered, setting up, among other things, that if the charge
was that they had published a libellous article, it was that they
had committed an indictable offence, not in the presence of
the court, or while acting as its officers, and therefore could
not be called upon to answer the rule until they should have
been tried and convicted, according to law, for the offence; and
that the court was not competent to determine in that form of
proceeding that they did unlawfully and maliciously publish,
out of court, a libel upon the court, and to bear and determine
disputed questions of fact involving the motives of the parties
and the official conduct of the court. The rule, however, was
made absolute, and the names of the parties were ordered to be
stricken from the roll of attorneys. They then took the case
on writ of error to the Supreme Court of" the State, where
the judgment was reversed, and it was ordered that the parties
be restored to the bar. Chief Justice Sharswood, in delivering the opinion of the court, said: "No question can be made of the power of a court to strike
a member of the bar from the roll for official misconduct in or
out of court. By the seventy-third section of the act of April
14, 1834, it is expressly enacted that 'if any attorney-at-law
shall misbehave himself in his office of attorney he shall be
liable to suspension, removal from office, or to such other penalties as have heretofore been allowed in such cases by the laws
of this Commonwealth.' We do not mean to say - for the case
does not call for such an opinion - that there may not be cases
of misconduct not strictly professional which would clearly

EX PARTE WALL.

[Sup. Ot.

show a person not to be fit to be an attorney, nor fit to associate with honest men. Thus, if he was proved to be a thief,
a forger, a perjurer or guilty of other offences of the crimen
falsi. But no one, we suppose, will contend that for such an
offence he can be summarily convicted and disbarred by the
court without a formal indictment, trial, and conviction by a
jury, or upon confession in open court. Whether a libel is an
offence of such a character may be a question, but certain it is
that if the libel in this case had been upon a private individual,
or upon a public officer, such even as the district attorney, the
court could not have summarily convicted the defendants and
disbarred them." p. 237.
A similar doctrine obtains in the courts of England. Thus,
in a case in 5 Barn. & Adol. 1088, the Solicitor-General of
England moved the Court of King's Bench for a rule calling on
two attorneys of the court to show cause why they should not
be struck off the roll, on affidavits charging them with professional misconduct in certain pecuniary transactions. Lord
Denman, the Chief Justice, replied: "The facts stated amount
to an indictable offence. Is it not more satisfactory that the
case should go to a trial? I have known applications of this
kind, after conviction, upon charges involving professional misconduct; but we should be cautious of putting parties in a situation where, by answering, they might furnish a case against
themselves, on an indictment to be afterwards preferred. On
an application calling upon an attorney to answer the matters
of an affidavit, it is not usual to grant the rule if an indictable
offence is charged." The court, however, desired the SolicitorGeneral to see if any precedent could be found of such an
application having been granted. The Solicitor-General afterwards stated that he had been unable to find any, and the rule
was discharged. My brethren are mistaken in supposing that
in this case the attorneys were required to answer under oath
the charges made.
In re -,
3 Nev. & P. 389, a motion was made to the Court
of Queen's Bench to strike an attorney off the roll on an
affidavit alleging a distinct case of perjury by him. The attorney bad sworn to the sum of 374 as the expenses of witnesses, which was reduced before the master to 47. It was

Oct. 1882.]

EX PARTE WALL.

contended that the court could exercise its summary jurisdiction on the ground of the perjury. But the Chief Justice replied: "Would not an indictment for perjury lie upon these
facts? We are not in the habit of interposing in such a case,
unless there is something amounting to an admission on the
part of the attorney which would render the interposition of 4
jury unnecessary." The moving counsel answered that there
was enough in the affidavit to show a distinct case of perjury,
but that there was no admission. The rule was, therefore,
refused.
To the same purport are numerous other adjudications, and
their force is not weakened by the circumstance that it is also
held that it is no objection to the exercise of the summary jurisdiction of the court that the conduct constituting the delinquency, for which disbarment is moved, may subject the party
to indictment. When such is the case he is not required to
answer the affidavits charging the official delinquency, for no
one can be compelled )to criminate himself, and the court confines its inquiry strictly to such acts as are inconsistent with
the attorney's duty in his profession. It looks only to the professional conduct of the attorney, and acts upon that.
In Stephens v. Hill, which was before the Court of Exchequer, a distinction was drawn between the misconduct of an
attorney outside of a proceeding in court which might subject
him to an indictment, and such misconduct committed by him
in a proceeding in court. For the former no motion to disbar
would be entertained; for the latter the motion would be
heard. There an attorney for the defendants had persuaded
a material witness for the plaintiff to absent himself from the
trial of the cause, and had undertaken to indemnify him for
any damage he might sustain for so doing. Upon affidavits
disclosing this matter, application was made to disbar the attorney. It was objected that the court would not exercise its
summary jurisdiction when the misconduct charged amounts
to an indictable offence, as was the conspiracy in which the
attorney was engaged. But the Chief Baron, Lord Abinger,
answered that he never understood that an attorney might not
be struck off the roll for misconduct in a cause inwhich he was
an attorney merely because the offence imputed to him was of

EX PARTE WALL.

[SLIP. Ct.

such a nature that he might have been indicted for it; that so
long as he had been in Westminster Hall he had never heard
of such a rule, though the court would not require the attorney
to answer the affidavits. "If, indeed," said the Chief Baron,
speaking for the court, "a case should occur where an attorney
has been guilty of some professional misconduct, for which
the court by its summary jurisdiction might compel him to do
justice, and at the same time has been guilty of something indictable in itself, but not arising out of the cause, the court
would not inquire into that with a view of striking him off the
roll, but would leave the party aggrieved to his remedy by a
criminal prosecution." And, again, "1Where, indeed, the attorney is indicted for some matter not connected with the practice of his profession of an attorney, that also is a ground for
striking him off the roll, although in that case it cannot be
done until after conviction by a jury." 10 Mee. & W. 28, 32,
33. The conduct of the attorney in that case tended to defeat
the administration of justice, and was grossly dishonorable.
He had employed for the success of his cause means inconsistent with truth and honor. He was, therefore, rightly disbarred
without reference to his liability to a criminal prosecution for
his conduct.
There is no case I have been able to find, after a somewhat
extended examination of the reports, where, for an indictable
offence, wholly distinct from the attorney's professional conduct, the commission of which was not admitted, he has been
compelled, in advance of trial and conviction, to show cause
why he should not be disbarred, except one in Tennessee for
accepting a challenge to fight a duel and killing his antagonist.
Smith v. The State, 1 Yerg. (Tenn.) 228. This case is exceptional, and finds no support in the decisions of the courts of
other States. There is no case at all like the one at bar to b&
found in the reports of the courts of England or of any of the
States of the Union.
In the numerous cases cited in the opinion of my brethren,
the matter which was the subject of complaint, and the ground
of the action of the court, related to the conduct of the party
in his professional business or in business connected with or
growing out of his profession. Thus, the advertisement of an

Oct. 1882.]

EX PAP.TE WALL.

attorney that he could procure divorces for causes not known
to the law, without publicity, or reference to the parties' residence; colluding with a wife to manufacture evidence to procure a divorce; the misapplication by him of funds collected;
his bribery of witnesses, hiring them to keep out of the way,
or to disregard a subpcena; his falsely personating another in
legal proceedings; instituting suits without authority; knowingly taking insufficient security; forging an affidavit to
change a venue; substituting the name of his client for his
own in an affidavit to procure alimony; altering a letter to a
judge in order to secure the allowance of bail; attempting to
make an opposing attorney drunk, in order to obtain an advantage of him on the trial of a cause; obtaining money from a
client by false representations respecting the latter's title to
lands, and advances for taxes; and many other like matters,
which operated as a fraud upon the court and tended to deceive
it, and were inconsistent with professional honor and integrity,
were very properly considered as sufficient grounds for temporary suspension or absolute expulsion from the bar. And in
this class of cases we sometimes find objections were taken that
the offences charged subjected the attorney to liability for indictment, and for that reason should not be considered; and it
was in answer to such objections that language was used which
apparently conflicts with the views I have expressed, but not
really so when read in connection with the facts. In those
cases the conduct of the attorney, even when furnishing ground
for indictment, was, independently of its criminal character,
open to consideration on a motion to disbar, so far as it affected
him professionally; and so it was said that it was no objection
to such consideration that he might have been also indicted for
the offence committed,- language which can have no application where the offence, as in this case, had no connection with
the party's professional conduct.
In illustration of this statement I w'ill make a brief reference
to some of the cases cited by my brethren and upon which
they seem chiefly to rely. That of Stephens v. Hill, in the
Court of Exchequer, already explained, confirms what I have
said. There, while holding that the fact that the matter complained of might subject the attorney to an indictment would

Ex PARTE WALL.

[Sup. Ct.

not prevent an inquiry into it, so far as it affected his professional conduct, Lord Abinger takes particular pains to say, as
appears from the quotation from his opinion which I have
given, that where the matter is not connected with the practice of the attorney's profession, though it might be ground for
striking him from the roll, "in that case it cannot be done
until after conviction by a jury."
In Be Blake, 3 El. & El. 34, the court held that its summary jurisdiction over its attorneys is not limited to cases in
which they have been guilty of misconduct, such as amounts
to an indictable offence. or arises in the ordinary course of
their professional practice, but extends to all cases of gross
misconduct on their part, in any matter in which they may,
from its nature, be fairly presumed to have been employed
in consequence of their professional character. In that case
money had been lent to an attorney, previously known and
employed as such, upon his note, and a deed of assignment
of a mortgage on an estate in Ireland, by which a greater
amount was secured to him. The estate getting into the Irish
Encumbered Estates Court, the attorney borrowed the deed
from his creditor for the purpose, as alleged, of supporting his
claim in that court, but in reality in order to obtain the payment of the amount secured to him. Having established his
right to that payment, he returned the deed to the creditor,
and afterwards received the whole amount secured and appropriated it to his own use. It is with reference to these facts
that Chief Justice Cockburn uses the language quoted by my
brethren. He said that although Blake applied to the lender
in the first instance, as an attorney, he thought the transaction
had ultimately resolved itself into a mere loan between them
as individuals. But the transaction had evidently grown out
of their former relation as attorney and client. Mr. Justice
Crompton, in concurring with the Chief Justice, said: " In
the present case; I canno" say that Blake's fraud was not committed in a matter connected with his professional character.
If he did not act in it as an attorney, he at all events took advantage of his professional position to deceive Beevirs" (the
lender).
In Re Hill, Law Rep. 3 Q. B. 543, an attorney, acting as a

Ot. 1882.]

Ex

PARTE WALL.

clerk to a firm of attorneys, in completing the sale of certain
property, received the balance of the purchase-money and appropriated it to his own use. On affidavits stating the facts, a
motion was made to strike him off the rolls. He admitted
the misappropriation, and was accordingly suspended for twelve
months. Said Chief Justice Cockburn: "In this case, if the
delinquent had been proceeded against criminally upon the
facts admitted by him, it is plain that he would have been
convicted of embezzlement, and upon that conviction being
brought before us, we should have been bound to act. If there
had been a conflict of evidence upon the affidavits, that might
be a very sufficient reason why the court should not interfere until the conviction had taken place; but here we have
the person against whom the application is made admitting
the facts." It is difficult to see the pertinency of this decision to the position taken by my brethren. These two cases
are, in the language used, the strongest to be found in the
reports on that side; but their facts give it no strength whatever.
In Penobscot Bar v. Kirnball, 64 Me. 140, the attorney had
been convicted of forging a deposition used by him in a suit
against his wife for a divorce; and though pardoned for the
crime, the fraud upon the court remained, and for that and for
other disreputable practices and professional misconduct, rendering him "unfit and unsafe to be intrusted with the powers,
duties, and responsibilities of the legal profession," he was
disbarred.
In Delano's Case, 58 N. H. 5, where an attorney was disbarred by the Supreme Court of New Hampshire for wrongfully appropriating to his own use money of a town received
by him as a collector of taxes, the commission of the offence
was admitted. This is evident from the statement of the court'
in its opinion that "he and his wife and family did what they
could to make good the loss to the town, but with only partial

success."
In Perry v. The State, 3 Greene (Iowa), 550, the false
swearing charged as one of the grounds of complaint against
the attorney was committed in a cause managed by him, in
which he voluntarily appeared as a witness, thus practising a

EX PARTE WALL.

[Sup. Ct.

fraud upon the court by employing to sustain his cause means
inconsistent with truth and honor.
In Ex parte Walls, 64 Ind. 461, the attorney had forged an
affidavit to obtain a change of venue, and had thus grossly imposed upon the court. For this imposition, independently of
the crime committed, he was properly disbarred.
In -Exparte Burr, 2 Cranch C. C. 379, the charges against
the attorney were for malpractice in his profession, in advising
a person in jail, who was either a recognized witness or a defendant for whom some person was special bail, to run away;
instituting suits against parties, and appearing for parties without authority; bringing vexatious and frivolous suits, many of
them for persons utterly insolvent; purchasing a lot at a trustee's sale of an insolvent's estate under unfair circumstances;
making fictitious claims and bringing suits with a view to extort money; and taking a bill of sale from one about to be
distrained for rent to prevent such distress. These charges
having been sustained, the attorney was rightly suspended
from practice for one year.
In Be John Percy, 36 N. Y. 651, there were several charges
against the attorney, such as that his general reputation was
bad; that he had been several times indicted for perjury, one
or more of which indictments were pending; that he was a
common mover and maintainer of suits on slight and frivolous
pretexts; and that his personal and professional reputation had
been otherwise impeached in a trial at the circuit. But the
court appears to have based its action upon the character of
the attorney as a vexatious mover of suits on frivolous grounds.
"He was crowding the calendar," said the court, "with vast
numbers of libel suits in his own favor, and in the habit of
indicating additional libel suits upon the answers to those previously brought by him. In one instance, at least, he had sued
his client in a justice's court, and when beaten upon trial, instead of appealing from the judgment he commenced numerous
other suits against him in different forms for the same cause,
when he.must have known that the demand was barred by the
first judgment rendered. The only inquiry is whether, in such
a case, the court has the power to protect the public by preventing such persons from practising as attorneys and counsellors

Oct. 1882.]

EX PARTE WALL.

in the courts of the State, and by that means harass its citizens." And the court held that it had the power under a
special statute of the State authorizing the removal or suspension of attorneys and counsellors, when guilty of any deceit,
malpractice, or misdemeanor; and that its power was not limited to cases where such deceit, malpractice, or misdemeanor
was practised or committed in the exercise of the profession
only, but under the statute extended to cases where there was
general bad character or misconduct.
None of these cases, as is manifest from the statement I have
made, covers that of an indictable offence, wholly distinct from
the attorney's professional conduct. None of them countenances the extraordinary authority of the courts over attorneys
and counsellors asserted by my brethren. And, indeed, if the
law be that a Circuit Court of the United States, upon whisperings in the ear of one of its judges on the streets, or upon information derived from rumor, or in some other irregular way,
that an attorney has committed a public offence, having no
relation to the discharge of his professional duties, can summon
him to answer for the offence in advance of trial or conviction
and summarily punish him, it is time the law was changed by
statute. Such a power cannot be safely intrusted to any tribunal. It might be exercised under the excitement of passion
and prejudice, as the records of courts abundantly show. Its
maintenance would tend to repress all independence on the
part of the bar. Mlen of high honor would hesitate to join a
profession in which their conduct might be subjected to investigation, censure, and punishment from imputations and charges
thus secretly made.
Seeing that this must be the inevitable result of such an unlimited power of the court over its attorneys, my brethren are
careful to express the opinion that it should seldom be exercised, when the offence charged against the attorney is indictable, until after trial and conviction, unless its commission is
admitted.
But the possession of the power being conceded, and its exercise being discretionary, there is in the hands of an unscrupulous, vindictive, or passionate judge, means of oppression and
cruelty which should not be allowed in any free government.

EX PARTE WALL.

[Sup. ot.

To disbar an attorney is to inflict upon him a punishment of
the severest character. He is admitted to the bar only after
years of study. The profession may be to him the source of
great emolument. If possessed of fair learning and ability, he
may reasonably expect to receive from his practice an income
of several thousand dollars a year, - equal to that derived
from a capital of one or more hundred thousand dollars. To
disbar him having such a practice is equivalent to depriving
him of this capital. It would often entail poverty upon himself, and destitution upon his family. Surely the tremendous
power of inflicting such a punishment should never be permitted to be exercised unless absolutely necessary to protect
the court and the public from one shown by the clearest
legal proof to be unfit to be a member of an honorable profession.
To disbar an attorney for. an indictable offence not connected
with his professional conduct, before trial and conviction, is
also to inflict an additional wrong upon him. It is to give the
moral weight of the court's judgment against him upon the
trial on an indictment for that offence.
I am of opinion, therefore, that the prayer of the petitioner
should be granted, and a peremptory mandamus directed to the
Circuit Court to vacate the order of expulsion and restore him
to the bar. The writ is the appropriate remedy in a case
where the court below, in disbarring an attorney, has exceeded
its jurisdiction. Ex parts Bradleyj, 7 Wall. 364; Ez parte
Robinson, 19 id. 505.

