Oct. 1882.]

EMBRY V. PALME1L

currency. Gregory v. 11forris, 96 U. S. 619. As there is no
such difference, a general judgment for the amount due is all
that is necessary. The amount*of the debt was always a fixed
sum in pounds sterling. The provision for the estimation of
the value of this debt in legal-tender currency was, in our opinion, a regulation of the mode of collection, and not a change in
the amount of the obligation. As promptness was required in
the payment of taxes, and the amount to be paid in currency
would not ordinarily exceed the value of the coin which was
due, it was thought proper by the government to require its
officers to make collections in currency. For that reason it
was provided that in making out the tax-lists the amount necessary to discharge coin taxes in currency should be set down,
rather than the amount of the coin that was owing. In this
way there would be less opportunity for confusion in the accounts between the government and its officers.
As upon this application we have had the benefit of a printed
brief by the Solicitor-General on behalf of the United States,
and upon full consideration are satisfied that the judgment as it
stands is right, notwithstanding the claim that is now made,
the application for a rehearing is
.Denied.

EMrBRY V. PALMER.
1. The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia is a court of the United
States, and its judgment, when suit is brought thereon in any State of the
Union, is, under the legislation of Congress, conclusive upon the defendant,
except for such cause as would be sufficient to set it aside in the courts of
the district.
2. A. recovered judgment in that court against B. and C., who, when sued thereon
in a State court, filed their bill to enjoin the collection of so much thereof
as they claimed was in excess of the amount due on the original cause of
action, and alleged, as a ground of relief, matter available as a defence in
the action at law, which they were not prevented from setting up by accident, or by the fraud of A., unconnected with the negligence of themselves
or agents. The court perpetually enjoined A. from suing on the judgment
on their paying into court that amount. They did so, and A. received it.
The decree was affirmed by the court of last resort in the State. .Udd,
1. That, according to the law then in force in the District of Columbia, the

EMBRY V. PALMER.

[Sup. Ct.

bill not being sufficient to authorize the relief granted, the decree does not
give the required effect to the judgment, and this court has jurisdiction to
re-examine it on a writ of error. 2. That A., by accepting the amount so'
paid, is not estopped from prosecuting that writ.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Errors of the State of Connecticut.
James H. Embry, administrator of Robert J. Atkinson, deceased, brought, in January, 1872, his action in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, against Stanton and Palmer,
to recover compensation for professional services alleged to
have been rendered, in their behalf and at their request, by his
intestate, in prosecuting and recovering for them the amount
of certain claims in their favor against the United States. In
this action they appeared and defended, and judgment was rendered against them upon a verdict fol $9,185.18. Upon a writ
of error, issued out of this court, this judgment was affirmed,
upon grounds which appear in the report of the case. Stanton
v. Embry, 93 U. S. 548.
Subsequently, in 1877, Embry brought his action upon this
judgment against the defendants, in the Superior Court for
New London County, Connecticut, where they resided, in
order to obtain judgment and execution thereof in that State.
Thereupon they filed their petition in equity in the same court,
the object and prayer of which were to obtain a perpetual injunction, restraining him from prosecuting his action upon that
judgment, or in any manner enforcing it against them, upon
their payment of $2,296.25, which they alleged was as much as
he was equitably entitled to on account of the causes of action,
on which the judgment had been rendered.
The grounds of relief alleged in this petition may be shortly
but sufficiently stated, as follows, viz.: That the claim in question was for collecting from the United States the sum of
$45,925.91, under a special written agreement for a compensation to Atkinson of five per cent on that amounit, the existence
of which was well known to Embry when he brought his suit
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia; that when
he, as administrator of Atkinson, first presented to Stanton
and Palmer the account for payment, it was for $2,296.29,
being at that rate; that they, claiming to have a good defence

Oct. i882.]

EMBRY V. PALMER.

against it, declined to pay it, when he thereupon brought suit
for that amount, in Connecticut, in 1871, which he discontinued in 1872, and, during its pendency, brought the action
in which the judgment complained of was rendered, in which
be ignored the special agreement, and sued upon a quantum
vieruit; that Palmer, one of the defendants, at the time of
the trial was absent from the District of Columbia, and was
not notified of the day of trial in time to be present; that
Stanton, though present in Washington at the time, was unable to attend the trial on account of sickness; that since the
trial Stanton, on examination, had found among his papers two
letters from Atkinson, in which the latter expressly acknowledged the existence of the special contract for fees at five per
cent, as claimed, but they were discovered too late for use on
the trial; and that Embry, in suppressing his knowledge of the
existence of this contract, and in procuring a judgment for a
larger sum, was guilty of fraud, which made it inequitable in
him to enforce the judgment to its full extent.
A general demurrer to this petition, reserved to the Supreme
Court of Errors of Connecticut for its advice, was overruled,
that court being of opinion that the petition was sufficient.
Its decision is reported in 46 Conn. 65, treating the case made
in the petition as one of fraud in procuring an unjust judgment
admitted by the demurrer.
Embry then filed his answer to the petition, in which he
denies that he made out the account as originally presented at
the rate of five per cent on the amount collected, to conform to
any agreement between the parties, but because he found from
Atkinson's books that he had charged at that rate in other
cases, and without considering the difference of value in the
services rendered in them; and that Atkinson kept no copies
of the letters written to the petitioners. He claims that the
question, whether there was any contract between the parties,
and if so, what were its terms, was fully tried and finally decided in the action, which resulted in the judgment complained
of, and which he sets up as an estoppel. He denies that he
then or at any time knew of any contract between the parties
as to fees, and claims that if the petitioners failed in that action to substantiate a defence, it was through their own laches,
and not by reason of any fraud on his part.

EmBRY V. PALMER.

[Sup. Or.

In accordance with the practice in that State, the cause was
referred to a committee, whose report of the facts constitutes
part of the record, from which the following extract is taken :"At [the time of] the trial of this case at Washington
neither Stanton nor Palmer was present in court. Palmer was
at Stonington; his attendance might have been secured by
reasonable diligence, if such attendance had been deemed very
important. Stanton was ill at his hotel in Washington,- too
ill to attend the trial.: His counsel asked for a postponement
on that account; but no affidavit was offered in support of the
motion, and it was denied. The petitioners' counsel appears
to have been content to proceed with the trial in the absence
of his clients. He had full and, as it turned out, undue confidence in the legal defences, which appear by the record to
have been set up at the trial, and took it for granted that in
no event could more be recovered than $2,296.29. The letters
of Atkinson of February 18, 1870, and May 7, 1870, recognizing the special agreement for five per cent on claim D, were
not in Washington at the trial there; they were received by
Stanton, the active partner, at a time when his mind was much
depressed; they were stored for safe keeping at his home in
Stonington, Connecticut, and the contents had escaped his recollection; they were not found by him until after the trial
and disposal of the case at the general term.
"After the commencement of the suit at Washington he
made search for all letters and papers relating to the case, and
placed in possession of his counsel such as he found; and he
then supposed that he had found and placed in the hands of
counsel all the letters and papers pertaining to the matters in
suit. As bearing on the question how it happened that these
letters escaped the recollection of Stanton, it appears that for
several reasons the attention of the petitioners was not alive
to the importance of being prepared at the trial in Washington
with the proof of the special agreement which the letters furnished: 1. Because the petitioners took it for granted that
the full extent of the plaintiff's claim at the trial would be
$2,296.29, that being the amount of the claim D presented
through Mr. Pratt; and it did not occur to them that a larger
amount might be claimed under the quantum meruit count.

Oct. 1882.]

EMBRY V. PALMER.

2. Because their counsel had undue confidence in legal defences
against the entire demand, and therefore did not apprehend
the full importance to the interests of his clients of being prepared with proof of the special agreement.
"As to specification 7th in the petition, Atkinson, while
living, had full knowledge that the amount due him was but
$2,296.29, on a special contract for that amount, and he, if living, could not, with a good conscience, have presented a claim
for a greater amount. Embry, the administrator, knew that
Stanton and Palmer claimed a special contract, and was willing
before trial was brought to settle on that basis; but his claim in
court on a quantum neruit was not on his part an intentional
suggestio falsi. He did not know that the claim was unfounded;
the full proof of the special agreement was not in his possession, and had not been fully brought to his knowledge."
What decree should be passed in the cause upon this report
was reserved for the action of the Supreme Court of Errors;
which court, after argument, advised that the prayer of the
petition be granted, on condition that the petitioners pay to
the respondent the sum of $2,296.29, within a reasonable time
to be fixed, with interest thereon from March 10, 1871, which
was accordingly so ordered; and the said sum of money having
thereupon been paid by the petitioners to the attorney of the
respondent, and received by him, with the interest thereon, it
was ordered and decreed by the Supreme Court that he be
enjoined, under a penalty of $20,000, payable to them, to abstain and desist from the further prosecution of his suit upon
the judgment, and from instituting any other suit or action
thereon, or from executing or in any manner enforcing the same
against them.
Proceedings in error were taken in due form to review this
judgment in the Supreme Court of Errors of the State, it being
assigned for error "1that the decree is in contravention of art.
4, sect. 1, of the Constitution of the United States, and sect.
905, c. 17, tit. 13, of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
in that it enjoins the prosecution of a suit on a judgment of
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia," and "that
the decree enjoins the collection of a judgment of a court of the
United States."

EMBRY V. PALMIER.

[Sup. Ct.

The opinion of the Supreme Court of Errors in passing upon
the case as presented by the report of the committee, and advising as to the decree to be rendered thereon, is reported in
Stanton v. Embry, 46 Conn. 595.
The final decree entered in pursuance thereof, and affirmed
by that court, is now, by writ of error, brought here by Embry
for review.
A r. _Edward Lander and 21r. Amos L. Merriman for the
plaintiff in error.
21r. Jeremiah Halsey and Mr. Charles W. Hornor for the
defendants in error.
MR..

JUSTICE

MATTHEiws, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
A suggestion is made in argument that Embry is estopped to
prosecute this writ to the reversal of the decree below, because
it appears that the amount of money ordered by it to be paid
to him as a condition of relief granted has been accepted by him.
It is said that this is a release of errors. Without entering
upon a discussion of the general question, it is sufficient for the
present purpose to say that no waiver or release of errors, operating as a bar to the further prosecution of an appeal or writ of
error, can be implied, except from conduct which is inconsistent
with the claim of a right to reverse the judgment or decree,
which it is sought to bring into review. If the release is not
expressed, it can arise only upon the principle of an estoppel.
The present is not such a case. The amount awarded, paid, and
accepted constitutes no part of what is in controversy. Its acceptance by the plaintiff in error cannot be construed into an
admission that the decree he seeks to reverse is not erroneous;
nor does it take from the defendants in error anything, on the
reversal of the decree, to which they would otherwise be entitled ; for they cannot deny that this sum, at least, is due and
payable from them to him. But in every point of view the
objection is met and answered by the decision of this court in
the case of United States v. -Dashliel,3 Wall. 688.
The jurisdiction of the court invoked by this writ of error is
conferred by sect. 709, Rev. Stat., it being a case in which a
title or right is claimed under an authority exercised under the

Oct. 1882.]

EMBRY v. PALMER.

United States, and the decision of the State court being in
denial of the title or right so asserted. It was decided in
_Dupasseur v. Bochereau, 21 Wall. 130, that such a question
is undoubtedly raised whenever "a State court refuses to give
effect to the judgment of a court of the United States rendered
upon the point in dispute, and with jurisdiction of the case and
of the parties." The judgment, which is the subject-matter of
the litigation, is that of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, which is a court of the United States. The question we have to determine is whether the Supreme Court of
Errors of the State of Connecticut, in the decree complained
of, gave to that judgment its due effect.
Section 905, Rev. Stat., which embodies the original act of
May 26, 1790, c. 11, and the supplement thereto of March 27,
1804, c. 56, provides that the records and judicial proceedings,
not only of the courts of any State, but also of any Territory,
or of any country subject to the jurisdiction of the United
States, authenticated as therein prescribed, "shall have such
faith and credit given to them, in every court within the
United States, as they have by law or usage in the courts of
the State from which they are taken;" which, by supplying
the ellipsis, must be taken to mean, such faith and credit as
they are entitled to in the courts of the State, Territory, or
other country subject to the jurisdiction of the United States
from which they are taken.
So far as this statutory provision relates to the effect to be
given to the judicial proceedings of the States, it is founded
on art. 4, sect. 1, of the Constitution, which, however, does not
extend to the other cases covered by the statute. The power
to prescribe what effect shall be given to the judicial proceedings of the courts of the United States is conferred by other
provisions of the Constitution, such as those which declare the
extent of the judicial power of the United States, which authorize all legislation necessary and proper for executing the
powers vested by the Constitution in the government of the
United States, or in any department or officer thereof, and
which declare the supremacy of the authority of the national
government within the limits of the Constitution. As part of
its general authority, the power to give effect to the judgments

EmBRY V. PALMER.

[Sup. Gt.

of its courts is coextensive with its territorial jurisdiction.
That the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia is a court
of the United States, results from the right of exclusive legislation over the District which the Constitution has given to Congress. Accordingly, the judgments of the courts of the United
States have invariably been recognized as upon the same footing, so far as concerns the obligation created by them, with
domestic judgments of the States, wherever rendered and wherever sought to be enforced. Barney v. Patterson,6 Har. & J.
(Md.) 182; Niblett v. Scott, 4 La. Ann. 246; Adams v. Way,
83 Conn. 419; Womack v. -Dearman, 7 Port. (Ala.) 513;
Pepoon v. Jenkins, 2 Johns. (N. Y.) Cas. 119; Williams v.
Wilkes, 14 Pa. St. 228; Turnbull v. Payson, 95 U. S. 418;
Cage's Ex'rs v. Cassidy, 23 How. 109; Galpin v. Page,
3 Sawyer, 93, 109.
The rule for determining what effect shall be given to such
judgments is that declared by this court, in respect to the faith
and credit to be given to the judgments of State courts in the
courts of other States, in the case of A'.Elmoyle v. Cohen, 13
Pet. 312, 326, where it was said: "They are record evidence
of a debt, or judgments of record, to be contested only in such
way as judgments of record may be; and, consequently, are
conclusive upon the defendant in every State, except for such
causes as would be sufficient to set aside the judgment in the
courts of the State in which it was rendered."
The question then arises, what causes would have been sufficient in the District of Columbia, according to the law then in
force, to have authorized its courts to set aside the judgment
recovered there by Embry against Stanton and Palmer?
This is answered by the decision of this court, upon the
point, in the case of illarineInsurance Company of Alexandria
v. Hodgson, 7 Cranch, 332. That was a bill in equity, filed in
a court of the District of Columbia, perpetually to enjoin the
collection of so much of a judgment at law recovered in the
District as was in excess of an amount claimed to be the sum
equitably due. The grounds of relief alleged were that a fraud
had been practised upon the underwriters in a valued policy of
marine insurance, by an over-valuation of the ship, and that
the complainant had been prevented from making the defence

Oct. 1882.]

EMBRY V. PALMER.

at law. Chief Justice Marshall, delivering the opinion of the
court, affirming the decree of the court below dismissing the
bill, stated the rule as follows :"Without attempting to draw any precise line to which
courts of equity will advance, and which they cannot pass, in
restraining parties from availing themselves of judgments obtained at law, it may safely be said that any fact which clearly
proves it to be against conscience to execute a judgment, and
of which the injured party could not have availed himself in a
court of law, or of which he might have availed himself at law,
but was prevented by fraud or accident, unmixed with any
fault or negligence in himself or his agents, will justify an
application to a court of chancery. On the other hand, it may
with equal safety be laid down as a general rule that a defence
cannot be set up in equity which has been fully and fairly tried
at law, although it may be the opinion of that court that the
defence ought to have been sustained at law. In the case
under consideration the plaintiffs ask the aid of this court to
relieve them from a judgment, on account of a defence, which,
if good anywhere, was good at law, and which they were not
prevented, by the act of the defendants, or by any pure and
unmixed accident, from making at law."
This was held to be the law prevailing in the District of
Columbia, not by reason of any local peculiarity, but because
it was a general principle of equity jurisprudence. It was repeated in Hendrickson v. Hinckley, 17 How. 443, where the
rule was condensed by Mr. Justice Curtis into the following
statement: "A court of equity does not interfere with judgments at law, unless the complainant has an equitable defence,
of which he could not avail himself at law, because it did not
amount to a legal defence, or had a good defence at law, which
he was prevented from availing himself of by fraud or accident, unmixed with negligence of himself or his agents."
Creath v. Sims, 5 How. 192; Walker v. Bobbins, 14 id. 584.
It was reaffirmed in Crim v. Handley, 94 U. S. 652, and in
Brown v. County of Buena T7ita, 95 id. 157.
This is the doctrine recognized and applied by the Supreme
Court of Errors of Connecticut in the case of Pearce v. Olney,
20 Conn. 544. That was a bill in equity to restrain the collec-

EMBRY

V. PALMER.

[Sup. Ct.

tion of a judgment recovered in New York, upon the ground
that the complainant had a good defence at law to the action,
which he was prevented from making by the fraud of the defendant. It was there said by that court: "It is well settled
that this jurisdiction will be exercised, whenever a party, having a good defence to an action at law, has had no opportunity
to make it, or has been prevented by the fraud or improper
management of the other party from making it, and by reason
thereof a judgment has been obtained which it is against conscience to enforce." Then stating that the action was founded
on an alleged contract, on which the complainant was not personally liable, having been made by him as agent for a corporation, and that this was known to the party suing, the court
continue: "If this was all, the plaintiff would have no remedy,
however unjust it might be to compel him to pay that judgment. Still, as he was duly served with process in that suit,
it was his duty to make defence in it; and an injunction ought
not to be granted to relieve him from the consequences of his
own neglect."
The court then proceeds to show that he not only had a good
defence, but that it was his intention to make it, which he
would have done had he not been led by the assurances of the
attorney for the plaintiff in the action to believe that it had
been abandoned, so that its subsequent prosecution, without further notice, operated as a surprise, tantamount to a fraud; and
that, consequently, there was no ground on which to impute
laches to the complainant in not defending himself at law.
A subsequent action was brought in New York upon the
same judgment by an assignee of the plaintiff, to which the
defendant set up as a bar the Connecticut decree perpetually
enjoining its execution, which, by the judgment of the Court of
Appeals of New York, was sustained. Dobson v. Pearce, 12
N. Y. 156. The court said: "The decree of the Court of
Chancery of the State of Connecticut, as an operative decree,
so far as it enjoined and restrained the parties, had and has no
extra-territorial efficacy, as an injunction does not affect the
courts of this State; but the judgment of the court upon the
matters litigated is conclusive upon the parties everywhere and
in every forum where the same matters are drawn in question.

Oct. 1882.]

EMBRY V. PALMER.

It is not the particular relief which was granted which affects
the parties litigating in the courts of this State; but it is the
adjudication and determination of the facts by that court, the
final decision that the judgment was procured by fraud, which
is operative here, and necessarily prevents the plaintiff from
asserting any claim under it." p. 167.
The same rule, as to the jurisdiction in equity to enjoin the
enforcement of judgments at law, was declared by the Supreme
Court of Errors of Connecticut in the case of Carrington v.
ifolabird, 17 Conn. 530, in these words: "This jurisdiction
will be exercised where to enforce a judgment recovered is
against conscience, and where the applicant had no opportunity
to make defence, or was prevented by accident, or the fraud or
improper management of the opposite party, and without fault
on his own part."
To the same effect is the case of Borland v. Tornton, 12
Cal. 440, where the subject is discussed and the authorities
cited.
These, then, are the principles which should have governed
the Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut in the proceedings
and judgment now under review. It remains to ascertain
whether they were in fact applied in its dealing with the judgment sought to be enforced by the plaintiff in error.
No question is made of the right of that court to entertain
the jurisdiction to enjoin proceedings upon the judgment, notwithstanding it was the judgment of a court of the United
States. It had jurisdiction of the person of the plaintiff in
error, who was himself seeking the aid of the courts of that
State in his suit at law upon the judgment for the purpose of
enforcing it.
Nor is any inquiry opened, upon this writ of error, as to any
matter of fact found in the record before us. The facts, as
ascertained and acted upon by the State court, are assumed to
be true. They are contained in the report of the committee
appointed to hear the evidence and report its conclusions of
fact, which were accepted by the court, and they are not the
subject of any exception.
The Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut state the
grounds of their judgment in the report of the case, Stanton

EMBRY V. PALMER.

[Sup. Ct.

v. Embry, 46 Conn. 595, and hold that upon its circumstances it
comes within the rule laid down in Pearcev. Olney, 20 id. 544,
already noticed. The conduct of the plaintiff in error, alleged
as the ground for granting the relief decreed, is, that he "unintentionally gave them (the complainants) every reason for
thinking that he did not believe that he had any right to ask
for a judgment for a larger sum, and, of course, that he would
not; he unintentionally led them to believe and act upon the
belief, that the only loss which could possibly ensue from either
a partial or a total omission of preparation for trial would be
the sum of $2,296.25." The solitary fact upon which these
inferences rest is, that the plaintiff in error originally presented an account for payment, claiming that sum, as a commission at the rate of five per cent upon the amount collected,
and the complainants refusing to pay any part of it, on the
ground of defences which applied to the whole of it, he brought
his first suit in Connecticut against them, and in his declaration joined a special count on an agreement for this rate of
compensation, with a general count upon a quantum meruit.
The declaration in the action, in which judgment was rendered
by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, contained
two similar counts. It is argued from this that the claim for
$10,000 damages, appropriate to the quantum meruit count,
could only have been regarded as a form of pleading, not calculated to remove from the minds of the defendants sued "the
effect produced by the precise and explicit statement of the
bill of particulars;" which, regarding as obtained presumptively from the papers of the decedent, they had a right to
treat as "equivalent to a declaration that those papers furnished positive evidence that there was a contract calling for
payment at that rate;" that the plaintiff in error by "no act
or word gave any intimation that he considered himself entitled to or intended to claim more;" and that all this was
"calculated to and did in fact produce the belief on their part
that no more would in any event be asked of the court than to
assess the damages according to the terms of the contract."
It is admitted, however, that the plaintiff in error did not
know of the alleged special contract; that he did not intend to
give to the defendants in error any assurances on the subject,

Oct. 1882.]

EMBRY V. PALMER.

and that he did not know that they were relying upon what
they now allege has misled them.
In all this there is certainly no fraud; in fact, there is not
enough to suggest a fault on the part of the plaintiff in error.
He presented an account, which, it is now confessed, for them,
if not by them, that the defendants in error ought at the time
to have paid. This they refused to do, denying all liability
for any amount, on the ground that no legal claim could arise
for services, such as were rendered, no matter how valuable
they had been. Suit was then brought upon the claim, both
upon an express and an implied contract. It was contested at
every point. The parties were adversaries, and there is no
ground whatever for any claim on the part of the defendants
in error, that they were relying upon assurances of any character upon the part of Embry. If they took anything for
granted, it was upon their own responsibility and at their own
risk. They neither expected nor feared a recovery against
them for any excess beyond the contract rate, because they
were confident they would defeat it altogether. Embry was
an administrator. He had sought to obtain payment without
litigation, and failed. It was his duty to sue for and recover
whatever the law would give him. He owed no duty to his
adversaries, except the opportunity of defence. That they
have enjoyed, if not improved; and if it has not been as available as it would have been, in case they had limited themselves,
as they claim their opponent should have done, to the special
contract, which they now insist was binding upon both him
and them, it was, as found in this record, in part at least, "because their counsel had undue confidence in legal defences
against the entire demand, and, therefore, did not apprehend
the full importance to the interests of his clients of being prepared with proof of the special agreement." That agreement
they sought to avoid on the ground that it was illegal and immoral to contract for any compensation for the services rendered; and having deliberately staked their case upon that
single issue, they seek to impute'to their adversary the responsibility of their own mistake.
The laches of the defendants in error is equally manifest.
One of them was absent from the trial; the report of the

EEIBRY V. PALMER.

[Sup. Ct.

committee states that "his attendance might have been secured by reasonable diligence, if such attendance had been
deemed very important." The other was in Washington, but
too ill to attend the trial. His counsel asked a postponement
on that account; but, as the report continues, "no affidavit was
offered in support of the motion, and it was denied. The petitioners' counsel appears to have been content to proceed with
the trial in the absence of his clients. He had full and, as it
turned out, undue confidence in the legal defences which appeared by the record to have been set up at the trial, and took
it for granted that in no event could more be recovered than
$2,296.29." There were two letters from Atkinson to the defendants in error in their possession, and not known to the
plaintiff in error, expressly referring to the special agreement
as fixing the rate of compensation, which might have been produced on the trial, but were not. They had escaped the recollection of the active partner, Stanton, who, for the preparation
of the defence, had placed in the hands of his counsel in Washington all the papers which he supposed related to the subject
of the suit. The letters referred to were not found by him
until after the trial and disposition of the case in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia. It is entirely clear from
this statement that the defendants in error are chargeable with
carelessness and want of diligence in not making and sustaining the defence on the ground of an express agreement for a
fixed rate of compensation. It is fully accounted for by the
other facts in the case. The report of the committee states
that they were "not alive to the importance of being prepared
at the trial in Washington with the proof of the special agreement which the letters furnished;" and for the reason that
they took it for granted, without sufficient grounds, as we have
already seen, that no recovery could be had for a larger
amount, and this was based chiefly on their overweening confidence in their ability to defeat the recovery altogether.
But this is not all. The question whether there was not a
special agreement limiting the compensation, as appears by the
record in the case, was left to the jury upon evidence submitted. It was one of the points of the issue, and was so
regarded by both parties. The counsel for the defendants in

Oct. 1882.]

V. PALMER.
2EMBRY

error asked an instruction to the jury on the subject,. and the
court did instruct the jury in reference to it. After the verdict, a motion for a new trial was made on two grounds, first,
that the damages were excessive, and, second, " that since the
trial evidence vital to the case has been discovered." That
motion was overruled, and an appeal was taken to the general
term, where the judgment was affirmed. The motion for a
new trial does not disclose what new evidence had been discovered, nor was any affidavit filed setting out its materiality,
the circumstances of its discovery, and the reasons why it
could not have been produced at the trial. There is no reason
to doubt but that the evidence in question consisted of the
very letters referred to.
It thus appears that after the trial, and after the consequences of the failure of the defendants in error to make good
the defence now relied on had become manifest, they had the
opportunity to bring the very matter to the attention of the
Supreme Court of the District, and did in fact appeal to its
discretionary power to grant a new trial for reasonable and
sufficient cause. The motion for, a new trial was made March
17, 1873, was not overruled at special term till April 19, 1873,
and the appeal to the general term was not disposed of until
Oct. 27, 1873, and in fact, owing to an irregularity in the entry
of judgment, the verdict was under the control of the court
until Sept. 28, 1874. During this interval there was ample
time in which to present the facts and the application, and all
illusions as to the intentions of the plaintiff in error had been
dispelled by the trial and verdict. If it was not brought forward, it was from pure neglect. If it was, as it appears to
have been, a court of competent jurisdiction has passed upon
the very matter sought to be again litigated in the courts of
Connecticut. The judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia refusing to grant a new trial was final. It
was not, for that cause, subject to be reviewed on an appeal or
a writ of error in any superior jurisdiction, and, for the same
cause, it is not to be reviewed elsewhere. In 3 farine Inszrance
Companil v. Hodgson, supra, the court had refused to permit
the defendant to file the additional pleas raising the defence
which was the basis of the application for relief in equity.
VOL. XVI.

2

EMBRY V. PALMER.

[Sup. Ct.

The court, when the original case was before it on a writ of
error, said: " This court does not think that the refusal of an
inferior court to receive an additional plea, or to amend one
already filed, can ever be assigned for error. This depends so
much on the discretion of the court below, which must be regulated more by the particular circumstances of every case,
than by any precise and known rule of law, and of which the
Supreme Court can never become fully possessed, that there
would be more danger of injury in revising matters of this
kind than what might result now and then from an arbitrary
or improper exercise of this discretion." 6 Cranch, 206, 217.
In Crim v. Handley, 94 U. S. 652, 659, it was said: "Nor does
the allegation that one of his witnesses was sick during the examination, that it impaired his recollection and rendered him
incapable of stating material facts within his knowledge, afford
any sufficient support to the present application. Accidents
of the kind occasionally occur in the course of the trial; but
the -plain remedy for such an embarrassment is an application
to the court to postpone the trial or to continue the case, as
the circumstances may require. Applications of the kind, if
well founded, are seldom or never refused; but if a party
elects to proceed and take his chance of success, he cannot, if
the verdict and judgment are against him, go into equity and
claim to have the judgment enjoined. If a witness is too
unwell to testify understandingly, the proper remedy for the
party is to move for a postponement of the trial; and if lie
elects to proceed and is unsuccessful, his only remedy is a motion for new trial to the court where the accident occurred."
The Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut rest their judgment upon another ground, which it is proper to examine and
consider. It may be stated as follows: That Atkinson, himself,
if alive, could not have obtained a judgment, except upon his
special contract, without such a suggestion of a falsehood as
would have made it unconscionable for him to retain it; that
the administrator, representing him, stands in no different position, as he is seeking to enforce a judgment, which his intestate could not equitably do, and that his having "failed to
come to the knowledge of the truth as to the debt, and in ignorance misled the court into the rendition of a wrongful judg-

Oct. 1882.]

EMBRY V. PALMER.

ment, does not destroy the right of the petitioners to have the
wrong corrected now that it is pointed out."
But, in our opinion, this view cannot be maintained. It
seems to constitute the plaintiff the guardian, not only of his
own rights, but also of his adversaries, and to relieve them
from the obligation of taking any care of themselves. We are
not prepared to say, that, if Atkinson, in his lifetime, had presented his account for the amount now admitted to be due
upon the contract, and had been told by Stanton and Palmer
that they repudiated all liability on the ground that his services were illegal and against public policy, and therefore not
entitled to compensation at all, he would have been guilty of
any breach of law or morals, in insisting upon whatever the
law would award for their actual value. Certainly, he was not
bound, after that, to confine his claim to the limits of a contract which the other parties refused either to recognize or
perform; and if, on suit brought, he left them to use it as a
defence, if they saw fit, or to waive it for the chance of defeating his recovery altogether, we know of no principle of equity
which would forbid it. It is to be remembered that there is
nothing unconscionable or oppressive in the judgment itself,
which is the subject of the present complaint. It represents,
by the adjudication of a competent judicial tribunal, having
full jurisdiction of the parties and the controversy, the reasonable, actual value of beneficial services rendered by Atkinson
to the defendants in error. No fraud or unfairness was practised by the plaintiff in error in procuring it. The defendants
in error had abundant opportunity to make the defence they
now urge, and if they failed to do so, it was altogether their
own fault. The judgment is conclusive between the parties,
upon all the points made in the present suit, in the jurisdiction
where it was rendered, and was entitled to be so regarded in
the courts of Connecticut. In restraining further proceedings
upon it, in the terms of the decree under review, the Supreme
Court of Errors of that State have not given it that due effect
to which, under the authority of the Constitution and laws of
the United States, it is entitled. In that respect, there is manifest error in its decree, to the prejudice of the plaintiff in
error, for which it must be reversed, and the cause remanded to

BURGESS V. SELIGMAN.

[Sup. Ot.

the Supreme Court of Errors of the State of Connecticut, with
instructions to reverse the decree of the Superior Court within
and for the county of New London, and to direct that court to
render a decree dismissing the bill. It is accordingly
So ordered.

BURGESS V. SELIGMAN.
1. By a statute of Missouri, stockholders of a corporation at its dissolution are
liable for its debts; but it is provided that no person holding stock as executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee, and no person holding stock as
collateral security, shall be personally subject to such liability, but the persons pledging such stock shall be considered as holding the same, and liable;
and the estates and funds in the hands of executors, &c., shall be liable.
Held, 1. That persons to whom a corporation pledges its stock as collateral
security are within the exemption of the statute. 2. That certificates of
the stock absolute on their face, issued in trust or as collateral security to
a creditor, may be shown to be so held by evidence in pail. 3. That the
person holding such stock in trust, or as collateral security, is not, by his
voting thereon, estopped from showing that it belongs to the company, and
that he holds it as collateral security.
2. The Supreme Court of Missouri, after the Circuit Court had decided this
case, made a contrary decision against the same stockholders, at the suit of
another plaintiff, holding that the clause of exemption in the statute does
not extend to persons receiving from the corporation itself stock as collateral security. Held, that this court is not bound to follow the decision.
3. The courts of the United States, in the administration of State laws in cases
between citizens of different States, have an independent jurisdiction coordinate with that of the State courts, and are bound to exercise their own
judgment as to the meaning and effect of those laws.
4. Where, however, by the course of the decisions of the State courts, certain
rules are established which become rules of property and action in the
State, and have all the effect of law,- especially with regard to the law of
real estate and the construction of State constitutions and statutes, - the
courts of the United States always regard such rules as authoritative declarations of what the law is. But where the law has not been thus settled,
it is their right and duty to exercise their own judgment; as they also
always do in reference to the doctrines of commercial law and general jurisprudence: and when contracts and transactions have been entered into
and rights have accrued thereon under a particular state of the decisions
of the State tribunals, or when there has been no decision, the courts of the
United States assert the right to adopt their own interpretation of the law
applicable to the case, although a different interpretation may be given by
the State courts after such rights have accrued.

