Oct. 1882.]

UNION TRUST 00. V. SOUTHER.

It is conceded that Blunt & Insley actually paid Whipple &
Dickerson 970,000 for the assignments which were made, and
it is fairly to be inferred that in the accounting had under the
decree of this court in Ambler v. Whipple & Dickerson, Whipple has been charged with the proceeds of this sale. But,
whether that be so or not, no case has been made by the loose
and general allegations in this bill for relief against these defendants. The words "fraud" and "conspiracy" alone, no
matter how often repeated in a pleading, cannot make a case
for the interference of a court of equity. Until connected with
some specific acts for which one person is in law responsible to
another, they have no more effect than other words of unpleasant signification. While in this case the offensive words are
used often enough, the facts to which they are applied are not
such as to make the defendants answerable to the complainant
for the damages and other relief he asks.
Decree affirmed.

UNIox TRUST CO I'PANY v. SOUTHER.
Where the complainant prays for the appointment of a receiver of mortgaged
railroad property, pending proceedings for foreclosure, the court, in the exercise of a sound discretion, may, as a condition of granting the prayer, impose
such terms touching the application of the income arising during the receivership to the payment of outstanding debts for labor, supplies, equipment, or
permanent improvement of the property, as under the circumstances of the
case appear reasonable. Fosdick v. Schall, 99 U. S. 2.35, and Miltenberger v.
Logansport Railway Co., 106 id. 286, cited and approved.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
This appeal was taken because of a difference of opinion
between the circuit judge and the district judge holding the
Circuit Court as to a matter decided, and the facts on which
the questions certified depend may be stated as follows :On the 7th of October, 1871, the Cairo and St. Louis Railroad Company mortgaged its property, franchises, tolls, incomes, and profits to the Union Trust Company of New York,
APPEAL

UNION

TRUST Co.

v. SOUTHER.

[Sup. Ot.

to secure an issue of bonds amounting in the aggregate to
$2,500,000. Default was made in the payment of the interest
falling due Oct. 1, 1873, and semi-annually thereafter. On the
6th of December, 1877, the Trust Company filed its bill to
foreclose the mortgage, averring, among other things, that the
railroad company is insolvent; "that many and large claims
exist against it of the character known as floating debt; and
that unless a receiver is appointed . . . great, irreparable damage to said bondholders will ensue, and the property will be
liable to be greatly depreciated, and to be involved in useless
litigation; and your orator and its bondholders will lose the
benefit thereof as a security for the payment of said bonds."
Upon this allegation it was prayed that the "court will appoint a receiver according to the course and practice of this
court, with the usual powers of receivers in like cases."
As soon as the bill was filed a receiver was appointed, and
in making the appointment the court, of its own motion, entered the following order: "And said receiver, after paying the expenses of operating,
maintaining, and repairing said railroad anat property, and
after making such other payments herein authorized as are or
may be necessary for the conduct of such receivership, shall
pay and discharge all amounts due and owing by said railroad
company for labor, or supplies, that may have accrued in the
operation and maintenance of such railroad property within six
months immediately preceding the rendition of this decree."
In 1876 the railroad company paid $3,000 to the beneficiaries under the mortgage on account of their expenses, to a
much larger amount, in keeping an agency in the United
States, and in connection with the forbearance which they had
given the company in respect to overdue interest. Previous to
the appointment of the receiver none of the current income of
the company, except this single amount, had been paid to the
bondholders.
When the order in respect to debts for labor and supplies
was entered, the court instituted no special inquiries in respect
to the use which had been made of the income prior to that
time.
The receiver thus appointed took possession of the property

Oct. 1882.]

UNION TRUST Co. v. SOUTHER.

and operated the road until the end of the year 1881, and after
a sale had been perfected under a decree of foreclosure. During the receivership the net earnings of the road, after paying
all operating expenses, exceeded $200,000. The whole amount
was, however, under the orders of the court, with the consent
of the Trust Company, from time to time, expended "in purchasing additional grounds, rolling-stock, &c., and in making
permanent repairs and improvements upon said railroad property, instead of discharging therewith the claims of [against]
the railroad company for labor, materials, and supplies" during the six months immediately preceding the appointment of
the receiver; and when the property was finally sold, over
$65,000 of these debts remained unpaid. Among them was
one to E. E. Souther & Brother amounting to $582.14 for supplies. On the 9th of May, 1878, after the receiver got into
possession of the road, Souther & Brother filed in the suit for
foreclosure an intervening petition praying for the allowance
of their claim and its payment. On the 16th of May the claim
was allowed and the receiver directed to pay it out of the net
earnings "and before any improvements or ameliorations are
made upon the property in his hands as receiver." On the
5th of June, both the Trust Company and the receiver filed
motions to set aside this order. These motions remaining undisposed of, the road was sold under a decree of foreclosure in
1881, and brought only $4,000,000, when the amount due
under the mortgage was $4,300,000 and some more. After the
report of the sale was made, and a deficiency appeared, the
court, on the 8th of September, 1882, set aside the order for
the payment of the debt to the intervenors and allowed the
Trust Company to answer. An answer was filed and proof
taken which disclosed the foregoing facts. Upon the facts so
established one of the questions which arose was, whether,
under the circumstances, the court had the right to make an
order directing the payment of the claim. The circuit judge
was of the opinion that it had, and a decree was entered accordingly. From that decree this appeal was taken.
Mr. S. Corning Judd and Mr. William F. Whitehouse for
the appellant.
Mr. T. C. Mather for the appellee.
VOL. XVIL

38

UNION TRUST Co. v. SOUTHER.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
It seems to us that the question certified is fully disposed of
by Fosdick v. Shall, 99 U. S. 235, 251, where it was said,
"We have no doubt that when a court of chancery is asked by
railroad mortgagees to appoint a receiver of railroad property,
pending proceeding for foreclosure, the court, in the exercise
of a sound judicial discretion, may, as a condition of issuing
the necessary order, impose such terms in reference to the payment from the income during the receivership of outstanding
debts for labor, supplies, equipment, or permanent improvement of the mortgaged property, as may, under the circumstances of the particular case, appear to be reasonable." To
this we adhere, and, in our opinion, the right to impose terms
does not depend alone on whether current earnings have been
used to pay the mortgage debt, principal or interest, instead of
current expenses. Miltenberger v. Logansport Railway Company, 106 id. 286. Many other circumstances may make such
an order reasonable, and this case furnishes a striking example.
The first default in the payment of interest under the mortgage occurred in October, 1873. The bondholders did not see
fit to take possession, as they had the right to do, when the
default had continued for six months. On the contrary, notwithstanding no payments of interest had been made, they
allowed the company to operate the road and incur obligations
therefor until December, 1877. This was evidently in the
hope that their condition would be improved by the delay; for
to effect the forbearance they established an agency and incurred expenses to an amount much larger than the $3,000
reimbursed by the company. Prior to the appointment of the
receiver the gross earnings do not appear to have been enough
to pay expenses, but afterwards they yielded a very considerable surplus. There cannot be a 'doubt that it was for the
interest of the bondholders that the road should be kept in
operation, and as they did not see fit to take possession while it
could only be operated at a loss, it was certainly not an abuse
of judicial discretion for the court to order, as a condition of
granting their application for a receiver, that debts incurred
by the company in thus protecting the security should be paid

Oct. 1882.]

UNION TRUST CO. v. SOUTHER.

from the income of the receivership, if, in consequence of an
increase of revenue, it could be done.
The income of the receivership, instead of being applied in
accordance with the order to pay the debts for the supplies and
labor, was used, with the consent, and, it may fairly be inferred, at the request of the bondholders, to buy additional
grounds, rolling-stock, &c., and to make permanent improve,nents, thus adding to the value of the property, which was
afterwards sold. There is nothing whatever to indicate that
in thus using the income it was the intention of the court to
revoke the original order. It seems to have been found, in
the administration of the cause, that by using the income to
add to the value of the fixed property the interests of all parties would be promoted, and so the fund, which in equity
belonged to the labor and supply creditors, was for the time
being diverted from them and put into improvements and additions, the proceeds of which are now in court. It is not to be
presumed that this diversion would have been authorized if the
value of the property added to and improved was not to be
correspondingly increased. Clearly, therefore, on the face of
the transaction, the fund in court represents in equity the
income which belongs to the labor and supply creditors as well
as the mortgage security, and there was no impropriety in
appropriating it as far as necessary to pay the creditors specially provided for when the receiver was appointed. Such a
practice, under proper circumstances, was approved in Fosdilc
v. Selall, ubi supra, and seems to us eminently just.
There were other questions certified in the case, but as we
answer the one which has been particularly stated in the affirmative, and nothing more is needed to sustain the decree, the
others will not be considered further than has already been
done incidentally.
Decree affirmed.
NOTE. - Union Trust Company v. Fitzgerald, appeal from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of Illinois, was submitted at the
same time as the preceding case, by the same counsel for the appellant, and by
Mr. Thimas C. Fletcher for the appellee.
Mu. CHIEF JlSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

The facts and questions certified in this case are in all material respects like
those in Union Trust Company v. Souther, ante, p. 591.

It is, therefore, unnecessary

to answer the questions further than by reference to what was said in that case.
Decree affirmed.

