Oct. 1882.]

KENDALL V. UNITED STATES.

jurisdiction erred in overruling the motion to set aside the
indictment, and, consequently, that the Court of Appeals of
Kentucky erred in affirming its judgment.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky is reversed, and the cause remanded to that court, to'be thence

remanded to the Fayette Circuit Court, with directions to set
aside the indictment.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD adheres to the views expressed by him
in his dissenting opinions in Exparte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339,
349, and in Neal v. Delaware, 103 id. 370, 398; and, therefore, dissents from the judgment in this case.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, with whom concurred MR.
JUSTICE GRAY, dissenting.

I am unable to concur in this judgment. In my opinion
it is not to be presumed that the courts or the officers of Kentucky neglected or refused to follow the rulings in Strauder v.
West Virginia after the judgment in that case was pronounced
by this court. The Court of Appeals promptly recognized the
authority of that case, and, in the absence of any proof to the
contrary, it seems to me we must assume that the inferior
courts also did.

KNALLV . UNITED STATES.
1. In computing the six years after his claim against the United States first accrues within which it may be filed in the Court of Claims, the period must
be included when the claimant was unable to sue in that court by reason
of the aid he gave to the rebellion.
2. The petition is bad on demurrer when it appears therefrom that the claimant's
right of action against the United States is barred by the lapse of time.
APPEAL from the Court of Claims.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Hr. TNomas W. Bartley for the appellant.
2%e Solicitor-Creneralfor the United States;

124

KENDALL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The act of March 3, 1863, c. 92, amending that of Feb. 24,
1855, c. 122, establishing the Court of Claims, declares "that
every claim against the United States, cognizable by the Court
of Claims," - that is, such as the government permits to be
asserted against it by suit in that tribunal, -" shall be forever
barred, unless the petition, setting forth a statement of the
claim, be filed in the court, or transmitted to it under the
provisions of this [that] act, within six years after the claim
first accrues." After providing that claims which had accrued
six years before its passage shall not be barred if the petition
be filed in, or transmitted to, the court within three years
after its passage, and that the claims of married women, first
accrued during marriage, of persons under the age of twentyone years, and persons beyond the seas at the time the claim
accrued, entitled to the claim, shall not be barred if the petition be filed in court or transmitted within three years after
the disability has ceased, the act proceeds: "But no other
disability than those enumerated shall prevent any claim from
being barred, nor shall any of the said disabilities operate cumulatively."
The same act also provides that, in order to authorize a
judgment in favor of any citizen of the United States, it shall
be set forth in the petition that the claimant, and the original
and every prior owner thereof, where the claim has been assigned, has at all times borne true allegiance to the government
of the United States, and whether a citizen or not, that he has
not in any way voluntarily aided, abetted, or given encouragement to the rebellion against the government, which allegations may be traversed by the government; and if on the trial
such issue shall be decided against the claimant, his petition
shall be dismissed.
The appellant's claim arose on or about the last day of December, 1865. His petition was not filed within six years
from that date, and not until Nov. 22, 1872. The government
demurred, and the petition was dismissed upon the ground that
the claim was barred.
Claimant was engaged in the service of the insurgent government, but he insists that in virtue of the amnesty proclamation

Oct. 1882.]

KENDALL V. UNITED STATES.

of Dec. 25, 1868, his disabilities were removed, and his rights,
privileges, and immunities, under the Constitution, restored.
His specific contention is, that within the true meaning of the
statute his claim was not cognizable by the Court of Claims,
and did not accrue, until he was in such position that he could
invoke its jurisdiction. That, it is asserted, was impossible
before the promulgation of that proclamation.
We said in McElrath v. United States, 102 U. S. 426, that
the government could not be sued except with its consent, and
that it may restrict the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims to
certain classes of demands. The acts in question do contain
restrictions which that court may not disregard. For instance,
where it appears in the case that the claim is not one for which,
consistently with the statute, a judgment can be given against
the United States, it is the duty of the court to raise the question whether it is done by plea or not. To that class may be
referred claims which are declared barred if not asserted within
the time limited by the statute. What claims are thus barred?
The express words of the statute leave no room for contention.
Every claim - except those specially enumerated - is forever
barred unless asserted within six years from the time it first
accrued. And that there might be no misapprehension as to
the intention of Congress, the statute, after enumerating the
cases to which the limitation of six years should not apply,
declares that "no other disability than those enumerated shall
prevent any claim from being disbarred." The court cannot
superadd to those enumerated, a disability arising from the
claimant's inability to truthfully take the required oath. It has
no more authority to engraft that disability upon the statute
than a disability arising from sickness, surprise, or inevitable
accident, which might prevent a claimant from suing within
the time prescribed. Appellant's claim, if any he has or had,
accrued, within the meaning of the statute, when the government came under a legal obligation to pay the amount thereof.
In other words, it accrued against the government when, had
the transaction recited in the petition occurred with a citizen,
it would have accrued against that citizen. That the claimant
was, at that time, or any time prior to Dec. 25, 1868, unable
by reason of his connection with the rebellion - a circumstance

POTTER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. t

for which the United States was in no wise responsible -to
comply with the terms upon which the government had consented to be sued in the Court of Claims, is his misfortune,
and cannot have the effect of enlarging the time fixed by the
statute of limitation. His remedy, if the claim be a valid one,
is to apply to the legislative department of the government.
The courts cannot, in view of the language of the statute, exclude from computation, on the issue of limitation, the time
intervening between the accruing of the claim in 1865 and the
promulgation of the amnesty proclamation.
Judgment affirmed.

1. The local land-officers are not required to meet and jointly consider the proof
of settlement and cultivation offered by claimants under the pre-emption
laws.
2. In his accounts with the government, a receiver of public moneys in a land
district charged himself with money which he, or, during his absence, his
authorized agents, had received as the purchase price of public lands entered pursuant to the pre-emption laws. The United States, on his failure
to pay over the money, brought suit on his official bond. Held, that neither
he nor his sureties can defeat a recovery by setting up irregularities in the
proceedings by which the entry of the lands was allowed.

ERoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Minnesota.
This was an action brought against George F. Potter and
his sureties on his official bond as receiver of public moneys in
the Pembina land district in the Territory of Dakota. The
bond bears date Aug. 8, 1870, and its condition is that he
shall "truly and faithfully execute and discharge all the
duties of his said office according to law." The declaration
alleges that he was appointed such receiver for four years beginning June 7, 1870; that after the execution and delivery
of the bond 'and prior to June 80, 1874, there legally came
into his hands, as such receiver, the sum of $8,564.77, which
he refused and neglected to account for, or to pay over to the
a
United States.

