UNITED STATES V. PHELPS.

[Sup. Ot.

UNITED STATES V. PHELPS.
1. A claim for the appraisement of goods and the reduction of the duty thereon,
by reason of the damage which they sustained during the voyage of importation, may be allowed, although not made until after they were entered
at the custom-house at their full invoice value and the estimated duties
thereon paid. Shelton v. The Collector, 5 Wall. 113, so far as it conflicts with
this ruling, is overruled.
2. Section 2928, Rev. Stat., has exclusive reference to goods taken from a wreck.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
Phelps Brothers & Co. imported, August, 1876, from foreign
parts into the port of New York 5,861 boxes of lemons, the
value of which at the market when and where they were purchased was $24,006. The duty on them, at twenty per cent ad
valorem, was $4,801.20, the payment of which was admitted by
the United States except $1,151.60, to recover which sum this
action was brought against the importers in the proper District
Court of the United States.
The plaintiff having proved the foregoing facts, the defendants offered evidence showing that they, on the day of the
importation of the lemons, made an entry thereof at the custom-house in New York at their full invoice price, and paid
the estimated amount of duty thereon, if they were in sound
conditibn; that within seven days thereafter the defendants
applied for an allowance for damage to the lemons on the
voyage, and that after a subsequent examination and appraisement of the damage an allowance was thereupon made, the
duties whereon, at twenty per cent, amounted to $1,151.60,
in accordance wherewith the entry was liquidated in October
of that year and the United States paid that sum to the defendants.
To this evidence the plaintiff objected, on the ground that
the damage allowance should have been applied for and the
damage ascertained before the entry of the goods; that as
the application was not made nor the amount of damage ascertained until after the entry, the proceeding was irregular
and without warrant of law, and that the defendants could
acquire no benefit or advantage from any allowance made in

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. PHELPS.

pursuance thereof. The court overruled this objection, and
admitted the evidence; to which ruling and admission the plaintiff duly excepted.
The plaintiff thereupon requested the court to charge the
jury that, as the goods had been entered at the full invoice
price in the first instance, and the application for allowance,
the examination and appraisement not made, nor the damage
ascertained, nor the damage allowance made until after the
entry of the goods, the damage allowance was unwarranted by
law, and they could not give the defendants any abatement of
duties on account of such damage allowance.
The court refused so to charge, and the plaintiff duly excepted.
There was a verdict for the defendants, and the judgment
thereon was affirmed by the Circuit Court. The United States
thereupon brought this writ, and assigns for error: 1. The defendants' evidence was improperly admitted. 2. The instruction prayed for by the plaintiff should have been given.
1r. Assistant Attorney- General 3faury for the United
States.
The first legislation providing for the reduction of duties in
consequence of damage to merchandise sustained during the
voyage of importation is sect. 52 of the act of March 2, 1799,
c. 22. In so far as it relates to this subject, it is, with an immaterial omission, re-enacted in sect. 2927 of the Revised Statutes, which is in these words: "In respect to articles that have been damaged during the voyage,
whether subject to a duty ad valorem, or chargeable with a specific
duty, either by number, weight, or measure, the appraisers shall
ascertain and certify to what rate or percentage the merchandise is
damaged, and the rate of percentage of damage so ascertained and
certified shall be deducted from the original amount subject to a
duty ad valorem, or from the actual or original number, weight, or
measure on which specific duties would have been computed. No
allowance, however, for the damage on any merchandise that has
been entered and on which the duties have been paid or secured to
,be paid, and for which a permit has been granted to the owner or
consignee thereof, and which may, on examining the same, prove
to be damaged, shall be made, unless proof to ascertain said damVoL. XVII.

21

UNITED STATES V. PHELPS.

[Sup. Ct.

age shall be lodged in the custom-house of the port where such
merchandise has been landed within ten days after the landing of
such merchandise."
As to the importation in this ease, the application for damage
allowance was made within ten days after entry, and there is
scarcely room for doubt, that if there had been no other legislation on the subject the refund would have been entirely
legal.
The difficulty in the case grows out of sect. 21 of the act of
March 1, 1823, c. 21, re-enacted (saving an immaterial omission) in sect. 2928 of the Revised Statutes, which is in these
words :
"Before any merchandise which may be taken from any wreck
shall be admitted to an entry the same shall be appraised; and the
same proceedings shall be ordered and executed in all cases where
a reduction of duties shall be claimed on account of damage which
any merchandise shall have sustained in the course of the voyage;
and in all cases where the owner, importer, consignee, or agent
shall be dissatisfied with such appraisement, he shall be entitled to
the privileges of appeal, as provided for in this title."
These provisions, as parts of two independent statutes, came
before this court in 1866 in Shelton v. Die Collector, 5 Wall.
113, upon the contention by the government that the act of
1823, in requiring that "the same proceedings" shall be taken
in case of reduction of duties on account of damage sustained
during the voyage, rendered it imperative that the appraisal
necessary in every such case should be made before entry, as in
the case of importation of merchandise taken from a wreck;
and this court sustained that view, holding that the act of 1823
had wrought an implied repeal of the act of 1799 in this particular.
It is true that the failure to make -claim and proof for damage allowance within ten days after the landing of the merchandise was fatal to the claim in that case, but the judgment was
placed distinctly on both grounds.
The court declined hearing Mr. Charles i. -Da Costa for the
defendants in error.

Oct. 1882.]

TREDWAY V. SANGER.

MR. CmaiF JUSTICE WAITE, delivered the opinion of the
court.
Section 2928 of the Revised Statutes, a re-enactment of sect.
21 of the act of March 1, 1823, c. 21, relates alone to merchandise taken from a wreck, and does not in any manner affect the
proceedings under sect. 2927, a re-enactment of sect. 52 of the
act of March 2, 1799, c. 22, to obtain an appraisement for an
abatement of duties on account of damages to goods during the
voyage of importation. What was said in Shelton v. The Collector, 5 Wall. 113, 118, to the contrary of this is disapproved.
The subject is so fully and carefully considered in the opinion
of the court below, that we deem it unnecessary to do more
than to refer to the report of the case in 20 Blatchf. 129.
Judgment affirmed.

TREDWAY v. SANGER.
The indorsee of "a promissory note negotiable by the law merchant," which the
maker secured by a mortgage of land to the payee, is not precluded from
maintaining a foreclosure suit in a court of the United States by the fact that
the maker and the payee are citizens of the same State.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
Tredway and Kettelman, citizens of California, having made
two negotiable promissory notes to McLaughlin, a citizen of
that State, executed, to secure the payment of them, to him a
mortgage upon lands there situate. The notes were assigned
to Sanger, a citizen of Pennsylvania, who filed in the court
below his bill of foreclosure against Tredway and Kettelman.
They set up by plea that the assignment of the notes was merely
colorable, in order to give that court jurisdiction. The court
found that the plea was untrue and insufficient. A decree was
rendered in favor of the complainant, reciting that there was
due to him the amount of the note, ordering a sale of the mortthe
gaged premises to satisfy the same, and providing that ifproceeds of the sale be insufficient to pay the debt, interest, and

