Oct. 1882.]

JAFFRAY V. McGCEHEE.

virtue of the deed from him of March 5, 1859, to be conveyed
by Chapman to William A. Ely, his co-complainant, and sole
representative of Charles A. Ely, upon such terms as the equities of the case may require. It is
So ordered.

JAFFRAY v.

McGEmEE.

1. The statute of Arkansas prescribing the manner in which property assigned
for the benefit of creditors shall be sold is mandatory.
2. An assignment made in the State is void if it vests in the assignee a discretion in conflict with the provisions of that statute, and authorizes him in
effect to sell such property in a manner which they do not permit.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Arkansas.
The statutes of Arkansas contain the following provisions :"SECT. 385. In all cases in which any person shall make an assignment of any property, whether real, personal, or choses in
action, for the payment of debts, before the assignee thereof shall
be entitled to take possession, sell, or in any way manage or control any property so assigned, he shall be required to file in the
office of the clerk of the court exercising probate jurisdiction, a full
and complete inventory and description of such property; and also
make and execute a bond to the State of Arkansas in double the
estimated value of the property in said assignment, with good and
sufficient security, to be approved by the judge of said court, conditioned that such assignee shall execute the trust confided to him,
sell the property to the best advantage, and pay the proceeds
thereof to the creditors mentioned in said assignment, according to
the terms thereof, and faithfully perform the duties according to
law."
"SECT. 387. Said assignee shall be required to sell all the property assigned to him for the payment of debts, at public auction,
within one hundred and twenty days after the execution of the
bond required by this act, and Bhall give at least thirty days' notice
of the time and place of such sale. And any person damaged by
the neglect, waste, or improper conduct of such assignee, shall be

JAFFRAY V.

M GEHEE.[

[Sup. Ct.

entitled to bring his action on the bond in the name of the State
for the use and benefit of such person." Gantt's Digest, pp. 207
and 208.
While these sections were in force, to wit, on Dec. 19, 1878,
James C. Moss and John S. Bell, partners under the name of
Moss & Bell, doing business as merchants at Pine Bluff, Arkansas, conveyed, by an assignment in writing, all their goods,
wares and merchandise, and choses in action to the defendant
James M. Hudson, as trustee in trust for the payment of their
debts. The deed of assignment preferred certain creditors
who afterwards became the complainants in this suit, and required the trustee to pay them in full if the proceeds of the
property assigned should be sufficient for that purpose, and if
there should be any surplus, to pay it share and share alike to
other creditors. The powers conferred on the trustee were as
follows: "To sell and dispose of all of said property for cash
as he should deem advisable and right, and to this end to use
his own discretion, subject to the supervision of the creditors,
. . . and to conduct and transact all of the business as he
may deem proper in the exercise of a sound discretion, and as
he shall deem most advisable for the benefit of creditors and
their trust; and he shall have power to appoint such assistants,
agents, and attorneys as in his judgment may be necessary to
enable him to fulfil this trust," &c.
Hudson accepted the trust. On the 21st of December, 1878,
he gave bond according to law, and filed in the office of the
clerk of the Probate Court an inventory of the property conveyed to him by the assignment. On the same day, McGehee,
Snowden, & Violett recovered in the court below a judgment
against Moss & Bell for $10,992. An exectition which was
issued thereon Jan. 12, 1879, came that day into the hands
of the marshal of the district, who levied it on, and took
into his possession, the assigned goods and chattels, and was
about to advertise and sell them to satisfy the writ, when the
bill in this case was filed by the preferred creditors. The bill
recited the foregoing facts, and prayed an injunction against
the marshal and McGehee, Snowden, & Violett, forbidding
them to interfere with the property assigned to Hudson, and
that they might be decreed to return the same to him, &c.

Oct. 1882.]

JAFFRAY V. IfMCGEHEE.

The defendants demurred to the bill for want of equity.
The Circuit Court sustained the demurrer on the ground that
the deed of assignment was void on its face, and dismissed the
bill. The complainants thereupon appealed.
Mr. S. -F. Clark and Xr. S. W. Williams for the appellants.
Mr. U. H. Rose for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
The statute of Arkansas provides that the property assigned
for the benefit of creditors shall be sold at public auction
within one hundred and twenty days after the execution of the
bond required of the assignee.
The deed of assignment in effect authorized the assignee to
sell at private sale, and at such time and in such manner as he
should deem advisable and right. Under this power he could
wait an indefinite time, and then sell the property at wholesale,
or he could carry on the business of selling off the stock of
goods in the ordinary way of retail merchants, and without
any limit of time within which the sale should be completed.
The powers conferred by the deed of assignment were, therefore, in direct opposition to the policy of the statute. It is
true the powers conferred on the trustee were subject to the
supervision of the creditor*. But this could only mean a
majority of the creditors. The assignee was, therefore, authorized by the assignment to dispose of the property assigned in a
manner different from that pointed out by the statute, and in
disregard of the wishes and remonstrances of a minority of the
creditors. The question presented is therefore this, Is an assignment for the benefit of creditors, which authorizes the
assignee to violate the provisions of the statute regulating
such assignments, valid and binding on the creditors of the
assignor ?
The contention of the appellant is that the assignment is
valid, 1, because the discretion given the assignee by the assignment leaves him at liberty to follow the law; and, 2, because,
even if the assignment required him to administer the trust in
a manner different from that prescribed by the law, only such
directions as conflicted with the law would be void, and the
assignment itself would remain valid.

JAFFRAY V. MCGEHEE.

[Sup.

.

We think that, under the cQnstruction given the assignment
law by the Supreme Court of Arkansas in Baleigh v. Griffith,
87 Ark. 160, these positions cannot be maintained. The assignment in that case provided as follows: "The party of the
second part," the assignee, "shall take possession of all and
singular the property and effects hereby assigned, and sell and
dispose of the same, either at public or private sale, to such
person or persons, for such prices and on such terms and conditions, either for cash or upon credit, as, in his judgment, may
appear best and most for the interest of the parties concerned,
and convert the same into money."
It will be observed that the terms of the assignment did not
prevent the assignee, in the administration of his trust, from
following the directions of the statute in all particulars. He
was at liberty to sell for cash at public auction, and within
one hundred and twenty days after the filing of his bond.
But the assignment vested him with a discretion to do otherwise. The court declared the assignment to be void. It said:
"In providing for the sale of the property, the statute is disregarded in the deed of assignment; the assignee was authorized
to sell at a private or public sale, and for cash or credit.
Under such provision it was in the power and discretion of the
assignee to prolong the execution and closing of the trust for
an indefinite period. The legislature deemed it expedient, as
a matter of public policy, to require assignees, in general deeds
of assignment for the benefit of creditors, to sell all property
assigned to them, for the payment of debts, at public auction,
within one hundred and twenty-five days after the execution of
the bond, on thirty days' notice of the time and place of sale."
And the court declared: "The statute prescribes a mode of sale
in this State, and dissenting creditors are not barred by a
deed made in direct contravention of a plain provision of the
statute."
The effect of this decision - and there is no other decision
of that court in conflict therewith -is that the provisions of
the statute respecting the sale of property assigned for the
benefit of creditors are mandatory and not directory. See
also French v. Edwards, 13 Wall. 506. This being the construction put upon the law by the Supreme Court of the State

Oct. 1882.]

WIGGINs FERRY CO. v. EAST ST. Louis.

365

when the assignment in this case was made, it is binding on
the courts of the United States. Brashear v. West, 7 Pet.
608; Sumner v. Hicks, 2 Black, 532; Lefflngwell v. Warren,
id. 599. It follows that the assignment, which vests the assignee with a discretion contrary to the mandates of the statute, and in effect authorizes him to sell the property conveyed
thereby in a method not permitted by the statute, must be
void, for contracts and conveyances in contravention of the
terms or policy of a statute will not be sanctioned. Peck v.
Barr, 10 N. Y. 294; A4_faegregor v. -Dover& -DealBailway Co.,
18 Q. B. 618; Jackson v. Davison, 4 Barn. & Ald. 691; Xiller v. Post, 1 Allen (Mass.), 434; Parton v. Hervey, 1 Gray
(Mass.), 119; Hathaway v. M3oran, 44 Me. 67.
The result of these views is that the decree of the Circuit
Court dismissing the bill, because the assignment in question
was void on its face, was right, and must be
Affirmed.

WIGGiNs FERRY Com'ANY v. EAST ST. Louis.
1. The fourth section of the act of the legislature of Illinois passed in 1819, touching a ferry across the Mississippi River from a place in Illinois to the city
of St. Louis, Missouri, declares: "That the ferry established shall be subject to the same taxes as are now, or hereafter may be, imposed on other
ferries within this State, and under the same regulations and forfeitures."
Held, that the section provides for equality of taxation; that is to say, that
the property of the ferry company shall be valued and taxed by the same
rule as other like property, and be subject to the same exactions and forfeitures, but the company is not exempted from any license tax on its
ferry-boats which the State or a municipal corporation thereunto authorized
might impose.
2. The power to license is a police power, although it may also be exercised for
the purpose of raising revenue.
3. A State has the power to impose a license fee, either directly or through one
of its municipal corporations, upon the ferry-keepers living in the State, for
boats which they own and use in conveying from a landing in the State
passengers and goods across a navigable river to a landing in another
State.
4. The levying of a tax upon such boats, although they are enrolled and licensed
under the laws of the United States, or the exaction of a license fee by

