DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

217

McLaughlin v. Swann et al.

simple in his brother's share, while he had an estate in tail in his
own; a result most improbable, which could hardly have been
contemplated by the testator, and which ought not to be imputed to him without clear expressions indicating such an intention.
On the whole, we are of opinion that the instructions given
to the jury by the court below are correct, and that the judgment
should be affirmed.

PATRICK MCLAUGHLIN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JAMES SWANN AND
JOHN S. GiTTINGS, GARNISHEES OF THE CHESAPEAKE AND

OHIO

CANAL COMPANY.*
The attachment law of Maryland allows an attachment by way of execution to be
issued upon a judgment and levied upon the credits (inter ala) of the defendant.
Where an attachment of this nature was laid in the hands of garnishees who were
trustees, and it appeared that, after performing the trust, there was a balance in
their hands due to the defendant, the attachment will bind this balance.
The defendant might have brought an action to recover it, and wherever he can do
this, the fund is liable to be attached.
A bill filed in the court of chancery by another creditor against the garnishees and the
defendant, filed after the laying of the attachment, and the opinion and decree of"
the chancellor thereon, do not change the rights of the plaintiff in the attachment.
The decree was passed without prejudice to his rights. If these things were made
evidence by consent in the court below, it does not so appear in the bill of exceptions.
Whatever legal or equitable defences the garnishees might have set up in an action
brought against them by the defendant to recover the balance in their hands, can be
set up, by bill of interpleader or otherwise, against the plaintiff in the attachment.
The different modes of presenting these legal and equitable defences in different states
referred to.

THis case was brought up by writ of error from the circuit
court of the United States, for the District of Maryland.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
The instructions given by the circuit court to the jury, and
which were excepted to by the plaintiff, were as follows: And the court directed the jury that the plaintiff was not entitled to recover, and their verdict must be for the defendants :
1. Because the rights of the parties claiming as cestui que
trusts, under the deed of April 15, 1840, and the rights of those
claiming an interest in the surplus after the cestui que trusts are
satisfied, cannot be adjusted and determined in the proceeding
*Mr. Chief Justice TANEY was prevented by sickness from taking his seat on the
bench, at the present term, until the 4th of February, and was not present when this
case was argued and decided in this court.
VOL. xvIIL.
19

218

SUPREME COURT
McLaughlin v. Swann et al.

by attachment against the trustees in a court of law, and there
is no evidence that any specified sum ascertained by the accounts
of the trustees, or by judicial decision, was due to the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company at the time this attachment was
laid, or at any time since, after satisfying all legal or equitable
claims on the fund placed in the hands of the trustees.
2. Because there is no evidence that anything remained in
the hands of the trustees, after satisfying the trust mentioned in
the deed, more than sufficient to satisfy the claim of the Alexandria Canal Company and others, having prior and superior
claims on the fund to the plaintiff in this attachment.
3. The plaintiff having become a party to the proceedings in
the chancery court of Maryland, in the suit in which this fund
was in litigation, and the trustees in the fund being all before
the court, he is concluded by its decision while the decree remains in force.
It was argued in this court by 11Th. Davis, for the plaintiff in
error, and by iLr. Campbell, for the defendants.
Mr. Davis made the following points: 1. That under the circumstance of this case, the process of
attachment was a proper process to reach, and affect any surplus
in the hands of the trustees remaining after gratifying the trusts
of the deed, and not needed to satisfy the demands of others
having prior and superior claims on the fund.
2. That there was evidence of a large surplus existing in the
hands of the trustees, after satisfying the trusts of the deed, the
claim of the Bank of Potomac, and all others superior and prior
to the claim of the present plaintiff.
3. That the decree of the court of chancery of Maryland alluded to, cannot prejudice the plaintiff's right to recover, if it
can be shown that at the time of passing the decree, the trustees
had in hand a surplus, which was liable to be affected by process
of attachment.
Under the first head he cited 5 Har. & John. 312-315; 3 Har.
& McH. 535, and maintained that every equitable interest in
Maryland, except a trust in process of execution, is liable to be
attached under the act of 1715. See act of 1881, c. 821, which
is a declaratory act.
The trust had expired in this case, and an action for money
had and received could have been maintained against the trustees.
Mr'. Campbell contended, that when the attachment was issued,
the whole surplus was in controversy between the Chesapeake
Bank and the Bank of Potomac.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

219

McLaughlin v. Swann et al.

How could the court below settle the conflict between these
rival claimants, neither of them before it, or weigh in legal scales
their respective equities ?
Case v. Roberts, 3 Eng. Comm. Law, 172. The action for
money had and received must not be turned into a bill of equity
for the purpose of discovery. While the matter remains in account and is charged with the specific trust, the action for
money had and received will not lie. Roper v. Holland, .30
Eng. Comm. Law, 37; Edwards v. Bates, 49 Ib. 598; Pardoe
v. Price, 13 Mees. & Welsby, 282, 283; Bartlett v. Dimmond, 14 Th. 49; Tiernan v. Jackson, 5 Pet. 597; Duvall
v. Craig, 2 Wheat. 56; Rathbone v. Stocking, 2 Barb. Sup.
Ct. R. 135, and the cases referred to in the court's opinion.
The second instruction of the circuit court was correct, for
the evidence showed that the surplus, after the redemption of
the script, was all clainId by the Bank of Potomac and Chesapeake Bank.
McIaughlin was made a party to the proceeding in chancery
and answered. The reservation avails nothing under the circumstances. This cause began in 1841, and was continued from
term to term till 1851. He might have claimed the surplus in
chancery. If he did not choose to assert' his rights the decree
must bind him.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Maryland.
The plaintiff in error having recovered a judgment in that
court against the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, sued
out a writ of foreign attachment against the lands and tenements, goods, chattels, and credits of that company, and on the
4th day of June, 1841, it was laid in the hands of James Swann
and John S. Gittings. The garnishees having appeared and
answered certain interrogatories, pleaded that at the time of
laying the attachment they had not any goods, chattels, or credits
of the company in their hands, and upon the trial a bill of exceptions was taken, from which it appears that the plaintiff
offered evidence tending to prove, that, by an indenture, bearing
date on the 15th day of April, 1840, between the company of
the first part, and the garnishees, together with William Guiton,
(who, residing out of the district, was not served with process,)
of the second part, the party of the first part transferred to the
party of the second part, two hundred and forty-eight bonds of
the State of Maryland, each for two hundred and fifty pounds
sterling, in trust to pay, from the proceeds thereof, such promissory notes of the company, described in a schedule annexed to

220

SUPREME COURT.
McLaughlin r. Swann et al.

the indenture, as should be presented to the trustees at the
Chesapeake Bank in Baltimore, within six months from the date
of the indenture; and at the end of the six months, to pay to
the company any money, and to deliver to the company any of
the bonds which might then remain in their hands, whether all
the notes mentioned in the schedule should then be paid or not.
The plaintiff further offered evidence to prove, that Gittings,
with the assent of the other trustees, sold the bonds prior to the
28th day of February,1841, for the aggregate sum of 8 344,117 2 ;
and that the sums received by him for interest on the bonds
amounted to $16,958-fl, amounting in the whole to the sum of
361,075-3.
The disbursements and payments made by the
trustees in the execution of the trust, appeared to have been
$324,825jo, leaving a balance due from the trustees, after the
complete execution of the trust declared in the indenture, of
$ 36,250-%.
Upon this state of facts, we think the plaintiff entitled to a
verdict.
The trust was for the payment of specified debts, which should
be presented to the trustees before a fixed day. The payments
made, and the sums received in execution of the trust, were
The trust
liquidated sums ascertained with entire precision.
was completely executed, and the balance remaining in the
hands of the trustees was a sum certain.
Under these circumstances, an action at law for money had
and received could be sustained by the canal company against
the trustees, they not having sealed the deed.
In Case v. Roberts, (Holt's N. P. C. 500,) Burrough, J., states
the rule on this subject to be: "If money is paid into the hands
of a trustee for a specific purpose, it cannot be recovered in an
action for money had and received, until that specific purpose is
shown to be at ai end. If the plaintiff show that the specific
purpose has been satisfied, that it has absorbed a certain sum
only, and left a balance, such balance (the trust being closed)
becomes a clear and liquidated sum, for which an action will lie
at law." This statement of the rule has been approved, and in
See, among others,
conformity with it many cases decided.
English v. Blundell, 8 Car. & P. 332; Edwards v. Bates, 7 Man.
& Gr. 590; Allen v. Impett, 8 Taunt. 263; Weston v. Barker,
12 Johns. R. 276.
This case, thus presented, comes within that rule; and as an
action at law could have been sustained by the canal company
to recover the liquidated balance remaining in the hands of the
trustees, the plaintiff could subject that balance to the satisfaction of his judgment, by attaching it as a credit in the hands
of the trustees.

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

221

McLaughlin v. Swann et al.
But, in addition to the evidence above referred to, the bill of
exceptions contains the following statement concerning evidence
introduced by the defendants: "That on the 25th of June, 1841, a bill was filed in the court
of chancery, in Maryland, against the said garnishees and the
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, and others, by the Bank
of Potomac, claiming as assignee of the surplus which remained
after satisfying the trusts under the deed of April, 1840, and
praying an account and settlement of the trust, which bill is in
the following words: It being agreed between the parties that
the said bill and other portions of the pleadings or proceedings
in that case, hereinafter mentioned to have been produced and
read, shall be received in evidence and have the same effect as if
the whole record was produced, and such pleadings or proceedings read from it."
Then follows a copy of the bill, of an opinion of the acting
chancellor, and of the final decree in the cause. McLaughlin,
the present plaintiff in error, is not made a party to this bill.
How he came into the cause as a party does not appear. If by
the amended bill, he ceased to be a party before the final decree,
because that decree recites that the amended bill was dismissed
by the complainants before the final submission of the cause to
the chancellor. Nor does it appear for what purpose McLaughlin
was made a party, or whether he at any time submitted his
rights as an attaching creditor, by a process out of the circuit
court of the United States, to a court of the State of Maryland,
in a suit in equity, begun after his attachment was laid. But it
does not appear to be material to consider either of these particulars, because the final decree concludes with this clause: " And it is further adjudged, ordered, and decreed, that this
cause be, and the same is hereby dismissed as against the defendant, Patrick McLaughlin, and this decree is passed without prejudice to the rights of the said McLaughlin against any and every
of the parties to this suit."
Either because the chancellor deemed it improper to pass on
his rights acquired by an attachment under process of a court
of the United States, or for some other reason, lie has made a
decree, which in express terms leaves McLaughlin in all respects
unaffected by that suit.
We think, also, that so much of the record of the chancery
suit as is in this record, though it was properly read in evidence
to prove that such proceedings were had, and such decree made,
is not evidence of any facts found by the chancellor, either in his
opinion or in the decree.
The bill having been dismissed as against him, and all his
rights, as against any and every of the parties, expressly saved,
19 *

222

SUPREME

COURT.

McLaughlin v. Swann et al.

there has been no matter tried or adjudicated as between him
and any other party, and he stands, in all respects, as if he had
never been a party to the suit.
It was insisted at the argument, that the stipulation already
extracted from the bill of exceptions made the chancellor's
opinion evidence, as against McLaughlin, of the facts it finds.
This was denied by the plaintiff's counsel; and, however probable
we may think the inference, that the chancellor's opinion was
treated as evidence by the circuit court, with the consent of the
plaintiff, yet we cannot say this appears to us judicially, by the
bill of exceptions. The stipulation only extends so far as to
make the parts of the record, which were read, have the same
effect as if the whole record had been put in. The whole record
might have properly been put in, to prove what was done and
decreed in that suit, valeat quantum. But when it appeared that
so far as respected the plaintiff and his rights, nothing was done
or decreed, his rights in this suit could not be affected by anything appearing therein, or deducible therefrom. In our opinion,
therefore, the case is presented to us upon the evidence, extraneous to the record of the state court. Upon that evidence, we
think the jury would have been authorized and required to find
for the plaintiff; and, consequently, that the instruction given
in the court below, that their verdict must be for the defendants,
was erroneous.
We express no opinion upon the defences supposed to arise
out of the facts found in the opinion of the chancellor. If the
facts, which may be proved in defence, on another trial, should
amount to a legal defence to an action for money had and received, if brought by the Canal Company, they would also
amount to a defence to this attachment. If they only show outstanding equities, in third persons, of such a character that a
court of law cannot take notice of them, they must be availed
of, if valid, by a bill brought by such third persons against
McLaughlin, or by a bill of interpleader by the trustees. The
attachment invests the plaintiff with the same right of action
which belonged to the Canal Company; and no deftnce, which
could not have been made at law to an action by the company,
can be made to the attachment, which is but a substituted mode
of pursuing the same right. Wanzer v. Truly, 17 How. 584.
So far as respects equitable rights of set-off by the garnishee, a
different rule has been followed in Massachusetts. Boston Type
Co. v. Mortimer, 7 Pick. 166; Hathaway v. Russell, 16 Mass.
473 ; Green v. Nelson, 12 Met. 567. And, in the absence of an
equitable jurisdiction in that State, there has been, until recently,
no mode of giving effect to the equitable rights of the garnishee,
or of third persons, save in the process of gar,,ishiment, or pos-

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

223

The Steamboat New York, &c., et al. v. Rea, &c.

sibly by an action on the case in some instances. Foster v. Sinkler, 4 Mass. 450; Hawes v. Langton, 8 Pick. 67; Adams v. Cordis, 8 Pick. 260.
But, in other States, it has been held that only legal defences
can be pade to the attachment. Pennell v. Grubb, 18 Penn. R.
552; Taylor v. Gardner, 2 Wash. C. C. Rep. 488; Loftin v.
Shackelford, 17 Alabama, 455; Edwards v. Delaplaine, 2 Harrington, 322; Watkins v. Field, 1 English, 391.
We are not aware that this subject has come under the examination of the courts of Maryland in any reported case. But in a
State where the legal and equitable jurisdictions are distinct,
and in a court of the United States, having full equity owers,
we consider that a garnishee should stand as nearly as possible
in the same position he would have occupied if sued at law by
his creditor ; and if he, or any third person, has equitable rights
to the fund in his hands, they should be asserted in that jurisdiction which alone can suitably examine and completely protect
them.
The judgment of the circuit court is to be reversed, and the
cause remanded, with directions to issue a venire facias de novo.

THE STEAMBOAT NEW YORK, HER TACKLE, APPAREL, &C.,
THOMAS C. DURANT, CHARLES W. DURANT, AND SEPTIMUS
LATHROP, CLAIMANTS AND APPELLANTS, V. ISAAC P. REA,
OWNER OF THE BRIG SARAH JOHANNA.
Where a vessel was lying at anchor in the port of New York, and a steamboat came
down the Hudson 'River with wind and tide in her favor, and also having several
heavily loaded barges fastened on each side of her, and came into collision with the
vessel which was lying at anchor, it was a gross fault in the steamboat to proceed,
at night, on her way with a speed of from eight to ten miles per hour.
Moreover, the steamboat had not a sufficient look-out.
The statutes of the State of New York, regulating the light which the vessel lying at
anchor was to show, have no binding force in the present case. The rule for the
decision of the federal courts is derived from the general admiralty law.
Police regulations for the accommodation and safety of vessels in a harbor, may be
enacted by the local authorities.

Tis was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the southern district of New York.
The district court decreed that the libellant should recover
against the steamboat the sum of $ 3,875 and costs.
The circuit court affirmed this decree, and gave judgment for
4,174 and costs.
It was submitted upon printed arguments in this court by

