158

SUPREME

COURT.

Griffith et al. v. Bogert et al.

front on the lake. They must then ascertain the front on the
lake shore, as it at present exists, and divide that into as many
equal parts as there are feet on the old shore from North Water
street to the piers, and give to each of the parties as many of
these parts as he had feet on the old shore, and then draw a
straight line from the point of division on the old lake shore
to the point thus determined as the point of division on the
present one.
We do not perceive why North Water street should have been
adopted as the northern limit upon the old shore, as the basis in
making the division, as it appears from the evidence and maps
that the alluvial accretions extended much farther north. The
northern limit on the old shore should have been carried as far
as the new-made land extended, as each riparian proprietor was
entitled to his proper share, and it was essential that the entire
line be regarded, in order that each might obtain his proportional
part. Neither do we perceive any reason for excluding the pier
shore of the lake - that is, the shore along the line of the piers
- from measurement, in ascertaining the extent of the newly
made shore. If we disregard the artificial construction which
occasioned the accretions, the lake there is as much new shore
as any other portion of it, and should have been taken into the
estimate.
As no question was made below whether or not the alluvial
accretions in question were formed under such circumstances as
gave to adjoining owners a title to them, we do not intend to
express any opinion upon that question.
The judgment of the court below is reversed, with directions
that a venire de novo issue.

JOSIAH SIDDONS GRIFFITH, J.AbIES S. CHEW, AND MARY E. CHEW,
HIS WIFE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN B. BOGERT, ABRAHAM
"IYER, AND THADDEUS SMITH.
The law of Missouri allows the lands of a deceased debtor to be sold under execution, but prohibits it from being done until after the expiration of eighteen months
from the date of the letters of administration upon his estate.
Where the letters of administration were dated on the 1st of November, 1819, and the
sale took place on the 1st of May, 1821, the sale was valid. In this case the terminus a quo should be included.
Moreover, the sale was ordered to take place on that day by a court of competent
jurisdiction, and this makes the matter Tern judicatam, ind is evidence of the constraction which the courts of Missouri place upon their laws.
And, besides, the question of the regularity of ajudicial sale cannot be raised collaterally, except in case of fraud, in which the purchaser was a participant.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

159

Griffith et al. v. Bogert et al.

THis case came up by writ of error, from the circuit court of
the United States for the district of Missouri.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Crilttenden, for the plaintiffs in error,
and H1r. Geyer,for the defendants.
Those of Mr.Crittenden's points, which were included in the
decision of the court, were the two following: 1. Because the judgments themselves were void, so far as
they related to, or affected the lands, tenements, or hereditaments
of the intestate; or, if not, that the executions issued thereon,
dated respectively, the 28th of February, and 9th of April, 1821,
under or in virtue of which the sheriff sold the land in qiiestion,
were illegal, null and void, because issued before the expiration
of eigh teen months from the date (1st of November, 1819) of
the letters of administration of the estate of said intestate, and
were therefore issued in direct violation of the express provisions
of the before-recited act of the 25th of January, 1817 ; 8 Metcalf, 502.
2. Because the sale, in virtue of which said deed purports to
have been executed, was made on the 1st day of May, 1821,
and before the expiration of eighteen months from the date, (1st
of November, 1819,) of the said letters of administration, contrary to the express terms of the said act of 1817, and was,
therefore, illegal and void.
• The only questionable part of this proposition is, whether the
1st of May, 1821, is a day after the expiration of eighteen
months from the 1st of Novembe, 1819, or included in, and part
of the period. The reasonable and legal rule of computation
of time in such cases, is to exclude the first day, that is, the day
of the event or act from which the computation is to be made.
It is but the fraction of a day, and the law takes no notice or
account of it. This is believed to be the rule as now settled by
judicial discussions in Missouri. Gantly v.Ewing, 3 How. 707;
Kennon v. Osgood, 19 Mo. R. 60; Blaine v. Beehler, 12 Mo.
R. 477.
Upon the principal point in the case, IkTr. Geyer said : The sale was made on the 1st of May, 1821, which was after
the expiration of eighteen months, from the death of the intestate, or the date of the letters of administration, (1st of November, 1819,) construing the act of 1817 according to the rules and
principles which have been recognized and applied in analogous
cases.

I

It has been laid down in many cases as a general rule, that
where time is to be computed from an event or an act, the day
of the event or the performance of the act is to be included.

160

SUPREME

COURT.

Griffith et al. v. Bogert et al.

Norris v. The Hundred of the Gawthry, Hobart, 139; King, v.
Adderly, Douglass, 463 ; Castle v. Burdett, 3 Term R. 623;
Glassington v. Rawlings, 3 East, 407; Priest v. Tarlton, 3 N.
H. Rep. 93; Thomas v. Afflick, 16 Pa. R. 14; Robinet v. Compton, 2 La. An. R. 856; Pierpoint v. Graham, 4 Wash. C. C.
Rep. 232; Arnold v. United States, 9 Cranch, 104.
In some cases, the rule has been held to be, to exclude the day
of the act or event from the computation; in others, the day has
been excluded without laying down any general rule. King v.
Cumberlanq, 4 Nov. and M. 375; Judd v. Fulton, 10 Barl. 117;
Wing v. Davis, 7 Maine, 31 ; Ex parte v. Deane, 2 Cowen, 605 ;
Cornell v. Moulton, 3 Denio, 12; Snydor v. Warren, 2 Cowen,
518; S. B. Mary Blane v. Beehler, 12 Mo. R. 477; Kimm v.
Osgood's Administrators, 19 Mo. R. 60.
But it has been denied that there is any general rule, that the
day of the act or event from which time is to be computed is to
be included or excluded, and held that whether it is to be taken
inclusive or exclusive, depends upon the reason of the thing, the
context, and subject-matter. Lester v. Garland, 15 Vesey, Jr.,
248; Dowling v. Foxall, 1 Ball & Bealty, 196; Windsor v.
China, 4 Maine, 298 ; Bigelow v. Wilson, 1 Peck, 485 ; Presbury
v. Williams, 15 Mass. 193; Jones v. Planters' Bank, 5 Humphries, 619; O'Conner v. Towns, 1 Texas, 107.
In the earlier cases, "from the date" was generally held to be
inclusive, and " from the day of the date," exclusive, but the
doctrine now most generally received is, that there is no difference in the two forms of expression, both meaning the same
thing; and in the computation of time on promissory notes and
bills of exchange, the day of the date has generally been excluded; in other instances, it is held to be inclusive or exclusive,
according to the context and subject-matter. Pugh v. Duke of
Leeds, Cowper, 714, and cases there cited and reviewed ; Rand
v. Rand, 4 N. H. 267; Moore v. Bond, 18 Maine, 142; Wilcox
v. Wood, 9 Wend. 346.
It appears to have been very generally agreed that either the
first or the last day shall be included in the computation, and in
no case are both to be excluded or included, unless the contract
or statute upon which the question arises will admit of no other
construction. E-x parte v. Deane, 2 Cow. 605 ; Thomas v. Afflick, 16 Pa. R. 14 ; Sander's Heirs v. Norton, 4 Monroe, 474.
Upon a review of the cases, it appears that there is no general
rule in computing time from an act done or an event, or from a
date or the day of the date, that the day is to be inclusive or
exclusive; but, according to the adjudged cases, whether the
day in either case is to be included or excluded, depends upon
the reason of the thing, the subject-matter, and the context.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

161

Griffith et al. v. Bogert et al.

But the title of a bond fide purchaser, at judicial sales, is not
affected by any irregularities in the proceedings of the officer, or
in the process under which he sold; therefore, if the eighteen
months limited by the statute had not expired at the time of the
sale, under which the defendants hold, the sheriff's deed would
not, on that account, be void; at most, it would be voidable,
and could be impeached only in a direct proceeding, and not in
a collateral action. All that is necessary to support the title of
a purchaser in an action of ejectment, is the judgment, execution, levy, and sheriff's deed. Jackson v. Steinburg, 1 J. C.153;
Jackson v. Bartlett, 8 J. R. 361; Jackson v. Rosevelt, 13 J. R.
97; Same v. Delaney, 13 J. R. 535; Same v. Robbins, 16 J. R.
537; Brown v. Miller, 3 J. J. Marsh, 439; Lawrence v. Sheed,
2 Bibb, 401; Webber v. Stith & Cox, 6 Monroe, 101; Day v.
Graham, 1 Gel. (6 Ill.) R. 435 ; Swigart v. Harber, 4 Scam, 364 ;
Ware v. Bradford, 2 Al. R. 676; 19 do. 132; State Bank v.
Noland, 13 Ark. R. 299 ; Newton v. State Bank, 14 Ark. R.- 9;
Byers v. Fowler, 12 Ark. 218; Wheaton v. Sexton, 4 Wheat.
506; Hart v. Rector, 7. Mo. R. 531; Reed v. Heirs of Austin, 9
Mo. R. 722; Landes v. Perkins, 12 Mo. R. 254; Draper v. Bryson, 17 Mo. R. 71; Carson v. Walker, 16 Mo. R. 68; Robinett
v. Compton, 2 La. An. R. 856.

All the questions now raised were before the court, which was
a court of competent jurisdiction, and its acts cannot now be
impeached. 1 Baldwin, 246; 1 Serg. & Rawle, 101; 8 Serg.
& Rawle, 397; 2 Pet. 257; 10 Pet. 473; 2 How. 343.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintirs claim the land which is the subject of controversy
in this suit, as heirs of Isaac W. Griffith, who died seised of the
same in 1819. His estate was insolvent. Judgments were obtained against his administrators in 1820, executions were issued
thereon, and the property sold by the sheriff. The defendants
claim under the purchaser at this sale.
On the trial, the court below instructed the jury "that the
sheriff's deed, read in evidence under the judgments and executions also in evidence, was effectual to devest the title of the heirs
of Isaac H. Griffith to the land mentioned in said deed."
It is admitted, that in the State of Missouri the lands of a
deceased debtor may be taken in execution, and sold by the
sheriff, in satisfaction of a judgment against the administrator.
And also that such deed vests in the purchaser all the estate and
interest which the deceased had in the property at the time of
his death. But it is alleged that this sale is "without authority
of laW and void," because the execution was issued and sale
made before the time limited for stay of execution against the
14*

162

SUPREME

COURT.

Griffith et al. v. Bogert et al.

real estate of a decedent. The law and the facts, on which this
objection to.the validity of the sale is founded, are as follows: By an act of 1817, it is provided that "all lands, tenements,
and hereditaments shall be liable to be seized or sold upon judgment and execution obtained against the defendant or defendants, in full life, or against his or her heirs, executors, or
administrators, after the decease of the testate, or intestate;
provided no such land, tenements, or hereditaments shall be
seized and sold until after the expiration of eighteen months
from the death of such ancestor, or the date of the letters testamentary or letters of administration, and execution may issue
against such lands, tenements, and hereditaments, after the death,
testate or intestate, and after the time aforesaid, in the same
manner as if such person were living."
The letters of administration on the estate of Griffith are
dated on the 1st of November, 1819. The sale was made by
the sheriff on the 1st of May, 1821, on executions previously
issued.
It is contended that the term of eighteen months from the 1st
of November, 1819, had not expired on the 1st of May,
1821, and consequently the sale was without authority of law,
and void.
But we are of opinion that the assumption on which this inference is based is not correct; nor the inference correct, if the
assumption were granted.
If the day on which the letters of administration be counted
in the calculation, the term of eighteen months had "expired"
on the 1st of May, 1821.
Whether the terminus a quo should be so included, it must be
admitted, has been a vexed question for many centuries, both
among learned doctors of the civil law and the courts of England and this country. It has been termed by a writer on civil
law (Tiraqueau) the controversia controversissima.
In common and popular usage, the day a quo has always been
included, and such has been the general rule both of the Roman
and common law. The latter admits no fractions of a day;
the former, in some instances, as in cases of minority, calculated
de mnomento en momentum. The result of this subdivision was
to comprehend a part of the terminus a quo. But in cases where
fractions of a day were not admitted, as in those of usucaption
or prescription, a possession commencing on the 1st of January,
and ending on the 31st of December, was counted a full year.
It was in consequence of the uncertainty introduced on this
subject by the disquisitions and disputes of learned professors,
that Gregory IX., in his decretals, introduced the phrase of "a
year and a day," in order to remove the doubts thus created, as

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

163

Griffith et al. v. Bogert et al.

to whether the dies a quo should be included in the term. It thus
maintained the correctness of the common usage, while it satisfied the doubts of the doctors.
The earlier cases at common law show the adoption of the
popular usage as the general rule, but nany exceptions were introduced in its application to leases, limitations, &c., where a
forfeiture would ensue. But the cases are conflicting, and have
established no fixed rule as to such exceptions. - Lord Mansfield
reviews the cases before his time, in Pugh v. Leeds, Cowp. 714,
and comes to the conclusion "that the cases for two hundred
years had only served to embarrass a point which a plain man
of common sense and understanding would have no difficulty in
construing."
The rule he lays clovn in that case is, "1that courts of justice
ought to construe the words of parties so as to effectuate their
deeds and not destroy them; and that, 'from' the date, may in
vulgar use, and even in strict propriety of language, mean eitlher
inclusive or exclusive."
It would be tedious and unprofitable to attempt a review of
the very numerous modern decisions, or to lay down any rules
applicable to all cases. Every case must depend on its own
circumstances. Where the construction of the language of a
statute is doubtful, courts will always prefer that which will
confirm rather than destroy any bond fde transaction or title.
The intention and policy of the enactment should be sought for
and carried out. Courts should never indulge in nice grammatical criticism of prepositions or conjunctions, in order to
destroy rights honestly acquired.
In the present case there is no reason for departing from the
general rule and popular usage of treating the day from which
the term is to be calculated, or "'terminus a quo," as inclusive.
The object of the legislature was to give a stay of execution for
eighteen months, in order that the administrator might have an
opportunity of collecting the assets of the deceased and applying them to the discharge of his debts. The day on which the
letters issue may be used for this purpose as effectually as any
other in the year. The rights of the creditor to execution are
restrained by the act, for the benefit of the debtor's estate. The
administrator has had the number of days allowed to him by the
statute to collect his assets and pay the debts. The construction which would exclude the day of the date is invoked, not to
avoid a forfeiture or confirm a title, but to destroy one, obtained
by a purchaser in good faith under the sanction of a public
judicial sale.
If the statute in question were one of limitation, whereby the
remedy of the creditor would have been lost, unless execution

164

SUPREME COURT.
Griffith et al. v. Bogert et al.

had issued and sale been made within the eighteen months,
probably a different construction might have prevailed. Yet,
even in such a case, the precedents conflict. (See Cornell v.
Moulton, 3 Denio, 12; and Presbury v. Williams, 15 Mass. 193.)
But, if the correct application of the rule to the present case
were doubtful, the fact that this question was raised and decided
by the court between the parties to the judgment, and that the
court after considering the question, ordered the sale to be
made on the 1st of May, would be conclusive, not only as res
judicata inter partes, but as evidence of the received construction by the courts of Missouri, which it would be an abuse of
judicial discretion now to overturn.
Finally, there is another view of this case which is conclusive,
as regards this and all other objections taken by the counsel to
the validity of the sheriff's deed. It is the well-known and
established rule of law in Missouri and elsewhere, that a judicial
sale and title acquired under the proceedings of a court of competent jurisdiction cannot be questioned collaterally, except in
case of fraud, in which the purchaser was a participant. (See
Grignon v. Astor, 2 How. 319.) The cases -of Reed v. Austin,
9 Mo. R. '72; of Landes v. Perkins, 12 Mo. 239; Carson
v. Walker, 16 Mo. 68, and Draper v. Bryson, 17 Mo. 71, show
that this principle of the common law is the received and established doctrine of the courts of Missouri.
The sheriff's deed in the present case is founded on a regular
judgment in a court of competent jurisdiction, and an execution
on said judgment issued by authority of the court, and levied on
property subject by law to be taken and sold to satisfy the judgment. The writ authorized the sheriff to sell; a sale was made
in pursuance thereof by the sheriff, and a deed executed to the
purchaser, which was afterwards acknowledged in open court
according to law. At this time, all parties interested could and
would have been heard to allege any irregularity in the proceedings that would justify the court in setting it aside. The objections to this sale do not reach the power of the court, or the
authority of the sheriff to sell. The issuing of an execution on
a judgment before the stay of execution has elapsed, or after a
year and day without reviving the judgment, the want of proper
advertisements by the sheriff, and other like irregularities, may
be sufficient ground for setting aside the execution or sale, on
motion of a party to the suit, or any one interested in the proceedings; but when the objections are waived by them, and the
judicial sale founded on these proceedings is confirmed by the
court, it would be injurious to the peace of the community and
the security of titles to permit such objections to the title to be
heard in a collateral action.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

165

Little et al. v. Hall et al.

On every view of the case, we are of opinion that the title of
the purchaser is protected by the established rules of law, and
that there was no error in the instructions given to the jury by
the court below.
The judgment of the circuit court is therefore affirmed.

EDWIN C. LITTLE AND OLIVER SCOVILL, APPELLANTS, v. LEvi
W. H LL, ANTHONY GOULD, DAVID BANKS, WIIMA GOULD,
AND DAVID BANKS, JR.
On the 27th of December, 1847, George F. Comstock was appointed state reporter,
under a statute of the State of New York, which office he held until the 27th of
December, 1851.
During his term of office, viz. in 1850, he, in conjunction with the comptroller and
secretary of the State, acting under the authority of a statute, made an agreement
with certain persons, that for five years to come they should have the publication
of the decisions of the court of appeals and the exclusive benefit of the copyright.
At the expiration of Mr. Comstock's term, viz. on the 27th of December, 1851, he
had in his possession sundry manuscript notes, and the decisions made at the ensuing January term were also placed in his hands to be reported. Out of these
materials he made a volume, and sold it upon his own private account.
Whatever remedy the first assignees may have had against 31r. Comstock individually,
they are not to be considered as the legal owners of the manuscript, under the copyright act of congress, and are not entitled to an injunction to prevent the publication
and sale of the volume.

Tins was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the northern district of New York.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by fr. Seward, for the plaintiffs in error, and
Mr. Haven, for the defendants.
31r. Seward made the following points :
1. Comstock, by accepting the office of state reporter, and acting under it, and by uniting with the secretary of state and
comptroller in the contract with the appellants of April 20, 1850,
must be deemed to have accepted the terms and conditions of
the act of April 11, 1848, and of ipril 9, 1850. And those
statutes operated, by reason of such acquiescence on his part, to
vest in the State of New York all the interest and right which
he might have, as author, in any reports of decisions of the court
of appeals which should be prepared by him as reporter; and
the State became the absolute owner thereof.
2. By the contract made by tie state reporter, the secretary
of state, and the comptroller, on behalf of the State, with the
appellants, the interest of the State in all matter constituting
the reports to be made by Comstock, as reporter, was equitably

