DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

235

McKinney v. Saviego et ux.

My opinion is, that for want of jurisdiction in the case presented upon the face of the libel, that libel should have been
dismissed by the circuit court, and that this court should now,
for that cause, order it to be dismissed.

JOHN F. MCKINNEY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. MANUEL SAVIEGO,
AND PnLAR, HIS WIFE.
Where a person, who owned land in Texas whilst it was a part of Mexico, removed
into Mexico prior to the declaration of independence by Texas, and continued to
reside in Mexico until her death, her danhter, who was also a citizen of Mexico,
could not, as heir, recover the land in Texas.
By the laws which governed Texas before the revolution, the proprietor of land must
have resided within the jurisdiction of the Mexican government, and foreigners
could not inherit land.
The constitution of Texas considered as aliens all those who did not reside there at
the time of the declaration of independence, unless they were afterwards naturalized; and also decreed that no alien should hold land in Texas, except by titles
emanating directly from the government of that republic.
The legislature of Texas had power to modify these rules, but did not change them in
this respect when it introduced the common law by statute. Upon the death of the
ancestor the estate was cast upon the State, without the necessity of an inquest of
office.
The constitution and laws of Texas provide for the case of an alien heir who may
inherit from a citizen, but not for an alien heir inheriting from an alien.
The treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo provides for those INexicans who inhabited territories ceded to the United States, but had no relation to Texas.
THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the district
court of the United States for the district of Texas.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

It was submitted on printed arguments by fr. Hale, for the
plaintiff in error, and by iUf. ITghes, for the defendants.
The arguments involved many points of the old Mexican law,
but the principal one was thus stated by Mr. Hale, in his additional brief: The plaintiffs, in their petition, describe themselves as aliens,
and in the thirteenth instruction which they requested, they assume that both the female plaintiff and her mother were aliens to
the republic of Texas, and that the former is still an alien to the
United States. It is evident, therefore, that at the time of the
death of Gertrudis Barrera, the female plaintiff was, with respect
to the land in Texas, the alien child of an alien, and the first
question is, could she take the estate by inheritance ?
The tenth article of the general provisions of the constitution

of the republic of Texas, Hart. Dig. p. 88, provides that "no
alien shall hold land in Texas, except by titles emanating directly

236

SUPREME COURT.
McKinney r,.Saviego et ux.

from the government of this republic. But if any citizen of this
republic should die intestate or otherwise, his children or heirs
shall inherit his estate, and aliens shall have a reasonable time
to take possession and dispose of the same in a manner hereafter to be pointed out by law," &c. It is clear that the latter
part of this provision, which gives to aliens a reasonable time to
take possession and dispose of" the same," relates to the estate
of a citizen of the republic, and not to that of an alien ; and that
the power given to the congress of the republic to point out the
manner in which this disposition should be made, authorizes
only laws relating to the estates of citizens. The 14th section
of the act of January 28, 1840, cited in the original brief, should,
therefore, be restricted to this case; and of this opinion were the
supreme court of Texas, in the case of Cryer v. Andrews, 11
Texas, 181, where this clause of the constitution and this act
are said to be "in relation to the alien heirs of a deceased citizen." The capacity of the alien children of an alien is thus left
to be determined by the general prohibition of the constitution
and by the principles of the common law, introduced into Texas,
as a body, by the act of January 20, 1840, before the death of
the plaintiff's ancestor. Hart. Dig. art. 127. And upon these,
there can be no question that the female plaintiff, Pilar, being
an alien, did not take the land in Texas, by descent, from her
mother; and that the district court erred in giving the thirteenth
instruction requested by her counsel.
Mr.Hughes contended that Gertrudis Barrera did not lose her
land by removing to Tamaulipa before the declaration of independence, because the 8th section of that instrument was prospective. " All persons who shall leave the country," &c. Hart.
Dig. 87.
Even if the land were liable to forfeiture, the 13th article, ยง 4,
declared that "the legislature shall, by law, provide a method for
determining what lands may have been forfeited or escheated."
Until this was done, the title remained as it was.
The articles 585, 600 (Hart. Dig.) allowed an alien to take by
descent. The 38th article allowed the alien heirs of citizens a
reasonable time to dispose of their property ; but this included
alien heirs of an alien, because the section provides that it shall
be no bar to a descent that one of the ancestors of the claimant
wbs an alien.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of
The defendants (Saviego and wife) claimed, in
court, two and one half leagues of land lying in the
Goliad and Refugio, il Twcas, as an inheritance

the court.
the district
counties of
ot Madame

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

237

McKinney v. Saviego et ux.

Saviego, from her mother, Gertrudis Barrera, who died in Matamoros, in Mexico, in 1842.
Gertrudis Barrera acquired, in 1834, one league of the locus
in quo by donation, and the remainder by purchase under the
colonization laws of the State of Coahuila and Texas, while it
formed a part of the republic of Mexico. She occupied and improved the land until the commencement of the revolutionary
movements in Texas, in 1835, but prior to the declaration of
independence in that year she emigrated and became a resident
of Matamoros, where she continued until her death. The plaintiffs were also citizens of Coahuila and Texas, but abandoned
their connection with Texas in company with their ancestress,
and have retained their status as Mexican citizens.
They are described oil the record as aliens and citizens, and
residents of the city of Matamoros, in the State of Tamaulipas,
in the republic of Mexico. The defendant claimed the land by
virtue of locations and surveys of valid land certificates, which
had been regularly returned to the general land-office, in Texas,
before the 31st August, 1853.
A number of questions are presented in the bill of exceptions,
but the opinion the court has formed upon the 12th, 13th, and
14th instructions, given at the instance of the plaintiffs, in the
district court, renders it unnecessary for us to consider any others.
These instructions are as follows :"12. If Gertrudis Barrera was a citizen of the republic of
Mexico, domiciliated within the State of Coahuila and Texas
when the land in question was granted to her, her abandonment
of the State of Coahuila and Texas, and settlement in Matamoros, in the State of Tamaulipas, after the commencement of
the revolution in Texas, and before the declaration of Texan
independence, was not a forfeiture of the land so granted, ndr
did the land thereby become vacant; and after the close of the
revolution in Texas, she would have been authorized to enforce
her right, had she then been living.
"1g. If Madame Barrera died in Tamaulipas, in 1842, then
being a citizen of the said State of Tamaulipas, domiciliated
there, and the female plaintiff was her only heir, she too being a
citizen of, and domiciliated in Tamaulipas, said heir could and
did take, by the law here, the land in contest, by descent, and
had a right to enforce her title by descent, to the same extent
that her ancestor could have done, but subject, as she is an alien,
to forfeiture by proceedings on the part of the State.
"14. But if no proceedings were instituted and perfected before the late treaty between the United States and Mexico, the
right in said heir becomes perfect, and not subject to forfeiture,
by virtue of the 8th article of said treaty."

238

SUPREME COURT.
McKinney v. Saviego et ux.

It is settled, in the jurisprudence of Texas, that the colonization laws of Coahuila and Texas annex, as an enduring and
peremptory condition, to all titles issued by their authority, that
the grantee, so long as he remains the proprietor, shall continue
his domicile within the republic of Mexico, of which that State
formed a part. A change of domicile operated to defeat the
estate of the grantee, and to restore the land without incumbrance to the public domain, so that, without a judicial or other
inquiry, it might be regranted. The same jurisprudence recognizes the prohibition upon foreigners to inherit lands in Mexico,
for the owners of lands were subject to charges and obligations
which citizens could alone perform. Halleman v. Peebles, 1
Texas, 673; Horton v. Brown, 2 ibid. 78; Yates v. James,
10 ibid. 168.
The conduct of Gertrudis Barrera and her children, the defendants in this suit, after the commencement of the revolutionary movements in Texas, and which separated that State from
Mexico, deprived them of all claim to political rights in the new
republic, and placed them under the civil disabilities of foreigners under its laws. The constitution of Texas, of 1836, identified
as citizens only such persons as were residing in Texas on the
day of the declaration of independence, or should be naturalized
according to its provisions. Hart. Dig. 35, 38; Inglis v. Trustees
of the Sailors' Snug Harbor, 3 Pet. 99. The same instrument
provided that "no alien shall hold land in Texas, except by titles
emanating directly from the government of this republic," (11art.
Dig. 38, ยง 10,) and provided that congress should, as early as
practicable, introduce by statute the common law of England,
with such modifications as the circumstances of the State might
require. This duty was performed in 1840, by an enactment
that "the common law of England, so far as it is not inconsistent with the constitution or acts of congress now in force, shall,
together with such acts, be the rule of decision in this republic,
and shall continue in full force until altered or repealed by
congress."
The common-law authorities clearly establish that
Madame Saviego, under the circumstances, is not deemed to be
an heir at law, having no inheritable blood, and, in the absence of
such heirs, the estate would be cast immediately upon the State,
without inquest of office. Orr v. Hodgson, 4 Wheat. 453;
Hardy v. De Leon, 5 Texas, 211, 242.
We shall now examine if there are other provisions in the
laws of Texas to relieve the defendants from the apparent disability.
The coistitution of Texas, by way of exception to the general
inhibition po it he, Lo - hold lands except hy titles emanating
dh'ectly from tie repuitlic," declares, thaL1 if any citizen .hould

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

239

McKinney v. Saviego et ux.

die-intestate or otherwise, his children or heirs shall inherit his
estate, and alieng shall have a reasonable time to take possession
of and dispose of the same in a manner hereafter to be pointed
out by law." The 10th section of the law of distribution and
descent, (Hart. Dig. art. 585,) provides: " In making title to
land by descent, it shall be no bar to a party that any ancestor,
through whom he derives his descent from the intestate, is or
bath been an alien; and every alien to whom any land may be
devised or may descend, shall have nine years to become a citizen of the republic and take possession of such land ; or shall
have nine years to sell the same, before it shall be declared forfeited, or before it shall escheat to the government." The first
clause of this section is substantially a re-enactment of the statute of 11 and 12 William III. c. 6, and removes no other defect
than the want of inheritable blood arising from the alienage of
some person through whom the heir must deduce his claim.
McCreery v. Somerville, 9 Wheat. 354.
The second clause modifies the existing laws which regulate
the capacities of aliens to take or hold real property in the State,
whether by devise or descent.
But the remedial effect of the act does not extend beyond the
disability of an alien heir. It contains no enactment in favor of
an alien who may have acquired possession or property in lands,
whereby he could make a valid bequest or transmit it to his
heirs, whether aliens or citizens by descent.
The act of which this section forms a part is framed for the
disposal of the estates of those having "title to any estate in
inheritance, and regulates its descent or distribution." The
prohibition in the constitution upon aliens to hold lands in
Texas, and the limited powers of congress to introduce favorable conditions in favor of alien heirs, must be remembered in
ascertaining its meaning. The constitution had provided for the
transmission of the estates of citizens to their children or heirs,
(being citizens,) and then provides that congress shall legislate
to give to aliens a reasonable time to take possession and to dispose of such an inheritance. Neither the language of the act
nor the policy of the State, as it may be discovered from its
constitutions and laws, authorizes the conclusion that an alien,
claiming real property in Texas, can transmit it, by descent, to
an heir who is also an alien.
The subject-matter to which these provisions all relate is the
estates of citizens; arid we cannot apply their conditions to the
special and peculiar case of ail inheritance claimed by an alien
heir in the right of an alien intestate. The question has not
arisen, so far as we can discover, in the courts of Texas ; but in
the case of Cryer v. Andrews, 11 Texas, 170. the court -eoms to
assume that the act we have considered was a cgvlative con-

240

SUPREME COURT.
McKinney v. Saviego et ux.

pliance with the constitutional guarantees in favor of the alien
heirs of deceased citizens; and that the alien heir must, within
nine years, sell the lands or become a citizen. In the present
instance, citizenship has not been acquired, which that court
seems to treat as a prerequisite to an entry dn the inheritance.
The last question remaining for consideration arises on the
8th section of the treaty with the republic of Mexico of the 2d
February, 1848, (9 Stats. at Large, 923,) called the treaty of
Guadaloupe Hidalgo. The first clause of that article provides
" for the Mexicans now established in territories previously belonging to Mexico, and which remain for the future within the
limits of the United States." The second clause provides for
those who shall prefer to remain in the said territories, and they
are authorized to retain the title of Mexican citizens or acquire
the rights of citizens of the United States. The third clause
prescribes, "that in the said territories property of every kind,
now belonging to Mexicans not established there, shall be inviolably respected. The present owners, the heirs of these, and
all Mexicans who may hereafter acquire said property by contract, shall enjoy with respect to it guarantees equally ample as
if the same belonged to citizens of the United States." To
what territories did the high contracting parties refer to in this
article ? We think it clear that they did not refer to any portion
of the acknowledged limits of Texas. The territories alluded to
are those which had, previously to the treaty, belonged to Mexico, and which, after the treaty, should remain within the limitsof the United States. The republic of Texas had been many
years before acknowledged by the United States as existing separately and independently of Mexico; and as a separate and
independent State it had been admitted to the Union. The
government of the United States, by that act, had conferred
upon the population established there all the privileges within
their constitutional competency to grant.
The various stipulations contained in this article are wholly
inapplicable to the persons who, before the revolution in Texas,
had been citizens of Mexico, and who, by that revolution, had
been separated from it.
The right of property, to which this article of the treaty was
designed to afford a guarantee, extended to property of every
kind which, at its date, belonged to Mexican citizens, (" now belonging to Mexicans,") not established within the territories then
ceded to the United States. In the present instance, the republic of Texas had acquired title many years before, and the land
at the date formed a part of its public domain.
Our conclusion is, that the judgment of the district court
should be reversed, and the cause remanded to that court for
further proceedings.

