DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

565

Dennistoun et al. v. Stewart.

We have some unsatisfactory evidence that Larkin, either in
1847 or 1848 sent a Spaniard to enter upon this land; a camp,
in which he might find a shelter and some conveniences for
collecting cattle, form the facts of this settlement.
Neither Jimeno nor Larkin entered upon or occupied the
land. This evidence merely shows that Larkin was laying the
foundations for a claim upon the United States, and was wholly
unconnected with the Mexican regulations. The evidence satisfies me that this claim was fabricated after the difficulties
between the United States and Mexico had occurred, with a
view to enable the American consul at Monterey to profit from
it, in the event of the cession of the country to the United
States. I lay no stress upon the fact that the papers are found
in the archives. I presume Jimeno was the keeper of those
archives. I dissent from the judgment of the court confirming
this claim.

DENNISTOUN, JOHN DENNISTOUN, WILLIAM MYLINE, AND WILLIAM WOOD, PARTNERS, UNDER THE STYLE OF

ALEXANDER

A. DENNISTOUN AND CO., PLAINTIFFS, V. ROGER STEWART.
Where questions are certified up to this court, in consequence of a division in opinion
between the judges of the circuit court, they must be questions of law and not
questions of fact; not such as involve or imply conclusions or judgment by the
judges, upon the weight or effect of testimony or facts, adduced in the cause.
The questions must also be distinctly and particularly stated with reference to that
part of the case upon which such questions shall have arisen.
The points stated must be single, and must not bring up the whole case for decision.

THIS case came up from the circuit court of the United States
for the southern district of Alabama, upon a certificate of division
in opinion between the judges thereof.
The case was before the court at the preceding term, and is
reported in 17 How. 606.
The certificate of division commenced as follows, namely :
Certficate of -Division of Ovinion.
CIRCUIT COURT OF THE U. S.,
Southern Dist. of Ala.
A. DENNlSTOUN AND Co.)
V.

JAMES REI AND CO.
Upon the trial of this cause in the circuit court aforesaid, the
defendant, among other defences to the case of the plaintiffs,
insisted that the plaintiffs had surrendered, to one Byrne, a bill
of lading for ten hundred and fifty-eight bales of cotton on The
VO.. XVIIl.

48

SUPREME COURT.
Dennistoun et al. v. Stewart.

Windsor Castle, whereby the said Byrne was enabled to dispose of the said cotton, and apply the proceeds otherwise than
for the payment of the bill upon which this suit was brought,
against the rights and interests of the said defendant, whereby
he was injured to the whole amount of the bill. And upon the
point of this defence the depositions of Joseph Bramwell, Robert Barrett, Robert Winthrop, A. E. Byrne, Orlando Jones,
Andrew Stewart, Charles Livingston, Moses Joynson, T. D.
Anderson, and Win. Moreland, which are hereunto attached,
were read to the jury, and formed the testimony relied on by
the parties in reference to such defence. And upon the instructions proper to be given to the jury upon the said defence, the
following questions arose, and upon which the members of the
court were opposed and divided in opinion (Then followed the questions as they are stated in the opinion
of the court.)
The case was argued by Mr. Phillips, for the plaintiffs, and
submitted on a printed argument by Mr. Stewart, for himself.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause comes before us upon a certificate of division in
opinion between the judges of the circuit court of the United
States for the 5th circuit and southern district of Alabama.
The evidence before the circuit court on which the division in
opinion arose was of the following character The defendant, on the 9th day of September, 1850, at Mobile,
in the names of James Reid and Co., of which firm the defendant was a member, drew a bill on Henry Goa Booth, at Liverpool, for the sum of forty-four hundred and seventeen pounds
fourteen shillings and eleven pence sterling, payable at sixty
days' sight, to the order of the drawers in London, on account of
1,058 bales of cotton, shipped by the drawers to the drawee by
the ship Windsor Castle.
This bill was indorsed by the defendant, by the name and
style of his firm, to the plaintiffs, and, after acceptance, having
been returned protested for non-payment, an action of assurnpsit
was brought for the amount of the bill and charges by the indorsees against the defendant as drawer.
Upon the trial before the circuit court there were introduced
and read the testimony of sundry witnesses, examined on the
part both of the plaintiffs and the defendant.
The object of the plaintiffs was to sustain their right of
recovery upon the bill, by showing that this right had not been
lost or impaired by any irregularity or delinquency of the plaintiffs as indorsees and holders of the-bill for value.

DECEM1BER

TERM1, 1855.

Dennistoun et al. v.

567

Stewart.

By the evidence adduced by the defendant it was designed to
show that, previously to the purchase of the 1,058 bales of cotton, and as a part of the agreement on which the purchase was
to be made, the defendant, or the person or persons by whom
the funds for that purchase should be advanced, should hold the
bill of lading of the cargo as security for such advances ; that
this agreement was adopted by the plaintiffs, who required and
received the bill of lading as a precedent condition to their
purchase of the bills drawn on Booth by the defendant; that
the bill of lading thus received as a security, was transmitted
by the plaintiffs to a branch of their firm in Liverpool, and by
the Liverpool branch, with the knowledge and in violation of
that agreement, was surrendered to one Byrne, a creditor of
Booth, and thus diverted from the purposes it was intended to
secure.
Upon the instructions prayed from the court to the jury, the
court were divided in opinion upon the following questions: 1. Whether the firm of Dennistoun, Wood, and Co., of
New York, or the plaintiffs, were bound to hold the said bill of
lading for the shipment on the said Windsor Castle as a security
for the bill of exchange described in the declaration, and whether
any amount of loss arising to the said defendant from their
failure to hold the said bill for the purpose of securing the proceeds of the cotton specified therein, for the payment of the bill
of exchange described in the declaration, can be used as a defende against the bill, or any part thereof.
2. Whether the said Dennistoun and Co. were required to
hold the said bill of lading as a security for any bill of exchange
drawn by the defendant or his agents upon the said shipment
of cotton, other than those to which the same was attached, or
of which they, the said plaintiffs, had specific and direct notice
at the time of the settlement with Byrne in the manner stated
in the depositions; and whether notice to Dennistoun, Wood,
and Co., in New York, was operative as a notice to the plaintiffs in Liverpool; though no notice was received by the house in
Liverpool of such outstanding bill before said settlement.
3. Whether, if the plaintiffs surrendered the said bill of lading
to the said Byrne, under a promise from him that the proceeds
of the cotton should be applied to the payment of bills that
might come forward, and that this bill should subsequently
come forward; and that the plaintiffs have failed to sue said
Byrne, or to take any other legal proceeding against him, and
that the said Byrne has the proceeds of the cotton more than
sufficient to pay the bill, these facts or any other facts in connection therewith that are contained in the said testimony, offer any
defence against the case of the plaintiffs.

568

SUPREME COURT.
Dennistoun et al. v. Stewart.

4. Whether any view of the evidence introduced upon the
said trial and hereto attached, would warrant the jury in finding
for the defendant, upon this'point of the defence to the case of
the plaintiffs.
5. And the further question arose, whether the statute of Alabama regulating the damages upon bills of exchange like the
present, returned under protest, regulates the rate of damage in
this case.
We think that our jurisdiction of the questions certified on
the record of this cause is forbidden by previous decisions of
this court, bearing upon those questions considered separately,
as well as upon the case as presented by them in an aggregate
point of view.
In the interpretations by this court of the act of congress of
April 29, 1802, authorizing divisions of opinion at circuit to be
certified, the following requisites have been prescribed as indispensable to the jurisdiction of this court over questions upon
which the judges shall have been opposed in opinion.
1. They must be questions of law and not questions of fact,
- not such as involve or imply conclusions or judgment by the
judges upon the weight or effect of testimony or facts adduced
in the cause. Vide Wilson v. Barnum, 8 How. 258. And the
question or questions upon which the judges were opposed in
opinion must be distinctly and particularly stated with reference
to that part of the case upon which such question or questions
shall have arisen. Vide The United States v. Briggs, 5 How.
208. It is said by the chief justice in delivering the opinion
of the court in this case, "we are not authorized to decide in
such cases unless the particular point upon which the judges
differed is stated" ; again he says: "the difference of opinion is
indeed stated to have been on the point whether the demurrer
should be sustained. But such a question can hardly be called
a point in the case within the meaning of the act of congress,
for it does not show whether the difficulty arose upon the construction of thd act of congress on which the indictment was
founded, or upon the form of proceeding adopted to inflict the
punishment or upon any supposed defect in the counts in the
indictment. On the contrary, the whole case is ordered to be
certified upon the indictment, demurrer, and joinder, leaving this
court to look into the record to determine for itself, whether any
sufficient objection can be made in bar of the prosecution.
2. The points stated must be single, and must not bring up
the whole case for decision.
In the establishment of this position, the rulings of this court
have been reiterated, and most explicit.
Beginning with the case of the United States v. John Bailey,

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

569

Dennistoun et al. v. Stewart.

9 Pet. 257, it is in that case declared by the late chief
justice, that "the language of the 6th section of the act to
amend the judicial system of the United States, shows conclusively, that congress intended to provide for a division of opinion
on single points which frequently occur in the trial of a cause ;
not to enable a circuit court to transfer an entire cause into this
court before a final judgment; a construction which would
authorize such a transfer would counteract the policy which forbids writs of error or appeals until the judgment or decree be
final." To the same effect, and enunciated in language equally
if not even more explicit, will be found the decisions of Adams
and Co. v. Jones, 12 Pet. 207; of White v. Turk et al. Ib.
238; of Nesmith v. Sheldon et al. 6 How. 41; of Webster v.
Cooper, 10 Ib.54.
Upon the trial in the circuit court the examination of witnesses was introduced and relied on both by plaintiffs and defendant to show the nature of the agreement upon which the
cargo of The Windsor Castle was purchased, and upon which
the plaintiffs consented to purchase and did purchase the bills
drawn by the defendant upon Booth; the character of the
security proffered and said to have been accepted in the bill of
lading for the indemnity of the plaintiffs in purchasing the bills
drawn upon Booth, and the obligation of the same plaintiffs
not to surrender that security, nor to use it to the detriment of
the defendant. The case was not placed before the judges upon
any general or settled principle of the law-merchant, nor was
their opposition in opinion founded upon a case moulded and
governed simply by that law, but they have divided upon a case
which was or might have been affected by facts heard in evidence, the influence of which facts, as controlling the acts and
obligations of the parties, fell peculiarly and properly within the
province of the jury.
Again, we do not think that the certificate of the judges of the
circuit court conforms to the settled interpretation of the act of
congress as expounded by the cases cited, in presenting to this
court any single or specific question of law arising in the progress
of the cause, but that it refers to this court the entire law of the
case as it might arise upon all the facts supposed by the court,
and which have not been found by the jury. We are therefore
of the opinion that this court cannot take jurisdiction of this case
as certified from the circuit court, but that it should be remanded
to that court to be proceeded in according to law.

