DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

521

Stairs et al. v. Peaslee.

with the positive enactments of congress, upon the jurisdiction
or practice, or proceedings of such courts.
The general commercial law being circumscribed within no
local limits, nor committed for its administration to any peculiar
jurisdiction, and the constitution and laws of the United States
having conferred upon the citizens of the several States, and
upon aliens, the power or privilege of litigating and enforcing
their rights acquired under and defined by that general commercial law, before the judicial tribunals of the United States, it
must follow by regular consequence, that any state law or
regulation, the effect of which would be to impair the rights
thus secured, or to devest the federal courts of cognizance
thereof, in their fullest acceptation under the commercial law,
must be nugatory and unavailing. The statute of Mississippi,
so far as it may be understood to deny, or in any degree to
impair the right of a non-resident holder of a bill of exchange,
immediately after presentment to, and refusal to accept by the
drawee, and after protest and notice, to resort forthwith to the
courts of the United States by suit upon such bill, must be
regarded as wholly without authority and inoperative. The
same want of authority may be affirmed of a provision in the
statute which would seek to render the right of recovery by the
holder, after regular presentment and protest, and notice for nonacceptance, dependent upon proof of subsequent presentment,
protest, and notice for non-payment.
A requisition like this would be a violation of the general
commercial law, which a State would have no power to impose,
and which the courts of the United States would be bound to
disregard.
We think that the instruction given by the circuit court in this
case was erroneous; that its decision should be, as it is hereby
reversed; and the cause is remanded to the circuit court, to be
proceeded in upon a venire de novo, in conformity with the
principles above ruled.

WILLIAM

STAIRS AND ANOTHER,

PLAINTIFFS, V. CHARLES

H.

PEASLEE.
The tariff act of March 3, 1851, (9 Stats. at Large, 629,) repealed so much of the former
laws as provided that merchandise, when imported from a country other than that
of production or manufacture, should be appraised at the market value of similar
articles at the principal markets of the country of production or manufacture, at the
period of the exportation to the United States.
44 *

522

SUPREME

COURT.

Stairs et al. v. Peaslee.
It must he appraised according to the value of the goods in the principal markets of
the country from which they are exported.
only, andtothe
for
Therefore
cutch, iswhich
is a product
the East Indies
which, there,
Calcutta,
must beofappraised,
not according
its great
value market
there, but
atLondon and Liverpool, which are the principal markets of Great Britain,
exclusive of India; and not at Halifax, from which place it was brought into the
United States.
The word "country," mentioned above, embraces all the possessions of a foreign
state, however widely separated, which are subject to the same supreme executive
and legislative control.
It is for the merchant appraisers to decide what markets in these dominions are the
principal ones for the goods in question, and their decision is final.
The penal duty of twenty per centumn exacted by the 8th section of the tariff act of
July 30, 1846, (9 Stats. at Large, 43,) is properly levied upon goods entered at their
invoice value, if it is found to be ten per cent below the dutiable value, as well as
those goods where the importer makes an addition to the invoice value.
The case of Bartlett v. Kane, 16 How. 263, commented upon.

THIS case came up, on a certificate of division in opinion
between the judges of the circuit court of the United States for
the district of Massachusetts.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Griswold, for the plaintiffs, and Mr.
Gillet, for the defendant.
Mr. Griswold's first and fourth points were as follows: 1. The tariff act of March 3, 1851, did not repeal so much
of former laws as provided that merchandise, when imported
from a country other than that of production or manufacture,
should be appraised at tie market value of similar articles at the
principal markets of the country of production or manufacture,
at the period of the exportation to the United States. But that
the provision in the 16th section of the tariff act of 1842 is still
in force. Act Aug. 30, 1842, c. 270, § 16, 5 Stats. at Large,
564; Act March 3, 1851, c. 38, § 1, 9 Ib. 629 ; Act July 30,
1846, c. 74, § 8, 9 lb. 43.
(a) Because congress in passing the tariff act of March 3,
1851, did not intend to repeal or modify the proviso in the 16th
section of the tariff act of August 30, 1842. But only so much
of the main body of the section as provided that merchandise,
when imported from the country of production or manufacture,
should be liable to duty on the appraised value at the time when
purchased.
And the intention, if it can be ascertained, must govern in
the interpretation of these statutes. Greely v. Thompson et al.
10 How. 225; Norcross v. Greely, 1 Curtis, 116; Barnard et
al. v. Morton, Ib. 409.
(b) Because the act of March 3, 1851, was passed in consequence of the decision by this court in the case of Greely v.
Thompson et al. 10 How. 225, and Maxwell v. Griswold,
Ib. 242, to the effect that by the 16th section of the tariff act of

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

523

Stairs et al. v. Peaslee.

August 30, 1842, merchandise, when imported from the country
of production or manufacture, was liable to duty on the
appraised value thereof at the time when purchased, and not at
the period of the exportation, as had been claimed by the
secretary of the treasury.
And the intention of congress was simply to change the time
with reference to which the value should be appraised, from the
time when purchased, to the period of the exportation. Greely v.
Thompson et al. 10 How. 225; Maxwell v. Griswold et al. 10
Ib. 242; Norcross v. Greely, 1 Curtis, 116; Barnard et al. v.
Morton, Ib. 409 ; 1 Kent's Com. 462 ; Act March 3, 1851, c. 88,
§ 1, 9 Stats. at Large, 629; Act July 30, 1846, c. 74, § 8, 9 Ib.
43 ; Act Aug. 30, 1842, c. 270, § 16, 5 lb. 564 ; Act March 1,
1823, c. 21, § 5, 3 Ib. 733 ; Act May 19, 1828, c. 55, §§ 8, 9, 4 Ib.
274; Act July 14, 1832, c. 227, § 7, 4 Ib. 592.
(c) Because sect. 1 of the tariff act of March 3, 1851, is
not repugnant to, or inconsistent with, the proviso in the 16th
section of the tariff act of August 30, 1842, but is cumulative,
and should be construed with it, in pari iateria. United States
v. Sixty-seven Packages of Dry Goods, 17 How. 93; Wood
v. United States, 16 Pet. 364; United States v. Freeman, 3
How. 564; Daviess et al. v. Fairbairn et al. Ib. 646; Morlot v.
Lawrence, 1 Blatch, 612; Saving Institution v. Makin, 23 Maine,
360.
4. If the court shall hold that the appraisements of the
cutch' were legally made, still the additional duty of twenty per
centum under the 8th section of the act of 1846 was wrongfully
exacted by the defendant.
(a) Because the additional duty provided by the 8th section
of the act of 1846 applies only in cases where the importer or
consignee, on entry of merchandise, has voluntarily added to the
invoice value. Act 1846, c. 74, § 8, 9 Stats. at Large, 43;
Kreisler v. Morton, 1 Curtis, 415.
(b) Because the 17th section of the act of 1842 is still in
force, and this imposes on merchandise which has been procured
by purchase, an additional duty of fifty per cent of the duty
prescribed by law, in case the appraised value thereof exceeds
by ten per cent, or more, the invoice value ; and this section
embraces and applies to all cases of purchased goods, where the
owner, importer, or consignee has not, on entry thereof, voluntarily added to the invoice value. Kreisler v. Morton, 1 Curtis,
415 ; Act 1846, § 8, 9 Stats. at Large, 43.
(c) Because the 8th section of the act of 1846 secures to
owners, importers, and consignees of imports which have been
actually purchased, the right of making such additions to the
invoices on entry thereof, as shall, in their opinion, raise the

524

SUPREME COURT.
Stairs et al. v. Peaslee.

same to the true market value of such imports in the principal
markets, &c., &c., - (a privilege not enjoyed under the 17th section of the act of 1842 ;) - and it also provides that if the owner,
importer, or consignee, having availed himself of this privilege,
fails to make a sufficient addition to his invoice, he shall pay an
additional duty of twenty per cent on the appraised value, - a
severer penalty than is inflicted by the 17th section of the act
of 1842.
(d) Because the additional duty provided by the 17th section
of the act of 1842 is not inconsistent with, or repugnant to, that
in the 8th section of the act of 1846 ; because the latter is only
applicable to cases of declarations of increased values voluntarily
made by the owner, consignee, or agent on entry.
(e) Because the basis of appraisement by the two sections are
entirely different.
By the 17th section of the act of 1842, if the appraised value
exceed by ten per cent or more, the invoice value, then fifty per
cent of the duty prescribed by law is to be added ; while by the
8th section of the act of 1846, if the appraised value exceed by
ten per cent or more, the value declared in the entry, then an
additional duty of twenty per cent on the appraised value shall
be assessed.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before the court upon a certificate of division
in opinion between the judges of the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Massachusetts.
It is an action for money had and received, brought by the
plaintiffs, who are merchants, resident and doing business at
Halifax, Nova Scotia, to recover of the defendant, the collector
of customs for the port of Boston, money alleged to have been
illegally exacted on payment of duties on fifty bags of cutch,
shipped by the plaintiffs at Halifax, consigned to Messrs. Clark,
Jones, and Co., of Boston.
The invoice was dated at Halifax, November 10, 1853, and the
cutch was entered at the custom-house, Boston, on the 16th of
the same month, at the invoice value.
The value of the catch, as appraised by the United States
appraisers, exceeded by ten per centum the invoice value; and
the plaintiff appealed, and a reappraisement was had by two
merchant's appraisers, and their appraisement also exceeded by
ten per centum the invoice value ; whereupon the defendant
assessed a duty of ten per centum ad valorem on the appraised
value, and also an additional duty or penalty of twenty per
centum on the same value, under the 8th section of the tariff act
of July 30, 1846.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

525

Stairs et al. v. Peaslee.

It was proved that the cutch was the product of the East Indies
only, and that Calcutta was the great market of the country of
production. And it appeared on the trial that this fact was
known to the appraisers when the appraisement was made. It
was also proved that London and Liverpool were the principal
markets of Great Britain, exclusive of India, for said article;
and, so far as appeared at the trial, this cargo was the only one
known to have been sold in, or exported from, Halifax.
It was also proved that the appraisers appraised the cutch at
its market value in London and Liverpool, and not at Halifax
or Calcutta, at the period of its exportation from the port of
Halifax to the United States.
The case coming on to be tried, it occurred as a question: 1. Whether the tariff act of March 3, 1851, repealed so much
of all former laws as provided that merchandise, when imported
from a country other than that of production or manufacture,
should be appraised at the market value of similar articles at the
principal markets of the country of production or manufacture,
at the period of the exportation to the United States.
On which question the opinions of the judges were opposed.
2. Whether in estimating the dutiable value of the cutch, the
appraisers should have taken the value at the market of Calcutta, or London and Liverpool, or Halifax, at the period of the
exportation from Halifax.
On which question the opinions of the judges were also opposed.
3. Whether if the appraisements were legally made, the
additional duty of twenty per centum, under the 8th section of
the tariff act of July 30, 1846, was rightfully exacted by the
defendant.
On which question the opinions of the judges were opposed.
Wherefore, upon the motion of the plaintiffs, the points were
certified to this court for final decision.
The first question certified by the circuit court depends
altogether upon the construction of the act of 1851, 9 Stats.
at Large, 629.
The language of this act of congress is general, and embraces
all importations of goods that are subject to an ad valorem duty;
and directs that their value shall be estimated and ascertained
by the wholesale price at the period of exportation to the
United States, in the principal markets of the country from
which they are imported. The time and the place to which the
appraisers are required to look, when making their appraisement,
are both distinctly specified in the law, - the time being the
period of exportation, and the place the country from which
they were imported into the United States. It makes no

SUPREME COURT.
Stairs et al. v. Peaslee.

reference to their value in the country of production, or the time
of purchase. And as there is no ambiguity in the language of
the act, and it embraces all goods subject to an ad valorem duty,
the court would hardly be justified in giving a construction to
it narrower than its words fairly import.
It is true, as urged by the counsel for the plaintiff, that in the
previous laws upon the same subject, the country of production
or manufacture was the place to which the appraisers were
referred in order to ascertain their value. And undoubtedly the
previous acts of congress, and the policy which they indicate,
are proper to be considered in interpreting the act of 1851, and
might influence its construction if its language was found to
be ambiguous. But that is not the case in the present instance.
The law taken by itself will admit of but one construction, and that is, the appraisement must be made, by the value of the
goods in the principal markets of the country from which they
are exported, at the time of such exportation to the United
States. And, so far as these provisions are inconsistent with
the provisions of previous laws, they show that congress had
changed its policy in this respect, and intended to repeal the
laws by which it had been established.
As regards the second point certified, the word country in the
revenue laws of the United States has always been construed to
embrace all the possessions of a foreign State however widely
separated, which are subject to the same supreme executive and
legislative control. The question was brought before the treasury
department in 1817 ; and, on the 29th of September in that year,
instructions were issued by the department, in a circular addressed to the different collectors, in which the construction
above stated is given to the word. The practice of the government has ever since conformed to this construction ; and it must
be presumed that congress, in its subsequent legislation on the
subject, used the word according to its known and established
interpretation.
Apart, however, from this consideration, we regard the construction of the treasury department as the true one. Congress
certainly could not have intended to refer to mere localities or
geographical divisions, without regard to the state or nation to
which they belonged. For, if the word country were used in
that sense, the law furnishes no certain and fixed limits to guide
the appraisers in determining what are its principal markets;
and it would often be difficult to decide whether the market
selected by appraisers, to regulate the value, was actually within
the limits of the country from which the exportation was made.
And, moreover, if the construction contended for by the plaintiff
could be maintained, it would soon be found that goods would

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

527

Stairs et al. v. Peaslee.

not generally be exported directly to the United States, from the
principal market where they were procured, but sent to some
other place where they were not in demand, to be shipped to
this country, and invoiced far below their real value. The case
before us shows what may be done to evade the payment of the
just amount of duty; and neither the words of any revenue
law, nor any policy of the government, would justify a construction alike injurious to the public and to the fair and honest
importer.
It follows, therefore, as the cutch in question was shipped and
invoiced from Halifax, that it was the duty of the appraisers to
estimate and appraise it according to its value in the principal
markets of the British dominions. What markets within these
dominions were the principal ones for an article of this description was a question of fact, not of law, and to be decided by
the appraisers, and not by the court. They, it appears, determined that London and Liverpool were the principal markets in
Great Britain for the goods in question, and appraised the cutch
according to its value in these markets. And as the appraisers
are by law the tribunal appointed to determine this question,
their decision is conclusive upon the importer as well as the
government.
The third point presents a question of more difficulty.
By the act of congress of 1842, (5 Stats. at Large, 563,) it was
provided that in cases where goods purchased were subject to an
ad valoremt duty, if the appraisement exceeded the value at which
they were invoiced by ten per cent, or more, then in addition to
the duty imposed by law on the same, there should be levied
and collected on the same goods, wares, and merchandise, fifty
per cent of the duty imposed on the same when fairly invoiced.
It would seem, however, that this provision was found by
experience to operate, in some instances, unjustly upon the
importer; and that it sometimes happened that, under favorable
opportunities of time or place, goods were purchased in a foreign
country for ten per cent less than their market value in the
principal markets of the country from which they were imported
into the United States. And if they were so invoiced, the
importer was liable for the above-mentioned penal duty, although
he was willing and offered to make the entry at their dutiable
value. The fact that the invoice value was ten per cent below
the standard of value fixed by law, subjected him to the penal
duty; and he had no means of escaping from it.
The 8th section of the tariff act of 1846 was obviously
intended to relieve the importer from this hardship. It provides
that the owner, consignee, or agents of imports which have been
actually purchased, may, on entry of the same, make such

528

SUPREME COURT.
Stairs et al. v. Peaslee.

addition in the entry, to the cost or value given in the invoice,
as, in his opinion, may raise the same to the true market value
of such imports in the principal markets of the country whence
the importation shall have been made, or in which the goods
imported shall have been originally manufactured or produced,
as the case may be; and to add thereto all the costs and charges
which, under existing laws, would form a part of the true value,
at the port where the same may be entered, upon which the
duties should be assessed. And the section further provides
that if the appraised value shall exceed by ten per cent, or
more, the value so declared on the entry, then, in addition to the
duties imposed by law, there should be levied a duty of twenty
per centum ad valorem on such appraised value, - with a proviso
that in no case should the duty be assessed upon an amount less
than the invoice value.
The difficulty has arisen upon the construction of this act.
It appears that the goods in question were entered at the value
stated in the invoice, without any addition by the importer.
That value, upon the appraisement, was found to be more than
ten per cent below their dutiable value. And it has been
argued, on behalf of the plaintiff, that the penal duty imposed
by this law is incurred in those cases only, in which the importer
makes an addition to the invoice value; and that this provision
does not embrace cases in which the goods are entered at the
invoice cost or value, although that value should be more than
ten per cent below the appraisement.
We think this construction cannot be maintained. It is the
duty of the importer to enter his goods at their dutiable value, ascertaining it according to the rules and regulations prescribed
by law. The entry required is not a mere list of the articles
imported. It must also state their value. And if he enters
them at the value stated in the invoice, it is a declaration on his
part that such and no more is the amount upon which the ad
valorem duty is to be paid. It is the value declared on the entry,
as much so as if he had availed himself of the privilege conferred by this act of congress, and entered them at a higher
value. He is, consequently, subject to the penal duty, if the
value declared in the invoice is ten per cent below the appraisement. And this construction is strengthened by the proviso in
the same section, which directs that in no case should the duty
be assessed upon a less amount than the invoice value. This
provision, it would seem, was introduced upon the principle.that
the party having admitted the value in the invoice which he
produces, (and which he is bound to produce when he makes
the entry,) shall not be permitted to deny the truth of the
declaration he thus makes, and enter them at a lower value.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

529

Stairs et al. v. Peaslee.

Indeed, the plain object and policy of the law would be
defeated by the construction contended for. It was evidently
the purpose of this section of the act of 1846 to relieve the
importer from the hardship to which he was exposed by the act
of 1842, where the undervaluation in the invoice arose from
error, or from ignorance of the mode of valuation prescribed by
the revenue laws of the United States. For, while it gives him
the privilege of relieving himself from the penal duty, by entering them-at their true dutiable valuation, it would, according to
the construction claimed by the plaintiff, hold out to him, at the
same time, the strongest temptation not to avail himself of it,as a much higher penal duty would be exacted, when he added
to the Value in the invoice, if he still fell ten per cent below the
appraisement, than if he had stood upon the invoice itself. For,
in the former case, he would be subject to a penal duty of
twenty per cent on the dutiable value of the goods, and, in the
latter, would be liable to only fifty per cent on the amount of
duty which he would be required to pay. It would be difficult
to assign a reason for such a distinction; and we think none
such is made by the law, and that the importer is liable to the
penal duty of twenty per cent wherever the goods are undervalued in the entry ; and it matters not whether this undervaluation is found in an entry made according to the value in
the invoice, or in an entry at a higher valuation by the importer.
The treasury department in carrying into execution the act of
1846, has given to it the same construction that the court now
place upon it; and the penal duty of twenty per cent has been
constantly exacted for an undervaluation in cases where the
entry was according to the value stated in the invoice, as well
as in cases where an addition had been made by the importer.
In the case of Bartlett v. Kane, (reported in 16 How. 263,)
the entry was at the invoice price, and as that was found by the
appraisers to be ten per cent below its dutiable value, the penal
duty was exacted by the government officers. A portion of the
goods were warehoused, and afterwards entered for exportation.
And the owner demanded a return of the twenty per cent as a
portion of the duty he had paid, and which he was entitled to
have refunded upon the exportation of the goods. The demand
being refused, the suit above mentioned was brought against the.
collector to recover it. But this court held that this penal duty
was legally levied by the collector, and legally retained, and the
plaintiff failed to recover.
It will be observed that the right of the collector to demand
and retain this penal duty for an undervaluation in the invoice,
was directly in question in that suit; and if the act of 1846
does not embrace cases of that description, the plaintiff was
VOL. XVIi.

45

530

SUPREME COURT.
Hudgins et al. v. Kemp, Assignee,

&c.

undoubtedly entitled to recover. But the point now made was
not suggested in the argument, nor noticed in the opinion of
the court, nor was any distinction in this respect taken between
an undervaluation, in an entry at the invoice value, and an
undervaluation where the importer added to the value.
We do not refer to this case as a judicial decision of the
question before us; because, although it was in the case, the
attention of the court was not called to it. But it certainly may
fairly be inferred from it that in 1853, when this case was
decided, no doubt had been suggested as to the construction of
the act of 1846, and that the mercantile community, and the
members of the bar to whom their interests were confided, concurred with the secretary in his construction of the law. And
after that construction had been thus sanctioned, impliedly, in
a judicial proceeding in this court, and acted on for so many
years by all the parties interested, the court think it ought to be
regarded as settled, and that what has been done under it ought
not to be disturbed, even if this construction was far more
doubtful than it is. We shall therefore certify to the circuit
court: -

1. That the tariff act of March 3, 1851, repealed so much of
the former laws as provided that merchandise, when imported
from a country other than that of production or manufacture,
should be appraised at the market value of similar articles at
the principal markets of the country of production or manufacture at the period of the exportation to the United States.
2. That in estimating the value of the cutch, it was' the duty
of the appraisers to determine what were the principal markets
of the country from which it was exported into the United
States, and their decision that London and Liverpool were the
principal markets for that article is conclusive.
3. The appraisement appearing to have been legally made,
the additional duty of twenty per cent, under the 8th section of
the tariff act of July 30, 1846, was rightfully exacted by the
defendant,
ROBERT HUDGINS ET AL., APPELLANTS, v. WYNDHAM KEMP,
ASSIGNEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF JoHN L. HUDGINS. ELLIoTT
W. HUDGINS ELT AL., APPELLANTS, v. WYNDHAM KEMP,
AssIGNEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF JOHN L. HUDGINS.
Whsre the record, certified by the clerk of the circuit court, states that an appeal from
a decree in chancery was taken in open court, no evidence dehors the record can
be received to impeach its verity, on a motion to dismiss the appeal for want of
jurisdiction upon the ground that the case has not been regularly brought op.
If the record is defective, the errors can be corrected in several modes.

