DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

517

Watson v. Tarpley.

not they violated the constitution of the United States." So
in the case before us, the clause in the constitution and the law
of congress should have been specified by the plaintiffs in error
in the state court, in order that this court might see what was
the right claimed by them, and whether it was denied to them
by the decision of the state court.
Upon these grounds we think this writ of error cannot be
maintained, and therefore dismiss it for want of jurisdiction.

MATTHEW WATSON, PLArN1TIFF IN ERROR, V. COLIN S.
TARPLEY.
The regularity and legality of the proceedings which take place as to protest and
notice upon a dishonored bill of exchange, is a question of law for the court to
decide, and not a question to be left to tie jury.
By the general rules of commercial law, the payee or indorsee of a bill, upon its
presentment and upon refusal by the drawee to accept, has the right to immediate
recourse against the drawer. He is not bound to wait to see whether or not the bill
will be paid at maturity.
A statute of a State, which forbids a suit from being brought in such a case until after
the maturity of the bill, can have no effect upon suits brought in the courts of the
United States. So also, if the statute seeks to make the right of recovery in a suit
brought in case of non-acceptance, dependent upon proof of subsequent presentment, protest, and notice for non-payment.
The decisions of this court upon these points, examined.

THIs case came up, by writ of error, from the circuit court of
the United States for the southern district of Mississippi.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Badg'er, for the plaintiff in error, nc
counsel appearing for the defendant.
I
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 29th April, 1850, the plaintiff in error, a citizen of
Tennessee, brought this action of assumpsit against the defend.
ant, a citizen of Mississippi, in the circuit court of the United
States for the southern district of Mississippi, upon a bill of
exchange, dated 4th April, 1850, drawn by the defendant upon
Messrs. McKee, Bulkely, and Co., of New Orleans, Louisiana, for
8 2,327.49, payable twelve months after date, in favor of James
Bankhead, and by him indorsed to the plaintiff, and declared in
two counts, - one on the non-acceptance and the other on the
non-payment of the said bill. Pr. Rec., p. 4. The defendant
pleaded " non assumpsit," and on this plea issue was joined,
(page ,ix,) and the action tried on the 11th of January, 1855,
VOL. XV,,i.

44

518

SUPREME COURT.
Watson v. Tarpley.

when a verdict was found for the defendant. On the trial, a
bill of exceptions was taken by the plaintiff in error, from which
it appears that the plaintiff read in evidence the bill of exchange,
and proved the presentment thereof to the drawers, at their
office in New Orleans, for acceptance on the 27th of April, 1850,
the due protest thereof for non-acceptance, and a notification of
its dishonor given the same day by letter addressed to the defendant at his residence in Mississippi. See Notarial Protest and
Depositions, 17- 22..
The plaintiff also proved the presentment of the said bill for
payment on the 7th April, 1851, the refusal of payment, the due
protest thereof, and notice to the defendant. See Notarial Protest and Depositions of H. B. Cenas, A. Commandeur, and
Charles F. Barry, 7-15.
The defendant then offered to read in evidence a certificate,
set out on the 23d page of the Record; and which being read,
after objection taken thereto by the plaintiff, the judge instructed
the jury. Record, 23.
"That the plaintiff was not entitled to recover on the count
in the declaration on the protest of the bill for non-acceptance,
unless due and regular notice Was proved of the protest of the
bill for non-payment, though the jury might be satisfied from the
proof, that the bill had been regularly protested for non-acceptance, and due notice thereof given to the defendant; tlat to
entitle the plaintiff to recover, notwithstanding the proof of
protest for non-acceptance and due notice thereof, the plaintiff
must prove protest for non-payment and due notice thereof, to
the defendant ; and that the jury were the judges of the testimony, and could give to the witnesses such credit as they
thought them entitled to, looking to all the circumstances of the

case."
The material questions involved in this case are comprised
within a comparatively narrow compass, and present themselves
prominently out upon the face of the record. On each of the
questions thus deemed material, we think that the circuit court
has erred.
Upon the relevancy or effect of the certificate of H. B. Cenas,
under date of the 7th of April, 1851, and which was under an
exception by the plaintiff permitted to be read in evidence with
the view of impairing the previous statement of this witness
as to the regularity of his proceedings upon the dishonor of
the bill, we do not think it necessary to express an opinion. Oar
views of the law of this case as applicable to the instruction
given by the circuit court, are in no degree affected by the character of the statements in that certificate.
We think that the instruction of the ,.utir was erroneous in

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

519

Watson v. Tarpley.

committing it to the jury to determine whether the proceedings
as to protest and notice upon the dishonor of the bill for nonpayment were regular and legal. This is a matter which must,
upon the facts given in evidence, be determined by the court as
a question of law, and which cannot be regularly submitted to
the jury. Such is the doctrine uniformly ruled by this court;
we mention the cases of the Bank of Columbia v. Lawrence,
1 Pet. 578; Dickins v. Beale, 10 lb. 572; Rliett v. Poe, 2 How.
457; Camden v. Doremus et al. 8 Ib.515; Harris v. Robinson,
4 Tb. 336; Lambert v. Ghiselin, 9 Ib.552. To the same point
might be cited the several English decisions referred to in the
case of Rhett v. Poe, already mentioned.
We also hold to be erroneous the instruction of the court
declaring that after presentment of the bill for acceptance, and
after regular protest and notice for non-acceptance, an action
could not be maintained by the payee or indorsee until after the
maturity of the bill, and then only upon proof of demand for
payment, and of a regular protest and notice founded upon the
refusal to pay.
It is a rule of commercial law, too familiarly known to require
the citation of authorities, or to admit of question, that the
payee or indorsee of a bill upon its presentment and upon
refusal by the drawee to accept, has the right to immediate
recourse against the drawer. Upon no principle of reason or
justice can he be required to await the maturity of the bill, by
the dishonor of which he has been assured that it will not be
paid, and with which the drawee has disclaimed all connection.
Justice to the drawer, with the view of enabling him to guard
himself from injury, imposes upon the holder the obligation of
protest and notice upon non-acceptance; but beyond this, he
sustains no connection with the drawee of the bill, and is under
no obligation afterwards to present the latter for payment; of
course, he cannot be rightfully held to protest and notice for
non-payment.
In the several compilations of the law of bills and notes by
Kyd, Bayley, Chitty, Byles, and Story, are collected the decisions
by which this doctrine has been settled.
It has been suggested that the instruction by the judge at
circuit, may have been founded upon a provision in a statute of
the State of Mississippi of 1836, contained in a collection of the
laws of that state by Howard and Hutchinson, pp. 375, 376,
ยง 18, by which, amongst other enactments, it is declared that 1 no
action or suit shall be sustained or commenced on any bill of
exchange, until after the maturity thereof" ; and this prohibition
or postponement of the right of action it is thought may have
been interpreted by the judge as requiring after presentment for

520

SUPREME COURT.
Watson v. Tarpley.

acceptance, and, after protest and notice upon non-acceptance, a
like presentment and demand for payment upon the maturity
of the bill; and upon refusal to pay, a like protest and notice in
order to authorize a recovery.
The answer to the above suggestion is this: that if such be a
just interpretation of the statute of Mississippi, that interpretation, and the consequences deducible therefrom, we must regard
as wholly inadmissible.
Whilst it will not be denied, that the laws of the several
States are of binding authority upon their domestic tribunals,
and upon persons and property within their appropriate jurisdiction, it is equally clear that those laws cannot affect, either
by enlargement or diminution, the jurisdiction of the courts of
the United States as vested and prescribed by the constitution
and laws of the United States, nor destroy or control the rights
of parties litigant to whom the right of resort to these courts
has been secured by the laws and constitution. This is a position
which has been frequently affirmed by this court, and would
seem to compel the general assent upon its simple enunciati6n.
In the case of Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, this court in giving
a construction to the 34th section of the judiciary act, which
declares "that the laws of the several States, except where the
constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United States shall
otherwise require or provide, shall be regarded as rules of
decision in trials at common law in the courts of the United
States, in cases where they apply," has said: "It never has been
supposed by us, that this section did apply, or was intended to
apply, to questions of a more general nature, not at all dependent upon local statutes or local usages of a fixed and permanent
operation; as, for example, to the construction of ordinary contracts or other written instruments, and especially to questions
of general commercial law, where the state tribunals are called
upon to perform the like functions as ourselves; that is, to
ascertain upon general reasoning and legal analogies, what is
the true exposition of the contract, or what is the just rule furnished by the principles of commercial law to govern the case."
Again, in the same case it is said by this court: "The law
respecting negotiable instruments may be truly declared, in the
language of Cicero, adopted by Lord Mansfield in Luke v. Lyde,
2 Burr, 883, 887, to be in a great measure not the law of a
single country only, but of the commercial world."
In the cases of Keary v. The Farmers and Merchants of
Memphis, 16 Pet. 89, and of Dromgoole v. The Farmer's Bank,
2 How. 241, it was ruled by this court, that the courts of the
United States themselves, can have no authority to adopt any
provisions of state laws which are repugnant to or incompatible

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

521

Stairs et al. v. Peaslee.

with the positive enactments of congress, upon the jurisdiction
or practice, or proceedings of such courts.
The general commercial law being circumscribed within no
local limits, nor committed for its administration to any peculiar
jurisdiction, and the constitution and laws of the United States
having conferred upon the citizens of the several States, and
upon aliens, the power or privilege of litigating and enforcing
their rights acquired under and defined by that general commercial law, before the judicial tribunals of the United States, it
must follow by regular consequence, that any state law or
regulation, the effect of which would be to impair the rights
thus secured, or to devest the federal courts of cognizance
thereof, in their fullest acceptation under the commercial law,
must be nugatory and unavailing. The statute of Mississippi,
so far as it may be understood to deny, or in any degree to
impair the right of a non-resident holder of a bill of exchange,
immediately after presentment to, and refusal to accept by the
drawee, and after protest and notice, to resort forthwith to the
courts of the United States by suit upon such bill, must be
regarded as wholly without authority and inoperative. The
same want of authority may be affirmed of a provision in the
statute which would seek to render the right of recovery by the
holder, after regular presentment and protest, and notice for nonacceptance, dependent upon proof of subsequent presentment,
protest, and notice for non-payment.
A requisition like this would be a violation of the general
commercial law, which a State would have no power to impose,
and which the courts of the United States would be bound to
disregard.
We think that the instruction given by the circuit court in this
case was erroneous; that its decision should be, as it is hereby
reversed; and the cause is remanded to the circuit court, to be
proceeded in upon a venire de novo, in conformity with the
principles above ruled.

WILLIAM

STAIRS AND ANOTHER,

PLAINTIFFS, V. CHARLES

H.

PEASLEE.
The tariff act of March 3, 1851, (9 Stats. at Large, 629,) repealed so much of the former
laws as provided that merchandise, when imported from a country other than that
of production or manufacture, should be appraised at the market value of similar
articles at the principal markets of the country of production or manufacture, at the
period of the exportation to the United States.
44 *

