DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

173

Cooper v. Roberts.

JAMES M. COOPER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

v.

ENOCH C. ROBERTS.

It has always been a cherished policy with the government of the United States to
appropriate the section numbered sixteen in every township of land for the use of
schools.
Reservations were made in the sale of other lands which contained salt springs or lead
mines, but not in the appropriation of section sixteen for schools.
When the State of Michigan was admitted into the Union, it was upon the condition
that every section numbered sixteen in every township of the public lands, and
where such section has been7 sold or otherwise disposed of, other lands equivalent
thereto, and as contiguous as may be, shall be granted to the State for the use of
schools.
When the lands are surveyed and marked out, the title of the State attaches to No. 16,
and if there be no legal impediment, becomes a legal title.
The act of March 1, 1847, (9 Stats. at Large, 146,) providing for the sale of mineral
lands, does not include section sixteen, which remains subject to the compact with
Michigan.
Under the operation of that act, and also the act of September, 1850, (9 Stats.
Large, 472,) a lease made in 1945, by the secretary of war, of some mineral land
(including section sixteen,) did not confer a right upon the mining company, w o
were the assignees of the lease, to enter their lands and obtain a patent for section
sixteen.
It was not necessary for the State of Michigan to obtain the consent of congress before
making a sale of the section.
Whether or not the officers of the State of Michigan pursued the laws of the State in
effecting the sale, is a question which the occupant of the land cannot miss in this
suit.

Tnis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
4
court of the United States for the district of Michigan.
2&
It is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Hr. Buel and Mr. Vinton; for the plaintiff in
error, and Mifr. Truman Smith, for the defendant.

Such of the points only as were included within the decisio
rd
of the court will be noticed.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error first considered the
tions which arose relative to the act of 28d June, 1836, granting
school lands to Michigan.
1. Is it simply a law in the ordinary meaning of the term,
and, as such, repealable at the will of the law-making power, or
does it belong to that class of laws which are legislative compacts ?
The counsel contended that it was a compact. 5 Stats. at
Large, 59, 60.
2. If it be of the latter class, when did it take effect as a compact, and become obligatory on the parties to it?
It became obligatory o 25th July, 1836, that being the day
on which the legislature of Michigan passed the act of acceptance. Revised Code of Michigan for 1846, 748; 2 Wheat. 196;
4 Harrington, 479; 9 Wheat. 469.

174

SUPREME COURT.
Cooper v. Roberts.

3. Does either possess the power to annul or change any of
the essential terms of it, without the assent of the other ?
Whether the grant of section 16 operated as a present grant,
or was only a promise that it should be granted in futuro, makes
no difference in the obligation of the United States.
4. Viewed as a compact, what are the rules and principles
that govern it? And what are the obligations which the article
respecting section 16 imposes on the United States ?
The rules and principles which govdrn it are those which
regulate contracts generally. 1 Pet. Cond. R. 453 ; 1 Tenn. 319;
9 Ohio, 572.
That the government cannot resume its grant, and that a
grant is a contract executed, see New Orleans v. De Armas,
9 Pet. 236. There the court say: "It is a principle applicable
to every grant, that it cannot affect pre-existing titles." In Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43, (same case, 2 Pet. Cond. R. 321,)
held, that where the legislature had the authority to make a
grant of lands, such grant, when made, vests an indefeasible and
irrevocable title. And in Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, Chief
Justice Marshall said: "A grant in its own nature amounts to an
extinguishment of the right of the grantor, and implies a contract
not to reassert that right ; a party, therefore, is always estopped
by his own grant." Pollard's Lessee v. Hogan, 3 How. 212.
L Whether a contract be executed or executory, it is equally
binding on the parties to it. Fletcher v. Peck, 2 Pet. Cond.

3:
321.
5. What is the aeaning and effect of that clause in the article
which provides, that where section sixteen has been sold or otherwise disposed of, other lands equivalent thereto and as contiguous as may be, shall be granted to the State?
This was to provide for prior and not subsequent sales. Assuming that the act of 1836 was only a promise, and that the
act of March 1, 1847, embraced section sixteen, still, Michigan
has the better right to it. But that act did not dispose of the
mineral lands without reference to the school reservation.
1. Instead of the mineral lands being reserved by the act in
pursuance to an established policy, it was a primary object of
that act to put an end to the policy that had theretofore prevailed of reserving mineral lands from sale, and to dispose of
them by sale as soon as practicable, and for the best price that
could be obtained.
2. By the true interpretation of the second section of the act,
section sixteen in every township of the district is expressly reserved from sale; and also such reservations as the President
shall deem necessary for public uses, whether the same are mineral lands or not.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

175

Cooper v. Roberts.

8. As the interpretation of the court conflicts with prior and
existing legislative grants and obligations, those grants and
obligations are entitled to the benefit of every legal presumption
and inference in their favor; and such effect ought not to be
given to the law, unless the intent to produce this conflict be
expressed in manifest and undoubted language.
4. If the act had, in general terms, directed the sale of all the
lands in the d strict, but was silent as to the lands previously
dedicated and granted to schools, it would not haye the effect to
divert them from this special use.
Ar. Smith, for the defendants in error, contended: 1. That the article in the act of 1886 was conceived in words
of the future tense; and that the plaintiff below could not make
13 ibid.
Pet. 516;
out a title without a patent. 14
274. 15 How. 438; 1 0p.
Att. Geil. 273; 12 How. 76;
But if we assume that the first article of this compact operated
to vest in the State of Michigan the fee, or a good and perfect
title to these lands, then the next question is, whether that title
has, through Williams, been transferred to the plaintiff? To
answer which we must, as already mentioned, turn our attention both to the laws of the United States and of the State of
Michigan.
Michigan had no power to sell this -section without the assent
of congress. The income of each section is to be applied to the
support of schools ini the township where it is situated and the
State has no power, without the consent of congress, to sell it
for the purpose of creating a general fund. 14 How. 274.
This is shown by the numerous acts of congress granting permission to sell. 4 Stats. at Large, 237, 298; 5 ibid. 600; 10
ibid. 6.
The United States, in granting these lands, are the founders
of a charity; 9 Cranch. 2Q2; and their assent is necessary for a
sale. 4 Wheat. 518.
But, assuming that the State of Michigan has the entire control of the lands, and can sell them without consulting either the
United States or the inhabitants of the townships where situated; then the question arises, whether these lands were sold
in conformity with the laws of the State?
The argument upon this point is omitted.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff sued in ejectment to recover a portion of section
No. 16, in township No. 50 north, of range 89 west, lying within
the mineral district south of Lake Superior, in Michigan.
His case affirms that this section had been appropriated by the

176

SUPREME COURT.
Cooper v. Roberts.

United States to the State of Michigan for the use of schools, in
their compact, by which that State became a member of the
Union; that the governor of Michigan issued, in November,
1851, to Alfred Williams, a patent, evincing a sale of that section under the laws of Michigan, in February, 1851; that he has
a conveyance from the patentee, and that the defendant is a
tenant in possession, withholding the locus in quo from him.
The defendant, to support his issue, relies upon a license given
in 1844, by the mineral agent of the United States for that district, empowering the donee to examine and dig for lead, and
other ores, for the term of one year, and within that term to
mark out and define a.specific tract of land, not to exceed three
miles square, for mining purposes; and, if he should fulfil this
and other conditions, he was to become entitled to a lease for
three years, with a privilege of one or two renewals, under, restrictions. The secretary of war, in September, 1845, executed
a lease for a tract three miles square, which the donee of the
license had selected, and which included the locus in quo, and
stipulated to renew it, if congress shall not have passed a law
"directing the sale, or other disposition, of these lands," and if
the lessee shall have complied with all the conditions of the
present lease, and tendered a bond for the fulfilment of the conditions of the new lease, as described in the act. This lease
came to the Minnesota Mining Company by assignment, and
that company in 1847, and from thence till 1851, held possession
of the land described in the declaration, erected valuable improvements, and made successful explorations for copper upon
it. In November, 1850, the company applied to the proper officers of the land-office to enter the land comprised in the lease,
and from thence, till the date of their patent in 1852, the right
of the company to secure the locus in quo by entry was in dispute in the land-office of the United States. In September, 1851,
the secretary of the interior determined adversely to the claim
of the company, and in favor of the claim of Michigan; and in
1852, upon proofs that the company had complied with the lease,
while he reaffirmed his conclusions in favor of Michigan, allowed
the entry of the company, but with a reservation of the rights of
Michigan. The section No. 16, aforesaid, was surveyed in the
summer of 1847, and the portion in controversy, iii the report of
the geological survey of the district, was returned to the landoffice as containing mines of copper. There was no application
to the department of public lands to renew the lease held by the
company, for the reason (it is said) that the system of letting
mineral lands of this kind had been abandoned, upon the doubts
expressed by the attorney-general, in 1846, of the legality of such
leases. Upon the trial of the cause in the circuit court, the

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

177

Cooper v. Roberts.

plaintiff moved the court for instructions to the jury, that, upon
the facts, he was entitled to a verdict, and that the defendant's
patent was invalid. The court refused the prayer, and told the
jury, "that by the act of congress of 1st March, 1847, all the
mining lands within the district, reported, were taken out of the
operation of the general law for the disposal of the public lands,
in pursuance of an established policy to reserve from the ordinary
mode of disposing of public lands those that contained valuable
salt springs, lead mines, &c., that they might be leased or disposed of to purchasers having full knowledge of their value, by
reason of the salt springs or mineral ores they contained, at their
full value, for the public benefit. That, by the above act, all the
mineral lands reported by.the geologist within the district, in
pursuance of this settled policy of the government, were appropriated and disposed of without reference to the school reservation, the appropriation of the land being made before the .surveys
were executed, and before the locality of section 16 could be
known. And as it appears from the report of the geologist that
the land in controversy contains valuable minerals, and was
within the boundaries of the lease under which the Minnesota
Company claim, and that they had made large expenditures
thereon for mining, were entitled to the right of purchase, as
provided in the third section of the above law ; and having paid
for the same, it was a disposition of the land which congress had
a right to make, and was an exercise of power within the grant.
That the setting apart of another section adjacent will satisfy the
grant to the State."
Our first inquiry will be into the nature of the right of the
State. of Michigan to section No. 16 in the townships of that
State, and the effect of the discovery of minerals in such a section upon that right. The practice of setting apart section No.
16 of every township of public lands, for the maintenance of
public schools, is traceable to the ordinance of 1785, being the
first enactment for the disposal by sale of the public lands in the
western territory. The appropriation of public lands for that
object became a fundamental principle, by the ordinance of
1787, which settled terms of compact between the people and
States of the northwestern territory, and the original States,
unalterable except by consent. One of the articles affirmed that
"religion, morality, and knowledge, being necessary for good
government and the happiness of mankind" ; and ordained that
"schools, and the means of education, should be forever encouraged." This principlb was extended, first, by congressional
enactment, (1 Stats. at Large, 550, ยง 6,) and afterwards, in
1802, by compact between the United States and Georgia to
the southwestern territory. The earliest development of this

178

SUPREME COURT.
Cooper v. Roberts.

article, in practical legislation, is to be found in the organization
of the State of Ohio, and the adjustment of its civil polity,
according to the ordinance, preparatory to its admission to the
Union. Proposals were made to the inhabitants of the incipient
State to become a sovereign community, and to accept certain
articles as the conditions of union, which, being accepted, were
to become obligatory upon the United States. The first of
these articles is, "that the section No. 16 in every township,
and where such section has been sold, granted, or disposed of,
other lands equivalent thereto and most contiguous to the same,
shall be granted to the inhabitants of such township, for the use
of schools."
A portion of this territory had been encumbered in the articles of cession by the States, and another portion by congress
for the fulfilment of public obligations, prior to the ordinance
of 1785, and without reference to the school reservations ; therefore, uniformity in the appropriation of the section No. 16 was
partially defeated. The southwestern territory was similarly
burdened in the compact of cession by Georgia, with the fulfilment of antecedent obligations, and similar paramount obligations have arisen intreaties with the Indian tribes who inhabited
it. The rights of private property vested in the inhabitants,
ceded with Louisiana and Florida, and guaranteed to them in
the treaties of cession, created an obstruction to the same policy
within them. But the constancy with which the United States
have adhered to the policy in the'various compacts with the
people of the newly-formed States, and the care which congress
has manifested to prevent the accumulation of prior obligations
which might interrupt it, fully display their estimate of its value
There is, obviously, a definite purpose deand importance.
clared to consecrate the same central section of every township of every State which might be added to the federal system,
to the promotion "of good government and the happiness of
mankind," by the spread of" religion, morality, and knowlcdge,"
and thus, by a uniformity of local association, to plant in the
heart of every community the same sentiments of grateful reverence for the wisdom, forecast, and magnanimous statesmanship of those who framed the institutions for these new States,
before the constitution for the old had yet been modelled. Has
the discovery of minerals of value upon this section been deemed
a sufficient cause for its withdrawal from the operation of this
policy, and the compacts which develop it?
The ordinance of 1785 dedicated the section No. 16 for the
maintenance of public schools, and in each sale of the public
lands there was 1,%th, -ame ordi.,ance a reservation of ,me third
iead, and ,opi mines within tihe townl.mide,
part of dl gold,

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

179

Cooper v. Roberts.

ship or lot sold. No reservations were afterwards made of gold,
silver, or copper mines until the acts of March, 1847. By the
act of March 26, 1804, and the act of March, 1807, every "grant
of a salt-spring or a lead-mine thereafter to be made, which had
been discovered previously to the purchase from the United
States, was to be considered as null and void." (2 Stats. at
Large, 279, ยง 6; 449, ยง 6.) These statutes indicate a policy to
withdraw from sale lands containing these minerals. But the
compacts have been made without such a reservation, nor has
the usage of the land-office interpolated such an exception to
the general grant of the section No. 16 for the use of schools.
The grant of the section No. 16 for the use of schools can
be executed without violating the spirit of the legislation upon
salt-springs or lead-mines, and, as we have seen, no statute
prior to the admission of Michigan to the Union contains an
appropriation or reservation of other mineral lands. The State
of Michigan was admitted .to the Union, with the unalterable
condition "that every section -No. 16,, in every township of the
public lands, and where such section has been sold or otherwise
disposed of, other lands equivalent thereto, and as contiguous
as may be, shall be granted to the State for the use of schools."
We agree, that until the survey of the township and the designation of the specific section, the right of the State rests in compact- binding, it is true, the public faith, and dependent for
execution upon the political authorities. Courts of justice have
no authority to mark out and define the land which shall be subject to the grant. But when the political authorities have performed, this duty, the compact has an object, upon which it can
attach, and if there is no legal impediment the title of the State
becomes a legal title. The jus ad rem by the performance of
that executive act becomes a jus in re, judicial in its nature, and
under the cognizaiice and protection of the judicial authorities,
as well as the others. Gaines v. Nicholson, 9 How. 856.
The question now arises whether the act of March 1, 1847,
created a legal impediment to the operation of this principle,
either by the reservation of the land for public uses, or by its
In March, 1847, congress
appropriation to superior claims.
established a land district in this region for the disposal of the
public lands. It directed a geological survey for the ascertainment of those containing valuable ores, whether of lead or copIt provided for the
per, and a report to the land-office.
advertisement and sale of such lands, departing in a measure
from that usual mode, as to the length of the notice and the
amount of price; and in reference to the remainder of the lands,
it applied the usual regulations. To the section containing
these directions, (9 Stats. at Large, 146, ยง 2,) there is added an

180

SUPREME COURT.
Cooper v

Roberts.

exception from such sales, section No. 16, "for the use of schools,
and such reservations as the President shall deem necessary for
public uses." It has been argued, that this exception is only
applicable to the lands not contained in the geological report,
and that the mineral lands "were appropriated and disposed of
without reference to the school reservation of this section of the
act."
But it does no violence to the language to embrace
within the exception all the sales, for which the section provides, and we cannot suppose that congress could be tempted,
with the hope of a small additional price, which is imposed upon
the purchasers of the mineral lands, to raise a question upon its
compact with Michigan, or to disturb its' apcient and honored
policy. We think the interpretation which claims this as an
exception in favor of Michigan, is to be preferred to that which
excludes her from the mineral lands under this compact. And
this conclusion is strengthened by the fact that the power of the
President to make useful public reservations is connected in the
exception with the school reservations. There could be no
reason for limiting the power of the President to a single class
of the public lands, and to exclude him from another in the
same district. We conclude that this act does not withdraw
the mineral lands from the compact with Michigan.
Did the execution of tie lease by the secretary of war, in
1845, before the survey of the lands, dispose of these lands so
as to defeat the claim of the State ? The Minnesota Mining
Company, at the date of the act of March 1, 1847, held the
unexpired lease by assignment, and continued to perform its
conditions until their patent was issued. The 3d section of
that act authorized tie persons in possession under such a lease,
who had fulfilled its conditions, to enter in one tract all the lands
included in it, at a diminished price, " during the continuance
of the lease." The 4th section directed the sale of the niieral
lands contained in the report, but with a proviso that mne .
the lands contained in any outstanding lease, whose c,,nditions
had been fulfilled, should be sold till the expiration of the lease,
either "by efflux of time, voluntary surrender, or other legal extinguishment."
The act of congress of September, 1850, (9
Stats. at Large, 472), abrogated such of the clauses of the act
of 1847, which distinguished the mineral from other public lands,
and placed them alike, under the ordinary system for the disposal of the public domain, but reserved to lessees and occupants
the privileges conferred by the act of 1847. From that time,
therefore, the argument " that the mining lands within the di.triet were taken out. of the general law for the disposal or the
pubhe lands. 1-vthe avt of laruh, 1847,'" lost all its .og,ic.
and the right." .f til- Minnesota Coinpani depwind1d ntir', Ik

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

181

Cooper v. Roberts.

upon the validity of the lease and the protection accorded to the
lessee. The lease expired by "effiux of time," in September,
1848. There was no renewal of the lease, for the double reason,
that its original validity was doubted by the highest executive
authority, and those doubts were submitted to by the lessee, and
because congress had passed the law for the disposal of the mineral lands, which determined the covenant for renewal, by the
terms of the lease itself.
Hence, had there been a legal impediment to the execution
of the compact with Michigan, erected either by the -second section of the act of 1847, which separated for some purposes the
mineral from other public lands, or by the privileges granted to
lessees or their assigns, in the 3d section of that act, it was removed by the repealing clause of the act of 1850, and the noncompliance with the conditions on which the privileges depended.
The section No. 16 was, at that date, disencumbered, and subject to the operation of the compact, whatever might have been
its pre-existing state.
That compact had not been fulfilled by an assignment to the
State "of equivalent lands, contiguous as may be," under the
act of May 20, 1826. (4 Stats. at Large, 179.) Shortly after
the passage of the act of 1850, we find Michigan asserting her
claim to this section, advertising it for sale, and selling it to the
vendor of the plaintiff. We also find the officers of the landoffice of the United States denying the right of the Minnesota
Mining Company to enter the land, and admitting the superior
title of the State of Michigan, and finaly reserving those rights
in the patent issued to the company. We entirely concur
with these officers in their decision on the subject of contest, for
the reasons we have given. We think that the jury should have
been instructed, that the section No. 16 was vested in the State
of Michigan at the date of the entry by the Minnesota Mining
Company, and that the company did not acquire title by its
patent.
The defendant insists that the title of the plaintiff is invalid,
for the reason that the State of Michigan was not empowered
by congress to sell the school reservations. Where such grants
have been made to the State, or to the inhabitants of the township for the use of schools, it has been usual for congress to
authorize the sale of tie lands, if the State should desire it.
(4 Stats. at Large, 138, 237, 298; 5 Ib. 600.) But this consent
was not, perhaps, necessary, and the application for it is but
evidence of the strong desire of the state authorities to act in
good faith, and to keep within the pale of the law 4 Ala. R.
622.
The trusts created by these compacts relate to a subIjut er
VOL. XVIII.

16

SUPREME

182

COURT.

Schooner Freeman, &c. v. Buckingham et al.

tainly of universal interest, but of municipal concern, over which
the power of the State is plenary and exclusive. In the present
instance, the grant is to the State directly, without limitation of
its power, though there is a sacred obligation imposed on its
public faith. We think it was competent to Michigan to sell
the school reservations without the consent of congress.
The defendant further objects, that the officers of the State
violated the statutes of Michigan in selling these lands, after
they were known, or might have been known, to contain minerals. Without a nice inquiry into these statutes, to ascertain
whether they reserve such lands from sale, or into the disputed
fact whether they were known, or might have been known, to
contain minerals, we are of the opinion that the defendant is
not in a condition to raise the question on this issue. The
officers of the State of Michigan, embracing the chief magistrate
of the State, and who have the. charge and superintendence of
this property, certify this sale to have been made pursuant to
law, and have clothed the purchaser with the most solemn evidence of title. The defendant does not claim in privity with
Michigan, but holds an adverse right, and is a trespasser upon
the land, to which her title is attached.
Michigan has not complained of the sale, and retains, so far
as the case shows, the price paid for it. Under these circumstances, we must regard the patent as conclusive of the fact of
a valid and regular sale on this issue.
Upon the whole record, we think the jury should have been instructed, that if they found the facts thus given in evidence to be
true, the plaintiff was entitled to recover the premises in question.
Judgment reversed; cause remanded - a venire to issue.

THE SCHOONER FREEMAN, HER TACKLE, &C., CHARLES HICKOX,
CLAIMANT AND APPELLANT, V. ALVAH BUCKINGHAM, PHILO
BUCKINGHAM, BENJAMIN H. BUCKINGHAM, AND JAMES W.
MCOULLOK, LIBELLANTS.
Under the admiralty law of the United States, contracts of affreightment, entered into
with the master in good faith, and within the scope of his apparent authority as
master, bind the vessel to the merchandise for the performance of such contractS,
wholly irrespective of the ownership of the vessel, and whether the master be the
agent of the general or the special owner.
If the general owner has allowed a third person to have the entire control, management. and employmcnt of the vessel, and thus become owner pro hac vice. the general owmner miust be deemed to consent that the ,peeial .,ner or his master may
create liens hinding on the interest of the general owner in the vessel, at sectu'ity
for the performance of such contracts of affreightment.
.

L

i

*, aI

.0

.-. ,

tr

