384

SUPREME COURT.
Mechanics' and Traders' Bank v. Thomas.

THE MECHANICS' AND TRADERS' BANK, BRANCH OF THE STATE
BANK OF OHIO, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. CHARLES THOMAS,
TREASURER OF HAMILTON COUNTY.
The decision in the preceding case of Woolsey v. Dodge, again affirmed.

THIs case, like the preceding, was brought up from the supreme court of the State of Ohio, by a writ of error, issued under
the 25th section of the judiciary act.
It originated in the court of common pleas for Hamilton
County, and contained an agreed statement of facts similar to
that in the preceding case, with the following exceptions, after
stating the profits of the bank as follows, namely:Tax under ยง 60.

Profits.

From May, 1852, to Nov., 1852,
4 Nov., 1852, to May, 1853,
c May, 1853, to Nov., 1853,

.
.

$ 4,476.08 . 8 268.46
5,361.52 . . 321.69
4,860.19 . . 291.61

The auditor of Hamilton County listed the bank for taxation as
follows: Tax.

Assessment.

September 1, 1852,
September 1, 1853,

.
.

.

414,088
712,315

.
.

$ 6,832.45V.
13,177.32-;.

The agreed statement of facts contained also the following : If the court shall determine this question in the affirmative,
then judgment is to be entered in favor of the plaintiff against
the said defendant, for the sum of twenty thousand one hundred
and twenty-eight dollars and thirty cents, ( 2 0,1 2 8 -3%.dols.,)
with interest from the twenty-second day of March, in the year
eighteen hundred and fifty-four.
If the court shall decide the said question in the negative, then
judgment is to be entered against the plaintiff for costs.
It is agreed that all other questions are waived, and that the
judgment to be entered herein, in the court of common pleas,
shall be subject to review and reversal as in other cases.
MECHANICS' AND TRADERS' BANK,

By C. E. NouRSE, Cashier.
CHAnES THOMAS, Treas. Hamilton Co.
The court of common pleas gave judgment for the defendant,
which was affirmed by the supreme court of Ohio.
This case involved a question which did not exist in the preceding one; namely, whether the constitution adopted by Ohio

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.
Allen's Executors v. Allen et al.

in September, 1851, had any legal effect upon the contract between the State and the bank contained in the sixtieth section of
the Bank Law of February, 1845.
MAfr.
Stavberry, for the plaintiff in error, and H7fr. Pugh, for the
defendant in error, considered that all the questions which arose
in this case were fully argued in the case of Woolsey v. Dodge.
Mr. Perry filed a brief for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
We find upon the agreed statement of facts in this case, that
it is ruled by the decision of the court in the cases of the Piqua
Branch of the State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop, 16 Howard, 369,
and that of Dodge v. Woolsey, decided at this term. We therefore reverse the decision of the supreme court of Ohio, and
'direct a mandate to be issued accordingly.
Mr. Justice CATRON, Mr. Justice DANIEL, and Mr. Justice
CAMPBELL dissented.

JOSEPH WILKINS, TENANT,

AND FRANCIS

G.

BAILEY, JOSEPH PEA-

COCK, AND SAMUEL BAILEY, EXECUTORS OF MICHAEL ALLEN,
DECEASED, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. DAzvD ALLEN, MARTHA
ALLEN, CATHERINE ALLEN, AND ISABELLA ALLEN.

Where a testator, in Pennsylvania, gave to his wife a life estate in the homestead and
two lots, and charged upon his goods and lands an annuity to her, but did not
mention his lands in any other part of the will, and then, after sundry legacies
bequeathed the surplus to be applied to the purposes of the Presbyterian church,

this surplus does not relate to his lands, which his heirs will take.
By the law of Pennsylvania, heirs must take, unless they are disinherited by express
words or necessary implication.
Evidence of extrinsic circumstances, such as the amount and condition of the estate,
&c., cannot be received to control the interpretation of the will. It is only admissible to explain ambiguities arising out of extrinsic circumstances.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the western district of Pennsylvania.
It was an ejectment brought by the Allens, who were aliens
and subjects of the Queen of Great Britain and Ireland, to recover four undivided fifth parts of one undivided half of a lot in
Pittsburg. They were heirs of Michael Allen, and the question
was, whether Allen, the testator, had devised the property in
question by his will.
VOL. XVIII.

33

