DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

63

Carrington v. Pratt.

whatever as to this material fact. Where there is a case stated,
or special verdict, the court of error must not only reverse the
judgment below, if found erroneous, but enter a correct and
final judgment.
If a special verdict be ambiguous, or imperfect,-if it find but
the evidence of facts, and not the facts themselves, or finds but
part of the facts in issue, and is silent as to others, - it is a mistrial, and the court of error must order a venire de novo. They
can render no judgment on an imperfect verdict, or case stated.
See Prentice v. Zane, 8 How. 484.
No mere agreement of counsel can substitute evidence of
facts in place of facts, or require the opinion of this court on an
imperfect statement of them. A writ of error cannot by these
methods be converted into a chancery appeal,, nor a court of
error into appellate arbitrators.
The judgment of the circuit court is therefore reversed, and a
venire de nov awarded.

NEHEMIAH

LIBELLANT AND APELLANT, v. T lE
C. PRATT, LEONARD B. PRATT, CLAIMANT.

CARRINGTON,

BRIG ANN

Where a bottomry bond was taken for a larger amount than was actually advanced,
with a fraudulent purpose to enable the owner of the vessel to recover the amount
of the bond from the underwriters, the bond was void.
Not only so, but the lender of the money loses his maritime lien upon the vessel for
the sum actually advanced.

T~is was an appeal in admiralty from the circuit court of the
United States for the district of Maine.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mllr. Bowe, for the appellant, and Mr. Fessenden, for the appellee.
Mr. Rowe made the following points, namely:1. Airey was rightfully in possession and command of the
brig at St. Thomas, and had power to hypothecate her.
2. Airey's conduct, if wrong in this respect, cannot affect the
libellant's claim. 3 Sumn. 228.
3. The attempt at deception was not for the purpose of
wronging or injuring any party.

4. It does not appear that Carrington was particeps criminis.
5. The bond is not void in toto, but valid to the extent of the
actual advances and interest. 1 Dodson, 389; 8 Pet. 228;
1 Wheat. 107.

64

SUPREME COURT.
Carrington v. Pratt.

6. The fraud, even if Carrington be parliceps crinzinis, was
not such as to render the bond void in toto. 3 0. Robinson,
240, 276.
7. If the bond is invalid in toto now, it was void ab initio, not
voidable merely; and the rights of the parties are the same as
if the instrument had not been drafted. 3 Camp. 119; Abbott
on Shipping, Pt. II. 142, 151; 11 Mass. 359; 1 Pick. 415.
8. The libellant had a lien upon the brig for his advances, at
the date of the bond. 8 Pet. 538, 550; The Hunter, Ware's
Rep. 249.
9. The lien has never been extinguished or waived. 7 Pet.
324, 345; 4 Wheat. 255, 290, 291.
10. The lien was not lost by the subsequent fraud.
2.fr. Fessenden made the following points :1. This was peculiarly a contract of bottomry, having ll its
characteristics and incidents. Kent's Comm. (7th ed.) 3, 429,
430; 3 Sumn. 228; 4 Law & Eq. Rep. 589.
The draft and agreement do not affect its character. Kent,
3, 423, 424; The Hunter, Ware's R. 249; The Nelson, 1 Hag.
169.
2. Being perfected, and in due form, it forms an express lien
upon the vessel. Bottomry is a lien of the strictest kind, only
seamen's wages having precedence of it. The Dowthorpe, 2 W.
Rob. 73; 9 Eng. Ad. Rep. 79.
Having stipulated for and obtained an express lien of the
highest character, as by bottomry, the material man, or lender,
necessarily loses, or waives, the implied or tacit hypothecation,
which he might otherwise have had.
Because the two liens are inconsistent, being of a different
nature. One may coexist with a claim upon the owner; the
other cannot. A bottomry bond binding the owner is held void
as to that part, in order to sustain the express lien. The common law maxim applies, Bxpressum facit cessare tacitzim.
The Nestor, 1 Sumn. 1, 78, 83, 86; Abbott on Ship. from Molloy, 198; The Nelson, before cited; The Tartar, 1 Hag.
Maritime, like common-law liens, are lost by acts inconsistent
with the lien,-taking other securities and the like. Ramsay v.
Allegre, 12 Wheat. 611; The William Money, 2 Hag. 136;
The Betsey and Rhoda, Davies, 112; Paul v. Hayford, 22 Maine,
234; Story on Bailments, ยง 360; Swett v. Brown, 5 Mass. 180;
Buck v. Ingersoll, 11 Met. 226; Libby v. Cushman, 29 Maine,
432.
3. The libellant having selected his security, must rely upon
that alone, so far as the lien is concerned. And this security is
lost by its fraudulent character. The Tartar, 1 Hag. 14; The

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

65

Carrington v. Pratt.

Nelson, 1 Hag. 176; The Sydney Cove, 2 Dods. 1; Bouvier,
Law. Die. Tit. Fraud; Willis v. Baldwin, Doug. 450; Smith v.
Bromlby, Doug. 696 ; Alsager v. Spalding, 4 Bing. N. C. 407 ;
Smith v. Hubbs, 10 Maine, 70 ; The Ann C. Pratt, Curtis, 345 ;
Lowry v. Pierson, 2 Bailey, 324.
A court of equity will not aid a party to enforce such a contract, or to escape from the consequences. Story's Eq. 1, ยง 59;
Cases cited in note to same, 2, ยง 697.
This is equally true in the admiralty. Courts of admiralty
act as courts of equity. Brown v. Lull, 2 Sumn. 449; The
Betsey and Rhoda, Daveis, 119.
The fraud attempted in this case, if intended for the underwriters only, was upon a party directly interested, and for whom
the master was agent, in the statb of facts then existing. Bryant v. Com. Ins. Co. 6 Pick. 131; Douglass v. Moody, 9 Mass.
548.
4. The contract, being void for fraud, cdnnot be sustained for
any part. The cases where a bottomry bond has been sustained
for a part, go no further than to reject such portion as is inconsistent with the contract of bottomry, in order to give effect to
the express contract. They do not reject the contract, and give
another remedy. The Hunter, Ware, 249, stands alone, opposed
to legal principles, and that was not a case of fraud. The libellant cannot, therefore, resort to the lien he might have had but
for the bond. The Ann C. Pratt, and cases cited, Curtis, 352.
The libellant could only claim under a tacit hypothecation by
alleging his own turpitude in the matter of the bond. This the
law never permits.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in admiralty from a decree of the circuit
court of the United States for the district of Maine.
The original libel, filed by Carrington in the district court
against the brig, was founded upon a bottomry bond executed
by Airey, the mate and acting master, at the island of St.
Thomas, by which the vessel was hypothecated to the libellant
for the payment of the sum of $ 4,591.42, advanced by him for
her necessary repairs and supplies, she having arrived at that
port in a disabled condition, together with ten per cent maritime
interest, the whole sum amounting to $5,050.56.
The defence set up to the libel, so far as it is material to be
noticed, was that the bond had been executed for a much larger
sum than was loaned, and was received by the lender knowing
the same, and in fraud of the rights of the parties interested.
Upon the coming of the proofs, it appeared that the sum
really advanced to the acting master was but $83,877.25, it
6*

66

SUPREME

COURT.

Carrington v. Pratt.

being $ 714.17 less than the amount for which the bond was
given.
The proofs further showed that two sets of accounts and
vouchers were made out by the clerk of the libellant; the one
corresponding with the truth of the case, the other with the fictitious amount of the bottomry bond ; both of which sets were
forwarded to the father of the captain of the brig, with letters
of advice, both from the lender and Airey, the mate, informing
him that the bond was given for the larger sum, and the false
accounts and vouchers sent, to enable the owner to make a claim
for the same against the underwriters upon the vessel. Captain
Pratt, the master of the brig, was on shore with the ship's papers, at St. Michael, when the storm occurred that disabled the
vessel, and became separated from her, when Airey, the mate,
took the command and proceeded to St. Thomas. By an arrangement between Airey and the libellant, it was agreed that
the former should draw a bill in favor of the latter, upon the
father of Captain Pratt, for the actual sum advanced, and, if
paid at maturity, (thirty days' sight,) the maritime interest of
ten per cent would be relinquished. This accounts for the communication of the parties with the father on the subject, instead
of with Captain Pratt himself.
The district court, after allowing an amendment of teilibel
at the sitting, setting up a claim upon the vessel for the true sum
advanced, with the maritime interest, held that a lien existed
upon the brig, in favor of the libellant, for this amount, by operation of the general admiralty law, and decreed accordingly.
The claimant appealed to the circuit court ; that court reversed the decree below, and dismissed the libel, concurring with
the district judge that the bottomry bond was fraudulent and
void, and could not be admitted as the foundation of a decree
in favor of the libellant, for any amount; but differed with him
upon the other question in the case, and held that the contract
between Airey and the lender, for security by bottomry, and fulfilment of that agreement by the execution of the bond, were
acts wholly inconsistent with the idea of a general or implied
maritime lien on the vessel, and that none therefore existed.
Upon full consideration, we all agree that the decree of the
circuit court is right, and should be affirmed.
As it respects the right to a recovery upon a bottomry bond,
the libellant is met by the defence resting upon the familiar principle, that a court administering justice upon principles of equity
will not lend its aid to enforce the fulfilment of a contract in
favor of a party to it, which is founded in fraud. 2 Story's Eq.
ยง 298, and cases. In such cases, the court leaves both parties
where the law finds them, giving no relief or countenance to

DECEM1BER TERM, 1855.

67

Carrington v. Pratt.

claims of this description. Here, the underwriters, who were
sought to be defrauded by the use of the fictitious accounts and
vouchers, were directly hnterested in the transaction, as the fair
expenses of the repairs of the brig fell within one of the perils
insured against. Any contrivance, therefore, to exaggerate them,
or by which evidence could be furnished to enable the owner to
recover on his policy a greater amount than actually advanced,
was dishonest and fraudulent, and can receive no countenance
in a court of justice..
It is insisted, however, that the security should be held valid
for the amount actually advaiced, conceding it to be void for
the excess. It is true, that a bottomry bond may be good in
part and bad in part, and may be upheld even in cases when
taken for a sum in the aggregate larger than that which properly
constitutes a lien upon the vessel within this species of security.
There are many cases to this effect. Abbot, 126, n.; 1 Wheat.
107; 8 Pet. 228. These are cases, however, in which the items
rejected were not properly 6hareable on the ship, or were embraced within the bond from inadvertence or mistake, and entirely consistent with the good fhith of the parties in the transaction. They stand upon widely different principles from those
where the objectionable items are fiqtitious, and inserted in the
bond with the intent to defraud third persons. The entire security in such cases becomes tainted with the fraud, and a particeps criminis is not allowed to conic into court to enforce it, even
for the money advanced or expended; for to permit it would
afford countenance to the fraud by giving partial effect to it.
By* holding the security valid to the extent of the loan, rejecting the excess, the guilty party would risk nothing; for,
when detected in the fraud, he would still be enabled to reimburse himself for the amount really due. We have seen that
the rule of equity - and which is the rule of admiralty in such.
cases - refuses to interfere for relief, and leaves the parties
where the law finds them.
Assuming, then, the bond to be void, as an hypothecation for
the money advanced, and, therefore, not available to charge the
vessel, can the lender resort to the general or implied maritime
lien that it is claimed attaches in cases of repairs or advances in
the foreign port, in the absence of any special agreement to the
contrary ?
We think not. The contract of hypothecation, by bottomry,
under which the money was loaned, is different from that implied by the general admiralty law. In the one case, the money
advanced is payable only in the event of the safe arrival of the
vessel at the port of destination, the lender taking the responsibility of the sea-risk, and entitled to charge extraordinary inter-

68

SUPREME COURT.
Carrington v. Pratt.

est. According to the terms of the bond in this case, Carrington and Company, the lenders,- agreed to stand to and bear the
hazard and adventure thereof, on the Wll or body of the said
brig, during her voyage''; and the condition is, "to pay or
cause to be paid at the expiration of five days after first arrival
of said brig," &c. ; but, "if, during the said voyage, an utter
loss of said brig, by fire, enemies, or other casualty, shall unavoidably happen, &c., then this obligation to be void" ; and in
the case of hypothecation the owner is not personally liable for
the advance or repairs. In the other -r- the case of an implied
lien - the obligation to pay the money is absolute; and to secure the payment, the vessel, the credit of the owner and of the
master himself, are pledged.
Now, it is well settled that the lien implied by the general
admiralty law, may be waived by the express contract of the
parties, or by necessary implication ; and the implication arises
in all cases where the express contract is inconsistent with an
intention to rely upon the lien. A familiar instance is where the
money is advanced or repairs made, looking solely to the personal responsibility of the owner or master. Abbot, 125, n. ;
ibid. 116, n., Story's Ed. 1829. In that case, no credit being
given to the vessel as a security, the implied lien is necessarily
displaced.
It is true, in this case credit was given to the vessel by the
lenders, and a lien thus provided for ; but it was one altogether
different from that implied by the admiralty law, and inconsistent
with an intention to look to that as a security for the loan, as
much so as if he had agreed to look solely to the personal responsibility of the owners.
It is insisted, however, assuming the bond to be void and
inoperative, that the lender is then remitted to his implied lien,
the same as if no bond had been given. How this might be in
a case where the instrument was defective and void, for want
of authority to execute it, or for any other cause consistent with
the good faith of the parties, it is not now necessary to inquire,
or express any opinion. But we think it clear that no such principle can be admitted in a case where the bond has been avoided
on the ground that it was entered into in bad faith, and with
intent to defraud, on the part of the lenders. Any other conclusion would be giving to a party the benefit of his own turpitude, which the law forbids.
The admiralty law treats this species of security with a good
deal of indulgence, and properly so, ag the advances to the master at the foreign port by the merchant is oftentimes essential, to
enable the vessel to earn her freight, and is for the general interest of commerce. The advance is made also frequently at great

DECEMBER TfERM, 1855.

69

Holroyd v. Pumphrey.

risk, on the part of the lender, he being a stranger to the owner
and master, and must look, from necessity, mainly to the pledge
of the vessel for his security. The court, therefore, leans in
favor of upholding these hypothecations, disregarding technical
objections .and nice distinctions, which sometimes invalidate instruments at common law; but, they are the creatures of necessity
and distress, and are entered into in the absence of the owner,
who has no opportunity to guard his interests; and the transactions, therefore, out of which they arise should be strictly
watched, and the observance of the utmost good faith exacted
from all the parties concerned.
It has been recently held, in the court of exchequer in England, that the master can pledge the ship for repairs, or loan of
money for that purpose, in the foreign port, only by bottomry
security; and that, in the absence of this, the merchant must
look to the personal'responsibility of the owner or master. 73
Eng. Com. Law R. 417; Stainbank and Ambler v. Shepherd.
As this question does not necessarily arise in this case, it is
not important to inquire as to the rule of the admiralty in this
country in this respect.
Judgment of the court below affirmed.
6

JOHN HOLROYD, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

v.

LEVI Pum.PHREY.

Where property stood assessed upon the books of the corporation of Washington in
the name of James Thomas, and was sold for taxes, the sale was good, although
James Thomas was dead when the taxes were levied.
Nor was such sale invalid upon the ground that the corporation had, in a prior year,
sold the property as belonging to the heirs of James Thomas, which sale was not
carried out to completion.
The act of congress, passed on 26th May, 1824, (4 Stats. at Large, 76,) provides for
the case.

Tnis case was brought up by writ of error from the circuit
court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden
in and for the bounty of Washington.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by MAr. Davis and .ir. Lawrence, for the plaintiff in error, and Mkr. Carlisle and Mr. Bradley, for the defendant
in error.

The points did not involve any general principles of law, and
are, therefore, omitted.
Air. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was commenced by the plaintiff, to recover a lot

