404

SUPREME COURT.
The Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French et al.

THE LAFAYETTE INSURANCE COMPANY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v.
MAYNARD FRENCH, EDWARD K. STRONG, AND THOMAS B.
FINE.
Where a corporation is sued, it is not enough, in order to give jurisdiction, to say that
the corporation is a citizen of the State where the suit is brought. But an averment
is suficient, when admitted by a demurrer, that the corporation was created by the
laws of the State, ad d its principal place of business there
Where a corporation, chartered by the State of Indiana, was allowed by a law of Ohio
corporation
theproccss
upon of
as service
considered
should
to transact
in the]atter
State he
upon
the condition
that service
upon
the corporation
agent ofbusiness
the
itself, a judgment against the corporation, obtained by means of such process, ought
e faith and credit that it was entitled
to have been received in Indiana with th
to in
Ohio.
of Ohio had a right to impose such a condition; and when the company
State
The
sent its agent into the State, it must be presumed to have assented to the rule.
If the judgment was recovered in Ohio against the company by an erroncous name,
but the suit upon the judgment was brought in Indiana against the company using
its chartered name correctly, accompanied with an averment that it was the same
company this mistake is no ground of error; it could only be taken advantage of
by a plea in abatement, in the suit in which the first judgment was recovered.

TiS case was brought up, by a writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the district of Indiana.
In 1886, the legislature of Indiana chartered the Lafayette
Insurance Company with the usual powers of a company to insure against losses by fire. Their principal office or place of
business was at Lafayette, in Indiana, but they also had an
office at Cincinnati, in the county of Hamilton and State of
Ohio. At the latter place the agent issued a policy to the deagainst fire, wh~ich
fendants in error, to insure certain property brought
upon the
An action was
was afterwards consumed.
policy in Ohio, the process being served upon the agent, and a
judgment was entered against the company. Upon a record of
this judgment, an action was brought in the circuit court of the
United States, in Indiana, and judgment again entered against
the company.
Upon the trial the plaintiffs offered in evidence a copy of the
record of the case, as tried in Ohio, to the introduction of which
objected for the following reasons, namely :the1.defendant
Because said judgment record shows and evidences a judgDirectors, and Company
ment recovered against "The President,and
does not show or eviof the Lafayette Insurance Company,"
against this defendant.
dence the recovery of a judgment
2. Because said judgment record does not show or evidence
as required by law,
this defendant
the service of process upon defendant
by attorney, or otherwise
nor the appearance of this

in said action or suit in said commercial court, and that said
oudgmft as a judgment, is therefore a nullity.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

405

The Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French et al.

al?

3. Because the said judgment record does not evidence the
existence or rendition of a judgment inpersonam against said
defendant.
But the court admitted the evidence. Some of the counts in
the declaration being upon the policy as well as the record, the
plaintiffs then introduced evidence to show the loss, value, &c.,
of the property insured. Judgment was rendered against the
defendants for $2,817.11.
It was argued in this court by Mr. Gillett, for the plaintiff in
error, and submitted upon a printed argument by Mgfr. 0. H.
Smith, for the defendants.
Pending the argument a copy of a law of Ohio was produced
(Ohio General Laws, vol. 45, p. 17) entitled "An Act to authorize suits upon contracts of insurance to be brought in the county
in which the contract may be made," the third section of which
provided for the service of process, as in this case.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit court of the United States
for the district of Indiana, in an action of debt on a judgment
recovered in the commercial court of Cincinnati, in the State of
Ohio. In the declaration, the plaintiffs are averred to be citizens
of Ohio ; and they "complain of the Lafayette Insurance Company, a citizen of the State of Indiana." This averment is not
sufficient to show jurisdiction. It does not appear from it that
the Lafayette Insurance Company is a corporation; or, if it be
such, by the law of what State it was created. The averment,
that the company is a citizen of the State of Indiana, can have
no sensible meaning attached to it. This court does not hold,
that either a voluntary association of persons, or an association
into a body politic, created by law, is a citizen of a State within
the meaning of the constitution. And, therefore, if the defective
averment in the declaration had not been otherwise supplied, the
suit must have been dismissed. But the plaintiff's replication
alleges that the defendants are a corporation, created under the
laws of the State of Indiana, having its principal place of business in that State. These allegations are confessed by the demurrer; and they bring the case within the decision of this court
in Marshall v. The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company,
16 How. 314, and the previous decisions therein referred to.
Upon the merits, it was objected that the judgment declared
on was rendered by the commercial court of Cincinnati, without
jurisdiction over the person sued; and the argument was, that
as this corporation was created by a law of the State of Indiana,
it could have no existence out of that State, and, consequently,
could not be sued in Ohio.

SUPREME COURT.
The Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French et al.

The precise facts upon which this objection depends are, that
this corporation was created by a law of the State of Indiana,
and had its principal office for business within that State. It
had also an agent authorized to contract for insurance who resided in the State of Ohio. The contract on which the judgment in question was recovered was made in Ohio, and was to
be there performed; because it was a contract with the citizens
of Ohio to insure property within that State. A statute of Ohio
makes special provision for suits against foreign corporations,
founded on contracts of insurance there made by them with citizens of that State ; and one of its provisions is, that service of
process on such resident agent of the foreign corporation shall
be "as effectual as though the same were served on the principal."
The question is, whether a judgment recovered in Ohio against
the Indiana corporation, upon a contract made by that corporation in Ohio with citizens of that State to insure property there,
after the law above mentioned was enacted, -service of process
having been made on such resident agent, - is a judgment entitled to the same faith and credit in the State of Indiana as in
the State of Ohio, under the constitution and laws of the United
States.
No question has been made that this judgment would be held
binding in the State of Ohio, and would there be satisfied out
of any property of the defendants existing in that State.
The act of May 26, 1790, (1 Stats. at Large, 122,) gives to a
judgment rendered in any State such faith and credit as it had
in the courts of the State where it was recovered. But this
provision, though general in its terms, does not extend to judgments rendered against persons not amenable to the jurisdiction
rendering the judgments. D'Arcy v. Ketchum, 11 How. 165.
And, consequently, notwithstanding the act of congress, whenever an action is brought in one State on a judgment recovered
in another, it is not enough to show it to be valid in the State
where it was rendered; it must also appear that the defendant
was either personally within the jurisdiction of the State, or had
legal notice of the suit, and was in some way subject to its laws,
so as to be bound to appear and contest the suit, or suffer a judgment by default. In more general terms, the doctrine of this
court, as well as of the courts of many of the States, is, that this
act of Congress was not designed to displace that principle of
natural justice which requires a person to have notice of a suit
before he can be conclusively bound by its result; nor those
rules of public law which protect persons and property within
one State from the exercise of jurisdiction ovei them by another.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

407

The Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French et al.

This corporation, existing only by virtue of a law of Indiana,
cannot be deemed to pass personally beyond the limits of that
State. Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519. But it does not

necessarily follow that a valid judgment could be recov6red
against it only in that State. A corporation may sue in a foreign state, by its attorney there; and if it fails in the suit, be
subject to a judgment for costs. And so if a corporation, though
in Indiana, should appoint un attorney to appear, in an action
brought in Ohio, and the attorney should appear, the court would
have jurisdiction to render a judgment, in all respects as obligatory as if the defendant were within the State. The inquiry is,
not whether the defendant was personally within the State, but
whether he, or some one authorized to act for him in reference
to the suit, had notice and appeared; or, if he did not appear,
whether lie was bound to appear or suffer a judgment by default.
And the true question in this case is, whether this corporation
had such notice of the suit, and was so far subject to the jurisdiction and laws of Ohio, that it was bound to appear, or take
the consequences of non-appearance.
A corporation created by Indiana can transact business in
Ohio only with the consent, express or implied, of the latter
State. 13 Pet. 519. This consent may be accompanied by such
conditions as Ohio may think fit to impose; and these conditions
must be deemed valid and effectual by other States, and by this
court, provided they are not repugnant to the constitution or
laws of the United States, or inconsistent with those rules of
public law which secure the jurisdiction and authority of each
State from encroachment by all others, or that principle of natural justice which forbids condemnation without opportunity for
defence.
In this instance, one of the conditions imposed by Ohio was,
in effect, that the agent who should reside in Ohio and enter
into contracts of insurance there in behalf of the foreigii corporation, should also be deemed its agent to receive-service of process in suits founded on such contracts. We find nothing in
this provision either unreasonable in itself, or in conflict with any
principle of public law. It cannot be deemed unreasonable that
the State of Ohio sh6uld endeavor to secure to its citizens a
remedy, in their domestic forum, upon this important class of
contracts made and to be performed within that State, and fully
subject to its laws; nor that proper means should be used to
compel foreign corporations, transacting this business of insurance within the State, for their benefit and profit, to answer
there for the breach of their contracts of insurance there made
and to be performed.

408

SUPREM1E

COURT.

The Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French et al.

Nor do we think the means adopted to effect this object are
open to the objection, that it is an attempt improperly to extend
the jurisdiction of the State beyond its own limits to a person in
another State. Process can be served on a corporation only by
making service thereof on some one or more of its agents. The
law may, and ordinarily does, designate the agent or officer on
whom process is to be served. For the purpose of receiving such
service, and being bound by it, the borporation is identified with
such agent or officer. The corporate power to receive and act on
such service, so far as to make it known to the corporation, is
thus vested in such officer or agent. Now, when this corporation
sent its agent into Ohio, with authority to make contracts of insurance there, the corporation must be taken to assent to the
condition upon which alone such business could be there trans
acted by them; that condition being, that an agent, to make
contracts, should also be the agent of the corporation to receive
service of process in suits on such contracts; and, in legal contemplation, the appointment of such an agent clothed him with
power to receive notice, for and on behalf of the corporation, as
effectually as if he were designated in the charter as the officer
on whom process was to be served; or, as if he had received from
the president and directors a power of attorney to that effect.
The process was served within the limits and jurisdiction of
Ohio, upon a person qualified by law to represent the corporation
there in respect to such service; and notice to him was notice to
the corporation which he there represented, and for whom he
was empowered to take notice.
We consider this foreign corporation, entering into contracts
made and to be performed in Ohio, was under an obligation to
attend, by its duly authorized attorney, on the courts of that
State, in suits founded on such contracts, whereof notice should
be given by due process of law, served on the agent of the corporation resident in Ohio, and qualified by the law of Ohio and
the presumed assent of the corporation to receive and act on such
notice; that this obligation is well founded in policy and morals,
and not inconsistent with any principle of public law; and that
when so sued on such contracts in Ohio, the corporation was
personally amenable to that jurisdiction ; and we hold such a
judgment, recovered after such notice, to be as valid as if the
corporation had had its habitat within the State; that is, entitled
to the same faith and credit in Indiana as in Ohio, under the
constitution and laws of the United States.
We limit our decision to the case of a corporation acting in a
State foreign to its creation, under a law of that State which
recognized its existence, for the purposes of making contracts
there and being sued on them, through notice to its contracting

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

409

Stanford v. Taylor.

agents. The case of natural persons, and of other foreign corwhich might or
considerations,
porations, is attended with otherthis
we give no opinion.
might not distinguish it; upon
This decision renders it unnecessary to consider the questions
arising under the counts on the policy.
It was objected that the judgment recovered in the commercial
court was against "the president, directors, and company of the
Lafayette Insurance Company," while this action is against the
"Lafayette Insurance Company" ; but the declaration describes
the judgment correctly, and then avers that the judgment was
recovered against the defendants by that other name. We must
assume that this fact was proved; and the only question open
here is, whether, if a mistake be made in the name of a defendant, and he fails to plead it in abatement, the judgment binds
him, though called by &wrong name. Of this we have no doubt.
Evidence that it was an erroneous name of the same person must,
therefore, be admissible; otherwise, a mistake in the defendant's
name, instead of being available only by a plea in abatement,
would render a judgment wholly inoperative.
In the case of the Medway Cotton Manufactory v. Adams,
10 Mass. 360, the plaintiffs, a corporation, declared on a promissory note made to Richardson, Metcalf, and Co., and averred
that the maker promised the corporation by that name. The
defendant demurred to the declaration, and assigned, in argument, the same cause which has been relied on at the bar in this
case, - that it was not competent to prove by parol evidence that
the promisce of the note was the corporation, the name not being
the same. The court held otherwise, and overruled the demurrer.
A similar decision was made in an action of debt on bond by
the supreme court of New York, in the case of New York African
Society v. Varick et al. 13 Johns. 38. See, also, Inhabitants,
&c. v. String, 5 Halst. 323; and the authorities cited in the cases
in New York and Massachusetts.
The decision of the circuit court is affirmed.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL dissented.

JOSHUA R. STANFORD, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. CLAY TAYLOR.
Where an imperfect Spanish title to land in Missouri was confirmed by the commissioners, but the claim required a survey to ascertain its limits and boundaries, evidence cannot be received that the survey was erroneously made, by showing pos35
VOL. XVIII.

