SUPREME COURT.
Mechanics' and Traders' Bank v. Debolt.

serted, and when the sovereignty of the people was a living and
operative principle, and governments were administered subject
to the limitations and with reference to the specific ends for
which they were organized, and their members recognized their
responsibility and dependence, I feel no anxiety nor apprehension
in leaving to the people of Ohio a "complete power" over their
government, and all the institutions and establishments it has
called into existence. My conclusion is, that the decree of the
circuit court of Ohio is erroneous, and that the judgment of this
court should be to reverse that decree and to dismiss the bill of
the plaintif
Mr. Justice DANIEL:
" I concur entirely in the preceding opinion of my brother
Campbell."
Mr. Justice CATRON:
"I also dissent, and concur wish the conclusions of the opinion
just read."

THE MECHANICS' AND TRADERS' BANK, BRANCH OF THE STATE
BANK OF OIO, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. HENRY DEBOLT, LATE
TREASURER OF HAMILTON COUNTY.
The decision in the preceding case of Dodge v. Woolsey again affirmed.

Tins case was brought up from the supreme court of the State
of Ohio, by a writ of error, issued under the 25th section of the
judiciary act.
It originated in the court of common pleas in the county of
Hamilton and State of Ohio, and was an action brought by the
bank against Debolt, the nature of which is explained in the following agreed case.
The parties 'above named hereby agree upon the following
facts, upon which a controversy depends between them, and submit the case to the court of common pleas for determination and
judgment, in pursuance of section four hundred and ninety-five
of the code of civil procedure: It is agreed that the plaintiff is a duly authorized banking
company, under the hct passed by the general assembly of the
State of Ohio, on the 24th day of February, 1845, entitled, "An
Act to incorporate the State Bank of Ohio, and other banking
companies," which act is made a part of this case; that at the
foundation thereof, on the 30th day of June, 1845, it assumed

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

881

Mechanics' and Traders' Bank v. Debolt.

to itself a capital of $100,000, and elected to be a branch of the
State Bank of Ohio, and, as such branch, has, from the said
time of its organization under said act to the present time, carried on the business of banking in the city of Cincinnati.
It is further agreed that the sixtieth section of the said act is
in the words following, namely: "Each banking company organized under this act, or accepting thereof and complying with
its provisions, shall, semiannually, on the days designated in the
fifty-ninth section for declaring dividends, set off to the State
six per centum on the profits, deducting therefrom the expenses
and ascertained losses of the company for the six months next
preceding, which sum or amount so set off shall be in lieu of all
taxes to which said company, or the stockholders thereof, on account of stock owned therein, could otherwise be subject; and
the cashier shall, within ten days thereafter, inform the auditor
of state of the amount so set off, and shall pay the same to the
treasurer of state on the order of said auditor;. but in computing the profits of the company, for the purposes aforesaid,
the interest received on the funded debt of this State, held by
the company, or deposited with and transferred to the treasurer of
State, or to the board of control, by such company, shall not be
taken into account"; and it is further agreed, that the days
named in the fifty-ninth section of said act, and referred to in
the said sixtieth section, are the first Monday in May and the
first Monday in November.
It is further agreed, that on the first Monday in May, 1851,
the said bank did set off to the State, according to the provisions of said section, the sum of $195.65; and on the first Monday in November of the same year, the further sum of $241.72;
and it is agreed that the said sums so set off were in fact six
per centum upon the profits of said bank during the half years
then respectively expiring, after deducting, according to the
provisions of said sixtieth section, the expenses and ascertained losses of the said company for the said periods respectively.
It is further agreed, that the auditor of State did, subsequently, direct the said amounts to be paid to the treasurer of
State, and that the said order was presented to and paid by
the plaintiff on the twenty-fifth day of November, in the year
1851.
It is further agreed, that subsequent to the said payment to
the treasurer of State, upon said order of the auditor of State,
the auditor of Hamilton County proceeded to list the capital
stock of said bank, and its surplus and contingent fund, upon
the tax-list of said county, at the sum of $102,462, and added
to the said assessment a penalty of fifty per centum, and charged

SUPREME COURT.
fechanics' and Traders' Bank v. Debolt.

upon the said sums, amounting in all to $153,092, a tax of
mills on the dollar.
$2,296.38, being at the rate of
It is further agreed, that on the 22d day of March, 1854, the
said Henry Debolt, treasurer aforesaid, did forcibly, and against
the consent and protest of the plaintiff, take from the plaintiff
the said tax of $2,296.38, together with the further sum of
$114.82, being a penalty of five per centum thereon, making in
all the sum of $2,411.20.
It is further agreed, that the said proceedings of said treasurer
of Hamilton County, and of said county auditor, were taken in
accordance with the provisions of an act of the general assembly
of the State of Ohio, passed on the 21st day of March, in the
year 1851, entitled "An Act to tax banks and bank and other
stocks, the same as other property is now taxable by the laws of
this State" ; and it is agreed, that the first section of the said
act is in the words following, namely: "That it shall be the duty of the president and cashier of each
and every banking institution iicorporated by the laws of this
State, and having the right to issue bills or notes for circulation,
at the time for listing personal property under the laws of this
State, to list the capital stock of such banking institution, under
oath, at its true value in money, and return the same, with the
amount of surplus and contingent fund belonging to said banking institution, to the assessor of the township or ward in which
such banking institution is located, and the amount so returned
shall be placed on the grand duplicate of the proper county, and
upon the city duplicate for city taxes, in cases where such city
tax does not go upon the grand duplicate, but is collected by the
city officers, and taxed for the same purposes and to the same
extent that personal property is or may be required to be taxed
in the place where such bank is located; and such tax shall be
collected and paid over in the same manner that taxes on other
personal property are required by law to be collected and paid
over. Provided, however, that the capital stock of any bank
shall not be returned or taxed for a less amount than its capital
stock paid in."
It is further agreed that the plaintiff, the said Mechanics'
and Traders' Bank, has never accepted the said act, nor any part
of the said act passed on the twenty-first day of March, 1851,
as an amendment to the charter of said bank, nor in any way
assented to the same as a valid law, so far as the said act related
to the said bank, and to the listing of the capital stock and surplus, and contingent fund of said bank, and to the payment of
any tax thereon, different from the tax provided for in the said
sixtieth section of the said act passed on the 24th day of February, 1845; and it is agreed that the said first section of the

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

$83

Mechanics' and Traders' Bank v. Debolt.

said act passed on the 21st day of March, 1851, does provide for
a tax different from the tax prescribed by the said sixtieth section of the act passed on the 24th of February, 1845.
The controversy between the parties depends upon the following questions, namely: whether the act passed on the 21st day
of March, in the year 1851, entitled "An Act to tax banks and
bank and other stocks, the same as other property is now taxable by the laws of this State," is contrary to the constitution of
the United States, so far as the said act relates to the said Mechanics' and Traders' Bank, imposes upon the said bank any
tax. If the court shall determine this question in the affirmative, then judgment is to be entered in favor of the plaintiff
against the said defendant, for the sum of 8 2,411.20, with interest from the 22d day of March, in the year 1854. If the court
shall decide the said question in the negative, then judgment is
to be entered against the plaintiff for costs. It is agreed that
all other questions are waived, and that the judgment to be entered herein shall be subject to review and reversal as in other
cases.
Upon this state of facts, the court of common pleas rendered
a judgment in favor of the defendant, and gave a certificate
that the controversy depended upon the question whether the
act passed by the general assembly of Ohio on the 21st of March,
1851, was contrary to the constitution of the United States,
so far as the said act related to the Mechanics' and Traders'
Bank. The certificate further stated that the supreme court
of Ohio decided the said act to be valid, and not contrary to the
constitution.
A writ of error brought this judgment before this court for
review.
rI. Stanberry, for the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Pugh, for
the defendant in error, considered that all the questions which
arose in this case had been fully argued in the preceding case of
Woolsey v. Dodge.
Mr.Perry filed a brief for the plaintiff in error, entering into
an elaborate examination of the points in the case.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered'the opinion of the court.
Upon our examination of the agreed statement in this case,
we find that it is ruled by the cases of The Piqua Branch of the
State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop, 16 How. 369, and that of Dodge
v. Woolsey, decided at this term. We therefore reverse the decree of the supreme court, and direct a mandate to issue accordingly.
Mr. Justice CATRON, Mr. Justice DANIEL, and Mr. Justice
CAMPBELL, dissented.

