DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

511

Maxwell v. Newbold et al.

Our conclusion is, there is no error in the final decree, rendered in the circuit court.
At a subsequent term, the appellant filed a petition in the
circuit court, alleging that he had been deceived by the appellee
in reference to the prosecution of the bill, and had consequently
failed to make any appearance or answer, and that lie had a
meritorious defence.
He prayed the court to set aside the decree, and to allow him
to file an answer to the bill. This petition was dismissed. We
concur in the judgment of the circuit court as to the propriety
of this course. This court, in Brockett v. Brockett, 2 How.
238, determined that an appeal would not lie from the refusal
of a court to open a former decree, though the petition in that
case was filed during the term at which the decree was entered.
In Cameron v. McRoberts, 3 Wheat. 591, it decided that the
circuit courts have no power to set aside their decrees in equity
on motion after the term at which they were rendered.
These decisions are conclusive of the questions raised upon
the order dismissing the petition.
The decrees of the circuit court are affirmed, with costs.

JOSHUA

MAXWELL AND HENRY N. WALKER, PLAINTIFFS
ERROR, v. ALEXANDER H. NEWBOLD AND OTHERS.

IN

In order to give jurisdiction to this court, under the 25th section of the judiciary act of 1789, it must appear by the record that one of the questions stated
in the section did arise, and was decided in the state court; and it is not sufficient
that it might have arisen or been applicable; it must appear that it did arise, and
was applied.
This rule was established in the case of Crowell v. Randall, 10 Pet. 368, and has been
since adhered to.
Hence an allegation that "the charge of the court, the verdict of the jury, and the
judgment below are each against. and in conflict with, the constitution and laws of
the United States, and therefore erroneous," is too general and indefinite to come
within the provisions of the act of congress or the decisions of this court.
The clause in the constitution and the law of congress should have been specified by
the plaintiffs in error in the state court, in order that this court might see what was
the right claimed by them, and whether it was denied to them by the decision of the
state court.

THIS case was brought up from the supreme court of the
State of fichigan, by a writ of error, issued under the 25th
section of the judiciary act.
The facts are fully set forth in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Jfr. Lawrence and Mr. Haven, for the

"

512

SUPREMIE

COURT.

Maxwell v. Newbold et al.

plaintiffs in error, and Mr. Cushin-, (attorney-general,) for the
defendants.
Mr. Chief Justice TAINEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before the court upon a writ of error to the
supreme court of the State of Michigan.
The facts in the case, so far as they are material to the decision
of this court, are as follows The steamboat Globe was built in the State of Michigan,
and by the laws of that State the persons who furnish materials
for her construction had a lien upon her, and had a right to
enforce their claims by a proceeding in rem against the vessel.
Before these claims were discharged she was removed to Cleveland, in the State of Ohio, where she received her machinery
and was fitted out; and for the debts thus incurred the Ohio
creditors, like those in Michigan, had a lien on the vessel, and
were authorized to proceed against her by attachment anil
seizure.
Afterwards, when' the steamboat was in the port of Cleveland, the Ohio creditors obtained process against her, and she
was seized, condemned, and sold, according to the laws of that
State, to satisfy these liens. A certain E. S. Sterling became
the purchaser at this sale, and afterwards sold her to Maxwell,
one of the plaintiffs in error.
After these proceedings, the steamboat returned to Michigan,
and was there seized by virtue of the prior lien created by the
laws of that State, as above mentioned. The party at whose
instance and for whose benefit the proceeding was instituted
under the Michigan lien, had filed his claim in the previous proceedings in Ohio, but was permitted by the court to withdraw
it without prejudice.
The plaintiffs in error, who were the owners, or had an
interest in the steamboat, appeared in the Michigan court to
defend her against this claim. And the principal ground of
defence appears to have been, that the sale in Ohio was not
made subject to the prior liens in Michigan; that it was an
absolute and unconditional sale, made by competent judicial
authority, and vested the property in the purchaser, free and
discharged from all previous liens and incumbrances.
The record contains the pleadings, evidence, and admissions
of the parties in relation to these transactions, and the proceedings in the state courts. But it is unfiecessary to state them at
large, as the above summary is sufficient to show the matter in
controversy in the state courts, and how the questions raised in
the state courts were brought before them.
At the trial in the circuit court of Michigan, the defendants

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

513

Maxwell v. Newbold et al.

in error, who were plaintiffs in that court, prayed the court to
give the following instructionj to the jury: "1. That if the jury should find, from the evidence adduced
in this cause, that the steamboat Globe, mentioned in the
declaration, has been constructed and built in this State, and
was used in navigating the waters thereof, and that the debt,
claim, or demand for which she was attached by the plaintiff
has been contracted in this State by the owners, joint-owner, or
agent thereof, on account of supplies furnished by said plaintiff
for the use of said boat, or on account of work done or materials furnished by said plaintiffs in or about the building, fitting,
furnishing, or equipping of said boat in said State; that then
said plaintiff acquired and had a lien on said boat for said debt,
claim, or demand, under and by virtue of the law of this State.
"2. That if the jury should be of the opinion, from said
evidence, that said claim or demand of said plaintiff constituted
a lien on said boat, which had been acquired as aforesaid, and
that the contracting parties were then citizens of this State; then
that such lien had not been displaced or affected by the legal
proceedings resorted to in the court of Ohio, exemplifications of
which were introduced in evidence by the defendants; that if
any title was acquired under the same, or the laws of Ohio,
such title is subordinate to the lien acquired by the plaintiff in
this State, by virtue of the laws thereof; that such proceedings
do not constitute a valid defence to this action, and that said
boat, on coming within the jurisdiction of this court, was subject
to be attached for said claim."
And the plaintiffs in error asked for the following instructions
on their part : "1. That the facts contained in the notice of defendants,
and which are admitted as true by the plaintiffs, constitute in
law a defence to the plaintiffs' action. 2. That the sale under
the laws of Ohio, if fair and bond fide, constitutes a defence to
a purchaser under such laws to a prosecution by a creditor
under the laws of this State, such as the plaintiffs in this case
have shown themselves to be. 3. That defendant Maxwell's
title is good against the lien or claim of the plaintiff Wight in
this cause, even if that of Sterling was not. 4. That the
filing of the plaintiff's claim in the Ohio court precludes him
from raising the objection that such court had no jurisdiction of
his rights so as to devest his lien by a sale in that State. 5.
That a lien under the statutes of this State, though valid in its
inception, cannot be enforced against a purchaser in good
faith under a sale under the laws of the State of Ohio, so given
in evidence."
Where'upon the court gave the instructions asked for by the

514

SUPREME COURT.
Maxwell v. Newbold et al.

defendants in error, and refused those requested by the plaintiffs, who, thereupon, excepted to t]hese opinions, and the verdict
and judgment in that court being against them, they removed
the case to the supreme court of the State, and assigned there
the following errors, for which they prayed that the judgment
of the circuit court might be reversed: "1. The court erred in charging the jury, as requested by
the plaintiffs below, and upon the points and to the effect stated
more fully in the bill of exceptions filed herein, and to which
reference is hereby had.
"12. The court erred in refusing to charge the jury as
requested by the defendants below, upon the points and to the
effect stated in the bill of exceptions filed herein, and to which,
for fuller particularity, reference is hereby had.
"3. The charge of the court, the verdict of the jury, and the
judgment below, are each against and in conflict with the constitution and laws of the United States, and therefore erroneous.
"4. By the record aforesaid, it appears that the judgment
was given against the plaintiffs in error, whereas, by the law of
the land, the said judgment should have been in favor of the
plaintiffs in error, and against the defendants in error."
But the supreme court, it appears, concurred in opinion with
the circuit court, and affirmed its judgment; and the plaintiffs
in error have now brought the case before this court by writ of
error, and have assigned here the following errors: "1. By the record aforesaid it appears that judgment was
given against the plaintiffs in error; whereas, by the law of the
land, and under the evidence appearing in the bill of exceptions,
the judgment should have been rendered in favor of the plaintiffs in error.
"12. There was drawn in question in this suit, as appears by
the said record, a statute of the United States; and the decision
and judgment of the said supreme court of the State of Michigan was against the validity of such statute.
"3. The said supreme court of the State of Michigan erred
in deciding that the said proceedings, judgment, and sale had in
the State of Ohio was not a bar to the claim prosecuted in this
suit.
"14. The said supreme court erred, in that it did not give
to the said records of judicial proceedings and sale of the steamboat Globe, had in the State of Ohio, the same faith and credit
as they have by law in the said State of Ohio."
-Upon these proceedings, as they appear in the record before
us, the first question to be considered is, whether any point
appears to have been decided in the supreme court of the State,
which will authorize this court to affirm or reverse its judgment,

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

515

Maxwell v. Newbold et al.

under the 25th section of the act of congress of 1789. The
error alleged here is, that it did not give to the records of
the judicial proceedings and sale of the steamboat, had in Ohio,
the same faith and credit that they have by law in that State.
But to bring that question for decision in this court, it is not
sufficient to raise the objection here, and to show that it was
involved in the controversy in the state court, and might, and
ought, to have been considered by it when making its decision.
It must appear on the face of the record that it was in fact
raised; that the judicial mind of the court was exercised upon
it; and their decision against the right claimed under it.
It is true, that in some of the earlier cases, when writs of
error to state courts were comparatively new in this court, a
broader and more comprehensive rule was sometimes recognized. And in the case of Miller v. Nicholls, 4 Wheat. 311, it
was said to be sufficient, to give jurisdiction, that an act of
congress was applicable to the case. But experience showed
that this rule was not a safe one; and that it might sometimes
happen, that although in one view of the subject an act of congress or a clause of the constitution might be applicable to a
case, yet the state court, upon a different view of the case,
might have decided upon principles of state law altogether
independent of any provision in the constitution or laws of the
United States, and in no wise in conflict with either. And if
this court reversed the judgment, upon the assumption that a
right claimed under the constitution or laws of the United
States, and to which the party was entitled, had been denied to
him, the reversal would sometimes be for a supposed error which
the state court had not committed, and upon a point which the
state court had not decided. Other cases might be referred to,
in which expressions are used in the opinion of the court that
might seem in some measure to sanction the doctrine in ifller
v. Nicholls; but the general current of the decisions, from the
earliest period of the court, will be found to maintain the rule
which we have hereinbefore stated. And as this want of harmony in the decisions and language of the court was calculated
to mislead and embarrass counsel in the prosecution of writs of
error to state courts, this court, at the January term of 1836,
when the subject was again brought befbre it, in the case of
Crowell v. Randall, 10 Pet. 368, determined to give the subject
a careful and deliberate examination, in order to remove any
doubts which might have arisen from previous decisions. Accordingly, all of the preceding cases are reviewed and commented on in the opinion delivered by the court in that case,
and the doctrine clearly announced, that, in order to give jurisdiction to this court, it must appear by the record that one of

516

SUPREME

COURT.

Maxwell v. Newbold et al.

the questions stated in the 25th section of the act of 1789
did arise, and was decided in the state court; and that it was
not sufficient that it might have arisen or been applicable,- it
must appear that it did arise and was applied. This rule has
been uniformly adhered to since the decision of that case. We
think it the true one, and the only one, consistent with the
spirit and language of the section referred to, which so carefully and plainly limits the authority which it confers upon this
court over the judgments of state tribunals.
Applying this principle to the case before us, the writ of error
cannot be maintained. The questions raised and decided in the
state circuit court, point altogether for their solution to the laws
of the State, and make no reference whatever to the constitution
or laws of the United States. Undoubtedly, this did not preclude the plaintiffs in error from raising the point in the supreme
court of the State, if it was involved in the case as presented to
that court. And whether a writ of error from this court will lie
or not, depends upon the questions raised °and decided in that
court. But neither of the questions made there by the errors
assigned refer in any manner to the constitution or laws of the
United States, except the third, and the language of that is too
general and indefinite to come within the provisions of the act
of congress, or the decisions of this court. It alleges that the
charge of the court was against, and in conflict with, the constitution and laws of the United States. But what right did he
claim under the constitution of the United States which was
denied him by the state court? Under what clause of the constitution did he make his claim? And what right did he claim
under an act of congress? And under what act, in the wide
range of our statutes, did he claim it ? The record does not
show, - nor can this court undertake to determine that the question as to the faith and credit due to the record and judicial
proceedings in Ohio was made or determined in the state
court, or that that court ever gave any opinion on the question.
For aught that appears in the record, some other clause in the
constitution, or some law of congress may have been relied on,
and the mind of the court never called to the clause of the constitution now assigned as error in this court.
This case cannot be distinguished from the case of Lawler v.
Walker ana others, 14 How. 149. In that case the state court
certified that there was drawn in question the validity of statutes
of the State of Ohio, &c., without saying what statutes. And
in the opinion of this court dismissing the case for want of
jurisdiction, they say: "The statutes complained of in this case
should have been stated ; without that, the court cannot apply
them to the subject-matter of ligitation to determine whether or

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

517

Watson v. Tarpley.

not they violated the constitution of the United States." So
in the case before us, the clause in the constitution and the law
of congress should have been specified by the plaintiffs in error
in the state court, in order that this court might see what was
the right claimed by them, and whether it was denied to them
by the decision of the state court.
Upon these grounds we think this writ of error cannot be
maintained, and therefore dismiss it for want of jurisdiction.

MATTHEW WATSON, PLArN1TIFF IN ERROR, V. COLIN S.
TARPLEY.
The regularity and legality of the proceedings which take place as to protest and
notice upon a dishonored bill of exchange, is a question of law for the court to
decide, and not a question to be left to tie jury.
By the general rules of commercial law, the payee or indorsee of a bill, upon its
presentment and upon refusal by the drawee to accept, has the right to immediate
recourse against the drawer. He is not bound to wait to see whether or not the bill
will be paid at maturity.
A statute of a State, which forbids a suit from being brought in such a case until after
the maturity of the bill, can have no effect upon suits brought in the courts of the
United States. So also, if the statute seeks to make the right of recovery in a suit
brought in case of non-acceptance, dependent upon proof of subsequent presentment, protest, and notice for non-payment.
The decisions of this court upon these points, examined.

THIs case came up, by writ of error, from the circuit court of
the United States for the southern district of Mississippi.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Badg'er, for the plaintiff in error, nc
counsel appearing for the defendant.
I
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 29th April, 1850, the plaintiff in error, a citizen of
Tennessee, brought this action of assumpsit against the defend.
ant, a citizen of Mississippi, in the circuit court of the United
States for the southern district of Mississippi, upon a bill of
exchange, dated 4th April, 1850, drawn by the defendant upon
Messrs. McKee, Bulkely, and Co., of New Orleans, Louisiana, for
8 2,327.49, payable twelve months after date, in favor of James
Bankhead, and by him indorsed to the plaintiff, and declared in
two counts, - one on the non-acceptance and the other on the
non-payment of the said bill. Pr. Rec., p. 4. The defendant
pleaded " non assumpsit," and on this plea issue was joined,
(page ,ix,) and the action tried on the 11th of January, 1855,
VOL. XV,,i.

44

