DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

489

Masters and Son v. Barreda and Brother.

fulfilled, the stockholders are entitled to such an administration
as will be most beneficial to them, or to a sale of the trust property in the manner prescribed by the statute of Mississippi. Nor
is the objection to the form of the suit tenable. If the trust
estate had been liquidated and the interests of the stockholders
ascertained, any stockholder might have maintained a suit for
his aliquot share without including any other stockholder.
Smith v. Snow, 8 Mad. C. R. 310. But the trust estate has
not been sold, nor are the names of all the stockholders ascertained, the trustee is called on to account, and the bill asks for
the collection and disposal of the remaining property under the
authority of the court of chancery.
The stockholders are interested in these questions, and are
then proper parties to the bill. The number of the parties
renders it impracticable to bring all before the court, and therefore the suit may be prosecuted in the form which has been
employed in this suit. This court sustained such a bill in the
case of Smith v. Swormstedt, 16 How. 288.
We do not intend to decide any of the questions of the cause
which may arise as to the mode of administering the relief
prayed for in this bill. Our opinion is that the plaintiffs have
shown a proper case for equitable interposition by the circuit
court, and that the decree of that court dismissing the bill is
erroneous.
Decree reversed, and cause remanded.

SOLOMON S. MASTERS AND WILLIAM K. MASTERS, TRADING AS
PARTNERS UNDER THE FIRi AND STYLE OF S. S. MASTERS
AND SON, PLAINTiFFS IN ERROR, v. FREDERICK L. BARREDA
AND PHILLIPPE BARREDA, TRADING AS PARTNERS UNDER THE
FIRM OF F. L. BARREDA AND BROTHER.
When there is a dealing between merchants, for successive cargoes of merchandise
upon time, for which notes of hand were to be given, payable from the date of the
ascertainment of the quantity of each cargo, and an arrangement is afterwards made
for the substitution of an interest account for the notes which were to be given;
and, in that arrangement, the seller stipulates that the allowance of the interest
account should depend upon the continuance of the original time of credit, and
that the buyer's balance on account should always be under a certain sum; and the
buyer exceeds that amount and refuses to make a remittance or payment, upon the
call of the seller, to bring the account within that sum, the seller may arrest the
further delivery of any cargo or cargoes, though the same was in the course of
being delivered to the buyer upon the seller's indorsement of the invoices and bills
of lading of such cargoes.
In the absence of all understanding between the buyer and seller, that any cargo

490

SUPREME COURT.
Masters and Son -a.Barreda and Brother.

which had been delivered and not actually paid for, though notes of hand had been
given for the same, was not to be considered within the new arrangement, such
cargo must be taken into the computation in ascertaining whether the balance due
by the buyer exceeds the amount of credit allowed to him.
In this case, the true construction of the new arrangement is, that the existing notes
of hand are to be counted as making a part of the limit which the buyer was not
to exceed.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the eastern district of Virginia.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
Upon the trial in the circuit court, the counsel for the plain
tiffs (the Barredas) and defendants offered several prayers to
the court as instructions to the jury, which the court declined to
grant, and instructed the jury as follows: "1. Under the contract made by the letters of the 9th, 10th,
and 11th of March, the amount for the cargo of The Lucy
Elizabeth, and for which notes had been given, must be taken
into the calculation, and charged against the defendants, in
determining whether the balance again~st them amounted to
$40,000.
"2. If, in this mode of computation, the balance against the
defendants for guano previously sold and delivered amounted
to a 40,000 at the time when the further delivery of the cargoes
of The Beatrice and The Ailsa was refused by the plaintiffl,
the refusal was justifiable under the contract. They were not
bound, in such a state of the account, to deliver' these cargoes
on credit. And, if they offered to deliver them to the payment
of the money or satisfactory security, and the defendants refused
to comply with these terms, the plaintiffs had a right to stop the
delivery, notwithstanding the previous indorsement and delivery
of the bill of lading to the defendants; and the refusal as stated
in the testimony is no breach of contract on the part of the
plaintiffs, and is not a bar to the recovery in this action of the
amount due for the guano actually received by the defendants."
To which instructions the counsel for the defendants excepted
and the jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs for $74,636.13,
with interest from 12th of September, 1854, till paid.
The case was argued in this court by Mr. ohnsoa, for the
plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Carlisle and A&. Bradley, with
whom was Mr.F. L. Smith, for defendants.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of assumpsit brought in the circuit court of
the United States for the eastern district of Virginia, by the
defendants in error, against Masters and Son, to recover from
them a balance of $77,966.13 arising from the sales of guano,

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

491

Masters and Son v. Barreda and Brother.

as stated in the bill of particulars, at pages three and four of
the record.
The transactions out of which this dispute arose commenced
on the 21st of January, 1854.
Barreda and Brother, residing in the city of Baltimore, were
largely engaged in the importation of guano into the United
States. Masters and Son were shipping and commission merchants in Alexandria, Virginia. Barreda and Brother had found
it necessary in conducting their business to establish a limit of
credit, both as to time and amount for purchases made by those
who dealt with them. For any excess above that credit, purchasers had to pay cash, or give satisfactory paper, with their
indorsement. The uncontradicted statement of the Barredas,
in their letter to Masters afd Son of the 15th May, 1854, corroborated by other circumstances, shows, that in the year 1852,
this limit of credit was $25,000; and that their dealings with
the Masters from that time, up to the sale of two cargoes of
guano on the 21st January, 1854, and afterwards, until changed
by the letters between them of the 9th and 10th March, 1854,
had been regulated accordingly.
The sale of the two cargoes of guano, just mentioned, is as
follows:

-

" We have sold to Messrs. S. S. Masters and Son iwo cargoes
of Peruvian guano,-from vessels Lucy Elizabeth three hundred
and thirty-five tons, and Giaour two hundred and seventy-one, both on their way from Peru. The said guano to be delivered
in the port of Alexandria, in Virginia, when the vessels may
arrive. Messrs. Masters and Son will act as our agents to
receive the cargo and attend to the vessels, free of any charge,
and to pay the value of the guano they may receive, at the price
of $47.50 per ton in bulk, in notes payable in Baltimore, four
months after date.
"F. BARREDA,AND BROTHER.
".Baltimore, 21st January, 1854."
Subsequently to that date, (the precise time when does not
appear from the record,) Masters and Son purchased from the
Barredas another cargo of the ship Princess Alice, and on the
18th February a fourth, - that of the ship Ailsa.
The Lucy Elizabeth arrived with her cargo at Alexandria on
the 1st February. The Giaour, with hers, about the 10th of
the same month. Masters and Son attended to unlading the
cargoes of both vessels, and sent to the Barredas a certificate of
the cargo received from The Lucy Elizabeth, on the 2d March,
namely, 485.21.4 tons of No. 1 guano, (in bulk at $,47.50 per
ton,) and 25.1.21 tons of No. 2 guano in bulk, for which they
were charged 524,108.64; the quantity of No. 2 being charged

492

SUPREME COURT.
Masters and Son v. Barreda and Brother.

to them at $ 42.50. They remitted to the Barredas on the 6th
March, three notes of hand payable on the 2d and 5th of July;
two of them for $ 8,000, and a third for $ 8,108.64; amounting
to $ 24,108.64. Up to this time, the cargoes of The Giaour and
The Princess Alice had not been ascertained, though both ships
were then being unladed under the agency of Masters and Son,
according to the arrangement in the memorandum of sale of
the 21st January. And the correspondence shows that then
there had not been any extension by the Barredas of the
amount of credit, which bad hitherto been allowed to Masters
and Son upon their previous purchases. In this state of their
dealing Masters and Son wrote to the Barredas on the 9th
March: "As our purchases are likely to be pretty large this
year, and we noticed, some time ago, that one of our mutual
friends (H. W. Fry) had arranged with you to keep an interest
account with him, at six per cent, and we, for the same reason,
prefer not to give notes. Further, as it is at timeg an advantage
to have it in our power to make payments when the local exchange is most favorable, we will be obliged, if you will allow
us also this accommodation, giving us an average credit of four
months on these other cargoes." To this letter Barreda and
Brother reply on the 10th March. They state, "1we will keep
an interest account with you, at six per cent, to facilitate your
payments, provided that you will never exceed an average time
of four months for the payment of each cargo; and that the
balance on account against you will always be under forty thousand dollars, being the largest credit we use to allow." Tle
Masters' reply in a letter of the 11th March: "Your acceptance
of our proposition, made with the view of our not having to
pay the whole value of our purchases in notes, &c., is also duly
appreciated,- and we note the conditions regarding the open
account."
At the date of this arrangement, there was charged to Masters
and Son on the books of Barreda and Brother $ 24,108.64, the value
of The Lucy Elizabeth's cargo, for which the Masters had given
three notes, payable on the 2d and 5th July. Eighteen days
after this arrangement the Masters send to the Barredas a certificate of Giaour's cargo, amounting to $17,094.34, and remit
a payment on account of it of $ 6,000. The next item in the
account is the value of the cargo of The Princess Alice, amounting to $38,029.92. But they had written to the Barredas on the
30th March, saying : "The Ailsa cannot now reach this too
soon for us, and we prefer not relinquishing our purchase of the
said cargo; and, further, we believe we are selling by considerable the bulk of the guano applied for here, (we wish it was at
a better profit,) and find the demand good. From present pros-

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

493

Masters and Son v. Barreda and Brother.

pects we shall want a cargo each ensuing month. With your
present unprecedentedly large importations, we suppose we can
make our calculations to get this supply from you without
having to look far ahead." The Barredas answer: "For the
present, we have no cargo to offer you in the time you mention."
ut on the 18th April they write: "We will send you The
Beatrice, reply immediately." Masters and Son write on the
same day: "We will take The Beatrice"; and the Barredas
rejoin: "Ship Beatrice will be ordered to you, provided she
arrives before the end of May next." She arrived on the 24th
April, and was ordered to Masters and Son. On the same day
the Barredas ask in another letter: "Will you take the Ailsa if
she arrives here ?" The Masters answer: " Send The Ailsa if
she comes as heretofore concluded upon." She arrived early in
May, and was ordered to Alexandria. Thus, in the whole, five
cargoes were bought by the Masters from the Barredas. Each
of them upon a credit of four months, notes having been given
for that of The Lucy Elizabeth, with the understanding by both
parties that notes were not to be given for the other purchases,
the quantities of which had not been ascertained when the
arrangement of the 10th March was made, and that they were
to be paid for according to that arrangement. But the value of
three of the cargoes had been ascertained, amounting, according
to the returns of Masters and Son to Barreda and Brother, to
$79,232.90. Payments had been made to the amount of $29,000.
On the 12th May the Barredas wrote, calling the attention of
Masters and Son to the state of the account, and requesting
them to make a remittance of $10,232.90, "as our limit in your
account is $40,000, and it being then beyond the limit of the
credit in the amount of the remittance asked for." In a postscript to the letter, they say: "Of course the value of The
Beatrice and Ailsa cargoes must be paid cash. 2 P. 0. off."
To this letter the Masters reply without making the remittance,
and say: " On the 9th March last, we had purchased from you
four cargoes of guano, about 2,500 tons, or 8 120,000 worth, at
four months, - no other terms mentioned, (and to this moment
we have never heard of any other,) three of the said cargoes were
received and being received, and the fourth was daily expected.
On the above-named date we asked you to allow us to keep an
interest or open account with you, as we did not like to pay the
whole value of our purchases in notes; to this you had no
objection to the value of $ 40,000 ; the balance, as we had to
infer, we must settle for agreeably to the original bill of purchase." To this letter the Barredas reply: "Yours of the 13th
instant has been received. When we first went into business
with you, we mentioned to you that our limit for credit was
VOL. XVIII.

42

494

SUPREME COURT.
Masters and Son v. Barreda and Brother.

$ 25,000, we making to you the sales of three, or four, or
twenty cargoes, our impression would have been, as was in that

case, that we were to accept your paper for $ 25,000, and the
balance that you might owe in satisfactory paper with your
indorsement. Certainly, you could never have expected us to

accept your notes for such an amount as our sales, though your
responsibility may be superior to it. Afterwards, when you
proposed to open with us an account, with interest, to facilitate
your payments,- we agreed to it; provided, that you would never
exceed an average time of four months for the payment of each
cargo, and that the balance on account against you will always
be under $ 40,000,- this being the largest credit we use to allow.
You also understood in the same way our conditions, and
took good care to make a remittance of $ 6,000, together with
the return of The Giaour's cargo, to keep yourselves within the
limits of your credit with us." In a few days after writing their
letter of the 17th, Barreda and Brother made an effort through
the agency of Mr. Coyle, to have an amicable settlement with
Masters and Son, offering to them either of the following propositions: That they would deliver to Mr. Coyle all the guano
received from The Beatrice and Ailsa, and such a portion of the
cargo of The Princess Alice as may be necessary to cover the
$10,234.90 of excess of their account,-or settle their values in
cash, less two per cent, -or give satisfactory paper with their
indorsement, payable in New York or Baltimore, at four
months from the day when the offer was made, that being the
22d of May.
Neither of these propositions were accepted, and this suit
was brought to recover the balance on account against Masters
and Son, including the value of all the guano they had received
from The Lucy Elizabeth, The Giaour, Princess Alice, Beatrice,
and Ailsa, after having given to them credit for payments
made. There is no dispute concerning either the debit or credit
side of the account, but the controversy arose from the different
view entertained by the parties as to their respective rights
under the arrangement made for an interest account and the
limit of credit mentioned in it, and whether, in the actual state
of the account and under the course pursued by the Barredas,
they were justified in arresting the delivery of the undischarged
portions of the cargoes of The Beatrice and Ailsa, on account
of the neglect and refusal of Masters and Son to make the
required remittance to reduce the account against them to
$40,000.
Our first objection to the construction of that arrangement as
given by Masters and Son, is its variance from the terms used
by them in their letter of the 9th of March, asking for the sub-

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

495

Masters and Son v. Barreda and Brother.

stitution of an interest account, instead of giving notes for their
purchases, and from their language in their letter of the 11th
March, in reply to the letter of the Barredas of the 10th, granting
their request upon the conditions mentioned in it. They preface
their application by saying, "1as our purchases will be very large
this year, we prefer not to give notes, and will be obliged if you
will allow us an interest account, giving us an average credit
of four months on these other cargoes; and in their letter
of the 11th say, your acceptance of our proposition, made with
the view of our not having to pay the whole value of our purchases in notes, &c., is also duly appreciated, and we note the
conditions regarding the open account." If from the first an application may be made that it was their intention that the favor
asked by them was to be applied to future purchases, and not
to include purchases which they had made and which had not
been paid for, there can be no doubt that their understanding
of the arrangement was,'that it was to include both, when in
thanking the Barredas for their acceptance of their proposition,
they state it was made with the view of their not having to
pay the whole value of their purchases in notes. Besides having
applied the arrangement to their purchases of the cargoes of
The Giaour and Princess Alice, both of which had been bought,
but neither of which had been ascertained when they asked
for an interest account, and when it was granted, they could
not afterwards give to the arrangement an exclusive application
to cargoes to be thereafter bought; and when they say their
request for an interest or open account had been made with the
view of not having to pay the whole value of their purchases
in notes, and afterwards say, "we note the conditions regarding
the open account," one of them being that the balance on
account against them shall never be larger than $40,000, it is
conclusive that they then understood that amount to be the
extent of their credit for all of their purchases, according to the
account as it then stood on the books of the Barredas, or as it
might be enlarged.
But it was urged that the limit of the amount of their credit
was not to exceed at the time when the Barredas wrote their
letter of the 12th May. It was said that the amount then still
due for the cargo of The Lucy Elizabeth should not have been
taken into the computation in ascertaining whether the balance
due by the Masters amounted to more than $40,000, because
that cargo had been sold under a different contract, in no way
connected with the other purchases. Such, however, was not
the fact, for The Giaour's cargo was bought under the same
memorandum of sale; and the cargo of The Princess Alice had
been bought before the cargo of The Giaour had been ascer-

496

SUPREME COURT.
Masters and Son v. Barreda and Brother.

tained; and the Masters, after the arrangement had been made
for an interest account, applied it to both, when their cargoes
were ascertained, by not giving notes for either, and transmitting their certificates of the quantity of each, without any
direction that a new and separate account of their cost should
be made of them distinct from the debit against them in the
books of the Barredas for the cargo of The Lucy Elizabeth.
Had it been intended otherwise, they should have given such a
direction; and not have said, we note the conditions regarding
the open account, the limitation of the credit to be allowed
being one of them, expressed in language so plain that it cannot
be doubted that the Barredas never meant to give to Masters
and Son a larger credit upon their purchases than $40,000;
and that, when their account exceeded it, they were to have
the right to call for payments to reduce it to that amount.
When they called for the remittance of .$10,232.90, the account
against Masters and Son exceeded it by that amount. They
failed to make the payment, and continuing to refuse to do so,
we are of the opinion that the Barredas had a right to arrest
the delivery of the cargoes of The Beatrice and Ailsa, notwithstanding the indorsement and delivery of the bills of lading to
Masters and Son, and that their refusal to deliver the same, as
stated in -the testimony, is no breach of contract, and is not
a bar to the recovery in this action of the amount due for the
guano actually received by Masters and Son. Such was the
instruction given by the court upon the trial of the case in the
circuit court; and, having expressed our concurrence with that
view, we will only add, that when there is a dealing between
merchants for successive cargoes of merchandise upon time,
for which notes of hand were to be given, payable from the
date of the ascertainment of the quantity of each cargo, and
an arrangement is afterwards made for the substitution of an
interest account for the notes which were to be given; and, in
that arrangement, the seller stipulates that the allowance of the
interest account should depend upon the continuance of the
original time of credit; and that the buyer's balance on account
should always be under a certain sum; and the buyer exceeds
that amount, and refuses to make a remittance or payment,
upon the call of the seller, to bring the account within that
sum, the seller may arrest the further delivery of any cargo or
cargoes, though the same was in the course of being delivered
to the buyer upon the seller's indorsement of the invoices and
bills of lading of such cargoes.
In the absence of all understanding between the buyer and
seller that any cargo which had been delivered and not actually
paid for, though notes of hand had been given for the same,

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

497

Beauregard, &c. v. The City of New Orleans et al.

was not to be considered within the new arrangement, such
cargo must be taken into the computation in ascertaining
whether the balance due by the buyer exceeds the amount of
credit allowed to him.
Judgment of the circuit court is affirmed.

GUSTAvUS

T.

BEAUREGARD, HEIR AND EXECUTOR OF MADAIM
POULTNEY, COMPLAINANT AND APPELLANT, V. THE
CITY OF NEW ORLEANS, WILLIAM H. LAYTON, AND OTHERS.

EMILIE

T.

The habit of this court has been to defer to the decisions of the judicial tribunals of
the States, upon questions arising out of the common law of the State, especially
when applied to the title of lands.
Therefore, where the -supreme court of Louisiana has decided questions relating to
the jurisdiction of the district court of the first judicial district of the State, over the
succession of a debtor who was enjoying a respite from the claims of his creditors,
for a certain time and died before the time expired ; to the mode in which that
jurisdiction should be exercised ; to the propriety of collaterally attacking a sale
made by its authority; to the point whether or not the death of the party transferred
the proceedings to the court of probate, and to the mode in which the court of
probate should exercise its jurisdiction; this court will adopt these decisions, and
especially where many of them concur with the judgments of this court upon the
same or similar points.
The Louisiana cases and those of this court examined.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States, for the eastern district of Louisiana.
It was a bill filed by Madam Emilie Poultney, in her lifetime, against the city of New Orleans, and about eight hundred
and fifty other parties, some of whom included a number of
persons, such as the Presbyterian Church, Bank of the United
States, &c., &c.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
In November, 1854, the circuit court dismissed the bill, and
the complainant appealed to this court.
It was argued by Hr. Hfenderson, for the appellants, and Mlfr.
Taylor, for the appellees.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff's testatrix filed this bill in the circuit court to
annul a sale of a portion of the succession of John Poultney,
deceased, which had been made under the authority of decrees
in the first district court of New Orleans, and of the court of
probate of that city, alleging a defect of jurisdiction in the courts,
and fraud and irregularity in the proceedings.
42*

