DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

497

Beauregard, &c. v. The City of New Orleans et al.

was not to be considered within the new arrangement, such
cargo must be taken into the computation in ascertaining
whether the balance due by the buyer exceeds the amount of
credit allowed to him.
Judgment of the circuit court is affirmed.

GUSTAvUS

T.

BEAUREGARD, HEIR AND EXECUTOR OF MADAIM
POULTNEY, COMPLAINANT AND APPELLANT, V. THE
CITY OF NEW ORLEANS, WILLIAM H. LAYTON, AND OTHERS.

EMILIE

T.

The habit of this court has been to defer to the decisions of the judicial tribunals of
the States, upon questions arising out of the common law of the State, especially
when applied to the title of lands.
Therefore, where the -supreme court of Louisiana has decided questions relating to
the jurisdiction of the district court of the first judicial district of the State, over the
succession of a debtor who was enjoying a respite from the claims of his creditors,
for a certain time and died before the time expired ; to the mode in which that
jurisdiction should be exercised ; to the propriety of collaterally attacking a sale
made by its authority; to the point whether or not the death of the party transferred
the proceedings to the court of probate, and to the mode in which the court of
probate should exercise its jurisdiction; this court will adopt these decisions, and
especially where many of them concur with the judgments of this court upon the
same or similar points.
The Louisiana cases and those of this court examined.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States, for the eastern district of Louisiana.
It was a bill filed by Madam Emilie Poultney, in her lifetime, against the city of New Orleans, and about eight hundred
and fifty other parties, some of whom included a number of
persons, such as the Presbyterian Church, Bank of the United
States, &c., &c.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
In November, 1854, the circuit court dismissed the bill, and
the complainant appealed to this court.
It was argued by Hr. Hfenderson, for the appellants, and Mlfr.
Taylor, for the appellees.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff's testatrix filed this bill in the circuit court to
annul a sale of a portion of the succession of John Poultney,
deceased, which had been made under the authority of decrees
in the first district court of New Orleans, and of the court of
probate of that city, alleging a defect of jurisdiction in the courts,
and fraud and irregularity in the proceedings.
42*

498

SUPREME

COURT.

Beauregard, &e. v. The City of New Orleans et al.

Her title to the succession is as heir at law of the children,
and heirs of John Poultney, of whom she was the mother.
In May, 1818, John Poultney, a merchant of New Orleans,
purchased of Mad. Rousseau, her plantation lying on the lississippi River, a short distance above New Orleans, and which is
now included within the corporate limits.
The price agreed to was $100,000, one fifth of which was
paid at the time, and notes with the indorsement of Harrod and
Ogdens, (a firm composed of Charles Harrod, Peter V. Ogden,
and George M. Ogden,) payable in five annual instalments, and
secured by a mortgage on the property, were given for the
remainder. The mortgage contains a stipulation that, in the
event the indorsers should pay either of the notes, they should
be subrogated to the rights of the vendor and holder of the
mortgage for indemnity. In April, 1819, Poultney acknowledged in a petition to the first district court that his affairs were
embarrassed, and that he could not meet his engagements; he
made a statement of his property and debts, showing a surplus
in his favor, and prayed the court to convene his creditors that
they might deliberate upon his proposition for a respite of one,
two, and three years.
The court made the order, the creditors were convened, the
requisite number agreed to the proposition, and an order was
accordingly entered the 28th June, 1819, for a respite of one,
two, and three years.
Harrod and Ogdens appeared at this meeting,-- claimed to have
paid the first instalment on the purchase of the Rousseau plantation, and assented to the action of the creditors, reserving their
mortgage security.
In October, 1819, John Poultney died. His widow, the
plaintiff's testatrix, in January thereafter renounced her right as
partner in community, and failed to qualify as tutrix of her two
children, one aged five, and the other seven years, who were the
heirs at law of John Poultney, and did not until eight years after
the sales referred to, take any concern about the succession.
The representation made by John Poultney of his affairs at
the time his petition for a respite was exhibited, implies a hopeless state of insolvency. His debts are acknowledged to be
$235,000, while his property is rated at $266,000,-but from its
nature affording but little prospect that such an amount could
be realized. By the renunciation of his widow of her title as
partner in community, and her failure to interpose on behalf of
her children, the succession was unrepresented, and was what is
termed in the Louisiana code a vacant estate. In February,
1820, a portion of the creditors of Poultney informed the district
court that this succession was insolvent, -had no representative,

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

499

Beauregard, &c. v. The City of New Orleans et al.

nor claimant -and prayed that measures might be taken for the
appointment of a syndic to represent and administer it for the
benefit of all concerned. A meeting of the creditors was ordered
by the court - and took place - resulting in the appointment of
three syndics, (one of whom was Peter V. Ogden,) who were
recognized by the court. On the 9th of May, 1820, Harrod and
Ogden represented in a petition to the district court the facts
of the purchase by Poultney of the Rousseau plantation, their
payment of the first instalment of the purchase-money, and their
liability to pay another then shortly after to become due; that
the succession of Poultney was insolvent, and was in the hands
of syndics; and prayed that the plantation might be seized and
sold for the satisfaction of their debt and the instalments yet
unpaid on the mortgage, and for a citation to the syndics. The
usual order of seizure was -made by the district judge, and a
citation was served on one of the syndics. On the 29th May
the syndics agreed in court to the terms of sale and waived the
appraisement, and the property was sold on the 13th June by
the sheriff on the writ of seizure for the payment of the money
then due, the purchaser agreeing to assume the mortgage.
At this sale, George M. Ogden, one of the firm of Harrod and
Ogden, was the purchaser, and a deed was subsequently
executed to him by the sheriff under the order of the court.
Some time after the close of these transactions, a conviction
seems to have been impressed on the minds of Harrod and Ogden
that the proceedings in the district court were inoperative; and
in 1824, Harrod and the representative of Ogden commenced
a suit in the court of probate, having for its object to obtain a
satisfaction of the same debt, by the sale of the same property.
They sought a seizure and sale of the property, without taking
any notice of what had been done in the district court, and
prayed a citation to Mad. Poultney as tutrix of her children.
No citation appears in the record, but there is evidence of a
seizure, judgment, and sale.
The purchasers were Charles Harrod and Francis B. Ogden,
who are charged to be the representatives of the first purchaser,
G. I. Ogden. These purchasers afterwards, in 1824, represented to the district court that the debt to Mad. Rousseau had
been paid, and that the mortgage of George M. Ogden, given,
in 1820, to secure the unpaid instalments, was not operative,
for that the district court had no jurisdiction to make the sale,
and asked that it might be raised from the property. The
sheriff admitted all the facts, and the court granted the petition.
These were the last proceedings which had any relation to
the case.
The defendants, by plea and answer, affirm that these pro-

500

SUPREME COURT.
Beauregard, &c. v. The City of New Orleans et al.

ceedings were conformable to law, and vested the purchasers
with all the title which John Poultney ever acquired in the property, and that the plaintiff never had any right therein; that
they had no participation in, nor knowledge of, any fraud, but
that they have translative titles from these purchasers, and rely
upon their sufficiency.
In 1832, Mad. Poultney assumed the office of tutrix of her
minor children, and commenced, immediately after, suits in the
state courts of Louisiana for the recovery of portions of'this
plantation. Three of these suits were decided in the supreme
court in 1885, after elaborate and learned arguments, and a
patient investigation by the court. Poultney's Heirs v. Cecil,
8th La. R. 822; v. Ogden, 8 La. 428; v. Barrett, 8 La. 441.
These decisions were made upon a state of facts similar to that
presented in this record;. and the discussion in those cases has
diminished the care and responsibility of this court. For it is
apparent that the questions presented to us relate exclusively to
the local jurisprudence of Louisiana. When the controversy
arose all the parties were citizens of that State, while the subject
of the suit is the validity of titles passed under decrees of its
courts, and in the course of duty, by their executive officers.
The material inquiries are, whether the first district court had
a jurisdiction competent to the legal transfer of the succession
of a debtor, who was enjoying a respite from the claims of his
creditors for an unexpired term, at the time of his death and
before any default had arisen in the fulfilment of the conditions
of the respite as to payment. 2. Whether this jurisdiction
could be exerted without any citation to the natural heirs, or
any measures taken to secure their interests in the succession?
3. Were the modes prescribed for the disposal of the estates of
insolvent debtors, or of minors, essential constituents of a valid
exercise of the jurisdiction, and for the neglect of these may the
sale be collaterally attacked? 4. Did the death of Poultney
determine the jurisdiction of the district court, and remove to
the court of probate the administration and settlement of the
succession, and were all the proceedings in the district court
coram non judice ? 5. Was a citation to the heirs necessary to
a valid decree of sale in the court of probate ? An important
share of the attention of all courts of a limited jurisdiction is
engrossed in ascertaining the causes over which they may legitimately claim cognizance, and the administration of an involved
or insolvent succession, from the number of the parties in
interest, and the variety of conflicting and complicated claims
that are oftentimes exhibited, frequently affords difficult questions of this description.
The supreme court of Louisiana treat the questions arising

DECEMBER

TERM,

1855.

501

Beauregard, &c. v. The City of New Orleans et al.

upon the records now before us, as difficult and embarrassing,
calling for undivided and anxious attention, and much care was
employed in deciding them, so as to maintain in that State an
accordant system of jurisprudence. The claim of an embarrassed
debtor to exhibit the condition of his affairs to a court with a
view to obtain its assistance to convoke his creditors, that they

may deliberate upon a proposition to grant him a delay or
respite, and to bind the minority to the conclusions of a consenting .majority, is one which has no recognition in the common
law. It was derived in Louisiana from the continental codes of
Europe, upon which the legal institutions of that State are
founded. The supreme court of Louisiana, upon an investigation of those codes, determined that the death of Poultney in a
stater of insolvency, without heirs who were willing to accept his
succession unconditionally, and thereby to afford security for the
fulfilment of the conditions of the decree of respite which the
debtor had assumed, relieved his creditors from their obligations
to respect it, and empowered them to proceed, in rem, against
the estate of their debtor in the hands of a syndic.
The same tribunal, (supreme court of Louisiana,) after tracing
the sources of the jurisdiction of the district court, extending, as
it did, to "1all civil cases," determined that it was not without
jurisdiction ratione materica of a suit against such an estate, and
that judgments rendered in that court were not radically null.
They say, "The undisputed exercise of such a jurisdiction for a
long series of years, the general acquiescence of the legal pror
fession, the universal understanding among the people, as well
as the courts and bar, form together such contemporaneous
interpretations of the laws relating to conflicting jurisdictions,
that, however doubtful it may appear on a close analysis, it cannot now be disturbed without the greatest injustice, and inflicting incalculable mischiefs on the country." And in Robinett v.
Compton, 2 Ann, R. 847, 855, the same court says, " That, previous
to the passage of the act of the 18th March, 1820, fixing the
jurisdiction of the courts of probate in this State, it seems to
have been settled by various decisions of this court that the district courts were not deprived of jurisdiction ratione materia in
such cases. The practice was universal to bring suits against
successions in the district court, and we are not prepared to say
it was erroneous." And, since the act of 1820, (which, however,
was not promulgated so as to be in force when this sale was
made,) the court say, "that 6uch judgments in that court might
be erroneous, but were not mere nullities." The jurisdiction of
the district court to render the judgment being admitted, the
further question arises, Was the jurisdicti-ti so exercised as to be
operative ? The supreme court, in the case of Cecil above cited,

502

SUPREME COURT.
Beauregard, &c. v. The City of New Orleans et al.

determine "1that the rules which apply to the sale of minors' property as such, when the title is fully vested in them, are not
strictly applicable to a case like the present, where the rights of
minors were contingent and residuary, subject to the undoubted
claims of creditors deducto cre alieno, and who, in this very
case, appear as beneficiary heirs claiming property already
alienated for the payment of debts," &c. And in McCullough
v. Minor, 2 Ann, 466, the same court affirm "that in cases like
this, the purchaser is not bound to look beyond the decree."
The jurisdiction of the court was undoubted, and the jurisprudence of the State has long since been settled that a bonrfide
purchaser at a judicial sale is protected by the decree. 11 Louisa.
68; 13 Louisa. 432; 16 Louisa. 440; 3 Rob. 122. The judgments of the supreme court of Louisiana upon the validity of
the sales impugned in this bill were given more than twenty
years ago. They have formed the foundation upon which the
expectations and conduct of the inhabitants of that State have
been regulated. They have quieted apprehensions and doubts
respecting a title to an important portion of a large and growing
city. They have invited a multitude of transactions and engagements in which the well-being of hundreds, perhaps thousands, of the citizens of that State depend. In this bill there are
several hundreds of defendants.
The constitution of this court requires it to follow the laws of
the several States as rules of decision wherever they properly
apply. And the habit of the court has been to defer to the decisions of their judicial tribunals upon questions arising out of
the common law of the State, especially when applied to the
title of lands.
No other course could be adopted with any regard to propriety.
Upon cases like the present the relation of the courts of the
United States to a State is the same as that of its own tribunals.
They administer the laws of the State, and to fulfil that duty,
they must find them as they exist in the habits of the people,
and in the exposition of their constituted authorities. Without
this, the peculiar organization of the judicial tribunals of the
States and the Union would be productive of the greatest mischief and confusion. Jackson v. Chew, 12 Wheat. 153.
But, if we were required to depart from that jurisprudence to
find a solution of these difficult and embarrassing questions, we
should not have to leave the precedents afforded by this court
for the support of many of their conclusions. This court has
contributed its share to that stability which results from a respect for things adjudicated : Status reipublice? maxim judicatis
rebus cantinetur." It is the settled doctrine of the court, that
when the proceedings of a court of justice are collaterally drawn

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

503

The Union Bank of Tennessee v. Jolly's Adm'rs.

in question, and it appears upon the face of them that the subject-matter was within its jurisdiction, they cannot be impeached
for error or irregularity; that, if a court has jurisdiction, its decision upon all the questions that arise regularly in the cause
are binding upon all other courts until they are reversed. 2 Pet.
157; 1 Ib. 340. And when the object is to sell the real estate
of an insolvent or embarrassed succession, the settled doctrine is,
there are no adversary parties,- the proceeding is in rem,-the
administrator represents the land. They are analogous to proceedings in admiralty, where the only question of jurisdiction
is the power of the court over the thing, - the subject-matter before them, - without regard to the parties who may have an,
interest in it. All the. world are parties. In the orphans' court,
and all the courts which have power to sell the estates of decedents, their action operates on the estate, not on the heirs of the
intestate. A purchaser claims not their title, but one paramount. The estate passes by operation of law. 2 How. 819;
11 S. & R. 426; 6 Port. 219, 249.
The identity of the principles applied by the supreme court of
Louisiana, in ascertaining the effect of the judgments of their
courts, and those accepted as true by this court, leaves no question resting upon the authority of the State tribunals, except that
of the nature and extent of the jurisdiction of their courts under
the organic law of the State. And no principle would authorize
this court to dissent from their conclusions on that subject, when
the land disposed of was within their borders, and the parties in
interest were citizens belonging to their community.
Our opinion is, that the pleas of the defendants afford a complete answer to the bill; and that the decree of the circuit court
must be affirmed.

THE

PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS, AND OOMPANY OF THE UNION
B3ANK OF TENNESSEE, APPELLANTS, V. MICAJAH J. VAIDEN

AND JoHN H.

KEITH, ADMINISTRATORS

OF WILLIAM JOLLY,

DECEASED.
Where a suit was brought in the United States court by citizens of another State
against a citizen of Mississippi, who appeared to the suit, pleaded and then died,
after which the suit was revived against his administrators, and judgment obtained
against them, the following proceedings of the probate court afford no bar to the
recovery of the claim :
I A declaration by the probate court that the estate was insolvent, and a reference
of the matter to a .. ,nhmissioner in insolvency
2 A publication notifying the creditors of the estate to appear and file their claims,
or be forever barred of their demands.
3. A report by the commissioner, leaving out the claim in question, wh'ch report
was confirmed by the cuurt.
- - 4,

