DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

413

Greely's Administrator v. Burgess et al.

boundary in this instance is too manifest, in our opinion, to require discussion to show that a public survey is required to attach
the concession to any land.

JAMES C. CONVERSE, ADMINISTRATOR OF PHILIP GREELY, DECEASED, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. BENJAMIN BURGESS, NATHAN
B. GIBBS, AND B ENJAmIN T. BURGESS, COPARTNERS, UNDER THE
FIRB OF BENJAMIN BURGESS AND SON.
Where merchant appraisers were appointed, under the tariff acts of 1842 and 1846,
to review the decision of the public appraisers, it was a question of fact for the
jury to decide, whether the examination of samples drawn, some weeks before their
appraisement, was a substantial compliance with the law which required them to
examine one package, at least, of every ten packages of goods, wares, and merchandise.
Being a question of fact for the jury, evidence was admissible tending to show that
they had not complied with the law.
The protest being "that the goods were not fairly and faithfully examined by the appraisers" was a sufficient notice of the grounds upon which the importers contended
that the appraisement was unlawful. It was not necessary to set forth, specifically,
the reasons upon which the charge was founded.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court. It
is, only necessary to add the protest and evidence offered as they
were stated in the bill of exceptions, namely: "I this day pay to Philip Greely, jr., collector of this port, on
behalf of Messrs. B. Burgess and Sons, the sum of sixteen hundred forty-three dollars and -,%,more or less, claimed by him as
due to the United States from them, on merchandise imported
by them in the brig Eliza Burgess, under protest, with the intention of reclaiming the same or any part thereof, as may be found
to have been illegally paid by them. Said sum is claimed by
advance of value on the merchandise by the appraisers, thereby
increasing the duties and assessing a penalty, - all of which we
protest against on the ground of fair valuation in the invoice,
and that the goods were not fairly and faithfully examined by
the appraisers.
"N. B. GIBBS."
The plaintiffs further offered to prove, under said protest, that
the merchant appraisers did not examine or see any of the original packages of the merchandise in question, and only saw samples which had been taken on the 26th of April, 1850, from one
in ten of the packages described in the invoice, and that such
35*

414

SUPREME COURT.
Greely's Administrator v. Burgess et al.

samples, so drawn and exposed to the air, would not afford a fair
criterion by which to judge of the importation, and claimed the
right to go behind the return of the said merchant appraisers,
on the ground that they had not examined the sugars, as required by law, and to put it as a question of fact to the jury
without alleging fraud.
The defendant objected to the admission of such evidence to
go to the jury in the absence of fraud on the part of the appraisers, and claimed that their decision was in the nature of an
award, and final under the statute, and not open under this protest. But this court ruled that the evidence was admissible, and
that the plaintiffs might go to the jury on the facts, whether the
examination made by the merchant appraisers was, in substance
and effect, equivalent to an examination of one package in ten
of the importation, and if it was not, that the appraisement was
void. Whereupon the counsel for the defendant did then and
there except to the said rulings of the court, and thereupon the
jury returned a verdict for the plaintiffs for $ 2,127.68.
The case was submitted, on printed arguments, by llr. Cushng, (attorney-general,) for the plaintiff in error, and AIr. Andros,
for the defendants.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The intestate of the plaintiff is charged in this judgment for
an excess of duties collected by him in his capacity of collector
of customs at the port of Boston, under color of a law of the
United States.
The defendants in April, 1850, imported into Boston an invoice of sugars from the Island of Cuba, and made entry as in
case of goods purchased, by the production of the invoice and
an oath that it exhibited a just and faithful account of the
actual cost and all charges thereon, &c. The public appraisers
advanced the valuation of the merchandise contained in the
invoice ten per cent above the invoice price, and made their
return to the collector accordingly, the 14th May, 1850. From
this valuation the defendants appealed, and merchant appraisers
were appointed to make a new appraisement. These returned
their report the 4th June, to the effect that the sugars could not
have been purchased at the time of exportation for less than
the sum assessed by the appraisers, at the principal markets of
Cuba.
Duties were levied according to this appraisement, and also
an additional duty of 20 per cent under the 8th section of the
act of 30th July, 1846. These duties were paid 4th June, 1850,
under a protest, by the defendants, with the declared "intention

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

415

Greely's Administrator v. Burgess et al.

of reclaiming the same or any part thereof as may be found to
have been illegally paid by them" ; and affirm as the ground of
their protest the "fair valuation in the invoice, and that the goods
were not fairly and faithfully examined by the appraisers."
Upon the trial of the cause the importers (defendants) offered
to prove that the merchant appraisers did not examine nor see
any of the original packages of the merchandise in question, but
only saw samples which had been taken on the 26th April, 1850,
from one in ten of the packages described in the invoice; and
that such samples so drawn and exposed to the air would not
afford a true criterion by which to judge of the importation; and
claimed the right to go behind the return of the said merchant
appraisers, on the ground that they had not examined the sugars
as required by law, and to put that as a question of fact to the
jury, without alleging fraud.
The collector (plaintiff's intestate) objected to this evidence,
and claimed that the decision of the appraisers was in the nature
of an award, and final under the statute, and not open under this
protest, in the absence of fraud, to review.
The circuit court admitted this evidence, and decided that the
importers (defendants) might go to the jury on the facts, whether
the examination made by the merchant appraisers was in substance and effect equivalent to an examination of one package
in ten of the importation, and if it was not, that the appraisement was void.
A verdict and judgment were rendered in favor of the importers, and these decisions of the circuit court have been assigned for error in this court.
The right of an importer, who has paid money, under a valid
protest, to a collector of the customs, for duties illegally assessed,
to maintain an action for its return has been acknowledged by
congress and in this court. 5 Stats. at Large, 727, c. 22; Greely
v. Thompson, 10 How. 225. The only inquiries in such an
action are, whether the duties have been legally charged, and
does the protest conform to the act of congress above cited ?
The ascertainment of the value of imports, upon which the assessment of duties is made, is confided in the first instance to
officers of the government, and, in the case of dissatisfaction of
the importer with their assessment, to discreet and experienced
merchants familiar with the character and value of the goods
in question, whose decision is final, provided it is made in pursuance of law.
They are required by all reasonable ways or means in their
power to ascertain, estimate, and appraise "the true and actual
market value and wholesale price of the import," at the time
and place or places specified in the statutes, 1"any invoice or

416

SUPREME COURT.
Greely's Administrator v. Burgess et al.

affidavit thereto to the contrary notwithstanding"; they are
authorized "to call before them and examine upon oath or
affirmation any owner, importer, consignee, or other person,
touching any matter or thing they may deem material in ascertaining the true market value or wholesale price of any merchandise imported, and to require the production, on oath or affirmation, of any letters, accounts, or invoices in his possession relating
to the same." It is the duty of the collector to designate on the
invoice at least one package of every invoice, and one package at
least of every ten packages of goods, wares, and merchandise, and
a greater number, should he, or either of the appraisers, deem it
necessary, to be opened, examined, and appraised, and shall order
the package or packages so designated to the public stores for
examination. 5 Stats. at Large, 563-565, §§ 16, 17, 21. The
appraisers take an oath diligently and faithfully to examine and
inspect such goods, wares, and merchandise as the collector may
direct, and truly to report, to the best of their knowledge and
belief, the true value thereof. 3 Stats. at Large, 735, § 16.
These acts of congress provide for the appointment, regulate the
duties, and impose the limitations on the authority of the appraisers, and determine the conditions on which the validity of their
assessment depends. All their powers are derived from these
acts, and it is their duty to observe the restrictions, and to obey
the directions they contain. In the present instance, there was a
neglect of the positive mandate "to open, examine, and appraise
one package of every invoice, and one package, at least, of every
ten packages of goods, wares, and merchandise"; and the jury
have found, that the inquiry they made was not, in substance nor
in effect, an equivalent for such an examination.
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the importer was not precluded by their return from disputing the sufficiency or accuracy
of their assessment. But to enable the importer to do this, he
must, before making payment of the duties, enter "a protest," in
writing, signed by him, setting forth, "distinctly and specifically,
the grounds of objection" to the payment of the duties. In the
present instance there was a protest, to which there is no objection, except that its statement was not sufficiently distinct
and specific. The ground of objection stated in the protest is,
"that the goods were not fairly and faithfully examined by the
appraisers."
And the proof offered was, that the appraisers did not examine
nor see any of the original packages of the merchandise, and
only saw samples which had been taken several weeks before, and
which would not afford a true criterion by which to judge of the
importation.
This statute was designed for practical use by men engaged

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

417

Greely's Administrator v. Burgess et al.

in active commercial pursuits, and was intended to superinduce
a prompt and amicable settlement of differences between the
government and the importer. The officers of the government
on the one part, and the importer or his agent on the other, are
brought into communication and intercourse by the act of entry
of the import, and opportunities for explanation easily occur for
every difference that may arise. We are not, therefore, disposed
to exact any nice precision, nor to apply any strict rule of construction upon the notices required under this statute. It is
sufficient if the importer indicates distinctly and definitely the
source of his complaint, and his design to make it the foundation for a claim against the government.
In the present instance, he asserts that the goods were not
fairly and faithfully examined by the appraisers. This, we think,
was sufficient, without disclosing the grounds upon which he
contended that the appraisement was unfair or unfaithful.
In Jones v. Bird, 5 B. & A. 837, which arose under a local act
of parliament relating to the commissioners of sewers for Westminster, which provides that no plaintiff should recover in any
action for anything done undbr certain acts of parliament, unless
notice was given to the defendants, specifying the cause of
action, Chief Justice Abbott said: "I think the notice sufficient,
and that it ought not to be construed with great strictness, its
object being merely to inform the defendant substantially of the
ground of the complaint, but not of the mode or manner in
which the injury has been sustained." And Justice Bayley said:
"A notice of this sort does not require the same precision as a
declaration. It is quite sufficient if it calls the attention of the
defendants to the general nature of the injury, so that they may
go to the premises and see what the ground of complaint is."
Under the act of 24 George I. c. 44, which required a notice
to justices of the peace which should contain, " clearly and
explicitly, the course of action which the party hath, or claimeth
to have," the court of exchequer held a notice sufficient, although
it was in the form of a declaration, and comprised not only the
specific complaint, but all the redundancy and general averments
which the experience of pleaders has led them to introduce into
that description of pleadings, "for it could not have misled nor
imposed any difficulty on the defendants, as to the tender of the
amends they might have thought fit to make, and is, therefore,
sufficient." Gimbert v. Coyney, McClelland & Y. 469.
These authorities disclose a sound principle of interpretation
in regard to such notices, and support the principle we have
announced in respect to that under consideration.
Upon the whole case, we think there is no error in the record,
and judgment is affirmed.

418

SUPREME COURT.
. Stockton v. Ford.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice DANIEL, and Mr.
Justice NELSON dissented.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY. I dissent from the opinion of the
court, being of opinion that the grounds of objection are not
"distinctly and specifically" set forth in the protest, within the
meaning of the act of Congress, and that the protest did not
apprise the collector of the particular objection taken at the
trial, and which could easily have been removed by another
appraisement if it had been brought to the notice of the collector
in the pootest.
Mr. Justice DANIEL and Mr. Justice NELSON concurred
with the Chief Justice.

RICHARD C. STOCKTON, APPELLANT, v. JAMES C. FORD.
In the case of Stockton v. Ford, reported in 11 Howard, 232, this court decided the
following propositions, namely: 'rWhere there was a judgment which had been recorded under the laws of.Louisiana
and thus made equivalent to a mortgage upon the property of the debtor, and the
plaintiff assigned this judgment, and was then himself sued and had an execution
issued against him, his rights under this recorded judgment could not be sold under
this execution, because he had previously transferred all those rights.
The attorney who had recovered the judgment which was thus recovered and assigned, and who stood as attorney to the assignee, was not at liberty to purchase it
at the sale on execution, for his own benefit. The purchase enured to the benefit
of the client."
'And in the report of the case it is stated at page 234, that the assignment was made,
inter alia, to cover the attorney's fees and other costs.
The court now decides,
1. That the present plaintiff being the same, the validity of the assignment, as to him,
was decided in the former case.
2. The question, under the assignment, for attorney's fees was necessarily involved,
and should have been made in the former trial. The former suit, therefore, constitutes a bar to the present.
3. The evidence now shows that no censure could be properly attributed to the attorney for his share in the transaction.

Tins was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the eastern district of Louisiana.
A full history of the transactions which led to the dispute is
given in the report of the case of Stockton v. Ford, 11 How.
232.
It was submitted, on printed arguments, by M2r. Stockton and
Mr.Johnson, for appellant, and by MAfr. Duncan, for appellee.
The arguments were so connected with the facts of the case,
that it is impossible to give the points by themselves.

