DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

165

Little et al. v. Hall et al.

On every view of the case, we are of opinion that the title of
the purchaser is protected by the established rules of law, and
that there was no error in the instructions given to the jury by
the court below.
The judgment of the circuit court is therefore affirmed.

EDWIN C. LITTLE AND OLIVER SCOVILL, APPELLANTS, v. LEvi
W. H LL, ANTHONY GOULD, DAVID BANKS, WIIMA GOULD,
AND DAVID BANKS, JR.
On the 27th of December, 1847, George F. Comstock was appointed state reporter,
under a statute of the State of New York, which office he held until the 27th of
December, 1851.
During his term of office, viz. in 1850, he, in conjunction with the comptroller and
secretary of the State, acting under the authority of a statute, made an agreement
with certain persons, that for five years to come they should have the publication
of the decisions of the court of appeals and the exclusive benefit of the copyright.
At the expiration of Mr. Comstock's term, viz. on the 27th of December, 1851, he
had in his possession sundry manuscript notes, and the decisions made at the ensuing January term were also placed in his hands to be reported. Out of these
materials he made a volume, and sold it upon his own private account.
Whatever remedy the first assignees may have had against 31r. Comstock individually,
they are not to be considered as the legal owners of the manuscript, under the copyright act of congress, and are not entitled to an injunction to prevent the publication
and sale of the volume.

Tins was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the northern district of New York.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by fr. Seward, for the plaintiffs in error, and
Mr. Haven, for the defendants.
31r. Seward made the following points :
1. Comstock, by accepting the office of state reporter, and acting under it, and by uniting with the secretary of state and
comptroller in the contract with the appellants of April 20, 1850,
must be deemed to have accepted the terms and conditions of
the act of April 11, 1848, and of ipril 9, 1850. And those
statutes operated, by reason of such acquiescence on his part, to
vest in the State of New York all the interest and right which
he might have, as author, in any reports of decisions of the court
of appeals which should be prepared by him as reporter; and
the State became the absolute owner thereof.
2. By the contract made by tie state reporter, the secretary
of state, and the comptroller, on behalf of the State, with the
appellants, the interest of the State in all matter constituting
the reports to be made by Comstock, as reporter, was equitably

166

SUPREME COURT.
Little et al. v. Hall et al.

and legally vested in the appellants, for the purpose of being
published exclusively by them during the term specified in the
contract.
3. The appellants, by the operation of the contract, and of the
laws of the State in pursuance of which it was made, became
the legal assignees and proprietors of the manuscript matter prepared by =omstock as state reporter, under the ninth section of
the law of congress of 1831, which right was exclusive of all
others during the continuance of the contract. The exclusive
copyright was the exclusive right to publish the manuscripts.
This proposition is a legal deduction from the two former
propositions already established.
4. Volume 4 of Comstock's Reports was covered by the contract, as to all the matter that it contained, and so was subject to
the exclusive right of the appellants to the manuscript matter
prepared by the reporter, and incorporated into the work.
- The expiration of Comstock's term of office did not alter his
liability in this respect. True, he could not be required to prepare the decisions for publication, and to furnish notes and
references ; but,
1. If he did not do this, he must hold the materials subject
to the order of his successor, who must do the labor ; or, if he
did use them, and prepare them for publication with notes and
references, then the materials and additional matter, being incorporated together, and so prepared according to the contract, must
pass, under the contract, to the appellants.
Had Comstock died during his term of office, the trust and
bailment would have remained attached to the materials in the
hands of his executors. A trust would have resulted to the
State a right of action, legal or equitable, to the appellants,
when the purpose for which he received the materials failed to
take effect. (2 Fonblanque, 118.)
It is wholly unimportant that Comstock might, either while
in office, or after going out of office, have acquired similar materials by other means.
1st. As he would in that case have used similar materials, as
the basis for labor to be performed for the appellants under the
contract, and as he had received an equivalent in advance for
that labor, either the labor must be done for their benefit or not
at all.
2d. But in point of fact, he received these specified materials
as a trustee and bailee, and be must be held to the obligations
they created.
These are principles so familiar, and they so fully pervade
every branch of jurisprudence, equally the law and equity, that
references to authorities would seem superflous. But for con-

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.
Little et al. v. Hall et al.

venience, refer. to Hill on Trustees, 172, 282; 509, 2 Vesey, 498;
Taylor v. Plumer, 3 Maule & Selwyn, 562, 567, 574; Adair v.
Shew, 1 Schoale & Lefroy, 262; Story on Equity Jurisprudence, § 533, &c., 1,257, 1,258, 1,261; Kane v. Bloodgood, 7
Johnson's Ch. Reports, 110, where it is held that every deposit
is a trust, and that every person who receives money to be paid
to another, or to be applied to a particular purpose to which he
does not apply it, is a trustee. So the principle adopted in tle
case of a tenant, that he cannot deny the title of his landlord so
long as he retains possession, but must surrender the premises,
and place himself in hostility to his landlord, before he can set
up a title in himself, is founded on the very contract of tenancy
itself. (Nelson, Ch. J. ; Phelan and wife v. Kelly, 25 Wend.
392. See also Massey v. Davis, 2 Vesey, Jr., 818, 320 ; East
India Co. v. Hinchman, I. Vesey, Jr., 289.)
5. It is in evidence, that Mr. Comstock has commenced, and
still has pending, an action to establish his right to the office of
state reporter, at this time. This claim of continuance in office
is utterly inconsistent with the position of individual and
private right, action, and interest, in regard to volume 4, set up
by the respondents, and is conclusive against him and them,
that volume 4 was prepared by him as state reporter, and subject to the operation of the contract, Exhibit A. - (Lord Chancellor, in 2 Vesey, Jr., 696; 1 Swanston, Note (a) to p. 381;
Comyn's Digest, Election, C. I.)
Comstock has made his election to claim and hold the office
of state reporter, with full knowledge of his rights, and he is
bound by it.
6. There is no proof of any acquiescence by the appellants in
the claim of Mr. Comstock, by which he was misled or induced
to incur expense.
.Mr. iaven, for defendants in error, made the following
points: -

1. There" is no question of copyright or of property in manuscripts involved in the case, and the plaintiffs' claim does not
fall within the provisions of any of the acts of congress, and
this is fatal to the plaintiffs' case.
I. The laws of the United States afford remedies, and the
federal courts have jurisdiction only in favor of the "author" of
a book or "his legal assigns," or the "author or legal proprietor"
of a manuscript. Of course, a book or manuscript belongs primarily under the copyright laws to the author. The -plaintiffs
not being the " author," must therefore deduce from him a
"legal " right and title to the book or manuscript, or else they
cannot sustain their bill in the federal courts. If they can allege

SUPREME

COURT.

Little et al. v. Hall et al.

any other rights which have been violated, these must be asserted in the state courts, and on some general principle of
equity or of law. See the opinion of the circuit court, which
proceeds very much on this ground. See also laws of the United
States, 2 sess. 21 Cong. 1831, p. 11, §§ 1, 9; 2 Kent, Comm. (6th
ed.) 379. Clark v. Price, 2 Wilson, Ch. R. 157. Jollie v. Jaques,
1 Blatch. 618, 627.
II. But the strongest manner in which the plaintiffs can state
their case is to allege that the notes, references, and manuscript
matter composed by Mr. Comstock, and contained in the book
in question, fall within the purview of their contract for the
publication of the State Reports to be composed by the state
reporter. We say the strongest, because this assumes the precise fact controverted, to wit, that Mr. Comstock's labors upon
this book were official and not private. It is not jretended of
course that the plaintiffs, under their contract with the state
officers, could have any interest in the labors of Mr. C., or any
one else as a private reporter.
III. Assuming then this, the best statement of the plaintiffs'
case, to be true, it only follows that the contract with the plaintiffs has been violated, affording perhaps a just ground of action
or claim again.st the State of New York., or its agents who made
the contract. But it by no means follows that the plaintiffs
have the "1legal" title to, or are "the legal proprietors" of the
book or of the manuscript in question. At the time of the contract, no part of the work was composed. The agreement,
therefore, was simply exedutory, and could vest no title or actual
property in that which had no existence.
2. But the case is not such as has been thus far assumed. In
fact, Mr. Comstock was not in the service of the State. He
was a private citizen, and another person held the office of state
reporter, and received the salary annexed thereto. In fact, also,
Mr. Comstock, at no period of his labors on this book, pretended
to be acting for the State, or the plaintiffs. Being a private citizen, in fact, before he began, lie distinctly announced that lie
should not prepare the work for the State or the plaintiffs, but
should do it in his private character, and would sell it as his own
property. After he began, he employed the stereotype printer
on his private account. Still later, he invited proposals to buy
the work as his own, and, among others, invited the plaintiffs;
and finally he sold it as his own, thus maintaining from the beginning to the end an open consistency of conduct, a course of
conduct at the time called in question by no one, not even the
plaintiffs, who now seek to appropriate the result of his labors
as their property.
8. What has been thus far said, it is believed, shows that the

DECEMBER TERM, 18,55.

169

Little et al. v. Hall et al.

plaintiffs, in the most favorable views which can be taken of their
case, have no such title as will sustain their bill, nor indeed any
title at all, whatever may be said of the defendants, their position, and that of their vendor, Mr. Comstock. We shall now
speak of them and of him, especially of his position and relations to the subject, placing -the facts and circumstances of the
case in the light in which we regard them, and demonstrating,
if we can, that, upon every principle of law and justice, the copyright of the book in question is with the defendants.
4. The complainants are equitably estopped from claiming the
relief asked for in their bill.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the circuit court of the
United States for the northern district of New York.
A want of jurisdiction to sustain this appeal was alleged by
counsel, as it does not appear from the record that the amount
in controversy exceeds the sum of two thousand dollars; but
this objection was obviated by an affidavit, which stated that the
amount claimed by the plaintiffs exceeds that sum.
This bill was filed under the copyright act, to enjoin the defendants from publishing and selling the fourth volume of Coinstock's Reports.
The plaintiffs, who are publishers and booksellers at Albany,
New York, represent that, on the 20th of April, 1850, they entered into an agreement with Washington Hunt, comptroller,
Christopher Morgan, secretary, and George F. Comstock, reporter, of the State of New York, as required by statute, that
they should have the publication, for the term of five years, of
the decisions of the court of appeals, and the exclusive benefit
of the copyright, to be taken out in behalf of the State, of the
notes and references, and other matter furnished by the reporter,
connected with said decisions; and that instrument was declared
to be an assignment and transfer of the copyright of the matter
so published, which should consist of volumes of not less than
five hundred pages each.
On the 27th of December, 1847, George F. Comstock was
appointed state reporter for three years, and until his successor
was appointed and qualified, at a salary of $ 2,000 per annum.
He was to have, under the law, no interest in the reports, but
the copyright of his notes, references, and abstracts of arguments,
was to be taken in the name of the secretary of state, for the benefit of the people of New York. The law forbade the reporter
and all other persons from acquiring a copyright in the reports,
but declared they might be republished by any person.
Mr. Comstock's term of office expired on the 27th of DecemVOL. XVIII.

15

170

SUPREME COURT.
Little et al. v. Hall et al.

ber, 1850, and his successor, Henry R. Selden, Esq., was appointed to succeed him on the 17th of January, 1851. Mr. Cornstock questioned the validity of his appointment, and the matter
was referred to the judges of the court of appeals, then in session at Albany, who decided that Mr. Selden was duly appointed.
He took the oath on the 21st of January, 1851, and immediately
entered upon the duties of his office.
Mr. Comstock published three 'volumes of his reports; and
having in his hands, at the expiration of his office, opinions of
the court to make half or more of another volume, on the suggestion of the ju~dges, and with the consent of ir. Selden, the
opinions of the January term were delivered to him, that he
might complete his fourth volume. At the time of this arrangement, he had made no preparation, by notes, &c., for this volume, and did not commence the work until some months afterwards.
After he had made considerable advance in the preparation of
this volume, he invited proposals for the purchase of the copyright; and although the plaintiffs, in conversation with him, said
they would give as much as any other persons; yet they made
no proposal, as they were apprehensive it might affect the contract for the publication of the reports, as above stated. The
defendants purchased the copyright, for which they paid $ 2,500.
At a large expense, they prepared stereotypes for the work, and
printed it.
The plaintiffs, so soon as the volume was published, commenced a republication of it, and filed this bill to enjoin the defendants from selling their edition. Previous to the publication
of the third volume of Comstock's Reports, the secretary of state
had the copyright of the head-notes, references, &c., entered by
the clerk of the district court of the United States, for the benefit of the State ; and the complainants had a similar entry
made, to secure the copyright to the State, of the fourth volume.
This was not done by the secretary of state, as the law directed,
and it seems it was not sanctioned by him, as he was doubtful
whether he had the power to do so.
The 9th section of the copyright act of the 3d of February,
1831, provides "that any one who shall print or publish any
manuscript whatever without the consent of the author or legal
proprietor first obtained as aforesaid," "shall be liable to suffer
and pay to the author or proprietor all damages occasioned by
such'injury," &c.
At common law, an author has a right to his unpublished
manuscripts the same as to any other property he may possess,
and this statute gives him a remedy by injunction to protect this

right.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

171

Little et al. v. Hall et al.

A formal transfer of a copyright by the supplementary-act of
the 30th of June, 1834, is required to be proved and recorded as
deeds for the conveyance of land, and such record operates as
notice.
After the expiration of his official term, Comstock did not and
could not act as reporter. His successor, having been appointed
and qualified, discharged the duties of the office 9nd received
the salary. As many of the opinions of the court were in the
hands of Comstock when his office expired, it might have been
made a question whether he could not publish the fourth volume
as reporter. This would have given to the State a continuous
report of the decisions of the court of appeals, as the law contemplated, with the copyright of the notes, &c., secured for the
benefit of the people of the State. If the opinions of the court
came into his hands during his continuance in office, there would
seem to be no impropriety in his publishing them, as filling up
the measure of his term.
But it seems a different view was taken by the late reporter.
As his term of office had expired, he was unwilling to publish
the fourth volume without compensation for his labor. This
changed his relations with the plaintiffs, as that contract was
made as reporter, and on the supposition that he would be continued in that office. Under that contract, the complainants had
the advantage of publishing the reports for the price stipulated,
but any one was at liberty to republish them.
The fourth volume was published by Mr. Comstock as an individual, he having secured to himself the copyright. This
probably insured to the purchaser of the right the republication
of the work for the term of twenty-eight years. Under the
agreements made with the plaintiffs, they had only the profit of
their contract.
Whether the plaintiffs may not have a remedy on their contract with Mr. Comstoc k in the local tribunals of the State, is
not a question before us. Our only inquiry is, whether any relief can be given by this court under the copyright act. Where
a case arises under that act, we have jurisdiction, though both
the parties, as in this case, are citizens of the same State. But
if the act do not give the remedy sought, we can only take
jurisdiction on the ground that the controversy is between citizens of different States.
Were the plaintiffs the legal proprietors of the manuscript
from which the fourth volume of Comstock's Reports was published ? The plaintiffs rely upon their contract with the comptroller, the secretary of state, and Mr. Comstock, the reporter.
In that contract it is said, "this instrument is declared to be an

172

SUPREME COURT.
Little et al. v. Hall et al.

assignment and transfer of the copyright of the matter so published to the parties of the second part."
This contract was made with Mr. Comstock as reporter, and
the plaintiffs agreed to publish the work in volumes containing
five hundred pages each, to have them well bound in calf, the
types, paper, and the entire execution, to be equal to Denio's
Reports; the work to be done under the superintendence of the
reporter; copies to be furnished to certain officers of the State,
and the publishers were to keep the volumes for sale at two dollars and fifty cents per copy; and in all things they were bound
to comply with the statutes of the State.
Comstock could not have published the work as reporter without the consent of the court of appeals, and also the secretary
of state, who was required to secure the copyright to the State;
and for his labor in preparing the notes, references, &c., and superintending the printing, he could have received no compensation.
Without saying what effbct might have been given to the
contract had the relation of the parties remained unchanged, we
are unable to say, as the case now stands before us, that the
plaintiffs were the legal owners of the manuscript within' the
copyright law. The contract was made by Comstock as reporter, whose duties were regulated by law; and the obligations
of the complainants as publishers were embodied in the contract,
and were incompatible with any publication on private account.
The entire labor of the work was performed by Comstock,
not as reporter, but on his own account. It is, we think, not a
case for a specific execution of the contract; and, in effect, that
is the object of the bill. This result has not been brought about
by the acts of Comstock. He may have been imprudent in extending his contract unconditionally beyond the term of his
office. But in doing so he has an apology, if not an excuse, by
being associated in making the contract with two high functionaries of the State. Under the changed relation of the parties,
the plaintiffs cannot be considered as the legal owners of the
manuscript for the purposes of the contract under the copyright
law.
Whatever obligation may arise from the contract under the
circumstances as against Comstock must be founded on his
failure to furnish the manuscripts to the plaintiffs, and of such
a case we can take no jurisdiction as between the parties on the
record.
The decree of the circuit court is affirmed.

