DECEMBER TERM,

1855.

539

Arguello et a]. v. The United States.

costs that may be recovered against him in the superior court.
Such were the legal rights of the appellant when he made his
appeal; and he cannot be deprived of them by the form adopted
by the clerk in entering it. The approval of the security by the
judge, as it appears in the certificates offered in evidence, is
sufficient, and the objection that it was not approved by the court
cannot be maintained.

Upon the whole, we see no ground for dismissing the appeal;
and the motion to dismiss is overruled.

ELLIOTT W. HUDGINS ET AL., APPELLANTS, V. WINDHAM KEMiP,
ASSIGNEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF JOHN L. HUDGINS.

Tins case is in all respects the same with that of Robert
Hudgins v. Kemp, above decided; and for the reasons stated in
that case, the motion in this to dismiss is overruled.

MARIA DE LA SOLIDAD

DE ARGUELLO

ET AL.,

CLAIMANTS AND

THE UNITED STATES,
APPELLANTS, v. THE UNITED STATES.
APPELLANTS, V. MARIA DE LA SOLIDAD DE ARGUELLO ET AL.
Th. title of the family of Arguello confirmed to the following described tract of land
in California, namely, bounded on the south by the Arrogo, or Creek of San Franeisquito, on the north by the Creek San Mateo, on the east by the Esteras, or
waters of the bay of San Francisco, and on the west by the eastern borders of the
valley known as the Canada de Raymundo.
On the 26th of November, 1835, the governor of California gave an order that the
petitioner should have a tract of land without specifying the boundaries, which was.,
done by an order, having the formalities of a defnitive title on the 27th. This
latter document must govern the case. No good title is shown which can include
the valley on the vest.
The testimony upon this point examined.
The decree of 1824 and regulations of 1828 forbid the colonization of territory comprehended within twenty leagues of the boundaries ofany foreign state, and within ten
leagues of the sea-coast, without the consent of the supreme executive power.
But this restriction only included grants to empresarios, who intended to introduce
large colonies of foreigners. It did not prohibit grants of land within those limits
to nativeb of the country.

THESE were appeals from the district court of the United States
for the northeii district of California.
The facts are -tated in the opinion of the court.

