DECEMBER TfERM, 1855.

69

Holroyd v. Pumphrey.

risk, on the part of the lender, he being a stranger to the owner
and master, and must look, from necessity, mainly to the pledge
of the vessel for his security. The court, therefore, leans in
favor of upholding these hypothecations, disregarding technical
objections .and nice distinctions, which sometimes invalidate instruments at common law; but, they are the creatures of necessity
and distress, and are entered into in the absence of the owner,
who has no opportunity to guard his interests; and the transactions, therefore, out of which they arise should be strictly
watched, and the observance of the utmost good faith exacted
from all the parties concerned.
It has been recently held, in the court of exchequer in England, that the master can pledge the ship for repairs, or loan of
money for that purpose, in the foreign port, only by bottomry
security; and that, in the absence of this, the merchant must
look to the personal'responsibility of the owner or master. 73
Eng. Com. Law R. 417; Stainbank and Ambler v. Shepherd.
As this question does not necessarily arise in this case, it is
not important to inquire as to the rule of the admiralty in this
country in this respect.
Judgment of the court below affirmed.
6

JOHN HOLROYD, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

v.

LEVI Pum.PHREY.

Where property stood assessed upon the books of the corporation of Washington in
the name of James Thomas, and was sold for taxes, the sale was good, although
James Thomas was dead when the taxes were levied.
Nor was such sale invalid upon the ground that the corporation had, in a prior year,
sold the property as belonging to the heirs of James Thomas, which sale was not
carried out to completion.
The act of congress, passed on 26th May, 1824, (4 Stats. at Large, 76,) provides for
the case.

Tnis case was brought up by writ of error from the circuit
court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden
in and for the bounty of Washington.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by MAr. Davis and .ir. Lawrence, for the plaintiff in error, and Mkr. Carlisle and Mr. Bradley, for the defendant
in error.

The points did not involve any general principles of law, and
are, therefore, omitted.
Air. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was commenced by the plaintiff, to recover a lot

70

SUPREME

COURT.

Holroyd v. Pumphrey.

of land situate within the city of Washington, in possession of
the defendant.
His title is derived from a sale by the city collector of taxes,
in the year 1846, at which he was the purchaser; and to sustain
it he produced, on the trial of the cause, evidence from the corporation records that the lot had been assessed for taxes as the
property of James Thomas, for the years 1844 and 1845; that
the taxes for those years were not paid; that the lot had been
advertised for sale twelve weeks in one of the city papers, and
that he purchased and obtained a deed for the lot from the
mayor.
It appeared in the evidence, that James Thomas, to whom
the lot had been assessed, had died in 1842; and that the lot
had been advertised for sale in 1844, by the collector of taxes, to
raise the taxes of that year, as the property of" the heirs of James
Thomas," and bid off, but it did not appear that the taxes had
been paid on this bid, or that there was any deed to the purchaser, nor was there an assessment of the lots as the property
of the heirs.
The circuit court gave the following instruction to the jury :"If, from the whole evidence aforesaid, the jury shall find that
the said lots in the said declaration mentioned were,.up to the
year 1844, assessed on the tax-books, at the city of Washington,
in the name of James Thomas; that the said James Thomas, to
whom they were so assessed, in his lifetime held and claimed
the same as his own; that he resided in the said city of Washington, and there died in November, 1842, and letters of administration on his personal estate were granted to his son by the
orphans' court of Washington county, in December, 1842; that
the said lots were, in December, 1844, advertised and sold by
said corporation for taxes due thereon, in the name of the ' heirs
of James Thomas,' and afterwards were advertised and sold
as stated in said plaintiff's evidence, then the plaintiff is not
entitled to recover in this action."
Our opinion is, that the sale in 1844, as the property of the
"heirs of James Thomas," was inoperative upon the title of the
plaintiff. The advertisement did not express the name of the
person to whom the lot was assessed on the books of the corporation at the time of such assessment, as was required by the
act of congress of the 26th May, 1824, amending the city charter;
(4 Stats. at Large, 75, ยง 2;) nor were the taxes due for that year
collected by means of its sale; at most, it was an abortive effort
to do so, which, failing, left the lien of the corporation on the lot
for the assessed taxes, and its legal remedies to enforce it, unimpaired; nor will the fact of the assessment to James Thomas
after his death, nor the advertisement of the property as assessed
to him, defeat the conveyance under the sale.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

71

Smith v. State of Maryland.

The act of congress, above referred to, provides for the case.
It declares, "that no sale of real property, for taxes hereafter
made, shall be impaired or [made] void, by reason of such property not being assessed or advertised in the name or names of the
lawful owner or owners thereof, provided the same shall be advertised as above directed." We have seen that the corporation
was directed to advertise the name of the person to whom the lot
appeared to be assessed on the books of the corporation.
The judgment of the circuit court is reversed, and the cause
remanded for a venire, &c.

ISAAC R. SMIT, OWNER OF THE SLOOP VOLANT, PLAINTIFF IN
ERROR, v. THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
The soil below low-water mark in the Chesapeake Bay, within the boundaries of
Maryland, belongs to the State, subject to any lawful grants of that soil by the
State or the sovereign power which governed its territory before the Declaration
of Independence.

But this soil is held by the State not only subject to, but in some sense in trust for, the
enjoyment of certain public rights, among which is the common liberty of taking
fish, as well shell-fish as floating fish.
The State has a right to protect this fishery by making it unlawful to take or catch
oysters with a scoop or drag, and to inflict the penalty of forfeiture upon the vessel
employed in this pursuit.
Such a law is not repugnant to the constitution of the United States, although the
vessel which is forfeited is enrolled and licensed for the coasting trade under an act
of congress.
Neither is it repugnant to the constitution as interfering with the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the judicial power of the United States.
Nor is the law liable to an objection that no oath is required before issuing a warrant
to arrest the vessel. That clause of the constitution refers only to process issued
under the authority of the United States.

THins case was brought up by writ of error from the circuit
court of the second judicial circuit of the State of Maryland, in
and for Anne Arundel county.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by MAr. Latrobe, for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Campbell, for the State of Maryland.
_31r. Latrobe contended that all the laws of Maryland, namely:
1833, ch. 254 ; 1837, ch. 310 ; 1846, ch. 38 ; 1849, ch. 217, and a
law passed in 1854, should be taken in connection as forming a
body of legislation in pari materia. 12 How. 299.
These laws were said to be unconstitutional on these grounds,
namely: 1. Because they are repugnant to the 8th section of the first

