588

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Shackleford.

yards plainly discern the flat-boat from the steamboat wharf,
while the officers of the steamer, in passing so near the shore,
should not have observed it. The responsible officers of a
steamer, when about to land, are not presumed to close their
eyes; on the contrary, all experience requires an exercise of uncommon vigilance. Landing a boat, especially when the wind is
high, is always attended with more or less danger. After making
due allowance for the lights of the steamer, which enabled
persons from the flat-boat or wharf to see the steamer, and read
her name while passing, the vision of those on board the steamer
could not have been so defective, or blinded by her lights, as not
to perceive the flat-boat. The captain of the steamer was not
sworn, and from this a strong presumption arises that his evidence
would have been against his owners. He must have been on the
alert in landing, as his duty required, and indeed as the evidence
shows he was.
There is no ground of suspicion that the officera of The Southern Belle designed to injure The Rainbow, - on the contrary,
when it was too late, they endeavored to avoid the collision.
Their fault consisted in not landing above the wharf-boat, or in
not keeping up the steam, so as to give them the control of the
boat. The flat-boat was plainly discernible from the wharf-boat;
and if the officers of the steamer did not see it, it was because
they were wanting in vigilance. But whether they saw it, or
not, the respondents are liable for the damage done. The decree
of the circuit court is reversed.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS, V. WILLIAM G. SHACKLEFORD.
The act of congress, passed on the 20th of July, 1840, (5 Stats. at Large, 394,) confers upon the courts of the United States the power to make all necessary rules
and regulations, for conforming the impanelling of juries to the laws and usages in
force in the State.
This power includes that of regulating the challenges of jurors, whether peremptory
or or cause, and in cases both civil and criminal, with the exception, in criminal
cases, of treason and other crimes, of which the punishment is declared to be death.
The act of 1790 recognizes the right of peremptory challenge in these cases, and
therefore it cannot be taken away.
But this recognition does not necessarily draw along with it the qualified right, existing at common law, of challenges by the-government; and unless the laws and
usages of the State, adopted by rule of court, allow it on behalf of the prosecution,
it should be rejected, conforming, in this respect, the practice to the state law.

THIs case came up from the circuit court of the United States
/for the district of Kentucky, on a certificate of division in opinrion between the judges thereof.
The point of difference was thus stated.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

589

The United States v. Shackleford.

Statement of point of disagreement.
The statement of the point upon which the disagreement of the
judges happened having been made, is in these words -

Question of difference.
In the progress of the trial of this cause, and, after the jury
had been in part selected, and other jurors were presented to the
one of them, when
prisoner, he peremptorily challenged
the question arose, whether the defendant was entitled to any
peremptory challenges; on which question the judges were divided in opinion. Whereupon, the point of division, and the
grounds thereof, are ordered to be certified to the supreme court
of the United States, for its opinion and direction to this court on
the case certified.
And the cause was continued to await the instructions of tlhe
J. CATRON.
supreme court.
It was submitted upon printed arguments by Mr. 0ushing,
(attorney-general,) for the United States, and by Mr. Underwood, for the defendant.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes up on a certificate of a division of opinion
between the judges of the circuit court of the United States for
the district of Kentucky.
The prisoner was indicted for a misdemeanor in wrongfully
deserting the mails of the United States, before delivering them
to the proper officer or agent, he being a mail carrier at the time,
and, as such, having the mails in charge. (ยง 21 of act of cong.,
3d March, 1825 ; 4 Stats. at Large, 107.)
A question arose, in impanelling the jury, whether the prisoner
was entitled to a peremptory challenge of one or more jurors,
upon which the judges were divided in opinion.
The act of congress passed 20th July, 1840, 5 Stats. at Large,
394, provides that jurors, to serve in the courts of the United
States, in each State, shall have the like qualifications, and
be entitled to the like exemptions, as jurors of the highest
court of law of such State now have and are entitled to, and
shall hereafter from time to time have and be entitled to ; and
shall be designated by ballot, lot, or otherwise, according to the
mode of forming such juries now practised, and hereafter to be
practised therein, so far as such mode may be practicable by the
courts of the United States, or the officers thereof. "And, for
this purpose, the said courts shall have power to make all
necessary rules and regulations for conforming the designation,
VOL. XVIII.

30

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Shackleford.

and impanelling of juries, in substance, to the laws and usages
now in force in such State; and, further, shall have power by
rule or order, from time to time, to conform the same to any
change in these respects, which may be hereafter adopted by the
legislatures of the respective States for the state courts."
The court is of opinion that the power conferred upon the
federal courts to adopt "rules and regulations for conforming
the designation and impanelling of juries to the laws and usages in force at the time in the State," enables them to adopt
the laws and usages of the State in respect to the challenges of
jurors, whether peremptory or for cause, and in cases both civil
and criminal, with the exception, in criminal cases, of treason
and other crimes, of which the punishment is declared to be
death.
The ยง 80 of the crimes act of 1790, 1 Stats. at Large, 119,
rovides, that if persons indicted for treason against the United
tates shall challenge peremptorily above the number of thirtyfive of the jury, or if persons indicted for any other of the offences before set forth, for which the punishment is declared to be
death, shall challenge peremptorily above the number of twenty
persons of the jury, the court in any of these cases shall, notwithstanding, proceed to the trial of the persons so challenging, &c.
This act of congress having expressly recognized the right of
peremptory challenge in the one case of the number of thirtyfive jurors, and in the other of twenty, they should be regarded
as excepted out of the power conferred upon the courts to regulate the subject by rule or order under the aforesaid act of 1840.
The right of challenge in the cases specified in the act of 1790,
in respect to the number of jurors, is derived from the common
law, which allowed thirty-five in cases of treason, and twenty in
cases of felony. 4 Bl. Com. 354, 355 ; 12 Wheat. 488.
That law also gave to the king a qualified right of challenge
in these cases, which had the effect to set aside the juror till
the panel was gone through with, without assigning cause,
and if there was not a full jury without the person so challenged, then the cause must be assigned or the juror would be
sworn.
The court is of opinion that the right of challenge by the
prisoner recognized by the act of 1790, does not necessarily
draw along with it this qualified right, existing at common law,
by the government; and that, unless the laws or usages of the
State, adopted by rule under the act of 1840, allow it on behalf
of the prosecution, it should be rejected, conforming in this
respect the practice to the state law.
It does not appear in the case before us, whether or not the
court below had adopted the state law under the act of 1840,

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.
Conner et al. v. Elliott et al.

as it existed at or previous to the proceedings certified, and
hence we are not enabled to express any opinion upon the particular question certified. But the opinion expressed upon the
general question will enable the court below to dispose of the
case, without any amendment of the record, or further hearing
of the case.
The cause is, therefore, remanded to the court below to proceed according to the foregoing opinion.

SUSAN E.
CONNER, WIDOW OF HENRY L.
CONNER, DECEASED,
PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM ST. JOHN ELLIOTT, ADMIN-

ISTRATOR, AND DANIEL W. BRICKLE AND
OF HENRY L. CONNER, DECEASED.

WIFE ET AL., HEIRS

The first clause of the second section of the fourth article of the constitution provides
that "tile citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities
of citizens in the several States."
The court Will not describe and define theseasprivileges
and immunities in a general, 5"
it may come up.
clasification, preferring to decide each case

The law of Louisiana gives a community of acquets or gains between married persons, -2
where the marriage is contracted within the State, or where the marriage is con25,
tracted out of the State, and the parties afterwards go there to live.

The privilege thus conferred upon the wife, does not extend, by virtue of the clause
in the constitution above quoted, to a native-born citizen of Louisiana, who was
married whfi6 under age, in the State of Mississippi, in which State was her domicile together with her husband during the continuance of the marriage. Land in
Louisiana, acquired by the husband during the marriage, was not subject to the
Louisiana Jaw, in respect to the community of acquets or gain.
This right was one which attached to the contract of marriage, which the State of

Louisiana had a right to regulate; and was not one of the personal rights of a
citizen, within the meaning of the constitution.

THIS case was brought up from the supreme court of Louisiana, by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the
judiciary act.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr.Henderson, for the plaintiff in error,
and by Hr. Benjamin, for the defendants.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
In the course of proceedings which were had in Louisiana,
under the laws and in the courts of that State, to determine the
rights of parties interested in the succession of Henry L. Conner, deceased, a citizen of the State of Mississippi, his widow,
who is the plaintiff in error in this case, filed in the district court
of the tenth judicial district of the State of Louisiana, a petition,
claiming to he entitled to her rights of marital community,
as they exist under the laws of that State. These rights having

