DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

295

Ransom v. Davis's Administrators.

put such an interpretation on the decree, it was an erroneous
interpretation, and should have been brought before the court
below by an exception. It is too late to object to it here, for
the first time.
The appellants also insist that they were charged with profits
not actually received, by reason of the failure of the purchasers
to pay, and other causes. But this was in accordance with the
agreement of the 9th of February, which stipulates that Kinsman shall be accountable for one hundred dollars profit oil each
machine made and sold by him. By force of this stipulation,
lie and Goddard, who acted with him under this agreement, took
the risk of bad debts. It appears, from the master's report, that
evidence, tending to show that some of these losses were attributable to the interference of Parkhurst, was offered to the master
and rejected by him. But, no exception having been taken to
bring this point before the circuit court, it is not open here.
We have considered all the objections to the decree of the
circuit court, and, finding them untenable, we order the decree
to be affirmed, with damages and costs.

JAMES L. RANSOM, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM WINN AND
ISABELLA DAvIs, ADmINISTRATORS OF Ttto1AS J. DAvis, DECEASED.
Where a petition is filed in a court of chancery by a creditor, praying to be admitted
as a party complainant in a suit then existing, but the naturd of the original suit is
not made to appear, the proceeding is irregular, and cannot be sustained.
Where a chancery suit involves matters of account, the action of a master should be
had in the inferior court, and the items admitted or rejected should be stated, so
that exception may be taken to the particular items or class of items, and such a
case should be brought before this court on the rulings of the exceptions by the
circuit court.

Tins case was brought up by appeal from the circuit court of
the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and
for the county of Washington.
Ransom filed a petition in a cause then pending in the circuit
court of the District of Columbia, and all that the redord exhibited with respect to said cause was its title, namely: William S. Herrman v. Isabella Davis and Thomas Winn,
administrators, Ignatius T. Davis, Francis R. R. Davis et al.,
heirs at law of Thomas J. Davis, deceased. In chancery.
But upon what ground Herrman filed a bill against the administrators and heirs of Davis, the record did not show. The
subsequent proceedings are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. W. S. Cox, for the appellant, and Mr.
Davis, for the appellees.

296

SUPREME COURT.
Ransom v. Davis's Administrators.

Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the District of Columbia.
The proceedings on NWhich the appeal was taken were had on
a petition of the appellant, Ransom, in the circuit court of the
District, stating that he was the creditor of the intestate for
$8,113.48, a balance due on merchandise furnished, and other
matters of account. An account was filed with the petition,
showing the items charged, and he prayed to be made a party
in a suit pending; and he adopts the allegations and prayers of
the bill, and calls upon the defendants to answer, &c.
No answer was filed by the defendants, nor does any part of
the original bill to which reference is made, or any proceeding in
that suit, appear on the record.
An account is stated of the value of produce purchased by
Ransom, and forwarded to Thomas J. Davis, and priced as of the
28th May, 1847, which, in the whole, amounted to E,31,879.80.
The entire expenditure in purchasing the produce, including
losses, amounted to the sum of $21,280.43, leaving a profit of
$10,599.37. A further account is stated in detail of purchases
of grain amounting to a large sum. An auditor was appointed
by the court, who, in a long report, states the correspondence
between Ransom and Davis, which conduces to show that Ransom was engaged in purchasing wheat and other grain, to be
forwarded to Davis, who owned a mill in Georgetown. Exceptions were taken to the report of the auditor, and the court
ordered that the cause be again referred to 'him, with instructions to take such testimony as may be offered by Ransom, on
the points mentioned in his affidavit filed in the cause; and that
he report to this court, as soon as convenient, the substance of
such testimony, and what changes, if any, such additional testimony may render proper in the report heretofore made by said
auditor in reference to said claim.
The a-qditor returned the additional testimony which he took,
but made no alteration in his former report. It was admitted in
the argument that the estate of Davis was insolvent, and the
object of Ransom seemed to be, to enforce his claim against the
estate of Davis in preference to other creditors.
From the -record, the nature of the suit, in which Ransom
prayed to become a party, does not appear. It may have been
a suit by other creditors, but no notice is taken of them in the
subsequent proceeding, nor is there any pleading except the petition to be made a party. This proceeding is irregular, and callnot be sustained. The exceptions to the report of the auditor
were overruled by the circuit court, and the petition of Ransom
was dismissed.

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

297

Lessee of McCall et al. v. Carpenter et al.

Where a chancery suit involves matters of account, the action
of a master should be had in the inferior court, and the items
admitted or rejected should be stated, so that exception may be
taken to the particular items or class of items, and such a case
should be brought before this court on the rulings of the exceptions by the circuit court.

The bill is dismissed at the plaintiff's costs, without prejudice.

JoHN DOE, ex dem. JAmEs B. McCALL, HENRY V. McCALL, AND

MRY

SIDNEY MCCALL, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V.
CARPENTER AND JoHN A. REITZ.*

WVILLIARD

Where there was a decree of a court of chancery for the partition of real estate, an
agreement to divide which had been previously made, but one of the parties to the
agreement had conveyed all his interest in the estate to one of the complainants.
and died before deeds of partition were executed, and the bill was filed against his
heirs simply for partition, the decree of the court and deeds executed under it only
operated upon the parties jointly interested in the property.
Two of the heirs were non-residents, and did not appear; the third was an infant.
Therefore, in an action of ejectment by the heirs, evidence was admissible to show
that the deed from their ancestor had been obtained by fraud. The proceedings in
chancery did not involve this question, nor was it adjudicated upon by the court.
Nor is the question of fraud appropriate to the proceeding in partition ; if raised, the
proceedings are usually suspended, and the question sent to a court of law.
The recitals in the deeds of partition have no binding force beyond what is derived
from the decree.
The defendants were jointly interested with the complainants in one parcel embraced
in the partition suit. The ancestor having conveyed away the property covered by
the deed alleged to have been fraudulently obtained, the heirs had no interest in the
partition of it.
These proceedings being in ren, only operated in respect to the title as against them,
upon that part of the property in which they had a joint interest.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the district of Indiana.
It was an ejectment, brought by the McCalls against Carpenter and Reitz, to recover six blocks, seventy-two lots, and
one half block, in Lamasco city, in the county of Vanderburgh,
in the State of Indiana, of which blocks and lots Carpenter and
Reitz were in possession.
The claim of the plaintiffs was founded upon the following
circumstances :Prior to the 21st of March, 1840, certain persons were possessed of the city of Lamasco, and also of the southeast quarter
of section 23, in town 6, south of range 11, west; consisting of
* lr. Justice CURTIS, apprehending that one of his connections was interested in
the subject-matter of this case, did not sit therein.

