480

SUPREME

COURT.

Bacon et al. v. Robertson et al.

JOHN BACON AND THOMAS ROBINS, SURVIVING TRUSTEES OF THE
BANK

OF

THE UNITED

STATES,

WILLIAM

R.

WHITE

AND

JoHN HOOPER, CITIZENS OF PENNsyLVANiA, LEWIS PHENiX
AND JOHN D. BEERS, CITIZENS OF NEW YoRK, STOCKHOLDERS
OP THE LATE COMMERCIAL BANK OF NATCHEZ, WHO SUE ON BEHALF OF THEMSELVES AND ALL OTHER STOCKHOLDERS OF SAID
LATE COMMERCIAL BANK OF NATCHEZ, WHO ARE CITIZENS OF
OTHER STATES THAN MISSISSIPPI, WHO SHALL COME IN AND SEEK
RELIEF BY, AND CONTRIBUTE TO THE EXPENSES OF THIS SUIT,
COMPLAINANTS AND APPELLANTS, V. WILLIAM ROBERTSON,
PHILIP HOGGATT, HENRY CHOTARD, AND JOHN F. GILLESPIE,
AND OTHERS, (NAMES UNKNOWN,) STOCKHOLDERS OF THE LATE
COMMERCIAL BANK OF NATCHEZ, AND CITIZENS OF THE STATE
OF MISSISSIPPI.
In the State of Mississippi, a judgment of forfeiture was rendered against the Commercial Bank of Natchez, and a trustee was appointed to take charge of the books
and assets of the bank.
Under the laws of Mississippi and the general principles of equity jurisprudence, the
surplus of the assets which may remain after the payment of debts and expenses,
belongs to the stockholders of the bank.
The early and late English cases examined, as to what becomes of the property of a
corporation whose charter has been forfeited by a judicial sentence.
The modern rules of the English courts have been adopted in the United States, extending the protection of chancery over the civil rights of members of moneyed corporations, and recognizing the existence of distinct and individual rights in their
capital and business.
The trustee is estopped from denying the title of the stockholders to a distribution.
The courts of the United States have jurisdiction over the case, and a bill can be
maintained, filed by a number of stockholders owning one fifth part of the capital
stock, suing for themselves and such of the stockholders as were not citizens of
Mississippi, nor defendants in the bill.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the southern district of Mississippi.
The transaction to which the suit relates was partly and incidentally brought before the notice of this court in 16 How. 106.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Tartont and Mr. Yerger, for the appellants, and Mfr. Lawrence, for the appellees.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This bill was filed in the circuit court against William Robertson, a trustee, appointed to liquidate the affairs of the late
Commercial Bank of Natchez, Mississippi, and such of the stockholders of the bank as are citizens of that State, and is prosecuted
by a number of stockholders, owning one fifth part of the capital
stock, for themselves, and such of the stockholders as are not
citizens bf Mississippi, or defendants in the bill.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

481

Bacon et al. v. Robertson et al.

The Commercial Bank was incorporated and organized under
enactments of the legislature in 1836, with a capital of 8 3,050,000, divided into shares of $ 100 each, which are now distributed
among two hundred and eighty persons.
The corporation carried on the business of banking through
the agency of presidents, directors, cashiers, and other officers,
at Natchez, and four other towns of Mississippi, for a number
of years. During this time there was a temporary suspension
of specie payments, which the bill avers to have been accidental, and to have formed the only ground for the proceedings
taken against the corporation. In June, 1845, the circuit court
of Adams county rendered a judgment against the bank, upon
an information in the nature of a quo warranto preferred pursuant to the act of the legislature of July, 1843. By this judgment the bank was "prejudged and excluded from further holding or exercising the liberties, privileges, and franchises granted
by the said charter"; "the liberties, privileges, and franchises
granted to the bank were seized" by the State ; the "property,
books, and assets of the bank" were adjudged to be seized and
delivered to a trustee, who might have execution therefor. William Robertson was appointed that trustee "to take charge of
the books and assets of the bank."
His duties are declared,
conformably to the act of 1843, which will be considered in
another part of this opinion.
The bank appealed from this judgment, and in the spring
session of the high court of errors and appeals, in 1846, it
was affirmed. William Robertson entered upon the office of
trustee in July, 1846. He took possession of money, stocks,
evidences of debt, and real estate having a nominal value of
near four millions of dollars, and continues to hold them, except
in so far as he has applied them to the payment of the charges
of the trust, and the debts of the corporation. The bill alleges'
that all the debts have been paid, and that only a small sum is
due for costs, and that property of great value, consisting of
money, stocks, evidences of debt, bonds, and personality, remains with the trustee, who refuses to account for them to the
stockholders. The object of the bill is to establish the title of
the stockholders to this surplus, and to obtain the ratable shares
of such of them as are able and willing to join as plaintiffs in
this suit. The bill names a number of the stockholders as
parties, and is fitted to embrace all by the representation of
these.
The defendants joined in a general demurrer to the bill; a
decree of dismissal was rendered at the hearing at the circuit,
and, by appeal, was taken up to this court to revise that decision.
VOL. xvn.

41

482

SUPREME COURT.
Bacon et al. -. Robertson et al.

When the defendant, Robertson, assumed the office of trustee,
his duties were defined by two acts of the legislature of Mlississippi. The act of July, 1843, directed the institution of suits
against such of the banking corporations of the State as had
violated their charters in such a manner as to incur their forfeiture, and prescribed the form of the suits for the enforcement
of that forfeiture. It enacted "that upon a judgment of forfeiture against any bank, the debtors of the bank shall not be
released from their debts and liabilities to the same; but it was
made the duty of the circuit court, rendering the said judgment,
to appoint one or more trustees to take charge of the books and
assets of the banks; who should sue for and collect all debts
due such bank, and sell and dispose of all property owned by
it, or held .by others for its use; and the proceeds of the debts,
when collected, and of the property when sold, to apply, as may
hereafter be directed by law, to the payment of the debts of
such bank. The trustee was made subject to a criminal prosecution for embezzlement, conversion of the trust property, as a
failure to account for it according to law; and both acts prescribed a bond to be given to secure the faithful performance of
his duty. The act of February, 1846, amended and enlarged
the scope of the act of 1843, and was applicable to all trustees
appointed under either.
This act provided a summary remedy in favor of the trustee
to obtain the control of the corporate property; for an inventory
to be made to the first court, after his appointment; for an
order of sale of all the corporate property at auction, for cash,
after a notice of ninety days, at specified places; for commissioners to audit the claims against the banks, and for their
presentation to these commissioners; for early decisions upon
the exceptions to their report; for a final decree of distribution,
first, in the payment of expenses, then public dues, costs, and
fees, the debts reported, and, lastly, "the surplus, if any shall be
ratably distributed among the stockholders." There was a provision that the bills of the bank should be receivable for debts,
and that the debtor might redeem from any purchaser of his
debt or obligation, (so sold,) during two years, by paying the
purchase-money, all costs, and twelve and a half per cent interest. The object of the two statutes can hardly be misconceived. They are parts of a system, the latter act being auxiliary to, and adopted in aid of, the provisions of the earlier act
of 1843,--the two acts containing the full expression of the will
of the legislature. The circumstances of the legislature enabled
it to defer the promulgation of its entire policy until the year
1846. The exigencies of the State were entirely answered by
the directions given in 1843 to the executive officers to take

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

483

Bacon et al. v. Robertson et al.

initiatory measures for placing these corporations under restraint,
and for the security of their property. To effectuate these, involved delay and litigation, and the legislature might well await
their issue, before unfolding their whole plan of liquidation and
settlement. The two statutes which embody it have formed
the subject of much discussion in the courts of Mississippi, and
difficulty has been experienced there in carrying them into execution. No suit has been instituted there by the stockholders,
though their rights have been incidentally debated, both at the
bar and by the supreme appellate court. To comprehend the
import of this legislation, we must consider the mischiefs it was
designed to prevent or remove, and the mode adopted to accomplish the end; for the legislation is of a character wholly remedial. The common law of Great Britain was deficient in supplying the instrumentalities for a speedy and just settlement of
the affairs of an insolvent corporation whose charter had been
forfeited by a judicial sentence. The opinion usually expressed
as to the effect of such a sentence was unsatisfactory and questioned. There had been instances in Great Britain of the dissolution of public or ecclesiastical corporations by the exertion of the public authority, or as a consequence of the death
of their members, and parliament and the courts had affirmed in
these instances that the endowments they had received from the
prince or pious founders would revert in such a case. Stat. de
terris Templariorum, 17 Edw. II. ; Dean and Canons of Windsor,
Godb. 211; Johnson v. Norway, Winch. 37; Owen, 73; 6 Vin.
Abr. 280. What was to become of their personal estate and of
their debts and credits had not been settled in any adjudged
case, and as was said by Pollexfen in the argument of the quo
warranto against the city of London, was perhaps "non definitur in jure." Solicitor Finch, who argued for the crown in
that cause, admitted, "I do not find any judgment in a quo
warranto of a corporation being forfeited." Treby, on behalf
of the city, said, "the dissolving a corporation by a judgment in
law, as is here sought, I believe is a thing that never came
within the compass of any man's imagination till now; no, not
so much as in the putting of a case. For in all my search,
(and upon this occasion I have bestowed a great deal of time
in searching,) I cannot find that it ever so much as entered into
the conception of any man before; and I am the more confirmed in it because so learned a gentleman as Mr. Solicitor has
not cited any one such case wherein it has been (I do not say
adjudged but) even so much as questioned or attempted; and,
therefore, I may very boldly call this a case primce imnpressionis."
The argument of Pollexfen was equally positive. The power
of courts to adjudge a forfeiture so as to dissolve a corporation

484

SUPREME COURT.
Bacon et al. v. Robertson et al.

was affirmed in that case, but the effect of that judgment was
not illustrated by any execution, and the courts were relieved
from their embarrassment by an act of parliament annulling it.
Smith's case, 4 Mod. 53; Skin. 310; 8 St. Tri. 1042, 1057, 1283.
Nor have the discussions since the Revolution extended our
knowledge upon this intricate subject. The case of Rex v. The
Amery, 2 D. & E. 515, has exerted much influence upon text
writers. The questions were, whether a judgment of seizure
quousque upon a default was final, and if so, whether the king's
grant of pardon and restitution would overreach and defeat a
charter granting to a new body of men the same liberties intermediate the seizure and the pardon. The king's bench, relying
upon the Year-book of 15 Edw. IV., declared the judgment to
be final and the new charter irrepealable. But the House of
Lords reversed the judgment. The judges, upon an examination
of the original roll of the case in the Year-book, discovered
that it did not support the conclusion drawn from it, and Chief
Baron Eyre says, "that Lord Coke had adopted the doctrine too
hastily." The discussions upon this case show how much the
knowledge of the writ of quo warranto as it had been-used and
applied under the Plantagenets and Tudors, had gone from the
memories of courts and lawyers. 4 D. & E. 122, Tan. on Quo
Warranto, 24. In Colchester v. Seaber, 3 Bur. 1866, where the
suit was upon a bond, and the defence was, that certain facts
had occurred t6 dissolve the corporation, and that the creditor's
claim was extinguished on the bond, Lord Mansfield said,
"Without an express authority, so strong as not to be gotten
over, we ought not to determine a case so much against reason
as that parliament should be- obliged to interfere." The question occurs here, Could parliament interfere? And the answer
would be by their authorizing a suit to be brought notwithstanding the dissolution. These are all cases of municipal corporations where the corporations had no rights in the property of the
corporation in severalty. The courts of Westminster have
found much difficulty in applying the principles settled in regard
to such, to the commercial and trading corporations that have
come into existence during this century. The courts there
within the last twelve months have been troubled to discuss
whether a commercial corporation could recover damages for
the breach of a parole contract, or whether the contract should
have had a seal to make it valid. Austra. R. M. N. Co. v. Marzetti, 32 L. & E. 572; 3 Ib. 420. It may be admitted that the
courts of law could not give any relief to the shareholders of a
corporation disfranchised by a judicial sentence in respect to a
corporate right. Their modes of proceeding do not provide for
the case as they have not for many others. 1 Plow. 276, 277;

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

485

Bacon et al. v. Robertson et al.

Richards v. Richards, 2 B. & Adol. 447; Will. Ex. 1129. But
this concession does not involve an acknowledgment that the
rights of the corporations are extinguished. Courts of chancery
have been forced into a closer contact with these associations,
and have formed a more rational conception of their constitution and a more accurate estimate of their importance to the
industrial relations of society. Those courts have evinced a
spirit of accommodation of their modes of proceeding so as to
adapt them to the changing exigencies of society. Lord Cottenham, in Wallworth v. Holt, 4 M. & C. 635, in reference to
the conduct of suits in which similar associations were concerned, said : "I think it is the duty of this court to adapt its
practice and course of proceeding to the existing state of
society, and not, by too strict an adherence to rules and forms
established under different circumstances, to decline to administer justice and to enforce rights for which there is no other
remedy." In the same spirit, Sir James Wigram, V. C., observes : "Corporations of this kind are in truth little more than
private partnerships; and in cases which may be easily suggested, it would be too much to hold that a society of private
persons associated together in undertakings which, though certainly beneficial to the public, are nevertheless matters of private
property, are to be deprived of their civil rights inter se, because,
in order to make their common objects more attainable, the
crown or legislature have conferred upon them the benefit of a
corporate character." Foss v. Harbottle, 2 Hare, 491. These
just views which have afforded to wise chancellors a sufficient
motive to enlarge the scope and relax the rigor of the rules of
chancery proceeding, so as to bring the civil rights of individuals
in whatever form they may exist, or however complicated or
ramified, under the protection of legitimate judicial administration, have been adopted in the United States, niot simply for the
improvement of methods of proceeding, but also for the adjustment of rights and the assertion of responsibilities among the
members of such associations. In the Bank of the United
States v. Deveaux, 5 Cr. 61, this court held "that the technical
definition of a corporation does not uniformly circumscribe its
capacities, but that courts for legitimate purposes will contemplate it more substantially; and the court in that case allowed
the corporation to use its corporate name for the purposes of
suit in the courts of the United States to represent the civil
capacities of the persons who composed it. So the court has
held that corporate acts need not to be evinced by writing, nor
corporate contracts by a common seal; that corporations are
liable on contracts made or defaults or torts committed by their
officers or agents in the course of their employment. 12 Wheat.
41*

SUPREME COURT.
Bacon et al. v. Robertson et al.

40; Ib. 64; 6 How. 344; 14 Tb. 468. In Lennox v. Roberts,
2 Wheat. 373, the court gave effect to a general assignment of
a corporation of its choses in action made in anticipation of the
expiration of its charter, and which was designed to preserve to
the corporators their rights of property. In the Mumma v. Potomac Company, 8 Pet. 281, it held that the assignment of all
the property of a corporation and the surrender and cancellation
of its charter with the consent of the 'legislature, did not defeat
the right of the judgment creditor to satisfaction out of the
property which had belonged to it. The power of courts of
equity in cases like these was recognized as adequate to maintain the rights of the parties beneficially interested, and this
doctrine was repeated and developed in Curran v. Arkansas, 15
How. 304.
The tendency of the discussions and judgments of the court
of chancery in Great Britain, and of the courts of this country,
is to concede the existence of a distinct and positive right of
property in the individuals composing the corporation, in its
capital and business, which is subject in the main to the management and control of the corporation itself; but that cases
may arise where the corporators may assert not only their own
rights, but the rights of -the corporate body. And no reason
can be given why the dissolution of a corporation, whether by
judicial sentence or otherwise, whose capital was contributed
by shareholders, for a lawful and perhaps laudable enterprise,
with the consent of the legislature, should suspend the operation
of these principles, or hinder the effective interference of the
court of chancery for the preservation of individual rights of
property in such a case. The withdrawal of the charter -that
is, the right to use the corporate name for the purposes of suits
before the ordinary tribunals -is such a substantial impediment
to the prosecution of the rights of the parties interested, whether
creditors or debtors, as would authorize equitable interposition
in their behalf, within the doctrine of chancery precedents.
Stainton v. The Carron Company, 23 L. and E. 315; Travis v.
Milne, 9 Hare, 141; 2 Ib. 491. For the sentence of forfeiture does not attain the rights of property of the corporators
or corporation, for then the State would appropriate it. lf those
rights are put an end to, it would seem to be rather from a careless disregard, or hardened and reckless indifference to consequences, on' the part of the public authority, than from any
preconceived plan or purpose. For, according to the doctrine
of the text writers on this subject, the consequences are visited
without any discrimination; the losses are imposed upon those
who are not blameworthy, and the benefits are accumulated
upon those who are without desert. The effects of a dissolu-

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

487 .

Bacon et al. v. Robertson et al.

tion of a corporation are usually described to be, the reversion
of the lands to those who had granted them; the extinguishment of the debts, either to or from the corporate body, so that
they are not a charge nor a benefit to the members. The
instances which support the dictum in reference to the lands,
consist of the statutes and judgments which followed the suppression of the military and religious orders of knights, and
whose lands returned to those who had granted them, and did
not fall to the king as an escheat ; or of cases of ditsolution of
monasteries and other ecclesiastical foundations, upon the death
of all their members; or of donations to public bodies, such as
a mayor and commonalty. But such cases afford no analogy
to that before us. The acquisitions of real property by a trading
corporation are commonly made upon a bargain and sale, for a
full consideration, and without conditions in the deed; and no
conditions are implied in law in reference to such conveyances.
The vendor has no interest in the appropriation of the property
to any specific object, nor any reversion, where the succession
fails. If the statement of the consequences of a dissolution
upon the debts and credits of the corporation is literally taken,
there can be no objection to it. The members cannot recover
nor be charged with them, in their natural capacities, in a court
of law. But this does not solve the difficulty. The question
is, has the bona fide and just creditor of a corporation, dissolved
under a judicial sentence for a breach in iis charter, any claim
upon the corporate property for the satisfaction of his debt,
apart from the reservation in the act of the legislature which
directed the prosecution ? Can the lands be resumed in disregard of their rights by vendors, who have received a full
payment of their price, and executed an absolute conveyance?
Can the careless, improvident, or faithless debtor, plead the
extinction of his debt, or of the cr6ditor's claim, and thus receive
protection in his delinquency? The creditor is blameless, -he
has not participated in the corporate mismanagement, nor procured the judicial sentence; he has trusted upon visible property acquired by the corporation, in virtue of its legislative
sanction. How can the vendors of the lands or the delinquent
debtors resist the might of his equity? But, if the claims of
the creditor are irresistible, those of the stockholder are not
inferior, at least against the parties who claim to hold the corporate property. The money, evidences of debt, lands, and
personalty acquired by the corporation were purchased with the
capital they lawfully contributed to a legitimate enterprise,
conducted under the legislative authority. The enterprise has
failed under circumstances, it may well be, which entitle the
State to withdraw its special support and encouragement; but

488

SUPREME COURT.
Bacon et al. v. Robertson et al.

the State does not affirm that any cause for the confiscation of
the property, or for the infliction of a heavier penalty, has arisen.
It is a case, therefore, in which courts of chancery, upon their
well-settled principles, would aid the parties to realize the property belonging to the corporation, and compel its application to
the satisfaction of the demands which legitimately rest upon it.
In our view of the equity of this bill we have the support and
sanction of the legislature of Mississippi.
Their legislation
excludes all the consequences which have been imputed as
necessary to.a sentence of dissolution on a civil corporation.
From the plenitude of their powers, for the amelioration of the
condition of the body politic, and the supply of defects in their
system of remedial laws, they have afforded a plan for the
liquidation and settlement of the business of these corporations
in which the equities of the creditors and shareholders respectively are recognized, as attaching to all the corporate property
of whatever description. And the inquiry arises, who is authorized to obstruct the enforcement of these equities in so far as
the stockholders of the Commercial Bank of Natchez are concerned? The creditors have been satisfied. The defendant in
the present suit is the trustee appointed under these legislative
enactments.
His demurrer confesses that he has received
money, stocks, evidences of debt, lands, and personal property,
which he refuses to distribute. He claims that the stockholders
have no rights since the dissolution of the corporation, and if
any, they must be looked for in the circuit court of Adams
county, Mississippi. But the trustee cannot deny the title of
the stockholders to a distribution. To collect and distribute the
property of the corporation among the creditors and stockholders, is his commission, - for this end he was placed in the
possession of the property, and was armed with all the powers
he has exercised.
His title is in subordination to theirs, and his duties are to
maintain their rights and to consult their advantage. Pearson
v. Lindley, 2 Ju. 758; 8 Pet. 43 ; 4 Bligh. 1; Willis Trus. 125,
172, 173. He is estopped from making the defence of a want of
title in the stockholders. Nor is the objection to the jurisdiction of this court tenable. Ten years have nearly elapsed since
this trust was created. The acts of the legislature contemplated
a prompt and speedy settlement. They direct the reduction of
all the property into ready money, and an early distribution
among the parties concerned. The trustee confesses that he
has not sold the lands nor personal estate, and that he has
refused to distribute the money. He has commited a palpable
breach of trust according to the case made by the bill and as
confessed by the demurrer. All the other trusts having been

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

489

Masters and Son v. Barreda and Brother.

fulfilled, the stockholders are entitled to such an administration
as will be most beneficial to them, or to a sale of the trust property in the manner prescribed by the statute of Mississippi. Nor
is the objection to the form of the suit tenable. If the trust
estate had been liquidated and the interests of the stockholders
ascertained, any stockholder might have maintained a suit for
his aliquot share without including any other stockholder.
Smith v. Snow, 8 Mad. C. R. 310. But the trust estate has
not been sold, nor are the names of all the stockholders ascertained, the trustee is called on to account, and the bill asks for
the collection and disposal of the remaining property under the
authority of the court of chancery.
The stockholders are interested in these questions, and are
then proper parties to the bill. The number of the parties
renders it impracticable to bring all before the court, and therefore the suit may be prosecuted in the form which has been
employed in this suit. This court sustained such a bill in the
case of Smith v. Swormstedt, 16 How. 288.
We do not intend to decide any of the questions of the cause
which may arise as to the mode of administering the relief
prayed for in this bill. Our opinion is that the plaintiffs have
shown a proper case for equitable interposition by the circuit
court, and that the decree of that court dismissing the bill is
erroneous.
Decree reversed, and cause remanded.

SOLOMON S. MASTERS AND WILLIAM K. MASTERS, TRADING AS
PARTNERS UNDER THE FIRi AND STYLE OF S. S. MASTERS
AND SON, PLAINTiFFS IN ERROR, v. FREDERICK L. BARREDA
AND PHILLIPPE BARREDA, TRADING AS PARTNERS UNDER THE
FIRM OF F. L. BARREDA AND BROTHER.
When there is a dealing between merchants, for successive cargoes of merchandise
upon time, for which notes of hand were to be given, payable from the date of the
ascertainment of the quantity of each cargo, and an arrangement is afterwards made
for the substitution of an interest account for the notes which were to be given;
and, in that arrangement, the seller stipulates that the allowance of the interest
account should depend upon the continuance of the original time of credit, and
that the buyer's balance on account should always be under a certain sum; and the
buyer exceeds that amount and refuses to make a remittance or payment, upon the
call of the seller, to bring the account within that sum, the seller may arrest the
further delivery of any cargo or cargoes, though the same was in the course of
being delivered to the buyer upon the seller's indorsement of the invoices and bills
of lading of such cargoes.
In the absence of all understanding between the buyer and seller, that any cargo

