60

SUPREME COURT.
Graham v. Bayne.

defendant, being in possession of the land in controversy, had permitted it to be sold for taxes, and had himself become the purchaser
thereof, the deed of the auditor in pursuance of such sale could
convey no title to the defendant, and was not a title obtained in
good faith. The accuracy or inaccuracy of the legal positions
taken by the court in this instruction we deem it not necessary
at present to determine.
We hold, that, in assuming to decide upon the question of good
faith on the part of the defendant, the court exerted an authority
not legitimately belonging to it; a power exclusively appertaining
to the jury. We further hold, that it was error in the court to
decide as it did upol the prayer of the plaintiff in the ejectment,
and by its qualification annexed to the fifth prayer of the defendant, that the deed from the auditor of the 10th of January, 1833,
was not such an instrument as could be adduced in evidence
under the statute of 1839, in order to show color of title. We
are therefore of the opinion that the decision of the circuit court
be reversed, and that this cause be remanded to that court, with
directions to order a venire facias de novo for the trial thereof, in
conformity with the law as herein expounded.

JOHN G. GRAHAM, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

v.

ALEXANDER BAYNE.

A statute passed by the State of Illinois, on 3d March, 1845, permits matters both of
fact and law to be tried by the court, if both parties agree.
Where a case was tried in the circuit court of the United States, in which both parties
agreed that matters of law and fact should be submitted to the court, and it was
brought to this court upon a bill of exceptions which contained all the evidence,
this court will remand the case to the circuit court with directions to award a venire
de novo.
A bill of exceptions must present questions of law. Where there is no dispute about
the facts, counsel may agree on a case stated in the nature of a special verdict. But
to send the whole evidence up is not the same thing as agreeing upon the facts.
Even if a special verdict be ambiguous or imperfect, if it find but the evidence of facts
and not the facts themselves, or finds but parts of the facts in issue, and is silent as
to others, it is a mis-trial, and the court of error must order a venire de noto. They
can render no judgment on an imperfect verdict or case stated.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error, from the circuit
bourt of the United States for the district of Illinois.
It was an action of ejectment brought by Bayne against
Graham, to recover the southeast quarter of section 15, in townships seven, range four east.
The circumstances under which the case came up are stated in
the opinion of the court. It was argued by M11r. Browning for
the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Williams, for the defendant; but
as their arguments were directed to the merits of the case, which
were not decided lly this court, they are omitted.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

61

Graham v. Bayne.

Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was tried in the circuit court for the district of Illinois, without the intervention of a jury, and under the following
:-agreement of counsel
"Be it remembered, that upon the calling of this cause for
trial, by the mutual agreement of the parties, and in accordance
with the laws and practice of this State, a jury was waived, and
both matters of law and fact were submitted to the court, upon
the distinct understanding that the right of either party should
be fall and perfect to object to the admission of improper evidence, and to insist upon the admission of competent evidence,
with the same privilege of excepting to the rulings of the court
in either case, as though the cause were tried by a jury; and
withi the right to either party to avail himself in the supreme
court of any erroneous ruling in this court, precisely as though
the cause had been submitted to a jury, and with liberty to either
party, if it should be necessary to a hearing of this cause in the
supreme court, to treat the evidence in this cause in the nature
i
of a special verdict."
The common law has been adopted by Illinois, and all the
States except Louisiana. In that State, the courts of the United
States have been compelled to adopt the forms of pleading and
practice peculiar to the civil law and the code. That system
knows no distinction between law and equity. All cases are
tried alike, on petition and answer, with or without the intervention of a jury, as the parties may elect.
This court having .separate jurisdiction, both in equity and
law, is compelled to distinguish. They can review cases in common law by writ of error only, and on bills of exception presenting questions of law. The circuit courts may adopt the forms
of pleading and practice of the state courts, but no state legislation can be applied to the practice of this court, and the mode in
which causes shall be brought into it for review.
The very numerous cases on this subject, (from Field v.
United States, 9 Pet. 182, to Arthurs and Hart, 17 How. 6,)
show the difficulties we have had to encounter in reconciling our
modes of review to the civil code of practice as used in the
courts of Louisiana.
But in the States governed by the common law, and where
the circuit courts are not compelled to adopt every new code of
practice invented for the benefit of state courts, there is no reason
why the strict rules of the common law should, be in anywise
relaxed or changed in this court, to suit the anomalies in practice thus introduced in the circuit courts. That the courts of
the United States should not be hasty in adopting new codes of
practice, which attempt to ingraft the civil law system of pleadVOL. XVIiL

6

62

SUPREME COURT.
Graham v. Bayne.

ing and practice on the stalk of the common law, the cases of
Butterworth v. Burnet, and Toby v. Randon, 11 How., most
amply demonstrate.
The 11th section of the practice act of Illinois, (March 3,
1845,) permits matters both of fact and law to be tried by the
court, if both parties agree.
Counsel may agree, as in this case, to submit both fact and
law to the decision of the court; but they cannot, by agreement,
introduce a new practice into this court, or compel us to adopt
the provisions of the 22d section of the same act, as to the mode
in which such cases shall be reviewed in error. The practice of
this court is regulated by the common law and acts of congress
only. See Bayard v. Lombard, 9 How. 530.
If the parties agree to submit the trial both of fact and law
to the judge, they constitute him an arbitrator, or referee, whose
award must be final and conclusive between them; but no consent can constitute thiq court appellate arbitrators. When the
error alleged does not appear on the face of the record, or on a
demurrer, a bill of exceptions to the ruling of the court on questions of law, either in admitting or rejecting testimony, or in their
instructions to the jury, constitutes the only mode of bringing a
case before this court for review.
It is true, that when there is no dispute as to the facts, counsel may agree on a case stated in the nature of a special verdict;
and the judgment of the court below on such case stated, or verdict, may be reviewed here on a writ of error. See Stimpson v.
The Railroad, 10 How. 329.
The counsel in this case have agreed, that "if it should be
necessary to a hearing of this cause in the supreme court, to
treat the evidence in the nature of a special verdict," this agreement may be good as between themselves, and point out the
source from which the facts for a case stated, or special verdict,
may be drawn, but it cannot compel this court to search through
the evidence to find out the facts. The record exhibits the
testimony and evidence laid before the judge. It is evidence
of facts, but not the facts themselves as agreed or found. The
court below decided that a certain deed given in evidence did
not show sufficient "1color of title" under the limitation law of
Illinois. The act referred to requires not only "color of title,"
but a possession taken and held "in good faith," with payment
of taxes. The question of "good faith" is one of fact, or of
mixed fact and law, to be decided by the jury under proper instructions from the court. It is one necessary to be ascertained
before the court can give a judgment.
Even if we should consent to review this loose statement of
evidence as a case stated, it contains no finding or agreement

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

63

Carrington v. Pratt.

whatever as to this material fact. Where there is a case stated,
or special verdict, the court of error must not only reverse the
judgment below, if found erroneous, but enter a correct and
final judgment.
If a special verdict be ambiguous, or imperfect,-if it find but
the evidence of facts, and not the facts themselves, or finds but
part of the facts in issue, and is silent as to others, - it is a mistrial, and the court of error must order a venire de novo. They
can render no judgment on an imperfect verdict, or case stated.
See Prentice v. Zane, 8 How. 484.
No mere agreement of counsel can substitute evidence of
facts in place of facts, or require the opinion of this court on an
imperfect statement of them. A writ of error cannot by these
methods be converted into a chancery appeal,, nor a court of
error into appellate arbitrators.
The judgment of the circuit court is therefore reversed, and a
venire de nov awarded.

NEHEMIAH

LIBELLANT AND APELLANT, v. T lE
C. PRATT, LEONARD B. PRATT, CLAIMANT.

CARRINGTON,

BRIG ANN

Where a bottomry bond was taken for a larger amount than was actually advanced,
with a fraudulent purpose to enable the owner of the vessel to recover the amount
of the bond from the underwriters, the bond was void.
Not only so, but the lender of the money loses his maritime lien upon the vessel for
the sum actually advanced.

T~is was an appeal in admiralty from the circuit court of the
United States for the district of Maine.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mllr. Bowe, for the appellant, and Mr. Fessenden, for the appellee.
Mr. Rowe made the following points, namely:1. Airey was rightfully in possession and command of the
brig at St. Thomas, and had power to hypothecate her.
2. Airey's conduct, if wrong in this respect, cannot affect the
libellant's claim. 3 Sumn. 228.
3. The attempt at deception was not for the purpose of
wronging or injuring any party.

4. It does not appear that Carrington was particeps criminis.
5. The bond is not void in toto, but valid to the extent of the
actual advances and interest. 1 Dodson, 389; 8 Pet. 228;
1 Wheat. 107.

