202

SUPREME COURT.
Abbott et ux. v. Essex Company.

The case of Forgay et al. v. Conrad, 6 How. 201, was an appeal from an interlocutory decree, which was sustained, though
objected to. But this deoision was made under the peculiar
circumstances of that case. The decree was, that certain deeds
should be set aside as fraudulent and void; that certain'lands
and slaves should be delivered up to the complainant; that one
of the defendants should pay a certain sum of money to the
complainant; that the complainant should have execution for
these several matters; that the master should take an account
of the profits of the lands and slaves, and also an account of
certain money and notes, and then said decree concluded as
follows, viz.: "And so much of said bill as contains or relates
to matters hereby referred to the master for a report, is retained
for further decree in the premises," &c.
It will be observed, that two deeds for lots in New Orleans
were declared to be null and void, and certain slaves owned by
Forgay, one of the appellants, were directed to be sold on execution, as also the real estate and the proceeds distributed among
the bankrupt's creditors; and if the defendants principally interested could not take an appeal until the return of the master,
their property, under the decree, would have been disposed of
beyond the reach of the appellate court, so that an appeal would
be useless. This was the principal ground on which the appeal
was sustained, although it was stated that this part of the decree
was final.
The court say: "The decree upon these matters might and
ought to have awaited the master's report; and when the accounts were before the court, then every matter in dispute might
have been adjudicated in one final decree ; and if either party
thought himself aggrieved, the whole matter would be brought
here and decided in one appeal, and the object and policy of the
acts of congress upon this subject carried into effect."
The decree before us is not final, consequently it must be dismissed.

JAMES

A.

ABBOTT AND HANNAH K., ms WIFE, DMIANDANTS AND
THE ESSEX COmPANY, TENANTS.

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v.

The following clause in a will, namely: "I give to my two sons, viz. John and Jacob,
all my lands, &c., live stock, &c., tools, &c., bonds, &c., to be equally divided between them, and the executor is ordered to pay debts out of that part of the estate.
Item. -It is my will that if either of my said sons, John and Jacob, should happen
to die without any lawful heirs of their own, then the share of him who may tirst
decease shall accrue to the other survivor and his heirs," gave an estate in fee simple to John and Jacob, and the share of the one who first died without issue passe
over to the other son by way of executory devise.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

203

Abbott et ux. v. Essex Company.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the circuit
court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts.
The part of the will which gave rise to-the question is stated
in the opinion of the court.
It was admitted by the parties that said testator died in the
year 1775; that his will was duly proved August 5, 1776 ; that
his two sons, John Kittredge and Jacob Kittredge, survived him;
that said John Kittredge died in the year 1826, never having
been married ; that said Jacob Kittredge died in the lifetime of
his brother John, on July 15, 1807, leaving the following children, namely: John Kittredge, his oldest child, who died, without ever having had issue, on the 10th of January, 1823; Jacob
Kittredge, his next oldest child, who died December 18, 1831,
having had issue one child, who is the demandant, Hannah Kittredge Abbott; Thomas W. Kittredge, his next child, who is
now alive; Hannah Kittredge, his next child, who died intestate
on the 28th of October, 1815, never having had issue; George
W. Kittredge, his next child, who died July 4, 1836, intestate,
having had issue one child, Jacob Kittredge, who is now alive;
and William H. Kittredge, his last child, who died -intestate on
the 1st of October, 1849, never having had issue. The marriage
of the demandants was also admitted, and that the surviving
son of Jacob Kittredge, the devisee named in said will, and also
his surviving grandchild, had, before the commencement of the
suit, released and conveyed to demandants all their interest and
in the demanded premises.
Ititle
The
demandants thereupon submitted, and requested
the
judge to instruct the jury, that, by the said will of John Kittredge, his two sons John and Jacob, therein named, took and
became seised as to the real estate therein devised to them in
equal moieties of an estate tail general, with cross remainder in
fee-simple, it being material and necessary, to enable the demandants to maintain the issue on their part, to prove that
estates tail as aforesaid were so devised by the said will. But
the judge refused so to instruct the jury, but did instruct them
that, under said will, the testator's said sons, John Kittredge and
Jacob Kittredge, took and became seised of an estate in fee simple, and that the share of the one of the said sons who should
first die without issue in the lifetime of the other of said sons,
would in that event go over to said other son by way of executory devise.
A writ of error brought up this ruling fdr review.
The case was argued by Hr. Abbott and Mr. F-essenden, for
the plaintiffs in error, and r2..9ferwin an'd Mr. Loring, for the
defendants.

204

SUPREME COURT.
Abbott et ux. v. Essex Company.

The points made by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error
were the following, namely:The plaintiffs in error claim that the estate which the two
sons, John and Jacob, took under this will were estates in fee
tail general, with cross remainders in fee-simple.
Rule of Interpretation.
The rule by which this court is to be governed, in the interpretation of this will, is the rule of law which has been established by the highest judicial tribunal of the State or district in
which the land lies, or the suit originated. Hinde v. Yattier,
5 Pet. U. S. Rep. 897; Jackson v. Chew, 12 Wheat. 158; Bank
of the United States v. Daniels, 12 Pet. 83; Webster v. Cooper,
14 How. 488.
Propositions.
1. The testator, by the first clause in the will, gave to John
and Jacob an estate for life only; and, although he directed the
executor, John, to see that the debts and legacies were paid out
of that part of the estate given to John and Jacob, this was a
charge upon the estate or fund given to John and Jacob, and not
upon the sole executor personally; and therefore the charge does
not enlarge the estate for life to an estate in fee-simple. 2 Jarman on Wills, 126, and note; Denn v. Slater, 5 D. & E. 335;
Doe v. Owens, 1 Barn. & Adolph. 318; Denn v. Afellor, 5 D. &
E. 558; Clark v. Clark, 1 Crompt. & Mees. 39; Lithgow v.
Kavanagh, 9 Mass. 161; Cook v. Holmes, 11 Mass. 528; Wait
v. Belding, 24 Pick. 129; Parker v. Parker, 5 Met. 134; Gardner v.
Gardner, 3 Mason, 209; Legh v. Warrington, 1 Br. Parl. C. 511;
Williams v. Chitty, 3 Ves. jr. 552 ; Nfiles v. Leigh, 1 Atk. 573.
2. Having given each of his two sons an estate for life, the
next item in the will (namely, the proviso "that if either of said
sons, John or Jacob, should happen to die without any lawful
heirs of their own ") enlarges the estate for life to an estate tail
in each of the two sons ; and, by the use of such language, the
testator intended an indefinite failure of issue. Purefoy v. Rogers, 2 Saunders, 380; Sonday's Case, 9 Coke, 127 ; King v.
Rumball, Cro. Jac. 448; Chaddock v. Crowley, Cro. Jac. 695 ;
Holmes v. Mleynel, T. Ray. 452; Forth v. Chapman, 1 P. Will.
663 ; Brice v. Smith, Willes's Rep. 1 ; Hope v, Taylor, 1 Burr,
268; Doe v. Fonnereau, Doug. 504; Denn v. Slater, 5 Term
Rep. 335 ; Doe v. Rivers, 7 Ibid. 276; Doe v. Ellis, 9 East, 382;
Goodridge v. Goodridge, 7 Mod. 453; Tenney v. Agar, 12 East,
253 ; Kirkpatrick v. Kirkpatrick, 13 Ves. jr. 476; Barlow v. Slater, 17 Ves. 479; Roliaily v. James, 6 Taunt. 263 ; Atkinson v.
Hutchinson, 3.P. Will. 258; Sheffield v. Orrery, 3 Atk. 282;

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

205

Abbott et ux. v. Essex Company.

Lampley v. Blower, Ibid. 896; Shepperd v. Lessingham, Amb.
122; Gordon v. Adolphus, 3 Bro. P. C. 806; Geering v. Shenton, Cowper, 410 ; Peake v. Pegden, 2 T. R. 720 ; Cadogan v.
Ewart, 7 Ad. & E. 636; Walter v. Drew, Com. Rep. 292; Dansoy v. Griffiths, 4 M. & S. 61; Wallers v. Andrews, 2 Bing. 196;
Crooke v. De Vandes, 9 Ves. 197; Elton v. Eason, 19 Yes. 77;
Todd v. Duesbury, 8 M. & W. 514; Sampson v. Sampson, 4
N. C. 383; 2 Fearne, Ex. Dev. 5 Ed. 200; Bamford v. Lord, 14
Com. Bench, 707; Newton v. Griffiths, 1 Har. & Gill. 111; Bells
v. Gillespie, 5 Rand, 273 ; Broaddus v. Turner, Ibid. 808 ; Sydnor v. Sydnor, 2 Munf. 268; Cruger v. Hayward, 2 Dessaus, 94;
Erwin v. Dunwood, 17 Serg. & Rawle, 61; Caskey v. Brewer,
Ibid. 441; Heffer v. Knepper, 6 Watts, 18; Patterson v. Ellis,
11 Wend. 259; Hunter v. Haynes, 1 Wash. 71; Lillebridge v.
Adie, 1 Mason, 285; Dallam v. Dallam, 7 Harr. & John. 220;
Eichelberger v. Barnitz, 9 Watts, 447; Waples v. Harmon, 1
Earring. 223 ; Jiggetts v. Davis, I Leigh. 368.; Ide v. Ide, 5
Mass. 500; Hawley v. Northampton, 8 Mass. 8; Nightingale v.
Burrill, 15 Pick. 104; Adams v. Cruft, 14 Pick. 25; Parker v.
Parker, 5 Met. 134; Wight v. Thayer, 1 Gray, 286.
3. Where, by one clause in a will, an estate for life, or an estate in fee-simple, is given by plain words, if it appear in other
parts of the will, by explanatory words or by implication, that
it was the intent of the testator in such devise that the issue
should take the estate in succession after him, then the life estate
is enlarged in the one case, and the estate in fee reduced in the
other, to an estate tail. Nightingale v. Burrill, 15 Pick. 104;
Parker v. Parker, 5 Met. 134.
4. The words "lawful heirs of their own," mean "heirs of
the body lawfully begotten" ; and in this will they are technical, and used as words of limitation, restraining the devise to a
certain class of heirs, namely, the heirs of the body of either John
or Jacob. See authorities under second proposition.
5. That the meaning and intention of the testator, by the use
of the words " first decease," was, the one that should so first
decease; namely, should first decease without heirs of the body
lawfully begotten.
6. The testator, by the use of the words " other survivor,"
meant and intended "other" simply, and thereby showed his
especial reference to the children or heirs of the body of either
of the devisecs; meaning and intending, if either left heirs of
the body at any time, they were to take their father's estate according to the will of the testator. . 2 Jarman on Wills, 609,
735; Doe v. Wainewright, 5 Durn. & E. 427; Anderson v. Jackson, 16 Johns. 415; Cole v. Sewall, 2 Conn. & Law. 344; Aiton
v. Brooks, 7 Sim. 204; Harmon v. Dickinson, 1 Brown C. C. 82.
VOL. XV1II.

18

206

SUPREME COURT.
Abbott et ux. v. Essex Company.

7. In a devise of real and personal property, the law makes a
distinction as to the two estates, in the construction of devisees;
and, when technical language is used, the devisee takes an absolute estate in the personal, and a limited estate, or an estate tail,
in the real property. Forth v. Chapman, 1 P. Will. 668; Barnford v. Lord, 14 Com. Bench, 707, in which all the English cases
are collated; Hawley v. Northampton, 8 Mass. 3; Nightingale
v. Burrill, 15 Pick. 104; Adams v. Cruft, 14 Pick. 25; Parker v.
Parker, 5 Mlet. 134.
8. The use of the word "estate" in the first clause, or in other
parts of the will, is not for any technical or specific purpose, but
simply directory and descriptive. It was used to designate the
fund only out of which the debts and legacies were to be paid.
Gardner v. Gardner, 3 Mason, 209, and other authorities cited
under first proposition.
9. If the testator had not referred to John and Jacob any further than to have given them all his land, &c., to be equally
divided between them, and directed John to see that the debts
and legacies were paid, they might each have taken a fee-simple
by implication; but, having controlled this intent by the proviso
in the will, that if either should happen to die without heirs of
the body, this creates an estate tail in each son, with cross-remainders in fee-simple absolute. Parker v. Parker, 5 Met. 134;
Bells v. Gillespie, 5 Rand. 273 ; Caskey v. Brewer, 17 Serg. &
Rawle, 441.
10. If the testator's sons, John and Jacob, took and became
seised of an estate in fee-simple, the share of him who should
first die without issue would, in that event, go to the other, if living, by way of executory devise ; and if the other son was not
living, it would go to his heirs.
Points of Defendants in Error.
The defendants submit, as the proper construction of this will,
that it gave to the two sons a fee-simple conditional, with executory devises over, and not an estate tail general, with cross remainders in fee.
That each son took a fee-simple, upon this single contingency: that if the son who died first left no issue, then that his
share was to pass to the surviving brother, by way of executory
devise.
I. By the first clause, independent of that which devised the
estate over, a fee-simple absolute was given to the two sons.
1. Although the devising clause contains no words of inheritance, yet it charges personally one of the devisees with the payment of debts and legacies, by reason of the estate devised, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

207

Abbott et ux. v. Essex Company.

therefore carries a fee by implication. Lithgow v. Kavenagh,
9 Mass. 165, 166; Wait v. Belding, 24 Pick. 139.
And as the intent of the testator is.clear, that both sons should
take the same estate, if John, the executor, took a fee, then Jacob
did also. Roe v. Dow, 8 M. & S. 518.
(a.) The direction to pay the debts and legacies out of the
estate devised, creates a charge upon the devisee personally, as
well as upon the estate. Doe v. Richardson, 3 Term R. 356;
Doe v. Snelhing, 5 Ibid. 87; Spraker v. Van Alystyne, 18 Wend.
205; Gardner v. Gardner, 8 Mason, 178; 2 Jarman on Wills,
172.
(b.) Moreover, the charge is here imposed "in consideration
of what is given the said sons," clearly importing that a personal
liability wasintended.
(c.) The rule is the same, although the devisee charged is
named as executor. Goodtitle v. Maddern, 4 East, 496; Doe v.
Holmes, 8 Term R. 1; Doe v. Phillips, 3 B. & Adolph. 753;
Dolton v.'Hewer, 6 Madd. Oh. R. 9; 2 Jarman on Wills, 172.
2. One of the legacies given is the maintenance of Sarah
Dwinnel, a granddaughter, "out of that part of my estate I give
to my sons, John and Jacob Kittredge, until she arrives to the
p. 6.)
ageIfoflifeeighteen
estates years."
only were(Record,
given to the two sons, then the manifest intention of the testator might be defeated, by their dying
before she reached that age.
3. The testator directs the legacies to be paid "out of that
part of my estate I have given to my two sons."
It is well settled, that a devise of one's "estate" includes all
the testator's interest in the subject devised; and this is true,
although it is accompanied with words descriptive only of the
corpus of the property. Godfrey v. Humphrey, 18 Pick. 537 ;
Paris v. Miller, 5 M. & S. 408 ; Gardner v. Harding, 3 J. B.
Moore, 565; 2 Jarman on Wills, 181, 182.
If then, this expression, "this part of my estate," &c., had
been used in the clause making the gift, it would clearly have
carried a fee.
But the testator's intention to give a fee is a§ fairly inferable
from his subsequently describing what he has given, as "that
part of my estate," &c., as if he had used those words in making
the gift.
If the intention to give a fee appears from any part of the
will, a fee will pass.
II. The next inquiry is, whether the fee-simple thus given is
reduced by the succeeding clause of the will, to an estate tail
by implication: Item, "It is my will that if either of my said
sons should happen to die without any lawful heirs of his own,

208

SUPREME COURT.
Abbott et ux. v. Essex Company.

then the share of him who may first decease shall accrue to the
other survivor and his heirs."
This depends upon whether the testator has provided for a
definite or indefinite failure of issue.
If he intended a failure of issue at the death of the first taker,
then the will gives a fee-simple conditional, and not an estate
tail; and the limitation over, not being too remote, is good as
an executory devise. Pells v. Brown, Cro. Jac. 590, and cases
cited post.
The defendants contend that this is the proper construction
of the will.
The demandants rely upon this rule of construction, namely,
that, in a devise, words referring to the death of a person without issue are construed to import an idefinite failtre of issue,
instead of a failure at the death of such person. 2 Jarman on
Wills, 418.
But this rule, taken with its proper qualifications, will not justify the construction which the demandants seek to giv this will.
This involves, 1. A brief examination of the rule itself, and of some of its
established qualifications.
2. The inquiry, what, if any, is the rule of construction as
settled in Massachusetts ; and how far it conforms to the rule as
established elsewhere.
3. A consideration of the provisions of this will, and the in
quiry whether, under the application of the rule thus ascertained,
they do not plainly refer to a definite failure of issue'.
I. The rule itself is entirely artificial, giving an arbitrary meaning to certain forms of expression, as "dying without issue,"
and the like. Its application, therefore, should be limited to
these settled forms of expression. 2 Jarman on Wills, 418.
1. It is generally conceded that the rule violates the natural
meaning of language, and in most cases tends to defeat rather
than to give effect to the intentions of testators. 2 Jarman on
Wills, 418; Keily v. Fowler, Oh. J. Wilmot Notes, &c., 298;
Hall v. Chaffee, 14 N. H. 216, and cases post.
Insomuch, thqt in England and several of the States, the rule
has been abolished by express legislation. 1 Vict. c. 26, § 29;
New York R. St.; Virginia, 1819; Miss. 1824; N. 0. 1827.
2. Its qualifications.
A limitation "if T. died without issue, living his brother W.,
then to W." refers to a failure of issue at the death of T. Pells
v. Brown, Cro. Jac. 590.
So also the words, if one die, "leaving no issue behind him,"
Porter v. Bradley, 3 Term R. 143; and, if one leave no issue,
then life estates, " to the survivor or survivors." Roe v.. Jeffrey,
7 Term R. 585.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

209

Abbott et ux. v. Essex Company.

The limitation, in bequests, " to the survivor," has been uniformly held in England to denote a definite failure of issue.
Hughes v. Sayer, 1 P. Win. 534; Ranelagh v. Ranelagh, 2 M.
& K. 441; Radford v. Radford, 1 Keen, 486; Lewis on Perpetuities, 218.
Although it may not have been so held in reference to devisees
of real estate. See Lewis on Perp. 221.
In the United States, it is settled by numerous authorities
that a limitation, "to the survivor," imports a definite failure of
issue, in gifts both of real and personal estate. Fosdick v. Cornell, 1 Johns. R. 440; Anderson v. Jackson, 16 Johns. 382;
Jackson v. Chew, 12 Wheat. 153; Wilkes v. Lyon, 2 Cowen,
333; Cutter v. Doughty, 23 Wend. 513; Dawson v. De Forest,
3 Sandf. Ch. R. 456; Heard v. Horton, 1 Denio, 165; Dew v.
Schenk, 3 Hals. 29; Cordle v. Cordle, 6 Munf. 455; Rapp -v.
Kapp, 6 Barr. 45; Johnson v. Currier, 10 Barr. 498; Morgan v.
Morgan, 5 Day, 517; Couch v. Gorham, 1 Conn. 36.
II. The rule in Massachusetts is, that although a devise to one
and his heirs, and if he die without issue, then to another, will
create an estate tail, with remainder over, yet that this construction will be controlled by ojher words, showing that the testator
referred to a failure at the death of the first taker. Hawley v.
Northampton, 8 Mass. 41.
And in conformity with the American doctrine, it has been
held, that a limitation to the survivor denotes a definite failure
of issue. Richardson v. Noyes, 2 Mass. 56. See Ide v. Ide et al.
5 Mass. 500.
The case of Parker v. Parker, 5 Met. 134, cannot be considered
as having established a rule of construction which controls this
case, for these reasons. 12 Wheat. 153.
1. The construction of a will by a state court does not constitute a rule of decision for this court, unless it has been long
acquiesced in as a rule of real property. Lane et al. v. Vick et
al. 3 How. 476; Comer v. Brown, 16 How. 354.
2. That decision was made on the ground that the testator
did not intend to givd more than an estate tail to the sons;
whereas, in this case, as already shown, the sons were intended
to have a fee.
3. That decision was based upon erroneous principles, and is
obviously the result of inadvertence.
. (a.) The rule of Purefroy r. Rogers, 2 Saund. 388, on which
the opinion was founded, is not a rule of construction, favoring
the presumption that the particular estate is an estate tail, rather
than a fee-simple. See also Doe v. Morgan, 3 Term R. 763;
Nightingale v. Burrill, 15 Pick. 111.
(b.) The opinion proceeded on the mistaken idea, that a limi18*

SUPREME

COURT.

Abbott et ux. v. Essex Company.

tation over on the failure of issue, necessarily implied that the
first taker was to have an estate tail, without referring to the
decisive distinction, whether the limitation was upon a definite
or indefiflite failure of issue. (p. 139.) But see Nightingale v.
Burrill, 15 Pick. 113.
(c.) The conclusion, that the will created an estate tail, was
entirely inconsisteht with what the court had previously declared,
p. 137, to be "the manifest object of the testator"; and that was,
to give a fee-simple conditional.
4. That decision cannot control the construction of this will,
because the single question upon which this depends was neither
passed upon nor adverted to; namely, whether a definite or indefinite failure of issue was intended.
If it had been, it is utterly improbable that the court would
have come to the result they did; for it is undoubted law everywhere, that a limitation over upon the first taker's dying without
issue, and under twenty-one years of age, is clearly upon a definite
failure of issue. Pells v. Brown, Cro. Jac. 5.90; Glover . Monckton, 8 Bingh. 18; Doe v. Johnson, 16 L. & E. 550; Lippett v.
Hopkins, 1 Gall. 454; Barnitz v. Casey, 7 Cranch, 456; Ray v.
Enslin, 2 Mass. 554.
5. The provisions of the will in that case, and of the will in
this are materially different.
III. This will provides for a definite failure of issue.
1. The language, "if either son should happen to die without
heirs," denotes that the testator was contemplating a contingency
which would occur, if at all, at the death of such son.
2. The limitation is "to the other survivor."
According to the decision s.ura,a limitation to the "survivor"
denotes a definite failure of issue.
But here the limitation is "to the other survivor."
The term survivor, as here employed, cannot be construed to
mean "other"; for, as the term "other" is also used, such a
construction would deprive "survivor" of all force.
This language shows that the testator referred to the other,
personally, as the survivor.
8. It is clear, that a fee-simple, and not an estate tail, is devised
over, "to the survivor and his heirs."
It is highly improbable that the testator intended, in the event
of the limitation over taking effect, that the son should hold one
half the estate in fee-simple, and the other in fee-tail.
4. It is "the share" of him who may die first, that is devised
over.
(a.) The term "share," in a devise, denotes all one's interest,
and will pass a fee. Paris v. Miller, 5 M. & S. 408; Doe v.
Bacon, 4 M. & S. 366.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

211

Abbott et ux. v. Essex Company.

(b.) Here, a fee-simple is clearly devised over, and it is called
"the share" of the first taker. This certainly implies that that
"share" was a fee-simple.
(c.) The true import of this language is,and the understanding of the testator undoubtedly was, that what is given over,
(i. e. a fee-simple,) is just exactly what the first taker would
have held, had he not died without issue.
5. The devise includes both real and personal estate.
(a.) It is very certain that the testator did not intend to limit
over the personal property, on an indefinite failure of issue, and
from uniting the two in the same clause and in the same contingency, the inference is equally as strong as to the real estate.
Porter v. Bradley, 3 Term R. 146, and Richardson v. Noyes, 2
Mass. 63, are direct authorities.
(b.) A distinction has indeed been sometimes mada between
real and personal estate, but the soundness of this distinction is.
denied by the weight of authority. Vide cases supra.
6. Lastly, it is the share of him "who may first decease" that
is devised over.
(a.) This language cannot be taken literally, for then the share
of the one dying first would go over, although he left issue.
(b.) Nor does it mean merely the share of him who may die
without issue; for this would disregard the plain provision of
the will, that it must be the share of him who dies first.
(c.) The testator's meaning is clear; the share bf him "who
may first decease " is devised over, "if he happens to die without lawful heirs," (i. e. issue;) but in no event is any other
share devised over but his who may first decease.
These words, in connection with the fact that the limitation
is to the survivor, demonstrate that the testator referred to the
period of the death of the first taker.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The questions submitted to our consideration in this case arise
on the construction of the will of John Kittredge, deceased, and
on the following devise to his sons: "Item. I give to my two sons, namely, John and Jacob Kittredge, all my lands and buildings in Andover aforesaid, excepting the land I gave to my son Thomas aforesaid, which
buildings consist of dwelling-houses, barns, corn-house, gristmill, and cider-mill, all of every denomination ; also, all my live
stock of cattle, horses, sheep and swine, and all my husbandry.
utensils of every denomination, and all my tools that may be
useful for tending the mills aforesaid; and also all my bonds
and notes of hand and book accounts, together with what
money I may leave at my decease; and my wearing apparel, I

212

SUPREME

COURT.

Abbott et ux. v. Essex Company.

give the same to my said sons, John and Jacob Kittredge, to
be equally divided between them; and in consideration of what
I have given my said soils, John and Jacob Kittredge, the executor of this testament, hereinafter named, is hereby ordered
to see that all my just debts and funeral charges, together with
all the legacies in this will mentioned, be paid out of that part
of my estate I have given to my two sons, John and Jacob Kittredge, to whom I give each one bed and bedding.
"Item. It is my will, that if either of my said sons, namely,
John and Jacob Kittredge, should happen to die without any
lawful heirs of their own, then the share of him who may first
decease shall accrue to the other survivor and his heirs."
On the trial, the demandants requested the court to instruct
the jury, "that John and Jacob took the real estate therein devised in .equal moieties of an estate tail general, with crossremainders in fee-simple." But the court. instructed the jury,
"that the testator's said sons, John and Jacob, took an estate in
fee-simple, and that the share of the one of the sons, who
should first die without issue, in the lifetime of the other, should,
in that event, go over to the other son, by way of executory de
vise." To this instruction the plaintiffs excepted, and now contend 1. That the testator, by the first clause of his will, gave to
John and Jacob an estate for life only.
2. That the next clause of the will enlarges the estate for life
to an estate-tail in each of the two sons, and, by the use of such
language, the testator intended an indefinite failure of issue.
The defendants; on the contrary, maintain that, independent
of the last clause, by which the estate is given over, the sons
took a fee-simple. And, secondly, that the clear intention of the
testator is, that both real and personal estate should pass on a
definite contingency, namely, the decease of one brother without
issue in the lifetime of the other.
There is, perhaps, no point of testamentary construction which
has undergone such frequent discussion, and is so fruitful in cases
not easily reconciled, as that now brought under our consideration. This has arisen, in a great measure, from the discrepancy between the popular acceptation of the phrases, "if he die
without issue," "in default of issue," and similar expressions,
from the established legal acceptation of them in courts of justice. It is often necessary to construe these expressions as conveying an estate tail by implication, in order to carry out the
evident general intent of the testator. Such is, or ought to be,
the object of all rules of interpretation ; but court rules, however
convenient in the disposition of cases where the intention is
doubtful, cannot claim to be absolute or of universal application.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

213

Abbott et ux. v. Essex Company.

Hence it has been said, "that courts have been astute to defeat
the application of this rule of construction, harsh in itself, and
often producing results contrary to the testator's intention." If
wills were always drawn by counsel learned in the law, it would
be highly proper that courts should rigidly adhere to precedents,
because every such instrument might justly be presumed to have
been drawn with reference to them. But, in a country where,
from necessity or choice, every man acts as his own scrivener, his
will is subject to be perverted by the application of rules of construction of which he was wholly ignorant.
The rule laid down in Purefoy v. Rogers, 2 Saund. 388, "that
where a contingency is limited to depend on an estate of freehold which is capable of supporting a remainder, it shall never
be construed to be an executory devise," has been received and
adopted in Massachusetts.
In England, and in some of the States here, it has been abolished by legislative interposition, as harsh and injuriouS. This
rule, however, has never been construed, either in England or
this country, to include cases where the title of the first taker is.
a fee-simple, and the contingency is definite.
In the case of Pells v. Brown, Cro. Jac. 590, where there was
a devise "to A in fee,'and, if he die without issue living, then
C shall have the land," it was held to be an executory devise to
C, on the contingency of A dying in the lifetime of C without
issue. There is no necessary conflict between this case and that
of Purefoy v. Rogers. It is true, also, that this rule has been
applied where the first taker had an estate in fee; and it is conceded, "that, unless there are expressions or circumstances from.
which it can be collected that these words, ' without issue,' are
used in a more confined sense, they are to have their legal sense
of an indefinite failure of issue" ; but whenever such "expressions or circumstances" show the intention of the testator that
the estate is to go over only on a definite contingency, courts
will give effect to such intention. Notwithstanding the expressions in Plunket v. Holmes, Sid. 47, derogatory of the case of
Pells v. Brown, it has always been considered "a leading case,
and the foundation of this branch of the law." See Williams's
Saunders, 388, b, in note.
In Porter v. Bradley, 3 T. R. 143, where lands were devised to
A and his heirs, and if he die leaving no issue behind him, then
over, it was decided that the limitation over was good by way
of executory devise; and Lord Kenyon acknowledges the case
of Pells v. Brown to be "the foundation and mag,-¢ charta of
this branch of the law," deciding that the words, "leaving no
issue behind him," showed clearly that the testator did not contemplate an indefinite failure of issue.

214

SUPREME COURT.
Abbott et ux. v. Essex Company.

In the case of Roe v. Jeffery, 7 T. R. 589, where the devise
was to "A and his heirs, and in case he should depart this life
and leave no issue, then to B, C, and D, and the survivor or survivors of them, share and share alike," it was held that the devise
to B, G,and D was a good executory devise. In delivering the
opinion of the court in that case, Lord Kenyon observes: "This
is a question of construction, depending on the intention of the
party; and nothing can be clearer than if an estate be given to
A in fee, and by way of an executory devise, an estate be given
over, which may take place within a life or lives in being, &c.,
the latter is good by way of executory devise. The question,
therefore, in this and similar cases is, whether, from the whole
context of the will, we can collect when an estate is given to A
and his heirs forever, but if he die without issue, then over, the
testator meant without issue living at the death of the first taker.
The rule was settled as long ago as in the reign of James I., in
the case of Pells v. Brown. That case has never been questioned or shaken, and is considered as a cardinal point on this
head of the law."
Without referring to any more of the numerous English and
American cases brought to our notice by the learned counsel, of
like tenor, it will be sufficient to notice the case of Richardson
v. Noyes, 2 Mass. 56. There the devise was "to my three sons,
A, B, and C, all my other lands, &c.; also my will is, that if
either of them should die without children, the survivor or survivors of them to hold the interest or share of each or any of
them so dying without children as aforesaid" ; and it was held
to pass an estate in fee-simple, determinable on the contingency
of either of them dying without issue, and vesting by way of
executory devise. See also the case of Ray v. Enslen, 2 Mass.
554. These cases fully adopt the principles of the English cases
we have just referred to. The case of Parker v. Parker, 5 Mete.
134, has been quoted as containing a contrary doctrine; but it
does not appear that the question of definite or indefinite failure
of issue was made by the counsel or adverted to by the court in
the decision.
Our inquiry must be, therefore, from an examination of the
whole context of this will: 1. Whether, independent of the second clause, by which the
estate is limited over, the sons took an estate in fee-simple or
only a life estate; and,
2. Whether he intended to give over the share of each son to
the other, on the contingency of his death, without issue living at
the thne of hi.- decease. or upon an indefinite failure of issue.
first clause of the
1. There are no words of ii.hritance, in thlu
devise, to .h.', and Jacob: but such words are not ah'-olutely

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

215

Abbo'tt et ux. v. Essex Company.

necessary in a will to the gift of a fee. The subject of this devise
is described as "that part of my estate." The word "estate,"
or "that part of my estate," has always been construed to describe not only the land devised, but the whole interest of the
testator in the subject of the devise; thus, a devise of "my
estate, consisting of thirty acres of land, situate, &c.," will carry
a fee. Moreover, the legacy given for the maintenance of Sarah
Devinny, "to be paid out of that part of my estate given to John
and Jacob," would be defeated by their death before she arrived
at the age of eighteen, if the devise to them was a life estate
only. The intention of a testator must be drawn from the whole
context of his will. And it is not necessary to look alone at the
words of the gift itself to ascertain the intention of the testator
as to the quantum of the estate devised, if it can be gathered,
from expressions used in any part of it, what he supposed or
intended to be the nature and extent of it. It will not admit
of a doubt, also, that the testator intended that both of his sons
should have the same estate in the devised premises, which were
" to be equally divided between them." John is charged personally, in respect of the estate given him, with the payment of
all the debts and legacies. The testator calls it the "consideration" to be paid for that part of his estate given to his two sons ;
and though John was appointed executor, whose duty it became,
as such, to see to the payment of the debts and legacies, the
charges are to be paid by him at all events out of the estate devised to him and Jacob, and not out of the rents and profits
only. By their acceptance of the devise, they became personally
liable. In such cases, it is well settled that the devisee takes a
fee, without words of inheritance.
On this point, therefore, we are of opinion that John and Jacob
each took a fee in their respective "share" or moiety of the estate devised to them.
2. It remains to consider the effect of the second clause of the
will, which is in these words: "It is my will, that, if either of
my said sons, namely, John or Jacob, should happen to die without any lawful heirs of their own, then the share of him who may
first decease shall accrue to the other survivor and his heirs."
Viewing this clause free from the confusion of mind produced
by the numerous conflicting decisions of courts, and untrammelled by artificial rules of construction, we think that no two
minds could differ as to the clear intention of the testator. By
"lawful heirs of their own," he evidently meant lineal descendants or "1issue."

The contingency contemplated is as definite as language can
make it -" if either son should happen to die without heirs of
their own during the life of the other."

216

SUPREMKE

COURT.

Abbott et ux. v. Essex Company.

The person to take, on the happening of this contingency, is
precisely described - "the other survivor." It is true, that cases
may be found which decide that the term "survivor" does not
of itself necessarily import a definite failure of issue, and no
doubt there are many cases where it would be necessary to disregard the obvious import of this term, in order to carry out the
general intent of a testator, otherwise apparent; but a large
number of English, and nearly all the American, cases acknowledge the force of this term as evidence of the testator's intending
a definite contingency. The other words of this clause, connected with it, clearly describe a definite contingency, and the
individual who is to take on its happening: "the share of him
who shall first decease without heirs shall accrue to the other
survivor"; -on the death of one, the other is to take-a definite
contingency and a definite individual.
Again, it is the " share," or the estate previously given, not of
him who dies without issue, generally, but of him who may first
decease, that is given over to the other survivor. This "share"
also consisted of personal and real property. As to the former,
the testator could certainly not mean an indefinite failure of
issue, yet both, personalty and realty, are within the same category, and, as one "share," they are subject to the same contingency. It is said to be a rule of construction, that the words
" dying without issue," will be construed to mean "an indefinite
failure of issue" as to real estate; but with regard to personalty,
it shall be taken to mean "a failure at the death." There are
several cases to this effect. Lord Kenyon, in speaking of them
in Roe v. Jeffrey, very justly remarks that "the distinction taken
in Forth v. Chapman, 1 P. Wms. 663, that the very same words
in a will should receive one construction when applied to one
portion of the devise, and another construction as applied to
Without making
another, is not reconcilable with reason."
an array of cases, we may state that many of the English, and
nearly all the American cases, seem to concur in the truth and
force of this observation; and consider a "share" of an estate,
consisting of both realty and personalty, given over on a contingency to the "survivor," as clear evidence that the testator did
not intend an indefinite failure of issue. A rule of construction
which would give different meanings to the same words, in the
same sentence, could only be tolerated where, from the whole
context of the will, it is evident that without such construction
the general intent of the testator as to the disposition of his
realty would be frustrated.
Lastly, construing this clause as providing for an indefinite
failure of issue, and as vesting each of the sons with an estate
tail by implication, the survivor would take an estate in fee-

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

217

McLaughlin v. Swann et al.

simple in his brother's share, while he had an estate in tail in his
own; a result most improbable, which could hardly have been
contemplated by the testator, and which ought not to be imputed to him without clear expressions indicating such an intention.
On the whole, we are of opinion that the instructions given
to the jury by the court below are correct, and that the judgment
should be affirmed.

PATRICK MCLAUGHLIN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JAMES SWANN AND
JOHN S. GiTTINGS, GARNISHEES OF THE CHESAPEAKE AND

OHIO

CANAL COMPANY.*
The attachment law of Maryland allows an attachment by way of execution to be
issued upon a judgment and levied upon the credits (inter ala) of the defendant.
Where an attachment of this nature was laid in the hands of garnishees who were
trustees, and it appeared that, after performing the trust, there was a balance in
their hands due to the defendant, the attachment will bind this balance.
The defendant might have brought an action to recover it, and wherever he can do
this, the fund is liable to be attached.
A bill filed in the court of chancery by another creditor against the garnishees and the
defendant, filed after the laying of the attachment, and the opinion and decree of"
the chancellor thereon, do not change the rights of the plaintiff in the attachment.
The decree was passed without prejudice to his rights. If these things were made
evidence by consent in the court below, it does not so appear in the bill of exceptions.
Whatever legal or equitable defences the garnishees might have set up in an action
brought against them by the defendant to recover the balance in their hands, can be
set up, by bill of interpleader or otherwise, against the plaintiff in the attachment.
The different modes of presenting these legal and equitable defences in different states
referred to.

THis case was brought up by writ of error from the circuit
court of the United States, for the District of Maryland.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
The instructions given by the circuit court to the jury, and
which were excepted to by the plaintiff, were as follows: And the court directed the jury that the plaintiff was not entitled to recover, and their verdict must be for the defendants :
1. Because the rights of the parties claiming as cestui que
trusts, under the deed of April 15, 1840, and the rights of those
claiming an interest in the surplus after the cestui que trusts are
satisfied, cannot be adjusted and determined in the proceeding
*Mr. Chief Justice TANEY was prevented by sickness from taking his seat on the
bench, at the present term, until the 4th of February, and was not present when this
case was argued and decided in this court.
VOL. xvIIL.
19

