136

SUPREME

COURT.

Savignac v. Garrison.

ALFRED SAVIGNAC, PLAINTIFF IN FROR, V. ABRAHAM GARRISON.
The act of congress passed on the 13th of June, 1812, confirmed the titles to out-lots

in the town of St. Louis, in Missouri, upon certain conditions, and the act of 26th
of Mfay, 1824, required the performance of these conditions, and the boundaries of
the lot to be proved before the recorder of land titles.
Whether the lot and conditions came within the purview of the act of 1812 were questions of fact for the jury. The neglect to procure the survey and location under the
act of 1824 did not forfeit the title acquired under the act of 1812.
The case of Guitard et al. v. Stoddard, 16 How. 494, controls this case.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the circuit
court of the United States for the district of Missouri.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by 1r. Baxter, for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Ewing, for defendant.
The decision of the court being that the case of Guitard et
al. v. Stoddard controls this one with respect to the instructions
given by the court below, it is not thought advisable to report
the arguments of counsel, which covered tie whole case.
M1r. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit court of the United States
for the district of Missouri.
The plaintiff below, Garrison, brought an action of ejectment
against Savignac, to recover the possession of a lot of land in
the city of St. Louis, claiming title derived from the confirmation of Mordecai Bell's Spanish claim by the act of congress
of 1835.
The defendant claimed title to the lot under the 1st section
of the act of 13th of June, 1812, which provided " that the
rights, titles, and claims to town or village lots, out-lots, common field lots, and commons, in, adjoining, and belonging to the
several towns or villages, (enumerating several, of which St.
Louis was one,) which lots have been inhabited, cultivated, or
possessed prior to the 20th December, 1803, shall be, and tile
same is hereby confirmed to the inhabitants of the respective
towns or villages, according to their several right or rights in
common thereto."
Evidence was given on the trial, by the defendant, deducing
a title or claim to the lot in question, derived from Charles
Simoneau, and also evidence tending to prove that the lot was
an out-lot within the purview of the act of 1812, and that
Simoneau was in possession and cultivation of it prior to the
20th December, 1803.

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

137

Parker et al. v. Overman.

After the testimony closed, the court instructed the jury that
"there was no evidence that Simoneau cultivated any out-lot or
common-field lot; nor that any one existed at the place where
the cultivation was; nor had the act of 1812 application to this
land, so far as Simoneau, or those claiming under him, are concerned. And further, that if there had existed an out-lot or common-field lot, undefined by boundaries, which was claimed on the
ground of inhabitation, cultivation, or possession, then the act of
the 26th May, 1824, required that the fact of inhabitation, cultivation, or possession, and the boundaries and extent of such
claim, should be proved before the recorder of land titles, to enable the surveyor-general to distinguish the private from the
vacant lots. And no steps having been taken under the act of
1824, nor any authoritative location or survey of the land, at any
time, either under the Spanish government or the government of
the United States, the evidence given in this case will not enable
the defendant to resist a recovery by the plaintiff."
The case of Guitard et al. v. Stoddard, 16 How. 494, decided
since this case was tried at the circuit, disposes of both branches
of the instructions to which we have referred, holding that
whether or not the lot, and the inhabitation, cultivation, or possession thereof came withini the purview of the act of 1812, were
questions of fact for the jury; and that the neglect to procure
the sukvey and location, under the act of 1824, did not operate
to impair or forfeit the title acquired under that of 1812.
As the judgment of the court below must be reversed for
errors in the instructions referred to, it is unimportant to take
notice of any other questions raised on the trial or in the argument.
Judgment reversed, and venire de novo to issue.

ROBERT A. PARKER AND
TJA

MILES WHITE, APPELLANTS, v. WIrOVERMAN.

A statute of Arkansas directs, that, where lands are sold by a sheriff, or other public
officer, the purchaser is authorized to institute proceedings in a court, calling upon
all persons to come in and show cause why the sale should not be cohfirmed.
Such a proceeding, when instituted in a state court and removed into the circuit court,
conformably to the act of congress, constitutes a case over which this court will take
jurisdiction.
In such petition for removal, it is not enough to allege that the petitioners were residents in another state. They must allege that they were citizens.
The statute makes the deed sufficient evidence of the authority, the description, and
the price. The term "sufficient," is equivalent to *rinufacie.
before aI certain
Before the sheriff can assess land, he is required to file an affidavit
12*

