106

SUPREME COURT.
Sessions et al. v. Pintard.

and the ancillary administrator directed which of these courses to
pursue, he is in no default, and his surety is not liable.

RICHARD H. SESSIONS, DANIEL H. SESSIONS, AND SANDFORD 0.
FAULKNER, APPELLANTS, V. JOHN M. PINTARD.
Where there was a decree in the court below for the payment of a certain sum of
money, (land being held as security,) from which decree an appeal was taken, the
sureties upon the appeal bond are not entitled to a pro rata credit upon their responsibility, the land having proved insufficient to pay the amount of the decree.
The entire proceeds of the sale of the land must be deducted from the amount of the
decree, and the sureties upon the appeal bond must be responsible for the balance.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the eastern district of Arkansas.
It was a sequel to the case of Goodloe's Administrator v. Pintard, decided in this court and reported in 12 How. 24. The
subsequent proceedings are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was submitted on printed argument by 31r. Pike, for the
plaintiffs in error, and argued by Mr. Carlisle and 1r. Crittenden, for the defendants.
Hr. Pike stated the question which arose in the case in this
way:The question in the case may be very briefly stated thus:
Where, in a suit to enforce a lien on land for time purchasemoney due the vendor, there is a decree ascertaining the amount
due by the vendee, and recognizing the lien, and ordering payment or sale of the land, and, on appeal from this decree, sureties enter into a bond conditioned to prosecute the appeal with
effect and make good all damages and costs, how far does the
land stand as their security ? If, when it is sold, the amount decreed, with interest, is more than the penalty of their bond, and
the land sells for less than the penalty, in what way are the proceeds to be applied ? Shall they be credited upon the aggregate
of the decree, perhaps leaving the sureties to pay the whole penalty, or against the penalty, or proportionally against the penalty
and the excess over it ?
The condition of the bond was to prosecute the appeal with
effect, and pay all damages and costs in case of failure to make
the appeal good. The damages were the interest which accrued
between the dates of the decree against Goodloe and the judgment against the bail, amounting to less than $ 7,000. This

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

107

Sessions et al. v. Pintard.

should have been the extent of the recovery, and not the
penalty of $12,000.
The surety who pays money for the principal is entitled
the securities which the plaintiff has for the debt. Union
of Maryland v. Edwards, 2 Gill & Johnson, 353; 7 Serg.
9; 3Serg. &R. 309; 10J. R. 524; 2 J. Cas. 227; 2 J.
554.

whole
to all
Bank
& R.
0.R.

The counsel for Pintard contended that the credits had been
properly applied and given.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.This is an appeal from the circuit court of the eastern district
of Arkansas.
Pintard, on the 10th of April, 1847, obtained a decree against
Archibald Goodloe for 8 10,552, with ten per cent interest per
annum on the amount decreed. There was also an order that a
certain tract of land should be sold, and the proceeds applied to
the payment of the decree.
An appeal was taken from this decree to this court, by which
the decree was affirmed. On the 20th of February, 1852, Pintard commenced au action against Sessions and others on the
appeal bond, and at April term, 1853, obtained a judgment on
the bond for the penalty thereof; amounting to the sum of
$12,000.
At the same time, Pintard procured an order for the sale of
the land specified in the decree, which was sold on the 15th of
November, 1852, for the sum of $ 8,025, which, after paying the
expense of the sale, left a balance of $ 7,525 as a credit on said
decree, as of the 15th of November, 1852. The interest, with the
sum decreed, up to that period, amounted to 8 16,877. The proceeds of the sale of the land being deducted from this sum, leaves
a balance on the decree of $8,912, with interest from the 17th
day of April, 1858. The interest on this sum, up to the time
judgment was rendered on the appeal bond, makes the sum of
$ 9,283, as the amount to be collected on the judgment.
Ai execution was issued on the judgment the 14th of May,
1853, for $12,000 with an indorsement of a credit of 8 2,717.
This execution was levied on a number of slaves, of the value
of $12,000, as the property of Sessions, the defendant. A. delivery bond was taken for the slaves, with Daniel H. Sessions as
security; but the slaves not being delivered on the day of the
sale, an execution was issued against principal and surety on the
delivery bond.
At this stage of the proceedings, a bill was filed by the appellants, complaining that the distribution which had been made

SUPREME

COURT.

Sessions et al. v. Pintard.

of the proceeds of the sale of the land was inequitable, and that
such proceeds should be credited on the judgment entered upon
the appeal bond, pro rata, and not exclusively on the decree;
and the complainants pray that Pintard may be decreed to enter
a credit upon the judgment as aforesaid, as of its date, for the
sum of $5,323.35; and that a perpetual injunction might be
granted to prevent him from collecting any more than the residue of the judgment, after deducting the above sum.
A temporary injunction was granted, Pintard filed his answer,
and, upon the final hearing, the injunction was dissolved and the
bill dismissed, at the costs of the complainants. From this decree an appeal was taken, and that brings the case before us.
The complainants in their bill allege no fraud nor mistake, as
a ground of relief. They claim that the money received under
the decree for the sale of the land shall be applied, pro rata, in
the discharge of the judgment against them, and the balance of
the decree which remains after deducting the judgment. This
would give to them a credit on the judgment of $ 5,724 ; and
that Pintard, in claiming the whole amount of the judgment,
seeks to recover from them $ 3,568.99 more than in equity he is
entitled to.
This claim of the appellants rests upon the. ground that there
was a lien on the land sold by the original decree, which operated as an inducement to them to become sureties on the appeal
bond. The land, by the original decree, was directed to be sold;
consequently, the proceeds of the sale could be applied only in
discharge of the decree. On what ground could the appellants
claim a pro rata distribution of this fund ? They were bound
to the extent of the penalty of their bond, on which a judgment
was entered. They had a direct interest in the application of
the proceeds of the land to the payment of the original decree,
including the interest and costs; and so much as such payment reduced the original decree below the amount of the
judgment against them, they were entitled to a credit on the
judgment. The judgment has been so made, and the credit
entered, and beyond this they have no claim, either equitable or
legal.
In the argument, a subrogation of the land or its proceeds, for
the benefit of complainants, is urged; but on what known principle of equity does not satisfactorily appear. Had the appellants paid the decree in full, they might have claimed a control
over the land decreed to be sold, or its proceeds. They made no
payment, but assert a general equity to have the find applied,
pro rata, on their judgment. This would leave a large amount
of the original decree unsatisfied. On what ground could Pintard be subjected to such a loss? He looked to the laud and

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

109

Curtis et al. v. Petitpain et al.

the surety on the appeal bond, which more than covered his decree, including interest and cost.
The condition of the appeal bond was "for the prosecution
of said appeal to effect, and to answer all damages and costs,
if" there should be a failure to make the plea good in the supreme court. There was a failure to do this, and the penalty
of the bond was incurred. Whatever hardship may be in this
case is common to all sureties who incur responsibility and have
money to pay. Beyond that of a faithful application of the
proceeds of the land in payment of the decree, the appellants
have no equity. They cannot place themselves in the relation
of two creditors having claims on a common fund, which may
be distributed pro rata between them. Pintard has a claim on
both funds; first, on the proceeds of the land, and second, on
the judgment entered on the appeal bond for the satisfaction of
the original decree.
The decree of the circuit court is affirmed, with costs.

Louis CURTIS, BENJAMIN

CURTIS, JOHN L. HUBBARD, JAMES
D. B. CURTIS, AND HENRY A. BOORAINE, PLAINTIFFS IN ER-

ROR, V. MADAME THERESE PETITPAIN, WIFE OF VICTOR
FESTE, AND MANDERVILLE MARIGNY) LATE UNITED STATES

MARSHAL FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Where the record contains only an agreed statement of facts, it is not in conformity
with the eleventh and thirty-first rules of this court, and the case will be dismissed.
Where different; parties claimed a fund in the hands of the marshal, which had
arisen from sales under an execution, a judgment of the circuit court on rules
as to whom the money should be paid, is not such a judgment as can be re-examined
in this court.

Tins case was brought up by writ of error from the circuit
court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
It is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Hr. Taylor, for the plaintiffs in error, and
Mr.Benjamin for the defendants.
The point of practice, upon which the case went off,
raised by ilfr. Benjamin, who contended that the transcript
not such a complete record as was requh'ed by the 11th
31st rules of court.
The points made relating to the merits of the cause
omitted.

was
was
and
are

Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
VOL. XVII.

10

