DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

507

McMicken v. Perin.

laws of the State, from which the executor or administrator
derives his authority to act, must prevail, as well in the federal
as in the state tribunals. Citizens of other States, possibly,
cannot be prevented from suing in the federal courts in order to
establish their demands; yet the effect of the judgment, its lien,
or other operation upon the assets of the deceased, must be
absolutely controlled by the local law; otherwise the conflict of
jurisdictions would be irreconcilable and disastrous. And such
it is believed is the well-established doctrine of this and all
other courts. Story's Conflict of Laws, 3d ed. ยง 521. Williams
v. Benedict, 8 How. Sup. C. R. 107. McGill v. Armour, 11
How. Sup. C. R. 142."
But we do not deem it necessary to discuss them in detail,
for the law of a State limiting the remedies of its citizens in its
own courts cannot be applied to prevent the citizens of other
States from suing in the courts of the United States in that
State for the recovery of any property or money there, to which
they may be legally or equitably entitled. This principle was fully
discussed, and decided by this court in the case of Suydam v.
Brodnax, and others, 14 Pet. 67. We refer to the reasoning in
support of it given in that case without repeating it, or thinking it necessary to add anything on this occasion. It concludes
this case.
And it is our opinion, under the circumstances and the
testimony in this case, that the surplus in the hands of the
defendants must be applied to the payment of the judgment of
the complainant in preference to any claim which has been
asserted to it for the heirs at law or distributees of the intestate,
Jolly. We reverse the decree of the court below, and shall
remand the case with directions to that court for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

CHARLES

McMICKEN,

APPELLANT, v. FRANKLIN PERIN.

A purchase of an interest in property by an attorney, made after judgment has been
obtained, is not forbidden by the laws of Louisiana.
And where money is borrowed to make the purchase, the lender of the money is
estopped from pleading illegality in the purchase, and thus retaining the prop'ervf
which had been conveyed to himself as security for the loan.
In the contract between him and the borrower there was no illegality.
No objections to a master's report can be made which were not taken before the
master; nor after a decree pro confesso can a defendant go before the master without
a special order, but the accounts are to be taken ex purte.
An appeal will not lie from the refusal of a court to open a former decree, nor have
the circuit eourts power to set aside their decrees in equity, on motion, after tue
term at n uit they were rendered.

508

SUPREME COURT.
McMicken v. Perin.

Tins was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr.Henderson, for the appellant, and Ar.
Smiley, for the appellee.
Mr. Hfenderson made the following points: 1. That the decree validates a void purchase of a litigious
right.
2. That the complainant's alleged title was void by the Louisiana statute of champerty.
3. That no loan of money and no resulting trust is shown.
4. There is no express trust in writing shown, though such
trust is averred.
5. That the amount admitted by the bill and exhibits to be
due to the defendant on the purchase was not allowed him in
the decree.
6. That Mary Perin was not made a party to the bill,
though her interest in one half of the property in controversy
was shown.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee (Perin) filed his bill in the circuit court, alleging
that he had been employed to institute suits in the courts of
Louisiana, on behalf of certain persons claiming to be the heirs
of James Fletcher, for which service he was to receive fifty
per cent on the money value, or a fee equal to one half the net
value of the property, real or personal, in controversy. Pending
the suits his clients offered to sell their interest to him for
$5,000, or to other persons for $10,000. There were some
negotiations upon this subject, but nothing seems to have been
concluded until after the final judgment had been rendered;
after that time, the bill proceeds to state as follows: "That, upon the said proposition being renewed, the complainant addressed divers letters to the defendant, asking for a
loan of $5,000 for the purpose of purchasing the said interest
of the Fletchers in and to the said property; and that, in reply
to the complainant's said letters, the defendant answered in
writing, giving a promise of said loan," as will appear by the
exhibits C and D; one of which was written by the defendant
on the 8th of September, 1848, nearly three months after the
judgment for the land had become final and executory.
"And your orator further shows unto your honors that, relying on the promises and the honesty of the defendant, and
upon the understanding and agreement with him, the complainant purchased the said property of tie said Fletcher, on

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

509

M cticken v. Perin.

the 19th of October, 1848, while the defendant was absent in
Cincinnati; and in order to secure the said MeMicken in the
loan of the said 85,000, the complainant caused the title of the
said property to be made out in the name of the defendant,
with the express condition that the purchase was made in the
name of the defendant for the use and benefit of the complainant, all of which will appear by reference to the act of sale,
marked exhibit F; to the letter of the complainant to the defendant, dated on the 19th of October, 1848, accompanying a copy of
the act of sale sent to the defendant, marked exhibit G" and other
proofs to be hereafter exhibited. That said defendant accepted
the said sale, &c., took the said property, &c., and held the same
in trust for the use of complainant, and upon no other condition
or understanding, subject only to the repayment of the money
advanced for the purchase thereof."
The bill avers that the plaintiff being thus invested with all
the legal and equitable rights of the heirs of Fletcher, he tendered to the defendant (McMicken) immediately after his ratification of the sale, the sum of five thousand and fifty dollars,
with the proper interest due thereon, and demanded a conveyance of all the said property and rights so purchased and
held in trust, which the defendant refused.
The bill charges certain fraudulent pretexts on the part of
McMicken for withholding the deed according to his agreement,
denies their validity, and affirms that the plaintiff has been
forced into a court of chancery in consequence of the repeated
refusals of the defendant to deliver up his property and convey
the same to him.
The bill prays that the defendant may by the order and
decree of the court, be required to convey the said property to
the plaintiff upon the payment or tender to the said defendant
of the amount of his advances, and for general relief.
A decree pro confesso was entered at the spring term of the
circuit court, 1853, and at the same term of the court in 1854 a
decree was rendered requiring the defendant to convey the
property specified in the bill to the plaintiff, upon the payment
to the said defendant of the debt reported to be due within six
months after the date of the decree.
It is objected in this court that the arrangement between the
heirs of Fletcher and his attorney, (Perin,) by which the latter
became the purchaser of their interest in the subject of the
litigation he had been conducting in their behalf, was illegal,
and he could take no benefit from his contract. The articles
of the code of Louisiana affecting this question are as follows:
art. 2623, " a right is said to be litigious whenever there exists
a suit and conte-tation d)out the same" : art. 3522, No. 22,
15*

510

SUPREME

COURT.

McMicken v. Perin.

"litigious rights are those which cannot be exercised without
undergoing a lawsuit"; art. 2624, "public officers connected
with courts of justice, such as judges, advocates, attorneys,
clerks, and sheriffs, cannot purchase litigious rights which fall
under the jurisdiction of the tribunal in which they exercise
their functions, under penalty of nullity and of having to defray
all costs, damages, and interest."
The courts of Louisiana have decided "that where a judgment has been rendered litigation has ceased." Marshall v.
McRae, 2 Ann. 79. And when the thing ceded is not contested
and is not the subject of a suit at the time of cession, the thing
is not litigious. Provost v. Johnson, 9 Mart. 184. The bill
charges that the purchase was made after a final judgment had
been rendered, declaring the property to belong to the heirs
of Fletcher. The subject of the sale was ascertained, the title
recognized, and consequently none of the mischiefs which occasioned these articles could then follow. Such is the conclusion of the commentators and courts of France upon the
corresponding articles in the code Napoleon. Trop. de Vente,
ยง 201; 39 Dall. part 2, 196.
But upon well-established principles the appellant is estopped
from contesting the title of the appellee. The case made is
that the appellee borrowed of the appellant a sum of money to
complete his purchase, and that the title was placed in the
name of the appellant to secure the repayment of that advance.
The latter cannot be heard to object that there was illegality
in the contract between Fletcher's heirs and the appellee, nor
to appropriate to himself the fruit of that contract. The contract between the appellee and appellant is uninfected by any
illegality.
The consideration was a loan of money upon a security.
The contract between Fletcher's heirs and the appellee is completed and closed, and will not be disturbed by anything
which the court may decree in this case. McBlair v. Gibbes,
17 How. 232.
The appellant further objects that his- debt was not accurately
ascertained by the master upon the decree of reference. In Story
v. Livingston, 13 Pet. 359, this court decided that no objections
to a master's report can be made which were not taken before
the master; the object being to save time, and to give him an
opportunity to correct his errors and reconsider his opinion.
And in Heyn v. Heyn, 4 Jacob. 47, it was decided that after a
decree pro confesso, the defendant is not at liberty to go before the
master without a special order, but the accounts are to be taken
ex parte. This court will not review a master's report upou
objections taken here for the first time.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

511

Maxwell v. Newbold et al.

Our conclusion is, there is no error in the final decree, rendered in the circuit court.
At a subsequent term, the appellant filed a petition in the
circuit court, alleging that he had been deceived by the appellee
in reference to the prosecution of the bill, and had consequently
failed to make any appearance or answer, and that lie had a
meritorious defence.
He prayed the court to set aside the decree, and to allow him
to file an answer to the bill. This petition was dismissed. We
concur in the judgment of the circuit court as to the propriety
of this course. This court, in Brockett v. Brockett, 2 How.
238, determined that an appeal would not lie from the refusal
of a court to open a former decree, though the petition in that
case was filed during the term at which the decree was entered.
In Cameron v. McRoberts, 3 Wheat. 591, it decided that the
circuit courts have no power to set aside their decrees in equity
on motion after the term at which they were rendered.
These decisions are conclusive of the questions raised upon
the order dismissing the petition.
The decrees of the circuit court are affirmed, with costs.

JOSHUA

MAXWELL AND HENRY N. WALKER, PLAINTIFFS
ERROR, v. ALEXANDER H. NEWBOLD AND OTHERS.

IN

In order to give jurisdiction to this court, under the 25th section of the judiciary act of 1789, it must appear by the record that one of the questions stated
in the section did arise, and was decided in the state court; and it is not sufficient
that it might have arisen or been applicable; it must appear that it did arise, and
was applied.
This rule was established in the case of Crowell v. Randall, 10 Pet. 368, and has been
since adhered to.
Hence an allegation that "the charge of the court, the verdict of the jury, and the
judgment below are each against. and in conflict with, the constitution and laws of
the United States, and therefore erroneous," is too general and indefinite to come
within the provisions of the act of congress or the decisions of this court.
The clause in the constitution and the law of congress should have been specified by
the plaintiffs in error in the state court, in order that this court might see what was
the right claimed by them, and whether it was denied to them by the decision of the
state court.

THIS case was brought up from the supreme court of the
State of fichigan, by a writ of error, issued under the 25th
section of the judiciary act.
The facts are fully set forth in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Jfr. Lawrence and Mr. Haven, for the

"

