SUPREME

COURT.

Mackey et al. v. Coxe.

with independence and good faith; and no matter whose acts
may be brought before him, whether those of his immediate
superior or one much higher in power, he is bound to bring them
all to the test of the law, and to pronounce upon all, from the
greatest to the least, by one inflexible rule,- the rule of duty;
and surely, when an appeal is made to tribunals of justice, they
should recognize no standard but that of the law itself.
My opinion is, that the decision of the circuit court should be
reversed, and judgment entered for the plaintiffs.

THE UNITED STATES, USE OF JAMES MACKEY ET AL. PLAINTIFFS
IN ERROR, V. RICHARD S. COXE.
Administrators upon an estate who were appointed in the Cherokee nation had a right
to maintain a suit or prosecute a claim for money in the District of Columbia, and
a payment to a person acting under a power of attorney from them would have
been valid.
But where this person, instead of receiving the money under his power of attorney,
took out letters of administration in the District of Columbia, and then signed a
receipt as attorney for money paid by himselfas administrator to himself as attorney
for the Cherokee administrators, this receipt is good, and the surety upon his administration bond is not responsible to the Cherokee heirs.
The Cherokee nation are so far under the protection of the laws of the United States,
that they may be considered, for the purposes above named, as a State or territory
of the United States.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error, from the circuit
court
for the District of Columbia, holden
andofforthe
theUnited
countyStates
of Washington.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Chitton, for the plaintiffs in error, and
by H. Carlisle and Hr. Bradley, for the defendant.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit court for the District of
Columbia.
The action was brought against the defendant as surety in
the administration bond of Austin J. Raines, administrator of
Samuel Mackey, late of the Cherokee nation.
Raines received from James Mackey, Joseph Talley, and Preston T. Mackey, as administrators of Samuel Mackey, deceased,
a power of attorney for them and in their names to petition
the congress of the United States to settle and release the claim
of the United States against the said Samuel Mackey, deceased,
as principal, and John Drenner, Lewis Evans, and Hiro T.
Wilson, as securities; and after the passage of any law in rela-

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

101

Mackey et al. v. Coxe.

tion to said claim by congress, to receive all moneys that may be
due the estate of the said Mackey, deceased, from the treasurer
of the United States, and full receipts, acquittances, and relinquishments thereof to make in their name ; and further, to adjust
and settle with the treasurer of the United States, or other officars of the government, all other claims of said Mackey against
the United States, and to receive all moneys due from the United
States to said Mackey on any account whatever.
Raines came to Washington and procured a settlement of
the accounts between the government and Samuel Mackey, deceased; but the treasury department refused to pay him the
balance due Mackey upon the power of attorney, and required
him to take out letters of administration. He thereupon applied to the orphans' court of the county of Washington, in the
District of Columbia, for letters of administration, which were
granted upon his executing bond, with the defendant and James
Reeside as sureties. He then received from the treasury the sum
of $ 10,513.05, out of which he paid the expense of administration, and for the balance he executed the following receipt : "7th July, 1841. Received of Austin J. Raines, administrator of Samuel Mackey, deceased, the sum of ten thousand five
hundred and thirteen dollars and five cents, being the amount
due to the representatives next of kin and distributees of said
Samuel Mackey, from said administrator.

Signed,

JAAIES MACKEY,
JOSEPH TALLEY,
PRESTON T. MACKEY.

By their attorney in fact, A. J. RAINES."
Reeside, the co-obligor in the administration bond, having
died several years ago, the process was served only on the defendant.
The declaration contained several counts, stating that the
said Samuel Mackey died intestate, leaving Sarah Mackey, his
widow, and James Mackey, Preston T. Mackey, William Mackey,
George Mackey, Nancy Talley, wife of Joseph Talley, and Corine
Mackey, all being citizens of the Cherokee natioh, and that, by
the laws of said Cherokee nation, the widow and children were
distributees of the deceased.
The defendant filed a general plea of performance, on which'
issue was joined.
On the trial before the jury, among other prayers for instruction was the following: "If the jury find from the evidence
that Austin J. Raines, as administrator of Samuel Mackey, deceased, received from the treasury of the United States the sum
of $10,518.05, and after deducting the expenses of administration there remained in his hands the clear sum of $ 10,505.201,
9*

102

SUPREME COURT.
Mackey et al. v. Coxe.

and no debts of said deceased are shown payable by said administrator; and James Mackey, Joseph Talley, and Preston T.
Mackey were the original administrators of said Samuel Mackey,
under the laws of the Cherokee nation, the burden of proof is
on the defendant to show that said Raines paid said sum of
8 10,505.202- to said James Mackey, Joseph Talley, and Preston
T. Mackey, or the survivors of them; and although the jury
may find that the paper offered in evidence, purporting to be a
power of attorney from said James Mackey, Joseph Talley, and
Preston T. Mackey to said Raines is genuine, yet the said
Raines had no authority to receipt for said parties by himself, as
their attorney in fact, to himself as administrator, and that such
receipt is not a payment by him as administrator of said parties; and unless such payment be proved otherwise than by
such receipt, the said Raines has not performed the condition
of this bond as administrator of Samuel Mackey, and the said
defendant is liable in this action to the said James Mackey,
Joseph Talley, and Preston T. Mackey, or the survivors of
them, for the said sum of $ 10,505.20-, with interest thereon
from the date when the same was received" ; which instruction
was refused, and to which an exception was taken.
There were other exceptions, but this one presents the material points in the case.
By the treaty made between the United States and the Cherokee nation, dated March 14, 1835, in article 5, the United
States covenanted and agreed that "the lands ceded to the
Cherokee nation in the foregoing article shall, in no future time,
without their consent, be included within the territorial limits
or jurisdiction of any State or territory. But they shall secure
to the Cherokee nation the right of their national councils to
make and carry into effect all such laws as they may deem
necessary for the government and protection of the persons and
property within their own country belonging to their people, or
such persons as have connected themselves with them: provided
always, that they shall not be inconsistent with the constitution
of the United States, and such acts of congress as have been
or may be passed regulating trade and intercourse with the
Indians," &c.
The Cherokees are governed by their own laws. As a people,
they are more advanced in civilization than the other Indian
tribes, with the exception, perhaps, of the Choctaws. By the
national council their laws are enacted, approved by their executive, and carried into effect through an organized judiciary.
Under a law " relative to estates and administrators," letters of
administration were granted to the persons above named on the
estate of Samuel Mackey, deceased, by the probate court, with

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

103

Mackey et al. v. Coxe.

as much regularity and responsibilities as letters of administration are granted by the state courts of the Union.
This organization is not only under the sanction of the
general government, but it guarantees their independence, subject to the restriction that their laws shall be consistent with
the constitution of the United States, and acts of congress which
regulate trade and intercourse with the Indians. And whenever
congress shall, make provision on the subject, the Cherokee
nation shall be entitled to a delegate in the national legislature.
It is refreshing to see the surviving remnants of the races
which once inhabited and roamed over this vast country as
their hunting-grounds, and as the undisputed proprietors of
the soil, exchanging their erratic habits for the blessings of civilization.
A question has been suggested whether the Cherokee people
should be considered or treated as a foreign State or territory.
The fact that they are under the constitution of the Union, and
subject to acts of congress regulating trade, is a sufficient
answer to the suggestion. They are not only within our jurisdiction, but the faith of the nation is pledged for their protection.
In some respects they bear the same relation to the federal
government as a territory did in its second grade of government,
under the ordinance of 1787. Such territory passed its own
laws, subject to the approval of congress, and its inhabitants
were subject to the constitution and acts of congress. The
principal difference consists in the fact that the Cherokees enact
their own laws, under the restriction stated, appoint their own
officers, and pay $their own expenses. This, however, is no
reason why the laws and proceedings of the Cherokee territory,
so far as relates to rights claimed under them, should not be
placed upon the same footing as other territories in the Union.
It is not a foreign, but a domestic territory,-a territory which
originated under our constitution and laws.
By the 11th section of the act of 24th of June, 1812, it is
provided "that it shall be lawful for any person or persons to
whom letters testamentary or of administration hath been or
may hereafter be granted, by the proper authority in any of the
United States or the territories thereof, to maintain any suit or
action, and to prosecute and recover any claim in the District
of Columbia, in the same manner as if the letters testamentary
or administration had been granted in the District. Under this
law the money due to Mackey might have been paid, and,
indeed, should have been paid, to Raines, the attorney in fact
of the administrators of Mackey. But, through abundant caution, letters of administration were required to be taken out in
this District, as a prerequisite to the payment of the money by
the treasury department.

104

SUPREME COURT.
Mfackey et al. v. Coxe.

No question could arise as to the validity of the Cherokee
law under which letters of administration were granted on the
estate of Mackey, and as the power of attorney given by the
administrators to Raines seems to have been duly authenticated
and proved, a payment to the administrator, by the government,
would have been a legal payment. The Cherokee country, we
think, may be considered a territory of the United States, within
the act of 1812. In no respect can it be considered a foreign
State or territory, as it is within our jurisdiction and subject to
our laws.
Although an executor or administrator cannot sue in a foreign
court, in virtue of his original letters of administration, yet he
may lawfully, under that administration, receive a debt voluntarily
paid in any other State. Stevens v. Gaylord, 11 Mass. R. 256.
In Doolittle v. Lewis, 7 John. Ch. 49, Chancellor Kent held, that
a voluntary payment to a foreign executor or administrator was
a good discharge of the debt. Shultz v. Pulver, 3 Paige, 182;
Hooker v. Olmstead, 6 Pick. 481.
This suit is brought in the name of the surviving administrators of Mackey and of the distributees. Regularly, an action
by the distributees could not be sustained, unless an application
had been made to the orphans' court in this District to order a
distribution, and authorize or direct the administrator, Raines, to
pay the same. This administration being ancillary to that of
the domicile of the deceased, the distribution would be governed
by the law of the domicile.
There appears to have been no creditors, of the estate of
Mackey, in the District of Columbia, and letters of administration were obtained here, as necessary under the decision of the
treasury department. This object being accomplished, and the
costs of the administration paid, Raines, as agent of the administrators of the domicile, receipted for the money in their behalf, under the power of attorney from the administrators. And
the question arises, whether this discharges the defendant as
surety on the administration bond of Raines.
Under the power of attorney he was authorized to receiVe all
moneys that may be due the estate of Mackey from the treasurer
of the United States, and receipt for the same. He received
and receipted for the money as administrator in this District,
and then executed a receipt to himself as agent, under the
power of attorney as agent for the administrators.
Under the circumstances, it would be a hardship fraught with
injustice, to hold the defendant liable as surety on the adiniistration bond. Raines was the confidential agent of the administrators of Mackey - the money was placed in his hands,
under full authority to receive it. It has nevor been paid over,

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

105

Mackey et al. v. Coxe.

it is said, by reason of the bursting of a boiler, by which Raines
lost his life and the money which he had received. But whether
this be true or not, the money went into the hands of Raines,
who was the agent of the administrators, duly authorized to receive it; and we think, under the peculiar circumstances of the
case, the defendant was thereby discharged. Whether for the
payment of creditors or distribution among the heirs, the domicile of the deceased was the place to which the money should be
transmitted. It would add to the conditions of the administration bond, to hold the defendant responsible for the safe transmission of the money, after it was placed in the hands of the agent
of the administrators.
Had the receipt of Raines been duly filed and acted upon, in
the court of probate, his surety on his administration bond would
have been discharged. The action of the probate court only is
wanting, but we think such action was not essential, and that the
equity of the case is equally clear without it. The parties are
estopped from denying the agency of Raines.
In Vaughan v.Northup et al., 15 Pet. 6, this court say: " The
debts due from the government of the United States have no
locality at the seat of government. The United States, in their
sovereign capacity, have no particular place of domicile, but possess in contemplation of law an ubiquity throughout the Union ;
and the debts due by them are not to be treated like the debts of
a private debtor, which constitute local assets in his own domicile
On the contrary, the administrator of a creditor of the government, duly appointed in the State where he was domiciled at the
time of his death, has full authority to receive payment, and give
a full discharge of the debt due to his intestate, in any place
where the government may choose to pay it."
We think there is no error in the ruling of the court, and the
judgment of the circuit court is therefore affirmed.
Justices NELSON and CURTIS stated that they concurred in
the decision of the court to affirm the judgment of the circuit
court, upon the ground that, as no final account had been settled
by the administrator in the orphans' court, and no order had been
made by that court, either directing the administrator to pay the
balance in his hands to the principal administrators, for distribution by them, or directing a distribution to be made here, there
was no breach of the bond. That this being an ancillary administration, it depended upon the discretion of the orphans'
court, which granted it, whether the money, remaining in the
hands of the ancillary administrator, after the satisfaction of all
claims in this jurisdiction, should be distributed here, by the
ancillary administrator, or remitted to the principal administrators for distribution; and until that discretion shall be exercised,

106

SUPREME COURT.
Sessions et al. v. Pintard.

and the ancillary administrator directed which of these courses to
pursue, he is in no default, and his surety is not liable.

RICHARD H. SESSIONS, DANIEL H. SESSIONS, AND SANDFORD 0.
FAULKNER, APPELLANTS, V. JOHN M. PINTARD.
Where there was a decree in the court below for the payment of a certain sum of
money, (land being held as security,) from which decree an appeal was taken, the
sureties upon the appeal bond are not entitled to a pro rata credit upon their responsibility, the land having proved insufficient to pay the amount of the decree.
The entire proceeds of the sale of the land must be deducted from the amount of the
decree, and the sureties upon the appeal bond must be responsible for the balance.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the eastern district of Arkansas.
It was a sequel to the case of Goodloe's Administrator v. Pintard, decided in this court and reported in 12 How. 24. The
subsequent proceedings are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was submitted on printed argument by 31r. Pike, for the
plaintiffs in error, and argued by Mr. Carlisle and 1r. Crittenden, for the defendants.
Hr. Pike stated the question which arose in the case in this
way:The question in the case may be very briefly stated thus:
Where, in a suit to enforce a lien on land for time purchasemoney due the vendor, there is a decree ascertaining the amount
due by the vendee, and recognizing the lien, and ordering payment or sale of the land, and, on appeal from this decree, sureties enter into a bond conditioned to prosecute the appeal with
effect and make good all damages and costs, how far does the
land stand as their security ? If, when it is sold, the amount decreed, with interest, is more than the penalty of their bond, and
the land sells for less than the penalty, in what way are the proceeds to be applied ? Shall they be credited upon the aggregate
of the decree, perhaps leaving the sureties to pay the whole penalty, or against the penalty, or proportionally against the penalty
and the excess over it ?
The condition of the bond was to prosecute the appeal with
effect, and pay all damages and costs in case of failure to make
the appeal good. The damages were the interest which accrued
between the dates of the decree against Goodloe and the judgment against the bail, amounting to less than $ 7,000. This

