150

SUPREME

COURT.

Jones et al. v. Johnston.

WILLIAM JONES AND SYLVESTER MARSH, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,

V. IVILLIAI S. JOHNSTON.
Where reference was made in deeds to'a recorded plat, and in an ejectment suit, evidence was offered to show that this plat differed from the original plat, the evidence
ought not to have been admitted. If a error existed, the proper remedy was in
chancery to reform the deeds.
And where the deeds under which both parties claimed, referred to this plat, it was of
no consequence, whether or not the plat was recorded precisely according to the
requisitions of a statute of the state.
The true rule for the jury would have been to ascertain whether the lot claimed by
the plaintiff had any water front at the time the deed, under which he claimed was
executed, and not whether it had a water front at the time when the lot was originally laid out.
In case it should be found that the lot in question was entitled to a water front at the
time of the execution of the deed to the plaintiff, then the rule adopted by the court
below for dividing the made ground, was not a correct rule.
The true rule pointed out.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States, for the District of Illinois.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court, but it is difficult for the reader to understand the points, unless with the
assistance of an explanatory map. Many of these were used
during the argument, but the sketch here presented may convey
some idea of the locality.
-0

0

ACO
Lot in

N
0 o

controversy

From A to B'North Pier.
From C to D South Pier.

Johnston, who brought the ejectment in the court below, was
the owner of lot No. 34. Jones and Marsh claimed that lot
No. 35 was entitled to the whole benefit of the alluvion. There

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

151

Jones et al. v. Johnston.

were three trials in the court below, the last of which resulted in
a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff as follows: Beginning at a point on the line between lots thirty-four and
thirty-five, in Kinzie's addition to Chicago, Cook county, Illinois,
three hundred feet southerly of the south line of North Water
street, measuring on that line for distance ; thence south, eleven
degrees and thirty minutes, east, one hundred and thirty-five feet,
to the north pier; thence eaiterly along the north pier to the
shore of Lake Mfiehigan; thence northwardly along the Lake
shore two hundred and twenty-two feet; thence westerly in a
straight line to the place of beginning.
The instructions given to the jury by the circuit court are
stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Hfr. Scammon and MTr. .Tohnston, for the
plaintifl in error, and by l-lr. Lawrence and MAr. Chiase, for the
defendant.
On the trial in the circuit court, the coilnsel for the defendant
made twelve prayers to the court; some oT which were granted,
others with reservations and qualifications. The counsel for the
plaintiff made seven prayers, which were qualified in the same
way ; and then the court gave other instructions to the jury of
its own accord. The arguments of counsel in this court discussed
all these points; and it would not be possible to explain them,
without giving too extended a statement of all the points.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit court of the United States
for the district of Illinois.
The suit below, was an action of ejectment, brought by Tohnston, against Jones and Marsh, to recover a tract of alluvial land
in the city of Chicago, formed in Lake Michigan, adjoining the
north pier of Chicago harbor, and which is claimed as an accretion to water-lot No. 84, in Kinzie's addition. The defendant,
Jones, is owner of lot. No. 35, in said addition, lying east, and
adjoining 84, and between that and the lake.
Both parties claim under Robert A. Kinzie, the patentee of the
north fractional section 10, in township 39, which was situate in
the bend of the Chicago River, at its mouth, and bounded southerly by that river, and easterly by the Michigan Lake.# Kinzie,
the patentee, in February, 1833, laid out an addition to the town
of Chicago upon this fractional section, and made a plat of the
same, which was recorded in the recorder's office of the county,
on the 18th of January, 1834, according to the requirements of
the laws of the State of Illinois. On this plat, lot No. 84 is one
of a series of water-lots, bounded on the south side of North

152

SUPREME

COURT.

Jones et al. v. Johnston.

Water street, sixty feet, asI its northerly boundary, and is included within lines dropped from the fixed corners on that street
at right angles with the same, and extended until they intersect
the lake shore. Lot No. 35 is the next lot east, of the same
width, on Water street, and extended in like manner to the lake,
its west line being the east line of 34.
On the 25th of February, 1833, R. A. Kinzie conveyed to
John H. Kinzie several lots in this addition, and among others
lot No. 35. And on the 1st September, 1834, John H. conveyed
the same to Jones, the defendant, describing it in the deed as in
Kinzie's addition, and as "being water-lot No. 35," &c., "agreeably to the town plat, recorded in the office of the recorder of
the said county of Cook, to which reference may be had if
necessary."
On the 22d of October, 1835, R. A. Kinzie conveyed to Johnston, the plaintiff, lot No. 34, describing it as lying in Kinzie's
addition, and known as water-lot No. 34, "as will more fully
appear, reference beijg had to said plat as recorded in the recorder's office of the town of Chicago, in the county of Cook,"
&c.
In the summer of 1833, the general government commenced
the construction of the harbor of the city of Chicago, which is
formed by an erection of two piers across this fractional section
10, from the curve of the Chicago River, as it takes a direction
southerly to the lake, and for a considerable distance into the
lake, the effect of which was to turn the river from its sweep
southerly across the sand-bar to the waters of the lake between
the two piers, and thus opening a passage for vessels into the
town.
The south pier was built in 1833, and the north in 1834. The
harbor thus constructed, divided several of the lots in Kinzie's
addition that bounded on Water street, east and west, and, among
others, as is claimed by the defendant, No. 34, leaving a part of'
it as originally laid out, south of the harbor.
Since the construction of the harbor and extension of the
piers into the waters of the lake, the shore above, or north of
the piers, has greatly changed, the firm land having increased
by the washing up of sand and earth, and the recession of the
waters to the extent of some twelve hundred feet in width, and
for a considerable distance in length northward along the shore.
The present suit is brought to recover a portion of this alluvion
or new-formed land, as an increment or accession to lot No. 34.
The plaintiff claims that a part of its southern termination on
the lake was north of the piers, and contiguous to the newformed land, and therefore entitled to its share of the increment.
The defendant contends that no part of its boundary was on

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

153

Jones et al. v. Johnston.

the lake north of the harbor, and therefore no part connected
with or adjoining this land newly formed. On the contrary, that
part of his own lot, No. 85, which lies between 34 and the lake,
was bounded on the lake south of the north pier, and hence cut
off No. 34 from any lortion of the alluvial accession.
Tile plaintiff insisted, on the trial, that the plat of Kinzie's
addition, as recorded in the recorder's office in January, 1834,
was incorrect, and produced what was claimed to be the original,
but which was not recorded when the conveyances of the lots
in question were executed. According to this original plat, as
the side lines were laid down, lot No. 84 appeared to be partially bounded on the lake north of the harbor. In this respect,
it differed, from the plat recorded; as, according to the side lines
as there extended, its entire boundary on the lake was south of
the harbor.
. In laying out the addition by the surveyor in 1833, the only
lines of the lots run out or measured on the ground were those
butting on Water street, the north lines of the lots. The* side
lines depend upon their protraction on the .plat of the addition;
and which, as we have already said, were formed by dropping
them at right angles from the corners on Water street, and extending them till they intersected the lake. And even the lake
shore, as laid down on the plat - as appears from the testimony
of the surveyor - was ascertained without survey or measurement, and with little more accuracy than could be obtained from
the eye..
The case was a good deal embarrassed on the trial, arising out
of the evidence in respect to this original plat, and some consideration and effect were given to it by the court in submitting
it to the jury. We think the court erred in admitting it as evidence to control, or in any way to affect, the recorded plat.
Both lots in controversy were conveyed with express reference
'to that, and without such reference there is not a sufficient
description given in the deeds of the boundaries to admit of a
location of either.
If there was in fact any error or mistake in this reference, by
way of description of the premises conveyed, the remedy was in
chancery to reform the deed. So long as that remained unreformed, the description of the lot by the reference to the recorded
plat was conclusive upon the parties.
The acts of the State of Illinois regulating the laying out of
town-lots, and the recording of the plats of the same, were supposed by the court below to have a bearing upon the questions
involved, and influenced the instructions given and refused to the
jury. It seemed to be admitted that the plat recorded did .not
conform in all respects to the requirement of the statutes.

154

SUPREME COURT.
Jones et al. v. Johnston.

But it is not pretended that the omission in any way operated
to invalidate the deeds, or affect prejudicially the rights of the
parties under them. Both parties stand upon the same footing
in this respect, as each claims under the same survey of the town,
and by reference to the same plat. We do not perceive that these
acts of the State have any material bearing upon the case, and
should not have been allowed to influence the trial. If the description in the deeds was sufficiently certain, by a reference to
the plat on record, to identify and locate the lots, the title
passed to the grantees, whether the plat conformed to the acts of
the legislature or not. This is all that was material so far as the
plat is concerned.
The court, in instructing the jury, observed that the controversy turned upon the length of the line dividing lot 34 from 35,
before the north pier was constructed -that whether in point of
fact it touched the shore of the lake before it reached the pier, or
the place where the pier was; in other words, whether there was
any water-line of lot 34 north of the north pier, and if so, what
was the extent of the water-line.
Again, the court charged, after adverting to the recorded plat,
and to the question whether or not it was made in conformity to
the statutes of Illinois, that, if the jury should find the plat was
not so made and recorded, then they should determine, under all
the evidence in the case, whether or not, prior to the construction
of the north pier, the dividing line between lots 34 and 35
touched the water at a point north of where the north pier was
subsequently placed; if it did, then the court was of opinion that
the owner of 34 had a right to follow the water as the accretions
were formed on his water-line.
In these instructions we think the court erred.
As we have seen, this lot No. 34 was conveyed to the plaintiff
the 22d October, 1835, and described as included within side
lines dropped at right angles from the northwest and northeast
corners on Water street, which were sixty feet apart, and fixed,
and extended in right lines till they intersected the shore of the
lake below. The boundaries, therefore, including and locating
the lot were specific and complete. Tile north boundary was
marked on the south side of Water street; the side lines extended according to the plat at right angles from Water street
to the lake; the lake was the southern boundary which closed the
lines of the lot.
Now, in order to determine what land was conveyed to the
plaintiff by his deed of 22d October, 1835, all that was necessary was to locate the lot upon the ground in conformity to the
desgription at that date. The calls in the deed having reference
to the plat, furnished the necessary data for the location. There

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

155

Jones et al. v. Johnston.

was the fixed line north on the ground, the lake, a natural object
south, and the lot enclosed between two lines extending at right
angles from the corners on Water street to the lake.
If the call for the southern boundary, instead of being a lake,
which is a shifting line, had been a permanent object, such as a
street or wall, there could not be two opinions as to the location.
And yet the water-line, though it may gradually and imperceptibly change, is just as fixed a boundary in the eye of the law as
I speak not now of sudden and considerable
the former.
changes, which are governed by different principles.
The court below, as appears from the instructions referred to,
assumed that lot No. 34 should be located on the ground as of
the time of the survey and plat of February, 1833, some two
years and nine months previous to the conveyance to the plaintiff, and not at the date of that conveyance; and if at that time
the dividing line between 34 and 35 would strike the lake north
of where the north pier of the harbor was subsequently built, so
as to give a like boundary at that time above the pier, the plaintiff would be enabled to take under his deed not only lot 34, as
laid down on the plat, but all subsequent accretions by alluvion
or dereliction, Whatever might be the extent of the new-formed
land. By the like assumption and process of reasoning, if the
present plaintiff should convey the lot with the same specific
boundaries, the north line sixty feet on Water street, and side
lines extending at right angles to the lake, the deed would carry
with it the whole of the new-made land outside the lines of the
deed which is now in dispute -it being a tract from one hundred and thirty to two hundred and twenty-two feet one way,
and some twelve hundred the other.
Now, one answer to this assumption is, that a grantee can
acquire by his deed only the lands described in it by metes and
bounds, and with sufficient certainty to enable a person of
reasonable skill to locate it, and cannot acquire lands outside of
the description by way of appurtenance or accession.
Lord Coke says: "A thing corporeal cannot properly be appurtenant to a thing corporeal, nor a thing incorporeal to a thing
incorporeal." Coke Litt. 121, B.
And this court in Harris et al. v. Elliot, 10 Pet. 54, after
approving of the maxim of Coke, observed, that, according to
this rule, land cannot be appurtenant to land. In the case of
Jackson v. Hathaway, 15 Johns. R. 454, the court say, a mere
easement may, without express words pass, as an incident to
the principal object of the grant; but it would be absurd to
allow the fee of one piece of land not mentioned in the deed to
pass as appurtenant to another distinct parcel which is expressly
granted by precise and definite boundaries. See also 7 Mass. 6.

156

SUPREME

COURT.

Jones et al. v. Johnston.

Land gained from the sea either by alluvion or dereliction, it
the same be by little and little, by small and imperceptible degrees, belongs to the owner of the land adjoining. 2 Bl. Com.
261-2. If, therefore, the rule be as supposed by the court below,
that the boundaries of lot 84 must be taken as it would have
been located at the time of the plat, and the southern limit to
stop at the water-line as it then existed, and the subsequent gain
by alluvion or dereliction to pass as appurtenant to the land
conveyed, the grantee would find it difficult upon this construction to reach the lake at all. Certainly he could not, if the
water-line as it then existed is to be deemed the southern limit
as described in his deed, provided alluvial accretions had taken
place between the survey and plat and the date of the deed.
The land thus formed belonged to the adjoining owner for the
time being, and we have seen that the deed would not pass it as
appurtenant or incidental to the land granted.
But the true answer to the position assumed, and which
governed the trial below, is, that the water boundary on the lake
is to be deemed the true southern boundary of the lot at the date
of the conveyance, as much so as North Water street was its
northern boundary. And the plaintiff is carried by his deed to
it, not because of the alluvial deposit, if any, between the waterline at the time of the survey and plat and the line at the date
of the deed, having passed as appurtenant to the lot, but because
one of the calls given in the deed requires that the side lines
should be thus extended. Any alluvial accretions since the deed
belong to the plaintiff as owner of the adjoining land. Any past
accretions belonged to the then owner, and whoever sets up a
title to them must show a deed of the same as in the case of
any other description of land.
The case of Robert M. Lamb v. Thomas C. Rickets, 11 Ohio,
811, exemplifies the principle for which we are contending. The
defendant had agreed to convey a piece of land called the
Hamlin lot, containing forty-two acres more or less, and also
two other small lots of ten acres, with a proviso if the Hamlin
lot and the two others contained more than fifty-two acres the
excess was reserved. The defendant conveyed the Hamlin lot,
and refused to convey the other two. A bill was filed to compel
a conveyance. The Hamlin lot was bounded by one of its lines
on the bank of the Tuscarawas River, and had been originally
conveyed to the defendant, and by him to the plaintiff, as containing forty-two acres more or less.
The defence set up to the bill was, that before the defendant
conveyed the lot to the plaintiff large accessions had been made
from the river to the lot, and that these alluvial formations made
up the quantity of fifty-two acres.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

157

Jones et al. v. Johnston.

The Plaintiff claimed that the quantity should be determined
dccording to the old boundary of the lot upon the bank of the
river, wbich would be but some forty-two acres. But the court
held that the question was, not as the bank of the river was
twenty-five or thirty years ago, but as it was-when the Hamlin
tract was conveyed to the plaintiff, and estimated the quantity
of land conveyed accordingly.
The case of Giraud's Lessee v. Hughes et al. 1 Gill & Johnson, 249, asserts a similar principle. There Gist's inspection, a
grant as early as 1732, was bounded by one of its lines in the
waters of the Patapsco River, afterwards a basin of Baltimore;
the lines, however, were given in the grant by courses and distances, and did not call for the river. Hughes held under this
grant by deed in 1782.
Before 1812, the waters of the Patapsco had gradually receded, and formed a body of firm land, which had been surveyed
and patented by the State to the plaintiff. The question was,
whether or not Hughes was entitled to this alluvial deposit as
the adjoining owner to the river. It was not doubted by the
counsel or court but that, if the grant of Gist's inspection had
been bounded on the river, this boundary of the tract would
have included the land made by the recession of the water; and
the court even held, that as the original location of the tract
extended into the river, it entitled those holding under it to the
land, on the ground that the principle governing these alluvial
accretions gave them to the adjoining owner. In other words,
the description in the original grant gave, in legal effect, to the
grantee, a water boundary; and if so, the boundary included the
accretions.
The jury, therefore, in this case, should have been directed to
inquire whether or not, at the time of the deed to the plaintiff,
lot No. 34 had a water-line upon the lake north of the north pier
of the Chicago harbor; -in other words, whether the line between that lot and No. 35 struck the shore of the lake before it
reached this pier. If it did, then the question would properly
arise in respect to its right to a share of the alluvial accretions
formed since that period. If it did not, then no question of the
kind could arise in the case.
We think the court also erred in the rule laid down to govern
the jury in the division of the new-made land. That was, the
jury should ascertain the extent of the water-line of 34 btween
the piers and the point where the line dividing 34 and 35
touched the water. They should also ascertain the extent of
the water-line of the fraction of land south of North Water
street and east of 35, and also of 35 to the point dividing 34
and 35; they would then have the plaintiffs' and the defendant's
14
VOL. xviII.

158

SUPREME

COURT.

Griffith et al. v. Bogert et al.

front on the lake. They must then ascertain the front on the
lake shore, as it at present exists, and divide that into as many
equal parts as there are feet on the old shore from North Water
street to the piers, and give to each of the parties as many of
these parts as he had feet on the old shore, and then draw a
straight line from the point of division on the old lake shore
to the point thus determined as the point of division on the
present one.
We do not perceive why North Water street should have been
adopted as the northern limit upon the old shore, as the basis in
making the division, as it appears from the evidence and maps
that the alluvial accretions extended much farther north. The
northern limit on the old shore should have been carried as far
as the new-made land extended, as each riparian proprietor was
entitled to his proper share, and it was essential that the entire
line be regarded, in order that each might obtain his proportional
part. Neither do we perceive any reason for excluding the pier
shore of the lake - that is, the shore along the line of the piers
- from measurement, in ascertaining the extent of the newly
made shore. If we disregard the artificial construction which
occasioned the accretions, the lake there is as much new shore
as any other portion of it, and should have been taken into the
estimate.
As no question was made below whether or not the alluvial
accretions in question were formed under such circumstances as
gave to adjoining owners a title to them, we do not intend to
express any opinion upon that question.
The judgment of the court below is reversed, with directions
that a venire de novo issue.

JOSIAH SIDDONS GRIFFITH, J.AbIES S. CHEW, AND MARY E. CHEW,
HIS WIFE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN B. BOGERT, ABRAHAM
"IYER, AND THADDEUS SMITH.
The law of Missouri allows the lands of a deceased debtor to be sold under execution, but prohibits it from being done until after the expiration of eighteen months
from the date of the letters of administration upon his estate.
Where the letters of administration were dated on the 1st of November, 1819, and the
sale took place on the 1st of May, 1821, the sale was valid. In this case the terminus a quo should be included.
Moreover, the sale was ordered to take place on that day by a court of competent
jurisdiction, and this makes the matter Tern judicatam, ind is evidence of the constraction which the courts of Missouri place upon their laws.
And, besides, the question of the regularity of ajudicial sale cannot be raised collaterally, except in case of fraud, in which the purchaser was a participant.

