DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

135

Guild et al. v. Frontin.

ALBERT H. GUILD AND JOHN F. LIGHTNER, PARTNERS IN TRADE,
UNDER THE FmIRm OF GUILD AND LIGHTNER) AND HENRY
HUGG AND ROBERT G. HANNA, PARTNERS IN TRADE, UNDER
THE STYLE AND FIR
OF HENRY HUGG AND Co.1 PLAIN-

TIFFS IN ERROR, v. JOSEPH FRONTIN.
Where a trial by jury is waived in the court below, and there is no special verdict or
agreed statement of facts or bill of exception upon a point of law, this court cannot review the judkment of the court below.
But having jurisdiction of the cause, and no error appearing upon the face of the
record, the judgment will be affirmed.

TIs case was brought up by writ of error from the district court
of the United States for the northern district of California.
The point of practice involved in it is stated in the opinion of
the court.
It was argued by Mr. Blair,for the plaintiffs in error, and submitted on a printed brief by Mr. Cutting-, for the defendant.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The record and proceedings in this case are in conformity with
the practice of the state courts of California. It was tried without
the intervention of a jury, and the testimony, together with the
opinion of the court, filed of record. But there is no special
verdict, or agreed statement of facts, on which the judgment was
rendered; nor is there any bill of exceptions, sealed by the court,
to their, decision on any question of law. We are, in fact, called
upon to review the case on the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony,
as if it were a bill in chancery. Our very frequent decisions on
this subject seem not to have come to the knowledge of the bar
in the court below. Parties may, by consent, waive the trial of
issues of fact by a jury, and submit the trial of both facts and
law to the court. It will not be a mistrial. But if they wish
the judgment of the court to be reviewed on a writ of error, a
special verdict or agreed statement of facts nust be put on record.
The issues of fact must be ascertained, and made certain, before
a court of error can review the decision of an inferior court. If
the verdict do not find all the issues, or the agreed statement in
the nature of a special verdict be imperfect or incomplete, this
court may order a venire de novo, because of the mistrial, as in
the case of Graham v. Bayne, ante, p. 60, at this term. But
having jurisdiction of the cause, and no error appearing on the
face of the record, the judgment of the court below must be
affirmed.
The case of Prentice v. Zane, 8 How. 470, is directly in point
on this subject.

