SUPREME

COURT.

Jones et al. v. League.

by most civilized governments. The Malek Adhel, 2 How.
233-4, and cases there cited. Our opinion is, that so mhch of
this law as appears by the record to have been applied to this
case by the court below, is not repugnant to the clause in the
constitution of the United States which confers on congress
power to regulate commerce.
It was also suggested, that it is repugnant to the second section of the third article, which declares that the judicial power
of the United States shall extend to all cases of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction. But we consider it to have been settled
by this court, in United States v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 386, that
this clause in the constitution did not affect the jurisdiction, nor
the legislative power of the States, over so much of their territory as lies below high-water mark, save that they parted with
the power so to legislate as to conflict with the admiralty jurisdiction or laws of the United States. As this law conflicts
neither with the admiralty jurisdiction of any court of the
United States conferred by congress, nor with any law of congress whatever, we are of opinion it is not repugnant to this
clause of the constitution. The objection that the law in question contains no provision for an oath on which to found the
warrant of arrest of the vessel, cannot be here maintained. So
far as it rests on the constitution of the State, the objection is
not examinable here, under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act. If rested on that clause in the constitution of the
United States which prohibits the issuing of a warrant but on
probable cause supported by oath, the answer is, that this restrains the issue of warrants only under the laws of the United
States, and has no application to state process. Barron v. Mayor,
&c. of Baltimore, 7 Pet. 248; Lessee of Livingston v. Moore et
al. 7 Pet. 469 ; Fox v. Ohio, 5 How. 410.
The judgment of the circuit court of Maryland in and for
Anne Arundel county is affirmed, with costs.

JONES, JAMES B. WELLS, Jom CHAIN, J6NAs A.
CASTALINE, PHILIP C. PAUL, WILLIAM R. ROBERTS, AND
JAMES W. BYRNE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. THOMAS M.
LEAGUE.

WILLIAM H.

Formerly, it was held, in some of the circuit courts, that the averment of citizenship in
a different State from the one in which the suit was brought, and which it is necessary to make in order to give jurisdiction to the federal courts, must be proved on
the general issue. But the rule now is, that if the defendant disputes the allegation
of citizenship which is made in the declaration, he must so plead in abatement.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

77

Jones et al. v. League.
The change of citizenship from one State to another must be made with a bo d fide
intention of becoming a citizen of the State to which the party removes.
It was not such a bond fide change where the plaintiff only made a short absence, and
it appeared from the deed under which he claimed that he was in fact prosecuting
the suit for the benefit of his grantor, (who could not sue,) receiving a portion of the
land recovered as an equivalent for paying one third of the costs and superintending
the prosecution of the suit.
In such a case, the federal court has no jurisdiction.

THrS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the district
court of the United States for the district of Texas.
It was an action of trespass to try title brought by League
against Jones and the other plaintiffs in error. League averred
himself to be a citizen of Maryland, in his original petition, or
declaration, and claidied title to a tract of land in the county of
Refugio, on St. Joseph's Island, in the State of Texas.
League claimed under a deed made to him on the 11th of
May, 1850, by one John Power, a citizen of Texas, acting for
himself and Hewetson and the representatives of Walker. This
deed contained the following trust, namely: That League would commence the necessary suits to try
title ; that if decided adversely, he would carry the cases to the
supreme court of the United States; that when the litigation
should be finally determined, he would convey two thirds of the
lands recovered to the grantors ; that League should pay one
third of the expenses of litigation heretofore incurred, and all
costs and expenses for the future; that League might make
sales and divide the proceeds in the proportion of one third to
himself and two thirds to the grantors, &c., &c.
The defendants pleaded four pleas in abatement to the jurisdiction of the court. The first plea set forth the substance of
the above deed, and then alleged that Power was, at the time of
the commencement of the suit, a citizen of Texas; that League
was also a citizen of Texas, but went to Maryland for the purpose of setting up a pretence of being a citizen of that State,
and after remaining less than four months in Maryland, he returned to Texas: that it was a fraudulent device to enable him
to bring the suits which Power could not have brought, &e.
The second and third pleas need not be noticed, as no question arose upon them in this court. The fourth alleged that, at
the time of the commencement of the suit, League was a citizen
of the State of Texas.
With respect to the first plea, the plaintiff demurred to it, and
the demurrer was sustained by the court. On the fourth plea, the
plaintiff took issue upon it, and a trial was had, which resulted,
under the instructions of the court, which will presently be mentioned, in a verdict of the jury for the plaintiff. In order to
understand the instructions, it is necessary to say that it was
7*

SUPREME COURT.
Jones et al. v. League.

admitted of record by the plaintiff, for the purposes of the trial,
that he was a citizen of the Republic of Texas from 1838 up to
the time of annexation of the United States; that he remained
domiciled in the State of Texas; and that he was a citizen of
the State of Texas, on the first day of July, A. D. 1850; and he
waived the necessity of proving the above facts.
And thereupon the court instructed the jury, that it is incumbent on the defendants on the issue made to show that the said
plaintiff was a citizen of the State of Texas at the time of filing
the petition in this cause ; that the admission made by the plaintiff as above stated was, in law, presumptive proof that, at the
time of filing the petition, the said plaintiff was a citizen of the
State of Texas; but that on the other hand*the allegation in the
petition, that the plaintiff was, at the time of filing the same, a
citizen of the State of Maryland was primdfacie, or presumptive
proof that he was, as alleged, a citizen of the said State of Maryland at that time: That these two contradictory presumptions,
one arising from the plaintiff's admission, the other from the
allegation in his petition, were equivalent in weight, and counterbalanced or destroyed each other: And that if there was no
other testimony beside the admissions of the plaintiff adduced
on the part of the defendants to show that the said plaintiff was,
at the time of filing the petition, a citizen of the State of Texas,
the jury would on this point find for the plaintiff; to each and
every part of which charge (except the first and second clauses
thereof, to wit: That the burden of proof was upon the defendants, and that the plaintiff's admissions was presumptive
proof of his being a citizen of Texas at the date of filing the
petition) the said defendants by their counsel excepted, and
tender this their first bill of exceptions, which they pray may be
signed, sealed, and made a part of the record in this cause, and
the same is now done accordingly.
[SEAL.]
JOHN C. WATROUS.
January 28, 1854.
Other exceptions were taken in the progress of the trial, but
it is not necessary to notice them.
The case was argued by lir. Hale, for the plaintiffs in error,
and -41r. Hughes, for the defendant. All other points are omitted except the one relating to jurisdiction. This point was
stated by Mr. Hale as follows: The judicial power vested by the constitution extends to
controversies-not merely suits-between citizens of different
States ; and in determining the limits of this power, we are to
look to things, not names. McNutt v. Bland, 2 How. 9. The

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

79

Jones et al. v. League.

true rule as to the matters presented by the plea, is well settled
to be that, when a conveyance is made for a valuable consideration, by a citizen of one State to a citizen of another State, it is
effective to give the right to sue, although the principal motive,
which influenced both parties, may have been a desire to give
jurisdiction to courts of the United States; Smith v. Kernochen,
7 How. 215-217; McDonald v. Smalley, 1 Pet. 623. But the
converse is equally true, that when no valuable consideration
passes, and the grantee receives the legal title for the avowed
purpose of giving jurisdiction to courts of the United States,
while the real party in interest remains a citizen of the same
State as the defendants, then, the court will not permit such a
fraud upon the laws and the policy of the government, but will
look into the transaction, on a plea in abatement, and ascertain
the real party to the suit, without regard to the form of the
conveyance, or of the action. Maxfield's Lessee v. Levy, 2 Dall.
381 ; S. 0. 4 Dall. 330 ; Hurst's Lessee v. Neil, 1 Wash. 0. C.
R. 70-81; Smith v. Kernochen, 7 How. 215-217.
.3Ir. Hghes contended that the court had jurisdiction by the
averments of the petition; and the plea made the deed part of
the plea, by which deed it was shown that League took the
estate for a valuable consideration ; that the instruction of the
court was correct, because as this court had established the rule
in 14 How. 510, that the averment of citizenship in the petition
is prinzd facie evidence of the fact averred, which defendant
must remove by proof, it necessarily followed that the two presumptions counteracted each other, and the jury were constrained to find that the plaintiff was a citizen of Maryland at
the commencement of the action, 9 Wheat. 537.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the district court of the United
States of the district of Texas.
The plaintiff filed his petition in the district court, alleging
that he was seized in fee of a certain tract of land in the county
of Refugio, on St. Joseph's island, in the State of Texas ; beginning, on said island, at the point nearest the Aransas bar;
thence in a northeasterly direction with the sea-shore to the
inlet from the sea into the bay ; thence north forty-five degrees
west to the shore of the bay or lagoon ; thence, with the meanders of the bay, to the place of beginning, containing three and
one-half leagues, be the same more or less. That the defendants entered the same by force, and ejected the plaintiff.
And the petition further represents, that the plaintiff having
possession of several other tracts of lands of which he was

80

SUPREME COURT.
Jones et al. v. League.

seized, the defendants forcibly entered and dispossessed him, &c.;
and the petitioner prayed that after due trial, according to the
forms of law, he may have judgment for his damages aforesaid,
for the recovery of the lands aforesaid.
The defendants plead that the court ought not to take further
cognizance of the action of the plaintiff, because they say that
the plaintiff claims title under and through a pretended indenture, purporting to be made and entered into on the 11th of
May, 1850, by a certain John Power, of the county of Refugio,
and State of Texas, a certain James Hewetson, of the State of
Coahuila, and Republic of Mexico, by his attorney in fact, James
Power; and the said James Power, acting for and in behalf of
the representatives of Duncan S. Walker, deceased, of the one
part, and Thomas Al. League, of the city of Galveston, and
State of Texas, aforesaid, of the other part, but really, and in
law and fact, ohly by the said James Power, of the one part,
and the plaintiff, of the other part; which said indenture purported to convey from James Power unto the plaintiff; his heirs
and assigns forever, the said tracts and parcels of land described
in the petition, and which the plaintiff seeks to recover in this
action.
The said conveyance being made to the plaintiff in trust, for
the following purposes: that the said League should commence
all such suit, or suits, as might be necessary to settle the title to
said lands, in the district court, and, should a decision be made
adversely in said court, that he would prosecute a writ of error
or appeal to the supreme court of the United States; and when
the litigation was finally determined, the said League would
convey two-thirds of the land recovered, in which the title
should be settled, to said Power and Hewetson, and the representatives of the said Walker, and their heirs and assigns ; and,
until such conveyances were made, should hold said lands for
the benefit of said parties; and the plaintiff agreed to pay onethird of the expense of litigation, and the expense before that
time incurred, which it was agreed amounted to one thousand
dollars.
And the defendants allege, that the said Power, at the time
of the conveyance, and for years before and ever since, has been
a citizen of Texas; and that the said plaintiff has resided in
the State of Texas*for twelve years, and is a citizen of that
State. That before commencing suit he went to Maryland and
other States, and remained absent about four months, and on
his return brought this suit as a citizen of Maryland; and that
the said conveyance was colorable, and was made to give jurisdiction to the courts of the United States.
Three other pleas were filed representing that the cqnveyance

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

81

Jones et al. v. League.

was made by Power, a citizen of Texas, and who is the real
plaintiff in the case, to give jurisdiction to the federal courts,
and that League is a nominal plaintiff.
The plaintiff admits, for the purposes of this callse, that the
only legal title which he claims to have to the several tracts of
land in his petition described, is that conveyed to him by James
Power, of the State of Texas.
A demurrer was filed to the first plea, and issues joined as to
the others.
At an early period of this court, it was held in some of the
circuit courts, that the averment of citizenship, to give jurisdiction, must be proved on the general issue. And as a consequence of this view, if at any stage of the cause it appeared that
the plaintiff's averment of citizenship was not true, he failed in
his suit. But it is now held, and has been so held for many
years, that if the defendant disputes the allegation of ditizenship
in the declaration, he must plead the fact in abatement of the
suit; and that this must be done in the order of pleading, as at
common law.
In this case, jurisdiction is claimed by the citizenship of the
parties. The plaintiff avers that he is a citizen of Maryland,
and that the defendants are citizens of Texas.
In one of the pleas, it is averred that the plaintiff lived in
Texas twelve years and upwards, and that, for the purpose of
bringing this suit, he went to the State of Maryland, and was
absent from Texas about four months.
The change of citizenship, even for the purpose of bringing a
suit in the federal court, must be with the bond fide intention
of becoming a citizen of the State to which the party removes.
Nothing short of this can give him a right to sue in the federal
courts, held in the State from whence be removed. If League
was not a citizen of Maryland, his short absence in that State
without a bondfide intention of changing his citizenslip, could
give him no right to prosecute this suit.
But it very clearly appears from the deed of conveyance to the
plaintiff, by Power, that it was only colorable, as the suit was to
be prosecuted for the benefit of the grantor, and the one-third
of the lands to be received by the plaintiff was in consideration
that he should pay one-third of the costs, and superintend the
prosecution of the suit. The owner of a tract of land may convey it in order that the title may be tried in the federal courts,
but the conveyance must be made bond fide, so that the prosecution of the suit shall not be for his benefit.
The judgment of the district court is reversed, for want of
jurisdiction in that court.

