DECEMBER TERM, 1855.
Conner et al. v. Elliott et al.

as it existed at or previous to the proceedings certified, and
hence we are not enabled to express any opinion upon the particular question certified. But the opinion expressed upon the
general question will enable the court below to dispose of the
case, without any amendment of the record, or further hearing
of the case.
The cause is, therefore, remanded to the court below to proceed according to the foregoing opinion.

SUSAN E.
CONNER, WIDOW OF HENRY L.
CONNER, DECEASED,
PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM ST. JOHN ELLIOTT, ADMIN-

ISTRATOR, AND DANIEL W. BRICKLE AND
OF HENRY L. CONNER, DECEASED.

WIFE ET AL., HEIRS

The first clause of the second section of the fourth article of the constitution provides
that "tile citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities
of citizens in the several States."
The court Will not describe and define theseasprivileges
and immunities in a general, 5"
it may come up.
clasification, preferring to decide each case

The law of Louisiana gives a community of acquets or gains between married persons, -2
where the marriage is contracted within the State, or where the marriage is con25,
tracted out of the State, and the parties afterwards go there to live.

The privilege thus conferred upon the wife, does not extend, by virtue of the clause
in the constitution above quoted, to a native-born citizen of Louisiana, who was
married whfi6 under age, in the State of Mississippi, in which State was her domicile together with her husband during the continuance of the marriage. Land in
Louisiana, acquired by the husband during the marriage, was not subject to the
Louisiana Jaw, in respect to the community of acquets or gain.
This right was one which attached to the contract of marriage, which the State of

Louisiana had a right to regulate; and was not one of the personal rights of a
citizen, within the meaning of the constitution.

THIS case was brought up from the supreme court of Louisiana, by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the
judiciary act.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr.Henderson, for the plaintiff in error,
and by Hr. Benjamin, for the defendants.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
In the course of proceedings which were had in Louisiana,
under the laws and in the courts of that State, to determine the
rights of parties interested in the succession of Henry L. Conner, deceased, a citizen of the State of Mississippi, his widow,
who is the plaintiff in error in this case, filed in the district court
of the tenth judicial district of the State of Louisiana, a petition,
claiming to he entitled to her rights of marital community,
as they exist under the laws of that State. These rights having

SUPREME COURT.
Conner et al. v. Elliott et al.

been denied by the district court, an appeal was prosecuted to
the supreme court; and it was there held that inasmuch as the
marriage through which the appellant claimed was not in fact
contracted in Louisiana, nor in contemplation of a matrimonial
domicile in that State, and the spouses had never resided therein;
the wife was not a partner in community with the husband by
force of the laws of Louisiana.
On this writ of error, it neither is nor can be denied that the
supreme court of Louisiana has correctly declared and applied
the law of that State to this case. But it is insisted that this
law deprives the plaintiff in error, a citizen of the State of Mississippi, of one of the privileges of a citizen in the State of
Louisiana, and therefore is in contravention of the first clause
of the second section of the fourth article of the constitution,
which provides that "the citizens of each State shall be entitled
to all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several
States."
It appears upon the record that this question was raised by
the pleadings, and presented to and decided by the highest court
of the State ; it is therefore open here, upon this writ of error,
for final determination by this court, under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act of 1789, 1 Stats. at Large, 85.
It appears that the plaintiff in error, though a native-born
citizen of Louisiana, was married in the State of Mississippi,
while under age, with the consent of her guardian, to a citizen
of the latter State, and that their domicile, during the duration
of their marriage, was in Mississippi. But, while it continued,
the husband acquired a plantation, and other real property, in
Louisiana. If the marriage had been contracted in Louisiana,
the code of that State, then in force, Code of 1808, art. 3, ยง 4,
would have superinduced the rights of community.
And at
the time when the property in question was purchased by the
husband, in 1841, the code of 1825, then in force, contained the
following articles :"Art. 2369. Every marriage contracted in this State superinduces, of right, partnership lr community of acquets or gains, if
there be no stipulation to the"contrary."
"Art. 2370. A marriage contracted out of this State, between
persons who afterwards 6ome here to live, is also subjected to
the community of acquets with respect to such property as is
acquired after their arrival."
And it is insisted that, as these articles gave to what is termed
in the argument a Louisiana widow the right of marital community, the laws of the State could not constitutionally deny,
as it is admitted they did in fact deny, the same rights to all
widows, citizens of the United States, though not married in

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

593

Conner ot al. v. Elliott et al.

Louisiana, or residing there during the marriage, and while the
property in question was acquired.
In other words, that, as the laws of Louisiana provide that a
contract of marriage made in that State, or the residence of persons there in the relation created by marriage, shall give rise to
certain rights on the part of each in property acquired within
that State, by force of the article of the constitution above
recited, all citizens of the United States, wherever married and
residing, obtain the same rights in property acquired in that
State during the marriage. We do not deem it needful to attempt to define the meaning of the word privileges in this clause
of the constitution. It is safer, and more in accordance with
the duty of a judicial tribunal, to leave its meaning to be determined, in each case, upon a view of the particular rights
asserted and denied therein. And especially is this true, when
we are dealing with so broad a provision, involving matters not
only of great delicacy and importance, but which are of such a
character, that any merely abstract definition could scarcely be
correct; and a failure to make it so would certainly produce
mischief.
It is sufficient for this case to say that, according to the express words. and clear meaning of this clause, no privileges are
secured by it, except those which belong to citizenship. Rights,
attached by the law to contracts, by reason of the place where
such contracts are made or executed, wholly irrespective of
the citizenship of the parties to those contracts, cannot be
deemed "privileges of a citizen," within the meaning of the
constitution.
Of that character are the rights now in question. They are
incidents, ingrafted by the law of the State on the contract of
marriage. And, in obedience to that principle of universal jurisprudence, which requires a contract to be governed by the law
of the place where it is made and to be performed, the law of
Louisiana undertakes to control these incidents of a contract of
marriage made within the State by persons domiciled there ;
but leaves such contracts, made elsewhere, to be governed by
the laws of the places where they may be entered into. In this,
there is no departure from any sound principle, and there can be
no just cause of complaint.
The law of the State further provides, that if married persons
come to Louisiana to reside, and acquire property there during
such residence, they shall be deemed nuptial partners in respect
to such property; but if the domicile of the marriage continues
out of Louisiana, the relative rights of the married persons may
be regulated by the laws of the place of such domicile, even in
respect to property acquired by one of them in Louisiana.
50*

594

SUPREME

COURT.

Conner et al. v. Elliott et al.

That the first of these rules, which extends the laws of the State
to married persons coming to reside and acquiring property
therein, is a proper exercise of legislative power, has not been
questioned. But it is insisted that the last, which leaves the
rights of non-resident married persons in respect to property in
Louisiana to be governed by the laws of their domicile, deprives
the wife of her rights as a citizen in property acquired by the
husband during marriage in Louisiana. The answer to this
has been already indicated. The laws of Louisiana affix certain incidents to a contract of marriage there made, or there
partly or wholly executed, not because those who enter into such
contracts are citizens of the State, but because they there make
or perform the contract. And they refuse to affix these incidents
to such contracts, made and executed elsewhere, not because
the married persons are not citizens of Louisiana, but because
their contract being made and performed under the laws of
some other State or country, it is deemed proper not to interfere,
by Louisiana laws, with the relations of married persons out
of that State. Whether persons contracting marriage in Louisiana are citizens of that or some other State, or aliens, the law
equally applies to their contract; and so, whether persons married and domiciled elsewhere, be or be not citizens or aliens, the
law fails to regulate their rights. The law does not discriminate
between citizens of the State and other persons ; it discriminates
between contracts only. Such discrimination has no connection
with the clause in the constitution now in question. If a law
of Louisiana were to give to the partners inter sese certain
peculiar rights, provided they should reside within the State,
and carry on the partnership-trade there, we think it could not
be maintained that all copartners, citizens of the United States,
residing and doing business elsewhere, must have those peculiar
rights by force of the constitution of the United States, any
more than it could be maintained that, because a law of Louisiana gives certain damages on protested bills of exchange, drawn
or indorsed within that State, the same damages must be recoverable on bills drawn elsewhere in favor of citizens of the
United States.
The rights asserted in this case, before the supreme court of
Louisiana, are not privileges of citizenship; consequently, there
is no error in the judgment of that court, which is hereby
affirmed.

