246

SUPREME COURT.
York and Cumberland R. R. Co. v. Myers.

THE YORK AND CUMBERLAND

RAILROAD

COMPANY,

PLAINTIFFS

IN ERROR, V. JOHN G. MYERS.
An original writ has fulfilled its functions when the defendant is brought into court.
If lost, the court can provide, in its discretion, for the filing of a copy.
The equity of the Statute of Westminster 2, allowing bills of exceptions, embraces all
such judgments or opinions of the court that arise in the course of a cause, which
are the subjects of revision by an appellate court, and which do not otherwise ap-i pear on the record.
But to present a question to this court, the subordinate tribunal must ascertain the
facts upon which the judgment or opinion excepted to, is founded.
Therefore, where there was a reference in the circuit court, and the bill of exceptions
set out the objections to the award together with the testimony of the arbitrator who
was examined in open court, and that testimony showed the facts upon which the
objections were founded, it was a suffieient exception.
If an arbitrator embraces in his award matter not submitted, and includes the result
in a single conclusion, so as to render it impossible to separate the matters referred
from those which have not been, the award is bad.
But in this case, the averments in the declaration and asssigument of breaches in the
covenant cover the ground upon which the arbitrator rested his award; and his conclusion is a final decision which this court cannot revise either upon the allegation
of mistakes in law or mistakes in fact.
a

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the circuit

court of the United States for the District of Maine.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mfr. Clifford and Mr. Shepley, for the plaintiffs in error, and Mr. Francis 0. . Smith, for defendant.
With respect to the point that the bill of exceptions was well
taken in this case, the counsel for the plaintiff in error laid down
the following propositions:1. That the bill of exceptions in this case is within the intent
if not within the very letter of the statute ; and therefore it is
insisted that the legal questions herein presented are regularly
within the revisory power of this court.
2. That if it is not strictly speaking a bill of exceptions, it is
at least "an exception in the nature of a bill of exceptions," and
therefore it is insisted that the legal questions are examinable on
a writ of error.
3. That the rulings and determination of the circuit court,
presented for revision are apparent in the record, inasmuch as
they are incorporated into the record of the judgment together
with the facts on which they were applied under the hand and
seal of the circuit judge, and therefore it is insisted that the writ
of error well lies.
In support of the first proposition, they cited and commented
on 4 Bing. (N. 0.) 83, (33 0. L. 283;) 6 Pet. 655 : Co. Litt.
"288 b; 1 Arch. Prac. 530; 1 Bac. Abr. 529 ; 17 How. 6; 1 Halsted, 388 ; 7 Johns. 494.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

247

York and Cumberland R. R. Co. v. Myers.

In support of the second: 16 Pet. 176 ; 7 How. 855, 866.
In support of the third: 7 Cranch, 596; 2 How. 394; 10 Ibid.
190, 329; 17 Ibid. 12; 4 Pet. 206.
They then referred to the course of proceeding in Maine, on
awards of referees made under a rule of court, and cited a number of cases in that and other States.
Upon the main point in the case, they laid down the following propositions : 1. A report or award of referees is wholly void if it includes
damages for a matter not embraced in the submission, unless
the amount improperly included can be ascertained and separated from the residue of the sum awarded. 5 Wheat. 394, and
other cases.
2. Damages in lieu of the reserved stock, and at a valuation
estimated .by the referee, were included in the award; and the
record affords no means whatever of ascertaining what that valuation was, or of ascertaining the amount so included.
3. No claim for the reserved stock, or for damages for nondelivery thereof, was embraced in the declaration, or sued for
in the action; and, as the reference was one of the action
merely, no such claim was submitted to the arbitrament of the
referee.
These propositions led to a very minute examination of the
facts and accounts in the case.
mr. Smith, for defendant in error, made eleven points; but it
is only necessary to state the one upon which the decision of the
court rested :9. The several causes of complaint in the plaintiffs' bill of exceptions and assignment of errors, are in the nature and of the
effect of a motion to set aside the award, and to grant a new
trial, or to recommit the report of the referee; and, under the
rule of court, are, as such, only fit matters to be addressed to
the consideration and discretion of the circuit court to which the
report was made returnable, and are not subject-matters for revision by this court, oh a writ of error. Opinion of the circuit
court of the United States for the district of Maine, annexed;
Parsons v. Beford et al. 3 Pet. 445; Wright et al. v. Lessee of
Hollingsworth et al. 1 Pet. 168; Cutler v. Grover, 15 Maine R.
159; Walker v. Sanborn, 8 Ibid. 288; Cumberland v. North
Yarmouth, 4 Ibid. 459; Whitney v. Cook, 5 Mass. 143; Boardman v. England, 6 Mass. 70; Toland v. Sprague, 12 Pet. 331;
Evans v. Phillips, 4 Wheat. 73; Henderson v. Moore, 5 Cranch,
11 ; Harker v. Ellicott et al. 7 Serg. & R. 285 ; Zeller's Lessee
v. Eckert et al. 4 How. 289.

248

SUPREME COURT.
York and Cumberland R. R. Co. v:Myors.

MKr. Justice CAIPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action by the defendant in this court (Myers)
against the railroad company, for the breach of the covenants
in a contract made between these parties ill August, 1850, by
which the defendant agreed to perform certain work, incur
charges and expenses, and supply equipments and materials in
the construction of a railroad from the city of Portland, in
Maine, to South Berwick, il New Hampshire; and also to fulfil
the unexecuted engagements of certain contractors who had retired before completing their contract. Before the terms of the
contract had been accomplished, the defendant was dismissed, as
le alleges, without a sufficient cause; and the object of the suit
is to recover such damages as he had sustained by the failure of
the company to discharge the obligations they had assumed to
him. The declaration recites at large the agreements of the parties, and contains a general averment that he entered upon the
construction of the railroad, and the performance of all the matters and things upon his part to be done and performed, and had
performed all the things required to be done and performed, until
the 19th of August, 1852, and had nearly completed one of the
sections of the road so as to be fit for use, and that it had been
used; also, that he had expended large sums towards the engineering, surveys, construction, and grading of other parts of the
road, until he was unlawfully dismissed, and hindered, and forbidden to prosecute the work any further.
The declaration then contains a general averment of the nonperformance by the plaintiffs (railroad company) of their obligations to suffer the work to proceed, to abide the decision of their
engineer, or to pay the amounts that had become payable prior
to his dismissal.
This averment is material, in connection with other parts of
the case, and will be extracted hereafter.
The defendant (Myers) proceeds to take up the various stipulations of the railroad company, to describe their legal effect, and
to denounce their breach by the company. None of these are
of importance to the case here, save those that arise on the 8th
and 9th articles of the contract. The first of these articles provides for the payments to be made on account of the first division of the road; and the other, for those on the three remaining
sections into which it was divided. The 8th article provides
that the corporation should pay to the defendant for the performance of his undertakings, and in full satisfaction of the obligations of the company on the prior contracts, $32,000 per mile
for the first division of the work; that for all work done by the
previous contractors, to the 1st of August, 1850, payments
should be meallc according to their contracts, inclusive of the re-

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

249

York and Cumberland R. R. Co. v. Myers.

serve fund; f6r all lands purchased by them, whether for cash,
bonds, or stock, payments should be made in cash, bonds, or
stock, according to the mode of the purchase; and for all such
work on said first division, from the 1st of August, and as the
same should progress, current payment should be made at the
rate of fifty per cent in cash, twenty-five per cent in the six per
cent bonds of the company, and twenty-five per cent in stock;
one half of the latter to be reserved for an indemnity for the fulfilment of the contract, until said division of the road should be
completed.
The 9th section of the agreement refers to the second, third,
and fourth sections of the road. For the fulfilment of all its
obligations, the company agreed to pay $27,500 per mile- thirtythree and one third per cent in cash, on the return and adjustment of each monthly estimate by the engineer; a like sum in
the bonds of the company; and a like sum, reserving one half
thereof for indemnity, in the stock certificates of the company.
"The monthly estimates to be governed by the same gradation
of actual expenditures as heretofore, and the payment to be
made on such estimate of actual expenditures."
And it was provided, that, upon the completion of either of
the second, third, or fourth sections, in work, material, stationhouses, and equipments, the whole of the payments of cash,
bonds, and certificates of stock, in corresponding amounts, equal
to the sum aforesaid, should be made in complete discharge of
said company upon all the contracts pertaining to that section
of the road. The breaches laid in the declaration, applicable to
the paymen ts, are as follows: "And the said plaintiff in fact saith, that the said defendants,
contrary to the covenants or agreements in the indenture aforesaid, did not abide by the decision of their engineer, as to the
amount and quantity of the several kinds of work done, in and
by said indenture contracted to be done by said plaintiff for
said defendants, and which were done and performed by the
plaintiff; nor did said defendants pay said plaintiff for the work
done by him for them, according to said agreement; but, on the
contrary, utterly refused to pay the plaintiff therefor, according
to the estimate of their engineer; although the plaintiff avers
that said engineer made to said defendants a return of the
monthly estimates of the work and labor done by plaintiff upon
said road."
The declaration recites the eighth article, and avers a breach
in reference to the payments, as follows: "And the plaintiff
avers that said defendants, in breach of their convenant aforesaid,
did not, for all the work performed and material furnished up to
said first of August, make a full settlement, as had been here-

250

SUPREME

COURT.

York and Cumberland R. R. Co. v. Myers.

tofore estimated, monthly, and pay the plaintiff therefor, in accordance with the covenants aforesaid; neither did said defendants, for all work on said division, as the same prcqgressed, after
said first of August, according to their convenants aforesaid, pay
therefor fifty per cent incash, twenty-five per cent in bonds, and
twenty-five per cent in stock, one half being retained, as stipulated, for an indemnity; nor did said defendants pay the plaintiffs therefor, according to the monthly estimates of the engineer,
as returned by him."
The breach of the covenants contained in the ninth article is
averred in language similar to the above, with variances corresponding to the difference of the sums to be paid.
Before a trial, the parties agreed to refer the action to the determination of three persons, to be appointed by the court, whose
report,.or the report of any two, was to be made as soon as may
be; and that judgment thereon was to be final, and execution
to issue accordingly.
Afterwards, one of the persons appointed was authorized to act
alone, and this person returned a decision in favor of the defendant, (Myers,) for an ascertained sum as damages.
Upon the return of the award to the court, the corporation
submitted objections, and examined the arbitrator in support of
them. These objections are as follows: " 1. That the said Hale has acted and awarded upon, and included in said award, damages for a subject-matter not referred
to him.
"2. That the said Hale has included in his said award damages for a claim not embraced in the plaintiff's writ and declaration, and not sued for iii the above action, and not referred to
his arbitration or decision.
"3. That, in and by his said award, he has awarded to the
plaintiff in said action damages for the non-delivery of the reserved stock specified in said writ and declaration, and in the
contracts therein set out and copied, although the said reserved
stock is not sued for, nor is any allegation made in the said writ
and declaration that the same had been demanded, nor was any
proof of demand of the same offered at the hearing before said
referee, nor was any claim for the same referred for his arbitration or decision.
"4. That the said Hale has awarded damages to the said
plaintiff, in lieu of profits for work not performed by the plaintiff under his said contracts, contrary to law.
"5. That there having been no proof or claim that the defendants, in fraud of the plaintiff's rights under his said contract, had
taken the contract from the plaintiff, and given to aiiy other
person at a lower rate, or taken it for the purpose of giving it to

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

251

York and Cumberland R. R. Co. v. Myers.

any other party at a lower rate, the referee has awarded a sum
as damages to the plaintiff for prospective profits not earned by
him, contrary to law.
"6. That it does not appear in and by said award whether the
said referee has credited or charged the plaintiff with an amount
of bonds deposited in the hands of Levi Morrell, under the terms
of the supplementary contract, dated February 6, 1851, and set
out in said writ and declaration.
"7. That it does not appear in and by said award what disposition was made by the referee of an amount of bonds in the
hands of D. 0. Emery, the treasurer of said corporation.
"8. That it does not appear in and by said award whether the
said referee charged the said plaintiff with an amount of bonds
in his hands, purporting to have been issued by one Nathaniel J.
Herrick, describing himself as treasurer pro tempore of said corporation."
The arbitrator testified that he had included the twelve and
one half per cent of reserved stock in the award ; that he considered the demand for reserved stock as suspended by the proceeding, and that the plaintiff (Myers) was entitled to damages
for not having received the stock previous to the breach of the
contract. He says there was no distinct claim made before the
referee for the reserved stock, but the account embraced it by
way of debtor and creditor. The books showed lie was entitled to reserved stock, but not as subject to his order, or that
he had any opportunity to receive it. He said it was admitted
that that amount of reserved stock would be due to him on settlement of his account, but not that he had at any time had it
under his control, nor was there any evidence that he had demanded it.
This testimony, with more to the same effect, was elicited
from the arbitrator upon his examination before the circuit court,
upon the return of the award, and in support of the exceptions
to it. The learned judge who presided received the evidence,
but overruled the exceptions, and embodied the testimony and
the decision in a bill of exceptions, reserving his opinion of the
regularity of that mode of proceeding, and whether the judgment can be revised. We are of the opinion, that the equity of
the statute allowing a bill of exceptions in courts of common
law of original jurisdiction, embraces all such judgments or
opinions of the court that arise in the course of a cause, which
are the subjects of revision by an appellate court, and which do
not otherwise appear on the record. Strother v. Hutchinson,
4 Bing. N. 0. 83 ; Ford v. Potts, 1 Halst. 388 ; Nesbitt v. Dallam, 7 G. & J. 494; 9 Port. 136.
But to present a question to this court, the subordinate tribu-

SUPREME COURT.
York and Cumberland R. R. Co. v. Myers.

nal must ascertain the facts upon which the judgment, or opinion
excepted to, is founded ; for this court cannot determine the
weight or effect of evidence, nor decide mixed questions of law
and fact. Zeller v. Eckert, 4 How. 289.
The practice prevails in the courts, where rules of reference
are in use, to examine the arbitrators as witnesses, to ascertain
facts material to the validity of the award; and the appellate
courts are accustomed to revise their decisions, and upon principle we see no objection to the introduction of the same practice
into the courts of the United States under the limitations we
have indicated. Thornton v. Carson, 7 Cranch, 597 ; Butler v.
layor of N. Y. 7 Hill, 329 ; Lutz v. Linthicum, 8 Peters, 166 ;
Sawyer v. Freeman, 35 Maine, 546; Ward v. American Bank,
7 Met. 486.
In the present instance we can collect from the evidence of
the referee, as shown in the exceptions, the fact necessary to
raise some of the questions contained in the objections to the
award, without being involved in the dispute between the parties, as to the condition in which the resefred stock had been
placed by the corporation.
The law is well settled, that by the reference of an action to
the determination of an arbitrator, nothing is included in the
submission but the subject-matter involved in it. Tidd's Pr.
822; 2 T. R. 645.
And if an arbitrator embraces in his award matter not submitted, and includes the result in a single conclusion, so as to
render it impossible to separate the matters referred from those
which have not been, the award is bad. Lyle v. Rodgers, 5
Wheat. 394; 33 Maine, 219; Sawyer v. Freeman, 35 Maine,
546.
The defendant contends that no claim for the reserved stock,
or for damages for its non-delivery, was embraced in the declaration or sued for in the action; and, as the reference was one of
the action merely, no such claim was submitted to the referee.
This involves the construction of the declaration.
We have extracted the averments in the declaration that were
designed to charge the corporation with the non-performance of
the covenants, for the payment for work done before the dismissal
of the contractor.
In one of those the charge is, that the corporation had neglected and refused to make any payments, and thus a total failure
to fulfil its obligations in respect to payments is alleged. The
assignments of the breaches of the 8th and 9th articles are made
in the language of the covenants themselves, and the failure
charged is coextensive with the obligations. If the corporation
had created no reserved stock, or had made no appropriation

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.
Shields v.

253

Thomas et al.

for the contractor, according to the monthly estimates as the
work progressed, and had finally dismissed him, so as to exclude
his claim for the stock reserved when his contract had been fulfilled, there could have been no ground for affirming that a
breach of the covenants had not been made by the corporation,
and that damages were not due.
There would have been no argument to support the allegation, that the contractor was a corporator to the extent of the
stock which should have been reserved. But, as we interpret the
declaration, its averments have this scope and operation.
It was the duty of the arbitrator to ascertain the truth of these
charges. They were the precise subject of the reference. The
arbitrator has explained with clearness in his testimony his conclusion on the subject of this stock, that the contractor had no
title to the shares; that is, that he had not been paid by the
appropriation of so much reserved stock for his use. This conclusion of his is a final decision on the question, for this court
cannot revise his mistakes, either of law or of fact, if such hiad
been established. Burchell v. Marsh, 17 How. 344; Kleine v.
Catara, 2 Gall. 61. The objections, we have noticed, include all
that were insisted on in the argument.
The objection taken to the absence of an original writ, or to
the supply of a copy, is not tenable. The original writ had fulfilled its function when the defendant had been brought into
court, and its loss did not affect the action of the plaintiff; and,
it was a matter resting in the discretion of the court, upon ascertaining the defective state of the record, to supply the deficiency.
Our conclusion is, there is no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.

JOHN G. SHIELDS, APPELLANT, V. ISAAC THOiAS, AND MfARY, HIS
WIFE, NANCY PIRTLE, JOHN B. GOLDSBURY, THOM1AS STARES,
AND ELIZABETH, HIS WIFE, AND JAMES PICKETT, AND ANN, HIS
WIFE.
Where there was an administration upon the estate of an intestate in Kentucky, the
surety in the administration bond and a portion of the distributees residing there,
the court of that place had jurisdiction over the stibject-matter ; and where the principal defendant, although residing out of the State, voluntarily appeared and answered a bill filed against him, the jurisdiction of the court was complete, and it had
a right to pass a decree in the premises.
If several claimants of portions of an estate unite in filing a bill, this does not make it
multifarious. The authorities upon thi. subject examined.
VOL. XYII

2:i

