DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

553

The United States v. Cruz Cervantes.

challenging countenance and support here upon those circumstances) that they have originated in practical and temporary
usurpations of power; and that, amidst scenes of violence and
disorder, have been either maintained or acquiesced in, in defiance of the known public law.
Yet, these avowals with respect to the origin and growth of
these claims -avowals which infect and taint their entire being
and character, and which ought to consign them to the sternest
the merits by which they commend
reprobation -constitute
themselves to the countenance and support of a tribunal whose
highest function is the assertion of law, justice, integrity, order,
- the dispensation of right equally to all.
Upon such a foundation, such a pretence, or rather such a
defiance of authority, I will not, by an abuse of language, call
it even a pretence of right. I cannot consent to impair or
destroy the sovereign rights and the financial interests of the
United States in the public domain. I can perceive no merit,
no claim whatsoever, to favor, on the part of the grasping and
unscrupulous speculator and monopolist; no propriety in retarding, for his advantage or profit, the settlement and population
of new States, by excluding therefrom the honest citizen of
small means, by whose presence and industry the improvement
and wealth, and social and moral health, and advancement of
the country are always sure to be promoted.

THD

UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V.

CRUZ

CERVANTES.

The court again decides (as in United States v. Reading, page 1) that it was the duty
and not that of the grantee, to submit a grant of land
of the governor of California,
to the departmental assembly.
And, moreover, when the case was submitted, and a committee reported in favor of
the grant, but no final action appeared to have been had upon the matter, the grantee
should have the benefit of the presumption of a decision in his favor.
It again decides, as in the preceding case of Arguello v. The United States, that the
ten littoral leagues spoken of in the regulations of 1824 and 1828, do not mean prohibition of grants of land to native citizens for their own use.
The title to lands held by the missions of California, was never vested in the church,
which had only an usufruct in them ; and in the present case, the mission assented
to the grant in question.
The 17th section of the regulations of 1828 has no application to the present case.
Also, in 1833 and 1834, the government of Mexico passed laws to secularize the missions.

THis was an appeal from the district court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The nature of the claim is stated in the opinion of the court.
VOL. XVIFl.

47

554

SUPREME COURT.,
The United States v. Cruz Cervantes.

The decree of the district court was as follows :
This cause came on to be heard at the above-stated court, on
the transcript and evidence and the arguments of counsel for the
United States, and for the claimant Cruz Cervantes being. It
is hereby ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the decision and
decree of the board of commissioners, for the ascertainment and
settlement of private land claims in claim of the appellant, Cruz
Cervantes, be and the same is hereby confirmed, to the extent
of two square leagues or sitios de ganado mayor, and for no
more; being the same land described in the grant and expediente
referred to therein, and of which judicial possession was given
to him, as appears by the evidence; provided that the said quantity to him granted and now to him confirmed, be contained
within the boundaries called for in said grant, and map to which
the grant refers, and, if there be less than two square leagues, or
sitios de ganado mayor, within the said bounds, then there is
confirmed to him the said less quantity.
M. H. M'AInSTER, CircuitJudge.
OGDEN HoFFMAN, JR., -DistrictJud,ge.
-

From this decree, the United States appealed to this court.
It was argued by Hr. Cushing, (attorney-general,) for the
United States, and by Mllr. ones, for the appellee.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee, Cruz Cervantes, having complied with the provisions required by law, obtained a grant from Nicholas Cuterriez, then governor of California, "of a parcel of land known by
the name of San Joaquin, bounded on the north by San Felipe,
on the. south by Santa, on the west by the plain of San Juan,
and on the east by the hills of the same name," containing the
quantity of two leagues.
This concession, dated April 1, 1836, was presented to the
departmental assembly for confirmation. The committee reported in favor of the grant, -" on the 12th of July it was returned
to the committee for its reformation." This concludes the
expediente as certified from the archives. It does not appear
whether any further action was taken on the subject by the
assembly; nor do the books exist among the archives from which
any further facts can be ascertained.
The land granted was reported to be within the ten littoral
leagues, and as having at one time appertained to the mission
of San Juan Bautista, - on a reference of the expediente made
to the steward of the mission, their consent was certified, that
"the place to be adjudicated to the petitioner so far as the hills,
without touching the oak grove," &c.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855,

555

The United States v. Cruz Cervantes.

Within the space of two years Cervantes entered on the land,
built on it, and cultivated it, and continues so to do. On the
10th of February, 1841, juridical possession was delivered to him
by metes and bounds with the customary formalities.
The objection§ to the validity of this grant are: 1. That it
was not approved by the departmental assembly. 2. That the
land is within the ten littoral leagues. 8. That it belonged to a
mission, and it was therefore unlawful to grant it.
1. The first objection, if true in fact, has been disposed of by
this court in the case of United States v. Reading, decided at
this term. Besides, so far as the archives show any action of
the assembly on this grant, it is an approval of it; and as there
is no evidence that it was rejected or annulled, or any further
.report made on it, the grantee should have the benefit of the
presumption of a decision in his favor.
1 2. The objection that the land lies within the ten littoral
leagues, has jast been disposed of, in the case of The United
States v. Arguello.
3. As to the objection that the land had belonged to the mission.
The large tracts of land appurtenant to the mission establishments, were never vested in the church, or any other corporation
or individual, by any grant of a legal title. The missionaries
and Indians had an usufruct or occupancy of the land, at the will
of the sovereign. The record shows, that though the lands noiv
in question had formerly been occupied by the mission, they
were not so at the time this grant was made. It was made, also,
with the assent of the mission, who set up no claim to further
occupancy.
The 17th section of the regulations of 1828 forbids lands "occupied" by missions from being made the subject of "colonization
grants for the present," &c., and can therefore have no application
to lands not so occupied, and not made the subject of "colonization." Besides, in 1838 and 1834, the government of Mexico
passed laws to secularize the missions; since which time, the
public authorities have granted these lands to individuals in the
same manner as other public lands; as has been decided by this
court in the case of United States v. Ritchie, 17 How.525.
The judgment of the district court is, therefore, affirmed.
3r. Justice DANIEL dissented.
For the reasons of his dissent see the preceding case of Arguello v. The United States.

