584

SUPREME

COURT.

Culbertson v. Shaw et al. Claimants, &c.

before getting into that position. Though the brig was at
anchor between the steamer and the schooner when the former
was sweeping across the river and heading for the opening between the brig and the ships, yet the sails of the schooner were
hoisted, and must have been visible over the hull of the brig.
The steamer, therefore, made for this passage, not only without
first ascertaining it to be clear, but without discovering the sails
of the schooner which might and ought to have been seen, and
which, if seen, would have warned those managing her that the
.passage there was not clear. We hold this attempt of the
steamer to come to her landing between the vessels at anchor,
without first ascertaining that the track was clear, to have been
culpable, and; accordingly, that she must be condemned in the
damages and costs.
The decree of the circuit court is reversed, and the cause
remanded to be proceeded with according to law..
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented in both cases.

AUGUSTUS LORD, LIBELLANT AND APPELLANT,
BOAT ISAAC NEWTON, HER TACKLE, &C.,

v.

THE STEAMDANIEL DREw,

CLAIMANT.

Tais being a libel by the owner of the cargo on board The lero
at the time of the collision, is disposed of by the opinion in the
case of the libel by the owners of the vessel. It was argued
with the other case. Depends on the same evidence, and the
decree must, in like manner, be reversed and the cause remanded.

WILLAm B. CULBERTSON, APPELLANT, V. THE STEAMER SOUTHERN BELLE; HENRY B. SHAW, WILLIAM M. SHAW, ELAx
BowMAN, SIDNEY A. LACOSTE, AND JOHN DE SEBASTIAN,
CLAIANTS.
Where a regulation was made in one of the harbors of the Mississippi River, assigning
their positions to different species of boats, if the regulation was generally known,
it was the duty of all persons to conform to it.
Where a flat-boat was moored at the place designated for flat-boats, and a steamboat,
in attempting to land, came into collision with and sunk the flat-boat, the steamboat
must be liable for the damage done.
When a steamer is about to enter a harbor, great caution is required. Ordinary care,
under such circumstances, will not excuse a steamer for a wrong done.

