DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

577

Ogilvie et al. v. The Knox Insurance Co. et al.

ADAx OanivIE E;T AL. COMPLAINANTS, v. THE KNOX INSURANCE
COMPANY ET AL.
Where questions are certified up to this court in consequence of a division in opinion
between the judges of the circuit court, which questions involve the consequences of
fraud by an agent of a company and no facts are set forth showing the connection
of the agent with the company, the questions are too general and abstract for this
court to answer.
The cause must, therefore, be dismissed.

THIS case came up from the circuit court of the United States
for the district of Indiana, upon a certificate of division in opinion between the judges thereof.
As the record was very short, it is thought proper to insert the
whole of it.
Be it remembered, that amongst the records of the United States
circuit court for the seventh judicial circuit and district of
Indiana, begun, continued, and holden at Indianapolis, in said
district, on the first day of June, in the year of our Lord 1855,
- that being the eleventh day of said term of said court, before the Honorable John McLean and the Honorable Elisha
M. Huntington, judges of said circuit and district, is the following order, to wit:
ADAM OGmvm et al.

)

Chancery. -No. 3.
et al.
Now at this time come the parties, and the judges of this court
being opposed in opinion on certain questions arising in this
cause, they order and direct that the following statement of the
matters and questions upon which the opini6ns of the judges are
so opposed be entered upon the record of this court, and that the
same be certified under the seal of this court to the supreme
court of the United States, to be finally decided.
OGILVIE and others, complainants,
v.

THE KNOX INSURANCE COMPANY

THE KNOX INSURANCE Co., Cullom and 6thers,}

defendants.
The complainants are the several creditors of the Knox Insurance Company, holding judgments and executions returned
"no property," &c., against the company. Cullom and the
other defendants, twenty-five in number, are charged as stockholders in default in the payment of their several stock subscriptions.
The bill charges substantially as follows: 1. That some time before the 12th of February, 1850, the
VOL. XV11.

49

578

SUPREME COURT.
Ogilvie et al. v. The Knox Insurance Co. et al.

company was duly organized under its charter, and had authority to receive further subscriptions of stock ; and that afterwards,
at various times, between that time and the first of June, 1850,
Cullom and the other defendants, severally became subscribers
for stock, and either paid in cash or secured by note or bill of
exchange ten per cent of the amounts severally subscribed, and
for the balance made their notes or bills; and that the bills of
exchange made for the ten per cent were renewed by other bills
of exchange drawn in September and October, 1850, and the bill
sets out all the securities remaining due and unpaid.
2. That the complainants are creditors of the company by
reason of losses on policies issued by the company, at various
times, after the subscriptions of the defendants, and the judgments and executions are stated.
3. That the company is destitute of property subject to execution.
4. That the company has neglected to enforce the collection
of the money due from the defendants.
5. That the defendants refuse to pay, on the pretence that
their subscriptions were procured by means of certain false representations concerning the situation, prospects, and actual
business of the company.
7. And that the complainants are advised that it is not material to them or to others who have dealt with the company, how
or why the defendants became stockholders; that, by becoming
such, the defendants gave credit to the company, by means
whereof the complainants were induced to deal with it.
8. That of the defendants, Battorff, Cullom, Hughes, Sparkes,
and Savitz, and one Kegwin, a debtor, subscriber not made a
party because a citizen of Kentucky, acted as officers of the company throughout the year 1850.
9. And that the defendants, nor any of them, did not, at any
time in any manner, attempt to inform the public of the alleged
facts now set up in defence.
The prayer is that the defendants pay, &c., and for general
relief. The Knox Insurance Company answered, and admitted
generally the facts stated in the bill, &c. Cullom and the other
defendants severally answered. The answers admit the execution of the securities by the defendants on account of the stock
subscribed by them, and set up as a defence substantially the
following: That Robert N. Carnan was an agent of the company
to procure subscriptions of stock, and as such, in February,
1850, made to defendants certain false representations, by which
they were induced to subscribe for said stock, and give their said
notes and bills. Their representations were as to the amount
of stock then subscribed and secured at Vincennes, and as to

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

579

Ogilvie et al. v. The Knox Insurance Co. et al.

the amount of funds on hand; and that defendants had not at
that time any means of knowing the accuracy of these representations.
The depositions of Cullom, Savitz, and Schwartz (three of the
defendants) were taken and offered to be read in evidence in
behalf of the other defendants, but not in behalf of themselves,
to prove the allegations of fraud set out in the answers. The
complainants objected to the competency of said witnesses, because they were parties to this action, and the objections by
consent of parties were reserved to the hearing..
At the May term, 1854, this cause was submitted to the court
on the bill, the answers, and the depositions, including the depositions of Cullom, Savitz, and Schwartz, which were then read,
subject to the objections above mentioned ; and after argument,
the said cause was continued under advisement to the November
term following.
-At the November term, 1854, the cause was continued to the
May term, 1855, under advisement.
And now, at the May term, 1855, under the pleadings and
on the state of facts above set forth, the following questions occurred :
1. Are the depositions of said Cullom, Savitz, and Schwartz,
under the circumstances of this case, and to the effect above
stated, competent as evidence for their co-defendants ? And, on
this question, the opinions of the judges were opposed.
2. Will the fraud of the agent of the Knox Insurance Company, in procuring said subscriptions, notes' and bills, if sufficient
to avoid said subscriptions, notes, and bills, as against said Insurance Company, be a defence against the complainants in this
suit.
And on this question the opinions of the judges were opposed.
Whereupon, it is ordered, according to the request of the complainants, and to the law in that case provided, that the foregoing
statement of the pleadings and facts, which is made under the
directions of the judges, be certified under the seal of this court
to the supreme court to be finally decided.
I, Horace Bassett, clerk of said court, do hereby certify, that
the above and foregoing is a true and correct copy from tile
records now in my office.
In witness whereof, I have hereto set my hand and affixed the
of said court, on this sixth June, in the year of our
cL. s.] seal
Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifty-five.
H. Bssm, Clerk.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.

580

SUPREME

COURT.

Ogilvie et al. v. The Knox Insurance Co. et al.

The complainants, 1y bill in equity, claim an indemnity for
losses upon policies issued to them by the company. They allege that the company by its charter, were authorized after theit
organization, to increase the amount of their stock by further
subscriptions thereto. That in virtue of the authority of this
permission, several individuals who are made defendants to the
bill, did in June, 1850, subscribe for shares in the company; that
they had paid in cash a portion of those shares, and had executed for the residue securities which were still unpaid. The
bill further alleges, that the company are destitute of funds, or
property which can be reached by execution, and prays that the
amounts subscribed by the individual defendants as stockholders,
and which are still unpaid, may be applied to the satisfaction of
the demand of the complainants.
The answer of the company, which is not made a part of this
record, is stated to contain a general admission of the charges
in the bill. The individual defendants, whilst they do not deny
their subscription to the stock of the company, nor their execution of the securities for the payment of that subscription, deny
their liability to payment thereof upon the ground that their
subscription, and the execution of those securities, were obtained
from them by fraudulent representations by the agent of the
company, as to the amount of the stock actually subscribed, and
as to -'e funds possessed by the company. The depositions of
three of the individual defendants were offered in evidence on.
behalf of others, who were co-defendants, to prove *the fraud in
the agent of the company alleged in the answers, and were excepted to as incompetent evidence. But the facts stated by these
witnesses are not set forth in the record. At the hearing the following order was made by the court, viz.: And now at the May
term, 1855, under the pleadings and on the facts above set forth,
the following questions occurred : 1. Are the depositions of the defendants, Savitz, Cullom, and
Schwartz, under the circumstances of this case and to the effect
above stated, competent as evidence for their co-defendants ?
2. Will the fraud of the agent of the Knox Insurance Company in procuring said subscriptions, notes, and bills, if sufficient
to avoid the said subscriptions, notes, and bills, as against the
said insurance company, be a defence against the complainants
in this suit ?
Upon the first question propounded by the certificate in this
case, we deem it unnecessary to express an opinion, because,
whatever might be the opinion of this court as to the degree of
interest which shall disqualify a witness, we consider the solution of any such question as irrelevant, under the considerations
by which our opinion upon this case as presented to us must be
controlled.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

581

Crockett et al. r. Newton, Claimant, &c.

The foundation of the case certified is, first the assumption of
fraud practised by the agent of the insurance company; and,
secondly, an inquiry as to the liability of the company resulting
from the connection of the company as principal with their
agent, and from the character of the fraud assumed as above.
The question of fraud or no fraud, is one necessarily compounded of fact and of law; and without a correct and precise
knowledge of the facts from which the legal conclusion should
be deduced, it is not easy to perceive how any legal conclusion
can be reached.
In this case, as certified, there is no fact shown by which the
precise connection of this alleged agent with the company is
established; or the character or extent of any representations
said to have been made by him, and upon which it is assumed
that the company may be bound. There is nothing then before
us upon which this court could deduce any inference or conclusion properly applicable to the case as it really exists. The
question propounded, therefore, appears to be one that is entirely
general and abstract, and which can admit of no answer but one
which is equally abstract .and general, and which may in truth
have no application to the case. We therefore think that this
certificate admits of no other answer than an order that the case
be remanded to the circuit court to be proceeded in according to
law.

JONATHAN CROCKETT, ARCHIBALD C. SPALDING, JOHN GREGORY,
CHRISTOPHER DYER, AND NATHANIEL DYER, LIBELLANTS AND
APPELLANTS, v. THE STEAMBOAT ISAAC NEWTON, HER TACKLE,
&C., ISAAC NEWTON, CLAIMANT.
AUGUSTUS LORD, LIBELLANT
AND APPELLANT, v. THE STEAMBOAT ISAAC NEWTON, HER
TACKLE, &c., DANIEL DREW, CLAIMANT.
The general rule is, for a sailing vessel meeting a steamer, to keep her course, while
the steamer takes the necessary measures to avoid a collision.
And though this rule should not be observed when the circumstances are such that it
is apparent its observance must occasion a collision, while a departure from it will
prevent one, yet it must be a strong case which puts the sailing vessel in the wrong
for obeying the rule.
The present is not such a strong case, and therefore the steamer must be condemned
in the damages and costs resulting from a collision between herself and a sailing2
vessel.

THESE two cases were appeals from the circuit court of the

United States for the southern district of New York.
In the first case, the libellants were owners of the schooner
49 *

