DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

137

Parker et al. v. Overman.

After the testimony closed, the court instructed the jury that
"there was no evidence that Simoneau cultivated any out-lot or
common-field lot; nor that any one existed at the place where
the cultivation was; nor had the act of 1812 application to this
land, so far as Simoneau, or those claiming under him, are concerned. And further, that if there had existed an out-lot or common-field lot, undefined by boundaries, which was claimed on the
ground of inhabitation, cultivation, or possession, then the act of
the 26th May, 1824, required that the fact of inhabitation, cultivation, or possession, and the boundaries and extent of such
claim, should be proved before the recorder of land titles, to enable the surveyor-general to distinguish the private from the
vacant lots. And no steps having been taken under the act of
1824, nor any authoritative location or survey of the land, at any
time, either under the Spanish government or the government of
the United States, the evidence given in this case will not enable
the defendant to resist a recovery by the plaintiff."
The case of Guitard et al. v. Stoddard, 16 How. 494, decided
since this case was tried at the circuit, disposes of both branches
of the instructions to which we have referred, holding that
whether or not the lot, and the inhabitation, cultivation, or possession thereof came withini the purview of the act of 1812, were
questions of fact for the jury; and that the neglect to procure
the sukvey and location, under the act of 1824, did not operate
to impair or forfeit the title acquired under that of 1812.
As the judgment of the court below must be reversed for
errors in the instructions referred to, it is unimportant to take
notice of any other questions raised on the trial or in the argument.
Judgment reversed, and venire de novo to issue.

ROBERT A. PARKER AND
TJA

MILES WHITE, APPELLANTS, v. WIrOVERMAN.

A statute of Arkansas directs, that, where lands are sold by a sheriff, or other public
officer, the purchaser is authorized to institute proceedings in a court, calling upon
all persons to come in and show cause why the sale should not be cohfirmed.
Such a proceeding, when instituted in a state court and removed into the circuit court,
conformably to the act of congress, constitutes a case over which this court will take
jurisdiction.
In such petition for removal, it is not enough to allege that the petitioners were residents in another state. They must allege that they were citizens.
The statute makes the deed sufficient evidence of the authority, the description, and
the price. The term "sufficient," is equivalent to *rinufacie.
before aI certain
Before the sheriff can assess land, he is required to file an affidavit
12*

SUPREME

COURT.

Parker et al. v. Overman.
day, and to file his assessment before another given day. A non-compliance with
these requisitions makes the assessment, and of course the sale for taxes, invalid;
and the deed must be set aside.

THis was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the District of Arkansas.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Hlr. William Shepard Bryan, for the plaintiffs in error, and Mr. Lawrence, for defendant.
The points made by Mr!&. Bryan, which are decided by the
court, were the following: 1. That by the true construction of the act, such a deed is
made evidence only of those facts which are recited in it.
2. That in order to establish the regularity and validity of a
sale of land for taxes, the deed should show, upon its face, that
every essential preliminary required by the statute has been performed.
3. That the deeds set out in the record, fail to recite several
of these essential preliminaries; .and that, therefore, they do not
furnish evidence of the validity of the sale in question.
There are no recitals in the deeds, that the sheriff filed his
assessment list, on or before March 25 ; that he gave ten days'
notice in each township, that the list would be laid before the
next county court; that he laid the list before the county court,
at the term next succeeding March 25 ; that the court,-at that
term, adjusted this tax to be paid; that on or before the first
Monday in August, he filed a list of the lands of non-residents
with the auditor ; that the list was corrected by the auditor, and
advertised when corrected. 13 How. 472; 8 Eng. (Ark. Rep.)
242; 14 Pet. 322; 4 Wheat. 77; Arkansas Revenue Act, (Dig.

c. 139, ยง 112.)

6. That all the testimony taken together (even if the incompetent testimony on the part of the petitioner be considered)
shows that the sheriff and collector did not strictly pursue the
authority to sell the land for taxes, given him by the revenue act,
but that he omitted several important particulars.
He filed his assessment list too late ; he neglected to give the
ten days' notice required by law; he laid the list before the
county court one term too late; and be was too late in filing
with the auditor a list of the lands of non-residents.
M r. Lawrence:The deed which was given in evidence was primd facie, and,
in the absence of positive proof of irregularity, conclusive evidence of the regularity and legality of the tax sale. Rev. Stats.
c. 128, ยง 96, p. 687. Roberts v. Pillow, 13 How. 472.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

139

Parker et al. v. Overman.
By the 97th section of the Revenue act, p. 687, Rev. Stats., it
is enacted, that "no exception shall be taken to any deed made
by a collector," &c., "but such as shall apply to the real merits
of the case, and are consistent with a liberal and fair interpretation of the intention of the general assembly."
It is insisted that no objection which is taken to the proceedings in this case has any merit, considered with regard to the
intention of the general assembly.
So far as the proceedings connected with the sale are concerned, a strict compliance with the statute is shown.
The only want of compliance with the literal requirements of
the act, is in the fact that the affidavit of the assessor, required by
section 7, was not filed till the15th March, 1845, and the assessment list was not filed in the office of the county clerk, on or
before the 25th March, as required by section 26.
Dallas County was created by act approved January 1, 1845,
which act passed the lower house, 24th December, 1844, and the
senate, on the 28th of the same month.
By the 9th section of that act, an election was to be held on
the fourth Monday of January, of all the officers necessary for
the organization of the county, except justices and constables.
The first officers of Dallas county were sworn in about the
1st March, 1845.
The sheriff filed his affidavit as assessor, 15th March, 1845,
and on the 28th April, 1845, filed his assessment list in the
county court. The county court at its first term, adjudged the
list as required by law, and all the proceedings thereafter were
in strict accordance with the revised statutes.
It is submitted, first, that the objection, that the assessor's
oath was not filed on the 10th day of January, and the assessment list oil the 25th of March, has no substantial merit, because the list was to be made out and filed, in order to be
adjusted by the court, upon the appeal of any one aggrieved by
the amount assessed on his property.
So far as regards the land in question, they were assessed at
the lowest amount permitted by the law. Of course no advantage would have happened from an earlier notice of that
which he dould not object to.
And, secondly, it is submitted that the act erecting Dallas
county was a legislative suspension of such portions of the
revised statutes as the act, by. its requirements, rendered impossible.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
As some doubts were entertained, and have been expressed
by some members of the court, as to its j.risdiction in this case,

SUPREME COURT.
Parker et al. v. Overman.

it will be necessary to notice that subject, before proceeding to
examine the merits of the controversy. It had its origin in the
state court of Dallas county, Arkansas, sitting in chancery. It
is a proceeding under a statute of Arkansas, prescribing a special
remedy for the confirmation of sales of land by a sheriff or other
public officer. Its object is to quiet the title. The purchaser
at such sales is authorized to institute proceedings by a public
notice in some newspaper, describing the land, stating the
authority under which it was sold, and "calling on all persons
who can set up any right to the lands so purchased, in consequence of any informality, or any irregularity or illegality connected with the sale, to show cause why the sale so made should
not be confirmed."
In case no one appears to contest the regularity of the sale,
the court is required to confirm it, on finding certain facts to
exist. But if opposition be made, and it should appear that the
sale was made "contrary to law," it became the duty of the
court to annul it. The judgment or decree, in favor of the
grantee in the deed, operates "as a complete bar against any
and all persons who may thereafter claim such land, in consequence of any informality or illegality in the proceedings."
It is a very great evil in any community, to have titles to land
insecure and uncertain; and especially in new States, where its
result is to retard the settlement and improvement of their
vacant lands. Where such lands have been sold for taxes, there
is a cloud on the title of both claimants, which deters the settler
from purchasing from either. A prudent man will not purchase
a lawsuit, or risk the loss of his money and labor upon a litigious
title. The act now under consideration was intended to remedy
this evil. It is in substance a bill of peace. The jurisdiction
of the court over the controversy is founded on the presence of
the property; and, like a proceeding in rem, it becomes conclusive against the absent claimant, as well as the present contestant. As was said by the court in Clark v. Smith, (13 Pet. 203,)
with regard to a similar law of Kentucky: "A State has anl
undoubted power to regulate and protect individual rights to
her soil, and declare what shall form a cloud over titles; and
having so declared, the courts of the United States, by removing such clouds, are only applying an old practice to a new
equity created by the legislature, having its origin in the peculiar condition of the country. The state legislatures have no
authority to prescribe forms and modes of proceeding to the
courts of the United States; yet having created a right, and at
the same time prescribed the remedy to enforce it, if the remedy
prescribed be substantially consistent with the ordinary modes
of proceeding on the chancery side of the federal courts, no

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

141

Parker at al. v. Overman.

reason exists why it should not be pursued in the same form as
in the state court."
In the case before us, the proceeding, though special in its
form, is in its nature but the application of a well-known chancery remedy; it acts upon the land, and may be conclusive as
to the title of a citizen of another State. He is therefore entitled
to have his suit tried in this court, under the same condition as
in other suits or controversies.
In the petition to remove this case from the state court, there
was not a proper averment as to the citizenship of the plaintiff
in error. It alleged that Parker "resided" in Tennessee, and
White in Maryland. "Citizenship" and "residence" are not
synonymous terms; but as the record was afterwards so amended
as to show conclusively the citizenship of the parties, the court
below had, and this court have, undoubted jurisdiction of the
case.
What we have already stated sufficiently shows the nature of
the present controversy. The decree appealed from "adjudges
the absolute title to the land to pass and be confirmed to, and
vest in, said William Overman, his heirs, &c., free, clear, and
discharged from the claim of said defendants, and all persons
whatsoever; and that the said sale thereof for taxes, so made by
the sheriff of Dallas county to said Overman, is hereby confirmed
in all things, and said defendants perpetually enjoined from setting up or asserting any claim thereto, &c."
The plaintiffs in error allege that this decree is erroneous, and
should have been for defendants below.
Much of the argument of the learned counsel in this case was
wasted on the effect to be attributed to the recitals in the deed,
and the decision of this court in the case of Pillow v. Roberts,
13 How. 472.
That was an action of ejectment, in which this court decided
that, under the 96th section of the revenue law, the sheriff's or
collector's deed was made prime facie evidence of the regularity
of the previous proceedings. The effect of that section of the
act, and of the decision in that case, was to cast the burden of
proof of irregularity in the proceedings on the party contesting
the validity of the deed ; but as the present controversy is for
the purpose of giving an opportunity "to all persons who can set
up any right or title to the land so purchased, in consequence of
any informality or illegality connected with such sale," to contest
its validity, it would be absurd to make the deed, whose validity
is in question, conclusive evidence of that fact. Consequently,
the statute enacts that in this proceeding "the deed shall be
taken and considered by the court as-sufficient evidence of the
authority under which said sale was made, the description of

142

SUPREME COURT.
Parker et al. v. Overman.

the land, and the price at which it was purchased. The deed is
to be received as primd facie evidence of these three facts, and
casts the burden of proof as to them on the defendant. The
term "sufficient" is evidently used in the statute as a synonyme
for "priidfacie," and not for "conclusive."
In judicial sales under the process of a court of general jurisdiction, where the owner of the property is a party to the proceedings, and has an opportunity of contesting their regularity
at every step, such objections cannot be heard to invalidate or
annul the deed in a collateral suit. But one who claims title to
the property of another under summary proceedings where a
special power has been executed, as in case of lands sold for
taxes, is bound to show every fact necessary to give jurisdiction
and authority to the officer, and a strict compliance with all
things required by the statute.
The principal objection to the regularity of the sale in this
case, and the only one necessary to be noticed, is, that the land
was not legally assessed. A legal assessment is the foundation
of the authority to sell ; and if this objection be sustained, it is
fatal to the deed.
In order to qualify the sheriff to fulfil the duties of assessor,
the statute requires that, "oil or before the tenth day of January,
in each year, the sheriff of each county shall make and file in the
office of the clerk of the county an affidavit in the following
form," &c.: "And if any sheriff shall neglect to file such affidavit within the time prescribed in the preceding section, his
office shall be deemed vacant, and it shall be the duty of the
clerk of the county court, without delay, to notify the governor
of such vacancy," &c.
The statute requires, also, "that on or before the 25th day
of March, in each year, the assessor shall file in the office of the
clerk of the county the original assessment, and immediately
thereafter give notice that he has filed it," &c. This notice is
required, that the owner may appeal to the county court "at the
next term after the 25th day of March, and have his assessment
corrected, if it be incorrect." If the assessor shall fail to file his
assessment within the time specified by this act, he is deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and subjected to a fine of five hundred
dollars.
These severe inflictions upon the officer, for his neglect to
comply with the exigencies of the act, indicate clearly the importance attached to his compliance in the view of the legislature, and that a neglect of them would vitiate any subsequent
proceedings, and put it out of the power of the sheriff to enforce
the collection of taxes by a sale of the property.
The record shows that Peyton S. Bethel, the then sheriff of

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

143

Richards et al. v. Holmes et al.

the county of Dallas, did not file his oath as assessor on or before
the 10th of January, as required by law. He did file an oath on
the 15th of March, but this was not a compliance with the law,
and conferred no power on him to act as, assessor. On the contrary, by his neglect to comply with the law, his office of sheriff
became ipso facto vacated, and any assessment made by him in
that year was void, and could not be the foundation for a legal
sale. The neglect, also, to file his assessment and give immediate notice on the 25th of March, so that the purchaser might
have his appeal at the next county court, was an irregularity
which would have avoided the sale even if the assessment had
been legally made.
The statute makes the time within which these acts were to be
performed material; and a strict and exact compliance with its
requirements is a condition precedent to the vesting of any
authority in the officer to sell.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the sale of the land of the
appellants was "contrary to law," and that the deed from Edward M. Harris, sheriff and collector of Dallas county, to William
Overman, set forth and described in the pleadings and exhibits
of this case, is void, and should be annulled.

EDWARD 0. RicaARDs, IsAAc BASSETT, AND ROBERT W. ABORN,
COMPLAINANTS AND APPELLANTS, v. SYLVANUS HOLMES, A. H.
HARPER, GEORGE A. DWIGHT ET AL.
Where there was a deed of trust to secure the payment of a note which had two years
to run, and the trustee was empowered to sell in case any default should be made in
payment of any part of the debt and interest, the trustee could sell the property if
the interest for the first year was not paid when due.
It was not necessary that the trust deed should describe the interest as being annual.
The trustee had power to adjourn the sale from time to time, if duly advertised, and
it should seem to him necessary in order to secure a fair price.
The creditor for whose benefit the sale was made had a right to request the auctioneer
to make a bid for him, if fairly used.
Assignors who did not indorse the note, but assigned it by deed, and covenanted that
it should be first paid out of the proceeds of sale of the property conveyed in the
deed of trust, cannot be held personally responsible. The covenant in the assignment was only that the note assigned should have a preference.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of
Washington.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Bibb, for the appellants, and by Mr.

