DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

503

The Union Bank of Tennessee v. Jolly's Adm'rs.

in question, and it appears upon the face of them that the subject-matter was within its jurisdiction, they cannot be impeached
for error or irregularity; that, if a court has jurisdiction, its decision upon all the questions that arise regularly in the cause
are binding upon all other courts until they are reversed. 2 Pet.
157; 1 Ib. 340. And when the object is to sell the real estate
of an insolvent or embarrassed succession, the settled doctrine is,
there are no adversary parties,- the proceeding is in rem,-the
administrator represents the land. They are analogous to proceedings in admiralty, where the only question of jurisdiction
is the power of the court over the thing, - the subject-matter before them, - without regard to the parties who may have an,
interest in it. All the. world are parties. In the orphans' court,
and all the courts which have power to sell the estates of decedents, their action operates on the estate, not on the heirs of the
intestate. A purchaser claims not their title, but one paramount. The estate passes by operation of law. 2 How. 819;
11 S. & R. 426; 6 Port. 219, 249.
The identity of the principles applied by the supreme court of
Louisiana, in ascertaining the effect of the judgments of their
courts, and those accepted as true by this court, leaves no question resting upon the authority of the State tribunals, except that
of the nature and extent of the jurisdiction of their courts under
the organic law of the State. And no principle would authorize
this court to dissent from their conclusions on that subject, when
the land disposed of was within their borders, and the parties in
interest were citizens belonging to their community.
Our opinion is, that the pleas of the defendants afford a complete answer to the bill; and that the decree of the circuit court
must be affirmed.

THE

PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS, AND OOMPANY OF THE UNION
B3ANK OF TENNESSEE, APPELLANTS, V. MICAJAH J. VAIDEN

AND JoHN H.

KEITH, ADMINISTRATORS

OF WILLIAM JOLLY,

DECEASED.
Where a suit was brought in the United States court by citizens of another State
against a citizen of Mississippi, who appeared to the suit, pleaded and then died,
after which the suit was revived against his administrators, and judgment obtained
against them, the following proceedings of the probate court afford no bar to the
recovery of the claim :
I A declaration by the probate court that the estate was insolvent, and a reference
of the matter to a .. ,nhmissioner in insolvency
2 A publication notifying the creditors of the estate to appear and file their claims,
or be forever barred of their demands.
3. A report by the commissioner, leaving out the claim in question, wh'ch report
was confirmed by the cuurt.
- - 4,

504

SUPREME CO'URT.
The Union Bank of Tennessee v. Jolly's Adm'rs.

Where the estate turned out not to be insolvent, but a fund remained in hand for
distributees, the creditors can recover by a bill in chancery against the administrators,
notwithstanding the proceedings in the probate cour.
The law of a State, limiting the remedies of its citizens in its own courts, cannot bo
applied to prevent the citizens of other States from suing in the courts of the
U nited States in that State, for the recovery of any property or money there, to
which they may be legally or equitably entitled.

Ti s was an appeal from the district court of the United
States for the northern district of Mississippi.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr.Coxe, for the appellants, and .Mr. Stanton,
for the appellees.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the district court for the northern
district of Mississippi.
The appellants filed a bill in December on the equity side of
the district court against the appellees.
"The bill charges that in November, 1846, the bank instituted a suit on the law side of the same district court against
William Jolly, as indorser of a bill of exchange held by
plaintiffs. Jolly appeared to the suit, and filed his plea. He
died in March, 1847, and appellees were appointed his administrators by the Panola court of probate, in Mississippi. The
suit against Jolly was revived against his administrators, the
appellees, and in June, 1851, the same came on for trial on the
issue joined on the single plea of non assumpsit, and a judgment was rendered in favor of plaintiff for $5,041.33 with costs.
Upon this judgment execution was issued, which was returned
by the marshal nulla. bona. The judgment remains wholly
unpaid, and there is no visible property in the hands of the
administrators upon which a levy could be made.
"The bill proceeds to charge, that pending the said suit against
the administrators in April, 1848, they represented to the said
probate court of Panola county, that the estate of their intestate
was insolvent, and procured a declaration to be made by said
,ourt to that effect, whereas the bill charges that said estate was
not and is not insolvent, and that the assets in the hands of the
administrators are more than sufficient to pay all the liabilities
of the estate. That the administrators have converted the
assets into cash to the amount of upwards of $20,000, and
have fully paid all the debts of intestate, with the single exception of that due to complainant. The debts they have paid
amount to about $11,000, and the administrators have upwards
of $9.000 in cash or available assets belonging to the es.tate,
which is not required for the payment of any other debt, but
refuse to apply any part thereof to the payment of iomplain-

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

505

The Union Bank of Tennessee v. Jolly's Adm'rs.

ant's debt, and will shortly pay the same over to the heirs at
law of Jolly, unless prevented by the interposition of the court.
"The defendants pretend that complainants have no right to
require payment of their judgment out of said assets, because
they have not established the claims upon which the judgment
is founded before the probate court of Panola county, and had
the same allowed by said court, but complainants are advised
and insist that such allowance by said probate court is not
necessary.
"Sundry special interrogatories are appended to the bill.
"In June, 1852, defendants filed their answer. The principal
averments inthe bill are admitted,-it is admitted that they have
received assets to the amount of $20,000; that they have paid
all the debts which have been legally established against the
estate to the amount of more than $13,000, and have in their
hands assets to the value of $6,500, and that if complainants'
claim is disallowed, the estate will be worth to the heirs about
They are advised that complainants' judgment is
$6,000.
barred, and if they were to pay it, they would pay it in their
own wrong.
"They deny that they did illegally or fraudulently procure the
estate to be declared insolvent. When they took charge of the
estate as administrators, it was appraised at $18,090.761, and
debts or claims against it were brought to the notice of respondents $18,597.40. Respondents, looking to probable results,
believed it might prove and would probably prove insolvent;
under these circumstances they procured the declaration. The
clerk was appointed commissioner of insolvency, and publication was made for the period of twelve months, warning all
creditors of Jolly to present their claims to the commissioner for
allowance. In April, 1849, the commissioner made his report,
and an order was passed requiring all persons interested to
appear and except to the report at July term, 1849,-at July term
respondents alone excepted to the report, they excepted to two
claims which had been allowed, one of these claims was allowed,
the other disallowed; and in October term, 1849, the report was
approved and confirmed-p. 8. Respondents append a transcript to these proceedings, and rely upon the same as a bar to
complainants' claim."
To the answer of the defendants a general replication was
filed, and, on the hearing of the cause, the court decreed a dismissal of the complainants' bill.
In the argument of the case in this court, the counsel of the
defendants urged the following grounds against the right of the
recover:
cumplaitiants t,,
, If the complainat-" demand is not barred by their failure to
VIII XV1il

43

506

SUPREME

COURT.

The Union Bank of Tennessee v. Jolly's Adm'rs.

present it in the. probate court, their remedy is at law, and not
in equity. The defendants admit that they have $6,000 in their
hands, belonging to the estate of their intestate. If they are
bound to pay this to the complainants, and refuse to do so, they
are guilty of a devastavit, and are liable to an action on their
bond. In their answer, they expressly deny that complainant
(the bank) has made out a cause entitling it to relief in the
premises, and that this court has jurisdiction thereof.
"But the complainants are entitled to no relief, either in
@quity or at law.
"The defendants cannot be prejudiced by suffering judgment
to go against them on the plea of non assumpsit. Hutchison's
Code, 657, ยง 57 ; Hemphill v. Fortner, 11 Sm. & Mar. 344.
"The decrees of probate courts, in case of estates reported
insolvent, cannot be questioned or set aside, unless by a regular
appeal taken, or on account of fraud. Hutchison's Code, 667,668,
673, 683, 684; Chewning v. Peck, 6 How. Mi. Rep. 524; Smith
v. Berry, 1 Sm. & Mar. 321; Addison v. Eldridge, 1 lb. 510;
Herrings v. Wellons, 5 lb. 354; Dalgren v. Duncan et al. 7 lb.
280.
"Insolvency may be declared when the debts appear to be
greater than the probable value of all the real and personal
property. The court has a discretion, which, when exercised, is
conclusive, unless a direct appeal be taken. Saunders's Admr. v.
Planter's Bank, 2 Sm. & Mar. 304.
" As to the responsibility of an administrator who pays debts,
when the estate subsequently becomes insolvent, see Woodward
v. Fisher et al. 11 Sm. & Mar. 804 ; Bramblet v. Webb et al.
11 Ib. 438.
" Creditors whose claims have not been presented to the commissioner, are forever barred, even when the estate proves not to
be insolvent. Allen and Apperson v. Keith and Vaiden, 26
Miss. Rep. 232 ; Anderson v. Tindall, 26 Miss. Rep. 332.
"The creditor must present his claim to the commissioner of
insolvency, though he have a suit pending against the administrator. Trezevant et al. v. McQueen, 13 Sm. & Mar. 311.
"And when a commission of insolvency has been regularly
opened and closed, it will not be reopened, even at the instance
of a judgment creditor, whose judgment bears date since the
closing of the commission. Harrison v. Motz et al. 5 Sm. &
Mar. 578.
"The foregoing authorities must be deemed conclusive
against the appellants, unless the rendition of a judgment by a
federal court can be held to take away from the probate courts
their exclusive jurisdiction, in the administration of the assets
of deceased insolvents. But there can be no doubt that the

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

507

McMicken v. Perin.

laws of the State, from which the executor or administrator
derives his authority to act, must prevail, as well in the federal
as in the state tribunals. Citizens of other States, possibly,
cannot be prevented from suing in the federal courts in order to
establish their demands; yet the effect of the judgment, its lien,
or other operation upon the assets of the deceased, must be
absolutely controlled by the local law; otherwise the conflict of
jurisdictions would be irreconcilable and disastrous. And such
it is believed is the well-established doctrine of this and all
other courts. Story's Conflict of Laws, 3d ed. ยง 521. Williams
v. Benedict, 8 How. Sup. C. R. 107. McGill v. Armour, 11
How. Sup. C. R. 142."
But we do not deem it necessary to discuss them in detail,
for the law of a State limiting the remedies of its citizens in its
own courts cannot be applied to prevent the citizens of other
States from suing in the courts of the United States in that
State for the recovery of any property or money there, to which
they may be legally or equitably entitled. This principle was fully
discussed, and decided by this court in the case of Suydam v.
Brodnax, and others, 14 Pet. 67. We refer to the reasoning in
support of it given in that case without repeating it, or thinking it necessary to add anything on this occasion. It concludes
this case.
And it is our opinion, under the circumstances and the
testimony in this case, that the surplus in the hands of the
defendants must be applied to the payment of the judgment of
the complainant in preference to any claim which has been
asserted to it for the heirs at law or distributees of the intestate,
Jolly. We reverse the decree of the court below, and shall
remand the case with directions to that court for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

CHARLES

McMICKEN,

APPELLANT, v. FRANKLIN PERIN.

A purchase of an interest in property by an attorney, made after judgment has been
obtained, is not forbidden by the laws of Louisiana.
And where money is borrowed to make the purchase, the lender of the money is
estopped from pleading illegality in the purchase, and thus retaining the prop'ervf
which had been conveyed to himself as security for the loan.
In the contract between him and the borrower there was no illegality.
No objections to a master's report can be made which were not taken before the
master; nor after a decree pro confesso can a defendant go before the master without
a special order, but the accounts are to be taken ex purte.
An appeal will not lie from the refusal of a court to open a former decree, nor have
the circuit eourts power to set aside their decrees in equity, on motion, after tue
term at n uit they were rendered.

