DECEMBER TERM, 1855.
Allen's Executors v. Allen et al.

in September, 1851, had any legal effect upon the contract between the State and the bank contained in the sixtieth section of
the Bank Law of February, 1845.
MAfr.
Stavberry, for the plaintiff in error, and H7fr. Pugh, for the
defendant in error, considered that all the questions which arose
in this case were fully argued in the case of Woolsey v. Dodge.
Mr. Perry filed a brief for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
We find upon the agreed statement of facts in this case, that
it is ruled by the decision of the court in the cases of the Piqua
Branch of the State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop, 16 Howard, 369,
and that of Dodge v. Woolsey, decided at this term. We therefore reverse the decision of the supreme court of Ohio, and
'direct a mandate to be issued accordingly.
Mr. Justice CATRON, Mr. Justice DANIEL, and Mr. Justice
CAMPBELL dissented.

JOSEPH WILKINS, TENANT,

AND FRANCIS

G.

BAILEY, JOSEPH PEA-

COCK, AND SAMUEL BAILEY, EXECUTORS OF MICHAEL ALLEN,
DECEASED, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. DAzvD ALLEN, MARTHA
ALLEN, CATHERINE ALLEN, AND ISABELLA ALLEN.

Where a testator, in Pennsylvania, gave to his wife a life estate in the homestead and
two lots, and charged upon his goods and lands an annuity to her, but did not
mention his lands in any other part of the will, and then, after sundry legacies
bequeathed the surplus to be applied to the purposes of the Presbyterian church,

this surplus does not relate to his lands, which his heirs will take.
By the law of Pennsylvania, heirs must take, unless they are disinherited by express
words or necessary implication.
Evidence of extrinsic circumstances, such as the amount and condition of the estate,
&c., cannot be received to control the interpretation of the will. It is only admissible to explain ambiguities arising out of extrinsic circumstances.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the western district of Pennsylvania.
It was an ejectment brought by the Allens, who were aliens
and subjects of the Queen of Great Britain and Ireland, to recover four undivided fifth parts of one undivided half of a lot in
Pittsburg. They were heirs of Michael Allen, and the question
was, whether Allen, the testator, had devised the property in
question by his will.
VOL. XVIII.

33

386

SUPREME

COURT.

Allen's Execntors v. Allen et a.

The substance of the will is given in the opinion of the court,
as are also the rulings of the circuit court.
It was argued by .Mr. Williams, for the plaintiffs in error, and
by -Mr.Loomis and Ak. Stanton, for the defendants.
The points made by Mr. Williams are thus stated in his brief:
The case presents two questions only: 1st. Whether the terms of the will are sufficient, proprio
vigore, and interpreting the same by the context, to carry the
real estate to the executors; and,
2d. Whether the interpretation thereof may not be aided, if
necessary, by extrinsic circumstances, to wit: memoranda, declarations, and the actual amount and condition of the estate, as
offered to be shown by the defendants.
On the first of these questions, a nd for the purpose of showing
that the intention (which is only another name for the will) of
the testator, is the great point of inquiry, and must be collected
from the whole writing, and evgry word and sentence thereof;
and that to serve it, words may be used either in the technical
or general sense, and even supplied, transposed, or changed, the
counsel for the plaintiffs in error will refer to the cases of Ruston
v. Ruston, 2 Dali. 244; Findlay v. Riddle, 3 Binn. 149; Lynn
v. Downes, 1 Yeates, 518; Beltzhoover v. Costen, 7 Barr, 16;
Turbett v. Turbett, 3 Yeates, 187; Hunter's estate, 6 Barr, 97;
Earp's Will, 1 Par. 457; Den v. Blackwell, 3 Green, 386; Den
v. McMurtrie, Ib. 276; 1 Jarman on Wills, chap. xvii., and cases
there cited.
That, as a consequence of the foregoing rules, real estate may
pass uider a devise by any form of expression not properly and
technically descriptive thereof, if such an-intent can be collected
from the context-that general expressions may be restrained
and special expressions enlarged, and the same words sometimes
understood in one sense, and sometimes in another, will be shown
in the cases of Huxtep v. Brooman, 1 Brown C. C. 437; Taylor
v. Webb, 2 Sid. 75; Pitman v. Stevens, 15 East, 505; Wilce v.
Wilce, 5 Moore & Payne, 682; Tolar v. Tolar, 3 Hawks, 74;
Hope v. Taylor, 1 Bur. 268; Doe v. White, 1 East, 33; Den v.
Trout, 15 East, 394; King v. Shrives, 4 Moore & Scott, 149;
Anon. 3 Dale, 477; Jackson v. Housel, 17 Johns. 281; Ferguson v. Zepp. 4 W. C. 0. R. 645; Hogan v. Jackson, Cowper,
299; Marchant v. Twisden, Gilb. Eq. Ca. 30; Wilkinson v.
Merryland, Cro. Car. 447, 449; Cliffe v. Gibbons, 2 Ld. Raym.
1324; Bullard v. Goffe, 20 Pick. 252; Doe v. Rout, 7 Taunt.
79; Woolham v. Kenworthy, 9 Ves. 137; Timewell v. Perkins,
2 Atk. 102; Roe v. Yeud, 2 B. & P. (N. R.) 214.
That the circumstance of a previous specific devise of land,

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

387

Allen's Executors v. Allen et al.

always favors the extension of the subsequent general words
to property of the same description, although even the absence
of that circumstamce is not considered as conclusive against it,
even when the subsequent terms are associated with words
descriptive of personal property only. I Jarman on Wills, 575.
That the word "surplus" and its equivalents, without more,
may operate by reference, to carry either realty or personalty,
or both, he will refer particularly to the cases of Bebb v. Penoyre,
11 East, 160; and Dewey v. Morgan, 18 Pick. 295.
That the interpretation of the testator's language is to be
made with reference to the law and usages of the place of his
actual domicile, 2 Greenl. Ev. § 671; Story's Conft. of Laws,
§ 479, f.; Harrison v. Nixon, 9 Pet. 483; and that, by the
law of Pennsylvania, the whole interest of a testator passes
without words of inheritance or perpetuity, unless a different
intent appear; act 'of 8th April, 1833, § 9 (Ph. L. 249;)
Purdon's Dig. 844; that real estate is assets for the payment of
debts and legacies are chargeable on lands where \he personalty
is insufficient to meet them; Nichols v. Postlethwaite, 2 Dall.
131; English v. Harvey, 2 Rawle, 309 ; and that, therefore, the
habit of treating both as equally a fund to pay any demand,
would not probably be forgotten by a testator when making his
will. Ib.
On the second and last of the questions proposed, namely,
whether the construction may be aided by proof of extrinsic
circumstances, the counsel for the plaintiff,
To show that the court may and ought to put themselves in
the place of the testator, by looking into the state of his property,
and the circumstances by which he was actually surrounded,
will refer to 1 Greenl. Ev. §§ 287, 288, 289, & 290, and notes;
Ruston v. Ruston, Supra (2 Dall. 244); Brownfield v. Brownfield, 8 Har. 59; Root -v. Stuyvesant, 18 Wend. 257; Jarvis v.
Buttrick, 1 Met. 480; Morton v. Perry, lb. 446; Fox v. Phelps,
17 Wend. 393; Wigram on Wills, 5th proposition, page 5, and
cases cited in illustration thereof.
That when words, used in their strict and primary sense, are
insensible, with reference to extrinsic circumstances, the court
may look to those circumstances to see whether the meaning
would be sensible in any popular or secondary sense, of which,
with reference to those circumstances, they are capable, (third
proposition, Wigram on Wills,) and that even without reference
to such distinction, the court may look into the facts, where the
construction claimed would render the devise or bequest inoperative. Smith v. Smith, 1 Edw. Ch. 189; Whilden v. Whilden,
Riley's Ch. 205; Trustees v. Peaslee, 15 N. H. 317; Kinsey v.
Rhem, 2 Iredell, 192; Ayres v. Weed, 16 Conn. 291; Hand v.

SUPREME COURT.
Allen's Executors v. Allen et al.

Hoffman, 3 Halstead, 71; Allen v. Lyons, 2 Wash. C. C. R.
475, and cases cited of misnomer and misdescription generally.
And that even the declarations of the testator, to prove a fact
collateral to the question of intention in aid of the interpretation
of words, may be admitted in evidence. 1 Greenl. Ev. § 291
and note; Trustees v. Peaslee, 15 N. H. 317; Ryerss v. Wheeler,
22 Wend. 148.
The plaintiffs' counsel will, moreover, in aid of the offer of
evidence to show the inadequacy of the personal estate to satisfy the previous legacies, insist on the assertion of the substantive fact of a " considerable surplus," by the testator himself,
which was only true upon the hypothesis that he did include real
estate, in his estimate and devise, as necessitating a reference to
the actual condition of his affairs at the time of making his
will, for the purpose of showing that there was no such property
as he is supposed to have intended by the iord "surplus," while
there was property answering the description of a surplus upon
which the will might operate. 4
In further support of the proposition that the construction of
the will in question may be aided and controlled by the proof
of extrinsic facts and circumstances, the counsel for the plaintiffs in error will refer also to 1 Jarm. on Wills, 355, and note 1;
Wilde's case, 6 Rep. 17; Roper, 60, 67 (3d ed.); Cartwright v.
Vawdry, 5 Ves. 530; Lord Woodhouselee v. Dalrymple, 2 Mer.
419; Rose v. Bartlett, Cro. Car. 293; Davis v. Gibbs, 3 P. Wins.
26; Knottsford v. Gardiner, 2 Atk. 450; Thompson v. Lawley,
2 B. & P. 403; Day v. Trig, 1 P. Wins. 286; Fonnereau v.
Poyntz, 1 Bro. C. C. 472; Druce v. Dennison, 6 Ves. 397; Finch
v. Inglis, 3 Bro. C. 0. 420; Attorney-General v. Grote, 3 Mer.
316; Colpoys v. Colpoys, Jac. 463 ; Smith v. d. Doe Jersey, 2
Brod. & Bingh. 553; Jeacock v. Falconer, 1 Bro. C. C. 296; Selwood v. Mildmay, 3 Ves. 306; Doe d. Belasyse v. Lucan,
9 East, 488; Attorney-General v. Vigor, 8 Ves. 256; Standen
v. Standen, 2 Ves. 589 ; 3 Kent, 334, 335 ; Lowe v. Lord Huntingtower, 4 Russ. 532; 8 Rep. 155; Rewalt v. Ulrich, 11 Har.
388.
The points made by .Mr. Loomis and .Mr. Stanton were the
following:1. In the disposition, by the will of Michael Allen, of the surplus remaining after the payment of all claims and bequests,
there is neither doubt, uncertainty, nor ambiguity.
2. If that disposition be doubtful or uncertain, it must receive
appropriate construction from the words of the will itself, and no
parol proof or declaration ought to be admitted out of the
will to ascertain it. Bradford v. Bradford, 6 Wharton, 244;

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

389

Allen's Executors v. Allen et al.

Weatherhead's Lessee v. Baskerville et al. 11 How. 357, 358,
359; Murrell v. Livermore, 7 Eng. Com. Law, 9; 5 Barn. &
Ald. 18.
8. In determining such construction, the heir at law is not,
and especially those standing in the place of the common-law
heir are not, to be disinherited, except by express devise, or by
implication so inevitable that an intention to the contrary cannot be supposed. 1 Powell on Devises, 199; French v. M'Ilhenny,
2 Binney's Rep. 20; Clayton v. Clayton, 3 Binney's Rep.
484; Brown v. Dysinger et al. 1 Rawle, 415; Finley v. King's
Lessee, 3 Pet. 379; Bradford v. Bradford, 6 Wharton, 244;
Doe on dem. Spearing v. Buckner, 6 Term Rep. 611, 612, 613 ;
Hayden v. Stoughton, 5 Pick. 536; Roosevelt v. Heirs of Fulton, 7 Cowen, 79, 187 ; Roper on Wills, 352, 358.
4. The application of the principles embraced in the last two
points to the construction of the disposition before mentioned,
will show clearly and conclusively that the title of the heirs of
the testator to the real estate, of which he died seised, has not
been thereby devested.
5. Parol evidence cannot be adduced to contradict, add to, or
explain the contents of a will. Parol evidence of the actual intention of a testator is inadmissible for the purpose of controlling
or influencing the construction of the written will. No word
or phrase in the will can be diverted from its appropriate subject or object by extrinsic evidence. Wigram on Wills, 1st and 2d
Rules; Ib. 24, 27, 80, 81, 82, 88-92, 96, 130 ; 1 Jarman on Wills,
c. 14, pp. 349, 358 ; 11 How. 357, 358, 359 ; Farrar v. Ayres, 5
Pick. 409; Barrett v. Wright, 13 Pick. 48; Mann v. Mann,
14 Johns. 9, 14 ; S. C. 1 Johns. Oh. 231.
6. There is but one case in which parol evidence of intention
can properly be admitted, and that is where the meaning of the
testator's words is neither ambiguous nor obscure, and where
the devise is, on the face of it, perfect and intelligible ; but from
some of the circumstances admitted in proof, an ambiguity
arises as to which of the two or more things, or which of the
two or more persons, (each answering the words in the will,) the
testator intended to express. I Greenl. Ev. § 289 ; Hiscocks v.
Hiscoeks, 5 Mee. & Wels. 363, 367; Atkinson's Lessee v. Cummins, 9 How. 486; Miller v. Travers, 8 Bingh. Rep. 244; 21
Eng. Com. Law Rep. 290; Aspden Estate, 2 Wallace's Rep.
448.
7. A testator's parol declarations are not admissible to control the construction of his will, nor his evidence, as to the
state of his property, admissible for that purpose. Ryeres v.
Wheeler, 22 Wend. 151; Fonnereau v. Poyntz, 1 Bro. Ch. R.
472; Roberts on Wills, 24, 34; Brown v. Selwyn, Cases Temp.
33*

390

SUPREME COURT.
Allen's Executors v. Allen et al.

Talbot, 240 ; Attorney-General v. Grote, 3 Mer. 316 ; 10 Wheat.
229; 3 Halsted, 71.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Michael Allen, of the city of Pittsburg, made his will in 1849,
by which he bequeathed to his wife, for life, his dwelling-house
in said city, with two lots of ground occupied by him and her
as a garden. He also gave her the household furniture and
library. "And still furthermore," he declares, "that, first and
foremost, there shall be secured to my dear wife, on my real and
personal estate, an annuity of twelve hundred dollars a year, to
be punctually paid semiannually during her lifetime, and that
my executors pay all the taxes on the premises occupied by my
dear wife during her lifetime."
The testator then bequeathes: 1st. To the five children of
Dr. Robert Wray, five hundred dollars each. 2d. To the managers of the orphan asylums of the cities of Pittsburg and Alleghany, two thousand dollars eaqh. 3d. To the pastor and sessions of the First Presbyterian Church, two thousand dollars.
4th. To the general assembly of the Presbyterian church, ten
thousand dollars. 5th. To the trustees of the board of sessions
of said general assembly, four thousand dollars. 6th. To the
Foreign Evangelical Society, located in New York, three thousand dollars. 7th, 8th, and 9th, he gave for the use of the Presbyterian church, eleven thousand dollars. 10th. To the American
Bible Society, six thousand dollars. 11th. To the American
Tract Societjr, four thousand dollars. 12th. For the use of the
Sunday School Union, situate in Philadelphia, four thousand
dollars.
He next declares: "As to my debts, they will amount to very
little; but, and after paying all claims and bequests, there will
remain a considerable surplus, which I give and bequeath in
trust to my executors, be the same more or less, to be applied to
the religious and benevolent purposes of the several institutions
of the general assembly of the Presbyterian church in the United
States of America, as before mentioned" ; and then constitutes
and appoints his executors (who are the plaintiffs in error) to
carry out the provisions of the will.
The defendants in error are the heirs at law of Michael Allen.
They sued his executors in ejectment to recover a portion of the
lands situate in the city of Pittsburg, of which he died seised,
insisting that the lands did not pass by the will.
The residuary clause was supposed to be of doubtful meaning and obscure. To remove the alleged obscurity, the defendants below offered to prove on the trial, "from memoranda
made by the testator at the time of the execution of said last

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

391

Allen's Executors v. Allen et al.

will and testament, and upon the basis of which the same was
prepared by him, and also by declarations made by him at and
about the same time, what was his real meaning in the employment of the word ' surplus' in the residuary clause of said will,
and that the same was intended to comprehend his whole remaining estate, as well real as personal."
"And further, to show by other evidence, besides the said
memoranda, the actual amount and condition of the personal
estate at the time of the execution of the said last will and testament, as well as at the period of the testator's death, and that
the same was entirely insufficient, at either of the said periods,
to pay the specific and pecuniary legacies provided therein; and
this, for the purpose of explaining the meaning of the testator
in the said residuary clause, and the employment of the said
word 'surplus' therein, by showing that, if the same did not
embrace the real estate, the said residuary clause would be entirely inoperative, for the reason that there was, in point of fact,
under such construction, at neither of said periods, any surplus
whatever, as supposed and declared by the testator himself."
On motion of the plaintiffs, the court rejected the evidence,
and instructed the jury that no title vested in the executors by
the residuary clause.
On this state of facts, the first question presented for our consideration is, whether the terms of the will are sufficient in
themsplves, when interpreted by their context, to carry the real
estate to the executors?
As, in this instance, the testator's language must be construed
with reference to the laws and policy of the country of his domicile, it is our duty to ascertain what the laws and policy of Pennsylvania are, so far as they may have a controlling influence in
the construction of this will.
In the first place, Pennsylvania has only so far altered the
English common law as to substitute all the children for the sole
heir, carrying out this rule of descent through the collateral
branches. This is the will the law makes in case of intestacy,
and is the policy of the State. Under the law, the heirs must
take, unless they are "disinherited by express words, or necessary implication." "Conjecture, nor uncertainty, shall never
disinherit him." Such was the ground assumed by counsel in
the case of Clayton v. Clayton, 8 Binney, 481, and which assumption was sustained by the court; ib. 486. Chief Justice
Tilghman says: "The rule of law gives the estate to the heir,
unless the will takes it from him: and, in order to take it from
him, it must give it to some other person. Thus we are brought
back to the question, are there any words in the will sufficient
to convey more than an estate for life to the devisees. I can
find none."

892

SUPREME

COURT.

Allen's Executors v. Allen et al.

In the case referred to, the testator devised a homestead to his
niece, Sarah Evans, and her children, without adding the word
heirs. That he intended to give an estate in fee was hardly
open to controversy; but the words of the will did not carry the
fee, and the court refused to follow a doubtful intention. It
there came fairly up to the rule laid down in the English case
of Mudge v. Blight et ux. Cowp. 355, that "where there are no
words of limitation, the court must determine in the case of a
devise affecting real estate, that the devisee has only an estate
for life, because the principle is fully settled and established, and
no conjecture of a private imagination can shake a rule of law.
If the intention of the testator is doubtful, the rule of law must
take place; and so if the court cannot find words in the will
sufficient to carry a fee. Though they should themselves be satisfied beyond the possibility of a doubt, as to what the intention
of the party was, they must adhere to the rule of law."
This decision was made in 1811, and the principles then laid
down have since been adhered to with uncommon care and
strictness.
In speaking of expressions in a will necessary to disinherit the
heir, Chief Justice Gibson, in delivering the opinion of the court
in the case of Bradford v. Bradford, 6 Wharton, 244, says :
"The intention must be manifest, and rest on something more
certain than conjecture. The court must proceed on known
principles and established rules, not on loose conjectural interpretations, nor considering what a man may be imagined to do
in the testator's circumstances. The principle is applicable in.
all its force in a case like the present, in which the question goes
to the birthright of those who, standing in place of the commonlaw heir, are not to be disinherited except by express devise, or,
as is said in 1 Powell on Devises, 199, by implication so inevitable that an intention to the contrary cannot be supposed."
It is there admitted that when the testator provided that "all
his worldly goods of all sorts and kinds" should be vested in
trust and held as one fund, for a hundred years, and his children
and their descendants should receive the rents and profits, that
he most probably intended to include his lands. This, however,
(the court declares,) is no more than a confident conjecture, and
that it must come at last to an analysis of the testator's language to ascertain the legal meaning of the will.
Now, testing the will before us by these rules, and where can
any provision be found in it showing a plain intention to disinherit the heirs ? The lands are never named except where the
wife is given a life estate in the homestead, and two lots, and,
secondly, where her annuity of twelve hundred dollars is imposed on the goods and lands as a charge.

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

393

Allen's Executors v. Allen et al.

But as the residuary clause is mainly relied on, as carrying the
real estate to the executors, it is proper that some further notice
should be taken of its import. The testator declared that his
debts amounted to very little, and that, after paying all claims
and bequests, there would remain a considerable surplus, and
this he bequeathed to his executors, to be applied to religious and
benevolent purposes. He did not indicate any new fund, nor a
surplus arising from the sale of lands, in the concluding clause
of the will more than in any previous clause, where he provided
for the support of the Presbyterian church.
The terms of the will, proprio vi;gore, being insufficient to disinherit the heirs, the next question is, whether the interpretation
thereof may not be aided by extrinsic circumstances, namely,
memoranda, declaration, and the actual amount and condition
of the estate, as offered to be shown by the defendants below.
That the court may put itself in the place of the testator, by
looking into the state of his property, and the circumstances by
which he was surrounded when he made the will, is not only true
as a general proposition, but without such information it must
often happen that the will could not be sensibly construed.
Wigram (10, 60) lays down the rule with much distinctness.
Such evidence, however, is only admissible to explain ambiguities arising out of extrinsic circumstances, as to persons provided
for, objects of disposition, and the like. For instance, if the testator gave to his grandson, J. S., a plantation, and he had two
grandsons of that name; or he devised his son J. his plantation
on a certain river, and he had two plantations there,- in each
case proof might be heard to show the person or thing intended.
But evidence cannot be heard to show a different intention in
the testator from that which the will discloses.
Such is the established doctrine of this court, as was held in
the case of Weatherhead v. Barksdale, 11 How. 357.
The only English case we will refer to is that of Miller v.
Traverse, 8 Bingh. 248. There the testator devised and vested
in trust "all his freehold and real estates whatsoever in the county
of Limerick, and the city of Limerick." At the time of making
the will, he had no real estate in the county of Limerick, but had
a small estate in the city of Limerick, and considerable real estate
in the county of Clare; and the question was whether the devisees could be admitted to have an issue and trial at law on
the ground that they offered to prove that, by the original draft
of the will, the estates in Olare were included, and the county
left out by oversight or mistake; and also that the testator so
expressed himself.
The lord chancellor was assisted by the chief justice of the
common pleas and the chief baron, and they all concurred in

394

SUPREM E COURT.
Connor v. Peugh's Lessee.

holding that the evidence offered could not be heard to change
the import of the will, and refused the issue. And so it is manifest here, that if the evidence were to show all that is assumed
for it, yet it could not be heard to affect this will.
It is ordered that the judgment of the circuit court be
affirmed.

MARY ANN CONNOR, ALIAS MARY ANN VAN NESS, TENANT, &C.,
PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. SAmUEL A. PEUGH'S LESSEE.
Where a declaration in ejectment was served on the 15th of the month and the court
met on the 27th, it was ten days before the commencement of the term.
Judgment being entered against the- casual ejector, the tenant having neglected to
0 make herself a party, cannot bring a writ of error to the judgment.
A motion to set the judgment aside was an application to the sound discretion of the
court below. No appeal lies from its decision, nor is it the subject of a bill of exceptions or writ of error.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the circuit
court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden
in and for the county of Washington.
The counsel for the defendant in error moved to dismiss the
writ of error under the following circumstances: An action of cjectment was brought by Peugh's lessee to recover the eastern half part of lot number seven, in the square or
reservation marked B in the city of Washington. A copy of
the declaration was served on Mrs. Connor, on the 15th March,
1854, the court being about to meet on the 27th, and the rules
requiring the service to be made at least ten days before court.
At the term of March, there being no appearance for the defendant, a motion was made by the plaintiffs' counsel for judgment
against the casual ejector, which was postponed till next term.
At October term, 1854, judgment was entered against the
casual ejector, and also against Mary Ann Connor, the tenant
in possession.
On the 24th of March, 1855, a writ of habere facias possessionern was sued out, which was returned, "came to hand too
late for service."
On the 23d of May, 1855, an alias writ was issued, returnable
on third Monday of October thereafter.
Before the return day of this writ, namely, on the 5th of June,
1855, Mrs. Connor appeared in court by her counsel and moved
to set aside the judgment and also to quash the writ of hab. fac.
poss., upon the ground that a copy of the declaration was not
served upon her ten days before the meeting of the court at

