556

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Vaca et al.

THE UNIE

STATES, APPELLANTS, V. JUAN MANUEL VACA AND
JUAN FELIPE PENA.

Where there was a grant of land in California in 1843, with three boundaries and the
quantity stated; and in 1845 a new grant was made which was approved by the
departmental assembly, subject to the condition, that within four months a map of
the land should be made; this was a condition subsequent, the non-compliance with
which did not work a forfeiture of the grant, but only left the land liable to be
denounced.
Moreover, the disturbed state of the country was a sufficient reason for not making the
survey.

THis was an appeal from the district court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Hr. Cushing, (attorney-general,) for the
United States, and by Mr. Jones, with whom was Mr. Strode, for
the appellees.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
On the27th January, 1843, the claimants and appellees in this
case, Juan Manuel Vaca and JosS Phelipe Pefia,, (the latter
under the name of Armijo,) received a grant of land from Micheltorena, then governor; the boundaries of which, as stated in the
grant, are the Sacramento River on the east, on the west the
Sierra of Napa; at the north, the Creek of Lihuaytos, (which was
also given as the name by which the tract should be designated,)
and the extent ten sitios de ganado mayor. Prior to this grant,
a sketch or map was furnished, according to the law, as is shown
in the recitals of the grant.
The grant was made, as expressed in it, subject to "the measurements to be made of contiguous ranchos," and the juridical
possession to be given after the confirmation of the grant.
Among the contiguous ranchos, on the same creek or river, and
which lad not been measured, was that of William Wolfskill.
Between the claimants and Wolfskill a dispute of boundary
arose, which prevented the lands of either from being measured,
which continued till 1845.
In 1845, the dispute was settled by proceedings had before the
proper authorities, in which it was agreed that Wolfskill should
remain with the lands that he claimed on the upper part of the
creek, and Vaca and Pefia should take theirs adjoining his on
the east.
Vaca and Peffa petitioned to Governor Pico for a new grant,
corresponding to the agreement, and producing the former grant
as a foundation for it.

557

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.
The United States v. Larkin et al.

The governor made the grant according to the agreement,
bounding the rancho by the eastern limits of Wolfskill, and subject to the measurement to be made of the contiguous ranchos
previously conceded.
The prior proceedings and decree of concession were passed
to the departmental assembly, and the concession was approved,
under the condition that within four months they should put in
the hands of the governor a proper map of the land.
The grant by Pico designated the tract as "Los Putos." The
stream of Los Putos" is the same called in the former grant
"Lihuaytos."
It is not worth while to inquire whether the departmental
assembly had any authority to annex new conditions to the grant
thus approved by them. It is a condition subsequent, which, at
the worst, only left the title of the.grantee open to be denounced.
But as the claimant was hindered from performing it by the
revolutionary state of the country, the non-fulfilment of it will
not work a forfeiture of his title.
The chief objection urged to this grant, is the want of a survey, and that there is no sufficient designation of boundaries to
sever it from the public domain. It is a sufficient answer to this,
that the quantity is defined and the general locality. The
claimant had been in possession before applying for the grant
under a license from Vallejo; the tract was known by the desigIt was to be located
nation of "Los Putos," or "Lihuaytos."
on the eastern boundary of Wolfskill, and on the margin of the
river.
The district court confirmed the grant on the authority of the
case of Fremont v. United States, 17 How. 542. As that case is
directly in point and overrules the objections made to this grant,
we do not think it necessary to pursue the subject further.
The decree of the district court is affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.
For the reasons of his dissent see the preceding case of Arguello v. The United States.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. THOmAS

0.

LARKIN AND

JoMn S. MIssRooN.
Where there was a grant of land in California made by the governor to the secretary
of the government, and neither the petition nor the patent .tated the quantity, but
the -*nee-ion and direction by the governor to the proper officer to issue the patcnt, limLte,a the quantity to eleven square leagues, this concession and direction
47*

