126

SUPREME COURT.
Ham'v. State of Missouri.

Large, vol. ix. p. 378. It does not clearly appear in whose hands
the proceeds of the sale of The Admittance and her cargo were
at the date of the above statute. But if they were in the possession of Captain Montgomery at or after that time, either as captor
or prize-master, or whether they were in the hands of any other
person, it was within the scope and objects of the law to place
the proceeds of the prize sale in the treasury of the United
States; and accordingly it is shown by the certificate of the
treasurer of the United States, that the sum of sixty-seven thousand dollars, as the proceeds of the sale of The Admittance, were
on the 26th of December, 1849, by William Speiden, purser of
the navy of the United States, deposited in the treasury of the
United States.
Upon a consideration of the facts and the law of this case,
we are of the opinion that the decree of the circuit court be
affirmed.

ADAx HAi,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

Fhe act of congress passed on the 6th of March, 1820, (3 Stats. at Large, 547,) accepted by an ordinance declaring the assent of the people of Missouri thereto,
adopted on the 19th of July, 1820, granted to the State for the use of schools the
sixteenth section of every township in the State, which had not been sold or otherwise disposed of.
This expression, ,"otherwise disposed of," does not include the case of an imperfect
title, claimed to be derived from the Spanish governor, which had been rejected by
the board of commissioners in 1811.
The claim was confirmed in 1828 so far as to relinquish all the title which the United
States then had ; but at that time the United States had no title, having granted the
land to Missouri in 1820, which they had a right to do.
The proviso in the act of March 3, 1811, which forbade lands claimed before the
board of commissioners from being offered for sale until after the decision of congress thereon, did not prevent a donation for schools, and, moreover, contemplated
only a temporary suspension for the purposes of investigation.

THIS case was brought up from the supreme court of the State
of Missouri, by a writ'of error issued under the 25th section of
the judiciary act.
It is fully stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by .M2r. Geyer, for the plaintiff in error, no counsel appearing for the defendant.
_Mr. Geyer made the following points:1. The reservation by the act of March 3, 1811, is something
more than "a direction" to the officers to refrain from selling
the land claimed. It severed the land embraced by the claim
from the public domain, and appropriated it to the satisfaction

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.
Ham

v. State of

127

Missouri.

of the claim in the event of confirmation; being so set apart and
appropriated, it was "disposed of," and therefore not granted nor
promised to be granted by the act of March 6, 1820.
2. The State did not acquire a complete title to the 16th section by force of the compact, even where the land had not been
sold, reserved, appropriated, or otherwise disposed of; in such case
it was reserved and appropriated to the use of schools ; "but the
title to the land being still in the United States, could be passed
by the government to any person for any consideration," and in
this case was passed by the confirmatory act of May 24, 1828,
and the patent deed of the United States of March 25, 1839.
The propositions offered to the convention having been accepted, became obligatory upon the United States; "the compact was complete between the sovereignties," and the United
States became bound to grant and convey the lands embraced
by the first proposition, but there is no present conveyance, no
word of present grant, and, therefore, no complete title vested
by the terms of the compact.
The engagement on the part of the United States is executory, precisely as is the obligation to perfect inchoate titles, or to
make a final decision thereon, and hold the lands reserved by
law to abide the decision. No time is appointed for the fulfilment of the engagement in either case, and in both the title
remains in the United States, subject to the legislative power
of congress.
3. The second proviso in the confirmatory act, (repeated in
the patent,) to which some importance was attached by the supreme court of Missouri in this case, has no effect whatever
upon the title of either party. The act and patent, if they have
any effect whatever, pass all the title which the United States
had or could convey at the date, and no form of conveyance
could accomplish more. Neither the confirmatory act nor thle
patent would prejudice the rights of third persons, nor any title
theretofore derived from the United States, by purchase or donation, if the proviso had been omitted; ut while the rights and
titles of others are not prejudiced or impaired, they are not enlarged or improved. The executory engagement of the 6th of
March, 1820, is not executed or converted into a complete title
of that date by the saving, in the confirmatory act and patent.
If the legal title was not vested in the State by the compact, it
remained in the United States until it was vested in the claimants by the confirmatory act and patent, and the grantees are not
liable to be indicted and punished for entering upon the land
granted, by reason of the proviso.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.

128

SUPREME COURT.
Ham v. State of Missouri.

Upon a writ of error to the supreme court of the State, under
the authority of the 25th section of the judiciary act.
The proceedings now under review were founded upon an indictment in the circuit court of the county of St. Francis, against
the plaintiff in error, for having committed waste and trespass on
the sixteenth section of lands situated in congressional township
number thirty-four, range seven east, as being school lands belonging to the inhabitants of the township aforesaid.
Upon this indictment the plaintiff was convicted, and condemned to pay a fine assessed by the jury, of four hundred
dollars, together with the costs of the prosecution. From the
judgment of the circuit court, the plaintiff in error having taken
an appeal to the supreme court of Missouri,. by the latter tribunal
that judgment was in all things affirmed; the same plaintiff now
seeks its reversal here, in virtue of several acts of congress alleged
to be applicable to this case.
Upon the trial in the circuit court, the following facts were
either established in proof or admitted by the parties: 1. A joint petition on the part of Jean Batiste Vall6, and the
heirs of Francois Vall, Jean Batiste Pratte, and St. Geunne
Beauvais, presented on the 15th of October, 1800, to Delassus,
the lieutenant-governor of upper Louisiana, praying for a grant
of two leagues square of land on the River St. Franois, includla Motte, and the
ing the mine, known by the name of Mine
lands adjacent.
2. An acknowledgment by the lieutenant-governor, dated
January 22, 1801, of his want of power to grant a concession
of the extent prayed for, and the fact of his having transmitted
the petition to the intendant-general, with the expression of an
opinion favorable to the grant, and to the character of the applicants.
3. An order by the intendant-general, that the documents presented in behalf of the petitioners should be translated into the
Castilian language, and then be laid before the fiscal agent.
4. A plat and survey for 28,224 arpens, or 24,142 acres of
land, situated on the river St. Francis, certified by Nathaniel
Cook, as deputy surveyor of the district of St. Genevieve, said
by him to have been made by virtue of a concession by Delassus
to J. B. and Franois Valld, Beauvais, and Pratte, on the 22d of
January, 1801.
5. The proceedings of the board of commissioners for the examination of land titles, on the 27th of December, 1811, setting
forth the claim of Jean Batiste and Francois Vall, Jean Batiste
Pratte, and St. Geunne Beauvais, for two leagues of land, including the La Motte Mine, founded on the recommendation
from Lieutenant-Governor Delassus for a concession, bearing

DECEMBER

TERM, 1855.

129

Ham v. State of Missouri.

date on the 22d of January, 1801, and the order of the intendantgeneral already mentioned, and the rejection of the claim by the
commissioners.
6. The first section of an act of congress, approved May 24,
1828, confirming to Frangois Valld, Jean Batiste Vall'6, Jean
Batiste Pratt, and St. Geunne Beauvais, their heirs or legal
representatives, a tract of land not exceeding two leagues square,
situated in the county of Madison in the State of Missouri,
commonly known by the name of the Mine la Motte, according
to a field-plat and survey made by Nathaniel Cook, deputy surveyor of St. Genevieve, on the 22d day of February, 1806, with
a proviso in the said first section, that :the confirmation thus
granted shall extend only to a relinqudshment of title on the
part of the United States, nor prejudice the rights of third persons, nor any title heretofore derived from the United States,
either by purchase or donation.
7. A plat and survey made by Jenifer Sprigg, deputy-surveyor,
in the months of March, 1829, and August, 1830, of the La
Motte Mine tract of land, stated to contain 23,728.02 acres of
land, confirmed to Franois Vall6, Jean Batiste Val, Jean
Batiste Pratte, by an act of congress approved on the 24th of
December, 1828.
8. A patent from the President of the United States, bearing
date on the 25th of March, 1839, granted under the authority
of the act of congress last mentioned, (and in virtue of' a title
derived from the confirmees,) to Lewis F. Linn and Evariste
Pratte, for the La Motte Mine, and the land surrounding the
same, containing 23,728.02 acres of land, in conformity with the
survey of Sprigg, as certified from the general land-office; this
patent, containing literally the proviso in the act of congress
limiting the grant to the patentees, to a relinquishment of the
title of the United States at the date of the act of congress of
1828.
9. An admission on the part of the State, that all the right,
title, and claim of the original proprietors of the Mine la Motte
tract of land had regularly passed to and was vested in Thomas
Fleming, as fully as those proprietors had or could have had the
same.
10. A lease from Thomas Fleming, of the 9th of April, 1849,
to Ham, the plaintiff in error, for a portion of the Mine la Motte
land.
11. An admission further on the part of the State, that the
sixteenth section claimed as school lands, was within the lines
of the original survey of the tract made by Nathaniel Cook,
and of the other surveys given in evidence.
Upon the trial of the indictment, the circuit court, at the in-

130

SUPREME COURT.
Ham v. State of Missouri.

stance of the counsel for the State, instructed the jury, "that
the act of the 6th of March, 1820, entitled 'An act to authorize
the people of Missouri Territory to form a constitution and state
government, &c.,' taken in connection with an ordinance declaring the assent thereto by the people of Missouri, by their
representatives assembled in convention on the 19th of July,
1820, operated as a grant by congress to the State of Missouri
for the use of schools, of the 16th section in controversy, unless
such 16th section had been previously disposed of by government.
"That, although the land claimed by the proprietors of Mine
la Motte was, by the several acts of congress, reserved from sale,
and that the survey of said claim includes the 16th section in
controversy, yet such reservation is not such disposition of said
section by the government, as is within the saving clause of the
6th section of the act of 1820, and cannot operate to prevent the
title from vesting in the State, by virtue of said grant."
The defendant in the prosecution prayed of the court the following instructions, which were refused: โข' That if the jury believe the land in question is included
within the original grant by the Spanish government, and within
the lines of the survey made by N. Cook, in 1806, and within
the lines of the lands confirmed by the act of congress to the
original grantees and those claiming under them, then this land
never was public land, subject or liable to be donated by congress to the State for the use of schools.
"That the several acts of congress reserving section 16 for
the support of schools, could only refer to the public lands proper,
and could not attach to private claims, which had previous to
such donation been claimed by individuals, and reserved by
congress to satisfy those claims.
"That the confirmation of the claim by the act of congress
of 1828 conferred and gave a superior title to the lands in question, over the title of the State for the use of schools."
Upon the accuracy or inaccuracy of the instructions given by
the court at the instance of the State, and of those denied by it
upon the prayer of the defendant in the prosecution, the decision
of this cause must depend.
It would seem not to admit of rational doubt, that the act of
congress, of March 6, 1820, authorizing the people of the Territory of Missouri to form a constitution and state government,
taken in connection with the ordinance of the state convention
of the 19th of July, 1820, amounted not merely to a grant for
the use of schools, of th6 16th section of every township of
public lands in the Territory, but, further, to a positive condition
or mandate, so far as congress possessed the power to impose it,
for the dedication of those sections to that object. The assertion

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

131

Ham v. State of Missouri.
of the court, then, of the existence and character of such grant,
whilst it recognized any proper limitation or qualification imposed
thereon, either by previous acts of congress or by the investiture
of any rights arising therefrom, can be obnoxious to no just criticism, but was in all respects proper.
Whether or not the lands claimed by the proprietors of the
Mine Ia Motte, so far as they cover a portion of the sixteenth section of township 34, range 7 east, are exempted from the operation of the act of March 6, 1820, and of the ordinance of July 19,
1820, must depend upon the correct interpretation of the previous
legislation of congress, and upon the acts and position of the
claimants with reference to that legislation.
By the 10th section of the act of congress, approved March 3,
1811, authorizing the President of the United States to offer for
sale such portions of the public lands lying in the State of
Louisihna as shall have been surveyed under the direction of the
8th section of the same statute, it is provided, that "all such
lands, with the exception of section number sixteen, which shall
be reserved in each township for the use of schools," (and with
the exception, further, of a township of land granted by the 7th
section of the same statute for the use of a seminary of learning, and of certain salt-springs and lead-mines,) " shall be
offered for sale to the highest bidder, under the direction of the
register of the land-office, the receiver of public moneys, and
principal deputy-surveyor." In this 10th section is contained a
proviso, "that till after the decision of congress thereon, no-tract
of land shall be offered for sale, the claim to which has been in
due time and according to law presented to the recorder of land
titles in the district of Louisiana, and filed in his office for the
purpose of being investigated by the commissioners appointed to
ascertain the rights of persons claiming lands in the Territory of
Louisiana."
Upon this 10th section of the act of 1811, and the proviso
thereto annexed, is founded the position taken by the plaintiff in
error, that the sixteenth section of township 34 did not, and could
not, vest in the State of Missouri, in virtue of the act of March
3, 1820, and of the ordinance of July 19 of the same year, so far
as that section fell within the proviso. In comparing the enacting part of ยง 10 of the statute of 1811 with the proviso annexed
thereto, it will strike the attention, that the limitation or restriction contained in the proviso has no connection, by its terms,
with lands granted or donated for schools, but relates altogether
to such lands as it was designed and declared should be sold at
public auction to the highest bidder.
Such, certainly, were not the lands appropriated to a specific,
ultimate, and permanent purpose, namely, the support of schools.

132

SUPREME COURT.
Ham v. State of Missouri.

As to these lands, sales, and every other disposition inconsistent
with such dedication, were expressly inhibited. But, putting
aside the literal meaning of the 10th section and its proviso, it
may well be asked whether the language and objects of the latter
can be made to import anything beyond a temporary suspension
of the sales of the lands intended for sale, for the simple purposes
of investigation ; and much more, whether the 10th section of the
act of 1811, and the proviso thereto, can be interpreted to mean
a denial to itself by congress of tle right and power to sell or to
give, either upon satisfactory evidence of the invalidity of any
opposing claim, or upon considerations of public policy, the land
embraced within the suspension.
Such an interpretation, as it is not warranted by the language
of the acts of congress, seems not to accord either with considerations of justice or policy. Suppose that congress, after the
passage of the law of 1811, should become satisfied of the groundless nature of a claim presented to the commissioners, and should
be convinced further, not only of the benefits to result from appropriating the subject of that claim to purposes of education, but
also. of their having pledged that subject to such purposes; it
cannot be questioned that the power to reject or disregard an unfounded claim, and to comply with a previous and just obligation,
remained in a plenary and unimpaired extent in congress; and
that this right and obligation could in no degree be affected by a
mere agreement to investigate.
Let it be remembered, too, that the application of those under
whom the plaintiff in error deduces his alleged title was for a
simple gratuity, founded on no consideration whatever but tie
bounty of the donor. The opinion and the action by congress
With respect to the rights of the parties to that controversy seem
to have been entirely coincident with the views herein suggested.
Under the provision of the act of 1811, the proprietors of the
Mine la Motte presented their claim, together with such evidence
as they deemed essential to its support, to the tribunal created by
law for the investigation of land titles. By this tribunal, the
claim of these proprietors was rejected on the 27th of December,
1811. From the period last mentioned until the 24th of May,
1828, an interval of seventeen years, this claim remains dormant
or quiescent, when it is confirmed at the date last mentioned.
The nature and effect of this confirmation will presently be
considered; but in the interval above mentioned, the government, (the undoubted possessor of the title,) after the lapse of
nine years from the rejection by its agent of this slumbering
title, by express compact with the State of Missouri, grants to
that State, for the use of schools, the sixteenth section of every
township in the State which had not been sold "or otherwise
disposed of."

DECEMBER TERM, 1855.

133

Ham v. State of Missouri.

Upon recurring to the law of May 24, 1828, it will be borne in
mind that the confirmation to the proprietors of the Mine la Motte
is extended merely to a relinquishment of the title of the United
States at the date of that law, and is declared to have no influence
to prejudice the rights of third persons, nor any title heretofore
derived from the United States, either by purchase or donation.
It is proper to keep in view this proviso in this confirmation,
in order to ascertain its effect, if any, upon the proper meaning
of the qualification in the grant to the State of Missouri comprised in the phrase "or otherwise disposed of."
In our construction of the act of congress of March 3, 1811,
we have interpreted the proviso to the 10th section of that act
as neither declaring nor importing a final and permanent devestiture, or any devestiture whatsoever, of the title of the United
States, but as a provision prescribing a temporary arrangement
merely for the purposes of investigation, leaving the title still'in
the government, to be retained or parted with according to the
dictates of justice or policy, as these might be developed by such
investigation. Nothing is here ordained which is definite in its
character. Inquiry is all that is directed. The language and
plain import of the 6th section of the act of the 3d of March,
1820, confer a clear and positive and unconditional donation of
the sixteenth section in every township; and, when these have
been sold or otherwise disposed of, other and equivalent lands
are granted. Sale, necessarily signifying a legal sale by a competent authority, is a disposition, final and irrevocable, of the
land. The phrase "or otherwise disposed of" must signify
some disposition of the property equally efficient, and equally
incompatible with any right in the State, present or potential, as
deducible from the act of 1820, and the ordinance of the same
year. Upon any other hypothesis, the right to the sixteenth seetion would attach under the provision of the act of 1820; the
State would still have the title, and could recover the section
specifically, and there would be no necessity for providing for an
equivalent for that section.
Under our interpretation of the acts of March 3, 1811, and
of May 24, 1828, no title can have passed to the proprietors of
the La Motte Mine lands. The reply of the lieutenant-governor,
Delassus, to the petition of the applicants for the mine, acknowledges explicitly the absence of all power in that officer to make
the grant asked for, and refers those petitioners to the intendantgeneral, as the only functionary possessing authority to make it.
This officer took no further action upon the petition than to order
its translation into the Castilian language.
Oii the 27th of December, 1811, this claim was before the
commissioners for the examination of land titles in the State.of
VOL. XViii.

12

SUPREME

COURT.

Ham v. State of Missouri.

Louisiana, and was rejected by them. From this period of time
down to the 24th of May, 1828, no grant from the United States,
nor evidences of title from any source, except those already referred to, have been shown by the plaintiff or those under whom
he claims. In the mean time, the United States, the undoubted
legal owners of the land in controversy, by the act of March 3,
1820, bestow it on the State, as they had full authority so to do,
-bestow the specific section, it never having *been disposed of
within the intent and meaning of the 6th section of the act last
mentioned.
The confirmation in 1828, and the patent of the 25th of
March, 1839, professing to confer no title but such as remained
in the United States at those periods respectively, and the grant
of the sixteenth section in township 34, range east, comprised
within the survey of the Mine la Motte, having been made seven
years anterior to the confirmation, which constitutes the only
ground of title in the claimants of the mine, the pretensions of
the confirmees to the section in controversy must be regarded as
without foundation and utterly null.
The view which this court has taken of the evidence in this
cause, and of the law as applicable to that evidence, dispenses
with any necessity for an examination seriatim of the instructions asked by the plaintiff in error upon the trial of the indictment, and refhsed by the court. It is sufficient to remark, that
the positions assumed in the instructions so prayed for, being incompatible with the law of this case as expounded by this court,
we deem those instructions to have been properly refused. It is
the opinion of this court, that the decision of the supreme court
of the State of Missouri, pronounced in this cause, sustaining
that of the circuit court, is correct, and ought to be, as it is
hereby, affirmed.
Mr. Justice NELSON. I concur in the judgment of the
court upon the ground that, though the 10th section of the act
of March 3, 1811, had the effect to prevent the title of Missouri
to this land from vesting, until the final decision by congress
upon the claim of Vall6 and others, yet the act of May 24, 1828,
confirming lands to Vall and others, operatwd as such final decision, and, by its true construction, excepted out of the confirmation so much of the land as was included in section sixteen,
the public surveys of the township having been made before the
passage of the last-mentioned act. I do not know that the
opinion of the court is intended to go further than this. If it
does, I do not assent thereto.
Mr. Justice CURTIS concurred with Mr. Justice Nelson.
Mr. Justice GRIER also concurred with Mr. Justice Nelson.

