Oct. 1874.]

GROSHOLZ v. N EWMAN.
Statement of the case.

GROSHOLZ V. N'EWMAN.

1. A mere intention to make a lot adjoining one on which a man and wife
have their dwelling-the two lots being separated only by a small alleya part of a homestead, and the subsequent actual building of a kitchen on
such adjoining lot, will not make that lot part of the homestead, within
the laws of Texas, if. before the building of the kitchen, the husband,
then owner of the lot, have sold and conveyed it to another person.
2. Where adverse possession is relied on to give title, and it is proved that
such possession began "in the summer" of a certain year, and ended
in the tenth year afterwards (ten years
day of -i"
"on the making the bar), the title is not made out; especially in a case where
indications lead to the conclusion that it ended in the sVringof the tenth
year.
S. Where one having a title to two lots purchased from the State, but for
which he has as yet no patent, makes a deed of them, in form absolute,
to another, and then subsequently twice mortgages them, with a third
lot, which he owns, to that other, the grantee of that other is not
estopped by his grantor's acceptance of the mortgages of the three lots,
to assert ownership, under the deed in form absolute, of the two.
4. Where a complainant in equity wishes to rely on the fact that a deed, in
form absolute, was in reality a mortgage, which has been paid, he must
allege the fact in his bill.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Western District
of Texas.
By the constitution of Texas, on the subject of "The
Homestead," it is ordained that "the owner thereof, if a
married man, shall not be at liberty to alienate the same
unless by the consent of the wife," &c.*
With the abovementioned provision of the constitution
of Texas in force, one Gustavus Kirchberg, a blacksmith, and
Catherine, his wife, went from Pennsylvania, A.D. 1849, to
the city of Austin, Texas, and immediately bought lot 6 in
block 111 in the city named. On the east or Avenue side
of the lot they soon built a smith's shop, and on the extreme
back o; rear edge of the lot they put their dwelling-house.
See the diagram on the following page.
* See the whole subject presented in Paschall's Digest of Decisions, vol.
2, title "Homestead," H 14,537, 14,538, 14,589-14,591; also in The Homestead Cases, 81 Texas, 684.

VOL. X .

al

GROSHOLZ V. NEWMAN.

[Sup. ot,

Statement of the case.

In this same block 111 were lots 7 and 8; these lots being
separated from lot 6 by an intervening alley 20 feet wide.
Main Street.

I

Lot6.
o

7.

A
S.

fl

Lot 8.

BLOCK 111.

In June, 1850, Mrs. Kirchberg, writing to her sister at
Philadelphia, said:
"Our affairs are good, and now we are building. We have a
lot in the main street in Austin, and we will buy the adjoining
one for a garden. Our dwelling will be finished in four weeks.
The well is also dug and there is good water. The shop has
also been commenced, so we are now busily engaged until we
have everything in order."
In December, 1850, Kirchberg purchased from the State
the two lots 7 and 8, above described; his purchase being
entered upon the State records, but he getting no patent for
the lots.
In November, 1851, without his wife's consent, he executed to one Wahrenberger, for the consideration, as expressed, of $150, a conveyance in form absolute of these lots
7 and 8.
After this deed was made, that is to say in the summer of
1852, Kirchberg and his wife erected upon the extreme rear
or east end of lot 7 their kitchen, which was thereby placed
just in the rear of their dwelling and with nothing but the

Oct. 1.874.]

GROSHOLZ V. NEWMAN.
Statement of the case.

twenty feet wide alley intervening. And in 1853, a tenant
of Kirchberg erected on lot 8 a house used by him as a
dwelling for some months, and afterwards by Kirchberg as
a brewery; he having by this time given up the trade of a
blacksmith for the business of brewing. The diagram explains the matter of places.
In June, 1856, the husband and wife conveyed lots 6, 7,
and 8, to one Costa, in trust, to secure the payment of a
promissory note of $435, of Kirchberg's, then held by the
Wabrenberger above-named.
And on the 1st of March, 1860, they executed another
deed of the same lots to the same Costa, to secure a note of
Kirchberg's then held by Wahrenberger for $496. This
second trust-deed, it was not denied, was in cancellation of
the debt which was secured by the former one; that of
June, 1856.
By the terms of both these trust-deeds, Costa had power
to sell all the lots if the notes were not paid; but if they
were paid the deeds were to become void. Both notes were
paid.
Kirchberg having died prior to 1861 without issue, all his
property vested in his wife, and she having died some time
in 1862 her property passed to her heirs; persons, as was
alleged, named Grosholz.
Wahrenberger subsequently sold the lots 7 and 8 to one
Newman, and the family Grosholz alleging heirship, now,
May, 1870, filed a bill againt Newman in the court below to
have the deed of November, 1851 (the deed of lots 7 and 8
executed by the husband alone), set aside as having covered
in terms lots 7 and 8 (which were alleged in the bill to be a
part of the homestead); as having really conveyed nothing,
but as being nevertheless a cloud on the true title.
A patent from the State issued in 1869, "to the heirs of
Gustavus Kirchberg," and on this the family Grosholz had
previously brought an action at law (trespass to try title),
which was determined against them, ahd about the identity
of which with the present case some evidence was given
below.

GROSHOLZ v. NEWMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

At the time of her death in 1862 Mrs. Kirchberg was in
possession of lots 7 and 8, and apparently either her husband or she had been continuously and notoriously so since
the summer of 1852, when the kitchen was built on lot 7.
The bill alleged that by the laws of Texas the husband
could not convey any part of the homestead without the
wife's assent; that the assent of the complainant, the wife
of Kircbberg, had not been given to his conveyance in November, 1851, of the lots 7 and 8; that the homestead was
composed of all three lots 6, 7, and 8 alike; that previous
to the purchase of lots 7 and 8, the said Gustavus and Catherine iKirchberg had no kitchen or other tenement upon lot
6 or elsewhere, excepting their dwelling at the extreme rear
edge of lot 6 as aforesaid; and that the purchase and acquisition of lots 7 and 8 were made with the intention and for the
express purpose of designating and using them as parts of the
homestead.
The bill further averredThat "down to the death of the said Catherine, on or
about the day of -,
1862," her husband or herself
from the summer of 1852 had open, notorious, and continued
adverse possession of lots 7 and 8:
That by the deeds of trust and the facts connected therewith, it appeared that Wahrenberger for many years after
the making of the absolute deed to him, and notwithstanding it, fully recognized the absolute right and title of the
husband and wife to those two lots, and dealt with them
about the lots as owners, receiving for his benefit the deeds
executed to Costa by them for his benefit; and that he was,
therefore, estopped from setting up title under the deed of
November, 1851, absolute on its face. But the bill nowhere
charged that the deed was a mortgage, nor offered to redeem
as if it were, nor alleged that it had as a mortgage been paid.
The answer declared ignorance of the intention or purpose with which the purchase and acquisition of lots 7 and
8 had been made; asserted on belief and information that
part of the purchase-money for them was paid by Wahren-

Oct. 1874.]

GROSHOLZ V. NEWMAN.
Argument for the party asserting a homestead.

berger, though the entry of purchase was in Kirchberg's
name alone; asserted the bonafides and legal efficacy from its
date in November, 1851, of the deed of that date from Kirchberg to Wahrenberger conveying them to the latter, and of
the mesne conveyances from Wahrenberger to the defendant;
denied that either lot 7 or lot 8 was ever really part of the
homestead; denied that lot 7 was ever even used as part of
the homestead till 1852, after the making of the deed to Wahrenberger; denied that lot 8 was ever even used as part of the
homestead at all. Admitted the death of Mrs. Kirchberg
"on the day of A.D. 1862, intestate;" did not admit the heirship of the complainants, and finally denied the
effect of the trust-deeds asserted by the complainants.
As the adverse possession was not admitted to have begun
prior to the summer of 1862, its value as a bar (which in
Texas is ten years), depended, of course, on the fact whether
Mrs. Kirchberg, who, it was admitted, died "on the day
of A.D. 1862," died prior to the summer of that year.
There was no specific evidence to that point. However,
there were several complainants, and it was, of course, necessary'to prove their heirship to Mrs. Kirchberg at the time
of her death. Depositions of different parties were taken to
prove the heirship of the complainants; this being one of
the complainants' interrogatories:
"If the wife of Gustavus Kirchberg had in the spring of 1862
any father, mother, or brothers and sisters, or descendants of
deceased brothers or sisters, state fully who all such kindred
were, and show the degree of relationship between them and
her. State also the residence of each of such kindred."
And the heirship of the complainants in the spring of 1862
seemed to be established.
The court below dismissed the bill, and the complainants
brought the case here.
Mr. G. W. Paschall,for the appellants, enforcing the points
of "the homestead," adverse possession, &c., made in the
bill and already stated, argued in addition that plainly the

GROSHOLZ V. NEWMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

deed of November, 1851, was but a mortgage; that obvi
ously Kirchberg had owed money to Wabrenberger; that the
deed of 1851 was given to secure this money; that the possession taken by the husband and wife of the lots 7 and 8
in 1852, and their building a kitchen and other houses ol
them and keeping possession, indicated this, and that it was
made undeniable by Wahrenberger's accepting two mortgages at different times on the lot, subsequently to the deed
of 1851, since a mortgage given to him on his own property
would be senseless; and that this was what the bill meant,
in asserting that the defendants were estopped to set up the
deed.
Messrs. John Hancock and C. S. West, contra, argued that
no family could acquire a homestead by building on lots
which belonged to other persons; and insisted upon the
fact that the deed of November, 1851; was an absolute deed;
that the bill did not charge it to be a mortgage, and made
neither allegation of payment nor offer to redeem; that if
it were in fact a mortgage Newman was apparently a bond
fide purchaser for value of a title regular on its face, and
there absolute; and that finally, under the laws of Texas,
the plaintiff was concluded by the judgment in the action at
law, of trespass to try title.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The first objection alleged against the deed which the
complainants ask to have cancelled is, that it was made for
the purpose of conveying a part of the homestead of the
Kirchbergs, and, as such, was void because the wife did not
join with the husband in its execution.
It is admitted that the deed was good, if the lots described
in it were not, in fact, a part of the homestead at the time
of its execution. It rests upon the complainants, therefore,
to prove that they were. To do this it must be made to appear that they were actually used, or manifestly intended to
be used as part of the home of the family. This has not
been done. The lots were purchased in 1850, but not occu-

Oct. 1874.]

GROSHOLZ V. NEWMAN.
Opinion of the court.

pied until 1852. Then a small building was erected upon
one of them, and it was thereafter occupied in connection
with the family residence. This was after the deed was
made, and, of course, cannot control its operation. Mrs.
Kirchberg, in a letter written to her sister in Pennsylvania,
in June, 1850, says, "we have a lot on Main Street, in Austin, and will buy the adjoining one as a garden," but there
is no proof that the intention of connecting this adjoining
lot with the home was in any manner manifested in Austin
until long after the deed in question was executed and delivered. A secret intention of the seller, not made known,
cannot affict a purchaser. Unless the purchaser knew, or
from the circumstances ought to have known, that the lots
were a part of the homestead, he had the right to treat with
and purchase from the husband without the concurrence of
his wife.
It is next alleged that the Kirchbergs occupied the premises adversely to the grantee for more than ten years after
the execution of the deed, and that therefore the title under
it has failed.
The burden of proving this allegation also rests upon the
complainants. It is shown that the occupation of the Kirchbergs was continuous, and probably adverse, from the time
of the building of the kitchen upon lot 7 until the death
of Mrs. Kirchberg. The kitchen was built in the summer
of 1852, and so far as appears from the testimony, the adverse occupation did not commence until then. To create
the bar it must have continued until the summer of 1862.
Mrs. Kirchberg died in that year, but there is nothing to
show at what time in the year. It is several times stated in
the bill that she died "on the

-

day of

-,

1862," and

the answer, as many times, admits the statement in the same
language. No witness gives the exact date, but as several
were examined by the complainants to show what relatives
Mrs. Kitchberg had living in the spring of 1862, it is fair to
presume that was the time of her death. But however this
may be, as the complainants have failed to prove that she

TEXAS V. CHILES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

did not die before the summer of that year, this part of
their case fails.
It is next insisted in the bill, but not in the argument, that
the defendants are estopped from setting up the deed in
question by reason of the trust deeds to Costa, executed
afterwards by the Kirchbergs at the request of Wahrenberger,
to secure the debt due to him, and that, therefore, it should
be cancelled.
This is in direct conflict with the uniform current of decisions in this court, commencing with Blight's Lessee v.
Rochester,* and ending with Merynian v. -Bourne.t
It is next urged in the argument that the deed was given
as a mortgage to secure a debt which has been paid.
There is no allegation in the bill to support this claim.
The recovery must be had upon the case made by the pleadings or not at all.
It is unnecessary to consider the effect, under the laws of
Texas, of the judgment in the action of trespass instituted
by the complainants to try their title to the property.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

TEXAS V. CHILES.
1. The purpose of the act of Congress (Revised Statutes, 858) enacting that
"in courts of the United States no witness sball be excluded . . . in any civil
action, because he is a party to or interested in the issue to be tried, Provided,"
&c., was to put the parties to a suit (except those named in a proviso to
the enactment) on a footing of equality with other witnesses; that is to
say, to make all admissible to testify for themselves, and all compellable
to testify for others.
2. An order accordingly made for a subpcena to a defendant in equity, in
order that his deposition might be taken for the complainant.

THIS was an application for an order that a subpogna issue
for John Chiles, the defendant in the case of Texas v. Chiles
*7 Wheaton, 535.

t- 9 Wallace; 600.

