HOTCHKISS V. NATIONAL BANKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

HOTCHKISS V. NATIONAL BANKS.
1. In May, 1863, the Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company issued
coupon bonds, by each of which the company acknowledged its indebtedness to certain persons named, or bearer, in the sum of $1000, and
promised to pay the amount to the bearer on the 1st day of January,
1893, at the office of the company in the city of New York, with semiannual interest at the rate of seven per cent. per annum, on the presentation and surrender of the coupons annexed as they severally became
due. Immediately following this acknowledgment of indebtedness and
promise of payment, there was in each of the instruments a further
agreement of the company to make what was termed "Ithe scrip preferred stock," attached to the bond, full-paid stock at any time within
ten days after any dividend should have been declared and become payable on such preferred stock, upon surrender, in the city of New York,
of the bond and the unmatured interest warrants. To each of the bonds
there was originally attached by a pin the certificate of scrip preferred
stock thus referred to, which stated that the complainant was entitled to
ten shares of the capital stock of the company, designated as "scrip
preferred stock;" and that upon the surrender of the certificate and
accompanying bond, and all unmatured coupons thereon, as provided
in the agreement, he should be entitled to receive ten shares of full-paid
preferred stock. Three of these bonds with certificates attached were
stolen from the plaintiff, and were taken by the defendants as collateral
security for notes discounted by them, without actual notice of any defect in the title of the holder; but the certificates were at the time detached from the bonds: Held, 1st, that the bonds were negotiable instruments notwithstanding the agreement respecting the scrip preferred
stock contained in them, that agreement being independent of the pecuniary obligation of the company; and, 2d, that the absence of the certificates originally attached to the bonds, when the latter were taken by
the defendants, was not of itself a circumstance sufficient to put the.
defendants upon inquiry as to the title of the holder.
2. The title of a person who takes negotiable paper before due for a valuable
consideration can only be defeated by showing bad faith in him, which
implies guilty knowledge or wilful ignorance of the facts impairing the
title of the party from whom he received it; and the burden of proof
lies on the assailant of the taker's title.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the Southern District

of New York.
This was a suit to compel the defendants to surrender to
the complainant three coupon bonds of the Milwaukee and

St. Paul Railway Company, each for $1000, of which he

Oct. 1874.]

HOTCHRISS v. NATIONAL BANKS.
Statement of the case.

professed to be owner, and which he alleged were received
by the defendants in bad faith, with notice of his rights.
The instruments were dated May 6th, 1863; by each of
them the company acknowledges its indebtedness to certain
persons named, or bearer, in the sum designated, and promises to pay the amountto the bearer on the 1st of January,
1893, at the office of the company in the city of New York,
with semi-annual interest at the rate of seven per cent. per
annum, on the presentation and surrender of the coupons
annexed as they severally become due, with a provision that
in case of non-payment of interest for six months the whole
principal of the bond shall become due and payable.
Immediately following this acknowledgment of the indebtedness of the company and its promise of payment,
there was in each of these instruments a further agreement
of the company to make what is termed "1the scrip preferred
stock," attached to the bond, fall-paid stock at any time
within ten days after any dividend shall have been declared
and become payable on such preferred stock, upon surrender, in the city of New York, of the bond and the unmatured interest warrants.
The several instruments also stated that the bonds were
parts of a series of bonds issued by the company, amounting
to $2,200,000, and that upon the acquisition of certain other
railroads the issue of bonds might be increased in certain
designated amounts; that the bonds were executed and delivered in conformity with the laws of Wisconsin, the articles
of association of the company, the vote of the stockholders,
and resolution of the board of directors; and that the bearer
of each bond was entitled to the security derived from a mortgage of the property and franchises of the company, executed to certain designated trustees, and to the benefits to
be derived from a sinking fund, established by the mortgage, of all such sums of money as are received from the
sales of lands granted to the company by the United States
or by the State of Wisconsin.
To each of these bonds there was originally attached by
a pin the certificate of scrip preferred stock which is referred

356

HIOTCHKISS V. NATIONAL BANKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

to in the body of the instrument. This certificate was to
the effect that the complainant was entitled to ten shares of
the capital stock of the company, designated as "scrip preferred stock ;" and that upon the surrender of the certificate
and accompanying bond, and all unmatured coupons thereon,
at any time within ten days after any dividends should have
been declared and become payable on the full stock of the
preferred stocks of the company, the complainant should
be entitled to receive ten shares of such full-paid preferred
stock, and that this scrip preferred stock was only transferable on the books of the company at their office in the city
of New York, in person or by attorney, on the surrender of
the certificate.
In November, 1868, these bonds, with coupons and certificates attached, belonged to the complainant, and during
that month were stolen from a bank in Bridgeport, Connecticut, together with a large amount of other property there
on deposit. They were received in January and February,
1869, by the defendants, banking institutions in the city of
New York, as collateral security for notes discounted by
them, and were now held as such security for those notes, or
new notes given in renewal of them, and they were received
without actual notice of any defect in the holders' title. At
that time the certificates of scrip preferred stock, originally
pinned to the bonds, were detached from them.
And the questions for determination were, whether the
agreement in the instruments as to the scrip preferred stock
affected their negotiability, and whether the absence of the
certificates attached was a circumstance sufficient to put the
banks upon inquiry as to the title of the holder.
Mr. F. N. Bangs, for the appellant; Mr. J. S. Woodward,
for the Tradesmen's National Bank, one of the appellees; and
Mr. Henry N. Beach, for the National Shoe and Leather Bank
of the City of New York, another.
Mr. Justice FIELD, having stated the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:

Oct. 1874.]

HOTCHKISS V. NATIONAL BANKS.
Opinion of the court.

The character and form of the instruments which are the
subject of controversy in the present suit, would seem to
furnish an answer to the questions that are raised before
us. The agreement respecting the scrip preferred stock
is entirely independent of the pecuniary obligation contained in the instrument. The latter recites an indebtedness
in a specific sum, and promises its unconditional payment to
bearer at a specified time. It leaves nothing optional with
the company. Standing by itself it has all the elements and
essential qualities of a negotiable instrument. The special
agreement as to the scrip preferred stock in no degree
changes the duty of the company with respect either to the
principal or interest stipulated. It confers a privilege upon
the holder of the bond, upon its surrender and the surrender of the certificate attached, of obtaining fall preferred stock. His interest in and right to the full discharge
of the money obligation is in no way dependent upon the
possession or exercise of this privilege.
Whether the privilege was of any value at the time the
bonds were received by the defendants we are not informed,
nor in determining the negotiability of the bonds is the
value of the privilege a circumstance of any importance.
Its value can in no way affect the negotiable character of
the instrument. An agreement confessedly worthless, providing that upon the surrender of the bonds the holder
should receive, instead of full paid-up stock in the railway
company, stock in other companies of doubtful solvency,
would have had the same effect upon the character of the
instrument.
In Jodges v. Shuler,* which was decided by the Court of
Appeals of New York, we have an adjudication upon a
similar question. There the action was brought upon a
promissory note of the Rutland and Burlington Railway
Company, by which the company promised, four years after
date, to pay certain parties in Boston one thousand dollars,
with interest thereon semi-annually, as per interest warrants
* 22 Now York, 114.

HlOTCHKISS v. NATIONAL BANKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

attached, as the same became due; "or, upon the surrender
of this note, together with the interest warrants not due, to
the treasurer, at any time until six months of its maturity,
he shall issue to the holders thereof ten shares in the capital
stock in said company in exchange therefor, in which case
interest shall be paid to the date to which a dividend of
profits shall have been previously declared, the holder not
being entitled to both interest and accruing profits during
the same period."
It was contended that the instrument was not in terms or
legal effect a negotiable promissory note, but a mere agreement, and that the indorsement of it operated only as a
mere transfer, and not as an engagement to fulfil the contract of the company in case of its default. But the Court
of Appeals held otherwise. "The possibility seems to have
been contemplated," says the court, "that the owner of the
note might, before its maturity, surrender it in exchange for
stock, thus cancelling it and its money promise, but that
promise was nevertheless absolute and unconditional, and
was as lasting as the note itself. In no event could the
holder require money and stock. It was only upon a surrender of the note that he was to receive stock, and the
money payment did not mature until six months after the
holder's right to exchange the note for stock had expired.
We are of opinion that the instrument wants none of the
essential requirements of a negotiable promissory note. It
was an absolute and unconditional engagement to pay money
on a fixed day, and although an election was given to the
promisees, upon a surrender of the instrument six months
before its maturity, to exchange it for stock, this did not
alter its character or make the promise in the alternative in
the sense in which that word is used in respect to promises
to pay."
In Welch v. Sage,* the effect of the certificate attached to
the bonds issued by the Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway
Company, identical with those in this case, was considered
* 47 New York, 143.

Oct. 1874.]

HOTOHKISS V. NTATIONAL BANKs.
Opinion of the court.

by the same Court of Appeals, and the court there held
that the certificate constituted no part of the bond; that the
latter was entire and perfect without it, and that the admission of the debt and the promise to pay were in no degree
qualified by it.
The absence of the certificates, at the time the bonds were
received by the defendants, was not of itself a circumstance
sufficient to put the defendants upon inquiry as to the title
of the holder. There is no evidence in the case, as already
observed, that the privilege which the certificates conferred
was of any value; and if it had value no obligation rested
upon the holder to preserve the certificates. He was at liberty to abandon the privilege they conferred and rely solely
upon the absolute obligation of the company to pay the
amount stipulated. The absence of the certificates when
the bonds were offered to the defendants amounted to little
if anything more in legal effect than a statement by the
holder that in his judgment they added nothing to the value
of the bonds. In the case of Welch v. Sage, already cited, it
was held that the absence of the certificate from the bond
when taken by the purchaser would not of itself establish
the fact that the purchaser was guilty of fraud or bad faith,
although it would be a circumstance of some weight in connection with other evidence.
The law is well settled that a party who takes negotiable
paper before due for a valuable consideration, without
knowledge of any defect of title, in good faith, can hold it
against all the world. A suspicion that there is a'defect of
title in the holder, or a knowledge of circumstances that
might excite such suspicion in the mind of a cautious person, or even gross negligence at the time, will not defeat
the title of the purchaser. That result can be produced only
by bad faith, which implies guilty knowledge or wilful ignorance, and the burden of proof lies on the assailant of the
title. It was so expressly held by this court in Murray v.
Lardner,* where Mr. Justice Swayne examined the leading
* 2 Wallace, 110; see also Goodman v. Simonds, 20 Howard, 348.

CLARK V. ISELIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

authorities on the subject and gave the conclusion we have
stated.
In the present case it is not pretended that the defendants,
when they took the bonds in controversy, had notice of any
circumstances outside of the instruments themselves, and
the absence of the certificates referred to in them, to throw
doubt upon the title of the holder.
We see no error in the rulings of the court below, and its
judgment is, therefore,
AFFIRMED.

CLARK, ASSIGNEE, V. ISELIN.
1. When a person, borrowing money of another, pledges with that other a
large number of bills receivable as collateral security for the loan
(many of them overdue) the pledgee may properly hand them back to
the debtor pledging them, for the purpose of being collected, or to be
replaced by others. All money so collected is money collected by the
debtor in a fiduciary capacity for the pledgee. And if a portion of the
collaterals are subsequently replaced by others, the debtor's estate being
left unimpaired, and the transaction be conducted without any purpose
to delay or defraud the pledgor's creditors, or to give a preference to
any one, the fact that proceedings in bankruptcy were instituted in a
month afterwards and the pledgor was declared a bankrupt, will not
avoid the transaction.
2. The giving, by a debtor, for a consideration of equal value passing at the
time, of a warrant of attorney to confess judgment, or of that which,
under the code of New York, is the equivalent of such warrant, and
there called a " confession of judgment," is not an act of bankruptcy,
though such warrant or "confession" be not entered of record, but on
the contrary be kept as such things often or ordinarily are, in the creditor's own custody, and with their existence unknown to others. The
creditor may enter judgment of record on them when he pleases (even
upon insolvency apparent), and issue execution and sell. Such his
action is all valid and not in fraud of the Bankrupt law unless he be
assisted by the debtor.
a. A creditor, having by execution obtained a valid lien on his debtor's
stock of goods, of an amount in value greater than the amount of the
execution, may, up to the proceedings in bankruptcy, without violating any provision of the Bankrupt Act, receive from the debtor bills
receivable and accounts due him, and a small sum of cash, to the
amount of the execution; the execution being thereupon released, and
the judgment declared satisfied.

