BAILEY V. GLOVER.

[Sup. Ct-

Statement of the case.

it was wholly immaterial whether the debtor was surprised
or not at the consequences, as they had all flowed from his
own voluntary act.
Several other questions were discussed at the argument,
but inasmuch as they are not within the errors assigned in
the record it is unnecessary to give them any separate examination.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

BAILEY, ASSIGNEE, v.

GLOVER ET AL.

1.

The policy of the Bankrupt law is speedy as well as equal distribution of
the bankrupt's assets among his creditors, and the one is almost as important as the other. The delays in the inferior courts commented on.
2. Hence the clause limiting the commencement of actions by and against
the assignee to two years after the right of action accrues, applies to all
judicial contests between the assignee and any person whose interest is
adverse to his.
3. But though this clause in terms includes all suits at law or in equity, the
general principle applies here, that where the action is intended to obtain redress against a fraud concealed by the party, or which from its
nature remains secret, the bar does not commence to run until the fraud
is discovered.
4. And this doctrine is equally applicable on principle and authority to suits
at law as well as in equity.

from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Alabama.
Bailey, assignee in bankruptcy of Benjamin Glover, and
appointed as such December 1st, 1869, filed a bill on the
20th of January, 1873 (three years and seven weeks, therefore, after the date of his appointment) against Elenora
Glover, wife of the bankrupt, Hugh Weir, his father-inlaw, and Nathaniel Glover, his son, to set aside certain conveyances.
The bill alleged that Glover, the bankrupt, owed Winston
& Co. $13,580, and that judgment had been obtained against
him for that debt; that Glover was a man of fortune-posAPPEAL

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V. (GLOVER.
Statement of the case.

sessed of at least $50,000 in different kinds of property-and
owed no debt but the one just mentioned; that being thus
entirely solvent and able to pay that debt, but fraudulently
intending to avoid its payment by applying for the benefit
of and getting a discharge under the Bankrupt law, he previously to applying conveyed, without any or upon grossly
inadequate considerations, all his estate to the defendants;
and then with fraudulent intent filed a petition in voluntary
bankruptcy, setting forth that he owed the debt to Winston
& Co., that this was the only debt which he did owe, and
that he had no property or effects whatever except such as
the law exempted from execution.
The bill further alleged that on his petition as aforesaid
he was, on the 11th of April, 1870, discharged under the
Bankrupt Act; Winston & Co. proving their debt as creditors; and he, the complainant, being appointed assignee in
the bankruptcy.
The bill further alleged that the bankrupt and his wife,
son, and father-in-law-these being the already-named defendants in the case-kept secret their said fraudulent acts,
and endeavored to conceal them from the knowledge both
of the assignee and of the said Winston & Co., whereby
both were prevented from obtaining any sufficient knowledge or information thereof until within the last two years,
and that even up to the present time they had not been able
to obtain full and particular information as to the fraudulent
disposition made by the bankrupt of a large part of his
property.
It also alleged that the surviving partner of Winston &
Co., in December, 1871, filed a petition in the District Court
against the bankrupt in order to have his discharge set aside
for this fraud, but before process could be served on the
bankrupt he died.
These were the material allegations of the bill, and if true
they showed, of course, a very clear case of fraudulent conspiracy, between the bankrupt and his family connections,
to defraud the only creditor named in his petition-a scheme
*of gross fraud, in short-concealed by the defendants from

BAILEY

v. GLOVER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the creditor.

the knowledge of the assignee and from Winston & Co.,
against whom the fraud was perpetrated.
The defendants demurred to the bill, because the suit was
not brought within two years from the appointment of the
assignee, and their demurrer was sustained. This appeal
was taken from the decree of the court dismissing the bill,
and the sole question here was, whether on the case made
by the bill this decision of the Circuit Court was right.
The second section of the Bankrupt Act of 1867, under
which section the case arose, reads as follows:
"The Circuit Court shall have concurrent jurisdiction of all
suits at law or in equity, brought by the assignee, against any
person claiming an adverse interest; or by such person against
the assignee touching the property of the bankrupt transferable
to or vested in the assignee; but no suit at law or in equity
shall in any case be maintainable by or against such assignee,
or by or against any person claiming an adverse interest, touching the property or rights of property aforesaid, in any court
whatsoever, unless the same shall be brought within two years
from the time of the cause of action accrued for or against such
assignee."

Mr. P. Phillips, for the appellant:
The demurrer admits:
1st. That the defendants hold the property in fraud of the
creditors.
2d. That they so concealed the fraud that the assignee
only came to the knowledge of it within a year from filing
the bill.
The question then is, whether the second section of the
Bankrupt Act protects persons fraudulently obtaining property from the bankrupt, in the enjoyment of the fruits of
their fraud, if they are able to conceal from the assignee the
knowledge of their fraud for two years?
To answer such a proposition in the affirmative shocks
one's moral sense, and if it is to prevail we must find in the
words of the section instruction so explicit as to leave no
room for construction. No such words exist there. We

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY v. GLOVER.
Argument for the holder of the property.

submit rather that the action does not "accrue" while the
fraud is concealed.*
Independently of this, the second section does not apply
to the present proceeding. It refers to suits brought by the
assignee "against any person claiming an adverse interest."
The present fraudulent possessors of the bankrupt's property
never made known their interest. The assignee by their
concealment had no knowledge of their claim. The evident
intention of the section was to apply the limitation when an
adverse interest was asserted. In such a case it was only
reasonable that a statute of limitation should exist. To apply it to an interest concealed, and of which the assignee
could have no knowledge, would be unreasonable.
Mr. S. . Cumming, contra:
The right of the complainant to bring this suit accrued on
his appointment, and under the second section of the act he
could bring it only within two years from the time the cause
of action accrued. This bill was not filed until more than
two years after the cause of action accrued; in fact, not
until more than two years after the final discharge of the
bankrupt. The eighth section of the Bankrupt Act of 1841
is similar to the second section of the act of 1867, now under
consideration. On that section numerous decisions which
would go tosustain the demurrer have been made.t
The bill attempts to take the case out of the statute by
alleging that the fraud was not discovered until within two
years before the filing thereof. The answer to this is twofold:
FI'rst. That the complainant does not, by the allegations
of his bill, bring the case within the exception to the ordinary statute of limitations.t
* Massachusetts Turnpike v. Field, 3 Massachusetts, 201; Homer v. Fish,
1 Pickering, 435; Welles v. Fish, 3 Id. 74; Sherwood v. Sutton, 5 Mason, 143.
t Comegys v. McCord, 11 Alabama, 932; Harris v. Collins, 13 Id. 388;
Paulding v. Lee, 20 Id. 753; Clark v. Clark et al., 17 Howard, 315.
$ Kane v. Bloodgood, 7 Johnson's Chancery, .122; Bank of the United
States v. Daniel, 12 Peters, 56; Moore v. Greene etal., 19 Howard, 69; Harwood v. Railroad Co., 17 Wallace, 78.

BAILEY V. GLOVER.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

Second. That the statute is imperative, admitting of no
exceptions as to any tribunal, and consequently sets aside
the rule invoked as to bankruptcy cases under the act.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Counsel for the appellant argues that the provision of the
second section of the Bankrupt Act has no application to
the present case because it is not shown that the defendants
have set up or asserted any claim to the property now sought
to be recovered adverse to that of the assignee. It is rather
difficult to see exactly what is meant by this proposition.
The suit is brought to be relieved from some supposed
claim of right or interest in the property on the part of the
defendants. If no such claim exists, it does not stand in the
way of complainant, and le does not need the aid of a court
of equity to set it aside. If it is intended to argue that until
some one asserts in words that he claims a right to property
transferred to the assignee by virtue of the act, which is adverse to the bankrupt, the statute does not begin to run
though such person is in possession of the property, acting
as owner, and admitting no other title to it, we think the
construction of the proviso entirely too narrow.
This is a statute of limitation. It is precisely like other
statutes of limitation and applies to all judicial contests between the assignee and other persons touching 1he property
or rights of property of the bankrupt transferable to or
vested in the assignee, where the interests are adverse and
have so existed for more than two years from the time when
the cause of action accrued, for or against the assignee.
Such is almost the language in which the provision is expressed in section 5057 of the Revised Statutes.
It is obviously one of the purposes of the Bankrupt law,
that there should be a speedy disposition of the bankrupt's
assets. This is only second in importance to securing
equality of distribution. The act is filled with provisions
for quick and summary disposal of questions arising in the
progress of the case, without regard to usual modes of trial
attended by some necessary delay. Appeals in some in-

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V. GLOVER.
Opinion of the court.

stances must be taken within ten days; and provisions are
made to facilitate sales of property, compromises of doubtful
claims, and generally for the early discharge of the bankrupt and the speedy settlement of his estate. It is a wise
policy, and if those who administer the law could be induced
to act upon its spirit, would do much to make the statute
more acceptable than it is. But instead of this the inferior
courts are filled with suits by or against assignees, each of
whom as soon as appointed retains an attorney, if property
enough comes to his hands to pay one, and then instead of
speedy sales, reasonable compromises, and efforts to adjust
differences, the estate is wasted in profitless litigation, and
the fees of the officers who execute the law.
To prevent this as much as possible, Congress has said to
the assignee, you shall commence no suit two years after the
cause of action has accrued to you, nor shall you be harassed
by suits when the cause of action has accrued more than
two years against you. Within that time the estate ought
to be nearly settled up and your functions discharged, and
we close the door to all litigation not commenced before it
has elapsed.
But the appellant relies in this court upon another proposition which has been very often applied by the courts under
proper circumstances, in mitigation of the strict letter of
general statutes of limitation, namely, that when the object
of the suit is to obtain relief against a fraud, the bar of the
statute does not commence to run until the fraud is discovered or becomes known to the party injured by it.
This proposition has been incorporated in different forms
in the statutes of many of the States, and presented to the
courts under several aspects where there were no such statutes. And while there is unanimity in regard to some of
these aspects there is not in regard to others.
In suits in equity where relief is sought on the ground of
fraud, the authorities are without conflict in support of the
doctrine that where the ignorance of the fraud has been
produced by affirmative acts of the guilty party in conceal.
ing the facts from the other, the statute will not bar relief

BAILEY

v.

GLOVER.

[Sup. C+

Opinion of the court.

provided suit is brought within proper time after the discovery of the fraud.
We also think that in suits in equity the decided weight
of authority is in favor of the proposition that where the
party injured by the fraud remains in ignorance of it without any fault or want of diligence or care on his part, the
bar of the statute does not begin to run until the fraud is
discovered, though there be no special circumstances or
efforts on the part of the party committing the fraud to conceal it from the knowledge of the other party.*
On the question as it arises in actions at law there is in
this country a very decided conflict of authority. Many of
the courts hold that the rule is sustained in courts of equity
only on the ground that these courts are not bound by the
mere force of the statute as courts of common law are, but
only as they have adopted its principle as expressing their
own rule of applying the doctrine of laches in analogous
cases. They, therefore, make concealed fraud an exception
on purely equitable principles.t
On the other hand, the English courts and the courts of
Connecticut, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and others of
great respectability, hold that the doctrine is equally appli
cable to cases at law.t
As the case before us is a suit in equity, and as the bill
contains a distinct allegation that the defendants kept secret
and concealed from the parties interested the fraud which is
* Booth v. Lord Warrington, 4 Brown's Parliamentary Cases, 163; South
Sea Company v. Wymondsell, 3 Peere Williams, 143; Hovenden v. Lord
Annesley, 2 Schoales & Lefroy, 634; Stearns v. Page, 7 Howard, 819; Moore
v. Greene, 19 Id. 69; Sherwood v. Sutton, 5 Mason, 143; Snodgrass v. Bank
of Decatur, 25 Alabama, 161.
t Troup v. Smith, 20 Johnson, 33; Callis v. Waddy, 2 M1unford, 511;
Miles v. Barry, 1 Hill (South Carolina), 296; York v. Bright, 4 Humphry,
312.
$ Bree v. Holbech, Douglas, 655; Clarke v. Hougham, 3 Dowling & Ryland, 322; Granger v. George, 5 Barnewall & Cresswell, 149; Turnpike Co.
v. Field, 3 Massachusetts, 201; Welles v. Fish, 3 Pickering, 75; Jones v.
Caraway, 4 Yeates, 109; Rush v. Barr, 1 Watts, 110; Pennock v. Freeman,
lb. 401; Mitchell v. Thompson, 1 McLean, 9; Carr v. Hilton, 1 Cuiti, 230.

Oct. 1874.]

BAILEY V. GLoVER.
Opinion of the court.

sought to be redressed, we might rest this case on what we
have said is the undisputed doctrine of the courts of equity,
but for the peculiar language of the statute we are considering. We cannot say in regard to this act of limitations that
courts of equity are not bound by its terms, for its very
words are that "no suit at law or in equity shall in any case
be maintained . . . unless brought within two years," &c.

It is quite clear that this statute must be held to apply
equally by its own force to courts of equity and to courts of
law, and if there be au exception to the universality of its
language it must be one which applies under the same state
of facts to suits at law as well as to suits in equity.
But we are of opinion, as already stated, that the weight
of judicial authority, both in this country and in England,
is in favor of the application of the rule to suits at law as
well as in equity. And we are also of opinion that this is
founded in a sound and philosophical view of the principles
of the statutes of limitation. They were enacted to prevent
frauds; to prevent parties from asserting rights after the
lapse of time had destroyed or impaired the evidence which
would show that such rights never existed, or had been satisfied, transferred, or extinguished, if they ever did exist.
,,,To hold that by concealing a fraud, or by committing a
fraud in a manner that it concealed itself until such time as'
the party committing the fraud could plead the statute of
limitations to protect it, is to make the law which was designed to prevent fraud the means by which it is made successful and secure. And we see no reason why this principle
should not be as applicable to suits tried on the common-law
side of the court's calendar as to those on the equity side.
While we might follow the construction of the State
courts in this matter, where those statutes governed the
case, in construing this statute of limitation passed by the
Congress of the United States as part of the law of bankruptcy, we hold that when there has been no negligence or
laches on the part of a plaintiff in coming to the knowledge
of the fraud which is the foundation of the suit, and when
the fraud has been concealed, or is of such character as to

MITCHELL V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

conceal itself, the statute does not begin to run until the
'fraud is discovered by, or becomes known to, the party
suing, or those in privity with him.
The result of this proposition is that the decree of the
Circuit Court sustaining the demurrer and dismissing the
bill must be REVERSED, with directions for further proceedings,
IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

MITCHELL V. UNITED STATES.
A resident of a loyal State, who, after the 17th of July, 1861, and just after
the late civil war had become flagrant, went, under a military pass of a
Federal officer into the rebel States, and in November and December,
1864, bought a large quantity of cotton there (724 bales), and never re
turned to the loyal States until just after that and when the war was
not far from its close-when he did return to his old domicile-having,
during the time that he was in the rebel States transacted business, collected debts, and purchased the cotton, held, on a question whether he
had been trading with the enemy, not to have lost his original domicile,
and accordingly to have been so trading.
APPEAL from the Court of Claims. That court found the
following facts:
At the beginning of the late rebellion, Mitchell, the claimant and appellant, lived in Louisville, Kentucky. He was
engaged in business there. In July, 1861, and after the 17th
of that month, he procured from the proper military authority of the United States in Kentucky a pass permitting
him to go through the army lines into the insurrectionary
territory. He thereupon went into the insurgent States and
remained there until the latter part of the year 1864. He
then returned to Louisville. While in the Confederate
States he transacted business, collected debts, and purchased
from different parties 724 bales of cotton. He took possession of the cotton and stored it in Savannah. Upon the
capture of that place by General Sherman the cotton was

