378

[Sup. Ct.

WATSON V. TAYLOR
Statement of the case.

obtained more than they gave in return. The exchange, instead of impairing the debtors' estate, actually benefited it.
It saved the stock levied upon from the expense and sacrifice
of a forced sale. It was, therefore, such an exchange as the
debtors might lawfully make and as the creditors might
lawfully accept. This is determined by Cook v. Tullis,* and
Tiffany v. Boatman's Savings Institution.t
DECREE WHOLLY REVERSED,

and the cause remanded, with

instructions to proceed
IN

ACCORDANCE WITH THIS OPINION.

Justices HUNT, CLIFFORD, and MILLER dissented.
See next case, infra, p. 381.

NOTE.

At the same time with the preceding case was adjudged the
case of
WATSON, ASSIGNEE, V. TAYLOR,
In which the doctrines of the preceding case are affirmed and applied to the
case of a note with warrant to confess judgment, given five months

before the petition of bankruptcy was filed against the debtor; the case
showing affirmatively that no fraud was intended when the note with
warrant was given, and that the creditor had no reason to believe that
the debtor was insolvent.
ON certificate of division in opinion from the Circuit Court
for the Western District of Pennsylvania. The case was
thus:
Taylor, prior to the 4th of August, 1868, was, and atthe
time of this suit still continued to be, a wholesale drygoods
merchant, in Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.
Sweeney, prior to the same day, was, and until January
18th, 1869, continued to be, a retail merchant, residing and
* 18 WTallace, 332.

t 1b. 376.

Oct. 1874.]

WATSON V. TAYLOR.
Statement of the case.

doing business in Freeport, Pennsylvania. For some time
prior to the said 4th of August, 1868, and up to January
1st, 1869, Sweeney was a customer of Taylor in the purchasing of merchandise on credit, according to the usual course
of the business.
On the 4th of August, 1868, Sweeney was in debt to Taylor in an account then due, for merchandise previously purchased in the ordinary course of business; and on that day,
according to the custom of said Taylor, and in the ordinary
course of business, closed the account by executing and
delivering to Taylor a note, with warrant of attorney, for
$800, the balance of the account, embracing the amount of
a small bill of goods, about $18, that day sold said Sweeney,
payable four months after date, with interest. After this
Sweeney continued to purchase from Taylor merchandise as
before, all of which had now been paid for, but he paid
nothing on the note.
It was the regular custom of Taylor to close such accounts
by taking notes with warrant of attorney. ,
The note remained unpaid, and on the 1st of January,
1869, was, by an agent of Taylor, delivered to Taylor's attorneys for collection (he having demanded payment a day
or two before), and was by them entered of record and judgment confessed by virtue of the warrant of attorney, and on
the same day a writ offierifaciaswas issued thereon and delivered to the sheriff, which became a lien under the laws of
Pennsylvania upon the goods and chattels of Sweeney, and
upon the 4th day of January, 1869, an actual levy was made
in pursuance of said writ upon the personal estate of Sweeney, consisting of drygoods, groceries, &c., in his store at
Freeport, being all he had, the store being closed and sold
out on the execution (he having no real estate), and, in accordance with said law, the goods and chattels were sold by
the sheriff on the 18th day of January, 1869, and on the
18th of January, 1869, the sum of $860 paid over by the
sheriff to Taylor's attorneys, who paid it to him, Taylor.
Neither Taylor nor his counsel became the purchasers of
any property thus sold by the sheriff.

380

WATSON

v.

TAYLOR.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

It appeared from the evidence that at the time of taking
the note and confessing judgment thereon there was no
fraud or collusion intended by either Taylor or Sweeney,
and Taylor testified that he did not know or have any
reasonable cause to believe that Sweeney was bankrupt or
insolvent, or contemplated bankruptcy or insolvency, or any
fraud on the Bankrupt law.
On the 15th of January, 1869, two days after the sale, a
petition in bankruptcy was filed in the United States District Court, at Pittsburg, against Sweeney, by Hanlon and
others, his creditors, and on the same day an injunction was
awarded, which was never served personally on Taylor, or
in any manner upon his attorneys, but was served on the
sheriff on the 18th January, 1869, after the money had been
paid over. There was no evidence given to show that at
the time of receiving the money, either Taylor, his attorney,
or the sheriff had any notice of said writ of injunction or
proceedings in bankruptcy.
On the 2d of February, 1869, Sweeney was adjudged
bankrupt, in default of appearance to the rule to show cause,
and on the 30th day of March, 1869, Watson was chosen his
assignee, to whom an assignment was duly made by the
register.
Watson, the assignee, now brought assumpsit in the court
below, to recover the value of the personal property sold
under the confession of judgment; and on the trial these
questions occurred and were certified to this court:
1. Whether the confession of judgment, execution, levy,
and sale, as proved, constituted an indirect transfer of the
property with a view to give a preference, within the meaning of the thirty-fifth section of the Bankrupt Act.
2. Whether the confession of judgment, execution, levy,

and sale aforesaid, constituted a transfer or other disposition
of the property, with a view to give a preference.
3. Whether, if the facts aforesaid constituted a transfer or
other disposition within the meaning of the Bankrupt Act,
it was made at the date of the warrant of attorney, or at or
after the time of confessing the judgment.

Oct. 1874.]

WATSON V. TAYLOR.

Opinion of Hunt; Clifford, and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

4. Whether, from the debtor's default in payment of the
debt, the warrant of attorney, the confession of judgment,
execution, and levy, as aforesaid, the execution creditor had
reasonable cause to believe that the debtor was insolvent,
and that the proceedings were in fraud of the Bankrupt
Act.
5. Whether the entry of judgment in the State court and
the proceedings therein, as aforesaid, constitute a bar to the
present suit.
No counsel for Watson, the assignee; Messrs. E. S. Golden
and G. W. Guthrie, for the creditor, Taylor.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case the proceedings in bankruptcy were commenced on the 15th of January, 1869. On the 4th of August, 1868, more than five months before the petition was
filed, the bankrupt gave to the defendant his promissory
note containing a warrant to confess a judgment thereon.
By virtue of the warrant a judgment was entered on the 1st
day of January, 1869, and the execution, levy, and sale immediately followed. Were there nothing more in the case,
what we have just decided in Clark v. Iselin would determine
that no preference within the meaning of the Bankrupt Act
was given. The case, however, shows affirmatively that no
fraud or collusion was intended, either at the time when the
note was given or when the judgment was entered, and that
the creditor had no reason to believe the debtor was insolvent.
The first, second, and fourth questions are, therefore, answered in the negative, and, being thus answered, the other
questions become immaterial.
Mr. Justice HUNT (with whom concurred Justices CLIFFORD and MILLER) dissenting, in this case of Watson, Assignee, v. Taylor, as in the preceding one of Clark, Assignee,
v. Iselin:
The importance of the principle involved in the decision

WATSON V.

TAYLOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Hunt, Clifford, and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

of these cases justifies a statement of the position of those
who do not concur in the decision.
Stated in brief words the decision is this: A merchant in
solvent circumstances may give his creditor a warrant to
confess a judgment, which may be held by him, concealed
from the knowledge of every other person; the debtor may
continue his business for an indefinite time, buying other
goods of the same creditor, paying for the new purchases,
but paying nothing on the judgment debt, and when he becomes insolvent, judgment may be perfected on the warrant
of attorney so given, execution issued, and the proceeds of
the property sold paid to the judgment creditor in preference
to and in exclusion, if need be, of all other creditors.
In the case of Iselin the warrant of attorney was held by
him unacted upon for two months, and in the case of Taylor
for five months. The precise time is not important. If the
power to enter the judgment may remain unexercised for
five months, and be enforced after insolvency has occurred,
there is no limit to the time, except such as may arise from
the statute of limitations. In the case of Iselin the confession was given to secure a debt then created. In the case of
Taylor it was given to secure an antecedent debt. The decision, therefore, embraces as well the case of a debt past due
at the time of giving the confession as of a debt then created.
1st. This decision impresses me as being in violation of
the whole spirit and intent of the Bankrupt law, and as calculated to destroy its beneficial effect.
The first principle of this law is to secure an equal distribution of the property of a bankrupt among all his creditors.
Its first intent was to destroy the system of preferences
allowed in most of the States, by which in the act of bankruptcy, as it were "in articulo mortis," a debtor could give all
his property to favored creditors. It was intended to prevent this vicious system and, in the language of the act, "to
secure the rights of all parties and the due distribution of
assets among all the creditors, without any priority or preference whatever, except wages not exceeding $50." To this
end the whole machinery of the act is directed. To accom-

Oct. 1874.]

WATSON V.

TAYLOR.

Opinion of Hunt, Clifford, and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

plish this end all attachments made within four months of
the bankrupt proceedings are annulled, however vigilant the
creditor, however honest his debt; all offsets in favor of
debtors of the bankrupt purchased after bankruptcy, are
disallowed; no discharge is to be granted to the bankrupt
if within four months he has procured his property to be
attached or seized on execution, or if in contemplation of
bankruptcy he has made any conveyance, pledge, or transfer, directly or indirectly, absolutely or conditionally, for
the purpose of preferring one creditor over another. With
the same view it is further provided that payments within
six months, or, in certain cases, within four months, with a
view to giving a preference, or if he procures his property
to be attached, or makes pledges, assignments, or transfers,
where the person receiving them has reason to believe there
is insolvency, and that it is in fraud of this act, all these acts
are void, and the creditor may be compelled to refund to the
assignee the money received by him; and if the transaction
is not in the usual course of business, the fact shall be primd
facie evidence of fraud.
How can the spirit of this act be carried out if the debtor
is allowed to give a secret preference to one creditor, by
which his debt is free from the hazards of trade, and is
secure whatever may happen? The favored creditor lends
his debtor other moneys from day to day. He sells him
other goods as his occasions require. Other creditors buy,
sell, get credit, all is fair to the view, all stand upon an apparent equality. Each one supposes that he understands
that no preference can by law be given, but that by law all
will share alike in the event of a calamity. A calamity
does occur, and through a concealed instrument, not possible
to be known to others, by which the favoried creditor has
had the power to precipitate the crisis whenever his interests required it, and to delay it until that time came. The
judgment by confession for a debt long since mature is now
entered of record, execution is issued, and his debt is paid
in preference of or to the exclusion of all others. A Bankrupt Act which permits such a result cannot be said to be

WATSON V.

TAYLOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Hunt, Clifford, and Mi]ler, JJ., dissenting.

based upon the principle of an equal distribution of all the
assets among all the creditors.
If the creditor had desired to bring his debt within the
protection of the law, and to make it like a mortgage, a lien
upon the real estate of the debtor, he should have entered
it of record in the clerk's office. Until so entered, while
kept in his safe or his pocket, it is not a mortgage, or judgment, or lien, of any character. He simply has the means
or the power of giving himself a lien upon land by filing
his judgment, or upon goods by issuing execution. Of itself,
unexecuted, the confession has no force or virtue.
But, secondly, I am of the opinion that the proceeding in
question is forbidden by the terms of the thirty-fifth section
of the Bankrupt law.* It is there enacted that if any person,
being insolvent, within four months before the bankruptcy
proceedings, with a view to give a preference to any creditor,
"procures any part of his property to be seized on execution," the same shall be void and the assignee may recover
the value of the same.
Every person is deemed to contemplate the natural result
of his acts, and is responsible for all the results that legitimately follow them. A debtor who confesses a judgment
cannot be heard to say that he did not contemplate the issuing of an execution thereon. A judgment is given that
execution may follow thereon. An execution is the only
mode by which the benefit of the judgment can be obtained.
This principle is so plain that we could hardly expect to find
a decision supporting it. It so happens, however, that the
precise proposition was involved in the case of the Clarion
Bank v. Jones, assignee, recently decided by this court.t
Whoever, therefore, procures judgment to be entered
against himself, upon which execution is issued and levied,
procures his goods to be seized on execution within the provision of the statute. In the case just cited Mr. Justice
Clifford uses the following language:
"1. That every one is presumed to intend that which is
* See the section quoted, supra, 361.-REP.

t Supr a , 837.

Oct. 1874.]

WATSON v. TAYLOR.

Opinion of Hunt, Clifford, and Miller, JJ., dissenting

the necessary and unavoidable consequence of his acts, and
that the evidence introduced that the debtor signed and delivered to the defendants the judgment note payable one day
after date, giving to them the right to enter the same of
record and to issue execution thereon without delay, for a
debt which was not then due, affords a strong ground to presume that the debtor intended to give the creditor a preference, and that the creditor intended to obtain it, and that it iswholly immaterial whether the preference was voluntary orwas given at the urgent solicitation of the creditor."
On the 25th of February, 1869, Dibblee gave to Mr. Iselin.
what is termed in the State of New York a confession of
judgment for $54,000. The paper contained an acknowledgment of indebtedness to that amount. It carried an
authority to enter judgmqent for that sum in the Supreme
Court of the State of New York. Until so entered it had
no force or effect in any degree or in any form. It created
no lien on lands until so entered. It could give no lien on
goods until so entered and an execution issued in the ordinary form of law. It was not a mortgage or judgment. It
created no lien or incumbrance. It may be compared to an.
agreement to give a mortgage under certain circumstances.
Such an agreement might be made of value, but it is nothing
of itself.*
Dibblee gave a power or authority simply, by which the
creditor was authorized to give to himself a judgment and
execution. This is conceded in general terms. It is sought
to annul its effect, however, by reference to the fact that
when the confession was executed, or the authority given,,
Dibblee was solvent and might lawfully confess a judgment.
If this be conceded, it does not aid the argument. If he
had entered up the judgment on the 25th of February, by
virtue of an authority then given, it might have been valid,
but he did not exercise the authority until the 30th of April.
At that time Dibblee was insolvent, to the knowledge of
Iselim The authority given on the 25th of February was a
* Bank of Leavenworth v. Hunt, 11 Wallace, 391.
25
voL. XXI.

WATSON V. TAYLOR.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of Hunt, Clifford, and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

continuing authority. It was not in its effect an act then
and there done and ended, and of which the force was then
and there exhausted. It was not an act then and there perfected, like a mortgage or deed. The paper given was nothing
of itself, but it gave to the creditor power and authority to
create a judgment. This authority was not exhausted on
the 25th of February, when the paper was executed. It
continued every day to be a subsisting power, and every
moment of the day. On the 30th of April, 1869, it was a
power and authority then subsisting and in force. The
judgment entered in the clerk's office on that day, was entered by force of a power of attorney in the exercise of
authority given by Dibblee, and that day existing in full
force. The cases of Bennett v. Davis,* and Nichols v. Chapman,t show that if Dibblee had died at any time before the
judgment had been actually entered up, the judgment could
not have been perfected. His death would work a revocation of the authority. From this we conclude, 1, that the
paper was of itself no lien or security; 2, that it was merely
a power of attorney, which, like every other power of attorney, is revoked by the death of the grantor. While the
debtor lived, and in this case on the 30th of April, the authority to enter judgment on that day continued, and on that
day the power and authority were carried into execution.
On that day, however, the debtor was a bankrupt.
These suggestions are equally applicable in the case of
Taylor.
INo case has been cited which gives the authority of this
court to the principle held by the majority of the court in
the present case. The case of Buckinglham v. IfkcLean,t not
cited, is the only one I have been able to find giving apparent countenance to it. The language of Mr. Justice Curtis
in that case is broad enough to cover it. The case there
under consideration did not require or justify the examination of the question now before us. The question was
whether the fact of the debtor's insolvency should refer to
* 3 Cowen, 68.

t" 9 Wendell, 452.

$ 13 Howard, 150.

Oct. 1874.]*

BROWN v. ]RACKETT.
Statement of the case.

the time when the confession was given and was entered of
record, or when the execution was issued, and it was held
that the first named was the time to be inquired about. The
execution was issued on the 22d of April.

The confession

was signed on the 7th of May, and entered of record on the
next day, and the twenty-four hours had made no change in
the debtor's affairs. He was solvent on both of those days.
On the 22d of April he was insolvent. The distinction, so
important in the present case, between the condition of
affairs when the judgment was authorized and the condition
months later, when the judgment was entered of record, did
not and could not arise.
Except for the judgment of a majority of my brethren to
the contrary, I should say that it was plain, 1st, that the
judgment was entered by virtue of an authority from the
debtor when he was insolvent to the knowledge of the creditor; and, 2d, that this was a procuring by the debtor of the
seizure of his property on execution, which cannot be sustained under the Bankrupt law.
Great as is my deference to the opinions of my associates,
I am not able in this case to yield my judgment.

BROWN v. BRACKETT.
A confirmation of a claim to land in California under a grant from the former Mexican government, obtained under the act of Congress of March
3d, 1851, is limited by the extent of the claim made; and the decree of
confirmation cannot be used to maintain the title to other land embraced within the boundaries of the grant.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of California,
the action being ejectment for lands in that State, on which
judgment was rendered for the defendant in a District Court
of the State and affirmed by the Supreme Court.

Mr. C. . Botts, for the plaintiffin error; Mr. T f. Coghlan,
for the defendant in error.

