Oct. 1874.]

TRIST V. CHILD.
Statement of the case.

TRIST V. CHILD.
1. A mere personal agreement by one setting up a claim on the government,
with another person to pay to such person a percentage of whatever sum
Congress, through the instrumentality of such person, may appropriate
in payment of the claim, does not constitute any lien on the fund td be
appropriated; there being no order on the government to pay the percentage out of the fund so appropriated, nor any assignment to the party
of such percentage.
2. If such agreement amounted to such an order or assignment as in the
case of a debt due by an ordinary person would constitute a lien on the
fund, the agreement, in the case of a claim on the government, would,
under the act of February 26th, 1853, not do so; for that act declares
that all transfers of any part of any claim against the United States,
" or of any interest therein, whether absolute or conditional, shall be
absolutely null and void, unless executed in the presence of at least two
attesting witnesses after the allowance of such claim, the ascertainment
of the amount due, and the issuing of a warrant therefor."
S. A contract to take charge of a claim before Congress, and prosecute it as
an agent and attorney for the claimant (the same amounting to a contract to procure by "lobby services "-that is to say, by personal solicitation by the agent, and others supposed to have personal influence in
any way with members of Congress-the passage of a bill providing for
the payment of the claim), is void.
4. Such a contract is distinguishable from one for purely professional services, within which category are included, drafting a petition which
sets forth the claim, attending to the taking of testimony, collecting
facts, preparing arguments, and submitting them either orally or in
writing to a committee or other proper authority, with other services
of like.character intended to reach only the understanding of the persons sought to be influenced.
5. Though compensation can be recovered for these when they stand by
themselves, yet when they are bklnded and confused with those which
are forbidden, the whole is a unit and indivisible, and that which is bad
destroys the good. Compensation can be recovered for no part.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia; the case being thus:
N. P. Trist having a claim against the United States for
his services, rendered in 1848, touching the treaty of Guadelupe Hidalgo-a claim which the government had not recognized-resolved, in 1866-7 to submit it to Congress and
to ask payment of it. And he made an agreement with

TRIST V. CHILD.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

Linus Child, of Boston, that Child should take charge of
the claim and prosecute it before Congress as his agent and
attorney. As a compensation for his services it was agreed
that Child should receive 25 per cent. of whatever sum Congress might allow in payment of the claim. If nothing was
allowed, Child was to receive nothing. His compensation
depended wholly upon the contingency of success. Child
prepared a petition and presented the claim to Congress.
Before final action was taken upon it by that body Child
died. His son and personal representative, L. M. Child,
who was his partner when the agreement between him and
Trist was entered into, and down to the time of his death,
continued the prosecution of the claim. By an act of the
20th of April, 1871, Congress appropriated the sum of
$14,559 to pay it. The son thereupon applied to Trist for
payment of the 25 per cent. stipulated for in the agreement
between Trist and his father. Trist declined to pay. Hereupon Child applied to the Treasury Department to suspend
the payment of the money to Trist. Payment was suspended accordingly, and the money was still in the treasury.
Child, the son, now filed his bill against Trist, praying
that Trist might be enjoined from withdrawing the $14,559
from the treasury until he had complied with his agreement
about the compensation, and that a decree might pass commanding him to pay to the complainant $5000, and for general relief.
The defendant answered the bill, asserting, with other defences going to the merits, that all the services as set forth
in their bill were "of such a nature as to give no cause of
action in any court either of common law or equity."
The case was heard upon the pleadings and much evidence. A part of the evidence consisted of correspondence
between the parties. It tended to prove that the Childs,
father and son, had been to see various members of Congress, soliciting their influence in behalf of a bill introduced
for the benefit of Mr. Trist, and in several instances obtaining a promise of it. There was no attempt to prove that
any kind of bribe had been offered or ever contemplated;

Oct. 1874 ]

TRIST V. CHILD.
Argument for the appellants.

but the following letter, one in the correspondence put in
evidence, was referred to as showing the effects of contracts
such as the one in this case:
FROm CHILD, JR., TO TRIST.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,

WASHINGTON, D. C., Feb. 20th, 1871.

MR. TRIST: Everything looks very favorable. I found that
and B-, and other members
my father has spoken to Csays he will try hard to get it before
of the House. Mr. Bmore chances, or rather "morning
two
He
has
the House.
will go in for it.
hours," before Congress adjourns. A
promises to go for it. I have sent your letter and report
D, of Pennsylvania. It may not be reached till
to Mr. Wnext week. Please write to your friends to write immediately
to any member of Congress. Every vote tells; and a simple
request to a member may secure his vote, he not caring anything about it. Set every man you know at work, even if he
knows a page, for a page often gets a vote. The most I fear is
indifference.
Yours, &c.,
L. M. CHILD.
The court below decreed,
1st. That Trist should pay to the complainant $3639, with
interest from April 20th, 1871.
2d. That until he did so, he should be enjoined from receiving at the treasury "any of the moneys appropriated to
him" by the above act of Congress, of April 20th, 1871.
From this decree the case was brought here.
The good character of the Messrs. Child, father and son,
was not denied.

Messrs. Durant and Homer, for the appellants, upon the
main point of the case (the validity of the contract between
Child and Trist), relied upon Marshall v. Baltimore -Rail
road,* in this court, and upon the principles- there enunciated in behalf of the court by Grier, J.
* 16 Howard, 314.
lace, 54.

They relied also on Tool Company v.

Norris,

2 Wal.

TRIsT V. CHILD.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellees.

Messrs. B. . Butler and -. D. Mussey, contra:
The case relied on by opposing counsel is widely different
from this one.
There, Marshall entered-as the report of the case showsinto a contract with the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, to obtain certain favorable legislation in Virginia for
the contingent compensation of fifty thousand dollars by the
use of personal, secret, and sinister influences upon the legislators. He expressly stated that his plan required "absolute secrecy," and " that he could allege 'an ostensible
reason' for his presence in Richmond and his active interference without disclosing his real character and object."
He spoke of using "outdoor influence" to affect the legislators through their "kind and social dispositions," and pictured them as "careless and good-natured," "engaged in
idle pleasures," capable of being "moulded like wax" by
the most "pressing influences." The company authorized
him to use these means. The question in that case, therefore, was, whether a contract for contingent compensation
for obtaining legislation by the use of secret, sinister and
personal influences upon legislators was or was not contrary
to the policy of the law. And the decision of that question
was the decision of the case.
In Marshall's case, the plaintiff and defendant combined
together to perpetrate a fraud upon the servants of the public
engaged in legislating for the public good, and it was this
fact which made the contract infamous and disgraceful and
incapable of enforcement in the courts; not that the action
sought was that of a legislature.
The case at bar differs from that of Marshall, toto coelo.
Here both father and son were openly and avowedly attorneys for their client, Trist. They never presented themselves to anybody in any different or other respect. Every
act of theirs was open, fair, and honorable.
Will it be denied that any man having a claim on the
government, may appear in person before a committee of
Congress, if they allow him, or speak to members of Congress, if they incline to hear him; point out to them the jus-

Oct. 1874.]

TRIST V. CHILD.

Argument for the appellees.

tice of -his claim, and put before them any and all honorable
considerations which may make them see that the case ought
to be decided in his favor? This, we assume, will not be
denied. But suppose that he is an old man, or a man infirm
and sick; one, withal, living away from the seat of government; a case, it may be stated, in passing, the exact case of
Mr. Trist; for be was old, infirm, sick, and lived at Alexandria. Now, if Mr. Trist being well bad the right to call
upon committees or members of Congress, and (if they invited him or were willing to listen to him) to show to them
that he negotiated, as he asserted that he did, the treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo, and should be paid for doing so, what
principle of either morals or policy, public or private, was
there to prevent him (being thus old, infirm, sick, and away
from Washington) from employing an honorable member
of the Massachusetts bar to do the same thing for him?
What principle to prevent him from doing by attorney that
which he had himself the right, but from the visitation of
God, had not himself, and at that time, the physical ability
to do?
We are not here asking the court to open the door to corrupt influences upon Congress, or to give aid to that which
is popularly known as "lobbying," and is properly denounced as dishonorable. But we are asking that by giving
the sanction of the law to an open and honorable advocacy
by counsel of private rights before legislative bodies, the
court shall aid in doing away with the employment of agencies which work secretly and dishonorably.
The records of Congress show that with honorable motives and dishonorable stimulants both combined and acting upon the two classes of persons-upright and avowed,
the Childs; or dishonest and secret, the Marshalls-who
urge claims upon Congress, out of fifteen thousand private
claims put before it since the government was organized,
not more than one-half have been acted upon in any way.
Are all private claims-claims in which the public has no
interest-to be left absolutely to the action of Congress
itself, moving only sud sponte P If so, they will never be

TRIST V. CHILD.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

acted upon. They can come before the body only through
the action of private parties.
There will, therefore, always be solicitation before legislatures so long as legislatures have the power and exercise
it of passing private laws. For the gift, or the art, of statement and persuasion is not the common property of mankind.
And if solicitation of some sort there must be, shall it
come from the mouths of such men as Linus Child and his
son-lawyers both, of unquestioned integrity--and be an
open and upright solicitation of the intellect and the reason
of the legislator; or shall it be made, by outlawry, a secret,
sinister and personal solicitation of his passions, his prejudices, and his vices?
If you shall decide that the pledged word of his client as
to compensation avails the Congressional practitioner nothing; that a man who in his poverty makes a contract may
repudiate it when the fruit of the contract is attained; then
will you remit all work before such bodies to men devoid of
honor, irresponsible both in character and property; preying alike upon the misfortunes of claimants and the weaknesses of legislators.
[A good deal was said in the argument on both sides
about contingent fees, but in view of the grounds on which
the court based its judgment, a report of that part of the
argument would be of no pertinence.]
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The court below decreed to the appellee the amount of
his claim, and enjoined Trist from receivingfrom the treasury
"any of the money appropriated to him" by Congress, until
he should have paid the demand of the appellee.
This decree, as regards that portion of the fund not claimed
by the appellee, is an anomaly. Why the claim should affect
that part of the fund to which it had no relation, is not easy
to be imagined. This feature of the decree was doubtless
the result of oversight and inadvertence. The bill proceeds

Oct. 1874.]

TRIST V.

CHILD.

Opinion of the court.

upon the grounds of the validity of the original contract,
and a consequent lien in favor of the complainant upon the
fund appropriated. We shall examine the latter ground first.
Was there, in any view of the case, a lien?
It is well settled that an order to pay a debt out of a particular fund belonging to the d'ebtor gives to the creditor a
specific equitable lien upon the fund, and binds it in the
hands of the drawee.* A part of the particular fund may
be assigned by an order, and the payee may enforce payment of the amount against the drawee.t But a mere agreement to pay out of such fund is not sufficient. Something
more is necessary. There must be an appropriation of the
fund pro tanto, either by giving an order or by transferring
it otherwise in such a manner that the holder is authorized
to pay the amount directly to the creditor without the further
intervention of the debtor.T
Viewing the subject in the light of these authorities, we
are brought to the conclusion that the appellee had no lien
upon the fund here in question. The understanding between the elder Child and Trist was a personal agreement.
It could in nowise produce the effect insisted upon. For a
breach of the agreement, the remedy was at law, not in
equity, and the defendant had a constitutional right to a trial
by jury.§ If there was no lien, there was no jurisdiction in
equity.
There is another consideration fatally adverse to the claim
of a lien. The first section of the act of Congress of February 26th, 1853, declares that all transfers of any part of
any claim against the United States, "or of any interest
therein, whether absolute or conditional, shall be absolutely
null and void, unless executed in the presence of at least
two attesting witnesses after the allowance of such claim,
* Yeates v. Groves, 1 Vesey, Jr. 280; Lett v. Morris, 4 Sfmons, 607;

Bradley v. Root, 5 Paige, 632; 2 Story's Equity, 1047.
t Field v. The Mayor, 2 Selden, 179.
1 Wright v. Ellison, 1 Wallace, 16; Hoyt v. Story, 3 Barbour's Supreme
Court, 264; Malcolm v. Scott, 3 Hare, 39; Rogers v. Hosack, 18 Wendell, 319
Wright v. Ellison, 1 Wallace, 16.

448

TRIST V. CHILD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the ascertainment of the amount due, and the issuing of a
warrant therefor." That the claim set up in the bill to a
specific part of the money appropriated is within this statute
is too clear to admit of doubt. It wofld be a waste of time
to discuss the subject.
But there is an objection of still greater gravity to the
appellee's case.
Was the contract a valid one? It was, on the part of
Child, to procure by lobby service, if possible, the passage
of a bill providing for the payment of the claim. The aid
asked by the younger Child of Trist, which indicated what
he considered needful, and doubtless proposed to do and did
do himself, is thus vividly pictured in his letter to Trist of
the 20th February, 1871. After giving the names of several
members of Congress, from whom he had received favorable assurances, he proceeds: "Please write to your friends
to write to any member of Congress. Every vote tells, and
a simple request may secure a vote, he not caring anything
about it. Set every man you know at work. Even if he
knows a page, for a page often gets a vote."
In the Roman law it was declared that "a promise made
to effect a base purpose, as to commit homicide or sacrilege,
is not binding."* In our jurisprudence a contract may be
illegal and void because it is contrary to a constitution or
statute, or inconsistent with sound policy and good morals.
Lord Mansfield said :t "Many contracts which are not against
morality, are still void as being against the maxims of sound
policy."
It is a rule of the common law of universal application,
that where a contract express or implied is tainted with
either of the vices last named, as to the consideration or the
thing to be done, no alleged right founded upon it can be
enforced in a court of justice.
Before considering the contract here in question, it may
be well, by way of illustration, to advert to some of the
* Institutes of Justinian, lib. 3, tit. 19, par. 24.

f Jones v. Randall, 1 Cowper, 39.

Oc.1874.]

TRIST V. CHILD.
Opinion of the court.

cases presenting'the subject in other phases, in which the
principle has been adversely applied.
Within the condemned category are:
An agreement-to pay for supporting for election a candidate for sheriff;* to pay for resigning a public position to
make room for another;t to pay for not bidding at a sheriff's
sale of real property ;t to pay for not bidding for articles to
be sold by the government at auction ;§ to pay for not bidding for a contract to carry the mail on a specified route;I
to pay a person for his aid and influence in procuring an
office, and for not being a candidate himself; to pay for
procuring a contract from the government;** to pay for procuring signatures to a petition to the governor for a pardon ;tt
to sell land to a particular person when the surrogate's order
to sell should have been obtained; 11 to pay for suppressing
evidence and compounding a felony;§§ to convey and assign
a part of what should come from an ancestor by descent,
devise, or distribution ;flh to pay for promoting a marriage;J
to influence the disposition of property by will in a particular way.***
The question now before us has been decided in four
American cases. They were all ably considered, and in all
of them the contract was held to be against public, policy,
* Swayze v. Hull, 3 Halsted, 54.

f- Eddy v. Capron, 4 Rhode Island, 895; Parsons v. Thompson, 1 H. Blackstone, 322.
Jones v. Caswell, 3 Johnson's Cases, 29.
Doolin v. Ward, 6 Johnson, 194. II Gulick . Bailey, 5 Halstead, 87
Gray v. Hook, 4 Comstock, 449.
Tool Company v. Norris, 2 Wallace, 45.
ft Hatzfield . Gulden, 7 Watts, 152.
fl Overseers of Bridgewater v. Overseers of Brookfield-, 3 Cowen, 299.
Collins v. Blantern, 2 Wilson, 847.
IHj Boynton v. Hubbard, 7 Massachusetts, 112.
Scribblehill v. Brett, 4 Brown's Parliamentary Cases, 144; Arundel v.
Trevillian, 1 Chancery Reports, 47.
*** Debenham v. Ox, 1 Vesey, 276; see also Addison on Contracts, 91;
1 Story's Equity, ch. 7; Collins v. Blantern, 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 676,
American note.
VOL.

x.

29

TRIST V.

C HILD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and void.* We entertain no doubt that in such cases, as
under all other circumstances, an agreement express or implied for purely professional services is valid. Within this
category are included, drafting the petition to set forth the
claim, attending to the taking of testimony, collecting facts,
preparing arguments, and submitting them orally or in
writing, to a committee or other proper authority, and other
services of like character. All these things are intended to
reach only the reason of those sought to be influenced.
They rest on the same principle of ethics as professional
services rendered in a court of justice, and are no more exceptionable. But such services are separated by a broad
line of demarcation from personal solicitation, and the other
means and appliances which the correspondence shows were
resorted to in this case. There is no reason to believe that
they involved anything corrupt or diferent from what is
usually practiced by all paid lobbyists in the prosecution of
theip~business.
The foundation of a republic is the virtue of its citizens.
They are at once sovereigns and subjects. As the foundation is undermined, the structure is weakened. When it is
destroyed, the fabric must fall. Such is the voice of universal history.t The theory of our government is, that all
public stations are trusts, and that those clothed with them
are to be animated in the discharge of their duties solely by
considerations of right, justice, and the public good. They
are never to descend to a lower plane. But there is a correlative duty resting upon the citizen. In his intercourse
with those in authority, whether executive or legislative,
touching the performance of their functions, he is bound to
exhibit truth, frankness, and integrity. Any departure from
the line of rectitude in such cases, is not only bad in morals,
but involves a public wrong. No people can have any higher
public interest, except the preservation of their liberties,
* Clippinger v. Hepbaugh, 5 Watts & Sergeant, 316; Harris v. Roof's Executor, 10 Barbour's Supreme Court, 489; Rose & Hawley v. Truax, 21 Id.
861; Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, 16 Howard, 314.
j- 1 Montesquieu, Spirit of Laws, 17.

Oct. 1874.]

TRIST V.

CHILD.

Opinion of the court.

than integrity in the administration of their government in
all its departments."
The agreement in the present case was for the sale of the
influence and exertions of the lobby agent to bring about
the passage of a law for the payment of a private claim,
without reference to its merits, by means which, if not cor.rupt, were illegitimate, and considered in connection with
the pecuniary interest of the agent at stake, contrary to the
plainest principles of public policy. No one has a right, in
such circumstances, to put himself in a position of temptation to do what is regarded as so pernicious in its character.
The law forbids the inchoate step, and puts the seal of its
reprobation upon the undertaking.
If any of the great corporations of the country were to
hire adventurers who make market of themselves in this
way, to procure the passage of a general law with a view to
the promotion of their private interests, the moral sense of
every right-minded man would instinctively denounce the
employer and employed as steeped in corruption, and the
employment as infamous.
If the instances were numerous, open, and tolerated, they
would be regarded as measuring the decay of the public
morals and the degeneracy of the times. No prophetic
spirit would be needed to foretell the consequences near at
hand. The same thing in lesser legislation, if not so prolific
of alarming evils, is not less vicious in itself, nor less to be
condemned. The vital principle of both is the same. The
evils of the latter are of sufficient magnitude to invite the
most serious consideration. The prohibition of the law
rests upon a solid foundation. A private bill is apt to attract little attention. It involves no great public interest,
and usually fails to excite much discussion. Not unfrequently the facts are whispered to those whose duty it is to
investigate, vouched for by them, and the passage of the
measure is thus secured. If the agent is truthful, and conceals nothing, all is well. If he uses nefarious means with
success,.the spring-head and the stream of legislation are
polluted. To legalize the traffic of such service, would open-

TIRIST V. CHILD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

a door at which fraud and falsehood would not fail to enter
and make themselves felt at every accessible point. It would
invite their presence and offer them a premium. If the
tempted agent be corrupt himself, and disposed to corrupt
others, the transition requires but a single step. He has the
means in his hands, with every facility and a strong incentive
to use them. The widespread suspicion which prevails, and
charges openly made and hardly denied, lead to the conclusion that such events are not of rare occurrence. Where
the avarice of the agent is inflamed by the hope of a reward
contingent upon success, and to be graduated by a percentage upon the amount appropriated, the danger of tampering
in its worst form is greatly increased.
It is by reason of these things that the law is as it is
upon the subject. It will not allow either party to be led
into temptation where the thing to be guarded against is so
deleterious to private morals and so injurious to the public
welfare. Iii expressing these views, we follow the lead of
reason and authority.
We are aware of no case in English or American jurisprudence like the one here under consideration, where the
agreement has not been adjudged to be illegal and void.
We have said that for professional services in this connection a just compensation may be recovered. But where
they are blended and confused with those which are forbidden, the whole is a unit and indivisible. That which is bad
destroys that which is good, and they perish together. Services of the latter character, gratuitously rendered, are not
unlawful. The absence of motive to wrong is the foundation of the sanction. The tendency to mischief, if not wanting, is greatly lessened. The taint lies in the stipulation for
pay. Where that exists, it affects fatally, in all its parts, the
entire body of the contract. In all such cases, protior conditio defendentis. Where there is turpitude, the law will help
neither party.
The elder agent in this case is represented to have been a
lawyer of ability and high character. The appellee is said
to be equally worthy. This can make no difference as to

Oct. 1874.]

HILL V. MENDENHALL.
Statement of the case.

the legal principles we have considered, nor in their application to the case in hand. The law is no respecter of persons.
DECREE REVERSED,

and the case remanded, with direc-

tions to
DISMISS THE BILL.

21w*453
I-ed 616
57f 971]

HILL V. MENDENHALL.
1. Where suit is brought on a record which shows that service was not made
on the defendant, but which shows also that an appearance was entered
for him by an attorney of the court, it is not allowable, under a plea
of nul tiel record only, to prove that the attorney had no authority to
appear.
2. Presumptively, an attorney of a court of record, who appears for a party,
has authority to appear for him; and though the party for whom he has
appeared, when sued on a record in which judgment has been entered
against him on such attorney's appearance, may prove that the attorney
had no authority to appear, yet he can do this only on a special plea, or
on such plea as under systems which do not follow the common-law
system of pleading, is the equivalent of such plea.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
North Carolina.
Hill sued Mendenhall in the court below upon a judgment in one of the courts of record in the State of Minnesota. The plea was nul iel record alone. Upon the trial of
the issue made by this plea, the plaintiff introduced in evidence an exemplification of the record sued upon. This
record showed upon its face that the defendant was, at the
time that action was commenced, a resident of the State of
North Carolina; that the summons issued had been returned
not served; that thereupon, by order of the court, service
was made by publication, and that after such publication the
defendant appeared by attorney, filed an answer verified by
an agent, and voluntarily submitted himself to the jurisdiction of the court.
The bill of exceptions showed that, after introducing the

