Oct. 1874.]

IDOANE

v.

GLENN.

Statement of the case.

complainant upon the mortgage debt after the security is
exhausted. If the company were not in bankruptcy the
pendency of this suit would not prevent an action at law to
recover the debt from other property pending the appeal.
For these reasons a judge, in the exercise of a reasonable
discretion, might properly accept security less than would
be sufficient to insure the payment of accumulating interest,
even upon an appeal by the corporation itself.
But it is apparent that the corporation is only a nominal
party to this appeal. The real parties in interest are the
assignees. The complainant is a creditor of the estate.
Upon proof of his claim be will be entitled to receive his
dividend with the other creditors. The accumulated interest will participate in this dividend as well as the principal
of his debt. Ile has, therefore, without any further security, all the indemnity which the assignees can give him
without they or their sureties assume personal responsibility.
All these facts were proper for the consideration of the
judge when he determined upon the amount of security
necessary to indemnify the appellee against loss by the appeal. We think, therefore, upon the case made, the action
of the justice approving the bond is conclusive.
MOTION DENIED

DOANE v. GLENN.
Where objections to the reading of a deposition made while a trial is In
progress do not go to the testimony of the witness, but relate to defects
which might have been obviated by retaking the deposition, the objections will not be sustained; no notice having been given beforehand toopposing counsel that they would be made.
Such objections, if meant to be insisted on at the trial, should bemade and
noted when the deposition is a taking or be presented afterwards by a
motion to suppress it. Otherwise they will be considered as waived.

to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Colorado.
John W. Doane, Patrick Towle, and John Roper (partners
ERROR

VOL.

Xxr.

8

DOANE V. GLENNq.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

as J. W. Doane & Co.), the plaintiffs in error in this case,
commenced a suit in the first judicial district of the Territory for the county of Arrapahoe, against Oliver S. Glenn
and Rufus E. Tapley. A writ of attachment was issued in
their behalf, and certain personal property, described in the
sheriff's return, was seized. Lockhart T. Glenn and George
0. Tapley filed an "in1terplea," and claimed the property as
belonging to them. The plaintiffs replied, denying the
truth of the allegations of the interplea, and concluding to
the country.
This proceeding is understood to have been according to
the laws of the Territory. The issue made between the interpleaders and the plaintiffs was tried by a jury. Upon
that trial the plaintiffs offered in evidence the deposition of
James W. Hanna, a resident of the city of Chicago. Itwas
taken under a dedimus issued pursuant to a notice served
upon the counsel for the interpleaders. A copy of the interrogatories to be propounded to the witness was served with
the notice. It appeared that the clerk opened, published,
and filed the deposition by -order of the court. The bill of
exceptions contained the following passages:
"The plaintiffs then offered to read in evidence the deposition
of James W. Hanna, taken May 29th, A.D. 1871, before William
L.English, Esq., Cook County, Illinois; to the reading of which
said deposition the said interpleading claimants, by their attorneys, objected on the grounds"1st. Because the parties in suit, John W. Doane, Patrick 1.
Towle, and John Roper, partners, as J. W. Doane & Co., commission specifies suit of Doane, Towle, Roper, and Raymond are
parties, and dated May 8th, A.D. 1871, out of Weld County.
"2d. Because deposition is in this cause and not in the interpleader, and does not permit interrogatories to be propounded
in behalf -of the claimants.
"3d. Because there is no authentication of the official character of a notary public.
"4th. The commission is to take the deposition of James H.
Hanna, and deposition taken is that of J. W. Hanna.
" Which said objection to the reading of said deposition to
the jury was sustained by the court, and the said court refused

Oct. 1874.]

DOANE V.

GLENN.

Opinion of the court.

to permit said deposition so to be read; to which ruling of
the court in excluding said deposition from the jury the said
plaintiffs, by their attorneys, then and there excepted; and
which said deposition is in the words and figures following, to
wit," &c.

Verdict and judgment haviing been given for the defendant, and the Supreme Court of Colorado having affirmed the
judgment, the plaintiffs brought the case here.
Messrs. Chipman and Hosmer, for the plaintiffs in error; no
opposing counsel.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
None of the objections to the reading of the deposition go
to the testimony of the witness. All of them relate to defects and irregularities which might have been obviated by
retaking the deposition. It does not appear that any notice
beforehand was given to the counsel of the plaintiffs that
they would be made. In such cases the objection must be
noted when the deposition is taken, or be presented by a
motion to suppress before the trial is begun. The party
taking the deposition is entitled to have the question of its
admissibility settled in advance. Good faith and due diligence are required on both sides. When such objections,
under the circumstances of this case, are withheld until the
trial is in progress, they must be regarded as waived, and
the deposition should be admitted in evidence. This is demanded by the interests of justice. It is necessary to prevent surprise and the sacrifice of substantial rights. It subjects the other party to no hardship. All that is exacted of
him is proper frankness.
The settled rule of this court is in accordance with these
views.*
The District Court erred in excluding the deposition, and
* The York Co. v.Central Railroad, 3 Wallace, 118; Shutte v. Thompson,
15 Id. 160; Buddicum v. Kirk, 8 Cranch, 298.

