DOUGLASS

[Sup. Ct.

V. DOUGLASS.

Statement of the case.

NOTE.

At the same time with the preceding case was adjudged the
case of .McClellandv. United States; an appeal from the Court

of Claims; in which the claimant sought to recover payments
of four cents per pound on cotton, made, as was admitted, under
and in pursuance of the license of the President, and the rules
and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury,
whose validity was considered in the case just above reported.
There was a demurrer to the petition which the Court of Claims
sustained, and, as this court, after afull argument by Hes.srs. J. W.
Denver and 0. F. Peck, for the appellant, now adjudged, rightly;
declaring that this case was substantially decided by the preceding one. The judgment of the Court of Claims was accordingly
AFFIRMED.

DOUGLASS V. DOUGLASS, ADMINISTRATOR.
1 Under the statute of Maryland, passed in 1785 (chapter 80, 14), where,
in a replevin suit, the party from whom the goods were taken is reinstated in his possession by executing a bond, and a bond is given for
the restoration of the specified goods, and these goods are delivered to
the sheriff on the writ de retorno habendo, issued on a judgment recovered; this is a satisfaction of the obligation, though the goods were
not in like good order as when the bond was executed.
2. If the obligor has injured them, or culpably suffered them to become injured while they were in his possession, a recovery cannot be had against
him on the bond, if the marshal have once taken possession. The marshal's possession is that of the obligee in the bond. Any redress for such
injury must be had by a separate proceeding.
ERROR to the Supreme Court for the District of Columbia;
the case being thus:
By an act of the Assembly of Maryland, in force in the
District of Columbia,* provision is made that, upon motion
of the defendant in replevin in certain specified cases, the
court may order a return of the goods taken in such replevin, to the defendant. In such cases when a return is
* Act of 1785, ch. 80,

14.

