LITTLE V. ALEXANDER.

[Sup. Ct.

General statement of the case.

from the ordinary taxation for State and county purposes.
It was said that to hold otherwise would be to subject the
same property to double taxation, which it cannot be supposed was intended. The remarks of Mr. Justice Woodward, in Erie Railway v. Commonwealth,* give a full explanation of the meaning of the language employed in that case.
In Easlon Bank v. The Gommonwealth,t it was held that the
designation in the charter of the bank of the payment of
taxes on its dividends at a fixed rate was a mere designation
of a tax then to be paid, and did not affect the power to impose other or greater taxes. The decisions of the State
courts of Pennsylvania are quite in harmony with our own
on this subject.
None of the objections are well taken, and the judgment
must be
AFFIRMED.

LITTLE, ASSIGNEE, V. ALEXANDER.
1. When the issue to be decided is whether a judgment against an insolvent was obtained with a view to give a preference, the intendion of the
bankrupt is the turning-point of the case, and all the circumstances
which go to show such intent should be considered.
2. Hence, when an ordinance of a State gave a preference as to time of trial
in the courts in suits on debts contracted after a certain date, and the
insolvent debtor gave his son and niece new notes for an old debt, so as
to enable them to procure judgments before his other creditors, the fact
that the ordinance was void does not repel the inference of intent to
give and obtain a preference, and when a judgment was so outained
which gave priority of lien it will to that extent be null and void.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Western District
of North Carolina.
Little, as assignee in bankruptcy of J. R. Alexander, the
father, filed a bill against T. L. Alexander, the son, to have
* 66 Pennsylvania State, 84.
t 10 Id. 451, cited and approved in 18 Wal'ace, 227.

Oct. 1874.]

LITTLE V. ALEXANDER.

Statement of the case and opinion.

certain real estate of the bankrupt, the father, and which
had come as part of his assets to the complainant as assignee, relieved from the apparent incumbrance of a judgment which the son had got against it; the father having
made no opposition to the obtaining of the judgment.
The court below dismissed the bill, and the assignee in
bankruptcy took this appeal.
The judgment was docketed on the 19th day of May,
1869, and on the 1st day of September, within less than four
months thereafter, the petition was filed on which the defendant was declared bankrupt.
Mr. S. F. Phillips, for the appellant; Mr. -.
contra.

W. Guion,

Mr. Justice MILLER stated the case, and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The question in the case on which the decision of it must
turn is, whether the bankrupt intentionally aided in the procurement of this judgment, in order to give his son a preference over his other creditors. We are of opinion that
he did.
It is quite apparent that from the close of the late civil
war Alexander, the father, was insolvent, and that this was
well known to the son, to whom he was indebted between
two and three thousand dollars. He also owed other debts,
and his property consisted of two or three parcels of land,
and perhaps a thousand dollars' worth of personal property.
By an ordinance of the State Convention of North Carolina of March 14th, 1868, which it is not necessary to give
in detail, it was provided in effect that as to debts which
were contracted prior to May 1st, 1865, judgments could not
be rendered before the spring terms of the courts in .1869,
and if there was opposition or defence they should be continued until the spring terms of 1870. Other obstructions
were also interposed to the collection of the class of debts
called old debts by this ordilaance. This provision also
applied to notes or obligations given after May 1st, 1865,

LITTLE v. ALEXANDER.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the ease and opinion.

which were wholly in renewal of such old debts. But in
suits on debts created after that time, or on notes where a
part of the consideration was new, judgments could be obtained at the first term after suit was brought. This was
the condition of the law as found in the statute-books of the
State when, on the 1st day of January, 1869, the bankrupt
gave his son, the appellee in this case, a note for the old debt
and interest, and for twenty dollars, then first loaned to him.
Nothinig can be plainer, we think, considering the relationship of the parties, and the known insolvency of the father,
than that the purpose of this transaction was to enable the
son to get a judgment at the approaching spring term of the
court on this note, as a new debt within the meaning of the
ordinance, while his other creditors were left to the mercy
which that ordinance held out to holders of old debts. If
anything else were wanted to make clear this purpose, it is
found in the fact that twenty dollars were included in the
renewal note for money received at that time, to take it out
of the class of renewals for debts wholly created before the
1st of May, 1865.
It adds strong confirmation of this view that a similar renewal was made in favor of Miss Hattie Alexander, a niece
of the bankrupt, and in favor of the firm of which the son
had been and was then a partner, and in favor of no others.
In execution of this purpose suits were brought on these
three notes, and judgments obtained on all of them for want
of appearance at the May Term, 1869, of the State court,
while suits brought on other debts were continued until another term.
To break the force of this evidence it is argned that the
ordinance which gave this preference of new debts over old
was unconstitutional and void. And in point of fact the
Supreme Court of North Carolina so decided in January,
1869.
But this decision was made after the new notes were
given, and it appears by the evidence that it was very well
known at the time the new notes were given that the local
judge would enforce the provisions of the ordinance. It is

Oct. 1874.]

CASE OF BRODERICK'S WILL.
Syllabus.

the intent with which the new notes were given which must
determine the validity of the lien of the judgment, and the
unconstitutionality of the ordinance, if the parties believed
it would be enforced, can have no influence in repelling the
presumption of the intention to give and secure priority of
judgment, and by that means a preference.
It is said that this case comes within the principle decided
by this court in Wilson v. City Bank,* because in this case,
as in that, the judgment creditor had no defence and made
none. But no careful reader of that case can fail to see that
if the debtor there had done anything before suit which
would have secured the bank a judgment with priority of
lien, with intent to do so, that the judgment of this court
would have been different from what it was.
The Circuit Court in this case submitted the question of
fraudulent preference to a jury, but with the opinions of
that court in the case, as found in the record, the jury was
probably misled as to the law. At all events, in such issues
from chancery submitted to the jury their verdict is not
conclusive, and we think the intent to secure a preference
in this case by means of this judgment, both on the part of
the bankrupt and the judgment creditor, so clear, that we
feel bound to reverse the decree and to remand the case
with instructions to enter a decree in favor of plaintiff, that
the judgment of T. L. Alexander is void as against the
assignee, and is no lien on the property of the bankrupt in
the hands of his assignee.
DECREE REVERSED

AND THE CASE REMANDED.

CASE OF BRODERICK'S WILL.

1. A court of equity has not jurisdiction to avoid a will or to set aside the
probate thereof on the ground of fraud, mistake, or forgery; this being
within the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of probate.
* 17 Wallace, 473.

