MITCHELL V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

conceal itself, the statute does not begin to run until the
'fraud is discovered by, or becomes known to, the party
suing, or those in privity with him.
The result of this proposition is that the decree of the
Circuit Court sustaining the demurrer and dismissing the
bill must be REVERSED, with directions for further proceedings,
IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

MITCHELL V. UNITED STATES.
A resident of a loyal State, who, after the 17th of July, 1861, and just after
the late civil war had become flagrant, went, under a military pass of a
Federal officer into the rebel States, and in November and December,
1864, bought a large quantity of cotton there (724 bales), and never re
turned to the loyal States until just after that and when the war was
not far from its close-when he did return to his old domicile-having,
during the time that he was in the rebel States transacted business, collected debts, and purchased the cotton, held, on a question whether he
had been trading with the enemy, not to have lost his original domicile,
and accordingly to have been so trading.
APPEAL from the Court of Claims. That court found the
following facts:
At the beginning of the late rebellion, Mitchell, the claimant and appellant, lived in Louisville, Kentucky. He was
engaged in business there. In July, 1861, and after the 17th
of that month, he procured from the proper military authority of the United States in Kentucky a pass permitting
him to go through the army lines into the insurrectionary
territory. He thereupon went into the insurgent States and
remained there until the latter part of the year 1864. He
then returned to Louisville. While in the Confederate
States he transacted business, collected debts, and purchased
from different parties 724 bales of cotton. He took possession of the cotton and stored it in Savannah. Upon the
capture of that place by General Sherman the cotton was

Oct. 1874.]

MITCHELL V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

seized by the military authorities. It was subsequently sold
by the agents of the government. The proceeds, amounting to the sum of $128,692.22, were now in the treasury.
Mitchell bought the cotton in November and December,
1864. He remained within the insurrectionary lines from
July, 1861, until after the capture of Savannah by the arms
of the United States.
The Court of Claims was equally divided in opinion as to
whether the claim of Mitchell could be sustained, and accordingly dismissed his petition. Mitchell then removed the
case to this court by appeal, assigning for error that on the
facts found the Court of Claims should not have dismissed
the petition, but should have decided that he acquired a
valid title to the cotton.
Mr. 3. B. Harlan,for the appellant; Mr. G. H. Williams,
Attorney- General, and Mr. John Goforth, Assistant AttorneyGeneral, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court, as follows:
At the time when Mitchell passed within the rebel lines
the war between the loyal and the disloyal States was flagrant.
It speedily assumed the largest proportions. Important belligerent rights were conceded by the United States to the
insurgents. Their soldiers when captured were treated as
prisoners of war, and were exchanged and not held for
treason. Their vessels when captured were dealt with by
our prize courfs. Their ports were blockaded and the blockades proclaimed to neutral nations. Property taken at sea,
belonging to persons domiciled in the insurgent States, was
uniformly held to be confiscable as enemy property. All
these things were done as if the war had been a public one
with a foreign nation.* The laws of war were applied in
like manner to intercourse on land between the inhabitants
of the loyal and the disloyal States. It was adjudged that all
* The Prize Cases, 2 Black, 687; Mrs. Alexander's Cotton, 2 Wallace,
417; Mauran v. The Insurance Company, 6 Id. 1.

MITCHELL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sap. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

contracts of the inhabitants of the former with the inhabitants of the latter were illegal and void. It was held that
they conferred no rights which could be recognized. Such
is the law of nations, flagrantebello, as administered by courts
of justice.*
While such was the law as to dealings between the inhabitants of the respective territories, contracts between the inhabitants of the rebel States not in aid of the rebellion were
as valid as those between themselves of the inhabitants of
the loyal States. Hence this case turns upon the point
whether the appellant was domiciled in the Confederate
States when he bought the cotton in question.
When he took his departure for the South he lived and
was in business at Louisville. He returned thither when
Savannah was captured and his cotton was seized. It is to
the intervening tract of time we must look for the means
of solving the question before us. There is nothing in the
record which tends to show that when he left Louisville he
did not intend to return, or that while in the South he had
any purpose to remain, or that when he returned to Louisville he had any intent other than to live there as he had
done before his departure. Domicile has been thus defined:
"A residence at a particular place accompanied with positive
or presumptive proof of an intention to remain there for an
unlimited time."t This definition is approved by Phillimore
in his work on the subject.T By the term domicile, in its ordinary acceptation, is meant the place where a person lives
and has his home.ยง The place where a person lives is taken
to be his domicile until facts adduced establish the contrary.f
* Vattel,

220; Griswold v.Waddington, 16 Johnson, 438; Cooledge v.

Guthrie, 8 American Law Register, N. S. 20; Coppel v.Hall, 7 Wallace,
542 ; United States v. Grossmayer, 9 Id. 72; Montgomery v.United States,
15 Id. 400; United States v.Lapene, 17 Id. 602; Cutner v. United States,
lb 516.
Page 13.
j Guyer v.Daniel, 1 Binney, 349, note.
Story's Conflict of Laws, 41.
11Bruce v.Bruce, 2 Bosanquet & Puller, 228, note; Bampde v.Johnstone,
3 Vesey, 201; Stanley v.Bernes, 3 Haggard's Ecclesiastical Reports, 374,
437; Best on Presumptions, 235.

Oct. 1874.]

MITOHELL V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

The proof of the domicile of the claimant at Louisville is
sufficient. There is no controversy between the parties on
that proposition. We need not, therefore, further consider
the subject.
A domicile once acquired is presumed to continue until it
is shown to have been changed.* Where a change of domicile is alleged the burden of proving it rests upon the person
making the allegation.t To constitute the new domicile two.
things are indispensable: First, residence in the new locality; and, second, the intention to remain there. Thechange cannot be made except facto et animo. Both are alike.
necessary. Either without the other is insufficient. Mere.
absence from a fixed home, however long continued, cannot
work the change. There must be the animus to change theprior domicile for another. Until the new one is acquiied,,
the old one remains.$ These principleg are axiomatic inm
the law upon the subject.
When the claimant left Louisville it would have beewn
illegal to take up his abode in the territory whither he was.
going. Such a purpose is not to be presumed. The presumption is the other way. To be established it must be
proved.ยง Among the circumstances usually relied upon to.
establish the animus manendi are: Declarations of the party;
the exercise "of political rights; the payment of personal
taxes; a house of residence, and a place of business.J All.
these indicia are wanting in the case of the claimant.
The rules of law applied to the affirmative facts, without
ibhe aid of the negative considerations to which we have adverted, are conclusive against him. His purchase of the
cotton involved the same legal consequences as if it had
been made by an agent whom be sent to make it.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
* Somerville v. Somerville, 5 Vesey, 787; Harvard Coll. v. Gore, 5 Pickering, 870; Wharton's Conflict of Laws, 55.
t' Crookenden v. Fuller, 1 Swabey & Tristam, 441; Hodgson v. De Ba.
chesne, 12 Moore's Privy Council, 288 (1858).
Wharton's Conflict of Laws, 55, and the authorities there cited.
12 Moore's Privy Council, supra.
Phillimore, 100; Wharton, 62, and post.
28
VOL. XXI.

