MARSH V. WHITMORE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

uniform practice long continued can settle the construction
of so important an instrument as the Constitution of the
United States confessedly is, most certainly it has been done
here. Our province is to decide what the law is, not to dedlare what it should be.
We have given this case the careful consideration its importance demands. If the law is wrong, it ought to be
changed; but the power for that is not with us. The arguments addressed to us bearing upon such a view of the subject may perhaps be sufficient to induce those having the
.power, to make the alteration, but they ought not to be permitted to influence our judgment in determining the present
,rights of the parties now litigating before us. No argument
as to woman's need of suffrage can be considered. We can
only act upon her rights as they exist. It is not for us to
look at the hardship of withholding. Our duty is at an end
if we find it is within the power of a State to withhold.
Being unanimously of the opinion that the Constitution
of the United States does not confer the right of sufrage
upon any one, and that the constitutions and laws of the
several States which commit that important trust to men
alone are not necessarily void, we
AFFIRM THE JUDGMENT.

MARSH V. WHITMORE.
1. An attorney cannot be charged with negligence when he accepts as a correct exposition of the law a decision of the Supreme Court of his State
upon the question of the liability of stockholders of corporations of the
State in advance of any decision thereon by this court.
2. 'Where an attorney sold bonds of a client at public sale, and bought them
in himself, at their full value at the time, and the client was aware of
the purchase and acquiesced in it for twelve years, it is then too late for
the client to attempt to impeach the validity of the sale.

from the Circuit Court for the District of Maine.
On the 12th of March, 1869, Marsh, of Maryland, filed a

APPEAL

Oct. 1874.]

MARSH V.

WHITMORE.

Statement of the case.

bill in the court below against Whitmore, an attorney and
counsellor of Maine, to compel him to account for certain
bonds of the Kennebec and Portland Railroad Company,
and to charge him with certain notes of the same corporation, received from him, the complainant; and which bonds
and notes the bill alleged that he, the complainant, had, in
the year 1855, placed in the hands of the defendant as
security for advances to be made by him in effecting a compromise with the complainant's creditors in Maine, and for a
reasonable compensation to himself for his own services as
counsel.
As to the bonds. The bill alleged that in the year 1866, they
had been sold by the defendant at public auction in disregard
of his duty, and at the sale were bid in by himself, through
the intervention of third parties, at an amount greatly below
their value at the time, which conduct the bill charged to
have been in fraud of the complainant's rights, and not to
have come to his knowledge "until lately."
As to the notes. The bill alleged that at the time they were
placed with the defendant, he was instructed to institute
suits upon them and to attach certain personal property of
the corporation pointed out to him, and if the notes were
not thus paid, to collect them from the stockholders, who
were personally liable; and that the defendant agreed to
attend diligently to their collection; that they could have
been collected of the company or stockholders, and that if
they were not collected the failure was attributable to his
gross neglect. The prayer of the bill was that the defendant
might be charged with the full amount of the notes and interest, and might be decreed to surrender the bonds, or, if
that was impossible, to pay their full value in money; or
that such other or further relief might be granted as the
justice of the case might require.
The bill called upon the defendant to answer its several
allegations touching these two matters; and to answer also
certain specific interrogatories which were annexed.
Among the interrogatories was this one, relating to the
bonds:

MARSH V.

WHITM)RE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

"Did you or did you not represent to the complainant, after
the sale of the bonds, that you had made such sale at publiu
auction after advertising the same; and that such sale was bond
fide.?"
The answer denied that the bonds and notes were intrusted to the defendant for the purpose alleged in the bill,
but averredIn regard to the bonds. That they were placed with him as
security for any liabilities which one Paine and himself
might incur for the complainant and for the payment of his
three promissory notes, exceeding in amount $3000, and one
note for $90, upon which the defendant was surety for the
complainant; that the complainant never paid either of these
notes, and that after having informed him, on the 27th of
August, 1856 (the promissory notes of the complainant being
then due and unpaid), that the bonds would be sold on the
1st of October following, and after repeated postponements,
made at his request, the bonds, in June, 1857, after notice
to him, were sold at public auction in order to pay his, the
complainant's, notes; that at the sale some of the bonds
were purchased by third persons, but that the larger portion
were bid in by the defendant; that the prices given were
the full and fair value of the bonds at the time, and greater
than their market value for years afterwards; that the
amounts bid were indorsed on the notes of the complainant,
and an account of the sales, showing the prices obtained and
the names of the purchasers, was transmitted to him; that
subsequently, in 1858, in an interview at Augusta, the defendant offered to obtain the bonds and return them to the
complainant if he would pay his notes, and that he replied
that the bonds were not then worth as much as they were
sold for, and that the defendant must keep what was obtained, and if he were ever able he would pay the balance;
that subsequently the bonds were greatly depreciated in the
market, and in 1858 and 1859 were sold as low as at the
rate of ten dollars for the hundred.
To the specific interrogatory, abovementioned, as having
been put to him about the bonds, the defendant answered:

Oct. 1874.]

MARSH V. WHITMORE.

Statement of the case.

"I did after said sale send to the complainant the auctioneer's
account of the sale, giving names of purchasers and prices for
which the bonds sold, and afterwards, at the interview in Augusta, in 1858, I did state to the complainant, in substance, but
not in the precise words, that I made the sale at auction after
duly advertising the same, and that the sale was a good sale. I
did not, to my recollection, use the words 'bond fide.' I then
stated to the complainant.the gross amount of the sale, and that
it had been applied on the notes."
As to the notes. The defendant met the several allegations
of the bill by direct denial, and averred that the corporation
was hopelessly insolvent, and that all its property was mortgaged for more than it was worth, and that this fact was
known to the complainant at the time the notes were placed
in the defendant's hands; and that a suit was commenced
against the corporation with a view of enforcing their collection from the stockholders, but was abandoned in consequence of a decision of the Supreme Court of the State of
Maine, made in 1858,* that the stockholders were not liable;
a decision which was subsequently, to wit, in 1864,t reversed
in this court, but which previously had been by many acted
on as practically ending controversy.
DI respect to both bonds and notes. The material allegations
of the answer were sustained by the evidence, except that
one in regard to the bonds, which alleged that an account
of the sales, showing the prices obtained, and the names of
the purchasers, was transmitted to the complainant. That
rested on the interrogatory and the answer to it.
The evidence showed also that no demand had been made
on Whitmore to account, until January 23d, 1869, in which
year, after the great depressions already mentioned in the
answer to the price of the bonds, following the sale now in
question, they suddenly rose in value.
The court below held:
As to the notes. That the insolvency of the company and
the decision of the Supreme Court of Maine were a sufficient
defence. It said:
*46

M1aine, 302.

t Hawthorne v. Calef, 2 Wallace, 10.

MARSH V.

WHITMORE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

"This decision was made in 1858, and was almost universally
acquiesced in by the profession; hundreds of actions were decided in accordance -with it, and it was not until December,
1864, that the decision was reversed by the Supreme Court of
the Ujnited States. An attorney certainly cannot be chargeable
with negligence when he accepts as a correct exposition of the
law a solemn decision of the Supreme Court of the State."
As to the bonds. That the answer to the specific interrogatory about the transmission of the account of sales, &c., was
responsive to the averments of the bill and to the specific
interrogatory put, and was evidence in the respondent's behalf to prove that soon after the sale the complainant had
full information as to the prices obtained, and as to the persons by whom the bonds were purchased; that this being
so, the complaint was stale.
The court below therefore dismissed the bill. The complainant took this appeal.
Mr. A. G. Stinehfield, for the appellant; Mr. Artemus Libbey,
contra.

Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
The answer of the defendant is sustained in all material
allegations by the evidence in the case, except in one particular, which we will presently mention.
So far as the notes are concerned the case may be dismissed from further consideration. The bill does not charge
any fraudulent conduct on the part of the defendant in connection with them, but merely a neglect of professional duty
in prosecuting them. The insolvency of the company, and
the amount of its mortgages, are a sufficient answer to the
charge for neglecting to proceed against its property, and
the decision of the Supreme Court justified the withdrawal
of the proceeding instituted to charge the stockholders. As
justly observed by the learned district judge who presided
in the Circuit Court on the trial of this case, an attorney
cannot be charged with negligence when he accepts as a

Oct. 1874.]

MARSH V. 'WHITMORE.

Opinion of the court.

correct exposition of the law a solemn decision of the Supreme Court of the State. That decision was made in 1858,
and was so generally acquiesced in that numerous kindred
suits were disposed of in conformity with it.
The particular in which the evidence fails to fully support
the allegations of the answer relates to the transmission
averred to have been made to the complainant of the account
of the sales had, showing the prices obtained and the names
of the purchasers. But in this particular we think the
answer is so far responsive to the averments of the bill that
it must be taken as evidence on behalf of the defendant.
And there is much in the testimony, and the circumstances
attending the sale, which leads to the conclusion that the
complainant was informed of the prices received. He was
deeply interested in the sale; he had notice of the time and
place at which it was to be made; and it had been postponed on several occasions at his request. It is hardly credible that he did not ascertain the prices which the bonds
brought when the sale was made. It is not a reasonable inference that he lost all interest in the result when he was
unable to obtain a further postponement of the sale. And
if he ascertained the prices, it is highly probable that he
ascertained the names of the purchasers also.
The sale of the bonds was made in June, 1857, and it was
not until January, 1869, nearly twelve years afterwards, that
the complainant asserted any claim to the bonds, or any
claim that the defendant was accountable to him for any
neglect of duty or misconduct in relation to them. The
question, therefore, is, whether the complainant under these
circumstances, after this long acquiescence in the acts of the
defendant, with knowledge of the transaction, can call upon
him to account for the present value of the bonds purchased
by him. Most undoubtedly that sale was voidable. The
character of vendor and that of purchaser cannot be held
by the same person. They impose different obligations.
Their union in the same person would at once raise a conflict between interest and duty, and, constituted as humanity
is, in the majority of cases duty would be overborne in the

MARSH V.

WHITMORE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

struggle. The law, therefore, wisely prohibits a party selling on another's account from becoming a buyer on his own
at the sale, and will always condemn transactions of that
character whenever their enforcement is attempted. The
complainant could have treated the purchase made by the
defendant as a nullity. He could have insisted that the relation of the defendant to the property was not changed by
the proceeding, and that he stood charged with the same
trust respecting it with which he was charged previously.
And were there nothing more in the case than the fact of
the sale and purchase, the complainant would be entitled to
call the defendant to account for the full value of the bonds.
But unfortunately for him there is more in the case. He
has adopted and approved of the transaction. His declaration to the defendant at Augusta the year following the sale
is evidence tending to that effect, and considered in connection with his long acquiescence in the transaction, must be
deemed conclusive. Had he at once denied the validity of
the transaction, or by any declaration or proceeding indi'cated dissatisfaction with it, or even refrained from expressions of approval, he would have stood in a court of equity
in a very different position. There is no doubt that the
prices bid at the sale were all that the bonds were then
worth, and there is no reason for imputing intentional fraud
to the defendant. Under these circumstances he may very
well have been justified in assuming, and in acting upon the
assumption, that the complainant was satisfied with his proceedings. The fact that the complainant never felt himself
aggrieved until the bonds of the company had risen to their
par value, which only occurred after this court had adjudged,
on appeal from the Supreme Court of the State, that the
stockholders were personally liable for its debts, leads to the
inference that the present suit was prompted more by a
spirit of speculation than any sentiment that injustice had
been done to him.
At any rate the claim now presented is a stale one. The
complainant does not set forth specifically any grounds which
could have constituted impediments to an earlier prosecn.

Oct. 1874.]

ADAMS

v.

ADAMS.

Syllabus.

tion of his suit. He does not even inform us when he first
became acquainted with his supposed wrongs. His language is that he was not aware of the purchase by the defendant until lately-language altogether too vague to invoke
the action of a court of equity. The party, says this court
in Badger v. Badger,* citing from previous decisions, who
appeals to the conscience of the chancellor in support of a
claim, where there has been laches in prosecuting it, or long
acquiescence in the assertion of adverse rights, "should set
forth in his bill specifically what were the impediments to
an earlier prosecution of his claim; how he came to be so
long ignorant of his rights, and the means used by the respondent to fraudulently keep him in ignorance; and how
and when he first came to a knowledge of the matters alleged in his bill; otherwise the chancellor may justly refuse
to consider his case, on his own showing, without inquiring
whether there is a demurrer or formal plea of the statute of
limitations contained in the answer."
The reasons here stated apply to the present case, and
justify the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the complainant's bill; which is, therefore,
A.FFIRMED.

ADAMS V. ADAMS.
1. When on a bill by a wife against her husband to establish a deed of trust
to a third party in her favor, and now in the husband's possession, which
deed she alleges that he executed and delivered, the husband, in an answer responsive to her bill, denies that he did deliver it, his denial comes
to nothing if he admit in the same answer certain facts, as, ex. gr., that
he signed and sealed it, acknowledged it before a proper magistrate,
and put it upon record; facts which of themselves may, under the circumstances of the case, constitute a delivery. In such a case he denies
the law simply.
2. When husband and wife join in making a deed of property belonging to
him, to a third party, in trust for the wife, the fact that such party was
not in the least cognizant of what was done, and never heard of nor saw
* 2 Wallace, 95.

