Oct. 1874.]

Fox v. GARDNER.
Statement of the case.

Any local interference with it will demand from the National legislature the exercise of all the just powers with
which it is clothed.
But whether the power to afford relief from onerous exactions for transportation does, or does not, exist in the
General government, we are bound to sustain the constitu-

tional powers and prerogatives of the States, as well as those
of the United States, whenever they are brought before us
for adjudication, no matter what may be the consequences.
And, in the case before us, we are of opinion that these
powers have not been transcended.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice MILLER, dissenting:
I am of opinion that the statute of Maryland requiring
the railroad company to pay into the treasury of the State
one-fitth of the amount received by it from passengers on
the branch of the road between Baltimore and Washington,
confined as it is exclusively to passengers on that branch of
the road, was intended to raise a revenue for the State from
all persons coming to Washington by rail, and had that effect
for twenty-five years, and that the statute is, therefore, void
within the principle laid down by this court in Crandallv.
Nevada.*

Fox

V. GARDNER, ASSIGNEE.

Where a debtor, knowing that his creditor is insolvent, accepts a draft
drawn on him by such creditor, the draft being drawn and accepted
with the purpose of giving a preference, the transaction is a fraud on
the Bankrupt Act, and the assignee in bankruptcy can recover from the
acceptor the amount of the draft.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Western District of

Wisconsin ; the case being thus:
Fox & Howard had contracted with a railroad company to
* 6 Wallace, 35.

476

Fox v. GARDNER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

make its railroad, and on the 4th of October, 1870, employed
one 1N. Young as a contractor (excavator) under them. By
the terms of the contract with Young, Fox & Howard were
to pay him, on the 15th of December, 1870, a certain sum
per cubic yard of earth excavated; payments to be made as
follows:
"To the laborers employed in doing said work the amount
ascertained to be due to them for their services and the balance
to the said Young."

Young finished his work November 24th, 1870, and being
in debt to one Burrows, as also to three other persons severally, to the extent of $3692, gave to him and them drafts on
Fox & Howard for different amounts, in all making that
sum, payable December 15th, 1870. Fox & Howard accepted the drafts in this form:
"Accepted and promised to be paid out of any money due N.
Young, in our hands, after payment of laborer's lien and orders
previously accepted. Done this 1st day of December, at eight
o'clock P.Mi.

"Fox & HOWARD."

About the same time various laborers under Young, and
thus creditors of Young, also gave drafts (in all for $502), on
him in favor of Burrows, who cashed or discounted them,
and by Young's directions Fox & Howard charged him,
Young, with the amount of the drafts as cash paid to him;
they agreeing, at the same time, with Burrows, to pay to him
the amount of the drafts, but not actually paying them.
When Young gave these different drafts he was insolvent;
and on the 7th of January, 1871, a petition in bankruptcy
was filed against him, on which he was, upon the same day,
decreed a bankrupt.
One Gardner being appointed his assignee brought this
suit in the court below, September 12th, 1872, against Fox
& Howard, to compel the payment to him of what they had
owed Young, and had agreed to pay to Burrows and the
others, in the manner already stated. The ground of the

Oct. 1874.]

Fox V.

GARDNER.

Argument for the debtor.

suit was of course that the transactions were void under
the' thirty-fifth section of the Bankrupt Act, quoted supra,
865.
The court charged the jury that before the plaintiff could
recover he was bound, under the thirty-fifth section of the
act, to show: 1st. That Young was insolvent when the
drafts were given. 2d. That Fox &Howard had reasonable
cause to believe him insolvent. 3d. That the person or persons, in such case respectively, to whom the drafts were
given, had reasonable cause to believe Young insolvent.
And further, that Fox & Howard bad reasonable cause to
believe that the person or persons to whom they were so
given had, when they took the same, reasonable cause to
believe Young insolvent. But that if he satisfied the jury,
by'the evidence, of all these things, the acceptances of Fox
& Howard were void, and did not amount to payments in
the action.
Under these instructions the jury found for the assignee
the amounts claimed, and Fox & Howard brought the case
here on exceptions to the charge.
Mr. B. T. Merrick (with whom was Mr. B. G. Caulfield),for
the plaintiff in error:
The court below was mistaken in its construction of the
thirty-fifth section of the Bankrupt Act. That section does
not authorize suits by an assignee against debtors of the
bankrupt-who have discharged their debts to him, or paid
money to other persons for his use, within the period of four
or six months specified in the act. It only authorizes suits
against such creditors of the bankrupt as have fraudulently
received such payments. Only the parties benefited by a
fraudulent preference under the Bankrupt Act are liable to
the assignee.
The doctrine of the District Court leads to the most disastrous consequences. For if a debtor cannot respect the
orders of a man in embarrassed circumstances except at his
peril, then he will necessarily precipitate the condition of
insolvency and bankruptcy which a different course might

Fox v.

G ARDNER.

[Sup. Gt

Opinion of the court.

have prevented. It is believed that this doctrine is contrary
to common justice and the established principles of law.
As respects Fox & Howard, the verdict and judgment below were very hard. If affirmed here those persons have to
pay the same debt twice; once to Burrows and the other
holders of their acceptances, and again to the assignee in
bankruptcy.
Mr. W.

. Vilas, contra.

Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The thirty-fifth section of the Bankrupt Act provides that
a transaction like the one under consideration here "shall be
void, and the assignee may recover the property or the value
of it from the person so receiving it or so to be benefited."
The language of the statute authorizing the assignee "to
recover the property, or the value of it, from the person so
receiving it or so to be benefited," does not create a qualification or limitation of power. There is no implication that
the party paying is not also liable. The words are those of
caution merely, and give the assignee no power that he would
not possess if they had been omitted from the statute. In
the present case the property or value attempted to be transferred belonged originally to the bankrupt. On the adjudication of bankruptcy the possession and ownership of the
same were transferred to the assignee.* The attempted
transfer by the bankrupt was fraudulent and void. It follows logically that the debtor yet holds it for the assignee,
and that the assignee may sue him for its recovery.t
Upon principle there would seem to be scarcely room for
doubt upon the point before us. The pretended payment or
transfer or substitution by the debtor of the bankrupt was
in fraud of the act and illegal. It was a transaction expressly forbidden by the statute. The jury found that the
insolvency of Young was known to Fox & Howard, and to
* Section 14 of the Bankrupt Act.
t See Bolander v. Gentry, 36 California, 105; Hanson v. Herrick, 100 31as.
sachusetts, 323.

Oct. 1974.]

Fox v.

GARDNER.

Opinion of the court.

the creditors by whom the drafts were taken at the time
they were taken; that they were given by the bankrupt
with intent to create forbidden preferences, and that they
were accepted by Fox & Howard in fraud of the act. This
is a transaction expressly condemned by the statute.
It amounts simply to this: the debtor of the bankrupt
seeks to protect himself against an aduiitted debt by pleading a payment or substitution' which was in fraud of the
Bankrupt Act, and, therefore, void. The proposition carries its refutation on its face. Fox & Howard were indebted
to the bankrupt and can only discharge themselves by a payment or satisfaction which the law will sanction. A payment
or transfer condemned by the express terms of the Bankrupt
Act cannot protect them.
It is to be observed, also, that when the bankruptcy proceedings were begun Fox & Howard had never, in fact, paid
to Burrows and his associates the amount of the drafts accepted by them. They had simply promised to pay them,
if there should prove upon settlement of their accounts with
the bankrupt to be so much money due to him. This presents them in a still less favorable condition. They owe
money to the bankrupt. They are sued for it by his assignee
in bankruptcy. As a defence they allege that they have
made an agreement with Burrows and others, with the assent of the bankrupt, to pay the amount of the debt to them.
They allege an agreement merely. This agreement has already been shown to be illegal. The assignee, representing
the creditors as well as the bankrupt, is authorized to set up
such illegality. The bankrupt perhaps could take no action
to avoid this agreement, but his assignee has undoubted authority to do so. When the assignee sets up this illegality
and sustains it by proof of the facts referred to, the whole
foundation of the defence falls.
It is well settled that a debtor may pay a just debt to his
creditor at any time before proceedings in bankruptcy are
taken. It is also true that a valid agreement to substitute
another person as creditor may be made, and may be pleaded
as a discharge of the debt in the nature of payment. It is

Fox v. GARDNER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

not, however, payment in fact, and is binding only when
the contract is fair and honest and binding upon the first
creditor.
The right of an insolvent person before proceedings are
commenced against him to pay a just debt, honestly to sell
property for which a just equivalent is received, to borrow
money and give a valid security therefor, are all recognized
by the Bankrupt Act, and all depend upon the same principle. In each case the transaction must be honest, free
from all intent to defraud or delay creditors, or to give a
preference, or to impair the estate.*
If there is fraud, trickery, or intent to delay or to prefer
one creditor over others, the transaction cannot stand.
It is urged that Fox & Howard are liable upon the drafts
to the creditors of Young, in whose favor the acceptances
were given. Should this be so it would but add another to
that large class of cases in which persons endeavoring to
defraud others are caught in their own devices. The law
looks with no particular favor on this class of sufferers.
In the present case, however, there seems to be no such
difficulty. The acceptances were a part of an illegal contract, and no action will lie upon them in favor of those
making claim to them. They are guilty parties to the transaction'and can maintain no action to enforce it.t The law
leaves these parties where it finds them, giving aid to
neither. The drafts cannot pass into the hands of bond fide
holders, as by the terms of the acceptances they are to remain in the possession of Fox & Howard until they can be
paid by authority of law. When Fox & Howard pay to the
assignee the debt due from them to Young they will pay it
to the party entitled to receive it and will have discharged
their liability.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
* See Cook v. Tullis, 18 Wallace, 332; Tiffany v. Boatman's Institution,
Ib. 376.
t Nellis v. Clark, 20 Wendell, 24; S. C., 4 Hill, 424; :Randall v. Howard,
2 Black, 585; Kennett v. Chambers, 14 Howard, 38.

