810

RAILROAD LAND COMPANY V. COURTRIGHT.

[SUp. Ct.

Syllabus.

No mode of terminating an equitable interest can be more
perfect than a voluntary relinquishment, by the vendee, of
all rights under the contract, and a voluntary surrender of
the possession to the vendor. The finding of the court shows
that this took place in relation to the premises in question,
and that the surrender was accepted by the vendor.
We may safely say, then: first, that no importance is to
be attributed to the circumstance, that the contract contains
no clause of re-entry; or second, to the fact that the vendor
has sought to enforce payment of the amounts which became
due to him before the surrender and abandonment; and
third, that there can be no doubt about the intention of the
parties in making the contract, that the payments and the
cutting should proceed in the ratio specified; or fourth, that
when the payments ceased it was intended, and is the law,
that the cutting should also cease; or fifth, that by the facts
appearing by the finding of the court the plaintiff below is
entitled to a judgment for the value of the lumber taken
from his possession, with interest.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED

RAILROAD LAND COMPANY V.

(OURTRIGHT.

On the 15th of May, 1856, Congress passed an act entitled "An act making
a grant of lands to the State of Iowa, in alternate sections, to aid in the
construction of certain railroads in said State" (11 Stat. at Large, 9).
That act grasted to the State for the purpose of aiding in the construction of a railroad between certain specified places, alternate sections of
land, designated by odd numbers, for six sections in width on each side
of the road, to be selected within fifteen miles therefrom. And the act
declared that the lands thus granted should be exclusively applied to
the construction of the road, and be subject to the disposal of the legislature for that purpose and no other, and only in the manner following,
that is to say, a quantity of land not exceeding one hundred and twenty
sections, and included within a continuous length of twenty miles of the
road, might be sold; and when the governor of the State should certify
to the Secretary of the Interior that any continuous twenty miles of
the road were completed, then another like quantity of the land granted
might be sold, and so from time to time until the road was completed.

Oct. 1874.]

RAIL-ROAD LAND COMPANY v. COURTRIGHT.

311

Syllabus.
The State of Iowa, by act of its legislature, passed on the 14th of July,
I66, accepted the grant thus made, and provided for the execution of
the trust. By that act the State granted to the Iowa Central Air-Line
Railroad Company, a corporation created by its legislature for the construction of the railroad, "the lands, interests, rights, powers, and privileges" conferred by the act of Congress, upon the express condition,
however, that in case the company should fail to have completed and
equipped seventy-five miles of the road within three years from the 1st
day of December then next following, and thirty miles in addition in each
year thereafter for five years, and the remainder of its whole line in one
year thereafter, or on the 1st of December, 1865, then it should be competent for the State to resume all rights to the lands conferred by the
act remaining undisposed of by the company. The company accepted
the grant from the State, with its conditions, and immediately thereafter caused a survey and location of the line of the road to be made, a
map of which was filed in the proper offices in the State and at Washington. During the years 1857 and 1858 the company performed a
large amount of grading upon the road, and sold one hundred and
twenty sections of the land granted, a portion of them to the contractor
who graded the road, which sections were selected within a continuous
twenty miles of the line of the road. The selections were approved by
the Secretary of the Interior, and the sections were certified by him to
the State. Those, however, selected were not from lands lying along
the eastern end of the road, as they might have been, but from lands
lying further west. Although the company did a large amount of grading, it never completed any part of the road, and in March, 1860, the
legislature of Iowa resumed the lands, interests, rights, powers, and
privileges conferred upon the company, and repealed the clauses of the
act granting them; Held,
1st. That the act of Congress authorized a sale of one hundred and twenty
sections in advance of the construction of any part of the road, and
that it was only as to the sale of the remaining sections that the provision requiring a previous completion of twenty miles applied;
2d. That there was no restriction upon the State as to the place where the
one hundred and twenty sections should be selected along the line of
the road, except that they should be included within a continuous
length of twenty miles on each side; and that they might be selected
from lands adjoining the eastern end of the road or the western end,
or along the central portion;
8d. That the company mentioned in the act of the State, of July 14th,
1856, took the title and interests of the State upon the terms, conditions, and restrictions expressed in the act of Congress, and that the
further conditions as to the completion of the road imposed by the
State were conditions subsequent; and4th. That the purchasers of the one hundred and twenty sections took a
good title to the property, although no part of the road was constructed at the time.

312

RAILROAD LAND COMPANY V. COURTRIGHT. [Sup. Ct.
Statement of the case.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Iowa.
On the 31st of January, 1870, Milton Courtright brought,
in a District Court of the State of Iowa, an action against
the Iowa Railroad Land Company for the possession of certain real property situated in that State, being part of the
lands embraced in the act of Congress approved May the
15th, 1856.* That act granted to the State, for the purpose
of aiding in the construction of a railroad from Lyons City,
in that State, northwesterly, to a point of intersection with
the main line of the Iowa Central Air-Line Railroad, near
Maquoketa, and thence to the Missouri River, alternate sections of land, designated by odd numbers, for six sections
in width on each side of the road, to be selected within
fifteen miles therefrom, with a provision that if it should
appear, when the route of the road was definitely fixed, that
the United States had sold of the lands thus designated any
sections or parts of sections, or the right of pre-emption had
attached to them, other lands of equal quantity in alternate
sections might be selected from adjoining lands of the United
States. And the act declared that the lands thus granted
should be exclusively applied to the construction of the road,
and be subject to the disposal of the legislature for that purpose and no other, and only in the manner following, that is
to say: a quantity of land, not exceeding one hundred and
twenty sections, and included within a continuous length of
twenty miles of the road, might be sold; and when the governor of the State should certify to the Secretary of the Interior that any continuous twenty miles of the road were
completed, then another like quantity of the land granted
might be sold, and so from time to time until the road was
completed; and that if the road was not completed within
ten years no further sales should be made, and the lands
unsold should revert to the United States.
The State of Iowa, by act of its legislature, passed on the
* An act entitled "An act making a grant of lands to the State of Iowa,
in alternate sections, to aid in the construction of certain railroads in said
State." 11 Stat. at Large, 9.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD LAND COMPANY V. COURTRIGHT.

813

Statement of the case.

14th of July, 1856, accepted the grant thus made, and provided for the execution of the trust.* By that act the State
granted to the Iowa Central Air-Line Railroad Company, a
corporation created by its legislature for the construction of
the railroad, "the lands, interests, rights, powers, and privileges" conferred by the act of Congress, upon the express
condition, however, that in case the company should fail to
have completed and equipped seventy-five miles of the road
within three years from the first day of December then next
following, and thirty miles in addition in each year thereafter for five years, and the remainder of its whole line in
one year thereafter, or on the first of December, 1865, then
it should be competent for the State to resume all rights to
the lands remaining undisposed of by the company, and all
other rights conferred by the act.
The company accepted the grant from the State, with its
conditions, and immediately thereafter caused a survey and
location of the line of the road to be made, a map of which
was filed in the proper offices in the State and at Washington. During the years 1857 and 1858 the company performed a large amount of grading upon the road, principally between Lyons and Maquoketa.
The plaintiff was one of the contractors who did the
grading, and he received in payment for his work construction bonds and land scrip of the company. These were
afterwards surrendered, and in consideration thereof the
land in controversy was sold and conveyed by the company
to him. .The land thus conveyed was a part of the first and
only one hundred and twenty sections sold by the company,
and these sections were selected within a continuous twenty
miles of the line of the road. The selections were approved
by the Secretary of the Interior, and the sections were certified by him to the State. Those, however, selected were
not from lands lying along the eastern end of the road, as
they might have been, but from lands lying further west.
Although the company did a large amount of grading, as
* Laws of 1856, of Iowa, p. 1.

314

RAILROAD LAND COMPANY V.

COURTRIGHT. [SUp. Ct.

Statement of the case.

already mentioned, it never completed any part of the road,
and in March, 1860, the legislature of Iowa resumed the
lands, interests, rights, powers, and privileges conferred
upon the company, and repealed the clauses of the act
granting them. Subsequently, during the same month, it
conferred the same lands, rights, powers, and privileges
upon the Cedar Rapids and Missouri River Railroad Company, another corporation created under its laws, declaring,
however, that the right, title, and interest held by the State
in the lands, and nothing more, was conferred.
This grant by the State was recognized by the act of Congress of June 2d, 1864, amendatory of the original act of
1856.* By its fourth section it was expressly provided that
nothing in the act should be construed to interfere with, or
in any manner impair, any rights acquired by any railroad
company named in the original act, or the rights of any
corporation, person, or persons, acquired through any such
company, nor be construed to impair any vested rights of
property, but that such rights should be reserved and confirmed. The new company afterwards transferred all its
interest in the lands to the defendant, the Iowa Railroad
Laud Company.
The question at issue between the parties, and litigated
in the State District Court, was whether the plaintiff, Courtright, took a good title to the lands in controversy by the
conveyance from the first company, the Iowa Central AirLine Railroad Company; or whether that title failed to pass
to the plaintiff by reason of the time in which the lands
were sold, being in advance of the construction of twenty
miles of the road; and of the place of their selection, not
being along the line of the proposed road from its commencement on the east; and of the failure of that company
to construct the length of road designated within the time
prescribed, such construction being insisted upon as a condition precedent; and therefore passed by the grant of the
State in March, 1860, to the Cedar Rapids and Missouri
* 13 Stat. at Large, 95.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD

LAND

COMPANY V.

COURTRIGHT.

815

Opinion of the court.

River Railroad Company, and by conveyance from that company to the defendant, the Iowa Railroad Land Company.
The District Court gave judgment for the plaintiff, and
the Supreme Court of the State affirmed that judgment;
and the case was brought here on writ of error.
Messrs. I Cook, N M.iHubbard,and J. F. Wilson, for the
plaintiffs in error; Mr. Plati Smith, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
The question for determination is, whether the plaintiff
took a good title to the lands in controversy under the conveyance from the first company, the Iowa Central Air-Line
Railroad Company, or whether that title is vested in the last
company, the Iowa Railroad Laud Company.
It is contended by the defendants, first, that under the act
of Congress of May 15th, 1856, no lands could be sold by
the State until twenty continuous miles of the road were
constructed; second, that if one hundred and twenty sections
could be sold in advance of such construction, they could
only be taken from lands adjoining the line of the road from
its commencement on the east; and third, that the grant by
the State to the first company was upon conditions precedent, which not having been complied with, the title did
not pass. Neither of these positions can, in our judgment,
be maintained. The act of Congress by its express language
authorized a sale of one hundred and twenty sections in advance of the construction of any part of the road. It was
only as to the sale of the remaining sections that the provision requiring a previous completion of twenty miles applied. It is true it was the sole object of the grant to aid in
the construction of the railroad, and for that purpose the
sale of the land was only allowed, as the road was completed
in divisions, except as to one hundred and twenty sections.
The evident intention of Congress in making this exception was to furnish aid for such preliminary work as would
be required before the construction of any part of the road.
No conditions, therefore, of any kind were imposed upon

316

RAILROAD LAND COMPANY

V.

COURTRIGHT. [Sup.

Ci.

Opinion of the court.

the State in the disposition of this quantity, Congress relying
upon the good faith of the State to see that its proceeds were
applied for the purposes contemplated by the act.
Nor was there any restriction upon the State as to the
place where the one hundred and twenty sections should be
selected along the line of the road, except that they should
be included within a continuous length of twenty miles on
each side. They might be selected from lands adjoining the
eastern end of the road or the western end, or along the
central portion.
The act of Congress of May 16th, 1856, was a grant to the
State in prwsenti; it passed a title to the odd sections designated, to be afterwards located. When the line of the road
was fixed, and the location of the odd sections thus became
certain, the title of the State acquired precision, and at once
attached to the land. And the act of the State of July 14th,
1856, was also a grant inprmrsentitothe first railroad company.
That company took the title and interests of the State upon
the terms, conditions, and restrictions expressed in the act
of Congress. The further conditions as to the completion
of the road imposed by the State were conditions subsequent
and not conditions precedent, as contended by the defendants. The terms, in which the right is reserved by the act
of the State to resume the lands granted, imply what the
previous language of the act declares, that a present transfer
was ihade, and not one dependent upon conditions to be
previously performed. The right is by them restricted to
such lands as at the time of the resumption had not been
previously disposed of. The resumption, therefore, of the
grant by the failure of the first company to complete the
road did not impair the title to the lands, which the act of
Congress authorized to be sold in advance of such completion, and which were sold by that company.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the plaintiff took a good
title to the premises in controversy by his conveyance from
that company. The judgment of the court below is, there.
fore,
AFFIRMED.

