Oct. 1874.]

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.
Syllabus.

to require a formal acceptance of the land on the part of the
corporation before the title can vest.*
The objection to the act of 1871, that it impairs the vested
rights of the plaintif, and is, therefore, repugnant to the
constitution of the State, is already disposed of by 'what we
have said upon the first objection. There is no such vested
right in a judgment, in the party in whose favor it is renthe
dered, as to preclude its re-examination and vacation "in
ordinary modes provided by law, even though an appeal
from it may not be allowed; and the award of the commissioners, even when approved by the court, possesses no
greater sanctity.

JUDGMENT

LITTLEFIELD

V.

AFFIRMED.

PEtRY.

1. Where one instrument, duly recorded in the Patent Office, contains in unmistakable language, an absolute conveyance by a patentee of his patent
and inventions described (in this case applications of a principle of
heating furnaces for houses, heating stoves, steam boilers, &c.), and all
improvements thereon, within and throughout certain States, and an
agreement by the assignee to pay a royalty on all patented articles sold,
with a clause of forfeiture in case of non-payment, or neglect, after due
notice, to make and sell the patented articles to the extent of a reasonable demand therefor, the grantee will not, by an agreement supplementary to such assignment and of even date but not recorded, be reduced into a mere licensee as respects a right to sue in the Federal courts,
for infringement within the assigned territory, by the fact that in the
supplementary agreement the parties declare that nothing in the grant
shall give the assignee the right to apply the principle of the invention
to one special purpose (in this case to the heating of several rooms in a
house by furnaces erected in the cellar), "the same being intended to be
reserved" by the patentee. And this is so, although the supplementary
and unrecorded agreement be referred to in the recorded one. The reservation will be regarded as the grant back of a mere license from the
assignee to the patentee.
2. Such grantee, or one claiming under him, may accordingly, as assignee,
under the Patent Acts, sue in the Federal courts to prevent an infringement upon his right.
* Strang v. New York Rubber Co., I Sweeny, 86, 87.

206

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.
8. Even though this were not so, and he not technically an assignee, such a
grantee may, under the Patent Act. which provides "that all actions,
suits, controversies, and cases arising under any law of the United States granting or confirming to inventors the exclusive right to their inventions or discoveries shall be originally cognizable, as well in equity as at law, in the Circuit
Courts, &.," maintain a suit in his own name in the Federal court
against the patentee, alleged to infringe. He has the exclusive right to
the use of the patent for certain purposes within a defined territory,
and so holds a right under the patent. Alleging infringement, a construction of the patent is involved ; this raises a question "under" the
"l taw." That such a suit may involve the construction of a contract as
well as of the patent, will not oust the court of its jurisdiction. If the
patent is involved it carries with it the whole case.
4. Semble. Where the patentee himself is infringing the rights of his own
licensee, and the licensee (not being able to sue the patentee in the usual
way in which a licensee sues an infringer, i. e., in the patentee's name)
is remediless so far as the Federal courts are concerned, unless he can
sue in his own name-he may so sue in equity, which regards substance
and not form. The cases of strangers and the patentee himself distinguished in the category of infringement.
5. Where assignees of a patent grant to A , and afterwards, not regarding
that grant, grant, though without warranty, to B., if A. reconvey to
them, B. has the right by estoppel against his grantors.
6. Where a person had a patent for "a coal-burner so constructed as to
produce combustion of the inflammable gases of anthracite coals," and
had also a pending application for another improvement in stoves, devised "for the purpose of economizing and burning the gases generated
by the combustion of anthracite coals ;" and afterwards executed a
grant, which (after reciting that he held a patent "for a coal-burner so
constructed as to produce combustion of the inflammable gases of anthracite coals," and that he had "1made application for letters-patent securing to him a certain improvement in the invention so as aforesaidpatented
to him"), then proceeded to assign all the right, title, and interest which
he then had, or might thereafter have, "in or to the aforesaid inventions, improvement, and patent, or the patent or patents that may be
granted for said inventions or any improvement therein"-he will not
be allowed-on his befrementioned "application " being rejeeted, and
on his getting subsequently to the date of the grant and of the rejection,
a patent for an improvement in stoves, so devised as "to burn the
gaseous and more inflammable elements of the coal in contact with its
more refractory portions, and thus secure a more complete combustion
of them both," which his grantee asserts to be for the same thing essentially as was the rejected application, and so to have passed under the
grant-to deny that the application was for an "improvement" on the
first patent. He is estopped by his grant describing it as an improvement on the first patent, to do so. Accordingly, if the second patent
be, in view of the court, for essentially the same thing as was the re-

Oct. 1874.]

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.
Statement of the case.

jected application, it passes under the assignment as an "impr o vement"
on the first patent.
7. Where a patentee is himself the infringer of rights under the patent
which he has assigned, equity looks upon him as a trustee faithless to
his trust; the violator of rights which he was bound to protect. It will
accordingly charge him for all profits improperly made, as well for
profits on original patents, the subject of original bill, as for profits
made on reissues obtained pendente lite, and the subject of a supplemental
bill.
8. Where the suit is for infringing patents for certain improvement in coalstoves-coal-stoves generally and various improvements on them being
long known-and the decretal order directs an account of all the profits
which the defendants have received from the manufacture, use, or sale
"of stoves, &c., embracing the improvements described in and covered by
the said letters-patent and the reissues thereof, or any of them," the
order is too broad. The true rule is stated in Mowry v. Whitney (14
Wallace, 620), where it was held that the question to be determined in
such a case is, "'What advantage did the defendant derive from using
the complainant's invention over what he had in using other processes
then open to the public, and adequate to enable Sim to obtain an equally
beneficial result?" and that the fruits of that advantage are his profits,
and to be accounted for.
9. As a general thing, interest on profits is not allowable. Profits actually
realized are usually the measure of unliquidated damages. Circumstances, however, justify the addition of interest.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of New York; the case being thus:
On the 5th of April, 1853, Dennis Littlefield, of New
York, being at the time the patentee under a patent issued
April 15th, 1851, for "a coal-burner so constructed as to
produce combustion of the inflammable gases of anthracite
coals," and having then on file in the Patent Office an application, dated December 80th, 1852, for a patent securing
to him a stove arranged and operating "for the purpose of
economizing and burning the gases generated during the
combustion of anthracite and other coals"-and the applicant stating that it was his purpose to apply it "to furnaces
for heating buildings, to cooking-stoves or ranges, to the furnaces of locomotives, or in any other situation where it is an
object to economize waste gases or to consume smoke"entered, as a party of the first part, into an agreement-evidenced by two separate documents, the first styled in some

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.

[-Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of the pleadings in the case, "a grant," and the second "a
supplementary agreement "-with the firm of Treadwell &
Perry (to whom he then owed the sum of $1500) as a party
of the second part, concerning the subjects, &c., embraced
in the patent. The "grant" was thus:
"Whereas letters-patent have been granted to and are now
held by the said party of the first part, for a coal-burner so constructed as to produce combustion of the inflammable gases of
anthracite coal, which letters bear date the 15th of April, 1851.
And whereas, the said party of the first part has made application to the Patent Office for letters-patent, securing to him a
certain improvement in the invention so as aforesaid patented
by him, and said application is now pending; therefore, the
said party of the first part, in consideration of one dollar to him
in hand paid by said parties of the second part, and of the agreements herein contained on the part of said parties of the second
part, and of the agreements contained ina certain agreement this
day executed between the parties hereto, and bearing even date herewith, bath and by these presents doth assign and transfer to the
said parties of the second part, their executors, administrators,
and assigns, all the right, title, and interest which the said party
of the first part now has, or can or may hereafter have in or to
the aforesaid inventions, improvement, and patent, or the patent
or patents that may be granted for said inventions, or any improvements therein, and on any extension or extensions thereof
within and throughout the territory embraced within the States
of Noew York and Connecticut, for and during the term for
which the aforesaid letters-patent were granted, and the terms
for which any patent for the aforesaid improvement, and any
other improvement or improvements thereof, or extensions for or of
either thereof, may be granted. And the said party of the first
part doth hereby, for himself, his heirs, executors, and administrators, guaranty to the said parties of the second part the full
and uninterrupted enjoyment of the use and right to use, to
make, construct, and to vend to others to use, the inventions,
improvements, and patents aforesaid, during the terms aforesaid,
as against all other persons whomsoever within the territory
aforesaid.
"And the said parties of the second part hereby agree to pay
unto the said party of the first part, for the right and interest

Oct. 1874.]

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.
Statement of the case.

hereby assignedand conveyed, provided, and as long as said party.
of the first part shall well and faithfully keep and perform all
the agreements herein, and in the aforesaid agreement this day
executed, between the parties hereto, the sum of fifty cents on
each and every stove or coal-burner embracing said inventions
and improvements hereby assigned, which shall be sold by said
parties of the second part, after they shall have sold fifteen
hundred of said stoves or coal-burners; such payments to be
made at the times and in the manner particularly specified in
the aforesaid agreement this day executed between the parties
hereto.
"It is expressly understood and agreed between the said
parties, that in case said party of the first part shall well and
faithfully keep and perform all the agreements herein and in
the aforesaid agreement, bearing even date herewith, contained,
on his part, and the said parties of the second part, their executors, administrators, and assigns, shall without just cause refuse,
or shall neglect to make and sell said coal-burners to such extent as the demand therefor shall reasonably warrant and require, after reasonable notice shall be given to them by saidparty of
the first part, requiring them so to make and sell the same, that this
assignment and transfer shall thereafter be void and of no effect,
and all the rights and interests herein and hereby conveyed
shall thereupon revert to the said party of the first part, his executors, administrators, and assigns."
The "supplementary agreement," dated like the other,
on the 5th of April, 1858, and like the other, with Littlefield, the patentee, for a party of the first part; and Treadwell & Perry, the assignees, party of the second part, was
thus:
"Whereas, the said party of the first part hath agreed to sell,
assign and transfer unto said parties of the second part, all the
right, title, and interest which said party of the first part now
basi or can or may hereafter have, in or to certain letters-patent
of the United States, granted to him on the 15th of April, 1851,
and the invention thereby patented, and to a certain improvement thereon, an application for a patent for which is now
pending, and to any and all extensions thereof, within the States
of New York and Connecticut, upon certain conditions and stipVOL. xXI.

14

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.
ulations. And whereas said party of the first part is now indebted to the said parties of the second part in about the sum
of $1500, and it is understood and agreed between the parties
hereto that the premium of fifty cents upon each stove embracing said invention and improvements of said party of the first
part which shall be sold by said parties of the second part, shall
be retained by them until they have sold fifteen hundred of said
stoves, and applied upon the aforesaid indebtedness of said party
of the first part to them. Now, in consideration of the premises,
the said parties to this agreement hereby mutually agree to and
with each other as follows, to wit :
"The said party of the first part hereby agrees"1. That in case any suit or proceeding shall be commenced
against the said parties of the second part, or any persons holding under them, affecting the validity of said letters-patent, or
either of them, or for iolating any previous patent by the use
and enjoyment of the rights, interests, and privileges conveyed
to said parties of the second part, by an assignment this day
made to them by said party of the first part, or any alleged infringement of any other patent, he will . . . assume and conduct at his own cost the defence against all such suits and proceedings, and keep and save entirely harmless and indemnified
the said parties of the second part, their executors, administrators, and assigns, of and from all damages, costs, and expenses
on account of the same; and further, that he will, whenever
required by said parties of the second part or their assigns, sue
any and all persons who shall infringe or violate, within the
States of New York or Connecticut the said patent, or any
patent or patents which may hereafter be obtained in respect to the
subject-matter thereof, or of either of the same, in his own name
or otherwise, but at his own cost or charge, and shall conduct
the same for the use and benefit of said parties of the second
part, their executors, administrators, and assigns; and he further agrees that in case the said letters-patent already granted,
or any patents which may hereafter be obtained by him as aforesaid for the subject-matter thereof, shall be adjudged invalid, so
as to deprive the said parties of the second part of the use and
enjoyment of the rights and interests conveyed by the aforesaid
assignment, that the agreements therein and herein contained
on the part of said parties of the second part shall thereupon

Oct. 1874.]

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.
Statement of the case.

become void and of no further effect as against them or their
assigns.
"2. That he will furnish to the said parties of the second part,
before the "first day of August next, at the cost price thereof, at
the furnace of said parties of the second part, undressed castiron patterns for four several sizes of the coal-burner, patented
in and by the aforesaid letters-patent, and embracing all the improvements therein for which letters-patent shall then have been
secured, suitable to mould and cast from, and that he also will
furnish at the place and price aforesaid, within a reasonable
time after letters-patent have been secured by him therefor, undressed castiron patterns of the several sizes of all improvements upon said coal-burners which shall be made or invented
by him.
"3. That he will pay the balance of the said indebtedness to
said parties of the second part, over and above the said sum of
$750, in monthly instalments, from this date, of not less than
$100.
"The said parties of the second part hereby agree"1. That so long as the said party of the first part shall well
and faithfully keep and perform all the agreements herein, and
in said assignment bearing even date herewith, contained on his
part, the premium of fifty cents upon each stove or coal-burner
embracing the aforesaid inventions and improvements, which
shall be sold by them, shall be retained and applied by them
toward the payment of the said indebtedness of said party of
the first part to them, to the extent and amount of $750, and
that after such amount shall have been thus paid they will pay
to said party of the first part, his executors, administrators, or
assigns, the premium or sum of fifty cents on each and every of
said stoves or coal-burners which shall thereafter be sold by
them; that they will keep a true account of all sales of said
stoves or burners, which shall be open to the examination of the
said party of the first part, and that a settlement of and for the
premiums on said sales shall be made by them with said party
of the first part, on the first day of April in each and every year
hereafter.
"2. That they will also pay, in the manner and at the times
aforesaid, the sum or premium of fifty cents upon every stove
or burner, furnace, range, oven, or heater, of whatever kind or

LITTLEFIELD V. PERIRY.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

description that they may originate or construct upon the prin.
ciple of the coal-burner, so patented as aforesaid, by said party
of the first part, after patterns of their own design or contrivance, it being, however, hereby expressly understood and agreed by
said parties of the second part,that nothing herein or in said assignment contained shall give to them the right to use or apply the principle of said coal-burner to furnaces that are used or erected in the
cellars or basements of houses, for the purpose of heating several
rooms or larger part of a dwelling-house, the same being intended to
be reserved by saidparty of the first part.
"3. That they will, in ease the said party of the first part
shall well and truly keep and perform all the agreements on his
part herein and in said assignment contained, manufacture and
use all reasonable efforts to sell so many of said stoves or burners
as the demand therefor will reasonably warrant and require;
and that in case they or their assigns shall, without just cause,
refuse, or after reasonable notice from said party of the first
part, shall neglect to manufacture or sell said stoves or burners
to such extent as aforesaid, then that the aforesaid assignment
shall become inoperative and void, and this agreement shall
cease and be of no further effect. But in that event, it is expressly understood and agreed that in case the said indebtedness
of said party of the first part shall not then have been fully paid
or satisfied to said parties of the second part, the same shall
thereupon be at once due and payable, and that the payment
thereof may be required by them from said party of the first
part; provided, however, that such refusal or neglect shall occur
for the reason that said staves or burners cannot be sold by said
parties of the second part on account of some practical defect in
the principle thereof."
The first of these two agreements, the grant, was duly
recorded in the Patent Office, April 11th, 1853. The second,
I
or supplementary agreement, was never recorded.
The application of Littlefield, dated December 30th, 1852,
for an improvement in his first invention, and mentioned in
the two documents, was rejected by the Patent Office, and
on the 23d July, 1853, withdrawn by him.
On the same day that he thus withdrew it he filed a second
application, it being for "a new and useful improvement in
stov6s," so devised as "to burn the gaseous or more inflam-

Oct. 1874.]

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.
Statement of the case.

mable elements of the coal in contact with its more refractory
portions, and thus secure a complete combustion of them
both."
The specification of this application, like that of the application rejected and withdrawn, stated that the patentee did
not purpose to limit it to stoves for heating purposes alone,
but to employ it wherever it could be advantageously applied, particularly to house furnaces, cooking-ranges, steamboat boilers, and stoves.
Upon this application a patent was issued, January 20th,
1854. On the 27th June, 1861, a patent for an improvement
on this patent of 1854 was granted; and on the 9th November, of the same year, a reissue. Numerous other patents
outstanding, and the subject of this controversy, were admitted to be reissues of this patent of 1854 or of patents
for improvements upon it.
In this state of things, Treadwell & Perry, on the 25th of
March, 1862, assigned all their interest to a certain George
W. Sterling. He becoming dissatisfied with his purchase,
the sale, by agreement, was cancelled, and he executed, June
2d, 1862, a reassignment to Treadwell & Perry. Intermediately, however, that is to say, on the 7th April, 1862, Treadwell & Perry had executed an assignment without any warranty of ownership to one Dickey. Both the reassignment
from Sterling and the assignment to Dickey were left at the
Patent Office for record on the 26th of June, 1862, and on
the 2d July Dickey assigned all his interest to Mrs. Mary J.
Perry, wife of John S. Perry; the Perry of the firm of Treadwell & Perry.
Littlefield having entered into partnership with one Jagger, and they two being engaged in making, within the
States of New York and Connecticut, stoves under the pat-'
ents of 15th April, 1851, 20th January, 1854, and June 27th,
1861, and under the patents for improvements on the inventions therein patented, and under the reissues of these
several patents, Mrs. Per ry, on the 27th of August, 1862,-alleging that the invention secured by the patent of April

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

15th, 1851, was regarded by Littlefield "only as a germ
from which a more valuable construction was to arise," and
that with a view of enhancing its value and utility he had
proceeded soon afterwards with various experiments for improving the inventions secured by that patent, and that the
subsequent patents and reissues were but for improvements
on the original one, which subsequent improvements, with
the original one, had passed to Treadwell & Perry by the
"grant,"-filed a bill in the court below against Littlefield & Jagger for injunction and account. Other improvements were patented, and reissues made pending the suit.
Mrs. Perry having died during the suit, her husband, who
was trustee under her will, was substituted as complainant.
All the parties-complainant and defendants alike-were
citizens of the State of New York. A supplemental bill
filed after the date of reissues claimed the profits under
them.
The assignment above mentioned of April 7th, 1862, to
Dickey, was executed by Perry. Treadwell, in testimony,
swore, more than once, that he assented to it.
For the benefit of the reader who may not recall the exact
words of the Patent Acts, and the exact construction given
to them, it may be well here to state1st. That one of the Patent Acts enacts as follows :*
"Every patent shall be assignable in law either as to the whole
interest or any undivided part thereof, by any instrument in writing; which assignment, and also every grant and conveyance
of the exclusive right under any patent to make and use and to
grant to others to make and use, the thing patented within and
throughout any specified part or portion of the United States, shall
be recorded in the Patent Office within three months from the
execution thereof.
"All actions, suits, controversies, and cases arising under any
law of the United States, granting or confirming to inventors
the exclusive right to their inventions or discoveries, shall be
11 and 17. The
*Patent Act of July 4th, 1886, 5 Stat. at Large, 121,
Patent Act oe1870, 36, is to the same effect. And see R. S. U. S., 4898.

Oct. 1874.]

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.
' Statement of the case.

originally cognizable, as well in equity as at law, by the Circuit
Courts of the United States, or any District Court having the
powers and jurisdiction of a Circuit Court."
2d. That under the first of the above-cited sections, it has
been judicially held* that the patent is assignable only
(a) As to the whole interest, or an undivided part of such
whole interest in every portion of the United States, OR
(b) As to an exclusive right within and throughout some
specified part of the United States.
And that under the second of the above-cited sections, an
assignee, either of the entire interest or of the exclusive right
within a specified portion of the United States, may sue, in
his own name, infringers in the Federal courts.
And that it has been further decidedt that a mere licensee
cannot so sue, and that whenever a contract is made in reference to patent rights, which is not provided for or regulated by the preceding or other statute of the United States,
the parties, if a dispute arise, stand as regards their right
to sue in the Federal courts and otherwise, upon the same
ground as other litigants.
The defendant accordingly set up either in answer or argument various defences-as,
I. That the grant and the skipplemental agreement were
one agreement; the latter being referred to in and making
part of the former. That in consequence of the limitation and
reservation made in the supplemental agreement.(supra, p.
212), the right to use or apply the invention patented or applied for, given in the grant, was never given as to part of
the invention, the part, namely, which applied "to furnaces
that are used or erected in the cellars or basements of houses
for the purpose of heating several rooms or larger part of
a dwelling-house; the same, continued the supplementary
agreement, being intended to be reserved." That neither
* Blanchard v. Eldridge, 1 Wallace, Jr. 839; Brooks v. Byam, 2 Story,
525; Gayler v. Wilder, 10 Howard, 495; Potter v. Holland, 1 Fisher, 333.
t Wilson v. Sandford, 10 Howard, 102; Goodyear & Judson v. Indiarubber Company, 4 Blatchford, 63; Suydam v. Day, 2 Id. 20.

216

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

the whole invention nor any undivided part of it being thus
transferred, Treadwell & Perry were, under the above-quoted
statute, which "renders the monopoly capable of subdivision in the category of its locality, but in no other way,"*
not invested with such a title, as under the acts of Congress
would give them a right to sue in the Federal courts; that
the assignee must have the entire right within the territory
specified; that they were mere licensees and unable under
the Patent Acts to maintain a suit in their own name, or
to give another this right; that accordingly no jurisdiction
under the statute existed in the Circuit Courts to hear the
case, both complainant and defendants being citizens of the
same State.
II. That the fact that the contract between the parties did
not vest in Treadwell & Perry any exclusive right in, or legal
title to, or equitable right to perfect a title to any patent or
invention, nor confer any right beyond that of licensees, appeared further, under decisions of the Federal courts, for the
following reasons :
Because it was stipulated that the patentee should sue all
infringers "in his own name," or otherwise; showing the
intent of the patentee to retain the control of the patents.
Because he reserved a premium or royalty on each stove
to be manufactured by Treadwell & Perry.
Because Treadwell & Perry were required to account to
him in a particular manner for all stoves made and sold by
them.
Because there was a provision by which the contract might
become "inoperative and void," and by which "all the rights
and interests .. . conveyed" were to "revert" to the patentee, in the event that Treadwell & Perry neglected and
refused to make and sell the stoves mentioned.
III. That the title was in Treadwell & Perry, inasmuch as
Sterling, previously invested by them with a title, reassigned
to them after they had assigned to Dickey, the argument
here being that there was no actual warranty in the transfer
* Blanchard v. Eldridge, 1 Wallace, Jr. 887.

LITTLEFIELD
4
V. PERRY.

Oel. 1874.]

Statement of the case.

to Dickey and none to be implied; that the transfer was in
fact but a quit-claim, and that it was settled law that,
"If a possessor, without title, convey by quit-claim deed, and
afterwards acquire good title, it does not inure to the benefit of
the grantee."*
IV. That the inventions which Littlefield & Jagger were
using, were inventions under the patent of 1854, or reissues
of it, or for improvements on inventions thus secured; and
that the patent of 1854 was not for any "improvement"
upon the invention of the patent of 1851, or on the invention described in the application of 1852, or improvement
of it, or reissues for either; the things alone transferred by
the "grant."
[On this question of fact the defendants went into a great
body of proof, exhibiting in court models of all the things
at any time applied for, patented, or secured by reissues,
with a great amount of parol evidence to show that the inventions which they were using were not "improvements"
on anything which had passed by the grant or supplementary agreement of 1852, but were essentially different inventions.]
V. That no rights now existed in the complainant, inasmuch as Treadwell & Perry had forfeited whatever rights
the grant gave them, by not making and selling stoves as
they had stipulated by the agreement to do.
[On this point some proofs were given, but it was not
shown that Littlefield had given to them the notice required
by the supplementary agreement, supra, p. 212.]
VI. That the supplemental bill, claiming the profits under
the last reissues, extinguished and cancelled all claims for
infringement of the original and prior reissues, since suits
pending for the infringement of an original patent fall with
its surrender for a reissue, because the foundation upon
which they rest no longer exists.t And that this cannot be
helped by a supplemental bill.
* Jackson v. Hubble, 1 Cowen, 613.

t

Moffitt v. Garr, 1 Black, 273.

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.-The right to sue in Federal courts.

The court having heard the case, directed an account of
"all the profits, gains, and advantages which the said defendants, or either of them, have received, or which have
arisen or accrued to them, or either of them, from the manufacture, use, or sale of stoves within the States of New York
and Connecticut, embracing the improvements described in
and covered by the said letters-patent, and the reissues
thereof, or any of them."
The master, stating an account on these principles, found
due to the complainants as of December 6th, 1869, the sum
of $52,747, the defendant giving little assistance in enabling
him to arrive at the truth of things; and the court, overruling numerous exceptions to the report, some of form and
some to the principles on which the account was stated, and
approving it, added interest to the date of final decree; entering then, March 19th, 1872, a decree for $61,486.
From that decree, John S. Perry, who, by substitution in
the course of the proceeding, had, as already said, become
complainant as trustee and executor of his wife, Mary, the
original complainant, appealed.
.Nessrs. -E. -R. Yoar and H. -E. Sickles, for the appellants;
Messrs. E. W. Stoughton and J. H. Reynolds, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
We are met at the outset of this case with a question of
jurisdiction. All the parties, plaintiff as well as defendant,
are citizens of the State of New York. The power of the
Circuit Court, therefore, to entertain the cause, if it exists
at all, must be found in the jurisdiction conferred by the
patent laws.
The suit is in equity against a patentee by one who claims
to be his assignee, to restrain him from infringing upon
rights under his patent, which are alleged to have been assigned. The Circuit Court has jurisdiction of all suits
arising under the patent laws, and has power, upon a bill in
equity filed by a party aggrieved, to grant injunctions, according to the course and principles of courts of equity, to

Oct. 1874.]

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.

Opinion of the court.-The right to sue in Federal courts.

prevent the violation of any right secured by patent. Every
patent, or any interest therein, is by statute made assignable
by an instrument in writing, and the patentee or his assignee may, in like manner, grant and convey an exclusive
right under his patent throughout any specified part of the
United States. All such assignments must be recorded in
the Patent Office within three months from the time of
their execution. This power of assignment has been so
construed by the courts as to confine it to the transfer of an
entire patent, al undivided part thereof, or the entire interest of the patentee or undivided part thereof within and
throughout a certain specified portion of the United States.
One holding such an assignment is an assignee within the
meaning of the statute, and may prosecute in the Circuit
Court any action that may be necessary for the protection
of his rights under the patent.
The title of the complainant in this case grows out of
what is termed in the answers "a grant and supplementary
agreement," executed in "two parts," between Littlefield,
the patentee, and Treadwell & Perry. The "grant" is one
of the parts, and the "supplementary agreement" the other.
The grant, taken by itself, contains, in most unmistakable
language, an absolute conveyance by the patentee of his
patent and inventions described, and all improvements
thereon, within and throughout the States of New York and
Connecticut, and an agreement by the assignees to pay a
royalty on all patented articles sold, with a clause of forfeiture in case of non-payment or neglect, after due notice,
to make and sell the patented articles to the extent of a
reasonable'demand therefor. This grant was duly recorded
in the Patent Office six days after its execution.
The supplementary agreement was never recorded. It
contained, among other things, a stipulation to the effect
that nothing in the assignment should give to Treadwell &
Perry the right to use or apply the principle of the patent
to furnaces erected in cellars or basements of houses for
the purpose of heating several rooms, it being the intention
of the patentee to reserve that to himself. It also contained

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.-Tbe right to sue in Federal courts.

certain other stipulations between the parties intended for
the protection of their respective rights and the regulation
of their conduct under the assignment. The defendants now
contend that by reason of this reservation, and these several
stipulations, the title of Treadwell & Perry, under the grant,
has been reduced from that of assignees to mere licensees.
Undoubtedly, for the purpose of ascertaining the intention of the parties in making their contract, the two instruments, executed as they were at the same time, and each
referring to the other, are to be construed together. If,
when so construed, they shall be found to convey to the
assignees the title to the patent and inventions and grant a
license back from the assignees to the patentee of the right
to use the patent and its principle in the manufacture of the
designated furnaces, the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of
the cause.
When the "grant" was placed on record, Treadwell &
Perry became the apparent owners of the entire patent and
inventions throughout the specified territory. Neither the
agreement to account and pay the royalty nor the clause of
forfeiture for non-performance contained in that instrument
reduced them to the position of licensees. The agreement
to account and pay formed part of the consideration of the
assignment, and was in effect an agreement to pay at a
future time a sum to be determined by the number of articles made and sold. For the non-payment or other non-performance a forfeiture might be enforced as for condition
broken, but until it was enforced the title granted remained
in the assignees.
The supplementary agreement contained a provision that
Littlefield should sue infringers " in his own name or otherwise," and also defend all suits against Treadwell & Perry
for alleged infringements of other patents by the use of his,
'and this it is alleged is evidence of the intention of the parties to make the grant effective only as a license. It needs
only a slight examination of that clause in the contract,
however, to become satisfied that it was intended only as a
provision foi- placing on Littlefield the costs and expenses

Oct. 1874.]

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.

Opinion of the court.-The right to sue in Federal courts.

of all such litigation, as well as all damages for infringements growing out of the use of the inventions by the
assignees. The suits were to be prosecuted in his name, or
otherwise, as circumstances should require, and he was to
be at all the costs and expense of maintaining his patents.
That is the extent of the provision.
Upon the argument, the reservation of the right to use
the principle of the patent and inventions in the manufacture
of furnaces seemed to be relied upon with more confidence
as establishing this claim on the part of the defendants. All
agree that the intention of the parties, when ascertained by
an examination of both the instruments, must govern in this
action where only the parties themselves are interested.
There are no intervening innocent third persons. Jagger,
the partner of Littlefield, who is codefendant with him, is
charged with full notice of the rights of Treadwell & Perry,
and others claiming under them.
It is a significant fact that the agreement was executed in
two parts. Ordinarily the whole of such a contract is embodied in a single instrument. Another important fact is,
that only one of the parts is recorded, and that the one
which, taken by itself, places the title in Treadwell & Perry.
The record is intended for the benefit of the public. Bond
fide purchasers look to it for their protection. The record
of the grant alone, therefore, furnishes the strongest evidence of the intention of the parties to give effect to the two
instruments as an assignment. It is true that in the recorded part reference is made to the other, but the manner
of the reference is not such as to indicate that the unrecorded part contained anything to defeat the title granted
by that which was recorded. The language is, "in consideration of one dollar, and of the agreements herein contained on the part of the parties of the second part, and of
the agreements contained in a certain agreement this day
executed between the parties hereto, and bearing even date
herewith, hath, and by these presents doth, assign," &c.
And again: "It is expressly understood and agreed between
the said parties that in case said party of the first part shall

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-The right to sue in Federal courts.

well and faithfully keep and perform all the agreements
herein, and in the aforesaid agreement bearing even date
herewith contained, and said parties of the second part shall,
&c., neglect, &c., that this assignment and transfer shall
thereafter be void and of no effect," &c. This is undoubtedly sufficient to charge purchasers with notice of the execution of the supplementary agreement, and possibly of its
provisions, but it falls far short of indicating an intention
of the parties, by anything contained in the unrecorded instrument, to limit or defeat the assignment made in consideration of it. The most that can be inferred from such language is, that the parties had stipulated between themselves,
not as to the legal effect of the recorded instrument, but as
to their obligations or equitable rights under it. We think,
therefore, that Treadwell & Perry were the assignees of Littlefield within the meaning of the patent laws, and that they
and those claiming under them may sue in the Circit
Courts to prevent an infringement upon their rights.
But even if they are not technically assignees, we think
this action is, nevertheless, maintainable. They certainly
had the exclusive right to the use of the patent for certain
purposes within their territory. They thus held a right
under the patent. The claim is that this right has been
infringed. To determine the suit, therefore, it is necessary
to inquire whether there has been an infringement, and that
involves a construction of the patents. The act of Congress
provides "that all actions, suits, controversies, and cases
arising under any law of the United States granting or confirming to inventors the exclusive right to their inventions
or discoveries shall be originally cognizable, as well in equity
as at law, in the Circuit Courts," &c. An action which
raises a question of infringement is an action arising "1under
the law," and one who has the right to sue for the infi'ingement may sue in the Circuit Court. Such a suit may involve the construction of a contract as well as the patent,
but that will not oust the court of its jurisdiction. If the
patent is involved it carries with it the whole case.

Oct. 1874.]

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.

Opinion of the court.-How far the complainant is assignee.

A mere licensee cannot sue strangers who infringe. In
such case redress is obtained through or in the name of the
patentee or his assignee. Here, however, the patentee is the
infringer, and as he cannot sue himself, the licensed is powerless, so far as the courts of the United States are concerned,
unless he can sue in his own name. A court of equity looks
to substance rather than form. When it has jurisdiction of
parties it grants the appropriate relief without regard to
whether they come as plaintiff or defendant. In this case
the person who should have protected the plaintiff against
all infringements has become himself the infringer. He
held the legal title to his patent in trust for his licensees.
He has been faithless to his trust, and courts of equity are
always open for the redress of such a wrong. This wrong
is afn infringement. Its redress involves a suit, therefore,
arising under the patent laws, and of that suit the Circuit
Court has jurisdiction.
It is next asserted that the complainant has not by his
proof shown himself to be the assignee of Treadwell &Perry.
They, on the 25th of March, 1862, assigned all their interest
to George W. Sterling. He became dissatisfied with his
purchase, and, by agreement of parties, the sale was cancelled, he giving effect to the cancellation by executing a reassignment to Treadwell & Perry, bearing date June 2d,
1862. Under date of April 7th, 1862, Treadwell & Perry
executed another assignment to one Dickey. Both the reassignment from Sterling and the assignment to Dickey
were left at the Patent Office for record on the 26th June,
1862, and on the 2d July Dickey assigned to Mary J. Perry,
in whose name the suit was commenced.
It is now claimed that this proof shows title in Treadwell
& Perry, inasmuch as Sterling reassigned to them after they
had assigned to Dickey. Mrs. Perry was the wife of John
S. Perry, one of the firm, and he is now a party to the suit,
having upon her death succeeded to all her rights, as trustee
under her will. Treadwell, the other member of the firm,
has been several times in the progress of the cause examined

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-AMerits of the case.

as a witness, and has testified that Dickey became the owner
of the patents under a transfer to which he consented. It is
clear, therefore, that Mrs. Perry at the commencement of
the action was in equity, if not illlaw, the owner of whatever had been assigned by Littlefield, and that if Treadwell
& Perry had the legal title, they held it in trust for her, and
will be estopped by a decree in her favor from setting up as
against Littlefield any beneficial interest under it. At an
earlier stage of the proceedings it might have been proper
to make Treadwell a party, but upon the case as it now
stands DO possible harm can result to the defendants from a
decree against them in his absence.
This brings us to a consideration of the merits of the case.
On the 15th April, 1851, a patent was issued to Littlefield
for a certain improvement in cooking-stoves, and on the
30th December, 1852, he filed in the Patent Office his application for another improvement in stoves, devised "for the
purpose of economizing and burning the gases generated by
the combustion of anthracite coals." On the 5th April,
1853, he executed the grant and supplementary agreement
already referred to. Inl the grant, after reciting that he held
a patent bearing date April 15th, 1851, "for a coal-burner
so constructed as to produce combustion of the inflammable
gases of anthracite coals," and that he had "made application to the Patent Office at Washington for letters-patent
securing to him a certain improvement in the invention so
as aforesaid patented to him," and that such application was
then pending, he proceeded to assign all the right, title, and
interest which he then had, or might thereafter have, "in
or to the aforesaid inventions, improvement, and patent, or
the patent or patents that may be granted for said inventions or any improvement therein, and on any extension or
extensions thereof within and throughout the district, &c.,
for and during the term for which the aforesaid letters-patent
were granted, and the terms for which any patent for the
aforesaid improvement or any improvement or improvements thereof may be granted," &c. The application of

Oct. 1874.]

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.
Opinion of the court.-Merits of the case.

December 30th, 1852, was rejected at the Patent Office, and
finally withdrawn by Littlefield on the 22d day of July, 1853,
he at the same time filing another application for "a new
and useful improvement in stoves," so devised as "to burn
the gaseous or more inflammable elements of the coal in.
contact with its more refractory portions, and thus secure a
complete combustion of them both." Upon this application
a patent was issued January 20th, 1854. All the patents,
outstanding, and the subject of this controversy, are admitted to be reissues of this or improvements upon it. Little-.
field and his codefendant do not deny that they have used,
the patents issued after January, 1854, and if the title tothem passed under the assignment of April, 1853, it is admitted that such use is an infringement and that the com-plainant is entitled to a decree. The simple question, then,.
presented for our consideration is as to the effect to be given
to this assignment.
It is well settled that a recorded assignment of a perfectedinvention, made before a patent has issued, carries with it
the patent when issued,* and that reissues are not patents
for new inventions, but amendments of old patents. If a
reissue is obtained with the consent of an assignee, it inuresat once to his benefit; if without, he has his election to accept or reject it.
The parties have themselves agreed that the invention of
1852 is an improvement upon the patent of 1851. In the
grant the patent is described as being "for a coal-burner, so
constructed as to produce combustion of the inflammable
gases of anthracite coal," and the application as being for
an improvement upon the patent. It is true that the application is not referred to by its date, but there can be nodoubt as to its identity, because the language adopted to,
describe the patent is not that of the claim in the patent
itself, but of the application of 1852. Besides, the application is said to be -then pending, and it is not pretended that
Littlefield had any other on file in the Patent Office at that
* Gayler v. Wilder, 10 Howard, 477.
VOL.

X.

15

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Merits of the case.

date. This relieves us from an examination of the specifications in the patent and application, for the purpose of ascertaining whether in point of fact the one was an improvement
upon the other. Littlefield having agreed that it was, and
having induced Treadwell & Perry to purchase by reason of
this agreement, cannot now deny it.
It is clear, also, that the idea which Littlefield had in
mind, and which he was endeavoring by his devices to make
practically useful, was greater economy in the use of the inflammable gases of coal to produce combustion. It is not
important in this suit that the patent, which had then been
obtained, was not in fact suited for that purpose. It is sufficient that it was intended to be so. The subsequent devices, better adapted to the end to be accomplished, may
therefore properly be regarded as improvements upon the
original invention. They produce a stove doing the same
thing which the first was intended to do, but doing it better.
This is the proper office of an improvement.
The assignment in this case, by its express terms, covers
all improvements in the original patent or the invention described in the application of 1852. It carried with it the
legal title to the existing patent. If one had been issued
upon the application, that, too, would have inured to the
benefit of the assignee, because in that case it would have
been the assignment of a perfected invention. Without
considering whether the invention upon which the patent
of 1854 issued was not, in fact, the same to all intents and
purposes as that of 1852, it is sufficient for the purposes of
this case that it was an improvement upon it, or perhaps
more properly, that invention perfected. An assignment of
an imperfect invention, with all improvements upon it that
the inventor may make, is equivalent in equity to an assignment of the perfected results. The assignment in this case
being such a one, the assignees became in equity the owners
of the patent granted upon the perfected invention; that
is to say, of the patent of 1854. Littlefield took the legal
title in trust for them, and should convey. Courts of equity
in proper cases consider that as done which should be. If

Oct. 17.

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.
Opinion of the court.-Ierits of the case.

there exists an obligation to convey at once, such courts will
oftentimes prceed as if it had actually been made.
There is here no attempt to obtain the specific performance of a contract, but to restrain this patentee from infringing upon rights which, in a court of equity, he is deemed to
have assigned. In other words, this complainant is in equity
an assignee, and entitled to protection as such. If the assignment in precisely its present form had been executed
after the last reissue was granted, we think it would hai'dly
be claimed that the legal title to all the present outstanding
patents did not pass with it. What such an assignment
could do in respect to legal titles this has done in respect to
such as are equitable. The contest is now between an assignor in equity and his assignee. A court of equity will in
such a case give the same effect to an equitable title that it
would to one that was legal.
It is next contended that the assignment in this case was
forfeited before the commencement of this action, because
of the failure of Treadwell & Perry to perform its conditions.
There is no proof that the royalty on the stoves made and
sold before the action was commenced was sufficient to discharge that part of the debt due from Littlefield to Treadwell & Perry, which was first to be paid out of it before anything was payable to him, and there could be no forfeiture
for a neglect to make and sell, until after reasonable notice
of the default. 1No such notice is proven or even claimed.
It is next insisted that if the plaintiff claims the benefit of
the last reissues, he puts it out of his power to have damages
for infringements previous to their date. The original bill
in this cause was filed August 27th, 1862. Everything since
that time has been done pendente lile. The first reissue was
granted November 19th, 1861, and the first patent for an
improvement on the patent of 1854 was issued on the 27th
June previous. All in the way of reissues or improvements
except these has been done pending the suit. The litigation
gathers to its harvest the fruits of the labors of Littlefield
and his associates during its pendency. His infringement

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.

[Sup. at.

Opinion of the court.-Decree too broad.

and that of his codefendant Jagger, claiming under him,
commenced in 1862, only a short time before the action was
commenced. The question presented by this objection is,
therefore, comparatively unimportant; but if it were not,
the result would be the same. For as Littlefield held his
patents all the time in trust for these assignees to the extent
of the territory they owned, he must account to them for
the profits he has made by the unlawful use of the trust
property.
We are, therefore, clearly of the opinion that the complainant is in equity the assignee of Littlefield, and that he
is entitled to recover of the defendants the profits they have
made out of these infringements upon his rights. So far
there is no error in the court below.
We now come to the decree itself. The plaintiff is entitled, as has been seen, to recover of the defendants the
profits they have made from the use of the several inventions within the assigned territory; but the decree directed
an account of "all the profits, gains, and advantages which
the said defendants, or either of them, have received, or
which have arisen or accrued to them, or either of them,
from the manufacture, use, or sale of stoves within the States
of Iew York and Connecticut, embracing the improvements
described in and covered by the said letters-patent, and the
reissues thereof, or any of them." An account stated upon
these principles has been approved by the court in the decree appealed from.
The decree is, as we think, too broad. After the interlocutory decree below settling the principle of the accounting,
the case of Mowry v. Whitney* was decided in this court.
It was there held that the question to be determined in such
a case as this was, "what advantage did the defendant derive from using the complainant's invention over what he
had in using other processes then open to the public, and
adequate to enable him to obtain an equally beneficial re14 Wallace, 620.

Oct. 1874.]

LITTLEFIELD V. PERRY.

Opinion of the court.-Interest on profits not usually given.

sult? The fruits of that advantage are his profits." For
such profits he is compelled to account as damages.
Here the order is to account for all profits received from
the manufacture, &c., of stoves, embracing the improvements
covered by any of the patents. This would cover all the
profits made upon a stove having in it. any one of the improvements patented. The true inquiry is as to the profits
which the defendants have realized as the consequence of
the improper use of these improvements. Such profits belong to the plaintiff, and should be accounted for to him.
The account of the master may not charge the defendants
with more than the complainant is entitled to recover. The
conduct of the defendants in withholding statements which
it would seem they ought to be able to make, and their evident unwillingness to account, would induce us to sustain
the report had the order of reference been less broad. As
it is, we think the decree, so far as it settles the principles
of the accounting for profits, must be reversed, and that the
inquiry before the master must be confined to an account of
the profits received by the defendants as the direct result of
the use within the assigned territory of the several inventions involved in the case.
This reverses the decree.
Many exceptions were taken to the master's report. Some
were as to the matters of form, and others were directed to
the principles of the accounting as settled by the decree. It
is unnecessary to consider these further. Another account
may dispose of them all.
The Circuit Court, however, in rendering its final decree,
added interest to the amount found by the master to be due
upon the account for profits. In Mowry v. Whitney it was
held that interest is not allowable in such cases, except under
peculiar circumstances. The testimony thus far presented
in this case does not, in our opinion, justify such an allowance. It will be for the court to determine, upon the coming
in of the new report, accompanied by other evidence, whether
the conduct of the defendants has been such as to subjent

THE M OHLER.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

them to liability in this particular. Profits actually realized
are usually, in a case like this, the measure of unliquidated
damages. Circumstances may, however, arise which would
justify the addition of interest in order to give complete indemnity for losses sustained by wilful infringements.
DECREE REVERSED

to the extent hereinbefore indicated,

and the cause REMANDED, with instructions to take a new
account of profits and proceed
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS OPINION.

THE MOHLER.
1. Where, in a high or uncertain state of the wind, a vessel is approaching
a part of the river in which there are obstructions to the navigationas, ex. gr., the piers of a bridge crossing it-between which piers she
cannot, if the wind is high or squally, pass without danger of being
driven on one of them, it is her duty to lie by till the wind has gone
down, and she can pass in safety.
2. The officers of steamers plying the Western waters must be held to the
full measure of responsibility in navigating streams where bridges are
built across them.
APPEAL in admiralty from a decree of the Circuit Court
for the Eastern District of Wisconsin.
The Home Insurance Company of New York was the insurer of a cargo of wheat shipped on a barge appurtenant
to the steamer Mohler, on the 12th of May, 1866, at Mankato, on the Minnesota River, in the State of Minnesotathe river then being high-and destined to St. Paul, on the
Mississippi. The bill of lading contained the usual exception of "the dangers of navigation." The barge was wrecked
by collision with one of the piers of a bridge just above the
city of St. Paul, at about eight o'clock, on the evening of
the day on which the voyage began, and was totally lost.*
* The bridge and piers are the same referred to, supra, p. 1, in The Lady
T'ike.

