RAILROAD COMPANY

V. MARYLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

record, showing as it did jurisdiction of the defendant by
reason of his appearance by attorney. As both parties,
however, submitted evidence without objection upon the
question of the authority of the attorney so to appear, we
should have held them to a waiver of the proper pleadings
to present that issue if it appeared affirmatively that this
evidence had been considered and passed upon by the court
below. Such, however, is not the case. Judgment was
given for the defendant upon the sole ground that it did not
appear from the record or the evidence that summons had
been served. This was error if the defendant had iu fact
voluntarily appeared. The record upon its face furnished
evidence of such an appearance. The court did not find
that this evidence was not in accordance with the facts.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is, therefore, REVERSED,
and the cause remanded with instructions to award a venire
de novo, and permit such amendments to the pleadings as
may be necessary to present fairly for trial the real issues
between the parties.
REVERSED AND REMANDED.

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

MARYLAND.

1. A stipulation in the charter of a railroad company, that the company
shall pay to the State a bonus, or a portion of its earnings, is not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
2. Such a stipulation is different, in principle, from the imposition of a tax
on the movement or transportation of goods or persons from one State
to another. The latter is an interference with and a regulation of commerce between the States, and beyond the power of the State to impose;
the former is not.

3. The power of a State to construct railroads and other highways, and to
impose tolls, fare, or freight for transportation thereon, is unlimited

and uncontrolled. The disposition of the revenues thus derived is subject to its own discretion. But a State cannot impose a tax on the
movement of persons or property from one State to another.
v. State of Nevada (6 Wallace, 42), and Freight Tax
4. The cases of &7randall
Cases (16 Id. 282), cited and affirmed.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MARYLAND.

457

Statement of the case.
5. Relief from onerous and burdensome rates of transportation imposed
under State authority must be sought in the competition of different
lines, and, perhaps, in the power of Congress to establish post roads and
facilitate military and commercial intercourse between the different
parts of the country.
3. The charter of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company for constructing and working a branch railroad between Baltimore and Washington
contained a stipulation that the company at the end of every six months
should pay to the State one-fifth of the whole amount received for the
transportation of passengers. This charter was accepted and complied
with for many years. Held,
1st. That this stipulation was not repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States.
2d. That it was a contract to pay, and not a receipt of money belonging to
the State; and, if unconstitutional, the objection could be set up as a
defence to an action brought by the State to recover the money.
3d. That as the alleged unconstitutionality of the stipulation was set up as
a defence, the State court was bound to pass upon it; and having decided against the exemption thus claimed, this court is authorized to
review the decision.
ERROR to the Court of Appeals of Maryland; the case
being thus:
A statute of Maryland granted to the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company the right to make a branch or lateral
road from Baltimore to Washington City, and of employing
machinery and carriages thereon, for the transportation of
freight and passengers.* And it was further enacted,
"That the company shall be entitled to charge and take for
conveying each person, the whole distance between the cities
of Baltimore and Washington, not exceeding two dollars and
fifty cents, and inproportion for every shorter distance.
"That the said company shall pay to the treasurer of the
Western Shore of Maryland, on the first Monday in January
and July in each and every year, for the use of the State,
one-fifth of the whole amount which maybe received for
the transportation of passengers on said railroad by said
company during the six months last preceding."
* An act of Congress (act of March 2d, 1831, 4 Stat. at Large, 476) gave
authority to carry the branch from the line between Maryland and the Dis-.
trict of Columbia into the city of Washington.

458

IRAILROAD

COMPANY

V. MARYLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

There were other statutes on the main subject, but this
one presents the substance of the enactments.
This enactment was accepted, and the payment made for
many years of one-fifth of $1.50, the fare asked. Hfowever,
after a certain time the railroad company denied the constitutionality of the stipulation to pay, and refused further
payment. Hereupon the State sued the company in one of
the State courts of Baltimore.
The action was indebitatusassumpsit. The declaration contained two counts: the first for money due and payable, the
second for money had and received. In answer to a demand
of the defendant for a bill of particulars, the following was
filed by the State.
"The claim is for the particulars following, viz.: For $500,000,
being the one-fifth part of the whole amount of moneys received
by the defendant for the transportation of passengers upon the
Washington branch of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, from
the 1st day of January, 1860, to the 1st day of January, 1870;
which said sum of $500,000 was received by the defendant for
the use of the plaintiff, and was due and in arrears to the plaintiff at the time of the institution of this action."
The defendant pleaded the general issue, and on that issue
the case was tried.
The record showed that at the trial of the cause, after all
the acts of Assembly constituting the charter referred to, and
bearing on the question, had been submitted, the defendant,
by his counsel, prayed the court to instruct the jury that
these acts, so far as they provided that the defendant should
pay to the treasurer of the Western Shore of Maryland, on
the first Monday of January and July in each and every
year, for the use of the State, one-fifth of the whole amount
that may be received for the transportation of passengers
on the branch road mentioned in said acts during the six
months last preceding, were unconstitutional, because in
conflict with the Constitution of the United States; and
secondly, that the defendant was not estopped from setting
up the defence.
The plaintiff, on the other hand, prayed the court to in-

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MARYLAND.

.459

Argument for the railroad company.

struct the jury that even if the said provision was unconstitutional, still the defendant, by accepting the terms of the
charter, was bound to pay to the State the one-fifth part of
the passage-money in question.
The court granted the prayer of the defendant and refused
that of the plaintiff, and a verdict and judgment were rendered for the former.
The Court of Appeals of Maryland reversed the judgment
and awarded a venire de novo.
Upon the second trial the same instructions were asked
by each party respectively, and the court below, in conformity with the decision of the Court of Appeals, refused
the instruction asked for by the defendant and granted that
asked for by the plaintiff, and a verdict and judgment were
rendered, for the latter. This judgment was affirmed by
the Court of Appeals, and was now brought here under the
assumption that it was within section 709 of the Revised
Statutes,* the old twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
Messrs. J. H. B. Latrobe and Beverdy Johnson,for the plaintiff in error.
The question is, were the statutes of Maryland and the contract
made under them constitutional?
We submit that this question has been settled by this
court in the case of Crandallv. State of Nevada.t That case
arose upon an act of Assembly of Nevada. The act was thus:
"There shall be levied and collected a capitation tax of $1.00
upon every person leaving the State by any railroad, stagecoach, or other vehicle engaged or employed in the business of
transporting passengers for hire."
This court pronounced the act unconstitutional.
Is there any.essential difference between that act of Nevada and the Maryland act?
1. In the Nevada case the effect was to make each passenger leaving the State pay $1.00 to the State. In the case at
*See

the section in the Appendix.

t6

"Wallace, 35.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MARYLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the railroad company.

bar the effect was to make each passenger entering or leaving
the State by the Washington branch road pay 80 cents, or
one-fifth of $1.50.
The payment to the State is irrespective of the earnings
of the company, out of which are defrayed the cost of running the road, &c., and a dividend to the stockholders; these
are met by th6 $1.20, which is the company's share of the
$1.50.
That the phrase " one-fifth of a given sum" is an accurate
statement of the quotient resulting fi'om dividing " the given
sum" by five cannot, of course, be denied. The tax of $1.00,
therefore, in Nevada, was not more specific than a tax of
one-fifth of the gross receipts, when the fare was $1.50, in
Maryland.
In the Nevada case the carrier was made the collector for
the State; in the case at bar the company is made the collector, and required by the law to pay the tax to the State
out of what it receives from the passenger.
In the Nevada case the legislation was general in its operation ; in the case at bar it is special, being confined to a
single company.
But the principle involved is independent of the number
of carriers to whom the legislation is applicable. The wrong
done is to each particularpassnger; and the fact that the law
is not uniform in its operation-that a portion only of the
people who travel that portion, namely, who use a particular
road, is affected by it-is not an argument in its favor.
If it is unconstitutional to exact payment from a person
entering or leaving the State, the unconstitutionality cannot
be evaded by the name that is given to the exaction; and
the fact that in Nevada the law called the collection to be
made from the passengers a capitation tax, and that in
Maryland it is described as one-fifth of the gross receipts of
the passenger traffic between Baltimore and Washington,
can make no difference.
In the -FreightTax Cases,* to which we refer as much in
* 16 Wallace, 273.

Oct. 1874.]

RAIL-ROAD COMPANY V. MARYLAND.
Argument for the railroad company.

point, Mr. Justice Strong, delivering the opinion of this
court, says:
"It has repeatedly been held that the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of a State tax is to be determined not by the
form or agency through which it is to be collected, but by the
subject on which the burden is laid."
2. Is there any distinction due to the fact that in the Nevada case the law imposed a tax, and in the case at bar the
company contracled to pay the tax?
If, as we assume, the law is unconstitutional because of
its exaction from the passenger, it can make no difference
whether the State imposes the tax by a general law or
whether it is the result of a special contract with the party
receiving-it in the first instance. If it is wrong, as the Nevada case has decided, for the State to impose such a tax,
the wrong cannot be rectified by a contract in which the
carrier agrees to pay it out of a gross fund. If the State
cannot, of itself, make the traveller pay a portion of his fare
into the State treasury, it cannot delegate to another the
power to compel a payment that is, subsequently and circuitously, to find its way into it, unless indeed we are prepared
to admit that the law can be simply evaded by the form in
which those who collude to evade it may contract for the.
purpose.
The constantly recurring question is, "Is the charge one
that increases the cost of transportation to the passenger for
the use of the State, beyond what it would be were the fare
regulated by circumstances irrespective of the State ?"
That the company, after fixing the fare irrespectively of
the tax, would pay the 30 cents per passenger out of it, cannot be supposed. Fixing the fare, the amount to be paid to
the State out of the gross receipts, as a matter of course became a matter of consideration; and equally as a matter of
course a sum was fixed, the deduction of 20 per cent. from
which would still leave a remunerative compensation to the
company, which becomes as much the collector for the State
of the latter's 20 per cent. as the stage-owner in Nevada was

162

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MARYLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the State jurisdiction.

made the collector of the $1.00 there. Had the stage-ownei
been willing to pay the tax, he would have added the dollar
to the fare of the passenger, exactly as the company here
added 30 cents to the fare of passengers between Baltimore
and Washington.
In the State Freight Tax Cases, already referred to, it is
said, "In view of these provisions of the statute, it is impossible to escape from the conviction that the burden of
tax rests on the freight (passengers) transported, . . . and
that the company authorized to collect the tax and pay it
into the State treasury is in effect only a tax-gatherer."
If, as just suggested, the form which the State and its
creature, the railroad corporation, agree that the charter
shall assume, is to settle the constitutionality of an exaction
that the Constitution prohibits, and thereby preclude all inquiry by this court on behalf of the public, then the State
of Maryland will have the doubtful merit of furnishing a
form for the safe violation of law; taking the public from
under the shield of this court and placing them at the mercy
of the State and its corporations, who may collude to tax
them.
Messrs. P. F. Thomas, I. N. Steele, and S. T. Wallis, contra.
I. -ro jurisdiction exists in this court, under section 709, to review the judgment below. There is no "Federal question."
The right of the State to recover from the company was
placed upon grounds independent of the question of the
constitutionality of the statutes. The declaration contained
two counts only; one "for money due and payable by the
defendant to the plaintiff," and the other "for money had
and received by the defendant for the use of the plaintiff."
Neither of the prayers offered by the company impeached,
or indeed referred or pointed to the pleadings; so that, according to the established Maryland rule, they conceded the
right to recover on those pleadings, if the evidence established a right to recover at all. But they set up and relied
on the defence of the unconstitutionality of the statutes.
The State in reply, by its prayers, claimed the right to re-

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MARYLAND.
Argument for the State merits.

cover, even if the statutes should be held to be unconstitutional, and without regard to the question of constitutionality.
The company thereupon argued that the statutes imposed
a tax on passengers and required the company to collect it,
which, under the ruling in Crandall v. Nevada,* made them
quoad hoc unconstitutional and void. The State of Maryland
replied, that conceding the statutes to be void for the reason
assigned, the company was liable nevertheless, for what it
had- already collected, and what the passengers, whose rights
only were affected, had already paid to it without dispute,
and waiving their rights. These propositions of the State
were founded, too, on what for thirty years had been established law in its courts ;t law which has also the sanction of
this court; Brooks v. Martin,j being a leading case on the
subject.
Here then was a ground covering the whole case and
broad enough to maintain the judgment of the court below,
which was presented to that court as a proper basis for its
decision, and upon which its judgment was in fact founded.
In such a case, according to the judgments of this court, the
court will not review.ยง
Of course, whether a special collector, who has received
money for the 8tate, under a law repugnant to the Constitution, but to which he was a willing and interested party,
should, on grounds of public policy, be permitted to set up
his own wrong, or his participation in the wrong, as an excuse for appropriating the fund, is a question which belongs
to the State courts, in cases properly before them.
H. But assuming that the case is properly here and that the
constitutionality of the Maryland statutes is to be passed on.
The Nevada act imposed, in terms, a capitation tax of
* 6 Wallace, 35.

t Waters v. State, 1 Gill, 308; O'Neal v. School Commissioners, 27 Mary
land, 240.
1 2 Wallace, 70; and see Bell v. Railroad Co., 4 Id. 598; Planters' Bank
v. Union Bank, 16 Id. 500, where the point distinctly arose.
J Murdock v. City of Memphis, 20 Wallace, 590.

464

RAILROAD

COMPANY

V. MARYLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the State merits.

$1.00 upon every individual who left the State by a public
conveyance. It was therefore a specific tax upon the traveller, to be paid by and levied on him for the exercise of his
right to leave the State by the ordinary public conveyances,
and over and above the entire fare for his travel. There is
no analogy between such a case and the case at bar.
The Maryland legislation, by its terms, instead of imposing a tax on the traveller, provides only that the company
shall semi-annually pay to the State one-fifth of the amount
received for "the transportation of passengers" or "passagemoney." It does not authorize the company to collect a tax
fiom any person, for any privilege, but requires it to pay to
the State every six months a tax of one-fifth of the amount
received by it for its services in carrying passengers. The
"passage-money" received, belongs to the company, to be
used and expended as it pleases. After the expiration of
each period of six months, and only then, the amount of the
tax is to be ascertained and the State becomes entitled to
demand and receive that amount. This is simply a tax on
its gross receipts from passenger fare, and the amount of the
tax is to be ascertained every six months by the amount of
its business during that period in passenger transportation.*
Again, the Nevada law prohibited the citizen from travelling at the usual and agreed rates of fare, over existing and
established routes, and in existing and established conveyances. It impaired and obstructed his existing rights. The
Maryland statutes were passed in order to create new and
improved modes of conveyance; to give to the traveller a
railroad instead of a turnpike.
Further. The right to one-fifth of the amount of the gross
receipts from passenger fare was given to the State as a
bonus for the franchise and as the price of a valuable privilege and option which it parted with on the company's
urgency, and which the State might have refused, on any
terms if it had seen fit. A State may exact from a company
which it charters, as a bonus, or price for the franchise which
* Society for Savings v. Coite, 6 Wallace, 608.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MARYLAND.

465

Iteply.-Jurisdiction.

it grants, and the privileges which it relinquishes, a sum of
money payable in cash, or by instalments, or at some distant
day, with interest payable semi-annually.* How does the
bonus become unconstitutional because its amount is to be
ascertained semi-annually, according to the gross receipts
from the transportation of passengers ? Like the bonus just
referred to, it is exacted from the company-to be paid by
it out of its receipts-and dannot be increased by the State
to the point of prohibition, because its amount is proportionally fixed by a contract which the Constitution protects. The
mere fact that this amount is measured by the semi-annual
receipts from passenger travel cannot convert it into a capitation tax on passengers; and except in that fact it does not
differ from the bonus supposed.
The constitutionality of such a tax as was here laid is
established by this court in the case of "State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts."t
Reply:
I. As to the jurisdiction.
Was there, below, any question of Federal law of such
controlling character that a correct decision of it is necessary to any final judgment in the case? If there was, of
course there is a right of review. We say that theie was
such a question.
The action being one of .indebitatus assumpsit, and the
counts general, the declaration did not indeed, of itself,
show such a question. But when a bill of particulars was
asked for and given, the bill given made the declaration
equivalent to a special declaration in assumpsit on a contract between the company and the State. Hence the State
offered in evidence the statutes of the State giving the
alleged right to the one-fifth. The State, therefore, made
the statute giving one-fifth, and the stipulation under the
statute, an integral part of its case. The case could not
stand, possibly, independently of the statute, and if the
* Gordon. v. Appeal Tax Court, 3 Howard, 145.
VOL. XX.

30

t 15 Wallace, 284.

466

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MARYLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Reply.-Jurisdiction.

company set up that the statute of the State was void as
opposing the Federal Constitution-which by its request to
charge it did set up-and a judgment was entered against
the company, then jurisdiction here arises within section 709
of the Revised Statutes; the old twenty-fifth section of the
Judiciary Act.
The vice of the opinion of the Court of Appeals is that it
divides into two parts a contractwhose parts are necessarily
inseparable. The collection it makes one part, the paying
over another part. The charter gave the right to collect
within the maximum of $2.50. No constitutional question
could arise there. The collection for the purpose of paying
over and the actual paying over constituted the illegal act,
under a contract not to collect only, but to collect and pay
over: necessarily, we repeat, an entirety.
Before the State can establish a right to any part of the
revenue from the road it must exhibit the unconstitutional
act as the foundation of its claim. Put the case in the form
of a dialogue:
"You have moneys wthich belong to me," says the State.
"We deny- it," replies the company.
"Have you not received $1.50 a head for so many passengers between Baltimore and Washington ?" asks the State.
"We have," say the company, "but what right have you
to any part of it ?"
"A statute of Maryland gives me the right," says the State.
The company answers: "That act being unconstitutional
can confer no right. But for the act the whole fare would belong
to us. It falls within the limit that we are authorized to charge
per passenger. You .can claim no part of it unless you first
produce the act; and when that is produced its unconstitutionality defeats your claim."
This answer is conclusive. Jurisdiction, then, exists.
I. As to the constitutionality of the tax.
The tax is said to be a bonus, and therefore valid.
As a bonus is ordinarily understood, it is a payment by the
stockholders in a corporation for corporate privileges. If

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MARYLAND.
Opinion of the court.-Jurisdiction.

paid at once it affects their capital; if paid annually it
affects their income. Bat here neither the capital nor the
income is affected. The capital is not affected because the
payment is an annual one. The income is not affected because this annual paynent does not belong to the company,
but is received by it, accounted for by it, and paid into the
State treasury. Affecting, then, neither the capital por the
income of the stockholders, it comes within no' known definition of a bonus. It is a tax, and nothing but a tax; a capitation tax, in the recognized meaning of the term.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question raised has reference to jurisdiction.
It appears by the record that the question of the constitu
tionality of the stipulation, under the statute of Maryland,
was distinctly raised by the defendant, with a denial of any
estoppel precluding such a defence. The counsel for the
plaintiff contend, and the Court of Appeals of Maryland
held, that whether the stipulation by the State for one-fifth
of the passage-money was constitutional or not, it was received by the company for the State, and was the money of
the State, the company being merely the agent of the State
to collect it; and that the company was, therefore, bound to
respond to the State for it, on the ground that an agent or
receiver cannot withhold the money of his principal under
pretence of illegality in the transaction by virtue of which
it was obtained. The general doctrine referred to is a sound
one, and if it were applicable to this case it would follow
that the constitutional question was not necessarily involved;
but as this question was in fact passed upon by the Court of
Appeals, and ruled against the defendants, though not the
principal ground on which it placed its judgment, it would
be our duty, under our recent rulings on the construction
of the act of 1867, to assume jurisdiction of the case, and
review the judgment of the State court on the constitutional
point. But with great respect for the opinion of that learned
court, we are compelled to differ with it as to the applicability to the present case of the doctrine referred to. We

468

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

MARYLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Jurisdiction.

cannot concur in the position that any part of the passengermoney, when received by the company, became or was the
money of the State. It was the money of the railroad company alone. The railroad company was authorized by its
charter to charge the passenger for transporting him between Baltimore and Washington what it did charge him.
The State cannot be permitted to deny that it had power to
confer upon the company such a franchise; nor can it be
permitted to say that the passenger could complain of any
extortion practiced upon him; for the fare, so far as he was
concerned, was perfectly legitimate. It might have been
greater than it was, and yet he would have had no right to
complain. The State, at least, is estopped from saying that
he could justly do so. The company, then, charged a lawful
fare. The money all went into its treasury together, and
one portion was not distinguished from another. The company was simply under a contract to pay to the State onefifth of the whole amount received for the transportation of
passengers. If there was anything unconstitutional in the
arrangement it was this contract. The grant of the right to
build the road and operate it was constitutional; the right
to charge fare and freight was constitutional; the amount
of such fare and freight would have been entirely in the discretion of the company if it had not been limited by the
grant. There is, in short, nothing in the whole transaction
between the State and the company to which, in a constitutional point of view, the slightest exception can be taken,
except this contract to pay to the State a portion of the
amount received. In the cases in which it has been held
that parties engaged in an illegal undertaking are answerable to one another for moneys received therein, it was the
undertaking, and not the agreement to pay over the moneys
received, which was obnoxious to the law or its policy. In
this case it is not the transaction out of which the money
grew, but the agreement to pay over a portion of it, which
is vicious, if anything is vicious; and the transaction is only
vicious, if at all, because of the reflected effect of the agreement upon it. We think no case can be found where the

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. MARYLAND.

469

Opinion of the court.-Merits.

agreement itself, to divide a common fund or to pay over
money received, as contradistinguished from the transaction
out of which the money arose, was illegal, in which it has
been held that a recovery could be had. If it be said that
the vice, if any, lies back of the agreement, namely, in the
reservation by the State of one-fifth, it would amount to the
same thing. The right to recover would then stand on the
reservation, and would be no better than before.
We think, therefore, that the constitutionality of the stipulation came directly in question, and could not properly be
avoided in determining the case.
In approaching the merits of the case it is unnecessary
to examine in detail the various laws which constitute the
charter of the railroad company in reference to the construction of the Washington branch. They were all accepted
by the company, and no question of impairing the obligation of contracts is raised. The substance is simply this:
That the State granted to the railroad company the franchise
of constructing a railroad from Baltimore to Washington,
and of employing machinery and vehicles thereon for the
transportation of passengers and merchandise, and of charging therefor certain rates of fare for the one, and freight for
the other, the passenger fare not to exceed two dollars and
fifty cents per passenger for the entire distance, and in that
proportion for less distances; and it was stipulated that the
company should, at the end of every six months, pay to the
State one-fifth of the whole amount which might be received for the transportation of passengers. The question
is, whether such a stipulation is, or is not, a violation of the
Constitution of the United States, as being a restriction of
free intercourse and traffic between the different States.
That the road is one of the principal thoroughfares in the
country for interstate travel is conceded, and, indeed, may
be judicially assumed. As, however, nearly all the railroads
in the country are, or may be, used to a greater or less extent as links in through transportation, this road cannot in
principle be regarded as an exceptional one in that respect.

470

RAILROAD COMPANY V.

MARYLAND.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.-Merits.

Commerce on land between the different States is so
strikingly dissimilar, in many respects, from commerce on
water, that it is often difficult to regard them in the same
aspect in reference to the respective constitutional powers
and duties of the State and Federal governments. No doubt
commerce by water was principally in the minds of those
who framed and adopted the Constitution, although both its
language and spirit embrace commerce by land as well.
Maritime transportation requires no artificial roadway. Nature has prepared to hand that portion of the instrumentality employed. The navigable waters of the earth are
recognized public highways of trade and intercourse. No
franchise is needed to enable the navigator to use them.
Again, the vehicles of commerce by water being instruments
of intercommunication with other nations, the regulation
of them is assumed by the National legislature. So that
State interference with transportation by water, and especially by sea, is at once clearly marked and distinctly discernible. But it is different with transportation by land. This,
when the Constitution was adopted, was entirely performed
on common roads, and in vehicles drawn by animal power.
No one at that day imagined that the roads and bridges
of the country (except when the latter crossed navigable
streams) were not entirely subject, both as to their construction, repair, and management, to State regulation and control. They were all made either by the States or under
their authority. The power of the State to impose or authorize such tolls, as it saw fit, was unquestioned. No one
then supposed that the wagons of the country, which were
the vehicles of this commerce, or the horses by which they
were drawn, were subject to National regulation. The
movement of persons and merchandise, so long as it was as
free to one person as to another, to the citizens of other
States as to the citizens of the State in which it was performed, was not regarded as unconstitutionally restricted
and trammelled by tolls exacted on bridges or turnpikes,
whether belonging to the State or to private persons. And
when, in process of time, canals were constructed, no amount

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MARYLAND.
Opinion of the court.-Merits.

of tolls which was exacted thereon by the State or the companies that owned them, was ever regarded as an infringement of the Constitution. When constructed by the State
itself, they might be the source of revenues largely exceeding the outlay without exciting even the question of constitutionality. So when, by the improvements and discoveries
of mechanical science, railroads came to be built and furnished with all the apparatus of rapid and all-absorbing
transportation, no one imagined that the State, if itself
owner of the work, might not exact any amount whatever
of toll or fare or freight, or authorize its citizens or corporations, if owners, to do the same. Had the State built the
road in question it might, to this day, unchallenged and unchallengeable, have charged two dollars and fifty cents for
carrying a passenger between Baltimore and Washington.
So might the railroad company, under authority from the
State, if it saw fit to do so. These are positions which must
be conceded. No one has ever doubted them.
This unlimited right of the State to charge, or to authorize others to charge, toll, freight, or fare for transportation
on its roads, canals, and railroads, arises from the simple
fact that they are its own works, or constructed under its
authority. It gives them being. It has a right to exact
compensation for their use. It has a discretion as to the
amount of that compensation. That discretion is a legislative-a sovereign-discretion, and in its very nature is unrestricted and uncontrolled. The security of the public
against any abuse of this discretion resides in the responsibility to the public of those who, for the time being, are
officially invested with it. In this respect it is like all other
legislative power when not controlled by specific constitutional provisions, and the courts cannot presume that it will
be exercised detrimentally.
So long, therefore, as it is conceded (as it seems to us it
must be) that the power to charge for transportation, and
the amount of the charge, are absolutely within the control
of the State, how can it matter what is done with the money,
whether it goes to the State or to the stockholders of a pri-

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

MARYLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Merits.

vate corporation? As before said, the State could have
built the road itself and charged any rate it chose, and could
thus have filled the coffers of its treasury without being
questioned therefor. How does th,- case differ, in a constitutional point of view, when it authorizes its private citizens
to build the road and reserves for its own use a portion of
,she earnings? We are unable to see any distinction between the two cases. In our judgment there is no solid distinction. If the State, as a consideration of the franchise,
had stipulated that it should have all the passenger-money,
and that the corporation should have only the freight for
the transportation of merchandise, and the corporation had
agreed to those terms, it would have been the same thing.
It is simply the exercise by the State of absolute control
over its own property and prerogatives.
The exercise of power on the part of a State is very dii
ferent from the imposition of a tax or duty upon the movements or operations of commerce between the States. Such
an imposition, whether relating to persons or goods, we
have decided the States cannot make, because it would be
a regulation of commerce between the States in a matter in
which uniformity is essential to the rights of all, and, therefore, requiring the exclusive legislation of Congress.* It is
a tax because of the transportation, and is, therefbre, virtually a tax on the transportation, and not in any sense a compensation therefor, or for the franchises enjoyed by the corporation that performs it.
It is often difficult to draw the line between the power of
the State and the prohibitions of the Constitution. Whilst
it is commonly said that the State has absolute control over
the corporations of its own creation, and may impose upon
them such conditions as it pleases; and like control over
its own territory, highways, and bridges, and may impose
such exactions for their use as it sees fit; on the other hand,
it is conceded that it cannot regulate or impede interstate
commerce, nor discriminate between its own citizens and
* Crandall v. Nevada, 6 Wallace, 42; Case of Freight Tax, 16 Id. 232, 279.

Oct. 1874.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MARYLAND.

473

Opinion of the court.-Merits.

those of other States prejudicially to the latter. The problem is to reconcile the two propositions; and as the latter
arises from the provisions of the Constitution of the United
States, and is, therefore, paramount, the question is practically reduced to this: What amounts to a regulation of commerce between the States, or to a discrimination against the
citizens of other States? This is often difficult to determine. In view, however, of the very plenary powers which
a State has always been conceded to have over its own territory, its highways, its franchises, and its corporations, we
cannot regard the stipulation in question as amounting to
either of these unconstitutional acts. It is not within the
category of such acts. It may, incidentally, affect transportation, it is true; but so does every burden or tax imposed
on corporations or persons engaged in that business. Such
burdens, however, are imposed diverso intuitf, and in the exercise of an undoubted power. The State is conceded to
possess the power to tax its corporations; and yet every tax
imposed on a carrier corporation affects more or less the
charges it is compelled to make upon its customers. So,
the State has an undoubted power to exact a bonus for the
grant of a franchise, payable in advance or in futuro; and
yet that bonus will necessarily affect the charge upon the
public which the donee of the franchise will be obliged to
impose. The stipulated payment in this case, indeed, is
nothing more nor less than a bonus; and so long as the
rates of transportation are entirely discretionary with the
States, such a stipulation is clearly within their reserved
powers.
Of course, the question will be asked, and pertinently
asked, Has the public no remedy against exorbitant fares
and freights exacted by State lines of transportation? We
cannot entirely shut our eyes to the argument ab inconvenient. But it may also be asked, has the public any remedy
against exorbitant fares and freights exacted by steamship
lines at sea? Maritime transportation is almost as exclusively monopolized by them as land transportation is by the
railroads. In their case the only relief found is in the ex.

474

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MARYLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.-Merits.

istence or fear of competition. The same kind of relief
should avail in reference to land transportation.
Whether, in addition to this, Congress, under the power
to establish postroads, to regulate commerce with foreign
nations, and among the several States, and to provide for
the common defence and general welfare, has authority to
establish and facilitate the means of communication between
the different parts of the country, and thus to counteract
the apprehended impediments referred to, is a question
which has exercised the profoundest minds of the country.
This power was formerly exercised in the construction of
the Cumberland road and other similar works. It has more
recently been exercised, though mostly on National territory, in the establishment of railroad communication with
the Pacific coast. But it is to be hoped that no occasion
will ever arise to call for any general exercise of such a
power, if it exists. It can hardly be supposed that individual States, as far as they have reserved, or still possess,
the power to interfere, will be so regardless of their own
interest as to allow an obstructive policy to prevail. If,
however, State institutions should so combine or become so
consolidated and powerful as, under cover of irrevocable
franchises already granted, to acquire absolute control over
the transportation of the country, and should exercise it injuriously to the public interest, every constitutional power
of Congress would undoubtedly be invoked for relief. Some
of the States are so situated as to put it in their power, or
that of their transportation lines, to interpose- formidable
obstacles to the free movement of the commerce of the
country. Should any such system of exactions be established in these States, as materially to impede the passage
of produce, merchandise, or travel, from one part of the
country to another, it is hardly to be supposed that the case
is a casus omissus in the Constitution. Commercially, this
is but one country, and intercourse between all its parts
should be as free as due compensation to the carrier interest
will allow. This is demanded by the "general welfare,"
and is dictated by the spirit of the Constitution at least.

Oct. 1874.]

Fox v. GARDNER.
Statement of the case.

Any local interference with it will demand from the National legislature the exercise of all the just powers with
which it is clothed.
But whether the power to afford relief from onerous exactions for transportation does, or does not, exist in the
General government, we are bound to sustain the constitu-

tional powers and prerogatives of the States, as well as those
of the United States, whenever they are brought before us
for adjudication, no matter what may be the consequences.
And, in the case before us, we are of opinion that these
powers have not been transcended.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice MILLER, dissenting:
I am of opinion that the statute of Maryland requiring
the railroad company to pay into the treasury of the State
one-fitth of the amount received by it from passengers on
the branch of the road between Baltimore and Washington,
confined as it is exclusively to passengers on that branch of
the road, was intended to raise a revenue for the State from
all persons coming to Washington by rail, and had that effect
for twenty-five years, and that the statute is, therefore, void
within the principle laid down by this court in Crandallv.
Nevada.*

Fox

V. GARDNER, ASSIGNEE.

Where a debtor, knowing that his creditor is insolvent, accepts a draft
drawn on him by such creditor, the draft being drawn and accepted
with the purpose of giving a preference, the transaction is a fraud on
the Bankrupt Act, and the assignee in bankruptcy can recover from the
acceptor the amount of the draft.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Western District of

Wisconsin ; the case being thus:
Fox & Howard had contracted with a railroad company to
* 6 Wallace, 35.

