492

ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

willingness to give it. The narrow construction suggested
would leave to the party needing the evidence in such cases
no choice but to forego it, or fall back upon a bill of discovery. It is hardly credible that Congress, in departing
from the long-established restriction as to parties to the
record, intended to stop short of giving the full measure of
relief. We can see no reason for such a limitation. The
purpose of the act in making the parties competent was, except as to those named in the proviso, to put. them upon a
footing of equality with other witnesses, all to be admissible
to testify for themselves and compellable to testify for the
others. This conclusion is supported by all the considerations applicable to the subject.
ORDER MADE.

ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.
1. A railroad 455 miles long, 42 miles of which were in a State other than
that by which it was incorporated, held to be "1doing business" within
the State where the 42 miles were, within the meaning of an act taxing
all railroad companies " doing business within the State and upon whose
road freight may be transported."
2. It being settled law that the language by which a State surrenders its
right of taxation, must be clear and unmistakable, a grant by one State
to a corporation of another State to exercise a part of its franchise within
the limits of the State making the grant, as above said, and laying a tax
upon it at the time of the grant, does not, of itself, preclude a right of
further taxation by the same State.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania.
The question in this case was that of the right and intention of the State of Pennsylvania to impose a tax upon the
gross receipts of the Erie Railway Company, a corporation
created by the State of INew York and having a portion of
its road in Pennsylvania. The case was thus:
In May, 1868, the legislature of Pennsylvania passed an
act, by the seventh and eighth sections of which there was
imposed a tax of three-fourths of one per cent. upon the

Oct. 1874.] ERE RAILWAY COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.

493

Statement of the case.

gross receipts "of every railroad company, steamboat company, now or hereafter doing business in the State, and
upon whose works freight may be transported, whether by
such company or individuals."
Under this section the accounting officers of the State of
Pennsylvania settled an account against the Erie Railway
Company. From this settlement an appeal was taken, in
pursuance of the practice of that State, by the company to
the Dauphin County Court, where a verdict for $76,788 was
rendered in favor of the State, which, upon an appeal to the
Supfeme Court of the State, was sustained. From this
judgment of the Supreme Court a writ of error brought the
case to this court.
It was decided by this court, as the reader will remember,
in the case of the Stale Tax on Railway Gross Reeeipts,* that
a tax upon the gross receipts of a railroad company is such
a tax as it is within the power of the State to impose.
Not denying the effect of this decision, the Erie Railway
Company still contended that the tax in question was not
legal, for two reasons: 1st. Because this company was not
intended by the legislature to be embraced within the terms
of the act of 1868; and 2d, because the terms and conditions
of former acts of the legislature had created an agreement
with the company that it should be exempt from taxation
except to a limited extent and in a specified manner, which
was not the manner in which it was now taxed.
To understand these positions, it is necessary to give a
short statement both about the company and about the acts
of Pennsylvania, whose meaning was under consideration.
The Erie Railroad Company was chartered by an act of
the legislature of the State of New York, April 24th, 1832,
with power to construct a railroad from the city of New
York to Lake Erie, through the southern tier of counties of
the State of New York. By an act passed in 1846 it was
authorized to locate a certain portion of its road in the Stateof Pennsylvania. By subsequent foreclosure and legislation
* 15 Wallace, 284.

4941

ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the present Erie Railway Company was formed, with all the
rights and authorities conferred upon the Erie Railroad
Company.
On the 16th of February, 1841, the legislature of Pennsylvania, by an act in which it is recited that for the purpose of avoiding certain engineering difficulties in one of
the counties of New York, through which the straightest
course of the road of the Erie Railroad Company lay, it was
desirable that the road should be located for a distance of
about fifteen miles through the county of Susquehanna, a
county on the north line of Pennsylvania, enacted that the
said road might be located upon such route through said
Susquehanna County as the company should find to be expedient. The Company was authorized to enter upon and
take the lands of individuals; also gravel, stone, or wood,
for the purpose of constructing the road; paying for the
same if the amount was agreed upon; if not, to be ascertained by an appraisement of the damages as in the act is
prescribed. Nothing of any sort was said in this act about
taxation.
By a second act, an act of March 27th, 1846, authority
was further given to this company to construct its road
through another of the northern counties of Pennsylvaniathe county of Pike-for a distance not exceeding thirty
miles, with the same general powers and under the same
general restrictions.
This act contained two provisions in reference to taxation.
One was in section five of the act, by which it was enacted
that, after the road should be completed through the counties of Pike and Susquehanna, an accurate account of the
cost of that portion of the road should be filed in the office
of the auditor-general, and that, after the road should be
completed to Dunkirk, or extended by any other improvement to Lake Erie, the company should annually pay into
the treasury the sum of $10,000.
The other was in the sixth section, which provided that
the stock of the company to an amount equal to the cost of
the construction of that part of their road situate in Penn-

Oct. 1874.]

ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.

495

Argument for the railway company.

sylvania "shall be subject to taxation by this Commonwealth
in the same manner and at the same rate as other similar
property is or may be subject; . . . and the company shall
annually make a statement of its affairs . . . and of the

business done upon said road during the previous year, said
statement to contain a full and accurate account of the number of passengers, amount and weight of produce, merchandise, lumber, coal, and minerals transferred on said road
east of Dunkirk and west of Piermont."
,.But in neither section five nor section six was there any
engagement in terms not to tax the road in any other way
than by them was done.
The whole length of the Erie railroad is 455 miles, 42
miles of which are in the State of Pennsylvania, in Pike and
Susquehanna Counties.
The gross receipts of the company upon its main line (of
which this 42i miles were a part) in the year 1869 were
$9,266,849.33. Of this sum 1ยง'gths, viz., $884,988.88, was
adjudged to be the portion taxable in Pennsylvania under
the statute imposing the tax in question. Upon this sum,
three-fourths of one per cent. was imposed as a tax, and in
this manner the sum of the tax for several years, with interest and expenses, was made up.
Mr. W. JF.McFarland,for the railroad company, plaintif in
error, argued1st. That the legislature of Pennsylvania did not intend to
bring this road within the tax provisions of the act of 1868,
because the company was not "doing business" in that
State in the sense intended in the act, but was, as to nearly
all the freight from the transportation of which the gross
receipts accrued, merely using the right of way through a
small portion of the territory of Pennsylvania.
2d. That the railway company had purchased this right
of way from the State of Pennsylvania and paid her for it,
and that giving to the act of 1868 the construction which
the accounting officers and the Supreme Court of the State
on the appeal of this company gave to it, was really impair-

496

ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the railway company.

ing an obligation which the State had impliedly made by its
act of 1846; an obligation not to tax the road otherwise than
it was taxed by the two sections of that act; a taxation constant and heavy. The counsel relied much upon the case of
the N'ew York and Erie Railroad Company v. Sabin,* where
the Supreme Court thus defined the relations of the State to
this corporation :
"We are of opinion that the annual tax of $10,000, imposed
upon the company by the fifth sectian of the act of 27th March,
1846, was intended to compensate the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for the right of way through her territory, and that
the tax imposed by the sixth section of said act upon that portion of the company's stock which represents the costs of construction in Pennsylvania was meant to be in lieu of all other
taxation of the property of the company within her borders."
This, he argued, was intended by the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania at that day to be a general and exhaustive
statement of the liability of the company to the State, present
and future, for the privileges which it exercised within the
State. And the fact that the State did not, by its act of
1846, in terms, exempt the railway company from taxation,
was, he argued, unimportant; since an obligation not to tax
could arise by implication just as much as be made by formal
words of contract. And here, as he argued, it was made by
the tax-a heavy tax-actually laid by the two provisions
abbut taxation in the act of 1846, authorizing the building
of the road through the county of Pike. The maxim of
expressio unius, &c., applied.
He argued further from certain details and machinery of
the act of 1868, which he set out and relied on, that the provisions of the act of 1868 could not be made applicable to
this case without requiring on the part of the court the introduction of new clauses and provisions which the legislature
had not seen fit to introduce, and which clauses and provisions, the learned counsel argued, were beyond its power
to introduce.
* 26 Pennsylvania State, 244.

Oct. 1874.]

ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.

497

Opinion of the court.

Mr. S. .EDiramick, attorney-general of Pennsylvania (with
whom was Mr. L. D. Gilbert), contra.
Mr. Justice IUITT delivered the opinion of the court.
It is argued, in the first place, that the Erie company is
not doing business in the State, in the sense intended by the
act of 1868. To this argument the answer is twofold:
First. The Supreme Court of that State has held that this
"company was doing business in the State in the sense of
that act." This construction of a State statute by the Supreme Court of the State, involving no question under the
laws or Constitution of the United States, is conclusive upon
us. We accept the construction of State statutes by the
State courts, although we may doubt the correctness of such
construction. We accept and adopt it, although we may
have already accepted and adopted a different construction
of a similar statute of another State, in deference to the Supreme Court of that State.*
Second. We are of the opinion that the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania was right in its construction of the statute
of 1868.
Construing together the seventh and eighth sections of
the act, it is enacted "that every railroad company, steamboat company, &c., now or hereafter doing business in this
State, and upon whose works freight may be transported,
whether by such company or by individuals," &c., shall be
liable to the tax in question.
It can scarcely be doubted that this company is doing
business in the State of Pennsylvania when it receives gross
earnings to an amount exceeding nine millions per annum
for transportation over its road, of which forty-two miles lie
within that State. The statute does not limit the amount of
business done, or the length of road upon which it is done,
as fixing its liability to taxation. The legal effect of the appellant's argument would be the same if four hundred and
Randall v. Brigham, 7 Wallace, 530; Williams v. Kirtland, 13 Id. 306;
Tioga Railroad Co. v. Blossburg Rairoad Co., 20 Id. 137.
32
7oL. xxI.

498

ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

thirteen miles of its road were within the limits of the State
of Pennsylvania and forty-two miles only Were in the State
of New York, instead of lying as it now does.
We see no such difficulty in the machinery for the collection of the tax as should make us doubt the intention of the
legislature. That, in fact, the State at once proceeded to,
and has constantly persisted in, its exercise, affords strong
evidence of its intention and of its understanding of its
effect.
If it intended to impose the tax, and had the power to do
it, the extent and the proportion to which it is carried belongs to the judgment and discretion of the State only. It
is beyond our examination.*
That it has the power to enforce the tax by direct action
upon that part of the road within its territory would seem
to be reasonably certain, and that it would attempt to lay
taxation to an extravagant or oppressive extent has not yet
appeared. That it has exercised less than the full extent
of its power, and has apportioned the tax according to the
length of the road within the State, is not a just subject of
complaint by the company.
The second objection is that the act of 1868 impairs the
obligation of the State not to impose such a tax upon the
Erie company.
It has been held many times in this court that a State
may make a valid contract that a corporation or its property
within its territory shall be exempt from taxation, or shall
be subject to a limited and specified taxation.t
The court has, however, in the most emphatic terms, and
* State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wallace, 296; The Delaware

Railroad Tax, 18 Id. 206.

t lNew Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164; Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court, 3
Howard, 133; Achison v. Huddleson, 12 Id. 293; Bank v. Knoop, 16 Id.
369; Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 Id. 331; Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436; 3NIcGee
v. Mathis, 4 Wallace, 143; Van Hoffman v. City of Quiney, lb. 535; Home

of the Friendless v. Rouse, 8 Id. 430; Washington University v. Rouse, Ib.
439; Wilmington Railroad v. Reid, 13 Id. 264; Tomlinson v. Branch, 15
Id. 460; Humphrey v. Pegues, 16 Id. 244.

Oct. 1874.] ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY V. PENI SYLVANIA.

499

Opinion of the court.

on every occasion, declared that the language in which the
surrender is made must be clear and unmistakable. The
covenant or enactment must distinctly express that there
shall be no other or further liability to taxation. A State
cannot strip itself of this most essential power by doubtful
words. It cannot, by ambiguous language, be deprived of
this highest attribute of sovereignty. This principle is distinctly laid down in each of the cases referred to. It has
never been departed from.
Tested by this rule, the contention of the appellant must
fail.
On the occasion of the first act referred to, to wit, in 1841,
by which the Erie Railroad Company was permitted to take
lands and lay its tracks and run its cars through the county
of Susquehanna, nothing was said in the act upon the subjest of taxation. The value created or transferred to that
county remained there like any other property of a corporation, and, like all other property, subject to the operation of
the laws of the State.
The act of 1846, authorizing the building of the road
through the county of Pike, contained two provisions in
reference to taxation. But we find in neither any intimation of an intention to limit or to surrender the taxing power
of the State. Two subjects of taxation are specified, and
reports and details are required, from which it may be inferred that the legislature looked to other taxation thereafter. They taxed as far as was then thought proper, leaving
the future to provide for the future. There is no suggestion of a release of any power or surrender of any authority
possessed by the State. None of the cases decided by this
court would justify a decision that, by the language we are
considering, the general power of taxation was agreed to be
surrendered by the State.
Nor do we find in New York and Erie Railway v. Sabin,
cited by the appellant, anything in hostility to this construction. It was there held merely, as the State had imposed a
tax upon the stock of the company to the extent of the cost
of construction in that State," that implied an exemption

LITTLE V. ALEXANDER.

[Sup. Ct.

General statement of the case.

from the ordinary taxation for State and county purposes.
It was said that to hold otherwise would be to subject the
same property to double taxation, which it cannot be supposed was intended. The remarks of Mr. Justice Woodward, in Erie Railway v. Commonwealth,* give a full explanation of the meaning of the language employed in that case.
In Easlon Bank v. The Gommonwealth,t it was held that the
designation in the charter of the bank of the payment of
taxes on its dividends at a fixed rate was a mere designation
of a tax then to be paid, and did not affect the power to impose other or greater taxes. The decisions of the State
courts of Pennsylvania are quite in harmony with our own
on this subject.
None of the objections are well taken, and the judgment
must be
AFFIRMED.

LITTLE, ASSIGNEE, V. ALEXANDER.
1. When the issue to be decided is whether a judgment against an insolvent was obtained with a view to give a preference, the intendion of the
bankrupt is the turning-point of the case, and all the circumstances
which go to show such intent should be considered.
2. Hence, when an ordinance of a State gave a preference as to time of trial
in the courts in suits on debts contracted after a certain date, and the
insolvent debtor gave his son and niece new notes for an old debt, so as
to enable them to procure judgments before his other creditors, the fact
that the ordinance was void does not repel the inference of intent to
give and obtain a preference, and when a judgment was so outained
which gave priority of lien it will to that extent be null and void.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Western District
of North Carolina.
Little, as assignee in bankruptcy of J. R. Alexander, the
father, filed a bill against T. L. Alexander, the son, to have
* 66 Pennsylvania State, 84.
t 10 Id. 451, cited and approved in 18 Wal'ace, 227.

