THE M OHLER.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

them to liability in this particular. Profits actually realized
are usually, in a case like this, the measure of unliquidated
damages. Circumstances may, however, arise which would
justify the addition of interest in order to give complete indemnity for losses sustained by wilful infringements.
DECREE REVERSED

to the extent hereinbefore indicated,

and the cause REMANDED, with instructions to take a new
account of profits and proceed
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS OPINION.

THE MOHLER.
1. Where, in a high or uncertain state of the wind, a vessel is approaching
a part of the river in which there are obstructions to the navigationas, ex. gr., the piers of a bridge crossing it-between which piers she
cannot, if the wind is high or squally, pass without danger of being
driven on one of them, it is her duty to lie by till the wind has gone
down, and she can pass in safety.
2. The officers of steamers plying the Western waters must be held to the
full measure of responsibility in navigating streams where bridges are
built across them.
APPEAL in admiralty from a decree of the Circuit Court
for the Eastern District of Wisconsin.
The Home Insurance Company of New York was the insurer of a cargo of wheat shipped on a barge appurtenant
to the steamer Mohler, on the 12th of May, 1866, at Mankato, on the Minnesota River, in the State of Minnesotathe river then being high-and destined to St. Paul, on the
Mississippi. The bill of lading contained the usual exception of "the dangers of navigation." The barge was wrecked
by collision with one of the piers of a bridge just above the
city of St. Paul, at about eight o'clock, on the evening of
the day on which the voyage began, and was totally lost.*
* The bridge and piers are the same referred to, supra, p. 1, in The Lady
T'ike.

Oct 1.874.]

THE MOHLER.
Statement of the case.

The insurance company paid the loss, and filed its libel in
the District Court to recover the amount under its right of
subrogation.
The answer set up that the accident occurred through a
sudden and unexpected gust of wind which overtook the
boat as she was about passing through the piers, and that
she was, therefore, not answerable for the consequences of
the collision.
The case was heard on the testimony introduced by the
respondents, the libellant having called no witnesses.
The weather, in the morning of the day when the boat set
off, was calm; but during the afternoon became rough and
windy, so much so that the boat laid up at Mendota, near
the mouth of the Minnesota River, and about four miles
above the piers, on account of the wind. After sundownthat is to say, a few minutes after seven o'clock-she proceeded on her voyage, the wind having "abated," as the
master said, or, according to the testimony of the mate,
having "calmed down some." At eight the barge struck
the pier, killing a -man on board and sinking the barge.
The night was starlight, and the piers had signal lights upon
them.
On the trial there was great discrepancy between the testimony of the master and that of the mate, as to the condition
of the wind after the boat left Mendota. The master swore
that there was no wind to affect the boat until the Julia, an
ascending boat, got near the Mohler; while the mate said
that the wind rose after the Mohler left Mendota, and blew
hard by spells all the way down. They also disagreed as
to the point where the Julia was met, the master saying
that it was not more than a quarter of a mile above the
piers, while the mate fixed the distance at one and a half
miles.
From Mendota down to within a short distance of these
piers, high bluffs, it should be stated, line the sides of the
river, and prevent boats feeling or being affected by the
wind, but that just before reaching the piers the bluffs recede from the river and open so as not to operate as a pro-

232

THE MOHLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the steamer.

tection from the wind; and that on reaching this point wind
will be felt, and sometimes very strongly, though before arriving at this point it would not be. On coming near to
these parts there was no doubt that the wind had not gone
down, and that it was from a dangerous quarter, the south;
the river here running east and a south wind tending to
drive a boat on a pier.
"When we came within about half a mile of the piers,"
said the pilot, "gusts came at times hard enough to split the
posts of fences; but they lulled. Then a heavy gale struck
us four or five lengths above the piers. We could not have
then changed our course or made a landing. Everything
possible to prevent a collision was done; but the collision
was inevitable."
An expert witness-of the respondent's, of course-on
cross-examination testified that within a quarter of a mile,
or even less, the steamer and her tow could have rounded
to and landed, even in a hard wind from the south; and that
not to do so in such a case would be bad seamanship.
Other witnesses testified that these piers increase the
danger of the navigation; that vessels were very liable to
be driven against such obstructions; that extraordinary precaution was necessary in going through them, and then, that
"a man is liable to be beat at it."
Both the District and the Circuit Court held that the officers of the steamer were guilty of a wrongful act in attempting to pass between the piers of the bridge in the state of
the weather at the time; and condemned the steamer. From
this condemnation her owners appealed.
Mr. J. W. Cary,for the appellants, argued that it was plain
from the fact that the vessels had put into Mendota for the
exact purpose of not running while there was high wind,
that all evidences of high wind must have disappeared before the vessels came out; that no wind did, in fact, disturb
them until they got to where the bluffs recede; that there,
from the physical configuration of the land, occasional gusts
of wind might come unexpectedly through the gaps, as

Oct. 1874.]

Tim M OHLER.
Opinion of the court.

through a funnel, though no high wind were stirring; that
such was the case here; and that where a sudden gust did
come through such a place, it was a true peril of navigation.
Mr.N. . .Emmons, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is insisted that the loss occurred through a peril of
navigation, which was one of the exceptions contained in
the bill of lading, and that, therefore, the carrier was excused from a delivery of the wheat. The burden of proof
lies on the carrier, and nothing short of clear proof, leaving
no easonable doubt for controversy, should be permitted
to discharge him from duties which the law has annexed
to his employment. This burden has been assumed by the
carrier, and the case was heard on the testimony introduced
by the respondents, the libellant having called no witnesses.
It may be true, as the answer implies, that the boat would
have safely made the passage if the wind had not driven her
against the pier, but this does not solve the difficulty. The
inquiry is whether the passage should have been undertaken
at all in the general bent of the weather on that day. If
the carrier had sufficient warning to put him on his guard,
and chose to neglect it and take the chances of a venture
when common prudence told him there was danger in it, he
cannot escape on the ground that the particular peril which
finally overcame him was a sudden gust of wind. The general doctrine that a carrier is not answerable for goods lost
by tempest has no application to such a case.
It is undeniable that the weather was boisterous during
the afterpart of the day on which the loss occurred, and that
the boat laid up at Mendota, on account of the wind. It
had at best only "abated" or "calmed down" when she
left Mendota and proceeded on her voyage. There is a singular discrepancy in the testimony of the master and the
mate as to the condition of the wind after the departure
from Mendota, and as to where it was that the wind begau

THE MOHiaER.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

to blow hard; the master swearing that there was no great
wind until the boat met the Julia, and that this was but a
quarter of a mile above the piers; the mate giving a very
different account as to both facts. Both these officers had
equal opportunities of judging, and there is nothing in the
record affecting the credibility of either. In such a case
the defence fails, for the respondents have no right to ask
the court to prefer the testimony of one witness over the
other when there is nothing in the record to show that one
is more reliable than the other.
Apart from this there is enough in the.evidence to establish satisfactorily that the weather had not cleared, nor the
direction of the wind changed, and that the boat should
either not have left her moorings at Mendota, or have landed
at some proper point before the piers were reached. It
won't do to say that the wind had moderated, and that the
officers of the boat thought they could get through without
trouble. They had no right to think so, for on such a day
squalls were likely to arise at any moment, and it was bad
seamanship, being forewarned, to attempt to go through
such a dangerous place in the river. It is difficult at all
times to make the passage of these piers, and especially so
in sudden gusts of wind blowing from the south, which was
the case on that day. And this difficulty is enhanced in the
night-time, and when the current, by reason of high water,
is increased.
Any prudent officer would have stopped until the weather
became calm. At any rate it was the duty of the master of
the boat in question to have done so, and, failing in this
duty, he is chargeable with the consequences of his negligence, which, in this case, were lamentable, for not only
was the property in his charge destroyed, but a human life
lost. The officers of steamers plying the Western waters
must be held to the full measure of responsibility in navigating streams where bridges are built across them. These
bridges, supported by piers, of necessity increase the dangers of navigation, and river-men, instead of recognizing
them as lawful structures built in the interests of commerce,

Oct. 1874.]

EX PARTE SAWYER.
Syllabus.

seem to regard them as obstructions to it, and apparently
act on the belief that frequent accidents will cause their removal. There is no foundation for this belief. Instead of
the present bridges being abandoned, more will be constructed. The changed condition of the country, produced
by the building of railroads, has caused the great inland"
waters to be spanned by bridges. These'bridges are, to a
certain extent, impediments in the way of navigation, but
railways arn highways of commerce as well as rivers, and
would fail of accomplishing one of the main objects for
which they were created-the rapid transit of persons and
property-if rivers could not be bridged. It is the interest
as well as the duty of all persons engaged in business on the
water routes of transportation to conform to this necessity
of commerce. If they do this and recognize railroad bridges
as an accomplished fact in the history of the country, there
will be less loss of life and property, and fewer complaints
of the difficulties of navigation at the places where these
bridges are built. If they pursue a different and contrary
course, it rests with the courts of the country, in every
proper case, to remind them of their legal responsibility.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

EX PARTE SAWYER.
A decree of the Circuit Court, affirming, on appeal, a decree of the District
Court, which had charged a respondent in admiralty with the payment
of a sum of money specified, and decreeing that the appellee in the Circuit Court should recover it; and decreeing further, that unless an appeal should be taken from the said decree of the Circuit Court to the
Supreme Court within the time limited by law, a summary judgment
should be entered therefor against the stipulators on their stipulations
given on appeal from the District Court, is, as to the stipulators, a provisional decree only, and one which on appeal to the Supreme Court
becomes inoperative.
Accordingly, though such an appeal be taken from the decree of the Circuit
Court, and the decree of that court be affirmed, and the cause remahded

