MOORE V. MISSISSIPPI.

[Sup. Ut.

Statement of the case.

MOORE V. Mississippi.
1. Where a case is brought here from the highest court of the State under
the assumption that it is within section 709 of the Revised Statutes, if the
record shows upon its face that a Federal question was not necessarily
involved, and does not show that one was raised, this court will not go
outside of it-to the opinion or elsewhere-to ascertain whether one was
in fact decided.
2. Hence, when a record from such a court disclosed the fact that a person
had been indicted on an indictment which contained certain counts
charging him with selling lottery tickets, and certain others charging him with keeping a gaming table, both in violation of statute, and
that he pleaded in bar to the whole indictment, a statute of earlier date
which went to justify his issuing of the lottery tickets, but not to justify
his keeping of a gaming table, and the plea, on demurrer, was held bad,
and on his then pleading Not Guilty, he was found guilty, generally,
and a proper judgment entered against him; this court held-there having been no bill of exception taken at the trial and no error specifically
stated in the record-that it would not look out of the record-into
the opinion of the court (made part of the transcript) or elsewhere-to
see that the defendant had set up that the statute under which he was
indicted and convicted violated the obligation, of a contract made by
the prior one, which he had set up in bar to the whole indictment. The
record showing that the plea had answered but part of the indictment,
the judgment had a proper base for it, and no other matter being properly alleged for error it was rightly to be affirmed.

to the Supreme Court of Mississippi.
The present constitution of Mississippi, ratified in 1869,
ordains,
ERROR

"That the legislature shall not authorize any lottery; nor

shall any lottery heretofore authorized, be permitted to be drawn,
or tickets therein to be sold."
And to give effect to this provision, an act of the legisla.
ture of the State, passed in 1870, enacted,
"That every lottery and gift enterprise, of whatever name
or description, regardless of the authorityof law heretofore creating
the same, be, and the same is hereby prohibited, and declared a
nuisance and misdemeanor, against the public policy of the State,
and that whoever is concerned.., in any way or manner whatsoever therein ...

shall upon conviction be fined," &c.

Oct. 1874.]

MOORE

V.

MISSISSIPPI

Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

This statute being on the statute-book, Moore was indicted in one of the Circuit Courts of the State. The indictment charged him in five counts with selling lottery
tickets, and in two with keeping a gaming table. He pleaded in
bar to the whole indictment "that in issuing the ticket or
certificate mentioned and specified in the indictment, he was
acting as the agent of the Mississippi Agricultural, Educational, and Manufacturing Aid Society, a body politic and
corporate, which was duly incorporated by an act of the legislature of the State of Mississippi, approved February 16th,
1867, and that prior to the adoption of the present constitution of the State said Mississippi Agricultural, Educational,
and Manufacturing Aid Society fully complied with 'all the
provisions of said act of incorporation."
The charge of issuing tickets or certificates was made, as
already said, only in five out of the seven counts in the indictment. The State demurred to the plea, because, 1, it
showed no valid bar to the prosecution, and 2, it amounted
to the general issue and nothing more. The court sustained
the demurrer.
Moore then pleaded not guilty andwent to trial. The
jury returned a verdict of guilty, generally, and the proper
judgment was entered thereon. No bill of exceptions was
taken at the trial, and no error was specifically stated on the
record.
The case was taken to the Supreme Court of the State by
writ of error, and the judgment of the court below was
there affirmed. The record proper did not show what errors
were assigned in the Supreme Court. Appended to the
transcript of the record, or as a part of it, was the opinion
of the Supreme Court of the State, preceding the judgment
now brought here on error.
The present writ of error was prosecuted under section
709 of the Revised Statutes,* to obtain a re-examination of
the case.
Mr. P. Phillips, for the plaintiff in error, setting out its lan* See the section, in the Appendix.

MOORE V.

MISSISSIPPI.

[Sup. CiL

-Opinion of the court.

guage, and going much into its details, insisted that the act
of incorporation under the authority of which Moore acted
in the sale of the lottery ticket, was a contract between the
corporators and the State, which was protected by that clause
of the Constitution of the United States which prohibits a
State from passing any law impairing the obligation of contracts; that as appeared by the opinion of the Supreme Court
in the case appended to the transcript of the record (and to
which, since the decision in Murdock v. MUemphis,* reference
might be made as constituting a part of it), it was plain that
there had been drawn in question the validity of the statute
of the State on the ground of its being repugnant to this
clause of the Constitution of the United States, and that the
decision of the highest court of the State had been in favor
of such its validity. The jurisdiction of this court to reexamine and reverse, he argued was, therefore, clear under
section 709 of the Revised Statutes (identical with the act
of February 5th, 1867, itself a substitute for the twenty-fifth
section of the Judiciary Act), and the error of the Circuit
Court in sustaining the demurrer to the plea was equally
plain, on the case as existing and admitted.
Messrs. T. W. Bartley and G. F. Edmonds, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The only error relied upon in the argument here relates
to the action of the Circuit Court of the State in sustaining
the demurrer to the plea.
We are not required to re-examine the judgment of a
State court simply because a Federal question may have
been decided. To give us jurisdiction it must appear that
such a question "was necessarily involved in the decision."t
The old rule, established by early cases, restricted our inquiries as to the existence and decision of the question "to
the face of the record." Previous to the act of 1867,1 it was
* 20 Wallace, 633.

"t Armstrong v. Treasurer of Athens Co., 16 Peters, 282.
Revised
R
Statutes, 709.

Oct. 1874.]

MOORE V. MISSISSIPPI.
Opinion of the court.

uniformly held, except as to the State of Louisiana, where a
peculiar practice prevails, that we would not look into the
opinions of the courts to ascertain what had been decided.*
Since that act, however, in Murdock v. Memphis,t we intimated that we might, under some circumstances, examine
those opinions, when properly authenticated, as far as might
be useful for the purpose of ascertaining that fact, but at the
same time were careful to say that, "after all, the record of
the case, its pleadings, bills of exceptions, judgments, evidence, in short, its record, whether it be a case in law or
equity, must be the chief foundation of inquiry; and while
we are not prepared to fix any absolute limit to the sources
of inquiry under the new act, we feel quite sure it was not
intended to open the scope of it to any loose range of investigation." We are not now called upon to fix this limit.
It is sufficient for all the purposes of this case to hold as we
do, that if the record shows upon its face that a Federal
question was not necessarily involved and does not show
that one was raised, we will not go outside of it, to the
opinion or elsewhere, to ascertain whether one was in fact
decided.
In this case the record shows clearly upon its face that the
decision of such a question was not required. The indictment was for selling lottery tickets and keeping a gaming
table. The plea, although to the whole indictment, met
only part of it. The charge of keeping a gaming table was
left entirely unanswered.
A plea to be good as a bar to the whole indictment must
meet the whole case. If it does not it will be held bad upon
demurrer.
The demurrer to this plea was, therefore, properly sustained upon this ground. Such being the case it is a matter
of no consequence to us that the court may have gone further
and decided a Federal question. The decision of such a
* Gibson v. Chouteau, 8 Wallace, 817; Rector v. Ashley, 6 Id. 142; Wil.
liams v. Norris, 12 Wheaton, 117; Railroad Company v. Marshall, 12 Howard, 165; Cousin v. Blanc, 19 Id. 202.
t 20 Wallace, 633.

WOOD v. BAILEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

question was not necessarily involved in the determination
of the cause.
It follows that this writ of error must be
DISMISSED.

WOOD V.

BAILEY, ASSIGNEE.

1. Under the eighth section of the Bankrupt Act, which enacts that "no appeal shall be allowed in any case from the District to the Circuit Court unless
it is claimed and notice given thereof, . . . to the assignee . . . or to the defeated [sic] party in equity, within ten days after tla entry ofthe decree ordecision

appealedfrom," the omission to give the notice within the ten days specified is fatal to the appeal.
2. The word "defeated," in the above quotation, which, as to that word, follows both the Statutes at Large and the Revised Statutes, should be construed as meaning the "opposite," " adverse," or "s u ccessf ul" party.
APPEAL from an order of the Circuit Court for the Southern District of Alabama, dismissing an appeal which one
Wood sought to prosecute from a decree of the District
Court sitting in bankruptcy.
Bailey, assignee in bankruptcy of a bankrupt, filed a bill
in chancery in the District Court against Wood, Whitfield,
and others, in regard to a mortgage held by Wood, and a
supposed vendor's lien claimed by the other parties, on lands
owned by the bankrupt and passing to the assignee by the
assignment in bankruptcy. The object of the bill was to contest the validity of these liens, and to have a sale of the land
discharged of the claims asserted by the defendants. A subpcnna issued on the bill and was served on all the defendants.
They appeared, demurred, and answered in regular course
of chancery procedure. Testimony was taken and a final
decree rendered in the District Court declaring all the claims
of the defendants void as liens on the land. This decree was
filed in the court on the 21st day of June, 1871, though dated
on the first day of that month. The record showed notices
of appeal addressed to the clerk of the District Court by the
counsel for Wood and by the counsel for Whitfield, both of

