Oct. 1874.]

HILL V. MENDENHALL.
Statement of the case.

the legal principles we have considered, nor in their application to the case in hand. The law is no respecter of persons.
DECREE REVERSED,

and the case remanded, with direc-

tions to
DISMISS THE BILL.

21w*453
I-ed 616
57f 971]

HILL V. MENDENHALL.
1. Where suit is brought on a record which shows that service was not made
on the defendant, but which shows also that an appearance was entered
for him by an attorney of the court, it is not allowable, under a plea
of nul tiel record only, to prove that the attorney had no authority to
appear.
2. Presumptively, an attorney of a court of record, who appears for a party,
has authority to appear for him; and though the party for whom he has
appeared, when sued on a record in which judgment has been entered
against him on such attorney's appearance, may prove that the attorney
had no authority to appear, yet he can do this only on a special plea, or
on such plea as under systems which do not follow the common-law
system of pleading, is the equivalent of such plea.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
North Carolina.
Hill sued Mendenhall in the court below upon a judgment in one of the courts of record in the State of Minnesota. The plea was nul iel record alone. Upon the trial of
the issue made by this plea, the plaintiff introduced in evidence an exemplification of the record sued upon. This
record showed upon its face that the defendant was, at the
time that action was commenced, a resident of the State of
North Carolina; that the summons issued had been returned
not served; that thereupon, by order of the court, service
was made by publication, and that after such publication the
defendant appeared by attorney, filed an answer verified by
an agent, and voluntarily submitted himself to the jurisdiction of the court.
The bill of exceptions showed that, after introducing the

HILL n. MENDENHALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

record, the plaintiff called a witness who gave evidence tending to prove that the party who verified the answer was at
the time an agent of the defendant for the transaction of
his business in Minnesota. The defendant then testified in
his own behalf and in substance denied the agency.
The Circuit Court found that there was such a record as
was sued upon, but because it did not appear in the exemplification or from the evidence that the summons had been
served upon the defendant, gave judgment in this action
in his favor. This rulinig of the Circuit Court was now assigned for error.
Messrs. P. Phillips and W. A. Graham, for the plaintiff in
error. No opposing counsel.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
It is true the record sued upon in this case does show that
defendant was not served with process, but it also shows
his voluntary appearance by an attorney. If this appearance was authorized, it is as effective for the purposes of
jurisdiction as an actual service of summons. When an
attorney of a court of record appears in an action for one
of the parties, his authority, in the absence of any proof to
the contrary, will be presumed. A record which shows such
an appearance will bind the party until it is proven that the
attorney acted without authority.
Since the cases of Thompson v. Whitman,* and Knowles v.
Gasliqht and Coke Company,t it may be considered as settled
in this court, that when a judgment rendered in one State
is sued upon in another, the defendant may contradict the
record to the extent of showing that in point of fact the
court rendering the judgment did not have jurisdiction of
his person. If such showing is made the actioi must fail,
because a judgment obtained under such circumstances has
no effect outside of the State in which it was rendered;
But if it appears on the face of the record that the court
* 18 Wallace, 457.

t 19 Id. 58.

Oct, 1874.]

V. MENDENHALL.
4HILL
Opinion of the court.

did have jurisdiction, extrinsic evidence to contradict it is
not admissible under- a plea of nul tiel record. The office
of pleading is to inform the court and the parties of the
facts in issue; the court, that it may declare the law, and the
parties, that they may know what to meet by their proof.
Nul tiel record puts in issue only the fact of the existence of
the record, and is met by the production of the record itself
valid upon its face, or an exemplification duly authenticated
under the act of Congress. A defence requiring evidence
to contradict the record must necessarily admit that the
record exists as a matter of fact, and seek relief by avoiding
its effect. It should, therefore, be formally pleaded, in order
that the facts upon which it is predicated may be admitted
or put in issue. Under the common-law system of pleading
this would be done by a special plea. The equivalent of
such a plea is required under any system. The precise form
in which the statement should be made will depend upon
the practice of the court in which it is to be used, but it
must be made in some form. Defects appearing on the face
of the record may be taken advantage of upon its production under a plea of nul tiel record, but those which require
extrinsic evidence to make them apparent must be formally
alleged before they can be proven. This we believe to be
in accordance with the practice of all courts in which such
defences have been allowed, and it is certainly the logical
deduction from the elementary pr inciples of pleading.* In
Knowles v. Gaslight and Coke Company, the issue was directly
made by an averment of jurisdiction in the complaint and a
denial in the answer, and in Thompson v. Whitman by plea
and replication.
It follows that, upon the pleadings in this case, judgment
should have been given for the plaintiff after proof of the
Bimeler v. Dawson, 4 Scammon, 538; Harrod v. Barretto, 2 Hall, 302;
Shumway v. Stillman, 6 Wendell, 447; Starbuck v. Murray, 6 Id. 148; Price
v. Hickok, 39 Vermont, 292; Judkins v. Union Mutual Fire Insurance Co.,
37 New Hampshire, 482; Holt v. Alloway, 2 Blackford, 108; Moulin v. Insurance Co., 4 Zabriskie, 222; Gilman v. Lewis, Ib. 248; Aldrich v. Kinney,
4 Connecticut, 380.

RAILROAD COMPANY

V. MARYLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

record, showing as it did jurisdiction of the defendant by
reason of his appearance by attorney. As both parties,
however, submitted evidence without objection upon the
question of the authority of the attorney so to appear, we
should have held them to a waiver of the proper pleadings
to present that issue if it appeared affirmatively that this
evidence had been considered and passed upon by the court
below. Such, however, is not the case. Judgment was
given for the defendant upon the sole ground that it did not
appear from the record or the evidence that summons had
been served. This was error if the defendant had iu fact
voluntarily appeared. The record upon its face furnished
evidence of such an appearance. The court did not find
that this evidence was not in accordance with the facts.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is, therefore, REVERSED,
and the cause remanded with instructions to award a venire
de novo, and permit such amendments to the pleadings as
may be necessary to present fairly for trial the real issues
between the parties.
REVERSED AND REMANDED.

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

MARYLAND.

1. A stipulation in the charter of a railroad company, that the company
shall pay to the State a bonus, or a portion of its earnings, is not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
2. Such a stipulation is different, in principle, from the imposition of a tax
on the movement or transportation of goods or persons from one State
to another. The latter is an interference with and a regulation of commerce between the States, and beyond the power of the State to impose;
the former is not.

3. The power of a State to construct railroads and other highways, and to
impose tolls, fare, or freight for transportation thereon, is unlimited

and uncontrolled. The disposition of the revenues thus derived is subject to its own discretion. But a State cannot impose a tax on the
movement of persons or property from one State to another.
v. State of Nevada (6 Wallace, 42), and Freight Tax
4. The cases of &7randall
Cases (16 Id. 282), cited and affirmed.

