Oct. 1874.]

BANK V. COLBY.
NATIONAL
4
Statement of the case.

were created and empowered to hear and determine legal
controversies, including all those of a maritime character,
wholly unrestricted by the prohibitions of the common-law
courts of the country from which they had emigrated; and
when in the progress of events they found it necessary and
proper to frame the Federal Constitution and saw fit to provide that the judicial power shall extend to "all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," it was to the admiralty
jurisdiction as it was known and understood in the States
to which they referred.
Proofs of the highest character are now exhibited that the
admiralty courts of the States did exercise jurisdiction over
contracts for repairs and supplieb furnished to domestic ships
as well as to foreign ships, and it follows, as it seems to me,
that the appellees in this case had a maritime lien upon the
steamer and that the same attaches to the proceeds in the
registry of the court below, and that the decree of the Circuit Court should be affirmed.
Mr. Justice FIELD also dissented.

NATIONAL BANK v. COLBY.
1. The property of a National bank organized under the act of Congress of'
June 3d, 1864, attached at the suit of an individual creditor, after thebank has become insolvent, cannot be subjected to sale for the paymentof his demand, against the claim for the property by a receiver of thebank subsequently appointed.
2. A suit against a National bank to enforce the collection of a demand is
abated by a decree of a District Court of the United States dissolving
the corporation and forfeiting its rights and franchises, rendered upon
an information against the bank filed by the Comptroller of the Currency.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Alabama; the case being
thus:
On the 15th of April, 1867, a treasury draft of the United
States was presented to the First National Bank of Selma,
voL. xxi.

39

NATIONAL BANK V.

COLBY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

a bank organized under the act of Congress of June 3d,
1864, entitled "An act to provide a National currency seenred by a pledge of United States bonds, and to provide fo"
the circulation and redemption thereof,"* the act commonly
known as the National Banking Act. Payment of the draft
was refused. On the morning of the following day, the
16th, the bank did not open for business; and during that
day possession was taken of the bank-meaning, of course,
by this term its place of business, its property, effects, books,
and papers-by the military authorities of the United States
under instructions from the Secretary of the Treasury. On
the 17th its president absconded. An examination had that
day into its affairs showed a deficiency in its cash account
of $200,000, and on the 80th of April, a receiver of its effects
was appointed by the Comptroller of the Currency. Subsequently, that is to say on the 28th of May, an information
was filed by the comptroller charging violation of its charter,
and a summons issued to the directors to appear; the day
of appearance (by a clerical error apparently) being put as
"the 13th day of this instant." On the 1st of June a decree was entered on non-appearance, pro eonfesso, in the
District Court of the United States forfeiting all the rights,
franchises, and privileges of the bank, and adjudging its
dissolution.
Whilst the bank was in possession of the military authorities, namely, on the 17th of April, 1867, one Colby sued out
an attachment in one of the State courts of Alabama, against
it upon an affidavit alleging that it was indebted to him in
the sum of $4800, and that it had moneys, property, or
effects liable to satisfy its debts which it fraudulently withheld. The attachment was levied the same day on its real
property, consisting of a dw6lling-house and grist-mill. On
the 22d of May following, a declaration was filed in the
case, in which the plaintiff alleged an indebtedness of the
batk to him in the amount stated on three certificates of
deposit.
13 Stat. at Large, 99.

Oct. 1874.]

IATIONAL BANK V. COLBY.
Argument in favor of the attachment

Nearly two years afterwards, in March, 1869, the attachment suit came on for trial. The receiver was then allowed,
without objection, to appear by counsel and make proof of
the facts above stated and produce his appointment as receiver, and the decree dissolving the bank and forfeiting its
rights, privileges, and franchises. And thereupon he moved
the court to dissolve the attachment and discharge the levy,
and that the suit abate. This motion was overruled. The
receiver then offered, without objection, the same evidence
to the jury, and requested the court to instruct them, among
other things, that if they believed the evidence, the suit
could not be maintained by the plaintiff, and that they must
find for the defendant.
No objection was taken to the accidental error as to return
day.
The court refused the instruction asked for, and the jury
gave a verdict for the plaintiff for the full amount claimed.
Judgment being rendered accordingly, the case was taken
to the Supreme Court of the State. That court said:
"The act of insolvency does not dissolve the liability to be
sued, nor the liability to be sued by attachment. The act of
Congress does not so declare, nor is it necessary for the purposes
of that statute so to infer it. By the practice of our courts, attachments are only abatable when they have been issued without affidavit or without bond, as required by law. These being
the only causes enumerated, others are excluded by their omission. And matter of abatement cannot be given in evidence on
an issue upon the merits, a default or a failure to plead."
The Supreme Court accordingly affirmed the judgment
of the inferior State court, and the case was now here for
review under section 709 of the Revised Statutes, the
modern substitute of the second section of the act of February 5th, 1867, repealing and replacing the old twenty-fifth
section of the Judiciary Act.
- Mr. Alexander While,in supportof thejudgment below, enlarged
upon and enforced the positions taken in the opinion of the
court below; he contended also that the. attachments having

NATIONAL BANK V.

COLBY.

ESup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

been in form regular, the receiver had no right to appear in
the way that he had done in the State court, and move the
discharge of the attachment and the abatement of the suit,
or to conduct the case at the trial. He adverted moreover
to the fact that the summons called on the directors to be in
court on the 13th of May, 1867, and that the decree of dissolution of the bank was entered upon non-appearance pro
confesso, on the 1st of June.

Messrs. P. Phillips and C. Case, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
Two questions are presented in this case for our determination: 1st, whether the property of a National bank organized under the act of Congress of June 3d, 1864,* attached
at the suit of an individual creditor, after the bank has become insolvent, can be subjected to sale for the payment of
his demand, against the claim for the property by a receiver
of the bank subsequently appointed; and 2d, whether a suit
against a National bank to enforce the collection of a demand is abated by a decree dissolving the corporation and
forfeiting its rights and franchises.
To the first question the act of Congress furnishes an
answer in the negative; to the second, the general law respecting corporations gives one in the affirmative.
The act of Congress prescribes the conditions upon which
National banks shall be created; the powers they shall possess; and the consequences of their failure to meet their
obligations. All persons dealing with these institutions can
only acquire and enforce rights against them under the limitations there designated.
The object of the act, as its title imports, was to create a
National currency secured by a pledge of the bonds of the
United States. And to that end it requires security in government bonds for all notes issued; and in case any bank
fails to redeem its notes on demand, it provides for their
payment on presentation at the treasury of the United States.
* 13 Stat. at Large, 99.

Oct. 1874.]

O1ATIONAL BANK V. COLBY.
Opinion of the court.

To make good any deficiency which may exist in the proceeds of the bonds to meet the amount expended in paying
the notes of a bank, the act declares that "the United States
shall have a first and paramount lien upon all the assets"
of the association.. Whatever disposition, therefore, may be
made of the property of an insolvent bank, the lien of the
United States thereon must exist until the government is
fully reimbursed.
As to the general creditors, the act evidently intends to
secure equality among them in the division of the proceeds
of the property of the bank. The fiftieth section provides
for the appointment of a receiver of an insolvent bank, who
shall take possession of its assets, collect its debts, and upon
the order of a court of record, sell its real and personal
property and pay over the money to the treasury of the
United States, subject to the order of the Comptroller of the
Currency; that the comptroller shall then advertise for creditors to present their claims against the association, and after
making provision for refunding to the United States any
deficiency in redeeming its notes, shall make a ratable dividend of the money on all claims proved to his satisfactioi
or adjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction.
The fifty-second section, further to secure this equality,
declares that all transfers by an insolvent bank of its property of every kind, and all payments of money made after
the commission of an act of insolvency, or in contemplation
thereof, with a view to prevent the application of its assets in
the manner prescribed by the act, or "with the view to the
preference of one creditor over another, except in the payment of its circulating notes, shall be utterly null and void."
There is in these provisions a clear manifestation of a design on the part of Congress: 1st, to secure the government
for the payment of the notes, not only by requiring in advance of their issue a deposit of bonds of the United States,
but by giving to the government a first lien for any deficiency
that may arise on all the assets subsequently acquired by
the insolvent bank; and, 2d, to secure the assets of the bank
for ratable distribution among its general creditors.

NATIONAL BANK V. COLBY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

This design would be defeated if a preference in the application of the assets could be obtained by adversary proceedings. The priority of the United States and the ratable
distribution among the general creditors, so studiously provided for in the act, would in that case be lost. As justly
observed by counsel, if preference was left to the race of
diligence, creditors living remote from the location of the
bank would always be distanced in the contest, and the
equality promised to them by the act would be a mere
mockery.
It is too late for counsel to question in this court the right
of the receiver to appear in the State court and move the
discharge of the attachment and the abatement of the suit,
or to contest the case at the trial. Whatever informality
may have existed in the proceeding, it was waived by the
silence of the parties. Objections in matters of form to
modes of procedure in the court below cannot be urged here
for the first time.
But, independently of this consideration, we are of opinion
that it was a proper proceeding on the part of the receiver
to apply to the court below to discharge the attachment, on
proof of the facts presented by him, and the production of
his appointment and the decree dissolving the association.
Invested with the rights of the bank to the possession of the
property by his appointment, it was his duty to take the
necessary steps to remove the levy. That levy was void as
against his claim to the property; and, in our judgment, it
was error for the court to refuse to discharge it on his application.
But, in addition to this, the suit had abated by the decree
of the District Court of the United States forfeiting the
rights, privileges, and franchises of the corporation, and adjudging its dissolution. The act of Congress provides for
such forfeiture whenever the directors tlhemselves violate,
or knowingly permit any officers, servants, or agents of the
association to violate any of the provisions of the act. The
information filed against the bank by the Comptroller of the
Currency disclosed several gross violations of the act by the

Oct. 1874.]

NATIONAL BANK V. COLBY.
Opinion of the court.

directors; and the justice and validity of the decree were
not questioned in the State court. With the forfeiture of
its rights, privileges, and franchises the corporation was
necessarily dissolved, as the decree adjudged. Its existence
as a legal entity was thereupon ended; it was then a defunct
institution, and judgment could no more be rendered against
it in a suit previously commenced than judgment could be
rendered against a dead man dying pendente lite.
This is the
rule with respect to all corporations whose chartered existence has come to an end, either by lapse of time or decree
of forfeiture, unless, by statute, pending suits be allowed to
proceed to judgment notwithstanding such dissolution. The
prolongation of the corporate life for this specific purpose
as much requires special legislative enactment as does the
original creation of the corporation. No such enactment is
found in the act of Congress authorizing the creation of
National banks and prescribing their powers, nor is there
any provision elsewhere that we are aware of which would
prevent the dissolution of a corporation from working the
abatement of a suit pending against it at the time.
"I cannot distinguish," says Story, in Greeley v. Smith,*
"between the case of a corporation and the case of a private
person dying pendente lite. In the latter case the suit is
abated at law, unless it is capable of being revived by the
enactment of some statute, as is the case as to suits pending
in the courts of the United States, when, if the right of
action survives, the personal representative of the deceased
party may appear and prosecute or defend the suit. No
such provision exists as to corporations, nor, indeed, could
exist without reviving the corporation pro hac vice, and,
therefore, any suit pending against it at its death abates by
mere operation of law."
Some criticism is made .upon the fact that
the decree of
dissolution was entered on the 1st of June, when the summons cited the directors before the court on a different day.
* 3 Story, 658; see also Farmers' and
aMechanics' Bank v. Settle, 8 Watts
& Sargeant, 207, and Mumma v. The Potomac Company, 8 Peters, 281.

616

JACKSON V. LUDELING.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

It is a sufficient answer to this criticism that no objection of
the kind was made to the decree in the court below, nor was
its validity questioned. The presumption is, in the absence
of such objection, that an answer existed which would have
been made had the objection been taken. The decree was
admitted in evidence, and the decision of the court was placed
on the ground that the provisions of the act of Congress did
not interfere with proceedings by attachment, in the State
court, nor affect the liability of an insolvent corporation to
be thus sued, and "that matter of abatement could not be
given in evidence on an issue upon the merits, a default,
or a failure to plead;" the court apparently considering the
abatement of the attachment, and not the abatement of the
suit, as the object sought by the production of the decree.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, AND THE CAUSE REMANDED,

with di-

rections to discharge the attachment levied on the property
of the bank.

JACKSON v. LUDELING.
1. When two or more persons have a common interest in a security, equity
will not allow one to appropriate it exclusively to himself, or to impair
its worth to the others. Community of interest involves mutual obligation. If, ex. gr., a corporation issue many bonds and give a mortgage
on all its estates to secure them, one holder of the bonds-admitting
that he has a right to make use of the mortgage to enforce the payment
of the bonds which he holds-has no right to employ it as an instrument
by which he may become the owner of the property mortgaged at the
lowest price at which it can be obtained, leaving the bonds held by his
associate holders unpaid. His duty, if he uses it at all, is to make it
productive of the most that can be obtained for all who are interested in
it, and if he seek to make a profit out of it at the expense of those whose
rights in it were the same as his own, he is guilty of fraud.
2. The managers and officers of a company where capital is contributed in
shares, are in a very legitimate sense trustees, alike for its stockholders
and its creditors, though they may not be trustees technically and in
form. They accordingly have no right to enter into or participate in
any combination, the object of which is to divest the company of its
property and obtain it for themselves at a sacrifice; they have no right

