Oct. 1674.]

WATSON V. BONDURANT.
Statement of the case.

It is hardly necessary to say that the question of the original liability of the city on the bonds sued upon is not open
here. Ifthe city had any defence to make to them, it should
have been made when suit was brought against it in the
State court.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

WATSON V. BONYURANT.
1. By the law'of Louisiana, as held by her courts, it.is indispensably necessary, in order to make a valid sale of land under a foreclosure of a mortgage, that in all parishes, except Jefferson and Orleans, there should be
an actual seizure of the land ; not perhaps an actual turning out of the
party in possession, but some taking possession of it by the sheriff more
than a taking possession constructively.
2. Under the arrangement, known in Louisiana as the "pact de non alienando," the mortgagee can proceed to enforce his mortgage directly
against the mortgagor, without reference to the vendee of the latter.
But the vendee has sufficient interest in the matter to sue to annul the
sale, if the forms of law have not been complied with by the mortgagee
of his vendor in making the sale.
8. Where a return in a record, purporting to be a sheriff's return to a fieri
facias, alleges that under a proceeding to foreclose a mortgage the
sheriff seized the mortgaged premises, but does not purport to be signed
by the sheriff, the return is traversable, and if the law requires an actual
seizure, it may be shown that none was made.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana.
Walter Bondurant brought this action against one Watson, in the court below, to recover possession of a lot of
land containing one hundred and sixty acres, in the parish
of Tensas, Louisiana.
The case was thus:
Daniel Bondurant, owning a large plantation in the said

parish of Tensas, died intestate, leaving three sons, Horace,
Albert, and John, and also a grandson, the plaintif, then an
infant, and coheir with them. In 1852 the sons sued for a
partition, and a decree of sale was ordered. A sale was made,

WATSON

V. BONDURANT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and the sons bid off the plantation for $150,000, of which
sum the plaintiff was entitled, as one heir of his grandfather, to a fourth, or $37,500. The sheriff, on the 4th day
of December, 1852, executed to the sons a deed, reserving a
special mortgage on the lands as security for the payment
to the plaintiff of his share of the purchase-money when he
should come of age, which would be in March, 1862. In
the act of sale, which was executed by the sheriff and the
purchasers, the latter bound themselves not to alienate, deteriorate, or incumber the property to the prejudice of the
mortgage, which covenant is called, in Louisiana law, the
"pact de von alienando," and dispenses with the necessity of
making any persons other than the mortgagors parties to a
judicial proceeding upon the mortgage. This mortgage was
duly recorded on the 6th of December, 1852. Regularly, it
should have been reinscribed within ten years from that
time. But it was not reinscribed until September, 1865;
the plaintiff alleging, by way of excuse, the existence of the
civil war, and that he was prevented by "vis major," from
reinscribing it.
Meantime, the sons divided the plantation between themselves, and the tract in question was set off to John Bondurant, who, in 1854, conveyed it to Watson, the defendant,
who had been in possession thereof ever since.
On the 30th of January, 1866, the plaintiff commenced an
action against his uncles in the District Oourt, parish of
Tensas, for the recovery of $37,500, the amount of his mortgage, and obtained a judgment against them, under which
the sheriff sold all the property mortgaged, including the
tract for which the present suit was brought. Under this
sale the plaintiff now claimed the land in controversy. The
judgment was rendered November 14th, 1867. Afierifacias
was issued, directed to the sheriff of the parish. This writ
was produced in evidence, and had attached thereto a statement, unsigned, purporting to be a return, as follows:
":Reccived the 9th December, 1867, and served this writ as
follows, to wit: I seized, on the 25th day of December, A.D.
1867, the following described property belonging to defendants,

Oct. 1874.]

WATSON V. BONDURANT.
Statement of the case.

to wit (describing the entire plantation). On the 28th day of
December, 1867, I advertised said property for sale at the courthouse door, in this parish, on Saturday, the 1st of February,
A.D. 1868, for cash; &c. I offered said property for sale, when
Walter Bondurant bid," &c.
The sheriff's deed to the plaintiff was also offered in evidence, which recited the same facts.
The defendant proved, and the fact is found by the court,
that there was no actual seizure of the property in dispute,
the sheriff of the parish of Tensas not being in the habit of
making actual seizures, and the only notice of seizure was
by posting upon the court-house door a notice of seizure to
the said Horace, Albert, and John Boudurant, as absentees,
and that the defendant had no knowledge of any proceeding
to divest his title until March, 1869, long after the sale.
Upon these facts the defendant requested the court below
to decide that a reinscription of the mortgage within ten
years was necessary to its validity, but the court held that
the period of the war of rebellion was to be deducted from
the period prescribed for the reinscription of mortgages.
The defendant also requested the court to decide1st. That it is essential to the validity of a sheriff's return
to a writ of execution that it should be signed by him or his
deputy, in order to validate an adjudication of sale.
2d. That in order to make valid a sale of tangible property in all the parishes of Louisiana, except Orleans and Jefferson, there must be an actual seizure by the sheriff on execution.
3d. That in order to divest the title of the defendant, notice of seizure, upon Bondurant at least, if not upon the defendant, was essential.
But the court ruled that inasmuch as the mortgage contained the pact de non alienando, the defendant was not to be
considered in possession against the plaintiff, and that.it did
not matter what irregularities were in the sheriff's proceedings in selling the property, as Watson could not avail himself of them.

WATSON V. BONDURANT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Judgment having been given accordingly for the plaintiff,
Watson brought the case here.
Messrs. G W. Pace and E. T. Merrick, for the plaintiff in
error; Mr. C. L. Walker, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Without adverting to the other questions raised by the
defendant, we are of opinion that the court erred in declining to allow the objection as to the want of seizure under
the execution. The law of Louisiana seems to us very clearly
to require an actual seizure in the country parishes. The
parishes of Orleans and Jefferson are an exception, and that
very exception makes the existence of the rule in other parishes more clear and distinct. The act of 1857 declares that
in the parishes of Jefferson and Orleans "the registry in the
mortgage office shall be deemed and considered as the seizure and possession by the sheriff of the property therein described, and it shall be unnecessary to appoint a keeper
thereof." This act is itself constructive of the force and
effect of the general law. That law (Code of Practice, Article 642) prescribes the form of the writ offierifacias,which
must command the sheriff to seize the property of the debtor.
Article 643 declares that "as soon as the sheriff has received
this writ he must execute it without delay by seizing the
property of the debtor." The code then goes on to direct
the sheriff as to further proceeding. He must give notice
to the debtor to appoint an appraiser, &c. Article 656 declares that "when the sheriff seizes houses or lands he must
take at the same time all the rents, issues, and revenue
which this property may yield." Article 657 says, if it be
land or a plantation which he has taken, unless the same be
leased or rented, it shall remain sequestered in his custody
until sale. " Consequently," says the law, "he may appoint
a keeper or an overseer to manage it, for whom he shall be
responsible." Article 659 declares that when the objects
seized consist of money, movables, or beasts, he shall put
them in a place of safety, &c. Article 690 declares that the

Oct. 1874.]

OWATSON V.

BO0NDURANT.

Opinion of the court.

adjudication thus made has, of itself alone, the effect of
transferring to the purchaser all the rights and claims which
the party in whose hands it was seized might have had to
the thing adjudged.
Other sections are equally suggestive on this point.
The courts of Louisiana hold the seizure to be essential, and
that a sale without it fails to transfer title to the purchaser.
In the case of Goubeau v. .New Orleans and Nashville Railroad Company,* it was held that in order to make a legal and
valid, seizure of tangible property from which the seizing
creditor may acquire a privilege in the thing seized, it is
necessary that the sheriff should take the object seized into
his possession; and the mere levying of an execution upon
property found in the hands of the debtor, or of a third
person, without showing that the sheriff took it into his
actual possession, at least when he levied the writ, is not
sufficient to confer any right on the creditor. This doctrine
is affirmed in Simpson v. Allain,t in _luker v. Bullardt Offut
v. lonquit,ยง Taylor v. Stone,l Gaines v. Merchants' Bank.
The cases here referred to are mostly cases of personal,
chattels, or securities. But the same doctrine has been held
in regard to lands. In the recent case of Corse v. Stafford,**
which was a petitory suit to recover a tract of land and plantation claimed by the plaintiff under a sheriff's sale, it was
held that the sale was void because no actual seizure had
been made. It appeared in that case, that the sheriff did
no more than go on the plantation, read the writ to the parties, and give them notice of seizure, without doing anything
else to indicate a seizure. The court said: "Under the
sheriff's sale, we think, the plaintiff did not acquire title,
because it was never taken into the possession of the sheriff,
and, therefore, that he cannot maintain his petitory action.
It has frequently been decided that a sheriff's sale, without
a valid seizure, confers no title."tt
1 2 Annual, 338.
t 7 Robinson, 504.
4 Id. 370.
Ib.
l1 910.
Ib. 785.
24 Louisiana Annual, 263.
"t 11 Annual, 761; 12 Id. 275; 19 Id. 58; 22 Id. 207; 23 Id. 512.
* 6 Robinson, 348.

WATSON

V. BONDURANT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The case of Corse v. Stafford, it is true, arose under an
order of seizure and sale. But the same rule was held by
the Supreme Court of Louisiana in 1856, in the case of Williams v. Clark,* with regard to sales under fieri facias. The
plaintiff in that case claimed the land in question under a
sheriff's sale made by virtue of afierifaciasissued on a judgment upon an attachment; and, whilst the judgment was
held void on account of a defective citation, and of the fact
that the attachment was set aside, the sale was also held
void, because " no valid seizure was made of the property
adjudicated." "The defendant," say the court, "at the date
of the constructive seizure, and ever since, has been in
actual possession of the property; no attempt was made to
dispossess him. The defendant cannot be held to a constructive notice of an invalid seizure. A purchaser at a
sheriff's sale, made without a previous seizure, acquires
nothing, at least against a third party in possession."
These are cases where the validity of the sale was assailed
in a collateral proceeding. Instances are still more numerous in which actions of nullity have been sustained on
the same ground.t
That the person in possession should be actually turned
out of possession, in order to constitute a valid seizure, is
not understood to be necessary. But, under the rulings of
the Supreme Court of Louisiana, it does seem to be necessary
that there should be some taking of possession more than a
mere constructive taking; perhaps a yielding to the sheriff's
demand, and a consent to hold under him, on the part of
the person in possession, is all that is required.
As this is a pure question of local law, we feel bound to
follow the decisions of the highest court of Louisiana on the
subject; and, according to those decisions, it 8eems clear
that there was no valid seizure in this case.
We think, therefore, that for the failure to make any
actual seizure of the land, the sale was void.
* 11 Louisiana Annual, 761.

t See, amongst others, cases before cited; and see Kilbourne v. Frellsen,
22 Annual, 207.

Oct. 1874.]

WATSON V. BONDURANT.
Opinion of the court.

In such a case as the present the importance of actual
seizure is particularly obvious. The defendant was no party
to the action brought on the mortgage. :e knew nothing
about it. Had his lot been seized by the sheriff, as it ought
to have been, his attention would have been called to it.
The seizure would have been notice. He could then have
protected himself.
The pact de non alienando relieved the plaintiff from the
necessity of making Watson a party to his action ; but it did
not relieve him from the necessity of pursuing the forms of
law in making a compulsory sale.
This very question arose in a recent case,* in which the
Supreme Courtof Louisiana say:
"We concur with the plaintiff, that the insertion in the
act of mortgage of the pact de non alienando does not invest
the mortgage creditor with the right to disregard the forms
of law in making the forced alienation of his debtor's property. .

.

. The advantage of this clause is to save the mort-

gage creditor the necessity of resorting to the delays of the
hypothecary action. He can proceed to enforce his mortgage directly against his mortgage debtor, without reference
to the transferee of that debtor. But still the transferee is
subrogated to his vendor's right by virtue of the purchase,
and has sufficient interest in the object of the contract of
mortgage to sue to annul the sale, if the forms of law have
not been complied with by the mortgage creditor of his
vendor in making the forced sale."

By the same reason, and according to the cases above
cited, he has the right in a collateral proceeding, to set up,
by way of defence, the failure to follow those forms.
It has been suggested that the defendant could not go behind the sheriff's return to the writ offierifacias. Had this
return been duly authenticated by the sheriff's signature, as
required by the code, perhaps there might have been plausibility in this objection; though under the Louisiana practice
it would be very doubtful. But the return was incomplete
* Villa Palma v. Abat and Generes, 21 Annual, 11.
VOL.

XI.

9

DUPASSEUR

V. ROCHEREAU.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

and presents no record evidence of the sheriff's acts. We
think the return under the circumstances was, at least, traversable, and that it was properly shown that no actual seizure
of the property in dispute was ever made by the sheriff.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and

A

DUPASsEUR

v.

VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

ROCHEREAU.

I. When, in a case in a State court, a right or immunity is set up under
and by virtue of a judgment of a court of the United States, and the decision is against such right or immunity, a case is presented for removal
and review by writ of error to the Supreme Court of the United States
under the act of February 6th, 1867.
2. In such a case, the Supreme Court will examine and inquire whether or
not due validity and effect have been accorded to the judgment of the
Federal court, and if they have not, and the right or immunity claimed
has been thereby lost, it will reverse the judgment of the State court.
3. Whether due validity and effect have or have not been accorded to the
judgment of the Federal court will depend on the circumstances of the
case. If jurisdiction of the case was acquired only by reason of the
citizenship of the parties, and the State law alone was administered,
then only such validity and effect can be claimed for the judgment as
would be due to a judgment of the State courts under like circumstances.
4. Judgment was rendered by the Circuit Court of the United States for
Louisiana on a vendor's privilege and mortgage, declaring it to be the
first lien and privilege on the land; and the marshal sold the property
clear of all prior liens; and the mortgagee purchased, and paid into
court for the benefit of subsequent liens, the surplus of his bid beyond
the amount of his own debt. This judgment and sale were set up by
way of defence to a suit brought in the State court by another mortgagee, who claimed -priority to the first mortgage, and who had not been
made a party to the suit in the Circuit Court. The State court held
that the plaintiff was not bound by the former judgment on the question
of priority, not being a party to the suit. The case was brought to the
Supreme Court of the United States by writ of error, and this court
held, that the State court did not refuse to accord due force and effect to
the judgment; that such a judgment in the State courts would not be
conclusive on the point in question, and the judgment of the Circuit
Court could not have any-greater force or effect than judgments in the
State courts.

