Oct. 1874.]

CASE OF BRODERICK'S WILL.
Syllabus.

the intent with which the new notes were given which must
determine the validity of the lien of the judgment, and the
unconstitutionality of the ordinance, if the parties believed
it would be enforced, can have no influence in repelling the
presumption of the intention to give and secure priority of
judgment, and by that means a preference.
It is said that this case comes within the principle decided
by this court in Wilson v. City Bank,* because in this case,
as in that, the judgment creditor had no defence and made
none. But no careful reader of that case can fail to see that
if the debtor there had done anything before suit which
would have secured the bank a judgment with priority of
lien, with intent to do so, that the judgment of this court
would have been different from what it was.
The Circuit Court in this case submitted the question of
fraudulent preference to a jury, but with the opinions of
that court in the case, as found in the record, the jury was
probably misled as to the law. At all events, in such issues
from chancery submitted to the jury their verdict is not
conclusive, and we think the intent to secure a preference
in this case by means of this judgment, both on the part of
the bankrupt and the judgment creditor, so clear, that we
feel bound to reverse the decree and to remand the case
with instructions to enter a decree in favor of plaintiff, that
the judgment of T. L. Alexander is void as against the
assignee, and is no lien on the property of the bankrupt in
the hands of his assignee.
DECREE REVERSED

AND THE CASE REMANDED.

CASE OF BRODERICK'S WILL.

1. A court of equity has not jurisdiction to avoid a will or to set aside the
probate thereof on the ground of fraud, mistake, or forgery; this being
within the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of probate.
* 17 Wallace, 473.

CASE OF BRODERICK'S WILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
2. Nor will a court of equity give relief by charging the executor of a will
or a legatee with a trust in favor of a third person, alleged to be defrauded by the forged or fraudulent will, where the court of probate
could afford relief by refusing probate of the will in whole or in part.
3. The same rule applies to devises of real estate, of which the courts of law
have exclusive jurisdiction, except in those States in which they are
subjected to probate jurisdiction.
4. Semble that where the courts of probate have not jurisdiction, or where
the period for its further exercise has expired and no Iaches are attributable to the injured party, courts of equity will, without disturbing the
operation of the will, interpose to give relief to parties injured by a
fraudulent or forged will against those who are in possession of the decedent's estate or its proceeds, malfide, or without consideration.
5. But such relief will not be granted to parties who are in laches, as where
from ignorance of the testator's death they made no effort to obtain relief until eight or nine years after the probate of his will.
6. Ignorance of a fraud committed, which is the ordinary excuse for delay,
does not apply in such a case, especially when it is alleged that the
circumstances of the fraud were publicly and generally known at the
domicile of the testator shortly after his death.
7. Whilst alterations in the jurisdiction of the State courts cannot affect the
equitable jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States, so long
as the equitable rights themselves remain, yet an enlargement of equitable rights may be administered by the Circuit Courts as well as by the
courts of the State.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of California.
This was a suit in equity brought by the alleged heirsat-law of David C. Broderick, late United States Senator
from California, to set aside the probate of his will, and
have the same declared a forgery, and to recover the said
Broderick's estate, much of which consisted of lands now
comprised in the thickly settled portions of the city of San
Francisco.
The complainants were John Kieley and Mary, his wife,
George Wilson and Ann, his wife, and Ellen Lynch, all
residents of Sidney, in New South Wales, and subjects of
Great Britain and Ireland. They alleged that Mary Kieley,
Ann Wilson, and Ellen Lynch were, at the dbath of Brodcrick, his next of kin and only heirs-at-law, being daughters
of Catharine Broderick, sister of Thomas Broderick, the
father of the said David.

Oef. 1874.]

CASE OF BRODERICK'S WILL.

Statement of the case.

There were several hundred defendants, who were in possession of and claiming as owners the property in question.
John A. McGlynn, one of the executors who propounded
the will and procured its probate, was also one of the defendants.
The bill was filed on the 16th of December, 1869, and
stated that Broderick died oil the 16th of September, 1859,
intestate, being at the time a citizen of the United States
and a resident of San Francisco, in California, seized and
possessed of real and personal property in said State. Then,
after stating the relationship and status of the complainants, the bill proceeded to allege that at the time of his
death, Broderick was seized of the real estate set out in
the schedule annexed to the bill, and was possessed of personal property to the amount of $20,500, also set forth in a
schedule.
It then alleged that on the 20th day of February, 1869,
the defendant McGlynn, on behalf of himself and one A. J.
Butler, presented to the Probate Court of San Francisco a
certain paper writing (a copy of which was annexed) which
they falsely pretended was the last will and testament of the
said Broderick, in which the said McG]ynn, Butler, and one
George Wilkes were named as executors, and, at the same
time, presented their petition in writing, whereby they
prayed the court to admit the said will to probate, and issue
to them letters testamentary, knowing, at the time, that the
said paper was a forgery. And the bill charged the fact to
be that it was a forgery, and not Broderick's will; that it
was forged about the 1st of January, 1860, after his death,
for the purpose of defrauding his legal heirs, and that it was
written by one Alfred Phillips, and that the name of Broderick was signed thereto by one Moses Flanagan. The bill
then proceeded to state as follows:
"That the said Butler, well knowing that the said paper was
a forgery, caused it to be presented as aforesaid, as the genuine,
true, and valid will of the said Broderick, and caused a commission to issue under the seal of the said Probate Court, to a commissioner of the State of California residing in New York City,

CASE OF BIODERIcK'S WILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

to take the testimony, reduce to writing, and return it to the
said Probate Court, of John J. Hoff and Alfred A. Phillips,
whose names appear as subscribing witnesses to said paper;
and their testimony was so taken and returned, to the effect
and purport that the name of the said Broderick signed to said
instrument was the genuine signature of the said Broderick,
and that he did sign. seal, publish, and declare the said instrument to be his last will and testament, in the presence of the
said witnesses; and that they did sign the same, as witnesses,
at his request, in his presence and in the presence of each other;
and the said Butler did, also, procure and present to said court
the testimony of certain experts in handwriting, who testified
to said court that, in their opiiion, the name of Broderick, subscribed to the said paper, was in the genuine handwriting of
the said Broderiek; he, the said Butler, well knowing that the
same was not the genuine handwriting of said Broderick, and
the same was not in truth and fact the genuine handwriting of
said Broderick; and by means of such false testimony (your
orators not having any notice in fact of said proceedings, and
no one appearing in their behalf) they did obtain the order and
judgment of the said court admitting the said will to probate,
as the genuine last will and testament of the said Broderick,
and granting letters testamentary to Butler (now deceased) and
IcGlynn, as executors of said last will and testament, and they
proceeded to act as such executors, and allowed and procured to
be approved by the probate judge claims against the said estate
to the amount of $80,000.
"And afterward the said Butler and MeGlynn caused application to be made to said Probate Court for, and obtained, an
order of sale of the estate of the said Broderick, deceased, under
which they sold the whole of the said estate. That at the time
of said sale, which took place in the city and county of San
Francisco, it was a matter of public and general notoriety that
the said pretended last will and testament of said Broderick,
under and by virtue whereof all said probate proceedings were
taken and said property sold, was not the will of said Broderick,
but was a forged and simulated paper, and all of those who purchased at the said sale, and the defendants and those through
whom they deraign title subsequent to the said sale, purchased
and acquired whatever interest they have or had with full notice of the frauds hereinbefore alleged."

Oct. 1874.]

CASE Or BRODERICK'S WILL.

Statement of the case.

It appeared by a subsequent statement that the will was
admitted to probate on the 8th of October, 1860, and that
the sale referred to took place November 7th, 1861.
The bill then alleged that the complainants had no knowledge or information of Broderick's death, nor of the forgery
of the will, nor of its presentation for probate, nor of the
probate or order of sale, nor of any of the proceedings, until
the last day of December, 1866, within three years of filing
the bill; and that since that time they had been diligently
endeavoring to discover the facts and the evidence relating
thereto.
The bill charged that the defendants claimed as owners or
were in possession of some portion of Broderick's estate, deriving their only title or claim thereto by or under the probate sales and conveyances as-made by the said pretended
executors by virtue thereof; that Butler was dead, and that
Wilkes no longer had any interest.

It then prayed an answer to several specific interrogatories, as, namely, whether the several defendants did not
know, or had not been informed, that the probated paper
was a forged instrument? Whether it was not, in fact,
forged, and not the will of Broderick? Whether it was not
fabricated after his death, as stated in the bill ? Whether
Butler did not cause it to be propounded for probate, knowing it to be a forgery? Whether he did not procure the
testimony and probate, and sell the property by virtue of
orders of said Probate Court, as stated? And that MYeGlynn
and others, who took part in the probate sale of the property, might set forth the details thereof, the time when
sold, the amounts received, and the disposition of the proceeds.
It prayed further that the will might be declared a forgery;
that the probate and all subsequent proceedings might be
set aside and annulled, including the decrees of probate,
sale, &c., or that the defendants, purchasers of lands and
lots under the said orders of sale, or deraigning title therefrom, might be charged as trustees for the complainants,
and might be compelled to convey to them, or that a com-

CASE OF BRODERICK'S WILL.

[Sup. Cr.

Statement of the case.

missioner be appointed to make such conveyance, and for
general relief.
By the will in question, a copy of which was annexed to
the bill, the testator, after payment of his debts, gave to his
friend, John A. McGlynn, $10,000, and all the residue of
his estate to George Wilkes, of New York, and made Wilkes,
McGlynn, and Butler executors. It purported to be dated
at New York, January 2d, 1859.
Many of the defendants answered the bill, denying all
knowledge or belief of any fraud or fbrgery in the will, and
claiming to be bondfide purchasers without any notice of any
such fraud or forgery. Many other defendants demurred to
the bill.
In August, 1871, an amended bill was filed, whereby the
complainants reiterated with much particularity the facts
that they never resided in California or the United States,
and never heard, or had any opportunity of hearing of Broderick's death, or the events connected with the probate of
the will, until more than eight years after its being filed for
probate, being illiterate, and living in a remote and secluded
region in Australia, and stating other facts of the same
general character to account for their not having sooner
taken any proceedings to assert their rights.
Demurrers were also filed to the bill as amended, and
upon the argument of these demurrers the bill was dismissed by the Circuit Court. From that decree the present
appeal was taken.
The grounds relied on by the defendants on the demurrer,
and by the appellees here, were1st. That a court of equity had no jurisdiction of the
subject-matter of this suit, the same being vested exclusively in the Probate Court of the City and County of San
Francisco.
2d. That the action was barred by several statutes of limitation of the State of California.
3d. That the defendants were purchasers at a judicial sale,
made under the orders of a court of competent jurisdiction,
never reversed or set aside, and not impeached by the bill.

Oct. 1874.-]

CASE OF BRODERICK'S WILL.

Opinion of the court.

4th. That the complainants were non-resident foreigners,
incapable of taking or holding property in California.
The special character of the Probate Court of the City and
County of San Francisco, and the provisions of the several
statutes of California about it, and also as to limitations, are
set forth in the opinion of the court.*
Mr. I T. Williams (a brief of AlR. S. H Phillips beingfiled),
for the appellants; Mr. S. Al. Wilson, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
As to the first point, it is undoubtedly the general rule,
established both in England and this country, that a court
of equity will not entertain jurisdiction of a bill to set aside
a will or the probate thereof. The case of Kerrick v. Bransby,t
decided by the House of Lords in 1727, is considered as
having definitely settled the question. Whatever may have
been the original, ground of this rule (perhaps something in
the peculiar constitution of the English courts) the most
satisfactory ground for its continued prevalence is, that the
constitution of a succession to a deceased person's estate
partakes, in some degree, of the nature of a proceeding in
rem., in which all persons in the world who have any interest
are deemed parties, and are concluded as upon res judicata
by the decision of the court having jurisdiction. The public
interest requires that the estates of deceased persons, being
deprived of a master, and subject to all manner of claims,
should at once devolve to a new and competent ownership;
and, consequently, that there should be some convenient
jurisdiction and mode of proceeding by which this devolution may be effected with least chance of injustice and fraud;
and that the result attained should be firm and perpetual.
The courts invested with this jurisdiction should have ample
powers both of process and investigation, and sufficient -opportunity should be given to check and revise proceedings
tainted with mistake, fraud, or illegality. These objects
* In fra, p. 515-519.

f 8 Brown's Parliamentary Cases, 888.

CASE OF BRODERIcK'S

WILL.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

are generally accomplished by the constitution and powers
which are given to the probate courts, and the modes provided for reviewing their proceedings. And one of the principal reasons assigned by the equity courts for not entertaining bills on questions of probate is, that the probate courts
themselves have all the powers and machinery necessary to
give full and adequate relier.
In England after the acts of Parliament had authorized
devises of real estate, the same position was assumed by
courts of equity in regard to such devises; it being held
that any fraud, illegality, or mistake affecting their validity
could be fully investigated and redressed in the courts of
common law, where only devises were cognizable.
An occasional exception, or apparent exception, to this
non-interference of courts of equity with wills and devises is
found in the books; but these occasional departures from
the rule are always carefully placed on such special grounds
that they tend rather to establish than to weaken its force.
One of the most prominent cases adverted to is _Barnesley v.
Powel,* in which an executor and residuary legatee had
procured probate of a forged will by fraudulently inducing
the testator's son, the person most directly interested, to execute a deed consenting to its probate, and Lord Hardwicke
declared the deed void, and compelled the executor to consent, in the ecclesiastical court, to a revocation of the probate. But in doing this his lordship made a labored argument to show that the ecclesiastical court had no power to
annul that deed, and that had it attempted to do so the
common-law courts would have restrained it by prohibition.
It has also been held that where a person obtains a legacy
by inserting his own name in the will, instead of that of
the intended legatee, he may be declared a trustee for the
latter.t In such a case the Court of Probate could not furnish a remedy, since to strike the bequest out of the will, or
to refuse probate of it, would defeat the legacy altogether;
and that court is incompetent to declare a trust.
* 1 Vesey, 284.

t- Mariott v. M!ariott, I Strange, 666.

Oct. 1874.]

CASE OF BRODERICK'S WILL.

Opinion of the court.

The English authorities were fully discussed by Lord
Lyndhurst in Allen v. McPherson,* and by him and Lords
Cottenham, Brougham, Langdale, and Campbell in the same
case on appeal in the House of Lords.t In that case a codicil was revoked by a subsequent one, in consequence of
false and fraudulent representations on the part of the person to be benefited by the change, prejudicing the testator
against the person injured thereby. A bill was filed praying that the executor might be declared trustee for the first
legatee to the extent of the legacies revoked. This bill was
demurred to and dismissed; and the whole discussion turned
upon the question whether or not the ecclesiastical court
had jurisdiction to inquire of the matters of fraud alleged;
and the court being of opinion that it had jurisdiction, the
decree was affirmed. The court came to the conclusion
that the ecclesiastical court had power to refuse probate of
the revoking codicil, and, indeed, had had the question before it; but after investigating the facts had granted the
probate. "If," said Lord Lyndhurst, "an error has been
committed in this or any other respect, which I am very far
from supposing, that would not be a ground for coming to
a court of equity. The matter should have been set right
upon appeal. But the present is an attempt to review the
decision of the Court of Probate, not by the judicial committee of the Privy Council, the proper tribunal for that
purpose, but by the court of chancery. I think this cannot
be done. It was formerly, indeed, considered that fraud in
obtaining a will might be investigated and redressed in a
court of equity; but that doctrine has long since been overruled."T Lord Lyndhurst also reviewed the cases in which
a legatee or executor had been declared trustee for other
persons, and came to the conclusion that they had been
either questions of construction, or cases in which the party
had been named a trustee, or had engaged to take as such,
or in which the Court of Probate could afford no adequate
or proper remedy. The effect of his reasoning was, that
*1

Phillips, 133.

t I House of Lords Cases, 191,

$

b. 209.

CASE OF BRODERICK'S WILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

where a remedy is within the power of the ecclesiastical
court, either by granting or refusing probate of the whole
will or codicil, or of any portion thereof, a court of equity
will not interfere. And this was the view of a majority of
the law lords on that occasion, Lords Brougham and Campbell agreeing with Lord Lyndhurst.
It seems, therefore, to be settled law in England that the
court of chancery will not entertain jurisdiction of questions in relation to the probate or validity of a will which
the ecclesiastical court is competent to adjudicate. It will
only act in cases where the latter court can furnish no adequate remedy.
It is laid down in the Duchess of Kingston's Case,* it is
true, that fraud will vitiate the most solemn adjudications of
all courts; and so it will when set up in the proper manner
by the proper parties and in the proper court. But a person who in contemplation of law has had a day in court,
and an opportunity to set up the fraud, and has not done so,
is forever concluded, unless he was ignorant of its perpetration, in which case he will be entitled to set it up whenever he discovers it, if not himself guilty of laches.
The same principles substantially have been adopted by
most of the courts having equity jurisdiction in this country.
The point was considerably discussed in the case of Gaines
v. Chew and _Relf.t That was a bill filed by the heir at law
of Daniel Clark, and charged that a certain will made by
him in 1813 was fraudulently suppressed, that another will
made in 1811 was fraudulently set up and admitted to probate, and that the defendants, some of whom were executors of the latter will, and others purchasers of the estate,
knew the fraud and could furnish the facts to establish the
same, and had received large rents and profits from the
estate, of all which the bill sought a discovery, and an
account of profits received. The bill was demurred to, and
on a division of opinion between the judges of the Circuit
Court the ease came to this court on several questions stated,
* 20 Howell's Staite Trials, 64[4.

t2 Howard, 619.

Oct. 1874.]

CASE OF BRODERICK'S WILL.

Opinion of the court.

one of which was, whether the Circuit Court as a court of
equity could entertain jurisdiction without probate of the
suppressed will. Justice McLean, delivering the opinion of
the court, said: "Formerly-it was a point on which doubts
were entertained, whether courts of equity could not relieve against a will fraudulently obtained. And there are
cases where the chancery has exercised such a jurisdiction.
. . . In other cases such a jurisdiction has been disclaimed,
though the fraud was fully established.... In another class
of cases the fraudulent actor has been held a trustee for the
party injured. . . . These cases [referring to various cases
cited in the opinion] present no very satisfactory result as to
the question under consideration. But since the decision
of Kerrick v. Bransb!y,* and Webb v. Claverden,t it seems to
be considered settled, in England, that equity will not set
aside a will for fraud and imposition. The reason assigned
is, where personal estate is disposed of by a fraudulent
will, relief may be had in the ecclesiastical court; and, at
law, on a devise of real property. . . . In cases of fraud
equity has a concurrent jurisdiction with a court of law, but
in regard to a will charged to have been obtained through
fraud, this rule does not hold. It may be difficult to assign
any very satisfactory reason for this exception. That exclusive jurisdiction over the probate of wills is vested in another
tribunal, is the only one that can be given." After referring
to several cases, the judge proceeds: "The American decisions on this subject have followed the English authorities.
And a deliberate consideration of the question leads us to
say that both the general and local law [of Louisiana] require the will of 1813 to be proved before any title can be
set up under it." The court, however, sustained the bill as
a bill of discovery to assist the complainants in their proofs
before the Court of Probate, and intimate, on the authority
of Barnesley v. Powell, that if the Probate Court should refuse to take jurisdiction from a defect of power to bring the
parties before it, lapse of time, or any other ground, and
8 Brown's Parliamentary Cases, 385.
VOL. xxi.

3

f 2 Atkyns, 424.

CASE OF BRODERICK'S WILL.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

there should be no remedy in the higher courts of the State,
it might become the duty of the Circuit Court, having the
parties before it, to require them to go to the Court of Probate, and consent to the proof of the will of 1813 and the
revocation of the will of 1811; and the judge also went so
far as to intimate further that should this procedure fail it
might be a matter of grave consideration whether the inherent powers of a court of chancery might not afford a
remedy, where the right was clear, by establishing the will
of 1813. Of course, the latter expressions were obiter dicta,
and can hardly be said to have the support of any wellconsidered cases. But the matter decided by the court, and
the burden of the opinion, is in strict accord with the settled
conclusions of the English courts.
Without quoting from the decisions of the various State
courts it is sufficient to refer to the case of California v.
McGlyn,* on the very will now in question. That case was
founded on an information for an escheat of Broderick's
estate, and a bill in equity at the suit of the State against the
executors of the will, praying for an injunction to restrain
them from selling the property of Broderick, and from intermeddling therewith. The principal frauds set up in the
present case were set up in that, and a preliminary injunction, granted by the District Court, was dissolved by the
Supreme Court on appeal on the ground that the probate
of the will belonged to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Probate Court, and having been decided by that court was res
judioata, and could not be reviewed by the court of chancery. The opinion of the court, delivered by Justice orton,
is quite elaborate, and arrives at the following conclusion:
"Upon examining the decisions of the Supreme Court of
the United States, and of the courts of the several States, it
will be found that they have uniformly held that the principles established in England apply and govern cases arising
under the probate laws of this country; and that in the
United States, wherever the power to probate a will is given
* 20 California, 233, 266.

Oct. 1874.]

CASE OF BRODERICK'S 'WILL.

Opinion of the court.

to a probate or surrogate's court the decree of such court
is final and conclusive, and not subject, except on an appeal
to a higher court, to be questioned in any other court, or
be set aside or vacated by the court of chancery on any
ground."
The judge further stated what the statutes of California
demonstrate, that in that State the jurisdiction of the Probate Court is the same in regard to wills of real estate as to
wills of personal estate, both classes requiring probate, and
the probate of each having the same validity and effect.
This is the case in several, perhaps the greater number, of
the United States. In some of the older States, as in England, the probate of a will has no effect upon devises of real
estate therein, except perhaps to stand as primd facie proof
of its execution. But in many States wills of real and personal estate are placed upon the same footing in respect to
probate and authentication. It is true the estate in lands
devised goes to the devisee and not to the executor, but that
is the only difference in the effect of the will or probate as
respects the two classes of property.
There is nothing in the jurisdiction of the probate courts
of California which distinguishes them in respect of the
questions under consideration from other probate courts.
They are invested with the jurisdiction of probate of wills
and letters of administration, and all cognate matters usually
incident to that branch of judicature. The constitution of
the State as originally adopted in 1849, provided that the
judicial power of the State should be vested in a supreme
court, district courts, county courts, and justices of the
peace, and that the legislature might establish such municipal and other inferior courts as might be deemed necessary.*
It also ordained that there should be elected in each of the
organized counties one judge, who should hold his office for
four years, and should hold the county court, and perform
the duties of surrogate or probate judge.These provisions were somewhat modified in September,
* Article 5, 1.

tArticle 6, 8.

CASE OF BRODERICK'S WILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

1862, but not in any manner material to this case. Moreover the will in question was admitted to probate in October, 1860, before any modification took place. The act of
the legislature in force at that time, on the subject of probate, was the act of May 1st, 1851, entitled "An act to regulate the settlement of the estates of deceased persons." By
this act as it stood in 1860, having been somewhat modified
by sundry amendments, it was declared that the county
courts, when sitting for the transaction of probate business,
should be known and called the "Probate Court," and the
county judge should be ex officio probate judge. The mode
of procedure for the probate of wills was pointed out. A
petition was to be filed in the proper court by the executor
or other person interested, and a day appointed for proving
the will, not less than ten nor more than thirty days distant;
and notice was to be published not less than twice a week
in a newspaper published in the county, if there was one;
if not, then by posting in three public places in the county.*
Citations were also to be issued to the heirs, if they resided
in the county, and to any executors named in the will and
not joining in, the application for probate. Subpconas
were to be issued to the witnesses if they resided in the
county. Any person interested might appear and contest
the will; and if it should appear that there were minors or
non-residents of the county interested, the court was to appoint an attorney to represent them. If any person should
appear and contest the will he must file a statement in writing of the grounds of his opposition. Issues when formed
were to be sent to the District Court for trial by jury, unless
the parties consented to a trial in the Probate Court.t Incompetency, restraint, undue influence, fraudulent representations, and any other cause affecting the validity of the
will, are specially mentioned as questions upon which issues
might thus be formed. Various provisions were added calculated to secure a thorough investigation on the merits.t
Hittell's Laws of California, Article " Probate Act," chap. 2,
1Ib.
16-20.
: lb. 20.

14-13.

Oct. 1874.]

CASE OF BRODERICK'S WILL.
Opinion of the court.

It was further provided, that when a will had been admitted to probate, any person interested might at any time
within one year after such probate, contest the same or the
validity of the will, by filing in the same court a petition
containing his allegations against its validity or the sufficiency of the proof, and praying that the probate might be
revoked. Hereupon new citations were to be issued and a
new trial had. But it was declared that if no person should
within one year appear to contest the will or probate, the
latter should be conclusive, saving to infants, married women, and persons of unsound mind, a like period of one
year after disability removed.*
In view of these provisions, it is difficult to conceive of a
more complete and effective probate jurisdiction, or one
better calculated to attain the ends of justice and truth.
The question recurs, do the facts stated in the present bill
lay a sufficient ground for equitable interference with the
probate of Broderick's will, or for establishing a trust as
against the purchasers of his estate in favor of the complainants? It needs no argument to show, as it is perfectly
apparent, that every objection to the will or the probate
thereof could have been raised, if it was not raised, in the
Probate Court during the proceedings instituted for proving
the will, or at any time within a year after probate was
granted; and that the relief sought by declaring the purchasers trustees for the benefit of the complainants would
have been fully compassed by denying probate of the will.
On the establishment or non-establishment of the will depended the entire right of the parties; and that was a ques.
tion entirely and exclusively within the jurisdiction of the
Probate Court. In such a case a court of equity will not
interfere, for it has no jurisdiction to do so. The Probate
Court was fully competent to afford adequate relief.
But the complainants allege that in consequence of circumstances beyond their control, and without their fault,
they had no knowledge or information of Broderick's death,
* Hittell's Laws of California, Article "Probate Act" chap. 2,

80-86.

CASE OF BRODERICK'S WILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and, of course, no knowledge of the forgery of his will until
within three years prior to the commencement of this suit,
and after the period for contesting the will in the Probate
Court had expired, and when the power of said court to investigate the subject further had ceased. They therefore
insist that as the Probate Court had no further jurisdiction
over the subject, a court of equity was competent to give
relief as against parties having possession of the estate or its
proceeds malO fide or without consideration.
Concede this to be true to a certain extent where injured
parties have not lost their opportunity of appearing in the
Court of Probate or in the equity court by any laches of
their own; still it cannot help the complainants. What excuse have they for not appearing in the Probate Court, for
example? None. No allegation is made that the notices
were fraudulently suppressed, or that the death of Broderick
was fraudulently concealed. The only excuse attempted to
be offered is, that they lived in a secluded region and did
not hear of his death, or of the probate proceedings. If this
excuse could prevail it would unsettle all proceedings in tern.
But even admitting that, as to surplus proceeds, and
property undisposed of, or acquired by those having actual
knowledge of the fraud, the complainants might come into
a court of equity on the ground of their own ignorance of
the events when they transpired, they would still have to
encounter the statute of limitations, which expressly declares
that action for relief on the ground of fraud can only be
commenced within three years; and the statutes of limitation in California apply to suits in equity as well as to actions
at law.* It is true that it is added that the cause of action
in such case is not to be deemed to have accrued until the
discovery by the aggrieved party of the facts constituting
the fraud. But that is only the application to cases at law
of a principle which has always been acted upon in courts
of equity. If fraud is kept concealed so as not to come to
the knowledge of the party injured, those courts will not
* Boyd v. Blankman, 29 California, 19.

Oct. 1874.]

CASE OF BRODERICK'S WILL.
Qpinion of the court.

charge him with laches or negligence in the vindication of
his rights until after he has discovered the facts constituting
the fraud. And this is most just. But that principle cannot avail the complainants in this case. By their own showing their delay was due, not to ignorance of the fraud, nor
any attempt to conceal it, but to ignorance of Broderick's
death, and all the open and public facts of the case. They
admit, and expressly charge, that it was a matter of public
notoriety at San Francisco, as early as 1861, that the will in
question was not Broderick's will, but was a forged and
simulated paper. They do not pretend that the facts of the
fraud were shrouded in concealment, but their plea is that
they lived in a remote and secluded region, far from means
of information, and never heard of Broderick's death, or of
the sale of his property, or of any events connected with the
settlement of his estate, until many years after these events
had transpired. Parties cannot thus, by their seclusion from
the means of information, claim exemption from the laws
that control human affairs, and set up a right to open up all
the transactions of the past. The world must move on, and
those who claim an interest in persons or things must be
charged with knowledge of their status and condition, and
of the vicissitudes to which they are subject. This is the
foundation of all judicial proceedings in rem.
The fact that two of the complainants are married women
does not take them out of the operation of the statute of
limitations of California. They are only exempt when it is
necessary that their husbands should join them in the suit.
This is not necessary by the law of the State where they sue
for their separate estate, as in the present case. As to such
property they act as femes sole. This suit, had it lain at
all, could have been brought by the complainants, who are
married women, though their husbands had refused to join
them therein.
The statute of 1862 has been referred to, which gives to
the District Courts of California power to set aside a will
obtained by fraud or undue influence, or a forged will, and
any probate obtained by fraud, concealment, or perjury.

CASE OF BRODERICK'S WILL.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

Whilst it is true that alterations in the jurisdiction of the
State courts cannot affect the equitable jurisdiction of the
Circuit Courts of the United States, so long as the equitable
rights themselves remain, yet an enlargement of equitable
rights may be administered by the Circuit Courts, as well
as by the courts of the State. And this is probably a case
in which an enlargement of equitable rights is effected,
although presented in the form of a remedial proceeding.
Indeed, much of equitable jurisdiction consists of better and
more effective remedies for attaining the rights of parties.
But the statute referred to cannot affect this suit, inasmuch
as the statute of limitations would still apply in full force,
and would present a perfect bar to the suit.
We can perceive no ground on which the bill in this case
can be sustained.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE specially concurring.
Mi'. Justice CLIFFORD, with whom concurred Mr. Justice DAVIS, dissenting:
I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in
this case for the following reasons: (1.) Because courts of
equity may exercise jurisdiction to set aside and annul a
decree of the Probate Court approving and allowing an instrument purporting to be the last will and testament of a
deceased person, in a case where it appears that the instrument is a forgery and that the decree approving and allowing the instrument was procured by perjury and fraud, provided it appears that the injured party has not been guilty
of laches and that he has no other adequate remedy. (2.)
Because all the leading authorities cited to support the opposite rule admit that the jurisdiction does exist in cases
where there is no other remedy. (3.) Because the right of
the complainants in this cause is not barred by the statute
of limitations.

