INSURANCE

COMPANY V. MAHONE.

[Sup. or.

Statement of the case.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. MAHONE.
1. The answer to a question put by an insurance company to an applicant
for insurance, on a matter going to affect the risk, as written down by
the agent of the company, when he takes the application for insurance,
and which is signed by the applicant, may be proved by the evidence of
persons who were present, not to have been the answer given by the
applicant. Insurance Company v. Wilkinson (13 Wallace, 222), affirmed.
2. The opinion of a medical witness that a person was not worthy of insurance, in June of one year, is not competent evidence in a suit on a
policy issued on the 30th of August of the same year; there being no
issue made in the pleadings as to the health of the assured prior to the
date of the policy.
3. Under a stipulation that "all original papers filed in the case" (a suit
against a life insurance company, on a policy of life insurance), and
"which were competent evidence for either side," may be read in evidence, the written opinions of the medical examiner of the company,
and of its agent appointed to examine risks, both made at the time of
the application for insurance and appended to the proposals for insurance, and both certifying that the risk was a first-class risk, are competent evidence on an issue of fraudulent representation to the company,
to show that the company was not deceived.
4. Evidence that the general agent of an insurance company, sent by it to
examine into the circumstances, connected with the death of a person
insured, after so examining, expressed the opinion that it would " be
best for the company to accept the situation and pay the amount of the
policy," is not competent on a suit by the holders of the policy against
the company.

to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Mississippi.
Mahone and wife brought debt on a policy of life insurance issued by the American Life Insurance Company,
August 30th, 1870, for $5000, on the life of one Dillard.
The policy was issued to him, but to be paid to Mrs. Malone,
one of the plaintiffs, his sister, within sixty days after notice
of his death, with proviso, that it should be void "if he shall
become so far intemperate as to impair his health."
Dillard died November 4th, 1870, at a place called Edwards's Depot.
The general nature of the defence was that the policy had
ERROR

Oct. 1874.J

153

INSURANCE COMPANY V. MAHONE..
Statement of the case.

been issued on the faith of false and fraudulent representations made by Dillard, whose life was insured, and that
those representations were by the express agreement of the
parties declared to be warranties.
Among the questions propounded to Dillard, and answered in the "proposals for insurance," was the following:
"Is the party temperate and regular in his habits?"
To which the answer "yes"
question and answer No. 5.
Question No. 16 was:

was appended.

This was

"Is the applicant aware that any untrue or fraudulent answer
to the above queries, or any suppressioh of facts in regard to
health, habits, or circumstances, will vitiate the policy ?"
To this the answer "yes" was also appended.
One issue was whether Dillard had falsely and fraudulently answered "yes" to the question No. 5.
None of the answers were written by Dillard, though he
signed his name at the foot of them all. They were written
by one Yeiser, the agent of the company, and, as he testified, read over to Dillard, who then signed them, and immediately afterwards signed a declaration filled up by the agent,
which was, in effect, an agreement that if the said pi'oposals,
answers, and declarations returned to the company should
be found fraudulent or untrue in any respect, or if there
should be any wilful misrepresentation or conceAlment in
the said declaration, the policy should be void. Evidence
of all this was introduced by the defendants, and after its
introduction the plaintiffs were permitted, against the objection of the defendants, to call a witness, one Cox, and to
prove by him that he was present when Yeiser propounded
question No. 5 to Dillard, and that Dillard's answer was not
"yes," but that "I never refuse to take a drink," or "I
always take my drinks," and that the answer "yes" was
improperly written down without the knowledge or consent
of Dillard. The reception of this testimony of Cox constituted the basis of the first assignment of error.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. MAHONE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Another issue in the case was:
"Whether after the execution of the policy Dillard had become so far intemperate as to impair his health."
There was no issue as to his health prior to the insurance.
The second assignment complained of the exclusion of
the testimony of Dr. Alexander, a medical witness.
This witness was offered to prove that, as the medical examiner of another insurance company, he had examined
Dillard in June, 1870, and had given his opinion in writing
to that" company that Dillard was not worthy of insurance.
This offer the court overruled.
The same witness was also asked whether he was acquainted with the condition and state of health of Dillard in
June, 1870; and, if so, what it was, and the nature of his
disease or malady, if any; and to this question, also, the
court refused to permit an answer.
The third assignment was this: The plaintiffs were allowed
in the cross-examination of one of the defendants' witnesses
to ask whether a certain Dearing, the general travelling agent
and supervisor of the defendants in the Southern States, did
not, some time after the death of Dillard, visit Edwards's
Depot (the place at which Dillard died) for the purpose of
examining into the claim of the plaintiffs to have payment
of the policy; and if so, whether he did make such examination, and whether he expressed an opinion as to whether
or not the payment should be made? The witness under
exception answered, "that Dearing did some time after Dillard's death visit Edwards's Depot for the purpose, as he
stated, of examining into the liability of the insurance company upon the policy sued on; that the wtness introduced
Dearing to a number of the leading citizens of the place for
the purpose of enabling him to ascertain the facts; that he
remained some hours, and before going away expressed to the
witness that in his opinion it would be best for the company
to accept the situation and pay the amount of the policy."
The fourth and fifth assignments of error were these:
It had been stipulated by the parties that all the original

Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. MAHONE.

155

Opinion of the court.

papers filed in the cause, and which were competent evidence for either side, should be read in evidence. Against
the objection of the defendants below, the plaintiffs below
were allowed to read in evidence the certificate of one Harris,
medical examiner of the company, and also a written statement of Yeiser, agent of the company, both made at the
time of Dillard's application for insurance, and both certifying to the insurance company that Dillard was a first-class
risk. These two papers were appended to the proposals for
insurance and declaration, and the proposals and declaration
by name were made part of the first and third pleas. The
court allowed them to be read, and the company excepted.
A sixth assignment of error was to the charge. It presented in that form the same question as did the first, to the
evidence.
Verdict and judgment having been given for the plaintiffs,
the insurance company brought the case here.
Messrs. Isaac .Hazlehurstand .E. L. Stanton, for the plaintiffs
in error; Messrs. J.M. Carlisle and J. D. McPherson, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
That there is no substantial reason for complaining of the
ruling of the court in receiving the testimony of the witness
Cox-the reception of which constitutes the basis of the first
assignment of error-is, we think, fully shown by what was
decided in Insurance Company v. Willdnson,* and in the cases
therein mentioned. The testimony was admitted, not to
contradict the written warranty, but to show that it was not
the warranty of Dillard, though signed by him. Prepared,
as it was, by the company's agent, and the answer to No. 5
having been made, as the witness proved, by the agent, the
proposals, both questions and answers, must be regarded as
the act of the company, which they cannot be permitted to
set up as a warranty by the assured. And this is especially
so when, as in this case, true answers were in fact made by
* 13 Wallace, 222.

INSURANCE

O0MPANY V. MAHONE.

[Slip. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

the applicant (if the witness is to be believed), and the agent
substituted for them others, now alleged to be untrue, thus
misrepresenting the applicant as well as deceiving his own
principals. Nor do we think it makes any difference that the
answers as written by the agent were subsequently read to
Dillard and signed by him. Having himself answered truly,
and Yeiser having undertaken to prepare and forward the
proposals, Dillard had a right to assume that the answers
he did make were accepted as meaning, for the purpose of
obtaining a. policy, what Yeiser stated them in writing to
be. The acts and declarations of Yeiser are to be considered the acts and declarations of the company whose agent
he was, and Dillard was justified in so understanding them.
The transaction, therefore, was substantidlly this: The company asked Dillard, "Are you temperate and regular in
your habits?" to which he answered, "I never refuse to
take a drink," or, "I always take my drinks." To this the
company replied, in effect, "We understand your answer to
mean the same, in your application for a policy, as if you
had answered 'yes,' and we accept it as such, and write
'yes' in the proposals." Then, upon being asked whether
he warranted the truth of his answers, he returned the reply,
"Since you so understand my answers, I do." Surely, after
such a transaction, the company cannot be permitted to say
that the applicant is bound by what was written in the proposals for insurance as his warranty. And that such was
the transaction the evidence received by the court tended to
prove. The first assignment of error, therefore, cannot be
sustained. Nor can the sixth, which is to the charge of the
court, alid which presents substantially the same question as
that raised by the first.
The second assignment complains of the exclusion of certain testimony of Dr. Alexander. We cannot see why the
testinioy should have been received. The unfitness of
Dillard- for insurance in June, 1870, surely could not be
proved-by the fact that the witness had then expressed an
opinion that he was unfit. And besides, such an opinion had
no pertinency to any of the issues joined between the parties.

Oct. 1874.]

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. MAHONE.

Opinion of the court.

The witness was also asked whether he was acquainted
with the condition and state of health of Dillard in June,
1870; and, if so, what it was, and the nature of his disease
or malady, if any; and to this question, also, the court refused to permit an answer. The policy on which the suit
was brought was made on the 30th day of August, 1870.
Had the question addressed to the witness related to a time
subsequent to the issuance of the policy, the answer to it
should have been received, for one of the issues on trial was
whether Dillard, "after the execution of the policy, became
so far intemperate as to impair his health." But there was
no issue in regard to his health prior to the insurance, and,
therefore, the evidence offered was rightly rejected.
Of the fourth and fifth assignments, it is sufficient to say
that we do not perceive they exhibit any error.
The third assignment is of more importance. The plaintiffs were allowed in the cross-examination of one of the
defendants' witnesses to ask whether one Dearing, the general travelling agent and supervisor of the defendants in the
Southern States', did not, some time after the death of Dillard, and after he had made an examination of the claim of
the plaintiffs, express an opinion that it should be paid. To
this question the witness replied that Dearing had expressed
his opinion that it would be best for the defendants to accept
the situation and pay the amount of the policy. That such
an opinion allowed to go to the jury must have been very
hurtful to the defendants' case is manifest, and that it was
inadmissible is equally clear. The opinion of an agent,
based upon past occurrences, is never to be received as an
admission of his principals; and this is doubly true when
the agent was not a party to those occurrences. We have so
recently discussed this subject in Packet Company v. Clough,*
that it is needless to say more. For the error in receiving
this evidence the judgment must be reversed.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and a
IEW TRIAL ORDERED.

20 Wallace, 528.

