Oct. 1874.]

TILDEN

v).

B LAIR.

Statement of the case.

TILDEN v. BLAIR.
1. The acceptance of a draft dated in one State and drawn by a resident of'
such State on the resident of another, and by the latter accepted without
funds and purely for the accommodation of the former, and then returned to him to be negotiated in the State where he resides, and theproceeds to be used in his business there-he to provide for its payment-is, after it has been negotiated and in the hands of a bond fide holder forvalue and without notice of equities, to be regarded as a contract madein the State where the draft is dated and drawn, even though by the
terms of the acceptance the draft is payable in the State where theacceptors reside.
2. It is accordingly to be governed by the law of the former State; and if
by the law of that State the holder of it, who had purchased it in a,
course of business without notice of equities, is entitled to recover thesum he paid for it, though he bought it usuriously, he may recover sush
sum, though by the law of the State where the draft was accepted and.
made payable, and where usury made a contract wholly void, he could.
not.
8. A purchaser of a bill or note who purchases such paper as that above described, though a broker, is not a lender of money on it, and if he purchase honestly and without notice of equities-there being nothing on the,
face of the draft to awaken suspicion-he can recover the fall amount.
of the draft.
4. Though this court may be satisfied that a plain error has been committed
in a judgment below against a defendant in error, and that he ought to
have more than the court below adjudged to him, yet if he himself
have assigned no error, the error of the court below cannot be corrected.
here on the writ of the opposite side.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York; the case as found by the court having been
thus:
On the 4th of August, 1869, W. T. Pelton, a resident of
Chicago, Illinois, and doing business there, drew a draft on
Tilden & Co., residents of New Lebanon in the State of New
York, payable to his own order, for $5000 at sixty days,
dating it at Chicago. This draft Pelton sent to Tilden &
Co., to the members of which firm he was nearly related, and
they accepted it, "payable at the Bank of North America,
New York," for his accommodation and in order to aid him
in iaising funds for carrying on his business, and without
VOL. XXI.

16

TILDEN

v.

BLAIR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

any consideration or security therefor, and without any
funds in their hands to protect it; the understanding being
that the draft was to be discounted at a certain bank in Chicago, and that Pelton should take it up at maturity. Having
accepted the draft, Tilden & Co. sent it back to Pelton, for
the purpose of being negotiated in Illinois, and in order that
the proceeds might be used in his business in that State and
in Michigan. Pelton having indorsed the draft delivered it
to one A. C. Coventry for the purpose of having him negotiate it for the benefit of him, Pelton; and Coventry, having
indorsed it also, sold it through a note-broker to one Blair
at Chicago for $4825, and no more, Blair, at the time when
he discounted the draft, having no knowledge whatever of
the understanding between Tilden & Co. and Pelton, or that
the draft was accommodation paper and accepted without
any funds in the hands of Tilden & Co.
The draft when it went into Blair's hands appeared, of
course, in this form:
$5000.]

CHICAGO, August 4th, 1869.

Sixty days after date pay to the order of myself five thousand
-dollars, value received, with exchange, and charge to account of
W. T. PELTON.
To IMESSRS. TILDEN & Co.,
New Lebanon, New York.

Accepted, payable at the Bank of N1orth America, New York.
TILDEN & CO.

Indorsed: W. T.

PELTON, A. C. COVENTRY.

By statute of New York, the exacting of greater interest
than seven per cent. renders a contract illegal and void.
By the statutes of Illinois ten per cent. interest is lawful.
Any agreement for a higher rate forfeits all the interest.
But the contract is not void and the principal may be recovered.
And an act of Illinois (that of February 12th, 1857), enacts as follows:
"Where any contract or loan shall be made in this State, or
between citizens of this State and any other State or country,
bearing interest at any rate which was or shall be lawful accord-

Oct. 1874.]

TILDEN v. BLAIR.
Argument for the acceptor of the draft.

ing to any law of the State of Illinois, it shall and may be lawfal to make the amount of principal and interest of such contract.
or loan payable in any other State or Territory of the United
States, or in the city of London in England; and in all such
cases such contract or-loan shall be deemed and considered as
governed by the laws of the State of Illinois, and shall not be
affected by the laws of the State or country where the same
shall be made payable."
The draft matured, of course, on the 6th of October, 1869;
and the acceptors refusing to pay it, Blair sued them in
assumpsit in the court below. Plea, usury.
The issue was tried by the court, which found the facts
as already given, and found conclusions of law as follows:
1st. That by accepting the draft and returning it to the
possession of the draweri the defendants empowered him to
negotiate it and put it in circulation by any valid transfer.
2d. That the negotiation and transfer having been made
in Illinois was valid, except as to the interest reserved.
3d. That interest having exceeded the rate of ten per
cent. per annum interest was forfeited, and could not be collected either from the drawers or acceptors. That as to the
principal, it was valid as to both.
4th. That the plaintiff was entitled to judgment for the
sum of $4825, being the principal less the interest illegally
reserved, with costs.
The defendants excepted to the first, second, and fourth of
these conclusions of law, and to so much of the third as
found that the contract, except as to interest reserved, was
valid, and was binding on the defendants as to the principal.
The plaintiff excepted to the fourth conclusion so far as
it limited his right of recovery to the $4825, and to the refusal of the court to allow interest.
Judgment being given for $4825, the defendants, Tilden
& Co., brought the case here on error; Blair, the plaintiff,
not taking any writ or assigning any error.
Mr. J. M. Van Cott, for the plaintiffs in error:
Parties to negotiable paper are liable according to the law

TILDEN

v.

BLAIR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the holder of the draft.

of the place where their respective contracts are made, or
where their contracts are to be performed when made, and
to be performed at different places.* And where any fact
exists to take the case out of the general law it must be
pleaded.t
That the draft was accepted, and was payable in New
York, appeared on its face and was notice to all the world;
and the liability of the acceptors on their contract could not
be varied by the place where the drawer or holder transferred the obligation.
By the law of New York, the negotiation of the draft was
unlawful, and the contract connected with it wholly void.
The judgment giving Blair anything was, therefore, erroneous.
Mr. T B. Burrill (a brief of Mr. . B. Niles being filed),
contra:
1. The acceptance having been made without consideration, for the accommodation of Pelton, and having had no
validity until it was negotiated, and having been first negotiated in Illinois, it had its legal inception there, and the
only contract made by the defendants, or created by the
transfer of the acceptance, was made there.
2. The draft is dated at Chicago, and that was the place
of residence, and place of business, of the drawer; and the
acceptance having been made and delivered for the purpose
of being negotiated in Illinois, and used in the business carried on by the drawer in that State, it is clear that the
acceptance was made with intentional and direct reference
to the laws of Illinois.
3. Although the signature of the defendants was affixed
to the draft in N~ew York, it was not delivered there, but was
sent to Pelton, the drawer, at Chicago, by letter, and it was
there received and there negotiated by Pelton in accordance
* Everett v. Vendryes, 19 New York, 436; Hyde v. Goodnow, 3 Id. 266;
Cook v. Litchfield, 9 Id. 280; Lee v. Selleck, 33 Id. 615.
t Everett v. Vendryes, 19 New York, 436, 439; Thatcher v. Morris, 11
Id. 437, 439.

Oct. 1874.]

TILDEN

v. BLAIR.

Argument for the holder of the draft.

with the intention of the defendants. In such circumstances
the acceptance is to be treated as made in Illinois.*
As the contract is to be governed by the laws of Illinois,
the question whether the purchase by Blair was a violation
of the usury laws of that State, is a matter to be decided by
its own courts. Those courts have held that the usury laws
do not affect the right to purchase negotiable commercial
paper at any price which may be agreed upon between the
parties; that a man who purchases negotiable commercial
paper does not make a loan of money.t
This being the true law of the case, and there having in
truth been no question of usury in the case, it is Blair, the
plaintiff below, not Tilden & Co., who has cause to complain
of the judgment. Blair, it is plain, has recovered less than
he was entitled to. While the acceptance was $5000, he recovered but $4825, thus losing $175. In addition he lost
the interest from 6th October, 1869, when the note matured,
to 2d March, 1873, when the judgment was rendered. The
question now is, whether, inasmuch as the record is brought
here by the other side and not by us, we can obtain the relief which we are clearly entitled to? What good reason
is there why this court should not correct the error in the
judgment of which we complain? The sole object of a writ
of error is to bring into the appellate court the record from
the court below, in order that it may be reviewed. The
whole case with all the facts found and the conclusions of
law as stated, is already before the court on the present writ.
By no possibility can the court ever be better informed as
to the facts or the alleged error of which we complain.
Should Blair be required to sue out a separate writ of error
in his own behalf, he would necessarily bring here this same
record without the variation of a word. Is such a duplication of this suit required?
The second section of the act of June 1st, 1872,1 provides
* Lee v. Selleck, 33 New York, 618; Cook v. Litchfield, 9 Id. 290; Hyde
v. Goodnow, 3 Id. 270.
t Raplee v. Morgan, 2 Scammon, 661; Sherman v. Blackman, 24 Illinois, 347.
$ 17 Stat. at Large, 197.

TILDEN V. BLAIR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

that this court may affirm, modify, or reverse the judgment,
decree, or order, brought before it for review, or may direct
such judgment, decree, or order, to be rendered, or such further
proceeding to be had, by the inferior court, as the justice of
the case may require.
This provision is similar to that contained in section 330
of the Code of Procedure, by which appeals in the State of
New York are governed; and according to the decisions of
the courts of that State, where the facts are found by a court
without the intervention of a jury, it is competent and proper
for the appellate tribunal to render such judgment as upon
the facts conceded or established either party was entitled
to.*
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
That the contract upon which the suit was brought was
made in Illinois must be considered as established by the
findings of the Circuit Court. It is true the defendants
formally accepted the draft in New York, and promised to
pay at a bank in New York, but there was no operative acceptance until the draft was negotiated. They sent it back
to Illinois, where it had been drawn, for the purpose of
having it negotiated there. Pelton, the drawer, for whose
accommodation the acceptance was given, was thus constituted the agent of the acceptors to give effect to their action.
While the draft remained in his hands it was no binding
contract. He had no rights as against the defendants, but
he was empowered to negotiate the draft, and thereby to
initiate a liability not only of himself, but also of the defendants. It was only when the instrument was negotiated
that it became an accepted draft. It has long been settled
that the liability of an acceptor does not arise from merely
writing his name on the bill, but that it commences with
the subsequent delivery to a band fide holder, or with notice
of acceptance given to such holdert That this is so has
* Marquat v. Marquat, 12 New York, 836; Beach v. Cooke, 28 Id. 508;
Edmonston v. XcLoud, 16 Id. 543; Purchase v. 3atteson, 25 Id. 211;
Brownell v. Winnie, 29 Id. 400; Hannay v. Fell, 8 E. D. Smith, 432.
t Byles on Bills, 151.

Oct. 1874.]

TILDEN v. BLAIR.
Opinion of the court.

often been asserted in judicial decisions, and often in New
York.* The doctrine is most reasonable. It is, therefore, quite immaterial, under the facts of this case, that the
defendants resided in New York, and that they there wrote
their acceptance upon the draft. In legal effect they accepted the draft in, Chicago, when by their authority the
drawer negotiated it, and thus caused effect to be given to
their undertaking. Nor is the law of the contract changed
by the fact that the acceptance was made payable in New
York. The place of payment was doubtless designated for
the convenience of the acceptors, or to facilitate the negotiation of the draft. But it is a controlling fact that before
the acceptance had any operation-before the instrument
became a bill, the defendants sent it to Illinois for the purpose of having it negotiated in that State-negotiated, it
must be presumed, at such a rate of discount as by the law
of that State was allowable. What more cogent evidence
could there be that it was intended to create an Illinois bill?
The case is exactly the same as it would be if the. defendants
had been residents of Chicago when the draft was drawn,
and had accepted it at Chicago for the accommodation of
the drawer, designating New York as the place of payment.
It is plain, therefore, that the contract is an Illinois contract, and that the rights and liabilities of the parties must
be determined according to the law of that State. By its
statutes persons may contract to receive ten per cent. interest upon any debt due them, whether it be verbal or written.
Ifthey stipulate for a higher rate they forfeit the interest,
but the statute expressly allows the recovery of the principal. The contract is not declared to be void. Only so
much of it is void as exacts the excessive interest. And by
a legislative act passed February 12th, A.D. 1857, it is enacted as follows, viz.: "When any contract or loan shall be
made in this State, or between citizens of this State and any
other State or country, bearing interest at any rate which
* Cook v. Litchfield, 5 Selden, 279; Lee v. Selleck, 83 New York Reps,
615, and Hyde v. Goodnow, 8 Comstock, 271.

TILDEN

v.

:BLAIR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

was or shall be lawful according to any law of the State of
Illinois, it shall and may be lawful to make the amount of
principal and interest of such contract or loan payable in
any other State or Territory of the United States, or in the
eity of London, in England, and in all such cases such contract or loan shall be deemed and considered as governed by
the laws of the State of Illinois, and shall not be affected by
the laws of the State or country where the same shall be
made payable." Provisions very similar to these are also
made by the statute of February 12th, 1857.*
If,then, the contract is, as we think it must be regarded,
an Illinois contract, and if, therefore, the rights of the plaintiff are to be determined by the laws of that State, there
can be no doubt he was entitled to judgment, and to judgment for the full face of the draft, with interest from the
time it fell due. Even if the contract had been usurious, he
would have been entitled to a judgment for all that the Circuit Court allowed him, for, as we have seen, the contract
would not have been void, the statute expressly declaring
that when usury is taken the principal debt may be recovered, while the interest reserved may not be. The case
would be quite different if the law of the State made void
an instrument usuriously negotiated. There was, however,
no usury. And where a note or a bill is not made void by
statute, mere illegality in its consideration will not affect the
rights of a bondfide holder for value.t The plaintiff in this
case was a bon fide purchaser of the draft. At the time of
his purchase he had no notice of any equities in the drawer,
or in the acceptors. There was nothing on the face of the
instrument to awaken suspicion that it was accommodation
paper, or that it had not been regularly and lawfully negotiated. He bought it from bill brokers, after it had been
indorsed by the drawer and payee, and also by Carpenter,
an apparent indorsee of the payee. That his purchase was
not corrupt; that it was perfectly lawful under the law of
* Gross's Statutes, 371-2.

t Norris v. Langley, 19 New Hampshire, 423; Converse v. Foster, 32
Vermont, 320; Conkling v. Underhill, 3 Scammon, 388.

Oct. 1874.]

OCHILTREE V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
Statement of the case.

Illinois can admit of no question.* And this is the rule
everywhere unless the note or bill is declared by statute to
be void in its inception.
The plaintiffs in error, therefore, have no cause of complaint. The Circuit Court gave judgment against them for
the sum which the plaintiff had paid for the draft, without
interest. The judgment was only too favorable to them.
It should have been for the full amount of the acceptance,
with interest from the time it fell due, and had the case been
brought here by the plaintiffs below we should direct such
a judgment. But the present writ presents to us only the
assignments of error made by the defendants, and as they
are unsustained, we can do no more than
AFFIRM THE JUDGMENT GIVEN.

OCHILTREE v. THE RAILROAD COMPANY.
1. Where the constitution of a State-makes each stockholder in a corpora
tion "individually liable for its debts, over and above the stock owned
by him," in a further sum at least equal in amount to such stock, and
the corporation incurs debts, and is then authorized to obtain subscriptions for new stock, but does not now obtain them, and the constitution
of the State is afterwards amended and declares that "in no case shall
any stockholder be individually liable in any amount over or above the
amount of stock owned by him," and the corporation then, for the firat
time, issues the new stock, the holders of such new stock are not personally liable under the first constitution.
2. The amended constitution does not impair the obligation of the contract
between the corporation and its debtor made under the first constitution.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Missouri; the case being
thus:
A constitution of Missouri adopted in 1865, under a provision relating to the debts due by corporations having stockholders, thus enacted:
"In all cases each stockholder shall be individually liable
* Sherman v. Blackman, 24 Illinois, 347; Hemenway v. Cropsey, 37 Id.

857.

,

