Oct. 1874.]

ADAMS

v.

ADAMS.

Syllabus.

tion of his suit. He does not even inform us when he first
became acquainted with his supposed wrongs. His language is that he was not aware of the purchase by the defendant until lately-language altogether too vague to invoke
the action of a court of equity. The party, says this court
in Badger v. Badger,* citing from previous decisions, who
appeals to the conscience of the chancellor in support of a
claim, where there has been laches in prosecuting it, or long
acquiescence in the assertion of adverse rights, "should set
forth in his bill specifically what were the impediments to
an earlier prosecution of his claim; how he came to be so
long ignorant of his rights, and the means used by the respondent to fraudulently keep him in ignorance; and how
and when he first came to a knowledge of the matters alleged in his bill; otherwise the chancellor may justly refuse
to consider his case, on his own showing, without inquiring
whether there is a demurrer or formal plea of the statute of
limitations contained in the answer."
The reasons here stated apply to the present case, and
justify the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the complainant's bill; which is, therefore,
A.FFIRMED.

ADAMS V. ADAMS.
1. When on a bill by a wife against her husband to establish a deed of trust
to a third party in her favor, and now in the husband's possession, which
deed she alleges that he executed and delivered, the husband, in an answer responsive to her bill, denies that he did deliver it, his denial comes
to nothing if he admit in the same answer certain facts, as, ex. gr., that
he signed and sealed it, acknowledged it before a proper magistrate,
and put it upon record; facts which of themselves may, under the circumstances of the case, constitute a delivery. In such a case he denies
the law simply.
2. When husband and wife join in making a deed of property belonging to
him, to a third party, in trust for the wife, the fact that such party was
not in the least cognizant of what was done, and never heard of nor saw
* 2 Wallace, 95.

ADAMS V. ADAMS.

[Sull. Ct.

Statement of the case.
the deed until long afterwards, when he at once refused to accept the
trust or in any way to act in it, does not affect the transaction as between the husband and wife.
8. A deed by husband and wife conveying by formal words, in presenti, a
portion of his real property in trust to a third party, for the wife's separate use, signed, sealed, and acknowledged by both parties, all in form
and put on record in the appropriate office by the husband, and afterwards spoken of by him to her and to other persons as a provision
which he had made for her and her children against accident, here sustained as such trust in her favor, in the face of his answer that he
never "delivered" the deed, and that owing to the disturbed and revolutionary character of the times (the rebellion then, August, 1861, apparently waxing strong), and the threatened condition of the Federal city
and other contingencies growing out of the war, he had caused the deed
to be made and partiallyexecuted, so that upon short notice he could
deliver it and make it effectual, retaining in the meantime the control
of the title; and that he had himself put it on record, and that it had
never been out of his possession except for the time necessary to have it
recorded. This decision made, though the person named in the deed
as trustee never heard of the deed until years afterwards, when he was
called on by the wife, she being then divorced from her husband, to
assert the trust.
APPEAL

lumbia.

from the Supreme Court of the District of CoThe case was thus:

Adams, a government clerk, in Washington, owning a
house and lot there, on the 13th of August, 1861, executed,
with his wife, a deed of the premises to one Appleton, in
fee, as trustee for the wife. The deed by appropriate words
in prasendi conveyed, so far as its terms were concerned, the
property for the sole and separate use of the wife for life,
with power to lease and to take the rents for her own use, as
if she was a feme sole; the trustee having power, on request
of the wife, to sell and convey the premises in fee and pay
the proceeds to her or as she might direct; and after her
death (no sale having been made), the trust being that the
trustee should hold the property for the children of the marriage as tenants in common, and in default of issue living at
the death of the wife, then for Adams, the husband, his
heirs and assigns.
The deed was signed by the grantors, and the husband
acknowledged it before two justices "to be his act and

Get. 1874.]

ADAMS

v.

ADAMS.

Statement of the case.

deed." The wife did the same; being separately examined.
The instrument purported to be "signed, sealed, and deliv.
ered" in the presence of the same justices, and they signed
it as attesting witnesses. The husband put it himself on
record in the registry of deeds for the county of Washington, D. C., which was the appropriate place of record for it.
Subsequent to this, that is to say in September, 1870, the
husband and wife were divorced by judicial decree.
And subsequently to this again, that is to say, in December, 1871-the husband being in possession of the deed, and
denying that any trust was ever created and executed, and
Appleton, on the wife's request, declining to assert the trust,
or to act as trustee, Mrs. Adams filed a bill in the court below against them both, to establish the deed as a settlement
made upon her by her husband, to compel a delivery of it
to her; to remove Appleton, the trustee named in it, and to
have some suitable person appointed trustee in his place.
The bill alleged the making of the indenture on the day
of its date, set forth the trusts as above given, appended a
copy of it as part of the bill, alleged the fact and place of
record of the original, and averred that the original indenture, after being duly signed, sealed, acknowledged, and delivered by the parties thereto, was recorded at the exclusive
expense and express instance and request of the husband,
Adams, who afterwards, as the friend of the complainant
and the agent of Appleton, the trustee, obtained possession
of the original, which was still in his custody or under his
control.

The bill further alleged the dissolution of the marriage by
law, and that the complainant, relying upon the provisions
of the deed referred to, neither sought nor obtained alimony
in that suit; and further, that she had accepted, and still
accepted the benefits of the trust; that Appleton declined to
act as trustee, to allow the use of his name, or in any way to
aid her in the matter; that her husband, the defendant, was
in possession, receiving the rents and profits, and declined
to acknowledge her rights in the premises.
Adams, the husband, after denying that the allegation of

ADAMS

v.

ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

the bill was true in manner and form as stated, answered as
follows:
"I admit that a certain indenture was made, but it never was
executed and delivered to the said Appleton, or to any other
person in his behalf, or to his use, either by myself or by any
person whatever. I never at any time intended to deliver said
deed so as to render it valid and effectual in law, but designedly
retained said deed in my own possession without any delivery
whatever.
"I admit that I placed said deed on record in the registry of
deeds of the county of Washington, and it never has been out
of my possession except for the time it was necessary to be
recorded.
"I admit and aver the fact to be that owing to the disturbed
and revolutionary character of the times and the threatened
condition of the city of Washington, and other contingencies
growing out of the state of war then existing, I caused said
deed to be made and partially executed, so that upon short
notice I could deliver it and make it effectual, or make such
other changes of the title as I might think proper growing out
of any changed circumstances, retaining, in the meantime, the
future control of the title to the same; that said deed was not
delivered to my then wife, nor did I intend to make it a settlement upon her; that I have kept and maintained possession of
the premises, making, in the meantime, extensive repairs and
improvements upon the property, paying the taxes and insurance, and collecting the rents issuing from the same, and I most
emphatically deny the existence of any such trust as the plaintiff, in her bill of complaint, alleges to exist and seeks the aid
of this court to enforce."
Appleton also answered, alleging that if any such deed as
described was executed, it was executed without his knowledge or consent; that no such deed was ever delivered to
him, and that he never accepted any trust imposed by it;
that he was never informed of the existence of the deed till
1870, when he was informed of it by the complainant, and
that he then declined to act as trustee.
Mrs. Adams, the complainant, was examined as a witness.
'he stated that the defendant told her that he wanted to

Oct. 1874.]

ADAMS

v.

ADAMS.

Statement of the case.

make over this house to her and her children, to be for their
sole and entire use while she lived and for the children after
her death. She stated further that she had entire confidence
in her husband, so much so that she never took the paper,
but left it in his possession, thinking that her interests were
perfectly safe in his hands; that she saw it frequently, and
that there was nothing to prevent her taking possession of
it; that this deed was a frequent subject of conversation between her husband and herself, and that he always spoke of
it as making the property over to her during her lifetime,
and to her children after her death, and that the deed was
always understood between them to be good and valid.
None of these statements were denied by Mr. Adams.
Testimony of the same character was given by other witnesses. One (the brother of the complainant) testified that
the defendant told him emphatically that the house and lot
was made over to the complainant as her property, as a provision for the support of herself and childten against accidents. This witness specified three different occasions on
which these statements were made, giving the details of the
conversations. The defendant made no denial of these
statements.
Another witness (a sister-in-law of the complainant) gave
testimony to the same purport, giving one conversation in
detail. No denial of her statements was made by the defendant.
There were no other witnesses. Neither of the defendants
testified.
The court below declared the trust valid and effective in
equity as between the parties; appointed a new trustee; required the husband to deliver up the deed to the wife or
to the new trustee; and to deliver also to him possession of
the premises described in the deed of trust, and to account
before the master for the rents and profits of it which had
accrued since the filing of the bill, receiving credit for any
payment made to the complainant in the meantime, and to
pay the complainant's costs of the suit.
From a decree accordingly, the husband appealed.

ADAMS

V. ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Messrs. T. J. D. Fullerand E. Lander,for the complanant;
Messrs. W. TV. Boyce and John Selden, contra.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question in this case is whether there was a delivery of the deed of August 13th, 1861. If not a formal
ceremonious delivery, was there a transaction which, between such parties and for such purposes as exist in the
present case, the law deems to be sufficient to create a title ?
The bill avers that the deed was delivered by the parties
and put on record in the way which it states.
The answer is responsive to the allegations in the plaintiff's bill that the deed, after being signed, sealed, and delivered, was recorded at the request of the defendant, Adams,
and at his expense.
The burden is thus imposed upon the plaintiff of maintaining her allegation by the proof required where a material
allegation in the bill is denied by the answer.
It is evident, however, that the apparent issues of fact and
seeming contradictions of statement become less marked by
looking at what the parties may suppose to constitute a delivery. That the defendant signed and sealed the deed he
admits. That with his wife, the present plaintiff, he acknowledged its execution before two justices of the peace,
and that the deed thus acknowledged by him not only purported by words in prtzsenti to grant, bargain, and convey the
premises mentioned, but declared that the same was signed,
sealed, and delivered, and that this deed, with these declarations in it, he himself put upon the record, is not denied.
If these facts constitute a delivery under circumstances like
the present, then the defendant, when he denies that a delivery was made, denies the law simply.
Mrs. Adams and two other witnesses were examined.
None of Mrs. Adams's statements are denied by Mr. Adams.
He was as competent to testify as she was. So, although
time, place, and circumstances are pointed out in the testimony of one of the other witnesses, the defendant makes no
denial of the statement; nor does he deny the statement

Oct. 1874.]

ADAMS

V. ADAMS.

Opinion of the court.

of the other witness giving her conversation with him, in
detail, in which she says that he admitted the trust.
The deed corresponded substantially with the intention
which these witnesses state that Adams expressed. Should
the property be sold by the order of Mrs. Adams, the money
received would be subject to the same trusts as the land, to
wit, for the use of Mrs. Adams during her lifetime and her
children after her death. It would not by such transmutation become the absolute property of Mrs. Adams.
Upon the evidence before us we have no doubt that the
deed was executed, acknowledged, and recorded by the defendant with the intent to make provision for his wife and
children; that he took the deed into his own possession
with the understanding, and upon the belief on his part,
that he had accomplished that purpose by acknowledging
and procuring the record of the deed, by showing the same

to his wife, informing her of its contents, and placing the
same in the house therein conveyed in a place equally accessible to her and to himself.
The defendant now seeks to repudiate what he then intended, and to overthrow what he then asserted and believed be had then accomplished.
It may be conceded, as a general rule, that delivery is
essential, both in law and in equity, to the validity of a gift,
whether of real or personal estate.* What constitutes a
delivery is a subject of great diference of opinion, some
cases holding that a parting with a deed, even for the purpose of recording, is in itself a delivery.t
It may be conceded also to have been held many times
that courts of equity will not enforce a merely gratuitous
gift or mere moral obligation.1
These concessions do not, however, dispose of the present
case.
1st. We are of opinion that the refusal of Appleton, in
1870, to accept the deed, or to act as trustee, is not a controlling circumstance.
* 12 Vesey, 89, and note, Antrobus v. Smith.
t Cloud v. Calhoun, 10 Richardson's Equity, 862.

: Ib.

.ADAMS

v).

ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Although a trustee may never have heard of the deed, the
title vests in him, subject to a disclaimer on his part.* Such
disclaimer will not, however, defeat the conveyance as a
transfer of the equitable interest to a third person.t A trust
cannot fail for want of a trustee, or by the refusal of all the
trustees to accept the trust. The court of chancery will
appoint new trustees.t
The case turns, rather, upon the considerations next to be
suggested.
2d. By the transactions already detailed, and by the declarations of Mr. Adams, already given, was there created a
trust which the parties benefited are entitled to have established by a court of chancery?
Mr. Lewin, in his work on Trusts,ยง thus gives the rules
on this subject:
"On a careful examination the rule appears to be, that
whether there was transmutation of possession or not, the
trust will be supported, provided it was in the first instance perfectly created. . . . It is evident that a trust is not
perfectly created where there is a mere intention or voluntary agreement to establish a trust, the settlor himself contemplating some further act for the purpose of giving it
completion. . . . If the settlor propose to convert himself
into a trustee, then the trust is perfectly created, and will be
enforced so soon as the settlor has executed an express declaration of trust, intended to be final and binding upon him,
and in this case it is immaterial whether the nature of the
property be legal or equitable. . . . Where the settlor purposes to make a stranger the trustee, then, to ascertain whether a valid trust has been created or not, we must take the
following distinctions: If the subject of the trust be a legal
interest and one capable of legal transmutation, as land, or
chattels, &c., the trust is not perfectly created unless the
legal interest be actually vested in the trustee."
* Cloud v. Calhoun, 10 Richardson's Equity, 362.

t Lewin on Trusts, 152; King v. Donnelly, 5 Paige, 46.
J Page 55, 4th edition, 1861.

1b.

Oct. 1874.]

ADAMS

V. ADAMS.

Opinion of the court.

To these positions numerous authorities are cited by the
learned author.
In the case before us the settlor contemplated no further
act to give completion to the deed. It was not an intention
simply to create a trust. He had done all that was needed.
With his wife he sig-ned and sealed the deed. With her he
acknowledged it before the proper officers, and himself
caused it to be recorded in the appropriate office. He retained it in his own possession, but where it was equally
under her dominion. He declared openly and repeatedly to
her, and to her brothers and sisters, that it was a completed
provision for her, and that she was perfectly protected by
it. He intended what he had done to be final and binding
upon him. Using the name of his friend as trustee he made
the placing the deed upon record and keeping the same
under the control-of his wife as well as himself, a delivery
to the trustee for the account of all concerned,* or he intended to make himself a trustee by actions final and .binding upon himself.
Adopting the principles laid down by Mr. Lewin, the
plaintiff has established her case.
Mr. Hill, in his work on Trusts, lays down the rule in
these words, in speaking of a voluntary disposition in trust:
"The fact that the deed remains in the possession of the
party by whom it is executed, and that it is not acted upon,
or is even subsequently destroyed, will not affect its validity,
unless there are some other circumstances connected with
the transaction which would render it inequitable to enforce
its performance."
To this he cites many authorities. After quoting many
other cases, the author adds :t
"It would seem to follow from the foregoing decisions
that the court will in no case interfere to enforce the performance of a voluntary trust against its author if the legal
interest in the property be not transferred or acquired as
part of the transaction creating the trust. The doctrine of
* Cloud v. Calhoun, 10 Richardson's Equity, 862.
13
VOL. XXI.

- Page 186.

ADAMS V. ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

the court however does not, in fact, appear to be so confined.
If a formal declaration of trust be made by the legal owner
of the property declaring himself in terms the trustee of that
property for a volunteer, or directing that it shall be held
in trust for the volunteer, the court will consider such a
declaration as a trust actually created and will act upon it
as such."
The author says again:
"It will be seen that it is difficult to define with accuracy
the law affecting this subject. The writer conceives that
he is warranted in stating the following propositions to be
the result of the several decisions: 1. Where the author of
a trust is possessed of the legal interest in the property, a
clear declaration of trust contained in or accompanying a
deed or act which passes the legal estate will create a perfect
executed trust, and will be established against its author and
all subsequent volunteers claiming under him. 2. A clear
declaration or direction by a party'that the property shall
be held in trust for the objects of his bounty, though unaccompanied by a deed or other act divesting himself of the
legal estate, is an executed trust, and will be enforced against
the party himself, or representatives, or next of kin after his
death."
Upon the principles laid down by this author the plaintiff's case is made out.
It will be necessary to refer to a few only of the American authorities.
In Bunn v. Winthrop,* which was the case of a voluntary
trust created in certain real estate in the city of New York,
Chancellor Kent says:
"The instrument is good as a voluntary settlefiient, though
retained by the grantor in his possession until his death.
There was no act of his at the time or subsequent to the
execution of the deed which denoted an intention contrary
to the face of the deed. The cases of Claveringv. Clavering,t
* 1 Johnson's Chancery, 329.
t 2 Vernon, 473; 1 Brown's Parliamentary Cases, 122.

Oct. 1874.]

ADAMS

v.

ADAMS.

Opinion of the court.

of Boughton v. Boughton,* and of Johnson v. Boyfieldt I had
occasion lately to consider in the case of Souverbye v. Arden,

and they will be found to be authorities in favor of the va.
lidity and operation of deeds of settlement, though retained
by the grantor under circumstances much less favorable to
their effect than the one now under consideration."
In Souverbye v. Arden,$ which was a bill against the father
to enforce a voluntary settlement of real estate upon the
daughter, made by the father and by the mother, then deceased, the same learned judge says:
"If we recur to the adjudged cases and the acknowledged
rules of law on this subject, they will be found in favor of
the valid operation of this deed, whether the actual delivery
was to the plaintiff or to her mother (the mother being one
of the grantors). This is much stronger, and attended with
more circumstances of a due delivery, than Shellon's .Case.ยง
In that case a deed was sealed in the presence of the grantee
and others, and was read, but not delivered, nor .did the
grantee take it, but it was left behind in the same place, and
yet in the opinion of all the justices it was a goodgrant; for
the parties came together for that purpose, and performed
all that was requisite for perfecting it except an actual delivery; being left behind, and not countermanded, it was
held to be a delivery in law. In the ancient authorities, and
at a time when the execution of deeds was subjected to great
formality and strictness, it was admitted that if A. execute
a deed to 13., and deliver it to ,C., though he does not say
to the use of B., yet it is a good delivery to B., if he accepts
of it, and it shall be intended that C. took the deed for him
as his servant. .... A voluntary settlement, fairly made, is
always binding in equity upon the grantor, .unless there be
clear and decisive proof that he never parted, nor intended
to part, with the possession of the deed; and even if he retains it, the weight of authority is decidedly in favor of its
validity, unless there be other circumstances beside the mere
* 1 Atkyns, 625.

1 Johnson's Chancery, .255.

'

1 Vesey, Jr. 814.
t Croke Eiz. 7.

196

GARRISON

V. CITY

OF NEW Yonx.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

fact of his retaining it, to show it was not intended to be
absolute. This will appear from an examination of a few
of the strongest cases on each side of the question."
He then goes into an examination of the decided cases, for
which it is only necessary to refer to the case itself.*
The defence rests upon the alleged non-delivery by Mr.
Adams of the deed of August 13th, 1861, to Mrs. Adams,
or for her benefit. We have referred at length to the authorities which show that as matter of law the deed was
sufficiently delivered, and that it is the duty of the court to
establish the trust.
We think that the decree of the court below was well
made, and that it should be
AFFIRMED.

GARRISON v. THE CITY OF NEW YORK.
1. An act of the legislature of the State of New York, passed in 1871, in
relation to the widening and straightening of Broadway, in the city of
New York, authorizing the Supreme Court of the State to vacate an
order made in 1870 confirming the report of commissioners of estimate
and assessment respecting the property taken, from which order no appeal was allowable, if error, mistake, irregularity, or illegal acts appeared in the proceedings of the commissioners, or the assessments for
benefit or the awards for damage, or either of them, had been unfair
and unjust or inequitable or oppressive as respects the city or any person
affected thereby, and to refer the matter back to new commissioners to
amend or correct the report, or to make a new assessment, is not unconstitutional as impairing the obligation of contracts, or depriving a person of a vested right without due process of law.
2. In the proceeding to condemn property for public use, there is nothing in
the nature of a contract between the owner and the State, or the corporation which the State in virtue of her right of eminent domain authorizes to take the property; all that the constitution of the State or
of the United States or justice requiring in such cases being that a just
compensation shall be made to the owner; his property can then be
taken without his assent.
That the deed in question created a trust, executed and complete, which
will be enforced by the courts; see, also, Neves v. Scott, 9 Howard, 196;
Same case, 13 Id. 271.

