294

DECATUR BANK V. ST.

Louis

[Sup. Ct.

BANK.

Statement of the case.

within the meaning of the rule which makes the decree bind
parties purchasing pendente lite.
The decree awarding the writ must, therefore, be REVERSED, and the cause remanded to the court below with
directions to
DISMISS THE PETITION OF THE PURCHASER.

DECATUR BANK V.

ST.

Louis

BANK.

1. A bank at Decatur, Illinois, accredited B. with a bank at St. Louis, Mis.
souri, saying that "his drafts against shipments of cattle to the extent of
$10,000 are hereby guaranteed." Held, that hegs were included within
the term cattle, and that B.'s drafts against shipments of hogs not having
been paid, the Bank of Decatur was responsible on its letter of credit.
2. Though there may be plain error in a charge, yet if the record present to
this court the whole case, and it be plain from such whole case that if
the court had charged rightly the result of the trial would have been
the same as it was, this court will not reverse.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of

Illinois.
In the autumn and winter of 1869, P. E. Frederick-who,
according to his own account, was at that time "engaged in
buying and shipping stock in St. Louis "-intending to purchase cattle there and ship-them to a business connection of
his in Chicago, named J. S. Talmadge, who was to receive
and sell them, and honor Frederick's drafts given in payment for the same-applied to the First National Bank of
Decatur, Illinois, for a letter of credit on some bank in St.
Louis. The bank at Decatur accordingly gave him a letter
on its correspondent, the Home Savings Bank of St. Louis.
The letter was in these words:
FIRST NATIONAL

BANK,

DECATUR, ILL., September 13th, 1869.

H. C. PIERCE, ESQ.,
Cashier, St. Louis, Mo.

SIR: We beg herewith to accredit with you P. E. Fredevick, Esq , whose drafts on shipments of cattle to J. S. Talmadge,

Oct. 1874.]

DECATUR BANK V. ST.

Louis BANK.

295

Statement of the case.

Chicago, are herewith guaranteed to the amount of ten thousand
dollars for thirty days from date.
Yours respectfully,

T. H. LIVINGSTON.
Pierce answered thus:
HomE SAVixGs BAxr,

ST. Louis, September 18th, 1869.

J. it. LIVINQSTON, ESQ.,

Cashier.
DEAR SIR: Ar. Frederick has to-day presented your letter of
credit for $10,000 of 13th at thirty days. Permit me to inquire,
in case his drafts for $10,000 or less on Talmadge are paid, does
your letter mean that we may take his draft again up to same
amount, and so on for your limit, thirty days? That is to say,
do you guarantee us for thirty days on Frederick's drafts on
Talmadge for $10,000?
Yours respectfully,

If. C. PIERCE,
Cashier.

And on the 21st of September, 1869, the cashier of the
Decatur bank replied as follows, viz.:
FIRST NATIONAL BA.fx,

H. 0. PIERCE, ESQ.,

DECATUR, ILL., September 21st, 1869.

Cashier, St. Louis, Mo.
DEAR SIR: Your favor of the 18th is received. Yes, we guarantee you on Frederick's drafts on Talmadge for $10,000 for
thirty days from September 13th, 1869.
Yours respectfully,
5. H. LivINGSTON.
The thirty days limited in the last letter being on the eve
of expiration, the Illinois bank renewed and extended its
guarantee by the following communication, viz.:
FIRST 1NTATxowAL BAwx,

H. C. PIERCE, ESQ.,

DECAATu,

ILL., October 20th, 1869.

Cashier, St. Louis, Mo.
DEAR Sm: The guarantee given for Mr. Frederick, please con-

sider extended for thirty days from expiration.
Yours, &c.,

J. H.

LiviNGSTON.

296

DECATUR BANK V. ST. Louis BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease.

And again, when the limit fixed by the last letter had expired :
FIRST NATIONAL
BANK,

H. C.

DECATUR, ILL., November 22d, 1869.
PIERCE, ESQ.,
Cashier, St. Louis, Mo.

SIR: The letter of credit given you for Mr. Frederick is hereby

extended for thirty days from expiration last date.
Respectfully,
J. R. LIVINGSTON,
Cashier.

Accredited with the letters thus given, Frederick went to
St. Louis, and-having just previously to the 10th of December, 1869 (that is to say, within the term embraced by
the letter of November the 22d), shipped hogs to his correspondent at Chicago, Talmadge-drew drafts to the amount
of $8000 against them. Talmadge failed before the drafts
came due; and the bank at St. Louis now came upon the
bank at Decatur for payment under the guarantee. This
latter bank set up that its guarantee was of drafts drawn
against shipments of cattle, and that the drafts sued on were
against shipments of hogs, and that these were not cattle,
which term, as understood in the transaction, was confined
to animals of the bovine species. The Decatur bank did
not allege that any injury had accrued to it by the fact that
the shipment was of hogs, which would not have accrued if
the shipment had been of animals of the bovine species; or
that there was any want of good faith on the part of the St.
Louis bank or of Frederick in the transaction.
There was also a plea:
"And for a further plea, &c., the defendant says actio non, because, it says, that it is not true that the defendant, by its cashier,
executed the alleged letters of credit, or written guarantee, or
any of the same in said counts mentioned and described; and this
the defendant prays may be inquired of by the country, &c."
iBut this plea was apparently abandoned.
The court below charged "that the contract of guarantee
was contained in the letter of J. H. Livingston, dated September

Oct. 1874.]

DECATUR BANK V.

ST. Louis BANK.

297

Argument for the Decatur Bank.

21st, 1869, and the extension thereof, and that the defendant
would be bound to pay drafts drawn by Frederick upon
Talmadge within the limits of the said letter and the extensions thereof, as to time and amount, no matter whether such
drafts were drawn upon shipments of cattle or not." To this instruction the defendant excepted, and verdict and judgment
having been given for the plaintiff the defendant brought
the cas6 here. The bill of exceptions set out all the evidence in the case.
Mr. J. B. Hawley, for the plaintiff in error:
It is obvious that the court erred in assuming that the
letter of September 21st made the credit. That letter plainly
refers to the original letter-the letter of the 13th-and explains a doubt which was in the mind of the cashier of the
St. Louis bank as to whether, by its terms, the guarantee
was a continuing guarantee; but the new letter in no way
abandons the old one. Now, that letter shows that the Decatur bank regarded it as important that the drafts to be
drawn by Frederick should be drawn upon shipments of
cattle. Hogs do not, in the parlance of stockdealers or of
banks familiar with the trade of that sort of persons, as
both the banks here were, or in fact in any common parlance
of anybody, come within the term "cattle." It is of no use
to cite books of natural history or of lexicography, or even
to cite statutes and decisions to show that in certain senses
hogs may be included within the term "cattle." The question is, what did the parties here before the court mean?
And no one familiar with the language of the region where
the transactions occurred, or of the country generally, will
suppose that when thb parties spoke of cattle they meant
hogs, any more than that they meant deer.
The Decatur bank having consented to be bound only in
case cattle were shipped, no liability attaches to it if they
were not shipped. Talmadge may have had great facilities
for dealing in "cattle," and none at all in dealing in hogs.
Again: There is nothing to be found in the National
Currency Act, or in any other law, giving authority to la-

298

DECATUR BANK V. ST. Lomis BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tional banks to issue letters of credit. They have power to
exercise "all such incidental powers as shall be necessary
to carry on the business of banking; by.discounting and
negotiating promissory notes, drafts, bills of exchange and
other evidences of debt; by receiving deposits; by buying
and selling exchange, coin, and bullion; by loaning money
on personal security; by obtaining, issuing, and circulating
notes according to the provisions of this act."*
Among these powers the power to issue letters of credit
is not found, neither is it incidental to any of the powers
granted.
Mr. F. W. Jones, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The basis of this suit is the letter of credit of 13th September, 1869. The subsequent correspondence, on any rational
interpretation of it, did not have the effect to change the
terms of this the original letter, nor was it intended to do
so except in two particulars, which are not the subject of
controversy.
The defence now made, technical though it be, is sufficient
to defeat the action if the condition of the guarantee was not
observed, and this fact renders necessary a construction of
the instrument.
Like all other contracts it must receive the construction
which is most probable and natural under the circumstances,
so as to attain the object which the parties to it had in contemplation in making it. Frederick was engaged in buying
and shipping stock in St. Louis during the fall and winter
of 1869, and the presumption is, in the absence of any evidence on the point, that he resided in Decatur, where the
plaintiff in error had its place of business. At any rate, he
was unknown in St. Louis, without either money or credit,
and, as he could not carry on his business without money,
it was necessary that he should be accredited to some re* Act of June 3d, 1864,

11, 12 Stat. at Large, 668.

Oct. 1874.]

DECATUR BANK V. ST.

Louis BANK.

299

Opinion of the court.

sponsible banking house in that city. This was done through
the letter of credit of 13th September. The bank to which
this letter was addressed doubtless thought its correspondent trusted in some degree to the pecuniary responsibility
of Frederick, but it had no right to suppose that the letter
of credit was given solely on this account. On the contrary,
the letter is based on the idea that shipments of stock would
protect the drafts. If Frederick was responsible, still the
Decatur bank did not trust to this alone, but relied on the
security which was to accompany the drafts. This it had a
right to do, and its conduct was very natural under the circumstances. Indeed, the business in which Frederick was
engaged is usually conducted in this manner. The Decatur
bank doubtless believed, and acted on the belief, that the
stock would sell for enough to pay the drafts, and if it did
not, the loss would be inconsiderable and such as Frederick
could readily meet.
It now seeks to escape liability, not on the ground that
stock sufficient to secure the drafts was not shipped, but that
it was a different sort of stock from that named in its letter.
It is fair to presume that an investment in hogs yielded as
good a return as an investment in cattle, and if the consignee in Chicago had not failed, that no trouble would have
arisen. As this consignee, named by it, and with whom the
St. Louis bank had no concern, did fail, it seeks to throw
the loss on the St. Louis bank because it interpreted the
letter to embrace shipments of hogs as well as neat cattle.
The question then arises, was this interpretation correct?
That stock of some kind formed part of the guarantee is
quite plain, but is the word "cattle" in this connection to
be confined to neat cattle alone, that is, cattle of the bovine
genus? It is often so applied, but it is "also a collective
name for domestic quadrupeds generally, including not only
the bovine tribe, but horses, asses, mules, sheep, goats, and
swine."* In its limited sense it is used to designate the different varieties of horned animals, but it is also frequently
* Worcester's Dictionary, in verbo, "Cattle."

DECATUR BANK V. ST.

Louis BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

used with a broader signification as embracing animals in
general which serve as food for man. In England, even in
a criminal case, where there is a greater strictness of construction than in a civil controversy, pigs were held to be
included within the words "any cattle."* And in other cases
in that country involving life and liberty the word has been
construed so as to embrace animals not used for food.t
Did the Decatur bank use the word in its narrow and restricted meaning or in its more enlarged and general sense?
In other words, did it intend to restrict Frederick to the
dealing in horned animals alone, and so confine the defendant in error to drafts based on this kind of stock?
There was no apparent motive for doing so. Clearly, security was the object to be attained, and this was better attained by leaving Frederick unrestricted in the choice of
Animals to send forward to market, provided they were of
the kind generally used for food. It is well known that the
market varies at the Chicago cattle-yards. At certain times
hogs have a readier sale and bring better prices than other
kinds of stock, and at other times horned animals alone
command the attention of buyers. Every prudent dealer in
stock informs himself of the state of the market before purchasing, and the means of doing this are greatly multiplied
in later years.
That Frederick pursued this course, and bought and sold
according to the indications of the Chicago market, would
seem clear from the evidence, for he says he was engaged in
buying and shipping stock in St. Louis during the fall and
winter of 1869. If his operations, except in the single instance on which the drafts in suit are based, were confined
to horned stock, why did he not say so? If true, it would
have strengthened the defence, because it would have shown
that all the dealings between Frederick and the defendant
in error, with a single exception, were based on shipments
of stock of the bovine genus. These dealings were continued
* Rex v. Chapple, Russell & Ryan, Crown Cases, 77.

t Rex v. Whitney, Moody's Crown Cases, 3; Paty's Case, 2 W. Black
atone, 721; Rex v. Mott, 2 East, Pleas of the Crown, 1074-6.

Oct. 1874.]

DECATUR

BANK V. ST. Louis BANK.

801

Opinion of the court.

through a period of three months by the renewals of the
guarantee, and could not have been infrequent. It would
seem, therefore, that the parties in St. Louis dealt with each
other on the understanding that the guarantee embraced the
different kinds of stock which are used for food, and usually
sent for that purpose to the Chicago market.
They had the right to give this construction to it, and
there is nothing in the evidence tending to show that the
plaintiff in error understood it differently, except that the
word "cattle," as often used, does not include hogs. But it
would be a narrow rule to hold that this word was used in
its restricted sense, in the absence of any evidence, other
than inferential, on the subject. Especially is this so when
the word is susceptible of a different meaning, and important transactions have been based on the idea that it was employed in its enlarged and not in its restricted sense.
This construction of the letter of credit disposes of the
case and affirms the judgment.
It is true, the judge of the Circuit Court instructed the
jury that the letter of September 21st, which leaves out the
terms "on shipments of cattle," constituted the contract of
guarantee between the plaintiff and defendant, but the result
would have been the same if he had charged the jury, as we
are of the opinion that he should have done, that the rights
of the parties were to be determined by the terms of the
original letter of credit of the 13th September.
In either aspect of the case the judgment must have been
for the plaintiff below, and to warrant the reversal of a judg.
ment there must be not only error found in the record, but
the error must be such as may have worked injury to the
party complaining.*
The bill of exceptions contains all the evidence in the case,
and though the jury may have found their verdict on a wrong
theory of the case, yet as the court can see that the verdict
was correct, the plaintiff in error is not harmed by the misdirection of the judge. The result is right, although the
manner of reaching it may have been wrong.
* Brobst v. Brock, 10 Wallace, 519.

JENNISONS V. LEONARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

It was urged at the bar that National banks are not authorized to issue letters of credit, and if so, that th e action
cannot be sustained. But the record does not raise the
question, and it cannot, therefore, be considered. It is true
a plea was interposed which was doubtless meant to raise it,
on which, issue to the country was tendered, but for aught
that appears it was abandoned.
No evidence was offered under it, but if this were not
necessary the attention of the court at least should have been
called to it, and proper instructions asked. If refused, error
could have been assigned, and the point would then have
been properly before the court for decision.
Nothing of the kind was done, and it is too late to raise
the question now.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

JENNISONS V. LEONARD.
1. When, under the act of March 3d, 1865, authorizing the parties to sub
mit their case to the court for trial without the intervention of a jury,
there have been no exceptions to rulings in the course of the trial and
the court has found the facts specially and given judgment on them, the
only question which this court can pass upon, is the sufficiency of the
facts found to support the judgment. Any propositions of law stated by
the court as having been held by it in entering its judgment, are not
open to exception.
2. Where A. agreed to sell timber lands to B. (the chief or only value of the
lands being their timber), for a large sum, payable in three annual instalments, B. agreeing to cut not less than so much timber a year, the
value of which timber when cut, it was supposed, would be about enough
to pay the said purchase-money, and to make monthly payments at the
rate of a certain sum for each thousand feet cut, with an agreement that
if in any year the monthly payments on the basis of the timber cut,
taken together, fell short of the annual instalment due, B. would make
up the deficiency, with the further agreement that B. should have possession, use, and enjoyment of the lands from the date of the agreement
to sell, and should pay all taxes so long as he should continue in possession of them for the purposes of the agreement, and that A., on B.'s
making full payment with interest in the manner specified, would convey to him the lands in fee,-in such case it must be assumed that the

