YONLEY V. LAVENDER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

YONLEY V. LAVENDER.
Where a statute of a State places the whole estate, real and personal, of a
decedent within the custody of the Probate Court of the county, so that
the assets may be fairly and equally distributed among creditors, without distinction as to whether resident or non-resident, a non-resident
creditor may get a judgment in a Federal court against the resident executor or administrator, and come in on the estate according to the law
of the State for such payment as that law, marshalling the rights of
creditors, awards to debtors of his class. But he cannot because he has
obtained a judgment in the Federal court, issue execution and take
precedence of other creditors who have no right to sue in the Federal
courts; and if he do issue execution and sell lands, the sale is void.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Arkansas; the case being
thus:
By the constitution and laws of Arkansas the probate of
wills and the grant of letters testamentary and of administration, are matters wholly within the jurisdiction of the
Probate Court. One statute thus enacts:
"All actions commenced against any executor or administrator
after the death of the testator or intestate, shall be considered
demands legally exhibited against such estate from the time of
serving the original process on the executor or administrator,
and shall be classed accordingly.*
"All demands against any estate shall be paid by the executor
or administrator in the order in which they are classed; and no
demand of one class shall be paid until the claims of all previous
classes are satisfied; and if there be not sufficient to pay the
whole of any one class, such demands shall be paid in proportion to their amounts, which apportionment shall be made by the
Court of Probate."

Under this statute, the courts of Arkansas have decided,t that the legal effect of granting letters testamentary
or of administration is to place the whole estate, real and
personal, within the custody of the law, and leave it there
* Gould's Digest, chapter 4, H 101, 120.

t Hornor v. Hanks, 22 Arkansas, 672; Yonley v. Lavender, 27 Id. 252.

Oct. 1874.]

YONLEY V. LAVENDER.
Statement of the cas-.

until the administration has been completed; that in this
way the assets are preserved, so that there may be a fair and
equal division of them among the several creditors, according to a scale of priority fixed by law, there being no distinction between resident and non-resident creditors; that
all demands against deceased persons, which are not liens
upon specific property before the death of the debtor, can
only be collected by being brought under the administration
of the Probate Court, and that while it is true that the debtor
is not compelled to resort to the Probate Court to settle the
existence of his debt, but may, by suit in any court of competent jurisdiction, obtain judgment on it, the effect of this
judgment is to establish the demand against the estate, and
to remit it to the Probate Court for classification by the administrator and payment under the order of the court, either
in whole or in part, according to the rule under which the
rights of creditors are marshalled; that it cannot be enforced
in the ordinary mode, by execution, as if rendered against
a living person. "If it could be "-say the courts of Arkansas-" the statutory provision relating to all estates, whether
solvent or insolvent, 'that all demands against estates shall
be paid by the executor or administrator in the order in
which they are classed,' and 'that no demand of any class
shall be paid until the claims of all previous classes are
satisfied,' would be rendered of no effect, and the whole
policy of the law on the subject defeated."
Such being the law of the State in respect to judgments
obtained against the estates of deceased persons in the courts
of the State, the inquiry in the present case was whether a
different rule was to be applied to judgments of the Federal
courts. This present case was thus:
One Du Bose, having lands in the'county of Arkansas, in
the State of that name, died in October, 1869, and a certain
lHalleburton was appointed the administrator of his estate.
Halleburton did nothing in the way of discharging his duty.
He took no account of debts and assets, did not convert the
property into money, and at the end of three years, the term
which a statute in Arkansas, governing the subject, pre-

YONLEY v. LAVENDER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the sale.

scribes as that when the administrator ought to have his
estate settled, things remained as he had found them. Hereupon, a certain Lavender was appointed administrator de
bonis non in his place.
In this state of things, Auguste Gautier, a citizen of Louisiana, brought suit in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Arkansas against Lavender as
administrator, obtained judgment against him, and, at a sale
under an execution issued on this judgment, one Yonley,
who seems to have been the attorney of record, bought certain lands belonging to the estate of Du Bose, situate in Arkansas County, in the State of the same name. These proceedings took place several years after the administration
of Du Bose's estate had commenced, and while it was being
carried on in Arkansas County under the administration laws
of the State. Shortly after Yonley purchased the land he
brought an action of ejectment in the proper State court to
dispossess the administrator, which resulted adversely to
him, and the Supreme Court of the State, on appeal, affirmed
the judgment of the lower court. It was to revise this judgment that the present writ of error was brought.
M1r. W. M. Bose, for the plaintiff in error:
The jurisdiction of the Federal court to render the judgment cannot be denied, and that jurisdiction being granted,
its process, issued for the purpose of enforcing the judgment, was valid.
A leading case is Boyle v. Zacharie.* Story, J., there said:
"Writs and executions issuing from the courts of the United
States, in virtue of these provisions, are not controlled or
controllable in their general operation and effect by any collateral regulations and restrictions which the State laws have
imposed upon State courts to govern them in the actual use,
suspension, or superseding of them. Such regulations and restrictions are exclusively addressed to the State tribunals, and
have no efficacy in the courts of the United States, unless
adopted by them."
* 6 Peters, 658.

Oct. 1874.]

YONLEY V. LAVENDER.
Opinion of the court.

And this doctrine is declared in numerous cases* since.
Payne v. .ook,t seems conclusive in the matter.
Mr. A. E. Garland,contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The several States of the Union necessarily have full control over the estates of deceased persons within their respective limits, and we see no ground on which the validity of
the sale in question can be sustained. To sustain it would
be in effect to nullify the administration laws of the State
by giving to creditors out of the State greater privileges in
the distribution of estates than creditors in the State enjoy.
It is easy to see, if the non-resident creditor, by suing in the
Federal courts of Arkansas, acquires a right to subject the
assets of the estate to seizure and sale for the satisfaction of
his debt, which he could not do by suing in the State court,
that the whole estate, in case there were foreign creditors,
might be swept away. Such a result would place the judgments of the Federal court on a higher grade than the judgments of the State court, necessarily produce conflict, and
render the State powerless in a matter over which she has
confessedly full control. Besides this it would give to the
contract of a foreign creditor made in Arkansas a wider
scope than a similar contract made in the same State by the
same debtor with a home creditor. The home creditor
would have to await the due course of administration for
the payment of his debt, while the foreign creditor could, as
soon as he got his judgment, seize and sell the estate of his
debtor to satisfy it, and this, too, when the laws of the State
in force when both contracts were made provided another
mode for the compulsory payment of the debt. Such a difference is manifestly unjust and cannot be supported. There
is no question here about the regulation of process by the
State to the injury of the party suing in the Federal court.
* Suydam v. Broadnax, 14 Peters, 75; Hyde v. Stone, 20 Howard, 175;

Shelby v. Bacon, 10 Id. 70; Riggs v. Johnson County, 6 Wallace, 187.
t 7 Wallace, 429.

280

YONLEY v. LAVENDER.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

The question is whether the United States courts can execute judgment against the estates of deceased persons in the
course of administration in the States, contrary to the declared law of the State on the subject. If they can, the
rights of those interested in the estate who are citizens of
the State where the administration is conducted are materially changed, and the limitation which governs them does
not apply to the fortunate creditor who happens to be a citizen of another State. This cannot be so. The administration laws of Arkansas are not merely rules of practice for
the courts, but laws limiting the rights of parties, and will
be observed by the Federal courts in the enforcement of individual rights. These laws, on the death of Du Bose and
the appointment of his administrator, withdrew the estate
from the operation of the execution laws of the State and
placed it in the hands of a trustee for the benefit of creditors
and distributees. It was thereafter in contemplation of law
in the custody of the Probate Court, of which the administrator was an officer, and during the progress of administration was not subject to seizure and sale by any one. The
recovery of judgment gave no prior lien on the property,
but simply fixed the status of the party and compelled the
administrator to recognize it in the payment of debts. It
would be out of his power to perform the duties with which
he was charged by law if the property intrusted to him by
a court of competent jurisdiction could be taken from him
and appropriated to the payment of a single creditor to the
injury of all others. How can he account for the assets of
the estate to the court from which he derived his authority
if another court can interfere and take them out of his
hands? The lands in controversy were assets in the administrator's hands to pay all the debts of the estate, and the
law prescribed the manner of their sale and the distribution
of the proceeds. He held them for no other purpose, and it
would be strange indeed if State power was not competent
to regulate the mode in which the assets of a deceased person should be sold and distributed.
This case falls within the principle decided by this court in

Oct. 1874.]

O 4ONLEY

V. LAVENDER.

Opinion of the court.

Williams v. Benedict et al.* In Mississippi the Orphans' Court
has jurisdiction only over the estate of a deceased person
in case it turns out to be insolvent, when it audits the claims
against the estate, directs the sale of the property, and distributes the proceeds equally among all the creditors. Before the adjudication of insolvency by the Orphans' Court
Benedict had obtained a judgment against Williams, the
administrator of one Baldwin, in the District Court for the
Northern District of Mississippi, and levied an execution on
property upon which the judgment would have been a lien
if the estate had not been insolvent. On a bill filed by the
administrator to enjoin the execution, it was insisted among
other things that the proceedings in the Orphans' Court were
no bar to the proceedings in the United States court, and so
the district judge thought, but this court held otherwise, and
decided "that the jurisdiction of the Orphans' Court had
attached to the assets; that they were in gremio legis, and
could not be seized by process from another court." And
the court say that "if the marshal were permitted to seize
them under an execution, it would not only cause manifest
injustice to be done to the rights of others, but be the occasion of an unpleasant conflict between courts of separate
and independent jurisdiction."
If the Orphans' Court of Mississippi, whose jurisdiction
attaches on the ascertained insolvency of an estate, is saved
from the interference of another court, surely the Probate
Court of Arkansas, vested with jurisdiction on the death of
the testator or intestate, whether the estate be solvent or insolvent, is entitled to equal protection.
It is true that the court in Williams v. Benedict expressly
reserve the question whether State legislatures can in all
cases compel foreign creditors to seek their remedy against
the estates of deceased persons in the State courts, to the
exclusion of the jurisdiction of the Federal courts, but these
remarks were made, not to express a doubt of the correctness of the decision in the case before the court, but to
* 8 Howard, 107.

YONLEY v. LAVENDER.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

guard the rights of suitors in the courts of the United States,
if a case should arise where State legislation had discriminated against them. It is possible, though not probable,
that State legislation on the subject of the estates of decedents might be purposely framed so as to discriminate injuriously against the creditor living outside of the State; but
if this should unfortunately ever happen the courts of the
United States would find a way, in a proper case, to arrest
the discrimination, and to enforce equality of privileges
among all classes of claimants, even if the estate were seized
by operation of law and intrusted to a particular jurisdiction. The legislation of Arkansas on this subject, instead
of being unfriendly, is wise and just. All creditors are
placed upon an equitable foundation, and judgments obtained in the courts of the United States have the same effect
as judgments obtained in the courts of the State. The law
simply places the assets beyond the reach of ordinary process, for the equal benefit of all persons interested in them,
and all that is asked is that the construction of this law
adopted by the State tribunals shall be the rule of decision
in the Federal courts. The Federal court in Arkansas, in
entertaining the suit of Gautier, recognized the power of
the State to appoint an administrator and hold him responsible for the proper administration of the estate. If so, how
can it reject the authority of the State to distribute the
estate in accordance with a scale applicable to all creditors
alike?
There is no difference in principle on the point we are
considering between the administration and the insolvent
laws of a State. In the case of the Bank of Tennessee v.
Horn,* this court held that by the law of Louisiana the
estate of the insolvent vested in the creditors, to be administered by the syndic, as their trustee, and that an execution
issued on a judgment obtained in the Circuit Court of the
United Statts for the Eastern District of Louisiana, after the
cession had been accepted and the syndic appointed by the
* 17 Howard, 160.

Oct. 1874.]

YONLEY V. LAvrENDER.
Opinion of the court.

creditors, could not be levied on the property of the insolvent, although the suit was pending when the proceedings
in insolvency were begun. The property had been seized
by the operation of the law of the State, and was being administered for the benefit of creditors, and when the bank
obtained a judgment the insolvent had no interest in the
property subject to levy and sale. So in this case the law
vested the assets of Du Bose's estate in a trustee, to be administered and sold for the benefit of creditors and distributees, and when the judgment was rendered against the
administrator, the assets being held by him solely in his
character as trustee, were no more subject to seizure and
sale than they were when held by the trustee of an insolvent
estate.
The point decided in Payne v. Hook, relied upon by the
plaintiff in error, does not touch the question at issue. The
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Missouri, sitting as a court of chancery, as an incident to its
power to enforce trusts, took jurisdiction of a bill filed by
Mrs. Payne to compel the administrator of her brother's
estate to account and distribute the assets in his hands.
It was contended, as the complainant, were she a citizen
of Missouri, could only obtain relief through the local Court
of Probate, that she had no better right because of her citizenship in Virginia; but this court held that the equity j urisdiction conferred on the Federal courts is the same that
the High Court of Chancery in England possesses; is subject to neither limitation nor restraint by State legislation,
and that a bill stating a case for equitable relief, according
to the received principles of equity, would be sustained,
although the court of the State, having general chancery
powers, would not entertain it. The bill charged gross misconduct on the part of the administrator, and one of its
main objects was to obtain relief against these fraudulent
proceedings. This relief was granted, and the administrator
compelled faithfully to carry out the trust reposed in him,
and to pay to the complainant the distributive share of the
estate of her brother, according to the laws of Missouri.

BAILEY V.

CLARK.

[sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

No greater rights in the estate were adjudged to her than
were secured by the law of the State, and if she had been
a creditor, instead of a distributee, and sought to obtain a
preference over a local creditor, we think it safe to say her
bill would have been dismissed. The powers of courts of
equity are not in issue in the present suit, nor is there any
question presented about restraining or limiting them.
The laws of Arkansas required an administrator to make
final settlement of his administration within three years
from the date of his letters. The administrator of Du Bose
not only failed to discharge this duty, but neglected even to
convert the assets of the estate into money, in order to pay
debts. Gautier was not compelled to resort to the local Probate Court to secure the performance of these obligations,
but could, had he chosen, hiave invoked the equity powers
of the Circuit Court for the District of Arkansas, to obtain
a suitable measure of redress. This he could have obtained
in less time than it has taken to conduct this litigation; but
this measure of redress would only have placed him on an
equality with other creditors, as prescribed by the laws of
Arkansas. It would in no event have diverted the assets,
so that his debt should have been satisfied to the exclusion
of other creditors equally meritorious.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

BAILEY, COLLECTOR, V.

CLARK ET AL.

The term "capital," employed by a banker in the business of banking, in
the one hundred and tenth section of the Revenue Act of July 13th,
1866, does not include moneys borrowed by him from time to time temporarily in the ordinary course of his business. It applies only to the
property or moneys of the banker set apart from other uses and permanently invested in the business.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York; the case being thus:
The one hundred and tenth section of the Revenue Act

