Oct. 1874.]

FRENCH

v.

EDWARDS.

Statement of the case.

the notes for which they had paid the parties who intrusted
them to their custody, they are entitled to recover them, and
the decree of the Circuit Court to that effect is
AFFIRMED.

FRENCH V. EDWARDS.
1. Where the owner of land in fee makes a conveyance to a person in trust
to convey to others upon certain conditions, and the conditions never
arise, so that the trust cannot possibly be executed, a presumption arises
in cases where an actual conveyance would not involve a breach of duty
in the trustee or a wrong to some third person, that the trustee reconveyed to the owner; this being in ordinary cases his duty.
2. It is not necessary that the presumption should rest upon a basis of proof
or a conviction that the conveyance had been in fact executed.
8. When a court in a case where a jury is waived under the act of Mfatch 5th,
3865 (see Revised Statutes of the United States, 649), and the case is
submitted to it without the intervention of a jury, finds as a fact that
a conveyance was made to certain persons as trustees, and then finds as
a conclusion of law, that the legal title remained in those trustees, that
finding does not bind this court as a finding of fact; and if it was the
duty of the trustee to have reconveyed to the grantor as stated in the
firat paragraph of this syllabus, this court will reverse the judgment,
founded on that conclusion.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of California.
French brought ejectment, on the 30th of November, 1872,
in the court below, against Edwards and twelve others, for
a piece of land in California. The case was submitted to
the court without the intervention of a jury. The court
found these facts:
(1) That R. H. Vance, on the 1st of March, 1862, was
seized in fee of the premises in controversy.
(2) That on that day he conveyed the premises to the
plaintiff, who thereupon became seized and the owner in fee,
and remained such owner until the 9th of January, 1863.
(8) That on that day he and the defendants executed a
joint conveyance of the premises to Edward Martin and F.
E. Lynch, their heirs and assigns forever, upon certain

FRENCH V. EDWARDS.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

trusts, which, so far as it is necessary to state them, were as
follows:
To hold and convey the premises in lots of such size and
for such prices as should be directed by a committee of four
persons, or a majority of them, the committee to be appointed by the parties to the deed and a railroad company
then forming, and thereafter to be incorporated, to construct
a railroad leading from Sutteville, and connecting with the
Sacramento Valley Railroad.
This deed provided,
"That no conveyance shall be made by the said party of the
second part until the said railroad shall have been commenced
in good faith as aforesaid; and this conveyance shall be void if
such railroad shall not be built within one year from the date
of these presents; provided, however, that if the iron for such
railroad shall be lost or detained on its transit from the Atlantic
States, from any accident, then the time for completing said
railroad shall be extended to two years, instead of one year."
(4) That the railroad company was never incorporated and
the railroad was never commenced.
(5) That the defendants were in exclusive possession of
the premises at the commencement of the action, holding
adversely to the plaintiff and all other persons.
'The court held that the legal title was vested in Martin
and Lynch by the deed of the 9th of January, 1863, was
still vested in them, and that the plaintiff could not, therefore, recover.
It accordingly gave judgment for the defendants, and the
plaintiff brought the case here,* where it was elaborately
argued upon the doctrine of subsequent conditions.
Mr. S. 0. -ioughton (a brief of Mr. Tohn Reynolds being filed),
for the plaintiff in error; Mr. J. -f. McKune (a brief of Mr.
Delos Lake being filed), contra.
* This case was formerly before this court in another shape.

,506.

13 Wallace,

Oct. 1874.]

FRENCH V. EDWARDS.
Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
We have not found it necessary to consider the doctrine
of subsequent conditions broken, upon which the case has
been elaborately argued. Another ground of decision is
disclosed which we think free from difficulty, and upon
which we are satisfied to place our judgment.
It appears that the trust deed to Martin and Lynch was
executed on the 9th of January, 1863. By its terms it was
to become void if the railroad was not completed within one
year from its date. This suit was begun on the 80th of November, 1872, more than eight years after the time limited
when the deed, upon the contingency mentioned, was to lose
its efficacy. The court found that the road had not been
begun, and that the company had not been incorporated.
There is nothing in the record indicating that either event
will ever occur. It was found that the plaintiff had a perfect title when the trust deed was executed. The grantees
therefore, took their entire title from him. It is a corollary
that the other grantors had nothing to convey; Their joining in the deed, so far as the title was concerned, was matter
of form and not of substance. Without incorporation, the
railroad company could not share in the appointment of the
committee under whose direction the lots were to be sold
and the proceeds were to be distributed. Hence there could
be no sale, and the trustees were powerless to do anything
but remain passive and hold the title. The object of the
conveyance had wholly failed, and the trust was impossible
to be performed. The trust thus became barren. One more
dry and naked could not exist. It was the plain duty of the
trustees to reconvey to their grantor. He was the sole cestui
que trust, and had the exclusive beneficial right to the property. A court of equity, if applied to, could not have hesitated to compel a reconveyance. Under these circumstances
such reconveyance will be presumed in equity and at law' as*
well. In Lade v. Holford et al,* Lord Mansfield said that
when trustees ought to convey to the beneficial owner he
* Buller's Nisi Prius, 110.

FRENCH

V. EDWARDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

would leave it to the jury to presume, where such presumption might reasonably be made, that they had conveyed accordingly, "in order to prevent a just title from being defeated by a matter of form." This case was approved, and
the doctrine applied by Lord Kenyon in -Englandv. Slade.*
Three things must concur to warrant the presumption(1) It must have been the duty of the trustee to convey.
(2) There must be sufficient reason for the presumption. (3)
The object of the presumption must be the support of a just
title.t The case must be clearly such that a court of equity,
if called upon, would decree a reconveyance. The present
case is within these categories. The trustees being bound
to reconvey, it is to be presumed they discharged that duty,
rather than that they violated it by continuing to hold on to
the title. The trust was executory. When its execution became impossible, common honesty, their duty, and the law
required that they should at once give back to the donor the
legal title which he had given to them. It is not necessary
that the presumption should rest upon a basis of proof or
conviction that the conveyance had in fact been executed.
It is made because right and justice require it. It never
arises where the actual conveyance would involve a breach
of duty by the trustee or wrong to others. Like the doctrine
of relation it is applied only to promote the ends of justice,
never to defeat them.1 The rule is firmly established in the
English law.ยง It is equally well settled in American j urisprudence.I Properly guarded in its application, the principle is a salutary one. It prevents circuity of action, with
its delays and expense, quiets possessions, and gives repose
and security to titles. Sir William Grant said: "Otherwise
t Hill on Trustees, by Bispham, 394.
4 Term, 682.
Best on Presumptions, 112.
252;
12
Vesey,
v.
Waller,
: Hillary
Langley v. Sneyd, 1 Simon & Stuart, 55; Hillary v. Waller, supra;
Goodson v. Ellisson, 3 Russell, 588; Doe v. Sybourn, 7 Term, 3; Argier v.
Stanard, 3 Mylne & Keen, 571; Carteret v. Paschal, 3 Peere Williams,
198.
1 Doe v. Campbell, 10 Johnson, 475; Jackson v. Moore, 13 Id. 513; Moore
v. Jackson, 4 Wendell, 62; Aiken v. Smith, 1 Sneed, 304; Washburn on
Real Property 415 and note.

Oct. 1874.]

FRENCH V. EDWARDS.
Opinion of the court.

titles must forever remain imperfect, and in many respects
unavailable, when, from length of time, it has become impossible to discover in whom the legal estate, if outstanding, is actually vested.... What ought to have been done,
should be presumed to have been done. When the purpose
is answered for which the legal estate is conveyed, it ought
to be reconveyed."* If it had been one of the facts found
by the court below, that the title was still in the trustees, the
case would have presented a different aspect.t It is stated
only as a conclusion of law, arising upon the facts found.
Such findings of facts are regarded in this court in the light
of special verdicts. "If a special verdict on a mixed question of fact and law, find facts from which the court can
draw clear conclusions, it is no objection to the verdict that
the jury themselves have not drawn such conclusions, and
stated them as facts in the case."$ The presumption of the
reconveyance arises here, with the same effect upon the specific findings, as if it had been expressly set forth as one of
the facts found.
The conclusion of law that the title was still in the trustees, was, therefore, a manifest error. On the contrary, it
should have been presumed that Martin and Edwards had
reconveyed, and that the title had thus become reinvested
in the plaintiff, and the court should have adjudged accordingly.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the case remanded, with direc-

tions to proceed
IN

CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

* Hillary v. Waller, 12 Vesey, supra.

- Goodtitle v. Jones et al., 7 Term, 43; Roe v. Read, 8 Id. 122; Matthews
v. Wood's Lessee, 10 Gill & Johnson, 456.
1 Monkhouse et al. v. Hay et al., 8 Price, 256.

