DUPASSEUR

V. ROCHEREAU.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

and presents no record evidence of the sheriff's acts. We
think the return under the circumstances was, at least, traversable, and that it was properly shown that no actual seizure
of the property in dispute was ever made by the sheriff.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and

A

DUPASsEUR

v.

VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

ROCHEREAU.

I. When, in a case in a State court, a right or immunity is set up under
and by virtue of a judgment of a court of the United States, and the decision is against such right or immunity, a case is presented for removal
and review by writ of error to the Supreme Court of the United States
under the act of February 6th, 1867.
2. In such a case, the Supreme Court will examine and inquire whether or
not due validity and effect have been accorded to the judgment of the
Federal court, and if they have not, and the right or immunity claimed
has been thereby lost, it will reverse the judgment of the State court.
3. Whether due validity and effect have or have not been accorded to the
judgment of the Federal court will depend on the circumstances of the
case. If jurisdiction of the case was acquired only by reason of the
citizenship of the parties, and the State law alone was administered,
then only such validity and effect can be claimed for the judgment as
would be due to a judgment of the State courts under like circumstances.
4. Judgment was rendered by the Circuit Court of the United States for
Louisiana on a vendor's privilege and mortgage, declaring it to be the
first lien and privilege on the land; and the marshal sold the property
clear of all prior liens; and the mortgagee purchased, and paid into
court for the benefit of subsequent liens, the surplus of his bid beyond
the amount of his own debt. This judgment and sale were set up by
way of defence to a suit brought in the State court by another mortgagee, who claimed -priority to the first mortgage, and who had not been
made a party to the suit in the Circuit Court. The State court held
that the plaintiff was not bound by the former judgment on the question
of priority, not being a party to the suit. The case was brought to the
Supreme Court of the United States by writ of error, and this court
held, that the State court did not refuse to accord due force and effect to
the judgment; that such a judgment in the State courts would not be
conclusive on the point in question, and the judgment of the Circuit
Court could not have any-greater force or effect than judgments in the
State courts.

Oct. 1874.]

DUPASSEUR V. ROCHEREAU.
Statement of the case.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana;
the case being thus:
Pierre Sauv6, of the city of New Orleans, being indebted
to one Rochereau, of the same place, in the sum of $85,000,
executed on the 26th of February, 1858, an authentic act of
mortgage to him before a notary public, for the security of
the debt, upon a sugar plantation in Louisiana, above New
Orleans, with all the farming utensils, machinery, cattle, and
slaves belonging thereto. The mortgage, shortly after its
execution, was duly recorded in the proper office of the
parish.
On the 15th of March, 1866, Rochereau obtained judgment against Sauv6 in the Sixth District Court of New Orleans for the debt with interest and costs, with a recognition
of the special mortgage.
On the 7th of June, 1866, Rochereau commenced an action
in the same court against Edward Dupasseur, by a petition setting forth the said judgment and the act of mortgage, and the failure of Sauv6 to pay the same, and alleging
that Dupasseur had taken possession of the plantation as
owner thereof, and charging that the same was bound for
the debt, and that Dupasseur was bound either to pay the
debt or to give up the plantation, and praying process and
decree accordingly.
Dupasseur, in his answer, set up the following defence:

,That he purchased the property described in the plaintiff's
petition at a sale made by the marshal of the United States, in
virtue of an execution issued on a judgment rendered by the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Louisiana, in the case of Edward Dupasseur v. Pierre Sauvg, free
of all mortgages and incumbrances, and especiallyfrom the alleged
mortgage of the plaintiff; that the marshal's sale was made in
virtue of a judgment based on and recognizing the existence of
a superior privilege and special mortgage to that claimed by the
said plaintiff; and that the whole of the proceeds of said sale
was absorbed to satisfy the judgment in favor of this respondent, except $15,046, which are in the said marshal's hands, subject to the payment, pro tanto, of the plaintiff's mortgage."

DUPASSEUR V. POCIIEREAU.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The record of the judgment and proceedings in the United
States Circuit Court, together with the execution and sheriff's
deed to Dupasseur, and also the original act of mortgage on
which the proceedings were founded, were given in evidence.
From these it appeared that Sauve purchased the plantation
in question from one Jacobs, in June, 1852; that he paid
part cash, and secured the balance by five notes payable respectively in one, two, three, four, and five years, and that
the payment of the notes was secured by a reservation of the
vendor's lien in the act of sale by way of special mortgage,
with a covenant not to alien, &c., which act was duly recorded
as a special mortgage in the proper office in 1852, but was
not reinscribed within ten years, and not until 1865; it being
alleged, and proof being offered to show, that it was impossible, on account of the prevalence of the war, to have the
reinscription made within the proper time. The last note
of $29,000 was not paid, and suit was brought upon it against
Sauve by Jacobs, the then bolder, in October, 1858, in the
Third Judicial District Court of Louisiana for Jefferson Parish, and on the 21st of November, 1859, judgment was rendered for the amount, recognizing priority of the mortgage
on the plantation, and an order made for paying the money
into court. On the 5th of April, 1861, Sauv4 borrowed
$37,011 of Dupasseur, the defendant, to pay this judgment,
and gave him a new note for that amount, and Dupasseur
was, by a notarial act, subrogated to the rights of Jacobs in
the judgment and mortgage.
On the 1st of December, 1863, Dupasseur & Co., citizens
of France, in right of Dupasseur, filed a petition in the Circuit Court of the United States for a sequestration of the
crops, that Sauve might be cited to appear and answer, and
for judgment for $37,011 (the amount of the previous judgment), with interest and costs, to be paid by right of special
mortgage and with vendor's lien and privilege, before all
other creditors, and for sale, &c. No one was made a party to
this suit except Pierre SaurU. On the 23d of February, 1865,
judgment was rendered in this case, to the effect that Dupasseur recover from Sauv6 the amount sued for, with yen-

Oct. 1874.]

DUPASSEUR V. RoCHEREAU.
Statement of the case.

dor's lien and privilege upon the plantation in question; and
an execution was issued thereon, by virtue of which the
marshal, on the 5th of May, 1866, sold the property to Dupasseur for $64,151, being $15,046 more than sufficient to
satisfy his claim. The balance was paid to the marshal, and
by him paid into the Circuit Court of the United States, to
be disposed of according to law.
I the suit first abovementioned-the one brought in the
Sixth District Court of New Orleans by Rochereau against
Dupasseur, and to which Dupasseur set up the defence just
abovementioned-judgment was finally given for Rochereau
on the 28th of January, 1868, and was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Louisiana on the 28th of April, 1868. The
judgment of the Supreme Court was now brought here by
the present writ of error. Dupasseur, the now plaintiff in
error, alleging as a ground of bringing the case here, that
the State court decided against the validity of a judicial decision in his favor made by the Circuit Court of the United
States on the very question at issue in this action, which decision was set up and relied on by him in his defence; and,
therefore, that the case came within the terms of the second
section of the act of February 5th, 1867* (section 709, Revised Statutes of the United States), replacing the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act,t which enacts among other
things that a writ of error from this court will lie to the
highest court of the State in which a decision in the suit
could be had"Where any title, right, privilege, or immunity is claimed
under the Constitution, or any treaty or statute of or commission held, or aithority exercised under the United States, and the
decision is against the title, right, privilege, or immunity specially set up or claimed under such Constitution, treaty, statute,
commission or authority."
Two questions were thus raised by Dupasseur in this
court:
* 14 Stat. at Laige, 385.

- See the section, 20 Wallace, 592, 593, right-hand column.

DUPASSEUR V. R0CHEREAU.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

1st. Whether this court had jurisdiction under the act of
1867, already mentioned, to hear the case?
2d. Did the State court refuse to give validity and effect
to the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States
in favor of Dupasseur?
Mr. A. C. Story, for the plaintiff in error; Messrs. B. and
A. . Janin (with whom was Mr. Charles Andrew Johnson),
contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Where a State court refuses to give effect to the judgment
of a court of the United States rendered upon the point in
dispute, and with jurisdiction of the case and the parties, a
question is undoubtedly raised which, under the act of 1867,
may be brought to this court for revision. The case would
be one in which a title or right is claimed under an authority
exercised under the United States, and the decision is against
the title or right so set up. It would thus be a case arising
under the laws of the United States, establishing the Circuit Court and vesting it with jurisdiction; and hence it
would be within the judicial power of the United States, as
defined by the Constitution; and it is clearly within the
chart of appellate power given to this court, over cases
arising in and decided by the State courts.
The refusal by the courts of one State to give effect to the
decisions of the courts of another State is an infringement
of a different article of the Constitution, to wit, the first
section of article four; and the right to bring such a case
before us by writ of error under the twenty-fifth section of
the Judiciary Act, or the act of 1867, is based on the refusal
of the State court to give validity and effect to the right
claimed under that article and section.
In either case, therefore, whether the validity or due effect
af a judgment of the State court, or that of a judgment of
a United States court, is disallowed by a State court, the
oonstitution and laws furnish redress by a final appeal to
this court.

Oct. 1874.]

DUPASSEUR V. ROCHEREAU.
Opinion of the court.

We cannot hesitate, therefore, as to our jurisdiction to
hear the case.
The question then arises, did the Supreme Court of Louisiana in deciding against the claim of Dupasseur refuse,
as the defendant charged, to give proper validity and effect
to the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States,
and decide against such validity and effect?
The only effect that can be justly claimed for the judgment in the Circuit Court of the United States, is such as
would belong to judgments of the State courts rendered
under similar circumstances. Dupasseur &Co. were citizens
of France, and brought the suit in the Circuit Court of the
United States as such citizens; and, consequently, that court,
deriving its jurisdiction solely from the citizenship of the
parties, was in the exercise of jurisdiction to administer the
laws of the State, and its proceedings were had in accordance with the forms and course of proceeding in the State
courts. It is apparent, therefore, that no higher sanctity or
effect can be claimed for the judgment of the Circuit Court
of the United States rendered in such a case under such circumstances than is due to the judgments of the State courts
in a like case and under similar circumstances. If by the
laws of the State a judgment like that rendered by the Circuit Court would have had a binding effect as against Rochereau, if it had been rendered in a State court, then it should
have the same effect, being rendered by the Circuit Court.
If such effect is not conceded to it, but is refused, then due
validity and effect are not given to it, and a case is made for
the interposition of the power of reversal conferred upon
this court.
We are bound to inquire, therefore, whether the judgment of the Circuit Court thus brought in question would
have had the effect of binding and concluding Rochereau if
it had been rendered in a State court. We have examined
this question with some care, and have come to the conclusion that it would not.
The same general rule of law and justice prevails in Louisiana as elsewhere, to the effect that no persons are bound

DUPASSEUR V.

R

CHEREAU.

[Slip. CtL

Opinion of the court.

by a judgment or decree except those who are parties to it,
and have had an opportunity of presenting their rights.
The only apparent exception to this rule in general, is the
effect of a proceeding in rem, which from the necessity of
the case is binding on all persons. This exception is only
apparent, for indeed in that case all persons having any interest in the thing are deemed parties, and have the right to
intervene pro interesse suo; and if after the lawful publications of notice have been made they fail to do so, they are
considered as having acquiesced in the exercise of the jurisdiction. A further exception, in Louisiana, arises from the
pact de non alienando in mortgages, which dispenses with the
necessity of making subsequent grantees or mortgagees parties in a proceeding to enforce payment of the mortgage.
They are to take notice at their peril.
In this case, Rochereau was not made a party to the suit
of Pupasseur in the Circuit Court of the United States; and
the only questions remaining, therefore, are whether that
was a proceeding in rem, or whether Rochereau was a subsequent mortgagee to Dupasseur?
The fact that a sequestration was issued does not make
the proceeding one in rem, as that was a mere ancillary process for preserving the movables and crops on the mortgaged
property from waste and spoliation. It did not, in the
slightest degree, change the character of the suit. And, in
truth, it was never executed, as the return of the marshal
shows. The question then recurs as to the character of the
suit itself. It was an action brought against Sauv6 on the
judgment obtained against him by Jacobs in the District
Court for Jefferson Parish, which judgment had been, in
effect, assigned to Dupasseur. The petition prayed, besides
a sequestration of the crops, &c., that Sauv6 might be cited
to appear and answer; that judgment might be rendered in
favor of the petitioner for the sum of $37,011.99,* and interest and costs to be paid by right of special mortgage and
with vendor's lien and privilege upon the plantation, slaves,
* The amount of the previous judgment.

Oct. 1874.]

DUPASSEUR

V. RocHEREAU.

Opinion of the court.

stock, &c., and that the same might be sold for cash for an
amount sufficient to pay said judgment by preference, right
of special mortgage and vendor's lien and privilege, and before all other creditors. This was, therefore, nothing but
the ordinary bypothecary action brought to en force payment
of a special mortgage. It is called a real action in the Code
of Practice, because it seeks the sale of particular property
liable to the plaintiff's mortgage. But this does not necessarily make it a proceeding in ren in the sense of which we
have spoken. It is brought against the person in possession,
as well as the property, and the creditor can only seize and
sell such property, after having obtained judgment against
the debtor in the usual form.*
The case is, therefore, clearly not a proceeding in rem
properly so called.
Then was Rochereau a subsequent mortgagee to Dupasseur? Was the latter entitled to priority? If so, Rochereau
would be bound by the judgment though not made a party.
But he contends that his is the prior lien and not the subsequent one.
Now we can find nothing in the Code of Practice or in
the judicial decisions of the State of Louisiana, which goes
to show that Rochereau or any other person claiming a
prior lieu to that of Dupasseur on the property in question
would be concluded by this judgment and forever estopped
from showing that truth. Unless there is something peculiar in the Louisiana laws which makes the effect of the
judgment different from what it would be under other systems of jurisprudence, prior mortgagees, and those having
elder titles not made parties to the suit, cannot be affected
by the judgment.
Indeed the appellant's counsel does not contend that prior
mortgagees, or those having prior liens or privileges, were
affected, but he insists that subsequent mortgagees are affected, and are entitled only to the surplus proceeds which
have been paid into court, and that it was not necessary to'
* Code of Practice, article 64.

138

VERMILYE & Co. v. ADAMS EXPRESS Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

make them parties because of the pact de non alienando;and
he insists that IRocherean was a subsequent mortgagee.
Now that is the very point in dispute. Rochereau insists
that by the non-inscription of the Jacobs mortgage within
ten years, it lost its rank, and became the subsequent and
not the prior mortgage. Grant that Rochereau was the
subsequent mortgagee, and all that the appellant claims
would necessarily follow. But that point is not granted;
on the contrary it is the very matter in dispute, and on this
vital point we think that Rochereau was not concluded by
the judgment of the Circuit Court, because he was not a
party to it. Therefore, the State court, in not regarding the
decision of the Circuit Court as decisive of that question,
did not refuse to that decision its due and legal effect.
The sections of the Code of Practice which direct the mode
of proceeding at sheriff's sales under mortgage or other liens
do not affect the question. They simply require, in substance, that the sheriff shall possess himself of the recorder's
certificate of the various incumbrances on the property, and
shall sell subject to all liens and privileges prior to that
under which the sale is made; and if the property is bid
off for more than those prior liens and privileges, the purchaser only pays the balance and takes the property subject
to them. This shows that prior liens are not to be affected
or disturbed. If the sheriff by a mistake of law or fact regards a prior lien as a subsequent one, surely his mistake
cannot destroy or postpone the lien which he thus fiils to
assign to its proper place.
JfUDGMENT AFFIRIED.

VERMILYE & Co. v. ADAMS

EXPRESS COMPANY.

1. The bonds and treasury notes of the United States payable to holder or
bearer at a definite future time are negotiable commercial paper, and
their transferability is subject to the commercial law of other paper of
that character.
2. Where such paper is overdue a purchaser takes subject to the rights of

