Oct. 1874.]

TERRELL v. ALLISON.
Statement of the case.

TERRELL ET AL. V. ALLISON.
1. A writ of assistance is an appropriate process to issue from a court of'
equity to place a purchaser of mortgaged premises under its decree in:
possession after he has received the commissioner's or master's deed, as.
against parties who are bound by the decree and who refuse to surrender
possession pursuant to its direction or other order of the court.
2. The owner of property mortgaged at the time suit is brought for the foreclosure of the mortgage, or the sale of the mortgaged premises, whether
he be the original mortgagor or his successor in interest, is an indispensable party to the suit. A decree without his being made a party will
not bind him, or parties claiming under him, although the latter may
have acquired their interests after suit commenced; and a purchaser of
the property at a sale under the decree is not entitled to a writ of assistance to obtain possession of the premises as against him or them.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Mississippi, from a decree awarding a writ of assistance
to put the purchaser in possession of mortgaged property
sold under a decree of the court, and to remove the appellants from the premises.
The case arose in this wise:
In April, 1866, one Vaugh A. Hilburn, a resident of Mississippi, executed to Hugh Allison and others a mortgage,
upon certain real property situated in that State, to secure
the payment of his promissory note of the same date for
$12,000, payable in March of the following year. In April;
1867, the mortgagor sold and conveyed the premises for a
valuable consideration to one Eliza Kyle, and placed her at
the time in possession. In May, 1871, Mrs. Kyle sold and'
conveyed the property upon like consideration to one Terrell, and he afterwards transferred a part of his interest to
his brother, and they were the parties whose removal the,
decree directed.
In April, 1868, the mortgagees instituted suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Mississippi
to foreclose the mortgage, or, more accurately speaking, tor
obtain a decree for the sale of the mortgaged premises, and
VOL.

=i.

19

TERRELL

v. ALLISON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the application of the proceeds of the sale to the payment of
the amount which might be found due to them on the note
secured. In this suit Hilburn and his wife, who had joined
with him in the execution of the mortgage, were alone made
parties. The case proceeded to a final decree, confirming a
master's report, finding that $2400 were due the mortgagees,
and directing its payment within a designated period, or, in
default of such payment, that the premises be sold by a commissioner appointed for that purpose, at auction, to the
highest bidder; that a deed be executed to the purchaser,
and that he be placed in possession of the premises. The
payment directed not being made, the premises were sold
by the commissioner and purchased by Hugh Allison, one
of the mortgagees; the sale was confirmed and a deed executed by the commissioner to the purchaser. The two Terrells then in possession refused to surrender the premises to
the purchaser, and he thereupon applied by petition to the
court for a writ of assistance to be issued to the marshal to
place him in possession. The court granted the writ, directing the officer to go upon the land and eject the Terrells
and place the purchaser in possession. Subsequently this
writ was revoked and an order was made that the Terrells
show cause why the writ should not issue on the petition
filed. In response to this order the Terrells set up the sale
and conveyance of the premises to Mrs. Kyle by the mortgagor and his placing her in possession before suit commenced, and the subsequent purchase by them from her,
producing at the same time the conveyance from the mortgagor to her, and from her to one of them. And they insisted that Mrs. Kyle was a necessary party to the foreclosure suit, and that the decree directing the sale of the
premises was void as to her and as to them as purchasers
under her. No replication to the answer was made, nor
does it appear from the record that any question was raised
as to the correctness of its statements. The court, it would
seem, considered the facts disclosed insufficient, for it dismissed the answer and made a decree that an alias writ of
assistance issue. From this decree the appeal was taken.

Oct. 1874.]

TERRELL V. ALLISON.

Opinion of the court.

Messrs. P. Phillips, Nugent, and Yerger, for the appellants.
N1o opposing counsel.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
A writ of assistance is undoubtedly an appropriate process to issue from a court of equity to place a purchaser of
mortgaged premises under its decree in possession after he
has received the commissioner's or master's deed, as against
parties who are bound by the decree and who refuse to surrender possession pursuant to its direction or other order of
the court. The power to issue the writ results from the
principle, that the jurisdiction of the court to enforce its decree is coextensive with its jurisdiction to determine the
rights of the parties, and to subject to sale the property mortgaged. It is a rule of that court to do complete justice
when that is practicable, not merely by declaring the right,
but by affording a remedy for its enjoyment. It does not
turn the party to another forum to enforce a right which it
has itself established. When, therefore, it decrees the sale
of property it perfects the transaction by giving with the
deed possession to the purchaser. "If it was to be understood," says Chancellor Kent, "that after a decree and sale
of mortgaged premises the mortgagor or other party to the*
suit, or perhaps those who have been let into the possession
by the mortgagor pendente lite, could withhold the possession
in defiance of the authority of thfis court and compel the
purchaser to resort to a court of law, I apprehend that the
delay and expense and inconvenience of such a course of
proceeding would greatly impair the value and diminish the
results of sales under a decree."*
But the writ of assistance can only issue against parties
bound by the decree, which is only saying that the execution cannot exceed the decree which it enforces. And that
the owner of the property mortgaged, which is directed to
* Kershaw v. Thompson, 4 Johnson's Chancery, 609; see also Montgomery

v. Tutt, 11 California, 191.

TERRELL V.

ALLISON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

be sold, can only be bound when he has had notice of the
proceedings for its sale, if he acquired his interest previous
to their institution, is too obvious to require either argument
or authority. It is a rule old as the law that no man shall
be condemned in his rights of property, as well as in his
rights of person, without his day in court; that is, without
being duly cited to answer respecting them, and being heard
or having opportunity of being heard thereon.
Under the old theory of mortgages, when they were
treated as conveyances, the property passed to the mortgagee upon condition that it should revert to the mortgagor
if the obligation, for the security of which it was executed,
was performed, otherwise that the mortgagee's interest
should become absolute. The mortgage was in terms the
conveyance of a conditional estate, which became absolute
upon breach of the condition. But courts of equity at an
early day, looking beyond the terms of the instrument to
the real character of the transaction, as one of security and
not of purchase, interfered and gave to the mortgagor a
right to redeem the property from the forfeiture following
the breach, upon discharge of the debt secured, or other
obligation, within a reasonable period. With this equitable
right of redemption in the mortgagor a corresponding right
in the mortgagee to insist upon the discharge of the debt,
or other obligation secured, within a reasonable time, or a
relinquishment of the right to redeem, was recognized by
those courts. The mortgagee could, therefore, bring his
suit to foreclose the equity of redemption, unless the debt
or other obligation was discharged within a reasonable time.
To such a proceeding the holder of the equity of redemption
was an essential party, for it was his right that was to be
affected. His equity of redemption was regarded as the real
and beneficial estate in the land; it was subject to transfer
by him, and to seizure and sale on judicial process against
him. If it were transferred to another, such other party
stood in his shoes and was equally entitled to be heard before his right could be cut off. It was certainly possible for
him to show that the mortgage was satisfied, or his liability

Oct. 1874.]

TERRELL

v. ALLISON.

293

Opinion of the court.

released, or that in some other way the suit could not be
maintained. The holder of the equity of redemption was,
therefore, an indispensable party to a valid foreclosure.
The old common-law doctrine of mortgages does not now
generally prevail in the several States of the Union. In
most of them the mortgage is not regarded as a conveyance,
but is treated as a mere lien or incumbrance upon the property as security for the payment of a debt, or the performance of some other pecuniary obligation. But the owner
of the property, whether the original mortgagor or his successor in interest, has the same right to be heard respecting
the existence of the debt or other obligation alleged before
the property can be sold, which at common law the owner
of the equity of redemption had to be heard before the foreclosure of his equity could be decreed.*
Applying these views to the present case it is evident that
the learned judge of the court below erred. Mrs. Kyle purchased the premises mortgaged before the institution of the
suit for the sale of the property and was placed in their possession. She was, therefore, an indispensable party to that
suit, and was not bound by the decree rendered in her absence. The two Terrells took, by their purchase, whatever
rights she possessed; if she was not bound by the decree
neither are they bound. They stand in her shoes and have
all the rights and equities with respect to the property which
she possessed. The writ of assistance could not be executed
against her or against them claiming under her, her rights
not having been affected by the decree. A writ of assistance can only issue against parties to the proceedings, and
parties entering into possession under them after suit commenced, pendente lite.t
It is true that the two Terrells purchased the premises
after suit brought for their sale, but not from a party to such
suit, or from any one who had acquired his interest subsequent to its commencement. They do not come, therefore,
* See Goodenow v. Ewer, 16 California, 466, 467.
t Frelinghuysen . Cowden, 4 Paige, 204; Van Hook v. Throckmorton,
8 Id. 33; Reed v. Marble, 10 Id. 409.

294

DECATUR BANK V. ST.

Louis

[Sup. Ct.

BANK.

Statement of the case.

within the meaning of the rule which makes the decree bind
parties purchasing pendente lite.
The decree awarding the writ must, therefore, be REVERSED, and the cause remanded to the court below with
directions to
DISMISS THE PETITION OF THE PURCHASER.

DECATUR BANK V.

ST.

Louis

BANK.

1. A bank at Decatur, Illinois, accredited B. with a bank at St. Louis, Mis.
souri, saying that "his drafts against shipments of cattle to the extent of
$10,000 are hereby guaranteed." Held, that hegs were included within
the term cattle, and that B.'s drafts against shipments of hogs not having
been paid, the Bank of Decatur was responsible on its letter of credit.
2. Though there may be plain error in a charge, yet if the record present to
this court the whole case, and it be plain from such whole case that if
the court had charged rightly the result of the trial would have been
the same as it was, this court will not reverse.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of

Illinois.
In the autumn and winter of 1869, P. E. Frederick-who,
according to his own account, was at that time "engaged in
buying and shipping stock in St. Louis "-intending to purchase cattle there and ship-them to a business connection of
his in Chicago, named J. S. Talmadge, who was to receive
and sell them, and honor Frederick's drafts given in payment for the same-applied to the First National Bank of
Decatur, Illinois, for a letter of credit on some bank in St.
Louis. The bank at Decatur accordingly gave him a letter
on its correspondent, the Home Savings Bank of St. Louis.
The letter was in these words:
FIRST NATIONAL

BANK,

DECATUR, ILL., September 13th, 1869.

H. C. PIERCE, ESQ.,
Cashier, St. Louis, Mo.

SIR: We beg herewith to accredit with you P. E. Fredevick, Esq , whose drafts on shipments of cattle to J. S. Talmadge,

