OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

of his being so licensed or authorized, and take an oath that
he will honestly demean himself in the practice of the law,
and to the best of his ability execute his office of attorney-at,
law; and also, when he is licensed in this State, take the oath
of fidelity to the Commonwealth."
It was for the Supreme Court of Appeals to construe the
statute of Virginia in question, and to determine whether
the word "person" as therein used is confined to males,
and whether women are admitted to practise law in that
Commonwealth.
Leave denied.

THE HAYTIAN REPUBLIC.
CERTIORARI TO THE oIRCEIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TEE

I-

CIRCUIT.
No. 1136. Argued April 27,1894.-Decided May 26,1894.

When a vessel, libelled for smuggling and for violations of the Chinese
Exclusion Act, is discharged on giving the bond required by law, it may
be again libelled in another district for similar offences, alleged to have
been committed prior to the offences charged in the first libel; but, if
both suits proceed to judgment, there can be but one forfeiture of the
vessel.

Ow June 7, 1893, in the District Court of the United States
for the District of Washington, the United States libelled the
steamship Haytian Republic for violations of the "Chinese
Exclusion Act," and for smuggling opium. It was averred
that the violations of the Exclusion Act occurred at the following dates: 1st, September 20, 1892"; 2d, October 8, 1892; 3d,
October 12, 1892; 4th, October 15 and 16, 1892; 5th, November 1, 1892; 6th, November 26, 1892; 7th, December 12, 1892;
8th, December 13, 1892; 9th, January 2, 1893 ; 10th, January
26, 1893; 11th, February 2, 1893; 12th, March 28, 1893; 13th,
May 11, 1893.
The offences of opium smuggling, according to the libel,
were committed as follows:

THE HAYTIAN REPUBLIC.
Statement of the Case.

November 21, 1892, at Portland, Oregon, 2000 pounds, of
the value of $22,000; December 7, 1892, at St. Johns, on the
Columbia River, 1000 pounds, of the value of $11,000.
The prayer was for the forfeiture of the vessel on account
of the violations of the Exclusion Act, and for judgment for
$32,000, the value of the opium, with recognition of a lien on
the ship for that amount.
The Northwest Loan and Trust Company claimed the vessel,
and, after due appraisement, she was bonded.
On the 6th day of July, 1893, in the District Court of the
United States for the District of Oregon, the United States
again libelled the same steamship for violations of the Chinese
Exclusion Act and for smuggling opium. In this libel it was
alleged that the violations of the act were committed at the
following dates: 1st, October 29, 1892; 2d, June 14, 1893;
and 3d, June 8, 1893, all at the port of Portland, Oregon.
And the opium smuggling was charged as follows:
1st, October 29, 1892, at Portland, Oregon, 1640 cans, containing 820 pounds, of the value of $9840; 2d, December 27,
1892, at St. Johns, Oregon, 1000 pounds, valued at $12,000.
The prayer of this second libel was for forfeiture of the
vessel for the violations of the Exclusion Act and for judgment for $28,840, the value of the opium, with recognition of
a lien on the vessel for that amount.
On the 14th of July, 1893, an amended libel was filed;
charging the smuggling of opium, 1st, on July 28, 1892, Willamette River, 300 pounds of opium, bf the value of $3300;
2d, on August 30, 1892, on the Columbia River, near the
mouth of the Willamette River, of 800 pounds, of the value
of $8800; 3d, on the 2d of September, 1892, near Swan Island;
1400 pounds, worth $15,400; 4th, on the 27th of January,
1893, at Portland, Oregon, 1200 pounds, worth $11,220; and
5th, on the 22d of February, 1893, at Portland, Oregon, 900
pounds, value $9900.
The prayer of the amended libel was also for the forfeiture
of the vessel, and for a decree for the penalty to the value of
the opium, which was $48,620, with lien upon the vessel.
The original and amended libel claimed, therefore, the for-

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellees.

feiture of the vessel for three violations of the Chinese Exclusion Act, the first occurring in October, 1892, and the two
last after June 7, 1893; and also sought to enforce against
the vessel an aggregate penalty of $77,460 for seven acts of
opium smuggling, which, they charged, had taken place at
various dates between the 28th of July, 1892, and the 22d of
February, 1893.
Thus, all the offences against the Chinese Exclusion Act,
charged by these libels, except the two last, occurred prior
to June 1, 1893, the date of the filing of the libel in the District Court of Washington, and all the offences of opium
smuggling therein charged occurred prior to the filing of the
suit in Washington.
The Northwest Loan and Trust Company appeared as
claimant in the new suit. It excepted to all the averments
as to violations of the Exclusion Act and smuggling which, according to the allegations, were committed before the filing
of the suit in the District of Washington. Its exception,
therefore, covered all the charges of smuggling opium and
one of the charges of violation of the Chinese Exclusion Act.
To the two averments of violation of the act, which were not
excepted to, an answer was filed.
The court sustained the exception and dismissed the libels,
except as to the two charges of violation of the Exclusion Act
subsequent to the filing of the suit in the Washington District. As to these, it held that the averments of the libel
stated no violation of the laws of the United States.
The case was taken by appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit, where the judgment of the District
Court was affirmed. This action of the Circuit Court of
Appeals was brought up for review under a writ of certiorari.
AXr. Solicitor General for the United States.
Mrk. John -H.3litehell for the steamship Haytian Republic
and for The Northwest Loan and Trust Company.
The well-settled rule, which requires the boundaries of the
jurisdictions of courts of equal jurisdiction in different States or

THE HAYTIMT REPUBLIC.
Argument for Appellees.

districts, both as to persons and subject-matter, to be clearly
defined and recognized, to the end that proceedings in one
shall not in any respect, or in the slightest degree, be obstructed or delayed- by proceedings in the other, will not permit a second seizure and libel in r'em against a vessel, pending
seizure and proceedings thereunder in another jurisdiction, or
even in the same jurisdiction, and for alleged cause or causes
of forfeiture existing at the date of the first seizure. If there
can, under such circumstances, be a second seizure, then there
may be a third, and a fourth, or even more, in as many other
districts, or even in the same district.
The right of the claimant to give bond and have the vessel
released is a statutory right, - one which attaches as often as
a seizure occurs, but he must give bond conditioned for the
payment of the full appraised value of the vessel in the event
of condemnation. If there can be two or more seizures of the
same vessel in as many different districts and as many different
bonds given for the value of the vessel, and a decision in each
case be entered in favor of the government, may not the
claimant, nay, will he not, be compelled to respond on these
several bonds to an amount double or treble, as the case may
be, of the value of the vessel?
The Solicitor General suggests in his brief that "If various
libels filed by the government be pending in different jurisdictions, each involving a forfeiture, and a bond has been
given, in a proper case a stay may be obtained, pending a
speedy determination in one suit, and if a judgment of
forfeiture is rendered in that suit, it would seem proper to
allow it to be pleaded in bar of the other suits."
It is respectfully submitted that any rule which makes the
progress of the proceedings in one district court depend on
the progress or delay of similar proceedings in another district
court, ought not to be regarded with favor by this court.
This being a proceeding in rem not inersonam,it is clear
the case does not come within the category of cases permitting separate suits as upon separate and distinct demands;
on the contrary, this proceeding in -'em comes clearly
within the doctrine laid down by this court, speaking through

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellees.

Mr. Justice Field, in Stark v. Starr, 91 U. S. 477, 485, where
it is said: "It is undoubtedly a settled principle that a party
seeking to enforce a claim legal or equitable must present to
the court, either by the pleadings or proofs, all the grounds
upon which he expects a judgment in his favor. He is not at
liberty to split up his demand and prosecute it by piecemeal,
or present only a portion of the grounds upon which special
relief is sought, and leave the rest to be presented in a second
suit, if the first fail. There would be no end to litigation if
such a practice were permissible."
What was the special relief sought by the government in
the proceeding in the Washington court? Simply the confiscation of the vessel. This being so, the government was
"not at liberty to split up its demand and prosecute it by
piecemeal."
What would be the result of a final decision either way by
the Washington court as a bar to future seizures and suits for
antecedent causes of forfeiture, whether such causes were or
w6re not included in the libel in that case? The answer tothis query is a proper test as to whether the Oregon court
could acquire jurisdiction pending the suit in the Washington
court, or if jurisdiction could attach, whether it could stand
against a plea of lis pendcens in the Washington court.
It is respectfully insisted such final decree in the Washington court, either condemning the vessel on the one hand, or
exonerating the owner against all charges preferred on the
other, would be an absolute bar to any future suit against the
same vessel, either on account of the causes of forfeiture
alleged in the bill or any similar antecedent causes, not included in the bill. If this be true, then a plea in abatement
or bar, or exceptions filed, which amount to the same thing in
effect, to the bill in the Oregon court, must abate the proceedings in that suit.
Chief Justice Marshall, in Osborn v. Bank of the United
States, 9 Wheat.. 738, held that, to ascertain what is embraced
in a cause it is necessary to consider what will be concluded
by the judgment, and a judgment is confessedly conclusive of
every point which might have been raised in pleading, whether

THE HAYTIAN REPUBLIC.
Opini6n of the Court.

it is or is not actually put at issue and determined.
Beloit v. Morgan, 7 Wall. 619.

See also

A former judgment between the same parties in which-a
claim was decided or was properly involved and might have
been decided is a bar to another action or suit as to such claim.
Stockton v. Ford, 18 How. 418.
"The discovery of new evidence, not in the power of the
party at the former trial, forms no exception to the rule in
relation to estoppel, whether the second action is at law or in
equity."
"An adjudication is final and conclusive not only as to the
matter actually determined, but as to every other matter
whicb the parties might have litigated and have decided as
incident to or essentially connected with the subject-matter of
the litigation, and every matter coming within the legitimate
purview of thb original action, both in respect to matters of
claim and of defence."
"If either party omits to set forth and prove all the grounds
of his right or his adversary's want of it, he cannot correct
his error by bringing another suit upqn the portion or fragment of the case omitted." Freeman on Judgments.
MR. JusTic, WHITE, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

All question as to the correctness of the rulings below, -that
the two alleged violations of the Exclusion Act after June,
1893, constituted no offence against the laws of the United States, was waived in the discussion at bar.
The first question, then, for consideration is, was the action
of the court correct in dismissing all the charges, both as to
-the introduction of Chinese and as to the importation of opium
prior to June T, 1893, because of the pendency of the suit in
the District of Washington?
Pretermitting all question as to whether the pendency of
suits in District Courts of the United States sitting in different
States, is a subject-matter of the defence "other suit pending"1- the issue is, "Did the suit in Washingtdo prevent the

OCTOBER TERAT, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

bringing of suit in Oregon?" Both the introductions of
Chinese and the importations of opium which were averred in
the suit in Oregon were distinct and different acts from those
charged in the libel filed in the District Court of Washington.
The elementary principle which governs the availability of
the plea of "other suit pending" was thus stated in lTatom v.
Jones, 13 Wall. 619, 715:
"When the, pixdency of such a suit is set up to defeat
another, the cze m ist be the same. There must be the same
parties, or, at least, Luch as represent the same interest, there
must be the same rights asserted and the same relief prayed
for. This relief must be founded on the same facts, and the
title, or essential basis of the relief sought, must be the same."
Tested by these principles, it is obvious that the plea -of
pendency of the suit in Washington was not available here.
There were the same parties, but not the same rights asserted;
and the claim of relief was not founded upon the same facts.
In the case just cited it was said that the true test of the
sufficiency of a plea of "other suit pending" in another forum
was the legal efficacy of the first suit, when finally disposed
of, as "the thing adjudged," regarding the matters at issue
in the second suit. Dick v. Gilmer, 4 La. Ann. 520; Bi8owff
v. Theurer, 8 La. Ann. 15.
The efficiency of the test, thus applied, results from the
fact that the elements constituting the thing adjudged, and
those necessary for the plea of "other suit pending," are
identical.
It is obvious that the decision of the suit in Washington
would not have constituted the thing adjudged as to the
matters averred in the suit in the District of Oregon. The
charges were different. If the court in Washington had
found that, at the times and places named, the vessel had not
§muggled opium and had not illegally imported Chinese, and
adjudged a~cordingly, such judgment would not have affected
the question of whether or not similar offences had been
committed at other times and places.
It is contended, however, that, although the two suits involved the assertion of different rights, as th.e rights asserted

THE HAYTIAX REPUBLIC.
Opinion of the Court.

in the last suit were in existence at the time the first suit was
brought, therefore they should have- been asserted in that
suit, and could not be afterwards relied upon in a separate
suit, in a different forum. In support of this proposition we
are referred to the case of Stark v. Starr, 941U. S. 477, 485,
and this language is quoted from the opinion in that case:
"It is undoubtedly a settled question that a party seeking
to enforce a claim legal or equitable must present to the
court, either by the pleadings or proofs, all the grounds upon
which he expects a judgment in his favor. He is not at
liberty to split up his demand and prosecute it by piecemeal,
or present only a portion of the grounds upon which special
relief is sought, and leave the rest to be presented in a second
suit, if the first fail. There would be no end to litigation if
such a practice were permissible."
This statement, however, is qualified by the following,
which is not included in the citation: "But this principle
does not require distinct causes of action - that is to say, distinct matters - each of which would authorize by itself independent relief, to be presented in a single suit, though they
existed at the same time and might be considered together."
p. 485.
The qualification states the elementary rule. One of the
tests laid down for the purpose of determining whether or
not the causes of action should have been joined in one suit
is whether the evidence necessary to prove one cause of action
would establish the other. Cripps v. Talvande, 4 McCord, 20.
It is evident that proof showing that a particular lot of
opium had been smuggled on a particular day, or a particular
number of Chinese had been imported at a particular time,
would have no relevancy or tendency to prove the smuggling
of a different lot of opium at a different time, or the importation of a different number of Chinese at a different date.,
It was conceded, in argument, that where a vessel had been
bonded and then committed an offence - which made her
could be proceeded against in a
liable to forfeiture -she
court other than where the bond was given. This admission
practically involves the whole point at issue here. If the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

vessel, after the bond had been given, was not in the custody
of the court of first resort to the extent of preventing a second
libel from being filed against her in another court -for a subsequently arising offence, she was not in the custody of the
court so as to prevent a seizure for an offence. which existed
at the time of the first libel, and which the libellants were
under no legal necessity to join therein. The attempted distinction rests upon the theory that, after bonding, the vessel
was in the custody of the court for the purposes of all claims
existing at the time of the bonding, and out of the custody
of the court as to all claims arising subsequent thereto. But
if the vessel was in the custody of the court at all, it was
there for all purposes, and the admission that it was not so
in the custody of the first court as to preclude proceedings
against it in another forum under certain circumstances carries
with it the concession that it was not in that custody to such
an extent as to affect the question of proceedings elsewhere
under any circumstances whatever.
It is true that, where a fraudulent appraisement has been
had, or a fraudulent or illegal bond has been given, in an
Admiralty proceeding, the court has the power to recall, the
vessel for the purpose of requiring an honest appraisement
and of exacting a legal bond. tnited States v. Ames, 99
U. S. 35; The Union, 4 Blatchford, 90; The Favorite, 2
Flippin, 86 ; The Tales, 3 Ben. 327; 2 Parsons on Shipping,
411. This special power, however, to meet a particular contingency does not affect the general rule, or-imply that the
vessel, after a legal bond has been given, remains in the
exclusive custody and jurisdiction of the -court. 2n Union,
siqpra.
It is urged that, as in the first case the issue was the forfeiture of the vessel, and this involved her entire value, and as
the bond given represented that entirety, the existence of the

bond in the Washington court precluded the raising of any
question concerning the liability of the vessel to forfeiture
elsewhere.' The fallacy here lies in supposing that the bond
took the place of the entire value of the vessel for any other
purpose thin the subject-matter of the suit in which the bond

THE HAYTIAIN REPUBLIC.
Opinion of the Coutt.

was given. The claim for forfeiture alleged in the cause
wherein the bond was given was alone covered by the bond,
and therefore, the assertion of a right to forfeiture for another
and distinct cause was not embraced in its condition, although
its penalty was the full value of the vessel. The authorities
are clear upon this point. In The Wild Ranger, decided by
Dr. Lushington, the facts were these: A collision occurred
between the Wild Ranger and the Coleroon. The Wild
Ranger was libelled by the owners of the other vessel, who
claimed £3500, and was released under bond. Subsequently
she was libelled by the owners of the cargo of the Coleroon.
In this last proceeding a decree of condemnation was rendered,
the vessel was sold, and the proceeds of sale were paid into
court. The price of the sale exceeded the sum of the damages
awarded to the owners of the cargo. Pending these proceedings under the second libal, the damages due to the owners
of the Coleroon were ascertained to be greater than the sum
of the bond given in their case. The owners of the Coleroon
thereupon claimed the balance realized by the sale of the
Wild Ranger, over and above the amount which had been
decreed to the owners of the cargo. Upon this state of facts
Dr. Lushington thus ruled:
"In order to justify me in directing these proceeds to be
paid to the owners of the ' Coleroon' it is not sufficient that
they should, show that a debt is due them from the owners of
the 'Wild Ranger'; they must either prove that they have
a lien upon the proceeds or produce a statute authorizing me
to apply these proceeds in satisfaction -f the judgment.they
have obtained. Now, there is no lien on these proceeds, by
reason of the action being in the nature of an action in' rem.
The proceeds of the ship sold are, in legal consideration, the
same as the ship itself; and the ship was wholly released from
all claim by the owners of the 'Coleroon' from the moment
that they took bail." The Wild Ranger, 2 New Rep. 402,
403.
In the T. F. Shnook, 51 Fed. Rep. 244, 245, the Shook had
been libelled by the Georgia and released under bond for
$4000, double the amount of the Georgia's claim. After the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

release of the Snook the Continental Insurance Company,which had paid for a loss on the cargo of the Georgia, intervened and asserted its right to be reimbursed or its expenditure out of the balance of the bond over and above the claim
of the Georgia. The court (Blodgett, J.), slid: "I do not
think this application on the part of the insurance company
should prevail, my-reasons being briefly that at the time the
bond was given on which the Snook was released no claim
was made in the proceedings except for damage to the hull
of the Georgia, and, in fact, it was not until about two months
after this bond had. been given that the insurance company
paid the loss on the cargo, and thereby acquired any right of
intervention or subrogation. The sureties on the bond must
be presumed to have signed it on the understanding that their
liability was only to satisfy the cause of action set out in the
libel, which was for the damages to the hull of the Georgia."
(See also The Union, 4 Blatchford, 90.)
There is no force in the argument that, as the suit in
Washington claimed the forfeiture of the vessel and the suit
in Oregon claimed, the same thing, there was a practical
identity between them. The fallacy results from a failure
to distinguish between the right and the remedy. True,
the remedy sought in Washington was the forfeiture of
the vessel, and the same remedy was invoked in Oregon,
but the causes of action upon which the remedy was prayed
in the two cases were entirely different.. As we have seen,
not only identity of relief, but identity of cause of action, is
essential to the plea of pending suit, and both are also necessary to the efficacy of the plea of the thing adjudged.
It is urged that, as the matters could have been joined in
the Washington suit, therefore they would have been con-'
eluded by a decree rendered therein, the argument being that
a judgment concludes not only the matters actually in controversy, but all those which might have been adjudged.
'In support of this contention we are referred
to Osborn v.
Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. '738; to Beloit v. 2forgan,
7 Wall 619, and other authorities. It is unnecessary to
examine these in detail. The proposition which they support

TEEI

HAYTIAN REPUBLIC,
Opinion of the Court.

is well stated in an excerpt from Freeman on Judgments,
quoted in the brief of counsel: 1" An adjudication is final and
conclusive, not only as to the matter actually determined,
but as to every other matter which the parties might have
litigated and have decided as incident to or essentially connected with the subject-matter of the litigation, and every
matter coming within the legitimate purview of the original.
action, both in respect to matters of claim and of defence."
If the deduction drawn by counsel from this and similar
language were true, then a judgment upon one cause of action
would be conclusive as to every other existing at the time,
although not embraced in the suit, and although the parties
were not obliged to join it therein. This would destroy the
right of parties to sue separately- upon distinct causes of
action, and would be subversive of the entire theory of the
thing adjudged. The mistake lies in construing the words
"which might have been raised," as applying to a. cause of
action other than the cause of action embraced in the suit.
In other words, the doctrine is that the. thing adjudged
includes not only the direct results of the cause of action
which the judgment concludes, but also all things necessarily
incident to and growing out -of that cause which the parties
might have joined in the suit. DoweZI v. Appegate, 152 U. S.
327, 343. Of course, whilst concluding that the separate
causes of the action here under consideration need not have
been joined in one suit, and that the suit in Washington was
no bar to the suit in Oregon, we must not be considered as
intimating that there could be more than one forfeiture of the
vessel. The distinct charges give rise to distinct causes of
action, but the forfeiture for either would have consummated
the proceedings.
Judgment reversed and case remandedfor further _proceedinng in accordancewith this opinion.
VOL. CLMV-9 ,

