OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

plaintiffs' case depends upon our adhering to the rule by
which we follow the construction of state courts in a state
matter on the one hand and departing from it on the other.
Judgmnent qj'med.
M .1. JUSTICE JACKSON, not having heard the argument, took
no part in the decision of this cause.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY
v. BABCOCK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THR
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 328. Submitted March 28, 189. -Decided

May 26,1894.

In an action by the representatives of a railroad employ6 against the company, to recover damages for the death of the employ6, caused by an
accident while in its employ, which is tried in a different State from that
in which the contract of employment was made and in which the accident took place, the right to recover and the limit of the amount of the
judgment are governed by the lex loci, and not by the lexfori.
A railroad company is bound to furnish sound machinery for the use of its
employ~s, and if one of them is killed in an accident caused by a defective snow-plough, the right of his representative to recover damages
therefor is not affected by the fact that some two weeks before he was
sent out with the defective machinery, he had discovered the defect, and
had notified the master mechanic of it, and the latter had undertaken to
have it repaired.
Some alleged errors in the charge of the court below are examined and held
to have no merit.

THE plaintiff below, who was the administrator of the
estate of Hugh M. Munro, sued in the District Court of the
Fourth Judicial District of Minnesota to recover $25,000
damages for the killing of Munro on the 10th day of January,
1888, at or near a station known as Gray Cliff on the
Northern Pacific Railway in the Territory of Montana. Tha
complaint contained the following allegations:

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. BABCOCK.

191

Statement of the Case.

"That on the said 10th day of January, 1888, the said
Hugh M. Munro, now deceased, was in the employ of the said
defendant corporation within the Territory of Montana in the
capacity of locomotive engineer for hire and reward by the
said defendant paid, and that the duty of running a locomotive engine upon said defendant's line of railway within said
Territory was by said defendant assigned to said Hugh M.
Munro on the said 10th day of January, 1888, and the
defendant directed and ordered the said Hugh M. Munro to
run a certain locomotive engine, the property of said defendant, known as engine No. 161, over and upon its said railway
in said Territory; that prior to and at the time the said
orders were so presented to said Munro there had been and
then was a severe snow storm in progress, and defendant's
line of railway over and upon which said Munro was so
ordered to run said engine was covered with drifting snow
theretofore accumulated thereon and then fast accumulating,
•notwithstanding which the said defendant corporation did
wilfully, improperly, negligently, and carelessly refuse and
neglect to send a snow-plow ahead of said engine No. 161 to
clear the snow and ice from said defendant's said track which
had accumulated and was accumulating thereon by reason of
said storm, so as to render the passage of said engine No. 161
safe and proper.
"That there was attached to the forward part of said
engine No. 161 a certain attachment known as a pilot-plow,
an appliance constructed thereon for the purpose of clearing
the railway of snow and ice accumulated thereon and render
safe the passage of the engine to which said plow was
attached over and upon said railway of defendant.
"That on the said 10th day of January, 1888, the said
defendant corporation knowingly, wilfully, negligently, and
carelessly allowed to be and remain upon said engine No. 161,
attached thereto as aforesaid, a certain pilot-plow, -the iron
braces, bolts, and rods of which were broken, imperfect, and
insufficient, by reason of which condition the said plow was
loose and insufficiently secured to the pilot of said engine,
allowing the said pilot to raise up and ride over obstructing

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

snow and ice instead of cutting through the same, as was the
intention of its construction, rendering the running of said
engine upon said railway dangerous, and that the said defendant well knew of the broken, defective, and dangerous
condition of said engine No. 161 at the time the said Hugh
M. Munro was so ordered to run the same upon and over said
railway, notwithstanding which the said defendant corporation did negligently and carelessly furnish to said Hugh M.
Munro said engine with the said broken and imperfect pilotplow attached thereto to run over and upon its said line of
railway.
"That while said Hugh M. Munro was running said engine
in performance of his duty as such engineer and pursuant to
the orders of said defendant corporation, and before daylight
on said 10th day of January, 1888, near Gray Cliff, in said
Territory of Montana, the said engine struck an accumulation
of snow and ice which said defendant had carelessly and
negligently allowed to accumulate upon its said railway track,
and the pilot-plow of said engine, by reason of its broken,
loose, and imperfect condition aforesaid, did ride upon said
accumulation of snow and ice, thereby derailing said engine
and throwing the same from said railway track, whereby the
said Hugh M. Munro was instantly killed.
"That the law of the Territory of Montana governing
actions for recovery of damages for causing death was on the
10th day of January, 1888, and now is sections 13 and 14 of
title II. of said chapter 1 of the first division of Code of Civil
Procedure of the Territory of Montana; which said sections
of said law of said Territory are in the words and figures
following, viz.:
"' SECTION 13. A father, or, in case of his death or desertion
of his family, the mother; may maintain an action for the
injury or death of a child, or a guardian for the injury or
death of his ward.
"'SizcioIx f4. Where the death of a person not being a
minor is caused by the wrongful act or neglect of another, his
heirs or personal representatives may maintain an action for

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. BABCOCK.

198

Statement of the Case.

damages against the person causing the death, or if such
person be employed by another person who is responsible for
his action, then also against such other person. In every action
under this and the preceding section such damages may be
given as under all the circumstances of the case may be just.'
The case was removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Minnesota, where an answer was
filed by the defendant, denying the averments of the complaint,
and alleging that the death of Munro was caused solely by
his negligence and carelessness, and not by the negligence of
the defendant or any of its servants or employ6s.
There was a verdict and judgment below in favor of the
plaintiff for $10,000. To review that judgment this writ of
error was sued out. The errors assigned were as follows:
"First. The court erred in charging the jury as follows:
'Did it fail to discharge any duty which the law imposed
upon it for the safety of its employ6, the plaintiff's intestate ?
If it did, and if such negligence was the cause of the death of
the engineer, Munro, then the plaintiff is entitled to recover.'
"Second. The court erred further in charging the jury
as follows: ' The charge in this complaint is that this death
was caused by the derailment of the engine, which took place
because the plow was out -F repair as described, or, at least,
that the defendant had not nsed reasonable care in clearing
its track, and that when the engineer in that condition arrived
at this cut, two miles from Gray Cliff, the snow had accumulated to such an extent that the engine was thereby derailed,
and that it was this negligence which caused the death.'
"Third. The court erred further in charging the jury as
follows: 'Many States have different laws. The law in this
State until recently was that only $5000 could be given in a
case of death. It has lately been increased to $10,000.'
"Fourth. The court erred further in charging the jury as
follows: ' If you believe from all the evidence in the case that
the plaintiff is entitled to recover, then it is for you to determine what compensation you will give for the death of the
plaintiff's intestate. The law of Montana limits it to such
an amount as you think it would be proper under al' circumVOL. CLV-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

stances of the case, and that is the law which will govern in
this case.'
"Fifth. The court erred further in refusing to give to the
jury the following request tendered by defendant's counsel:
'You, the jury, are instructed to find a verdict for the defendant.'
" Sixth. The court erred further in refusing to give to the
jury the following request tendered by defendant's counsel:
' The laws of Minnesota limit the amount of damages to be
recovered in this case to five thousand dollars.'
" Seventh. The court erred further in refusing to give to
ihe jury the following request tendered by defendant's counsel: 'The court instructs the jury that unless they find that
it was customary for defendant company to send a snow-plow
in advance of the trains running east from Livingston during
storms of this character, and that unless, further, the accident
occurred by reason of the negligent and careless failure of the
defendant to send such snow-plow in advance, they will find
for the defendant.'
"Eighth. The court erred further in refusing to give to the
jury the following request tendered by defendant's counsel:
' The court instructs the jury that, unless they find that the
defendant carelessly and negligently furnished to the deceased
engineer a plow attached to his engine, the iron bolts and
rods of which were broken, imperfect, and insufficient, and
that -by reason of which condition the said plow was loose
and insufficiently secured to the pilot of said engine, and that
when the said engine struck the snow at the cut, as testified
to, the pilot plow of said engine, by reason- of its said broken,
loose, and imperfect condition, did ride upon the accumulated
snow and ice at said cut, and that thereby the said engine
was thrown upon the track, the jury will find for the defendant.'"
.A r. James MoNcught, Mr. A. H. Garland,and 3-r. H Z
May for plaintiff in error.
The issue the defendant was obliged to meet in the case at

NORTHERN PACIFIC 'RAILROAD v. BABCOCK., 195
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

bar under 'the pleadings was, that the defendant had negligently furnished the plaintiff-with an engine with a defective
"pilot-plow," and that this defect in the pilot-plow was rendered dangerous by failure of defendant to keep its track clear
from snow and ice. It was not contended by plaintiff either
that the defective pilot-plow could have occasioned the accident except in conjunction with the accumulation of snow
and ice, or the accumulatio. of snow and ice on the track
could have.occasioned it except in conjunction with the defective pilot-plow. They were inseparably joined both in the
complaint and in the evidence.
The evidence shows clearly that Munro had full knowledge
of the storm, of the general condition of the track, and that
his means of knowing of the necessity of sending a snow-plow
ahead of his train were as full and complete as the defendant's. He had been on this particular run for a number of
years, he was a capable engineer, familiar with the country,
and he knew that no snow-plow had been sent ahead of his
train. It is an established rule on this subject that a servant
who has a reasonable opportunity to inform himself of defects,
is presumed, by remaining in the company's employ to have
assumed the risk of them. Pierce on Railroads, 379; Thompson on Negligence, 1008.
Upon the pleadings and upon the evidence, or upon either
or both, the question of negligence on the part of the company in not sending a snow-plough in advance of the train.or
in allowing the snow and ice, to accumulate upon its track
should be eliminated from the case as an independent factor
upon which plaintiff could recover.
So it is insisted that the law upon the facts of this case is
decidedly with the road, without going over distinctly and
separately the different errors specified in the record, and
the court should have directed the jury to find for the road
as requested by it. The case when examined in the light of
the authorities, is sufficiently discussed upon its merits, and
there is left but one more proposition to place before the
court.
The trial court erred in refusing to instruct the jury, as-

OCTOBER TERI , 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

asked by the road, "that the laws of Minnesota limit the
amount of damages to be recovered in this case to $5000."
Instead of that the court told the jury the recovery should
be estimated under the laws of Montana, where Munro was
killed.
It seems this action could have been brought in either
Montana or Minnesota. The party had his selection as to
the forum; that being so, it is but right and proper he should
have only the remedy afforded by the law of the forum of
his selection. Wharton, Conflict of Law, § 479, 747-754;
Gould's Pleading, 104-112, 131, et seq.; Story, Conflict of
Law, §§ 556, et seq.; Nonce v. Richmond &¢ Danville Railroad, 33 Fed. Rep. 429.
If the party can take advantage of a remedy afforded in
Minnesota, he must certainly take that remedy with the
burdens ordinarily attached to it in that State. Mostyn v.
Fabrigas,1 Smith's Ldg. Cas. 340; and Eng. and Am. notes.
-Mr. Reuben C. Benton and .Mr. Frank Healy for defendant in error.
MR.JusTino- WHrr,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
For convenience, we shall consider the various assignments
of error without regard to their numerical order.
The third, fourth, and sixth assignments involve the same
question, and may-be decided upon together.
The plaintiff's intestate was an engineer in the employ of
the defendant corporation in the Territory of Montana, and
the accident- by which he lost his life occurred there. The
law of the Territory of Montana at the tirn- provided as
follows:
"W~aere the death of a person not being a minor is caused
by the wrongful act or neglect of another his heirs or personal
representatives may maintain an action for damages against
the person causing the death, or if such person be employed
by another person who is responsible for his action, then also

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. BABCOCK. 197
Opinion of the Court.

against such other person. In every action under this and
the preceding section such damages may be given as under
all the circumstances of the case may be just." (Section 14,
title II, chapter I, first division of the Code of Civil Procedure
of the Territory of Montana.)
Under the law of MNfinnesota, when the death occurred, the
limit of recovery in case of death was $5000, but at the time
of the trial of the case in the court below this limit had
been increased to $10,000 by amendment of the Minnesota
statutes.
The question which those assignments of errors present is,
was the amount of damage to be controlled by the law of
the place of employment and where the accident occurred,
or by the law of the forum in 'which the suit was pending?
In the case of Herrick v. .Minneapolis & St. Louis Railway
Comnvany, reported in 31 Minnesota, 11, which involved the
question of whether the courts of Minnesota would enforce
and apply to a suit in that State for a cause of action originating in Iowa a law of the State of Iowa making railroad corporations liable for damages sustained by its employ~s in
consequence of the neglect of fellow-servants, the court said:
"The statute of another State has, of course, no extraterritorial force, but rights acquired under it will always, in
comity, be enforced, if not against the public policy of the
laws of the former. In such cases the law of the place where
the right was acquired, or the liability was incrred, will
govern as to the right of action; while all that pertains
merely to the remedy will be controlled by the law of the
State where the action is brought. And we think the principle is the same, whether the right of action be ex contractu
or ex delicto.
"The defendant admits the general rule to be as thus
stated, but contends that as to statutory actions like the
present, it is subject to the qualification that, to sustain the
action, the law of the forum and the law of the place where
the right of action accrued must concur in holding that the
act done gives a right of action. We admit that some textwriters - notably, Rorer on Interstate Law - seem to lay

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

down this rule, but the authorities cited generally fail to
sustain it.
"But it by no means follows that, because the statute of
one State differs from the law of another State, therefore it
would be held contrary to the policy of the laws of the latter
State. Every day our courts are enforcing rights under foreign contracts where the Zex loci contractus and the lex fori
are altogether different, and yet we construe these contracts
and enforce rights under them according to their force and
effect under the laws of the State where made. To justify a
court in refusing to enforce a right of action which accrued
under the law of another State, because against the policy of
our laws, it must appear that it is against good morals or natural justice, or that, for some other such reason, the enforcement
of it would be prejudicial to the general interests of our own
citizens. If the State of Iowa sees fit to impose this obligation upon those operating railroads within her bounds, and to
make it a condition of the employment of those who enter
their service, we see nothing in such a law repugnant either to
good.morals or natural justice, or prejudicial to the interests
of our own citizens."
This opinion of the Supreme Court of Minnesota is in accord
with the rule announced by Chief Justice Marshall in The
Antelope, 10 Wheat. 66. In referring to that case in Texas
& PaciflRailway v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593, the court said:
"The* courts of no country execute the penal laws of another.
But we have held that that rule cannot be invoked as applied
to a statute of this kind, which merely authorizes a civil action
to recover damages for a civil injury." The rule thus enunciated had been adopted in previous cases, and has since been
approved by this court. Smith v. Condry, 1 How. 28; The
China, 7 Wall. 53, 64; Dennick v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 11;
The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24, 29; Huntington v. Attrill, 146
U. S. 657, 670. Indeed, in Texas & Pacific Railway Co. v.
Cox, supra, Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, speaking for the court,
said: "The question, however, is one of general law, and we
regard it as settled in 1)ennick v. Railroad Co."

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. BABCOCK.

199

Opinion of the Court.

The contract of employment was made in Montana, and the
accident occurred in that State, while the suit was brought in
Minnesota. We think there was no error in holding that the
right to recover was governed by the lex loci, and not by the
lefori.
The fifth error assigned is the refusal to instruct the jury to,
find a verdict for the defendant.
The evidence tended to show that Munro was an engineer
in the employ of the railroad company at the town of Livingston ; that, as such engineer, he was driving engine No. 161
some time in the latter part of December; that whilst driving
the engine he discovered that an appliance known as the
"pilot-plow," which was attached to the engine, was out of
order, and in a dangerous condition. The purpose of such a
plow is to push the snow from the track, and if not properly
braced, as stated by one of the witnesses, it is likely to "rise
up and ride over the drift, instead of going through it, and the
natural result would be to throw the engine trucks from the
tracks." After Munro discovered that the plow -was defective, he called the attention of the foreman of the shop and
master mechanic to its condition. On or about the 2d day of
January, Munro was taken sick and did not pursue his occupation until January 9, when he reported for duty. At about
twelve o'clock that night, while a severe snow storm was
raging, Munro was sent for, by messenger, to take out a
passenger train. The train was delayed in getting away
from Livingston, and left that place about two o'clock in the
morning drawn by engine No. 161, with Munro in charge as
engineer. At a place called Gray Cliff the engine, in passing
through a cut, capsized, and Munro was killed.
There was no conflict of evidence as to the fact that the
plow was defective some two weeks before the accident, when
Munro so stated to the foreman and mister mechanic, but
there was a conflict upon the question whether or not it had
been subsequently repaired. Testimony was adduced by the
plaintiff tending to show that the necessary repairs had not
been made, and that at midnight on the 9th, when the engineer was called upon to take charge of the engine, the con-

OCTOBER TERMf, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

dition of the plow was quite as defective as it had been some
two weeks before, when the engineer had made his report of
its condition to the foreman. On the other hand, the defendant
offered testimony which tended to show that the repairs had
been made. It was proven that, at the time Munro was
called upon to take charge of the engine, on the night of the
9th, the round-house was so full of steam that the engine could
not have been critically examined by him. The presence of
this steam was due to the fact that there was no heating
apparatus in the round-house, and, therefore, steam was
allowed to escape therein, in order to prevent the engines
from freezing. There was some evidence that the effect of
the defective pilot-plow would be to throw the train from the
track whenever the engine struck an accumulation of snow
which had been in any way impacted, the resistance of the
snow having the effect of pushing the defective plow up and
thus derailing the engine. On the other hand, there was other
evidence that such a result could not have followed from the
defect in the plow.
Under this condition of proof it is clear that the instruction
was rightfully refused. The, obligation of the employer to
furnish to his employs sound implements is established. Hough.
v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213, 218; Union Paoifte Railway
Co. v. Daniels, 152 U. S. 684. And the fact that the engineer, when called upon at midnight on the 9th to perform
duty, took the engine out under the conditions surrounding it
in the round-house, implies no assumption by him of the risk
of defective machinery. The proof showed, or tended to
show, that notification by the engineer to the foreman and
master mechanic of the existence of the defect was given,
some ten or twelve days before the accident, and that at the
time there was an impression created in Munro's mind that it
was to be remedied. It also shows that Work of this character
was usually done in the shops at Livingston, over which the
foreman presided and in which the engine lay when the notice
was given. From the time of the notice up to the time when
the engineer was called upon to use the engine he was not on
duty, but was absent on sick leave. As the employs had

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. BABCOCK.

201

Opinion of the Court.

given notice of the defect to the proper officer whose duty it
was to make the repairs, and the impression had been conveyed to him that these would be made, he had a right to
assume that they had been made, and to act upon that assumption. The mere fact of his taking the engine out at
midnight ,under the circumstances did not of itself, unsupported by other proof, imply an assumption by him of the risk
resulting from the dangerous and defective condition of the
attachment to the engine. IlougL v. Railway Co., 100 U. S.
225.
The first assignment of error is, we think, without merit.
The language of the charge complained of is: "Did it [the
defendant company] fail to discharge any duty which the
law imposed upon it for the safety of its employ6, the plaintiff's intestate? If it did, and if such negligence was the
cause of the death of the engineer, Munro, then the plaintiff is
entitled to recover." Separated from the context this general
language might have misled, but when considered in proper
connection with the rest of the instruction given, it could
not have done so.
The eighth error assigned was to a refusal of the court to
give the following charge: "The court instructs the jury that
unless they find that the defendant carelessly and negligently
furnished to the deceased engineer a plow attached to his
engine, the iron bolts and rods of which were broken, imperfect, and insufficient, and that by reason of which condition
the said plow was loose and insufficiently secured to the pilot
of said engine, and that when the said engine struck the
snow at the cut, as testified to, the pilot-plow of said engine,
by reason of its said broken, loose, and imperfect condition,
did ride upon the accumulated snow and ice at said cut, and
that thereby the said engine was thrown from the track,
the jury will find for the defendant." The charge which the
court gave was substantially as requested, and correctly stated
the law. It was as follows: "The court instructs you that
unless you find that the defendant negligently and carelessly
furnished to the deceased engineer a plow attached to his
engine, the iron bolts and rods of whici were broken, imper-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

feot, and insufficient, and by reason of said imperfect condition, when the engine struck the snow at the cut, as testified
to, the engine and tender were derailed by reason thereof,
which caused the accident in question, then the defendant
would be entitled to a verdict. The claim is that the snow
had accumulated to such an extent in that cut that when the
engine struck it, the plow being in that condition in which
it was, it was unable to clear the track, the accumulation of
snow being so great, and that, as described by some witnesses,
it rode up and threw the engine off the track from the fact
that the front trucks of the engine could not ride over it.
I instruct you that unless the cause of this derailment and
the throwing over the engine was the imperfect condition of
this plow, that it could not clear the cut from the snow which
had accumulated there, but the engine was thrown over and
thereby death ensued - unless this is found to be true to the
satisfaction of the jury, the defendant would be entitled to
a verdict." We can see no material variance between the
charge requested and the charge which was given.
The seventh error assigned is to the refusal of the court
to instruct the jury "that unless they find that it was customary for defendant company to send a snow-plow in
advance of the trains running east from Livingston during
storms of this character, and that unless, further, the accident
occurred by reason of the negligent and careless failure of
the defendant to send such snow-plow in advance, they will
find for the defendant." This instruction was, of course,
justly refused,- because it implied that the defendant was entitled to a verdict, if, contrary to its custom, it had not sent
a snow-plow in advance, of the train, without reference to
the defective condition of the pilot-plow, which was the
cause of action upon which the plaintiff relied. Indeed,
although the petition charged negligence on the part of the
defendant in failing to send a snow-plow ahead of the train,
the action, as stated in the complaint, was predicated upon
the defect in the machinery, or pilot-plow - the failure to
send the snow-plow being alleged as a mere incident, or remote cause of damage. And this distinction was elucidated

NORTTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. BABCOCK. 203
Opinion of the Court.

with great clearness in the charge of the court. It nowhere
indicated that there could be any liability on the part of the
defendant arising from the failure to send a snow-plow ahead
of the train, as a distinct and substantive cause of action.
It referred to the failure to send a snow-plow ahead of the
train merely as the reason why it was necessary to have
the pilot-plow attached to the engine. The court said: " The
charge in this complaint is that this death was caused by the
derailment of the engine, which took place because the plow
was out of repair as described, or at least that the defendant
had not used reasonable care in clearing its tracks, and that
when the engineer with the engine in that condition arrived
at this cut, two miles from Gray Cliff, the snow had accumulated to such an extent that the engine was thereby derailed,
and that it was this negligence on the part of the defendant
that caused the death." In other words, throughout the
whole charge, the court instructed the jury that the liability,
if any, must result from the defective condition of the machinery or pilot-plow of the engine; and where it referred
to the failure to send a snow-plow ahead of the train as an
act of negligence, treated it as negligence giving rise only
remotely, and not proximately, to the injury; the proximate
cause being the defectiv., machinery, and the remote aocumnlation of snow, which rendered the use of the engine unsafe
because of the defect in the pilot-plow attached thereto.
Judgment qffl?-med.
MR. JUsTICE JACKSoN, not having heard the argument, took
no part in the decision of this cause.

