OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

"Without quoting, we cite the following cases: Trustees of
Watertown v. Cowen, 4 Paige, 510; 2 Stra. 1004; Commonwealth v. Alberger, 1 Whart. 469; Pomeroy v. X[ills, 3 Vermont, 279; Abbott v. Same, 3 Vermont, 521; Adams v. S. cf&
iF. 1R. 1. Co., 11 Barb. 414; Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87;
Godfrey v. City of Alton, 12 Illinois, 29 ; Sedgwick's Constitutional and Statute Law, 343, 344; llaight v. City of Zfeokuk,
.4 Iowa, 199; Grant v. City of Davenport, 18 Iowa, 179;
.e Clerc v. Trustees of Gallipolis, 7 Ohio, 217; Common
Coutncil of Indianapolis v. Cross, 7 Indiana, 9; Rowans, Executor, v. Portland, 8 B. Mon. 232; Augusta v. Perkins, 3
B. Mon. 437."
I do not care to add more, but for these reasons withhold
my assent to the opinion.
I am authorized to say that MRh. JUSTICE BRowN concurs in
this dissent.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, having been of counsel in the court
below, took no part in the consideration and decision of this
case on appeal.

RIGGLES v. ERNEY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 335.

Argued April 2, 3, 1894. -Decided

May 26, 1894.

Part-performance of an oral contract for the conveyance of an interest in
real estate in the District of Columbia takes it out of the operation of
the statute of frauds, and authorizes a court of equity to decree a full
and specific performance of it, if proved.

THIS was a bill in equity for the specific performance of
an oral contract for the sale of land.
The bill made substantially the following case: Thomas
lRiggles, ancestor both of plaintiffs and defendant, died .in
1863, leaving a will in which he made the following devises:

RIGGLES v. ERNEY.
Statement of the Case.

"I will and devise that my house and premises which I
now occupy, situated in the city of Washington in the District
of Columbia, being lot numbered seven (7) and part of lot
numbered eight (8) in square numbered one hundred and
ninety-nine (199), together with all the household and kitchen
furniture and other personal property that may be on said
premises at the time of my decease shall be and remain in the
possession of my wife, Catharine Riggles, during her lifetime, for the benefit of herself and our four children, named
Thomas, Cathqrine, :Maria, and Hannah Riggles, respectively;
and, after th6 death of nly said wife, the said house and
premises to remain in the hands of my executor, hereinafter
named, to be by him used for the benefit of the above-named
four children until the youngest one of them surviving shall
become twenty-one years of age; provided, that when the
said Thomas shall arrive at twenty-one years of age, and
when either of the said daughters shall be married, then, and
in either such case, the benefit arising from said property
shall be exclusively for the use of such of said daughters
as may then be unmarried; and' after the death of my
said wife, and the said youngest child shall attain the age
of twenty-one years, then the said house and premises I
will and bequeath unto my son Thomas Riggles, with the
express- provision that such of my aforenamed daughters
as may then be unmarried shall be taken care of by my said
son Thomas; and, in case the said Thomas lRiggles shall
depart this life before the said three sistersi then the said
house and premises to be sold, and the proceeds be divided
equally among the said three sisters or the survivors of
them.
"Item: I will and devise that all the lots of ground belonging to me situate in square numbered one hundred and
seventy-nine (179) in said city of Washington which may
remain unsold and disposed of by my said executor at sunh
time and in such manner as his discretion may dictate as
most for the advantage of my wife and children aforenamed,
and the amounts that may be realized therefrom, after paying
all necessary expenses of my wife and family, be by him

OCTOBER TERN, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

invested at his discretion for the benefit of my said wife and
four children or as many of them as shall remain unmarried;
and after 'the death of my said wife, and our four children
shall have attained the age of twenty-one years if any of said
property in square one hundred and seventy-nine remains
unsold, and also any surplus that may then remain from the
proceeds of said square one hundred and seventy-nine, to be
divided between my other children, John5 James, and William
Biggles, and my daughters, Mary Ann Miller and Sarah
Turton; and it is further my wish and desire that should the
residue remaining from the sale of my lots in square one
hundred and seventy-nine be more than the value of said
house and premises I now occupy in square one hundred and
ninety-nine, then, and in that case, I will and devise that my
son Thomas and my said daughters Catharine, Maria, and
Hannah Biggles shall receive from the proceeds of square
one hundred and seventy-nine, such portion of such proceeds
as make all their shares alike or equal to each other and to
the shares of my other children."
Under this will, John B. Turton subdivided square 179, sold
portions of the same and died, leaving lots from 1 to 42 and
from 61 to 80, inclusive, unsold and subject to a deed of trust
executed by him to secure the repayment of certain moneys
borrowed. Such moneys, as well as the prodeeds of the lots
sold, were alleged to have been appropriated to the support
of the Widow and her four children.
In 1873, the widow and her four children, Thomas, Maria,
Catharine, and Hannah, desiring to have the property in
square 179 sold for the purpose of a partial division of the
estate, and for the purpose of paying certain indebtedness
they had incurred, as well as certain taxes and assessments
upon the homestead, it was proposed and agreed that, notwithstanding the devises in the will, the entire estate should
be equally divided between the widow and the children of
the testator; that the lots in square 179 should be at once
sold for the payment of the incumbrances, taxes, and assessments upon the whole realty and of the indebtedness of the
widow and her four children, and that the net proceeds

RIGGLES b. ERNEY.
Statement of the Case.

should be divided between the widow and all the children,'
and that the homestead should be retained for the use and
occupation of the widow and her four children until her
death, and the death or marriage of her daughters, when the
said homestead property should be sold and the proceeds
divided among all the children of the testator.
In pursuance of this arrangement, a deed was executed,
whereby all the parties in interest conveyed to John Tiggles
and George W. Evans the remaining lots in square 179 in
trust to sell and dispose of the same, to pay and discharge all
taxes and assessments due upon the lots in both squares, and
after paying and discharging all liens, taxes, and assessments
upon all the property, to distribute the remainder of the proceeds between the widow and children in equal proportions,
share and share alike, and "that the said deed was made and
executed by all of the parties, including the defendant Hannah Erney, (who executed the said deed as Hannah Riggles,)
upon the distinct agreement and condition that whenever
under the said will and testament that the said property in
square 199 should be sold, the proceeds of such sale- should
be applied and distributed in the same manner." The trustees, Riggles and Evans, proceeded under this arrangement,
sold the lots in square 179, from time to time, paid the liens
and incumbrances upon the property, as well as taxes and
assessments; -paid and discharged the indebtedness contracted by the widow and her four children, including
defendant Hannah Erney, for their maintenance, and also
advanced to the widow the further sum of $500, the said
payments on account of the said homestead property, and
of the maintenance and support of the widow and her
four children, amounting to nearly $3000. After such
payments, the *trustees divided the remainder of the proceeds among all the children of the testator; the shares so
paid to each of the devisees being over $3000, and such distribution being made strictly in pursuance of the original
agreement.
That the period has arrived when the lots in square 199
should be sold, and the proceeds divided; that the widow is

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

dead, as well as three of her four children, leaving Hannah
Erney sole survivor of such devisee; that plaintiffs have
applied to defendant Hannah to carry out this agreement,
but she refuses to acknowledge it, and claims that, under the
provisions of the will, she, as the sole survivor of the devisees
of the lots in square 199, is entitled to all of said property
and the proceeds thereof. Plaintiffs further averred that her
agreement to sell the homestead property was the only consideration for the appropriation to the widow and her four
children of the proceeds of sale of the property in square 179;
that under the will defendant and her co-devisees were not
entitled to any portion of such property except for their current support, while the daughters were unmarried, and that
plaintiffs by making the agreement gave the defendant Hannah and her co-devisees $18,000- much more than the entire
value of the homestead property; that it was the intention
of the testator that in the ultimate division of the estate all
the children should have an equal share; that such intention
was recognized and was the basis upon which the agreement
was made, and that the distribution of the proceeds of the
sales of square 179 was in partial execution of such intention
and agreement.
The prayer of the bill was that defendants Hannah and
her husband might be enjoined from disposing of the
property in square 199 until the rights of the parties
could be definitely settled, and that such property might
be sold and the proceeds distributed upon the basis of the
agreement.
Defendant Hannah Erney in her separate answer admitted
signing the deed for the sale of the remaining lots in square
179, but denied there was any agreement or condition that
the homestead should be sold and the proceeds divided in the
same manner.
Replication was filed, proofs taken, and, the case coming
on to be heard in the court below, the bill was dismissed
upon the ground that the statute of frauds presented
an insurmountable barrier to relief. Plaiitiffs appealed
to the General Term, by which the decree of the special

RIGGLES v. ERNEY.
Argument for Appellees.

term was affirmed, and the plaintiffs appealed to this
court.'
Mr. .Tames G. Payne for appellants.
Mr. Edwin B. Bay for appellees.
The statute of frauds in Maryland requires written evidence of the contract, or a court cannot decree performance.
The words of the statute are, "unless the agreement upon
which such action shall be brought, or some memorandum or
note thereof, shall be in writing, signed by the party to be
charged therewith, or by some other person by him thereto
lawfully authorized." Bariy v. Coombe, 1 Pet. 640. And to
authorize a decree for the specific performance of a parol
agreement within the statute, on the ground of part performance, it is indispensable, not only that the acts which are
alleged to be part performance, but the contract itself, as stated
in the bill, should be established by clear and definite proof.
In Smith v.Crandall,20 Maryland, 482, in which reference is

made to 3 Maryland, 490, it is said that where a party claims
to take the case out of the statute of frauds, on the ground of
part performance of the contract, he must make out by clear
and satisfactory proof the existence of the contract as laid in
the bill, and the act of part performance must be of the idenS'The judgment of the court below was as follows:
"This cause having been duly calendared and argued and submitted
and the proofs read and considered, and it appearing to the court that the
provisions of the statute of frauds in respect to contracts for and conveyances of interests in real estate present an insurmountable barrier to granting the relief prayed upon the case as made in the bill and attempted to be
made out in proof, it is this 14th of November, A.D. 1887, ordered, adjudged,
and decreed that the bill in this cause be dismissed with costs."
The judgment of the appellate court was as follows:
" This cause came on to be heard at this term of the court on appeal by
the complainants, John Riggles et als. from the decree passed therein on
the 14th day of November, 1887, dismissing the bill with costs, and was
argued by counsel for the respective parties and submitted. Upon consideration thereof it is now here, this 18th day of February, A.D. 1890, adjudged and decreed and is hereby affirmed with costs, to be taxed by the
clerk."

250

0OOOBER TnRM, 1893.
Argument for Appellees.

tical contract set up. It is not enough that the act is evidence
of some agreement, but it must be iinequivocal and satisfactory
evidence of,the particular agreement charged in the bill.
Lxi Mundorf v. Kilbourn, 4 Maryland, 459, 462, the court
says: "We need not multiply authorities to show that in cases
for specific performance the complainant must establish the
very contract set up in the bill, and that all acts of part performance relied upon to take the case without operation of the
statute of frauds, must be clear and definite, and refer exclusively to the alleged agreement."
In Sloddert v. Bowie, 5 Maryland, 18j 35, the court said: "No
rule is better established than that every agreement, to merit
-the interposition of a court of equity in its favor, must be plain,
just, reasonable, bona fide, certain in all its parts, mutual, etc.
And if any of these .ingredients are wanting, courts of equity
will not decree, a specific performance." See also Wadsworth
v. .Manning, .4 Maryland, 59 ; Wraters v. Howard, 8 Gill, 262,
275; Hall v. Hall,1 Gill, 383; Owingsv. Baldwin, 8 Gill, 337;
Beard v. Linticum, 1 Maryland Oh. 345; Hopkins v. Roberts,
54 Maryland, 312.
The defendant denies positively any agreement whatever to
dispose of the homestead, and there is only uncertain proof
that she was 'aware of such agreement. Those who testify,
state that it was talked of loud enough for her to hear it, but
concerning her understanding of it they only conjecture.
In the testimony there is no proof of that clear and decisive
character which should govern a court, in the exercise of its
discretion, to decree a specific performance.
Mr. Justice Grier, in Purcellv. Coleman, 4 Wall. 513, 517,
in his opinion, says: "A mere breach of a parol promise will
not make a case for the interference of a chancellor.
When he r.equests a court to interfere

.

.

.

he should be

'held to full, satisfactory, and undubitable proof of the contract
and of its-terms.' Such proof must be clear, definite, and con-clusive and must show a contract leaving no jus deliberandior
&m8 ponitntie. It cannot be made by mere hearsay or
evidence of the declarations of a party to mere strangers to
the transactioin, in chance conversation, which the witness had

RIGGLES v. ERINEY.
Opinion, of the Court.

no reason to'recollect from interest in the subject-matter which
may have been imperfectly heard or inaccurately remembered,
perverted, or altogether fabricated; testimony therefore impossible to be contradicted.
In WTliams v. Morris, 95 U. S. 444, even though written
receipts were introduced to identify parties to the property,
the testimony was not sufficient to prove part performance.
In Bigelow v. A'mes, 108 U. S. 10, while there was no
written contract, yet the facts were such that left no jus deiberandi,and showed such part performance that took the
case out of the operation of the statute. There is, however,
a written memorandum in this case which describes the
property and states the consideration - signed by the parties
to the transaction.
In Beckwita v. Talbot, 95 U. S. 289, the defendant in that
actioh was charged on a memorandum in which his name was
not found, but letters were produced in evidence which proved
a sufficient ratification of the memorandum to comply with
the statute and 'the court below so held and was sustained by
this court.
In Grafton v. Cummings, 99 U. S. 100, even though there
are memoranda and writings, yet this court held them defective and not sufficient to take the case from the operation of
the statute.
YR.

JusTICE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The sole question is whether the plaintiffs have made out
such a case as entitles them under the statute of frauds to. a
specidc performance of the alleged agreement. for the sale of
the homestead property in square 199, and an equal division
of the proceeds.
Thomas Riggles, the ancestor, was possessed of two parcels of land in Wa'shington, viz.: Certain lots in square 199,
containing the homestead, worth from six to eight thousand
dollars, and a large number of lots in square 179, then unimproved, and worth about forty thousand dollars.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Thle lots in square 199, the homestead, he left to his widow
for life, for the benefit of herself and her four children; after
her death, to his executors, for the benefit of -his four children
until the youngest should become of age, and then to his son
Thomas, charged with the care and support of the unmarried
daughters by his second wife; and in case of the death of
Thomas before his sisters, the property was to be sold and the
proceeds equally divided among these sisters.
The lots in square 179 were also charged with the maintenance and necessary expenses of his wife and her four
children during her life, and after her death, with the support
of the' children, until the youngest should become of age.
The executor was given power to dispose of all of 179 if, in
his discretion, it should become necessary to apply the same
to, such use, and any surplus that should remain 'was to be
divided among testator's children by his first wife, but should
such residue remaining from 179 be more than the value of
the homestead property, the children by the second wife
should receive from such proceeds such portions as to make
their shares alike or equal to each other, and the shares of the
other children.
Thomas Riggles, Jr., son of the second wife, died December
27, 1883; Catharine Riggles, widow, died November, 1884.
Hannah Riggles Erney, by the death of her brother and
sisters, is the sole survivor of the children of the second wife,
and entitled to the homestead under the will.
Plaintiffs' testimony tended to show that, at a meeting of
the widow and all the heirs of the estate in June, 1873, it was
agreed that the entire estate should be equally divided among
the widow and children; that the lots in square 179 should
be immediately sold, and the net proceeds, after payment of
incumbrances, taxes, and assessments upon the whole estate,
should be divided between the widow and all the children;
and that the homestead lots in square 199 should be retained
for the use of the widow and her children until her death, or
the death or'marriage of the daughters, when this property
should also be sold, and the proceeds divided among all the
children. This agreement, so far as it concerned lots in 179,

RIGGLES v. ERNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

was carried out; so far as it concerned square 199 it was
denied and the statute pleaded.
But if the contract was made, as claimed, the sale and division of proceeds of the lots in square 179 was a part performance of such contracts under the decisions both of this court
and of Maryland. The case of Caldwell v. Carrington,9 Pet.
86, is not dissimilar. This was a bill filed by Carrington's
heirs in the Circuit Court for the District of Kentucky, claiming certain lands in that State, under a parol agreement, by
which Carrington agreed with Williams for an exchange of
lands which Carrington owned in Virginia for certain military
lands in Kentucky. Williams took possession of the lands
in Virginia and sold a part of them. The bill prayed that
the heirs of Williams should be decreed to convey the military lands in Kentucky. This court held that, although the
statute of frauds avoids parol contracts for lands, yet the
complete execution of the contract in this case by Carrington,
by conveying to Williams the lands lie had agreed to give
him in exchange, prevented the operation of he statute. See
also GalbraitA v. .McLain, 84 Illinois, 379 ; Paine v. Wilcox,
16 Wisconsin, 202. So in Neale v. .feales,9 Wall. 1, a parol
gift of land was made to a donor, who took possession, and,
induced by the promise of the donor to give a deed of it,
made valuable improvements on the property. It was held
that the donor, having stipulated that the expenditure should
be made, this should be regarded as a consideration or condition of the gift, and a specific performance was decreed. To
same effect is Hardestyv. Richardson,44 Maryland, 617. So in
Bigelow v. Arm es, 108 U. S.10. Armes proposed in writing to
Bigelow to exchange his real estate for Bigelow's with a cash
bonus. The latter accepted in writing. Armes complied in
full; Bigelow in part only. It was held to be unnecessary to
determine whether the written memorandmun was sufficient, as
it was the duty of the court, in view of the full performance
by Armes, to decree performance by Bigelow. There are
other cases in this court in which the evidence was deemed
insufficient to justify a decree for specific performance, but
the principle of the cases above cited has never been ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the' Court.

Colson, v. TAomp8dn, 2 Wheat. 336; Purcell v.
tioned.
.Miner, 4 Wall. 513; Grayton v. Cummings, 99 U. S. 100.
Indeed, the rule is too well settled to require further citation
of authorities, that, if the parol agreement be clearly and
satisfactorily proven, and the plaintiff, relying upon such
agreement and the promise of the 'defendant to perform his
part, has done acts in part performance of such agreement,
to the knowledge of the defendant - acts whiQh have so
altered the relations of the.parties as to prevent their restoration to their former condition - it would be a virtual fraud
to allow the defendant to interpose the statute as a defence
and thus to secure to himself the benefit of what has been
done in part performance, It must appear, however, that
the acts done by the plaintiff were done in pursuance of the
contract, and for the purpose of carrying it into execution,
and with the consent or knowledge of the other party. While
acts done prior to. the contract or preparatory thereto, such
as delivering abstracts of titles, measuring the land, drawing
up deeds, etc., are not regarded as sufficient part performance,
it is otherwise with such acts as taking open possession of the
land sold, or making permanent or valuable improvements
thereon, or doing other acts in relation-to the land.manfestly
inconsistent with any other theory than that of carrying out
the parol undertaking.
Plaintiff introduced the testimony of three witnesses, all of
which tended to show that a meeting of all the heirs was held
the last of May, 1873, at the homestead, at which it was agreed
to sell square 179, pay off the indebtedness, and divide the
balance. The indebtedness consisted of taxes upon square
179 and a mortgage debt upon it, the indebtedness of the
widow, and the taxes due upon the homestead occupied by
her in square 199. There was another meeting in June, at
which there was-a deed read which had been prepared. John
Riggles, who appeared for the first wife, objected to the deed
upon the ground that it wag not in accordance with the will,
when Mr. Evans, who appeared on behalf of the children Qf
the second wife, promised that the children should share and
share alike in the house at the death of the mother, and said

RIGGLES v. ERNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

"that it would not be fair for the children of the last wife to
do all the waiting and the children of the first wife get their
share at once; that it would only be equitable for the children
of the first wife to do part of the waiting and share equally
with them, so that it. would be literally carried out, and we
consented to divide equally upon that basis, and would have
refused to have- sold any more than sufficient to pay off the
indebtedness unless they would agree to this equitable division,
which was agreed to by all the heirs without any objection.)
This agreement, so far as concerned square 179, was carried
out, and defendant Hannah was paid about $3000 as her share
of the proceeds of the sale. Mr. Evans, who, as before stated,
appeared for the children -of the second wife, among whom
was defendant Hannah, after, stating that it was understood
that the homestead was to be sold, says that "it was a distinct and positive verbal agreement, thoroughly understood
and consented to by all without reservation; we did not wish
to send the deed back for a change, fearing that delays were
dangerous; we were anxious to settle. Q. Do you know that
Hannah Riggles Erney understood positively that she was
consenting and agreeing to break the terms of her father's
will?

A. I do not know that she did.

.

.

.

As I said

before, I represented the children by the second. wife, and
my wife's interest, like Mrs. Erney's, I was bound to protect
in every way. I, therefore, consulted with her, explained the
terms of the deed, read the will to her, and asked her, as well
as the other heirs by the second wife, if she thoroughly understood and consented to selling the property. She was satisfied, and so expressed herself.". This testimony was also
corroborated by Sarah A. Turton, one of the- children by the
first wife.
The only testimony to the contrary is that of defendant
herself, who'always understood that the land was sold "to
pay the indebtedness of mother, and then it was to be divided
equally, and that is all." She remembered of but one meeting,
but acknowledged that Mr. Evans was her representative in
the transaction. She denied entering into any contract con-

OCTOBER TERmi, 1893.
Syllabus.

cerning the disposition of the land, but her testimony is quite
unsatisfactory and her memory evidently defective.
By the terms of the will square 179, after being charged
with the maintenance and support of the widow and her four
children during her life, and after her death until the youngest should become of age, was to be sold and the proceeds to
be divided between the children of the first wife, with a proviso that, if the lands so sold should exceed the value of the
homestead lands, the children of the second wife should receive enough to make the shares of all equal.
The ultimate objects of the will were, ftrst to provide for
the maintenance and expenses of the wife and younger children until they became of age; and, second, that the property
should then be equally divided between them. This equality
would certainly be defeated, if the defendant hannah were
permitted to share equally in the proceeds of square 179, and
in addition to receive the whole of the proceeds of square 199.
It seems to us altogether improbable that the children of the first
wife would have entered into this arrangement, without an
understanding that they were also to share in the proceeds of
the homestead.
The decree of the court below is, therefore, reversed, and the
case remandedfor further p'oceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
MR. JusTIoE BREwER and

MR. JUSTICE WHITE dissented from

this opinion.

MORAN v. STURGES.
ERROR

TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT OF THE

No. 892. Argued March 13, 14, 1894. -Decided

STATE

OF NEW YORK.

May 26,1894.

On the 31st day of July, 1891, proceedings were commenced in the Supreme
Court of the State of New York for the voluntary dissolution of a Steam
Tow Boat Company, a corporation organized under the laws of that State,

