REAGAI

v.- MERCANTILE TRUST CO.
Counsel for Appellants.

pay the interest on the bonded debt, and that the proposed
tariff, as enforced, will so diminish the earnings that they will
not be able to pay one-half the interest on the bonded debt
above the operating expenses; and that such an averment so
supported will, in the absence of any satisfactory showing to
the contrary, sustain a finding that the proposed tariff is unjust and unreasonable, and a decree reversing it being put
in force.
Itfollowsfrom these considerationsthat the decree as entered
must be reversed in so far as it restrainsthe -ailroad commission from discharging the duties imposed by this act,
and from proceeding to establish reasonable rates and Pegulation8; but must be afirmred so far only as it restrains
the defendants from enforcing the rates already established. The costs in this court will be divided.

REAGAN v. MEROANTILE TRUST COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE OIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 1167. Submitted April 13,1894.-Decided May 26,1894.
Beagan v. Farmers' Loan and Trust Co., ante, 362, affirmed, followed, and
applied to the facts in this case.
The fact that the Texas and Pacific Railway Company is a corporation
organized under a statute of the United States, receiving therefrom the
corporate power to charge and collect tolls and rates for transportation,
does not remove that company from the operation of the act of the
legislature of Texas of April 3, 1891, establishing a railroad commission, as to business done wholly within the State; but such business is
subject to the control of the State in all matters of taxation, rates, and
other police regulations.
As the case does not present facts requiring it, no opinion is expressed on
the power of the commission as to rates on points on the railway outside of Texas.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
M.Ar. C. A. CuZberson, Attorney General of the State of
Texas, Mr. B. C. Coke, and Mr. WF S. Simkins for appellants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. John F. Dillon, Mr. E. -B. Kruftechnitt, and Mr. John
J..MeCook for the Mercantile Trust Company, appellee.Mr. Winslow S. Pierce, -Mr. 1?. 8. Lovett, and Mr. T. J.
Freeman for the Texas and Pacific Railway Company,
appellee.
MR. JUSTiOF BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

The case is similar to that just decided, in which the same
parties were appellants and the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company and the International and Great Northern Railroad
Company, appellees. It was commenced by the Mercantile
Trust Company in the same court against the appellants and
the Texas and Pacific Railway Company, with like purpose
to restrain the enforcement of the railroad commission act,
and with like result. The Mercantile Trust Company was
trustee in a deed of trust executed by. the Texas and Pacific
Railway Company to secure an issue of bonds, and, as a citizen of -New York, invoked the jurisdiction of the Federal
court.
There are some matters of difference between the two cases
which call for special notice. The Texas and Pacific Railway
is a corporation organized under the laws of the United
States, (16 Stat. 573,) and by reason of that fact it is earnestly
insisted by counsel for it and the Trust Company that it is
not subject to the control of the State, even as to rates for
transportation wholly within the State. The argument is
that i receives all its franchises from Congress; that among
those franchises is the right to charge and collect tolls, and
that the State has not the power, therefore, in any manner
to limit or qualify such franchise. This is an important question and deserves consideration, even though in respect to
other matters the facts should present a case exactly parallel
to that just decided and calling for a like decision; because
if the State has no control in the matter the decree should
not be affirmed in part but in toto.
We are of the opinion that the contention of the railway

REAGAN v. MERCANTILE TRUST CO.
Opinion of the Court.

and Trust Companies cannot be sustained, and that- the
reasoning in the cases of Thomson v. Pacofe Railroad, 9
Wall. 579, and Railroad Company v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5,
36, leads to this conclusion.
In the first of those cases these facts appeared: The Union
Pacific Railway Company, (Eastern Division,) a corporation
created by the legislature of Kansas, received government aid
in bonds and land, and, thus aided, constructed its road to
become one link in the transcontinental line known as the
Union Pacific system. After its construction, the legislature
of Kansas having enacted a law laying certain taxes upon its
property, a bill was filed to restrain the collection of those
taxes, on the ground that the property of the company was
mortgaged to the United States, and that it, under the Congressional grant, was bound to perform certain duties and
ultimately pay five per cent of its net earnings to the United
States, an obligation which would be greatly hindered if the
taxes imposed should be collected. But this contention was
not sustained, and while it was said by the Chief Justice,
delivering the opinion of the court, that Congress had the
power to provide an exemption from state taxation in such a.
case, there was no exemption in the absence of legislation to
that effect. This decision was followed by that in the other
case, in which a like exemption was sought of the property
belonging to the Union Pacific Railroad Company, a corporation created, like the Texas and Pacific Railway Company,
by an act of Congress, and also like the Kansas Company,
aided by the government in lands and bonds, but here, too,
by a majority of the court, the claim of exemption was
denied. Mr. Justice Strong, in delivering the opinion of the
court, said:
"It is, therefore, manifest that exemption of Federal agencies from state taxation is dependent, not upon the nature of
the agents, or upon the mode of their constitution, or upon the
fact that they are agents, but upon the effect of the tax; that
is, upon the question whether the tax does in truth deprive
them of power to serve the government as they were intended to serve it, or does hinder the efficient exercise of

OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

their power. A tax upon their property has no such necessary
effect. It leaves them free to discharge the duties they have
undertaken to perform. A tax upon .their operations is a
direct obstruction to the exercise of Federal powers.
"In this case the tax is laid upon the property of the railroad company precisely as was the tax complained of in
Thompson v. Union Pacific. It is not imposed upon the
franchises or the right of the company to exist and perform
the functions for which it was brought into being. Nor is it
laid upon any act which the company has been authorized to
do. It is not the transmission of dispatches, nor the transportation of United States mails, or troops, or munitions of war
that is taxed, but it is exclusively the real and personal
property of the agent, taxed in common with all other property in the State of a similar character. It is impossible to
maintain that this is an interference with the exercise of any
power belonging to the general government, and, if it is not,
it is prohibited by no constitutional implication."
Similarly we think it may be said that, conceding to Congress the power to remove the corporation in all its operations
from the control of the State, there is in the act creating this
company nothing which indicates an intent on the part of
Congress to so remove it, and there is nothing in the enforcement by the State of reasonable rates for transportation wholly
within the State which will disable the corporation from discharging all the duties and exercising all the powers conferred
by Congress. By the a ct o incorporation Congress authorized the company to build its road through the State of
Texas. It knew that, when constructed, a part of its business
would be the carrying of persons and property from points
within the State to other points also within the State, and that
in so doing it would be engaged in a business, control of which
is nowhere by the Federal Constitution given to Congress. It
must have been known that, in the nature of things, the control of that business would be exercised by the State, and if it
deemed that the interests of the nation and the discharge of
the duties required on behalf of the nation from this corpora-

REAGAN

E.
ERCANTILE TRUST CO,
Opinion of the Court.

tion demanded exemption in all things from state control, it
would unquestionably have expressed such intention in language whose meaning would be clear. Its silence in this
respect is satisfactory assurance that, in so far as this corporation should engage in business wholly within the State, it
intended that it should be subjected to the ordinary control
exercised by the State over such business. Without, therefore, relying at all upon any acceptance by the railroad corporation of the act of the legislature of the State, passed in 1873
in respect to it, we are of opinion that the Texas and Pacific
Railway Company is, as to business done wholly within the
State, subject to the control of the State in all matters of taxation, rates, and other police regulations.
Another matter of difference between the two cases is this:
The entire mileage of the International and Great Northern
Railway was within the limits of the State of Texas, while
the Texas and Pacific.Railway Company owns and operates
several hundred miles of road outside the limits of the State.
No reference is made in the briefs of counsel to this difference,
and probably there is nothing in the facts stated in the bill
and cross-bill in respect to the earnings, operating expenses,
and encumbrances of the property which would in any way
affect the conclusion as to the reasonableness of the rates
imposed; and we only notice the difference now to guard
against the inference that such a fact is always without significance in the consideration of questions as to the reasonableness
of rates imposed in one of the States within which the line of
the carrier runs.
Beyond these two matters of difference we see nothing that
calls for any comment. It is true the figures in respect to
earnings, operating expenses, encumbrances, reduction of
revenue, etc., are not the same in this as in that case, but still,
relatively to each other, they have the same significance, and
there are in the bills and cross-bills the same general averments. It would be useless, therefore, to encumber the record
with a mass of figures for the sake of making it clear that the
same conclusion must be reached here as in that case.
vOL. cLIv-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

In this case also, as in that, the decision is that
So much of the decree of the Circuit Court as restrainsthe
defendantsfromproceedingunder the railroadcommission
act to establish re.asonable rates and regulations is set aside,
but so much of it as restrains the enforcement of the rates
already established is aifrmed. The costs in this court
will be divided between the parties.

REAGAN v. MERCANTILE TRUST COMPANY.
REAGAN v. MERCANTILE TRUST COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Nos. 1168,1169. Submitted April 13, 1894.-Decided May 26,1894.

Reagan v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., ante, 362, followed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. C. A. Culberson,Attorney General of the State of Texas,
Mr. H. C. Coke, and ?Mr. F. iS.Simkins for appellants in both
cases.
Ar. John F .Dillon, Mr. E. B. -ruttschnitt, and Air. John
J. AcCook for the Mercantile Trust Company, appellee, in
both cases.
Air. Alexander G. Cochranand Mr. Winslow S. Pierce for
the St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company, appellee in No.
1168, and for the Tyler Southeastern Railway Company,
appellee in No. 1169.
Mi. JUSTiCE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

These are cases in which, as in those just decided, the tariff
established by the Texas Railroad Commission was challenged,
and with like result. The St. Louis Southwestern Railway

REAGAN v. MERCANTILE TRUST CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Company, named in the first of these cases, is called by counsel for defendants in their brief "a reorganized bankrupt concern." Its road has a total mileage, including main line and
branches, of 572 miles. It would seem to be a railroad which
was unwisely built, and one whose operating expenses have
always exceeded its earnings. Counsel say that "it is familiarly known in Texas as a ' teazer,' and, if it ever passes beyond
this interesting but unprofitable stage, even its friends will be
surprised." We are not advised, and we can hardly be expected to take judicial notice of what is meant by the term
"teazer," but it is clearly disclosed by the record that this was
an unprofitable road.
The Tyler Southeastern Railway Company, named in the
second suit, has a short road of ninety miles, and also appears
as a "reorganized bankrupt concern," and one whose road
hag been operated with constant loss. In the record in each
case is found two annual reports returned to the railroad commission, one for the year ending June 30, 1891, and the
other for that ending June 30, 1892. Comparing the statements in these reports, appellants' counsel say that the business of the roads has largely increased since the establishment
of the rates made by the commission, and urge that no
complaint can be made of action which has resulted so favorably. But an examination shows that the report for the
year ending June 30, 1891, includes only the earnings and
operating expenses for the single month commencing Jn'e
1, 1891, when the new company took possession and commenced operations; and so the enormous increase spoken of
is simply the difference between the earnings and expenses
for twelve months and those for one month. The bills, with
their amendments, allege a decrease in the tonnage as well as
a decrease in the rates.
We think, therefore, the cases come within the reasoning
of the prior opinions, and that it will not do to hold that,
because the roads have been operating in the past at a loss to
the owners, it is just and reasonable to so reduce the rates as
to increase the amount of that loss. Hence,
The dcrees here will be like those ordered inthe prior caes.

