OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

In re LOCKWOOD, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No number. Submitted April 24, 1894.-Decided May 26,1894.

It is for the Supreme Court of the State of Virginia to construe the statute
of that State which provides that "any person duly authorized and practising as counsel or attorney at law in any State or Territory of the
United States, or in the District of Columbia, may practise as such in
the courts of this State," and to determine whether the word "person,"
as therein used, is confined to males, and whether women are admitted
to practise law in that Commonwealth.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. JoePA Chri stian for the petitioner.
Mm. CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is an application by Belva A. Lockwood for leave to
file a petition for a mandamus requiring the Supreme Court
of Appeals of Virginia to admit her to practise law in that
court. Mrs. Lockwood has been for many years a member
of the bar of this court and of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, and also, she avers, of the bars of several
States of the Union. Her complaint is that she recently applied to the Supreme .Court of Appeals of Virginia to be
admitted to the practice of law in that court, and the court
denied her application, notwithstanding it is provided by a
statute of that State that "1any person duly authorized and
.practising as counsel or attorney at law in any State or Territory of the United States, or in the District of Columbia, may
'practise as such in the courts of this State." Code Va. 1887,
ยง 3192 ; and she alleges that the only reason for the rejection
of her application was that she is a woman. It appears that
no record was made of the refusal complained of, but she

IN RE -LOCKWOOD, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

presents a certificate of the clerk of that court to the effect
that the application was made and rejected, though "no order
was made at the time." Nothing is stated in the papers before us as to the residence of the petitioner, whether in the
District of Columbia or in some other State than the State
of Virginia. Our-inter position seems to be invoked upon the
ground that petitioner has been' denied a privilege or immunity belonging to her as a citizen of the United States, and
enjoyed by the women of Virginia, in contravention of the
second section of Article IV of the Constitution and of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
In M7finer v. .aEpersett, 21 Wall. 162, this court held that
the word "citizen" is often used to convey the idea of membership in a nation, and in that sense, women, if born of citizen
parents within the jurisdiction of the United States, have
aways been considered citizens of the United States, as much
so before the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution as since; but that the right of suffrage was not
necessarily one of the privileges or immunities of citizenship
before the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, and that
amendment did not add to these privileges and immunities.
Hence,that a provision in a state constitution which confined
the right of voting to male citizens of the United States was
no violation of the Federal Constitution.
In Bradwell v. Th e State, 16 Wall. 130, it was held that
the right to practise law in the state courts was not a privilege or immunity of a citizen of the United States ; that the
right to control and regulate the granting of license to practise law in the courts of a State is one of those powers that
was not transferred for its protection to the Federal government, and its exercise is in no manner governed or controlled
by citizenship of the United States in the party seeking such
-

license.

Section 3192 of the Code of Virginia quoted in this application is one of twelve sections constituting chap. 154 of that

Code, entitled, "Of Attorneys-at-Law Generally." Section
3193 reads:"' Every such person shall produce, before each
court in which he intends to practise, satisfactory evidence

OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

of his being so licensed or authorized, and take an oath that
he will honestly demean himself in the practice of the law,
and to the best of his ability execute his office of attorney-at,
law; and also, when he is licensed in this State, take the oath
of fidelity to the Commonwealth."
It was for the Supreme Court of Appeals to construe the
statute of Virginia in question, and to determine whether
the word "person" as therein used is confined to males,
and whether women are admitted to practise law in that
Commonwealth.
Leave denied.

THE HAYTIAN REPUBLIC.
CERTIORARI TO THE oIRCEIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TEE

I-

CIRCUIT.
No. 1136. Argued April 27,1894.-Decided May 26,1894.

When a vessel, libelled for smuggling and for violations of the Chinese
Exclusion Act, is discharged on giving the bond required by law, it may
be again libelled in another district for similar offences, alleged to have
been committed prior to the offences charged in the first libel; but, if
both suits proceed to judgment, there can be but one forfeiture of the
vessel.

Ow June 7, 1893, in the District Court of the United States
for the District of Washington, the United States libelled the
steamship Haytian Republic for violations of the "Chinese
Exclusion Act," and for smuggling opium. It was averred
that the violations of the Exclusion Act occurred at the following dates: 1st, September 20, 1892"; 2d, October 8, 1892; 3d,
October 12, 1892; 4th, October 15 and 16, 1892; 5th, November 1, 1892; 6th, November 26, 1892; 7th, December 12, 1892;
8th, December 13, 1892; 9th, January 2, 1893 ; 10th, January
26, 1893; 11th, February 2, 1893; 12th, March 28, 1893; 13th,
May 11, 1893.
The offences of opium smuggling, according to the libel,
were committed as follows:

