NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD

.

A

BLY. "349

Syllabus.

in Davis v. Weibbold, 139 U. S. 507, includes only known
mines.
I deem it unnecessary to pursue this discussion further..
Many other considerations of equal signifcanc might ba
adduced. It is enough to say in conclusion that the uniform
and settled rule of decision heretofore has been that identification of the particular tracts which pass under a grant was
complete at the time of the definite location of the line of the
road. Congress, with a knowledge of that frequent ruling,'
has never by any act directed a change. It is to be presumed
that the legislation of the various States has been cast upon
that as the law of the land. To now overthrow that and
establish a new rule not merely unsettles the question of title
to the lands within this vast area, but it may produce complications which we do not now perceive in the rights of individuals and counties, and even of the States along the line
of this road. If ever there was a case in which the rule stare
deci
should prevail, this is one.
I, therefore, dissent from the opinion and judgment in this
case, and am authorized to say that M-u. JUSTICE GAY and
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAs concur in this dissent.

NORTHERN .PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.

HAXIBLY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NORTH DAKOTA.
No. 187.

Submitted December 21, 1893.-Decided May 26,1894.

A common day laborer in the employ of a railroad company, who, while
working for the company under the order and direction of a section
"boss" or foreman, on a culvert on the line of the company's road, receives an injury by and through the negligence of the conductor and of
the engineer in moving and operating a passenger train upon the company's road, is a fellow-servant with such engineer and such conductor,
in such a sense as exempts the railroad company from liability for the
injury so inflicted,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

THis was an action by Hambly to recover damages for per.
sonal injuries susfained- by him while acting as helper to a
crew of masons engaged in building a stone culvert f~r the
defendant company on its right of way about two miles west
of Jamestown in North Dakota. 'Upon the trial of the case
before a jury, the following facts were proven and admitted
to be true by both parties, viz.: "That the plaintiff was a
common laborer in the employ of the defendant company,
and at the time he received -the injury, which is the ground
of this action, he was in the service of the defendant, working under the direction and supervision of a section I boss' or
foreman of the defendant company, assisting in building a
c-ilvert on defendant's line of railroad, and that while so engaged, the injury complained of and for which he sues, was
inflicted' upon him by being struck by a locomotive of a
moving passenger train on the defendant's road, (said train
belonging to the -defendant, and being operated by a conductor and engineer in its employ,) and that the injury he
received by coming in contact with said passenger train, and
which is the injury sued for in this cause, was due solely to
the misconduct and negligence of the conductor and locomotive engineer on said passenger train, in operating and conducting the movements of said train."
Upon the foregoing facts, defendant prayed for an instruction to the jury that the engineer and conductor of the passenger train were fellow-servaiits with-the plaintiff, and hence
that the defendant company was not liable for the injury
received by the plaintiff through their negligence. Upon the
question of giving such instruction the opinions of the judges
were opposed, and the Circuit Judge being of opinion that
the plaintiff and said conductor and engineer were not fellowservants in the sense that would exempt the defendant from
liability, so ipstructed the jury, which returned a verdict for
the plaintiff in the sum of $2500, upon which judgment was
entered. Defendant thereupon moved for a new trial, upon
the granting of which the judges were opposed in opinion.
The motion was denied, and the judges certified the following
questions for the opinion of this court:

NORTHERIN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. HAMBLY.

351

Argument for Defendant in Error.

"1. Whether, on the admitted facts of this case hereinbefore set out, the jury should have been instructed that the
plaintiff and said conductor and engineer were fellow-servants,
and that they should return a verdict for the defendant.
"2. Whether, on the facts hereinbefore set out, the court
should have set aside the verdict and judgment in the case
and granted defendant a new trial.
"3. Whether the plaintiff, who was a common day laborer
in the employ of the defendant, (which is a railroad company
owning and operating a line of railroad,) and who was at the
time he received the injury complained of working for the
defendant under the order and direction of a section 'boss'
or foreman on a culvert on the line of defendant's road, was
a fellow-servant with the *engineer and conductor operating
and conducting a passenger train on the defendant's road, in
such a sense as exempted the defendant from liability for
an injury inflicted upon plaintiff by and through the negligence of said conductor and engineer in moving-and operating said passenger train."
Mfr. James McNaught, Mr. A. H. Garland,and M. H. J.
.uay for plaintiff in error.
S. L. Gla pell for defendant in error.
'Mr.
In Chicago, Milwaukee dc. Railway v. Ross, 112 U. S.
377, it is assumed that the conductor of a train of cars has
entire control and management of the train to which he is
assigned, and is the superior of the engineer. On the other
hand, Randall v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,109 V. S. 478,
holds the engineer to be a fellow-servant of a brakeman of
another train, working a switch. It is therefore important
to know whether the negligence in this case is to be charged
to the engineer or to the conductor, and in what it consisted.
In the certificate the negligence is attributed to them jointly;
but the facts constituting negligence axe not stated; and this
court is called upon to give an opinion upon a purely hypothetical question which may be wide of the real question at

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

issue. How can the conductor and engineer be jointly guilty
of the proximate act which resulted in the injury to defendant
in error? If the fault was that of the conductor, then is the
railroad company liable as for the acts of its representative
or vice-principal; but if the fault was that of the engineer,
then he is held to be a fellow-servant.
The maxim, respondeat superior, does not apply so as to
make a master responsible for injuries caused to one servant
by the negligence of another in the same common employment, but this exception to a general rule has been subjected
to various limitations.
As a limitation upon the fellow-servant rule, the exception
has been made and is now quite well established, that when
servants are engaged in distinct and separate departments of
service, where their employment does not require cobperation,
and does not result in mutual contact or bring them together
in such relation that they may exercise upon each other an
influence promotive of caution or safety, the rule does not
apply.
The reasons for the fellow-servant rule do not fit the facts
of this case. There are two principal reasons urged for exempting the master from liability to one servant for an injury
caused by the negligence of another servant in the same employment: (1) That the servant contracted his services with
reference to and assumed the risk resulting from the negligence of his fellow-servant. (2) The expediency of throwing
the risk on those who can best guard against it.
The first reason is inapplicable here, because it applies only
to the. ordinary risks of the service. Baird v. Pettit, TO
Penn. St. 477.
The second reason was first declared by Shaw, C. J., in.
Farwell v. Boston & Worcester Railroad, 4 Met. (Mass.) 49.
But it was not a good reason when enunciated; and when
applied to railroad corporations of the present day it is entirely unfounded and misleading.
To say, as in the Farwell case, .that the engineer who was
injured was an observer of the conduct of the switchman who
negligently left a switch open, and could best guard against

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. HAMBLY.

353

Argument for Defendant in Error.

such negligence, is unwarranted by common knowledge of
railroad business.
Assuming in the present case that the negligence was that
of the conductor or persons having the care and control of a
moving passenger train, can it be said that such a reason will
fit the facts of this case? Can Rambly, a common laborer
working on a culvert on the line of a railroad be said to be an
observer of the conduct of the person or persons in charge of
the passenger train? Does he have any opportunity to guard
against their negligence? Does he come in contact with
them so as to learn their habits, methods, or recklessness?
He has nothing to do with train service, may never before
have seen the conductor or engineer. It is manifest that one
in his position could have- no influence over the persons in
charge of the passenger train since their business did not
bring them together.
That persons in charge of trains are not fellow-servants in
the same common employment with persons working along
the track, see Garrahyv. Xansas City, St. Joseph &c. Railroad, 25 Fed. Rep. 258; Pike v. Chicago & Alton Railroad,
41 Fed. Rep. 95; Chicago & .Yorthwesternm Railroad v. Moranda, 93 Illinois, 302; Sullivan v. -lissouri Pacifjc Railway, 97 Missouri, 113; Richmond & -Danville Railroad v.
Normont, 4 S. E. Rep. 211; Eing v. Ohio &o. Railr9ad,14
Fed. Rep. 277.
The rule laid down in the FarwZ case was grounded on
public policy, the court saying that, "in considering the rights
and obligations arising out of particular relations, it is competent for courts of justice to regard considerations of policy and
general convenience, and to draw from them such rules as will,
in their practical application, best promote the safety and security of all parties concerned."
Not being founded in exact justice, the reasons for the rule
have failed in a variety of cases and a number of limitations
have arisen or sprung from the hardships of a general application of a rule founded solely on alleged public policy. -Northern
Pacdlc Railroad v. Herbert,116 U. S. 64:2; Ross v. Chicago,
Xivaukee &c. Railroad,112 U. S. 377; Ryan v. Chicago &
VOL. cLv-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Northwestern Railway, 60 Illinois, 171; Chicago & Alton
Railroad v. Kelley, 21 N. E. Rep. 203; St. Louis &b San
Francisco Railway v. leaver, 11 Pac. Rep. 408; ladden v.
Chesapeake & Ohio Railway, 28 W. Va. 610; Northern
Pacific Railroad v. O'Brien, 21 Pac. Rep. 32; Cooper v.
.Mullins, 30 Georgia, 146; O'Donnell v. Allegheny Valley
Railroad,59 Penn. St. 239; Mloon v. Richmond & Allegheny
Railroad, 78 Virginia, 745; Nashville &c. Railroad v. Carroll, 6 lleisk. 347; Louisville & Nashville Railroad v. Sheets,
13 S. W. Rep. 248 (Ky.); Donaldson v. fMiss. & Mo. Railroad,
18 Iowa, 280.
If the reasons which influenced the Farwell decision do not
exist; if one of these employ~s did not assume the risk of the
conductor's negligence more than or differently from the other,
and it would be absurd to say that such is the case, if the 6mployA on another train has no better opportunity of observing
the conduct of the conductor than one on the same train with
such conductor, then there is no theory or principle to distinguish between the two cases, and the master would be liable in
both.
With greater force can it be asked, upon what theory can
it be held that the conductor of the passenger train in the
case at bar was a fellow-servant with the laborer at work on
a culvert on the railroad? Under the authority of the Ross
case, if the brakeman on the train bad been injured in the
same negligent circumstance, the company would be held
liable. Yet the brakeman was acquainted with the conductor, made the run with him frequently, knew his habits
and had a better opportunity to observe his actions than the
laborer working on the culvert.
Hambly was not engaged in and had no such knowledge of
train service as was possessed by the brakeman. His duties
(lid not bring him to work at the same place and at the same
time as the conductor. Their separate service did not have a
common object. While they were both servants of the same
master, the one was engaged in the train department and the
other in the bridge department. Unless the entire operations
of an extensive and widespread railroad corporation can be

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. HAMBLY.

355

Opinion of the Court.

grasped in the expression, general business or common employment, then these men were not fellow-servants. While it may
be said that the conductor represented the master as a viceprincipal, and was for that reason not a fellow-servant with
the defendant in error, yet it seems the better reason that he
was not a fellow-servant because not in the same commonemployment
A. JusTicE B~owN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The third question certified to this court, and the only one
it is necessary for us to consider, involves the inquiry whether
the plaintiff Hambly and the conductor and engineer of the
passenger train were, either Iby the common law or the statute
of Dakota, fellow-servants in such sense as- to exempt the
defendant railway from liability.
There is probably no subject connected with the law of
negligence which has given rise to more variety of opinion
than that of fellow-service. The authorities are hopelessly
divided upon the general subject as well as upon the question
here involved. It is useless to attempt an analysis of the
cases which have arisen in the courts of the several States,
since they are wholly irreconcilable in principle, and too numerous even to justify citation. It may be said in general
that, as between laborers employed upon a railroad track and
the conductor or other employ~s of a moving train, the courts
of Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New York, Indiana, Iowa,
Michigan, North Carolina, Minnesota, Maine, Texas, California, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Arkansas, and Wisconsin hold
the relation of fellow-servants to exist. Farwell v. Boston &
Toreester Railroad,4 Met, (Mass.) 49 ; Clifford v. Old Colony
Railroad, 141 Mass. 564; Brodeur v. TFalley -Falls Co., 17
At. Rep. 54; Haney v. -Yew York Central Railroad, 88
N. Y. 481; Gormley v. Ohio & .3fississippi Railway, 72 Indiana, 31; Collins v. St. Paul & Sioux City Railroad, 30
Minnesota, 31; Pennsylvania Railroad v. Wachter, 60 Maryland, 395; Houston &c. Railway v. Rider, 62 Texas, 267; St.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Louis & Iron .Mountain,Railway v. ,Shackeford,42 Arkansas,
417; Blake v. Maine Central Railroad,70 Maine, 60; Ryan
v. Cumberland lFalley Railroad, 23 Penn. St. 384; Sullivan
v. .Miss. & Jo. Railroad,11 Iowa, 421; Fowler v. Chicago &
Northwestern Railway, 61 Wisconsin, 159; Jirk v. Atlantic
&c. Railway, 94 N. C. 625; Quincy Xining Co. v. Kitts, 42
Michigan, 34; Keystone Bridge Co. v. NAewb'erry, 96 Penn. St.
246: while in Illinois, Missouri, Virginia, Ohio, and Kentucky
the rule is apparently the other way. Chicago & NTorthwestern Railroad v. .Moranda, 93 Illinois, 302; Sullivan v.
.Missouri Pacific Railway, 97 Missouri, 113; Richmond &
-Danville Railroad v. .Yormont, 4 S. E. Rep. 211; 1Dick v.
Railroad'Co.,- 38 Ohio St. 389; -Louisville &c. Railroad v.
Caven, 9 Bush, 559; .Madden v. Chesapeake & Ohio Railway,
28 W. Va. 610. The oases in, Tennessee seem to be divided.
East Tennessee &c. Railroadv. Rush, 15 Lea, 145; Louisville
& NYashville Railroad v. Robertson, 9 Heisk. 276; ilaley v.
MZkobile & Ohio Railroad,7 Baxter, 239; NYashville & Decatur
Railroadv. Jones, 9 Heisk. 27; East Tennessee &c. Railroad
v. Gurley, 12 Lea, 46.
In this court the cases involving the question of fellowservice have not been numerous nor, perhaps, altogether harmonious. The question first arose in the case of Randall v.
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, 109 U. S. 478, in
which a brakeman, working a switch for his train on one
track in a railroad yard, was held to be a fellow-servant of an
engineer of another train upon an adjacent track, upon the
theory that the two were employed and paid by the same
master, and that their duties were such. as to bring them to
work-at the same place at the same time, and their separate
services had as a common object the moving of trains. It is
difficult to see why, if the case under consideration is to be
determined as one of' general and not of local law, it does
not fall directly within the ruling of the Randall case. The
services of a switchman in keeping a track clear for the passage of trains do not differ materially, so far as actions
founded upon the negligence of train men are concerned, from
those of a laborer engaged in keeping the track in repair;

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. HAMBLY.

35

Opinion of the Court.

neither of them is under the personal control of the engineer
or conductor of the moving train, but both are alike engaged
in ana employment necessarily bringing them in contact with
passing engines, and in the "immediate common object" of
securing the .safe passage of trains over the road. As a
laborer upon a railroad track, either in switching trains or
repairing the track, is constantly exposed to the danger of
passing trains, and bound to look out for them, any negligence
in the management of such -trains is a risk which may or
should be contemplated by him in entering upon the service
of the company. This is probably the most satisfactory test
of liability. If the departments of the two servants are so
far separated from each other that the possibility of coming
in contact, and hence of incurring danger from the negligent
performance of the duties of such other department, could not
be said to be within the contemplation of the person injured, the
doctrine of fellow-service should not apply. In this view it
is not difficult to reconcile the numerous cases which hold that
persons whose duty it is to keep railroad cars in good order
and repair are not engaged in a common employment with
those who run or operate them. The case of Northern Pacife Railroad v. Hlerbert, 116 U. S. 642, is an illustration of
this principle. The plaintiff in this case was a brakeman in
defendant's yard at Bismark, where its .cars were switched
upon different tracks and its trains were made up for the
road. He received an injury from a defective brake, which
had been allowed to get out of repair through the negligence
of an officer or agent of the company who was charged with
the duty of keeping the cars in order. It was held, upon
great unanimity of authority both in this country and in England, that the person receiving and the person causing the
injury did not occupy the relative position of fellow-servants.
See also Ilou h v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213; Union,Pacific
Railway v. .Daniels,152 U. S. 684. Even in iMassachusetts,
whose courts have leaned as far as any in this country in supporting the doctrine of fellow-service, it has been held that
agents who are charged with the duty of supplying safe
machinery are not to be regarded as fellow-servants with those

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

who are engaged in operating it. Fordv. FitchburgRailroad,
110 -Mass. 240.
Directly in line with the case of Randallv. B. & 0. Railroad
Co. is that of the Quebec Steamshipv Co. v. .Merchant,133 U. S.
375, in which the stewardess of a steamship belonging to a
corporation brought suit to recover damages for personal injuries sustained by her by reason of a defective railing at a
gangway, which gave way as she leaned against it, and precipitated her into the water. The railing had been recently
removed and the gangway opened to take off some freight,
and had not been properly replaced by the porter and carpenter of the ship whose duty it was to replace them. It was
held that, as the porter and carpenter were fellow-servants
with the stewardess, the corporation was not liable. Said Mr.
Justice Blatchford: "As the porter was confessedly in the
same department with the stewardess, his negligence was that
of a fellow-servant. The contention of the plaintiff is that, as
the carpenter was in the deck department and the stewardess
in the steward's department, those were different departments
in such a sense that the carpenter was not a fellow-servant
with the stewardess. But we think that, on the evidence, both
the porter and the carpenter were fellow-servants with the
plaintiff. The carpenter had no authority over the plaintiff,
nor had the porter.

.

.

.

There was nothing in the em-

ployment or service of the carpenter or the porter which made
either of them any more the representative of the defendant
than the employment and service of the stewardess made her
such representative." The division of the crew into departments was treated as evidently for the convenience of administration upon the vessel, but having no effect upon the
question of fellow-service. See also Baltimore & Ohio Railroad v. .Andrews, 50 Fed. Rep. 728.
The case of the Chicago, 2fiwauee &e. Railway v. Ross,
112 U. S. 377, is claimed to have laid down a different doctrine, and to be wholly inconsistent with the defence set up
by the railroad in this case. This action was brought by
th6 engineer of a freight-train to recover damages occasioned.
by the joint negligence of the conductor of his own train and

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. HAMBLY.

359

Opinion of the Court.

that of a gravel train with which it came in collision. The
case was decided not to be one of fellow-service upon the
ground that the conductor was "in fact, and should be treated
as, the personal representative of the corporation, for whose
negligence it is responsible to subordinate servants." The
court drew a distinction "between servants of a corporation,
exercising no supervision over others engaged with them in
the same employment, and agents of a corporation, clothed
with the control and management of a distinct department,
in which their duty is entirely that of direction and superintendence." In that particular case the court found that the
conductor had entire control and management of the train to
which he was assigned, directed at what time it should start,
at what speed it should run, at what stations it should stop,
and for what length of time, and everything essential to its
successful movements, and that all persons employed upon it
were subject to his orders. Under such circumstances he was
held not to be a fellow-servant with the fireman, brakeman,
and engineer, citing certain cases from Kentucky and Ohio,
which maintained the same view.
It may be observed that quite a different question was raised
in that case from the one involved here, in the fact that the
liability of the company was placed upon a ground which has
no application to the case under consideration, viz., that the
person sustaining the injury was under the direct authority
and control of the person by whose negligence it was caused.
That it was not, however, intended in that case to lay down
as a universal rule that the company is liable where the person injured is subordinate to the person causing the injury, is
evident from the latest deliverance of this court in Baltimore
& Ohio Railroadv. Baugh,149 U. S. 368, in which an engineer and fireman were held to be, when engaged in their
respective duties as such, fellow-servants of the railroad company, and the firemen precluded by principles of general law
from recovering damages from the company for injuries
caused by the negligence of the engineer.
lNeither of these cases, however, is applicable here, since
they involved the question of "subordination" of fellow-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

servants and not of "different departments." Of both
classes of cases, however, the same observation may be made,
viz., that to hold the principal liable whenever there are gradations of rank between the person receiving and the person
causing the injury, or whenever they are employed in different departments of the same general service, would result in
frittering away the whole doctrine of fellow-service. Cases
arising between persons engaged together in the same identical service, as, for instance, between brakemen of the same
train or two seamen of equal rank in the same ship, are
conparatively rare. In a large majority of cases there is
some distinction either in respect to grade of service, or in
the nature of their employments. Courts, however, have
been reluctant to recognize these distinctions unless the superiority of the person causing the injury was such as to put
him rather in the category of principal than of agent, as, for
example, the superintendent of a factory or railway, and the
employments were so far different that, although paid by the
same master, the two servants were brought no farther in
contact with each other than as if they had been employed
by different principals.
We think this case is indistinguishable in principle from
Randall's case, which was decided in 1883, and has been
accepted as a sound exposition of the law for over ten years;
and that, unless we are prepared to overrule 'that case, the
third question certified must be answered in the affirmative.
The authorities in favor of the proposition there laid down
are simply overwhelming.
We have thus far treated this case, as determinable by the
general and not by the local law, as was held to be proper
both in the Ross case and in the case of Baugh. In so holding, however, the court had in view only the law of the respective States as expounded by their highest courts. Wherever
the subject is regulated by statute, of course the statute is
applied by the Federal courts pursuant to Revised Statutes,
section 241, as a "law" of the State.
By section 3753, Compiled Laws of Dakota Territory, in
one of the courts of which this case was originally com

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. 1A

LY.

61

Opinion of the Court.

menced, 'an employer is not bound to indemnify his employ6
for losses suffered by the latter in consequence of the ordinary,
risks of the business in which he is employed, nor in consequence of the negligence of another person employed by the
same employer in the same general business, unless he has
neglected to use ordinary care in the selection of the culpable
-employ6." In the case of Elliot v. Chicago, _filwaukee &c.
Railroad, 41 N. W. Rep. 758, a case which arose after
the enactment of the above statute, the Supreme Court of the
Territory held that a section foreman and a train conductor
were co-employ s within the purview of this statute, and were
"engaged in the same general business." While this construction, given by the Supreme. Court of a Territory, is not obligatory upon this court, it is certainly entitled to respectful
consideration, and in a doubtful case might well be accepted
as turning the scale in favor of the doctrine there announced.
The opinion is a very elaborate one, reviews a large number
of cases, and follows those of New York, Pennsylvania, and
Massachusetts, as founded upon sounder principles. We may
safely assume that the construction -thus given to this statute
will not be overruled by the courts of -the two States which
have succeeded the Supreme Court of the Territory without
most cogent reasons for their action.
The third question certified must be answered in the
affirmative.
The CHMF JUSTICE, MR. Jus ioE FiLU, and MR. Jusaon
EfrLAx dissented.

