CLEVELAND &c. RAILWAY 00. v. BACKUS.

439

Syllabus.
Case No. 900, brought by the Indianapolis and Vincennes Railroad Company to impeach the assessment made by the same board,
in the same year, of its property, is so nearly like this. in its
material features that no separate statement of the special facts is
necessary, and in that case, too, the judgment of the Supreme

Court of the State of Indiana will be
Affirmed.
MIR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE BROWN dissented from
the opinion and judgment upon the ground stated in their dissenting opinion in Pittsburgh, Cincinnati,Chicago & St. Louis Railway
Company v. Backus, No. 899, ante, 421, 437.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON did not hear the argument in this case
or take any part in its decision.
Mr. John M. Butler for plaintiff in error.
31r. Albert Greene Smith, Attorney General of the State of
Indiana, and Mr. William A. Ketcham for defendant in error.

CLEVELAND, CINCINNATI, CHICAGO AND
LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY v. BACKUS.

ST.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 908. Argued March 27, 28, 1894. -Decided

May 26, 1894.

If an assessing board, seeking to assess for purposes of taxation a part of
a railroad within a State, the other part of which is in an adjoining State,
ascertains the value of the whole line as a single property and then determines the value of that within the State, upon the mileage basis, that
is not a valuation of property outside of the State; and the assessing
board, in order to keep within the limits of state jurisdiction, need not
treat the part of the road within the State as an independent line, disconnected from the part without, and place upon that property only the
value which can be given to it if operated separately from the balance of
the road.
Where an assessing board is charged with the duty of valuing a certain
number of miles of railroad within a State forming part of a line of road

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.
running into another State, and assesses those miles of road at their
actual cash value determined on a mileage basis, this does not place a
burden upon interstate commerce, beyond the power of the State, simply
because the value of that railroad as a whole is created partly- and
perhaps largely -by the interstate commerce which it is doing.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John T. Dye for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. Alonzo Greene Smith, Attorney General of the State
of Indiana, and .Mr. William A. IKetoham for defendant in
error. Mr. Albert J. Beveridge and .M'.John IF. Kern were
with them on their brief.
MR_. JUSTICE

BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is similar to the two just decided, in that it was
a suit brought by.this plaintiff in the same court, challenging an assessment of its railroad property for the same year,
by the same board, with the same result both in the trial and
Supreme Court of the State. Hence it is useless to reconsider
the questions decided in those cases as to the constitutionality
of the act itself, or those which depend solely upon like testimony. There was, however, in the trial of this case a more
elaborate effort to show that the state board included in its
assessment the value of property outside the State, and also
that the valuation placed nominally upon the property within
the State was largely based upon interstate business done by
the plaintiff, and thus, as is claimed, to that extent, placed a
direct burden upon interstate commerce, which, it is conceded,
is beyond the power of the State to cast. It becomes necessary, therefore, to notice a little in detail the testimony which
was received, as well as that which was excluded on the
hearing.
It may be premised that there was much testimony of a
character similar to that given in the other cases. Beyond
that, there was a large amount of testimony received as well
as some offered and rejected for the purpose of showing what
was presented to the board for consideration, the method by

CLEVELAND &c. RAILWAY CO. v. BACKUS.

441

Opinion of the Court.

which it reached its conclusions, and the elements which entered into its estimate of value. The principal witness relied on
in respect to these matters was the secretary of State, a member of the board. By him it was proved that no witness was
sworn and examined, and no inquiry made in that way, as to
the value of 'this property. It appeared that the return made
by the company was before the board for consideration. The
court ruled out an offer to prove that outside of such return
no books, papers, or documents, except Poor's Manual and
the Investors' Guide, were produced before the board, or considered by it in making the assessment; that Poofs Manual
was used by it for data upon which to base the assessment;
and specifically that this was the only evidence which it had
as to the number of miles owned and leased by the plaintiff,
the State in which they were located, and the various encumbrances upon the different lines of road included in the system
belonging to the plaintiff. It was shown that the plaintiff
appeared before the board by its officers, with such statements as they desired to make, and also that other individuals.
(especially an attorney representing Marion County, one of
the counties through which the road of the plaintiff runs),
appeared and made arguments. A series of questions was put
to the witness, of-which this is a sample:
"Q. In the assessment of the Cincinnati, La Fayette and
Chicago Railway, extending from Templeton, Indiana, to the
Illinois state line," (one of the lines Muplaintiffs systemand included in the assessment,) "in arriving at the basig for
the estimate of the value which you placed upon the main'
line of that road, did you consider the market vale of any
stocks; and, if so, of what stocks did you consider the market
value? " ; but the court ruled the question out on the groundthat it was an attempt to inquire into the mental processes of
members of the board. At the time codusel for the defendant stated:
"We desire to let the record show at this point, may the
court please, that the defendant will interpose no objection to
any question asked by the plaintiff as to whether or not the
state board of tax ,commissioners assessed and valued any

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

bonds, stocks, or anything else outside of the State, and that
we will not object to any question asked-any member of the
state board of tax commissioners as to whether or not that
board assessed anything else than railroad track and rolling
stock inside of the State of Indiana."
The plaintiff did not, however, apparently care to take
advantage of this offer. Other questions were put to the witness, like the following:
"Q. In assessing the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad,
you placed the main track at $27,900 per mile, while you
assessed the main track of the Terre Haute and Indianapolis
Railroad at $21,800 per mile, being $6000 per mile less than
the track of the St. Louis division of the three C.'s & St. L.
or the I. & St. L. railroad. Now, in making this assessment,
$21,800 per mile, or $27,900 per mile upon the main track of
the St. Louis division of the three C.'s & St. L., did you or not
consider the gross.earnings of the three C.'s & St. L. railway,
including earnings derived from carrying freight and passengers from points within to points without the State of Indiana,
or through the State of Indiana, while engaged as a common
carrier in interstate commerce?"; but the court sustained objections to all of them.
The witness was also asked, but not permitted to answer:
"Q. Did you fix the value upon the St. Louis division of
the three C.'s & St. L. railway

-

I mean did the board - as

returned to the auditor of State separately or did you value
that road as a part of the three C.'s & St. L. system in Ohio
and in Indiana, and did you, having reached a unit of value
by considering the whole system, distribute that unit of value
according to mileage over the operated and leased lines and
parts of roads in Indiana of the-plaintiff ?"
Another seriies of questions was propounded, of which the
following is one:
"Q. Did- you or not, in assessing and fixing the value of
the St. Louis division and of the Chicago division and of the
leased and operated lines of the three C.'s & St. L. Railway
in the State of Indiana, place or add anything to the value
of said lines by reason of the fact that it had a franchise "

CLEVELAND &c. IAIIWAY CO. v. BAOKTUS.

443

Opinion of the Court.

Objections were made by the defendant to these quiestions,
which were sustained, but afterwards, when the witness was
again on the stand, the objections were withdrawn, whereupon
the plaintiff withdrew all the questions except the one which
we have last quoted, and to that the witness answered, "We
did not; no, sir."
These references are probably sufficient to fully present the
questions for consideration. It will not be claimed that it is
within the province of this court to review any question as to
the admission or rejection of testimony which does not bear
directly upon some matter of a Federal nature. It will be
noticed that no testimony wa4ruled out showing, or tending
to show, what was in fact valued and assessed by the state
board. There was also direct testimony that no franchise
belonging to the plaintiff was estimated in making the assessment. The inquiry, therefore, in view of the testimony received and that offered and rejected is narrowed to these two
matters: First. If an assessing board, seeking to assess for
purposes of taxation a part of a road within a State, the other
part of which is in an adjoining State, ascertains the value of
the whole line as a single property and then determines the
value of that within the State, upon the mileage basis, is that
a valuation of property outside of the State, and must -the
assessing board, in order? to keep within the limits of -state
jurisdiction, treat the. part of the road within the State as an
independent line, disconnected from the part without, and
place upon that property only the value which can be given
to it if operated separately from the balance of the road?
Second. Where an assessing board is charged with the duty
of valuing a certain number of miles of railroad within a State
forming part -of a line of road running into another State, and
assesses those miles of road at their actual cash value determined on a mileage basis, is this placing a burden upon interstate commerce, beyond the power of the State, simply because
the valuo of that railroad as a whole is created partly - and
perhaps largely- by the interstate commerce which it is doing'?.
With regard to the first question, it is assumed that no
special circumstances exist to distinguish between the condi-

OCTOBER ' TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

tions in the two States, such as terminal facilities of enormous
value in one and not in another. With this assumption the
first question must be answered in the negative. The true
value of a line of railroad is something more than an aggregation of the values of separate parts of it, operated separately. It is the aggregate of those values plus that arising
from a connected operation of the whole, and each part of
the road contributes not merely the value arising from its
independent operation, but its mileage proportion of that
flowing from a continuous and connected operation of the
whole. This is no denial of the mathematical proposition
that the whole is equal to the sum of all its parts, because
there is a value created by and resulting from the combined
operation of all its parts as one continuous line. This is something which does not exist, and cannot exist, until the combination is formed. A notable illustration of this was in the
New York Central Railroad consolidation. Many years ago
the distance between Albany and Buffalo was occupied by
three or four companies, each operating its own line of road,
and together connecting the two cities. The several companies were united and formed the New York Central Railroad
Company, which became the owner of the entire line between
Albany and Buffalo, and operated it as a single road. Immediately upon the consolidation of these companies, and the
operation of the property as a single, connected line of railroad between Albany and Buffalo, the value of the property
was recognized in the market as largely in excess of the
aggregate of the values of the separate properties. It is
unnecessary to enter into any inquiry as to the causes of this.
It is enough to notice the fact. Now, when a road runs into
two States each State is entitled to consider as within its territorial jurisdiction and, subject to the burdens of its taxes
what may perhaps not inaccurately be described as the proportionate share of the value flowing from the operation of
the entire mileage as a single continuous road. It is not
bound to enter upon a disintegration of values and attempt
to extract from the total value of the entire property that
-which would exist if the miles of road within the State were

CLEVELAND &c. RAILWAY CO. v. BACKUS.

445

Opinion of the Court.

operated separately. Take the case of a railroad running
from Columbus, Ohio, to Indianapolis, Indiana. Whatever
of value there may be resulting from the continuous operation
of that road is partly attributable to the portion of the road
in Indiana and partly to that in Ohio, and each State has an
equal right to reach after a just proportion of that value, and
subject it to its taxing processes. The question is, how can
equity be secured between the States, and to that a division
of the value of the entire property upon the mileage basis is
the legitimate answer. Taking a mileage share of that in
Indiana is not taxing property outside of the State.
The second question must also be auswered in the negative.
It has been again and again said by this court that while no
State could impose any tax or burden upon the privilege of
doing the business of interstate commerce, yet it had the unquestioned right to place a property tax on the instrumentalities engaged in such commerce.
See among many other
cases, Marye v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 127 U. S. 117;
Pullmnw'8 Palae Car Co. v. Penn8ylvania,141 U. S.18.
The rule of property taxation is that the value of the property is the basis of taxation. It does not mean a tax upon the
earnings which the property makes, nor for the privilege of
using the property, but rests solely upon the value. But the
value of property results from the use to which it is put, and
varies with the profitableness of that use, present and prospective, actual and anticipated. There is no pecuniary value
outside of that which results from such use. The amount and
profitable character of such use determines the value, and if
property is taxed at its actual cash value it is taxed upon
something which is created by the uses to which it is put.
In the nature of things it is practically impossible -at least
in respect to railroad property - to divide its yalue, and determine how much is caused by one use to which it is put and
how much by another. Take the case before us; it is impossible to disintegrate the value of that portion of the road
within Indiana and determine how much of that value springs
from its use in fdoing interstate business, and how much from
its us '_in doing business wholly within the State. An at-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

tempt to do so would be entering upon a mere field of uncertainty and speculation. And because of this fact it is
something which an assessing board is not required to attempt.
Take for illustration, property whose sole use is for purposes
of interstate conuherce, such as a bridge over the Ohio between the States of Kentucky and Ohio. From that springs
its entire value. Can it be that it is on that account entirely
relieved from the burden of state taxation? Will it be said
that the taxation must be based simply on the cost, when
never was it held that the cost of a thing is the test of its
value? Suppose there be two bridges over the Ohio, the cost
of the construction of each being the same, one between Cincinnati and Newport, and another twenty miles below and
where there is nothing but a small village on either shore.
The value of the one will, manifestly, be greater than that of
the other, and that excess of value will spring solely from the
larger use of -the one than of the other. Must an assessing
board in either State, assessing that- portion of the bridge
within the State for purposes of taxation, eliminate all of the
value which flows from the use, and place the assessment at
only the sum remaining? It is a practical impossibility.
Either the property must be declared wholly exempt from
state taxation or taxed at its value, irrespective of the causes
and uses which have brought about such value. And the
uniform ruling of this court, a ruling demanded by the harmonious relations between the States and the national government, has affirmed that the full discharge of no duty entrusted
to the latter restrains the former from the exercise of the
power of equal taxation upon all private property within its
territorial limits. All that has been decided is that, beyond
the taxation of property, according to the rule of ordinary
property taxation, no State shall attempt to impose the added
burden of a license or other tax for the privilege of using,
constructing, or operating any bridge, or other instrumentality
of interstate commerce, or for the carrying on of such commerce. It is enough for the State that it finds within its
borders property which is of a certain value. What has
caused that value is immaterial. It is protected by stat6 laws,

INTERSTATE COMIERCE C0tI. v. BRIMSON.

447

Syllabus.

and the rule of all property taxation is the rule of value, and
by that rule property engaged in interstate commerce is controlled the same as property engaged in commerce within the
State. Neither is this an attempt to do by indirection what
cannot be done directly -that is, to cast a burden on interstate commerce. It comes rather within that large class of
state action, like certain police restraints, which, while indirectly affecting, cannot be considered as a regulation of interstate commerce, or a direct burden upon its free exercise. We
answer this question, therefore, in the.negative.
These are the only matters which seem to distinguish this
case from the two preceding, and, therefore, the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Indiana is
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE BRoWN dissented from
the opinion and judgment in this case upon the grounds stated

in their dissenting opinion in Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago
& St. Louis Railway Company v. Backus, No. 899, ante, 421,
437.
AIR.

JUSTICE; JACKSON

did not hear the arguments in this

case, or take any part in its decision.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. BRIMSON.
APPEAL FRO31 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 883. Argued April 16, 1894. -Decided

May 26, 1894.

The twelfth section of the Interstate Commerce Act authorizing the Circuit Courts of the United States to use their process in aid of inquiries
before the Commission established by that act, is not in conflict with
the Constitution of the United States, as imposing on judicial tribunals
duties not judicial in their nature.
A petition filed under that section in the Circuit Court of the United States
against a witness, duly summoned to testify before the Commission, to
compel him to testify or to produce books, documents, and papers re-

