PRENTICE v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

163

Syllabus.

The rule thus stated is the elementary commercial rule.
Indeed, in the case last cited this court expressed surprise that
the question should be raised. These views coincide with the
rulings of the 'EnglisA courts. The cases of Grant v. Norway,
10 C. B. 665, and Ilubber;sty v. 1Fard, 8 Exch. 330, were both
cases where bills of -lading were issued and held by third parties. The rule was uniform in England until the passage ofi
the Bills of Lading'Act, 18, 19, Vict. c. 111, § 3, making bills
of lading in the hands of consignees or endorsees for value
conclusive as to shipment.
Under these elementary principles we think there was manifest error below in maintaining the exception to the first
count in the amended answer. Of course, in so concluding we
proceed solely upon the admission which the exception to the
answer necessarily imported, and express no opinion as to
what would be the rule of law if the compress company had
not been the agent of the shipper, or if the goods 'had been
constructively delivered .to the carrier through the compress
company, who held them in the carrier's behalf.
The judgment is
Reversed and the case r'emandedfor further .proceedings in
accordance with this opinion.
JACKSON, not having heard the argument, took
no part in the decision of this cause.
'MR. JUSTICE

PRENTICE v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 319. Argued and submitted March 22, 1894.-Decided May 26, 1894.

When a deed contains a specific description of the land conveyed, by metes
and bounds, and a general description referring to the land as the same
land set off to B, and by B afterwards disposed of to A, the second de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
scription is intended to describe generally what had been before described by metes and bounds; and if, in an action of ejectment brought
by a grantee of A, as plaintiff, the description by metes and bounds does
not include the land sued for, it cannot be claimed under the general
description.

Tms action of ejectment was brought September 7, 1883,
to recover an undivided half of certain lands in the city of
Duluth, county of St. Louis, Minnesota. Pursuant to a written
stipulation of the parties the case was tried without a jury
and upon the question of title alone, and resulted -M r.
Justice Miller and Judge Nelson concurring -in a judgment
for the defendants. 43 Fed. Rep. 270.
The case made by the special finding of facts is substantially as follows:
The sixth section of article two of the treaty of the 36th
,day of September, A.D. 1854, 10 Stat. 1109, between. the
United States and the Chippewa Indians of Lake Superior
and the Mississippi -ratified pursuant to a resolution of the
United States Senate, passed on the 10th day of January,
1855, by the President on the 29th day of January, 1855 whereby those Indians ceded to the United States certain
territory lying adjacent to the headwaters of Lake Superior,
contained the following provision, viz.: "And being desirous
to provide for some of his connections who have rendered his
people important services it is agreed that Chief Buffalo may
select one section of land at such place in the ceded territory
as he may see fit, which shall be reserved for that purpose,
and conveyed by the United States to such person or persons
as he may direct."' p. 1110.
Under the provisions of the treaty and on the day of its
date, Chief Buffalo, by an instrument of writing executed by
him and filed inthe office of the United States Commissioner
of Indian Affairs at Washington, selected the land to be conveyed by the United States and appointed the persons to
whom it was, to 'be conveyed, indicating the selection and
appointment, as follows: "I hereby select a tract of land one
mile square, the exact boundary of which may be defined
when the surveys are made, lying on the west shore of St.

PRENTICE v. NORTHERN PACIFIC ,RAILROAD. 165
Statement of the Case.

Louis Bay, Minnesota Territory, immediately above and
adjoining Minnesota Point, and I direct that patents be
issued for the same, according to the above-recited provision,
to Shaw-Bwaw-Skung or Benjamin G. Armstrong, my adopted
son; to Matthew May-Dway-Gwon, my nephew; to Joseph
May-Dway-Gwon and Antoine May-Dway-Gwon, his sons,
one quarter section to each."
Matthew, Joseph, and Antoine, under date of September
17, 1855, executed and delivered to Armstrong an instrument,
assigning to him their right, title, and interest under *the
appointment and selection of Chief Buffalo. That assignment, after referring to the treaty and the above instrument
of selection and appointment, provided:
"In consideration of the premises and of one dollar to us
in hand paid by the said Benjamin G. Armstrong, the receipt
whereof is .hereby acknowledged, we do hereby sell, assign,
and transfer, jointly and severally, all our right, title, interest,
equity, claim, and property in and to the said land, and all
our right and equity in and to the said instrument so made
by the said Buffalo, jointly and severally, and our and each
of our right and equity to have patents issued to us, according
to the above-cited directions of the said Buffalo, and we
hereby direct, jointly and severally, that patents issue to said
Benjamin G. Armstrong accordingly."
This instrument of assignment was'executed by Matthew,
Joseph, and Antoine in the presence of and before the United
States agent, and the United States interpreter.
Armstrong and wife, September 11, 1856, made, executed,
and delivered to, the plaintiff herein a deed of conveyance,
the recited consideration being eight thousand dollars. The
land so conveyed is thus described in the deed: "One undivided half of all the following-described, piece or parcel of
land, situate in the county of St. Louis and Territory of
Minnesota, and known and described as follows, to wit:
Beginning at a large stone or rock at the head of St. Louis
River Bay, nearly adjoining Minnesota Point, commencing at
said rock and running east one mile, north one mile, west one
mile, south one mile to the place of beginning, and being the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

land set off to the Indian chief Buffalo at the Indian treaty
of September 30, A.D. 1854, and was afterwards disposed of
by said Buffalo to said Armstrong, and is now recorded with
the government documents, together with all and singular the
tenements, hereditaments, and appurtenances thereunto belonging or in anywise appertaining, and the reversion and
reversions, remainder and remainders, rents, issues, and profits
thereof," etc. This deed, sealed and delivered in the presence
of a justice of the peace of Wisconsin, was acknowledged by.
the grantors on the day of its execution before that officer,
whose official character was certified by the clerk of the
Circuit Court of the county where the acknowledgment was
made. It was not certified to have been acknowledged in
accordance with the laws of Wisconsin. The deed was duly
recorded in the county of St. Louis, Territory of Minnesota,
on the 4th day of November, A.D. 1856.
Armstrong and wife, on the 27th day of August, 1872,
executed and delivered to the plaintiff a confirmatory deed,
which was duly recorded in the county of St. Louis, State of
Minnesota, September 2, 1872. That deed was in these words:
"Whereas on the eleventh day of September, in the year
one thousand eight hundred and fifty-six, we, Benjamin G.
Armstrong and Charlotte Armstrong, wife of aforesaid Benjamin G. Armstrong, conveyed by a quitclaim. deed to
Frederick Prentice, of Toledo, Ohio, the undivided one-half
part of all our.interest in certain lands situated at or near the
head of St. Louis Bay, and intended to describe our interest
in what is known as the Chief Buffalo tract, at the head of
St. Louis Bay, Minnesota Territory, and then believing that
the description in said deed would cover or was the tract that
would be patented to us by the United States of America,
according to said Buffalo's wishes" and a contract we held
from the heirs of said Buffalo, but, to definitely fix upon the
lands designed to be conveyed, it was stated in said deed to
be the land set off to the Indian chief Buffalo at the Indian
treaty of September thirtieth, in the year one thousand eight
hundred and fifty-four; and, further, I, the said Armstrong,
gave a contract on the tenth day of September, in the year

PRENTICE v. NORTHE RN PACIFIC RAILROAD. 167
Statement of the Case.

one thousand eight hundred and fifty-six, to the said Frederick
Prentice, binding ourselves and heirs to give said Frederick
Prentice any further writing or instrument he might require.
"And on the first day of July, in the year one thousand
eight hundred and fifty-seven, I, Benjamin G. Armstrong, and
Charlotte Armstrong agreed to and did sell to Frederick
Prentice the other one-half of said Buffalo tract, for which
said Frederick Prentice paid us something over two thousand
($2000) dollars, and since that time has paid us to our full satisfaction for the whole property, and we agreed to and do by
these presents confess payment in full for the whole of the
above tract, in compliance of the first deed for the one undivided half and the carrying out of the contract to sell the
balance July first, in the year one thousand eight hundred
and fifty-seven, this is intended to cover the land deeded by
us to the said Prentice in the deed given on the eleventh day
of September, one thousand eight hundred and fifty-six, and
recorded in liber A of deeds, page 106, at Duluth, State of
Minnesota, and the land included in the contract of the first
of July, eighteen hundred and fifty-seven, and intended to
cover the lands as described in patents from the United States
of America to Benjamin G. Armstrong, Matthew May-DwayGwon, Joseph May-Dway-Gwon, and Antoine May-DwayGwon, and described as follows: To Benjamin G. Armstrong
the west half of the southwest quarter and the lot number
five (5) of section twenty-seven, and lot No. three (3) of
section thirty-four, containing together (182.62) one hundred
and eighty-two and sixty-two one-hundredths acres; and to
Joseph May-Dway-Gwon the southeast quarter of section
twenty-eight, containing one hundred and sixty acres; and
Antoine May-Dway-Gwon the east half of the northeast
quarter of section twenty-eight and the west half of the north-west quarter of section twenty-seven, containing one hundred
and sixty acres.
"And to Matthew May-Dway-Gwon the southwest quarter
of section twenty-two, containing one hundred and sixty acres,
all of the above being in township fifty north of range fourteen
west of the fourth principal meridian, State of Minnesota, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

the three last-named pieces of land have since been deeded by
the said Matthew, Joseph, and Antoine May-Dway-Gwon to
Charlotte Armstrong, but previous to the date of said deeds
the above-named Joseph, Matthew, and Antoine May-DwayGwon had assigned or transferred all their right, title, and
interest therein to the said Benjamin Armstrong. I, the aforesaid Benjamin G. Armstrong, did sell by deed and contract to
Frederick Prentice, which I, the said Charlotte Armstrong,
knew at the time, but did not know but that by getting another deed or conveyance after the patents were issued we
could sell the property, but am now satisfied that we had sold
and assigned all our right, title, and interest, to Frederick
Prentice previous to our deeding to any other person or persons, and that we had no right to deed or convey to any other
person or persons, as the 'title to the lands above described
was then virtually and by right vested in the said Frederick
Prentice, and that the first deed for the one-half and the contract for the remaining half of said land, with the payment
thereon made at the time by the said Frederick Prentice,
bound us to give him good and sufficient deeds to said property whenever so demanded; and we do hereby assign and
quitclaim all our right, title, and interest now or at any time
held by us to all the above-described property in fulfilment of
our agreement with the said Frederick Prentice."
The tract of land which Chief Buffalo had designated as his
selection on the day of the treaty did not correspond with the
section lines when the land came to be surveyed into sections,
and part of it was found to be occupied and claimed by certain
Indian traders under the treaty. After a lengthy correspondence and investigation in the Department of the Interior, the
relatives of Buffalo, entitled to the land reserved for them,
conceded the validity of the claims of these. Indian traders,
and, in lieu of the lands thus held by them, received other
lands adjacent to that selected by Buffalo to make up the
quantity of six hundred and forty acres, but not in the form
of a parallelogram, though maintaining a continuous connection.
A report of the Secretary of the Interior to the President,

PRENTICE v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

169

Statement of the Case.

under the date of September 21, 1858, and made part of the
findings, contained, among other things, the following:
"Now, therefore, under all the circumstances of the case,
it having been fully proved that these relatives of the Chief
Buffalo acquiesce in the selection made for them by Agent
Gilbert, and 'desire that patents should issue to them for this
land, and the Commissioner of Indian Affairs having recommended such approval, I have respectfully to request that you
will approve the same in order that patents may issue in
accordance with their request as follows, -viz.: To Matthew
May-dway-gon, S. W. I sec. 22, T. 50 N., R. 14 W.- 160
acres; To Antoine May-dway-gon, E. J N. E. I sec. 28 and
W. J N. W. I sec. 27, T. 50 N., R. 14 W.- 160 acres; to
Joseph May-dway-gon, S. E. I see. 28, T. 50 N., R.- 14 W. 160 acres; to Shaw-bwaw-skung or Benjamin G. Armstrong,
W. J S. W. J sec. 27, lot No. 3, sec. 34, lot No. 5, sec. 27,
182.62."
The patent to Armstrong, issued October 23, 1858, contained
the following recitals and description of the land embraced
by it:
"Whereas it appears from a return dated the twenty-seventh
day of September, one thousand eight hundred and fifty-eight,
from the office of Indian Affairs to the General Land Office,
that there has been selected and approved for I Shaw-BwawSkung, or Benjamin G. Armstrong,' as one of the 'connections' of said Chief Buffalo, the west half of the southwest
quarter and lot number five, both of section twenty-seven, and
lot number three of section thirty-four, contaihing together
one hundred and eighty-two acres and sixty-two hundredths
of an acre, all in township fifty north, of range fourteen west,
of the fourth principal meridian, in the State of Minnesota.
Now, know ye, etc."
The parties, at the trial, entered into the following stipulation:
"It is admitted for the purposes of the trial of the aboveentitled action that the land in dispute described in complaint
of plaintit herein is part of the land described and included
in the patent of the United States to Benjamin G. Armstrong,

OCTOBER TERMI,1893.
Statement of the Case.

dated October 23, 1858, and recorded in book 'B,' at page
500, in the office of the register of deeds of St. Louis County,
Minnesota; that the defendants are in possession of the
specific portions of said land described in their respective
answers herein, and as respects the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company is in possession of the certain portions of said land
colored blue upon the map hereto attached, and that all the
defendants assert title to said respective portions derived from
a certain deed made and executed by Benjamin G. Armstrong
and wife to John 11. Gilman, dated August 31, 1864, and recorded in the office of the register of deeds of St. Louis County,
Minnesota, September 12, 1864, in book 1C' of deeds, at page
665, and from certain other deed made and executed by Benjamin G. Armstrong and wife to Daniel S. Cash and James
H. Kelly, bearing date October 22, 1859, and filed for record
in the office of the register of deeds in and for said St. Louis
County January 5, 1860, and thereafter recorded in book 'C'
of deeds, at page 206 ; that the said defendants have succeeded
to whatever title or right said Kelly and Cash and said Gilman
obtained by virtue of said deeds, respectively, in and to the
premises in dispute; that at the commencement of this suit
said defendants withheld said premises and the rents, issues,
and profits of the same from said plaintiff, although they had
theretofore been requested to admit him to the possession of
an undivided half (J) of said premises and the rents and profits
thereof; that the undivided half (1) of the portion of the
premises described in said complaint claimed by each of said
defendants is worth fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) and upwards." The court found the facts in accordance with this
stipulation.
The United States government surveys of the lands ceded
by the treaty of September 30, 1854, to the United States had
not been made at the date of the deed from Armstrong to
plaintiff and were not made until the year following that date.
Gilman took the above conveyance without actual notice of
the deed from Armstrong to the plaintiff of September 11,
1856, or that plaintiff claimed an interest in the land so conveyed to him.

PRENTICE v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD. 171
Statement of the Case.

The defendants herein claim title to the pieces or parcels of
land in controversy as grantees of Gilman and under and
through the deed to Gilman of August 31, 1864.
The large stone or rock at the head of St. Louis River Bay,
nearly adjoining Minnesota Point, described in the deed from
Armstrong to Prentice, is the beginning of the boundary of
the tract conveyed, is well identified, and was generally known
to the few people familiar with the place, and was recognizable
at the time of the trial below, and a mile square measured
from that point as called for in the deed would wholly depart
from the shore of St. Louis Bay and would cover about onehalf or three-fifths land, and the remainder the water of Lake
Superior.
The land selected 'by Chief Buffalo lay upon the shore of
St. Louis Bay, immediately adjoining Minnesota Point, and
this selection was followed as near as it could be by the patents
of the United States issued to satisfy that reservation, considering the elimination from the mile square of the lands held
by the traders, and the Vagueness of Buffalo's description, and
the necessity of conforming the final grant to the surveys of
the United States.
If the lines of the course called for as east and west in the
deed of Armstrong to Prentice, under which the plaintiff
asserts his title, were exactly reversed, the description in that
deed would include a large part of the land actually selected
by Chief Buffalo, and also included in the patents from the
United States. But it would not include the land sued for in
this action.
The instrument executed by the Chief Buffalo, dated September 30, 1854, was the only selection or appointment ever
made by him under the sixth clause of the second article of
the said treaty.
Chief Buffalo died in the month of October, 1855.
At the date of the deed to Prentice, of September 11, 1856,
Armstrong did not have any interest in land in St. Louis
County, Minnesota Territory, except what he was entitled to
under the Buffalo selection and appointment above referred
to, and under the above assignment from the other.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The conclusions of law found by the Circuit Court were That the appointment of persons to whom the United States
were to convey the section of land reserved by the above proVision of said 'treaty, made by Chief Buffalo on the 30th day
of September, 1854, was a valid and sufficient appointment
under that provision, and, upon the ratification of the treaty,
vested in Armstrong and the other appointees named such an
interest as the treaty gave to the land so reserved;
That the patent of the United States to Armstrong and his
acceptance of it was a valid execution of the treaty on that
subject;
That the deed from Armstrong to plaintiffi of September
11, 1856, was, in its execution, acknowledgment, and recording, a valid and sufficient deed, and its record constructive
notice of its contents;
That the description in the deed of Armstrong to plaintiff
of September 11, 1856, is insufficient to convey his interest in
or title to any other or different tract of land to which he
might have been entitled under said treaty than the tract
described therein, and that said deed is ineffectual as a conveyance to -plaintiff of any interest or title except such as
'Armstrong had in or to the land therein described, and that
plaintiff took no title under it to the land for the possession
of which this action is brought;
That the quitclaim deed from Armstrong to Gilman of
August 31, 1864, conveyed to the latter such interest, and no
more, as Armstrong had in the land therein described at the
date of said deed; and
That the plaintiff is not entitled to recover in this action,
and judgment must go in favor -of the defendants for theircosts and disbursements.
.Mr. Eliku Root, (with whom were -Mr. 7ohn F. Dillon and
-Y. Samuel B. Clarke on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. William, W. Billson, for Fargusson, defendant in error,
submitted on his brief.
MnR. Jusrion- TI&LAN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

PRENTICE v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD. 173
Opinion of the Court.

The court below correctly interpreted the decision in
Prentice v. S&arn8, 113 U. S. 435, as holding that the deed
from Armstrong to Prentice, under which alone the latter
can assert a title to the land in controversy, was an instrument designed to convey a defined tract or parcel of land, not
any possible interest existing in Armstrong under the treaty
with the Chippewas, the selection of Buffalo, and the appointment that the lands selected by him should be conveyed to
Armstrong and other named relatives.
This question was reargued in the court below, in the
present case, in the light of additional facts supposed to have
been adduced.
Mr. Justice Miller, in his opinion in this case, said: "We
remain of the opinion we were on the former trial. The first
descriptive clause of the deed from Armstrong to Prentice is
of a tract of land a mile square, beginning at a large stone or
rock, which, as a matter of fact, we find in the present case
is now identified, and was well known at the time the deed
was made. The description proceeds with the points of the
compass one mile east, one mile north, one mile west, one mile
south, to the place of beginning. It would be difficult, the
beginning point being well ascertained, to imagine that Armstrong intended to convey any other land, or any other interest inland, or interest in any other land, than that so clearly
defined. And if that description is to stand as a part of the
deed made by Armstrong to Prentice, it leaves no doubt
where the land was; and there is no occasion to resort to any
inference that he meant any other land than that. It is now
found as a fact that this boundary would include a surface
from one-half to three-fourths of which is land, and the remainder is water of Lake Superior." 43 Fed. Rep. 270, 274.
The specific description by metes and bounds of the land
conveyed by the Armstrong deed to Prentice, namely, "one
undivided half of all the following-described piece or parcel
of land, situate in the county of St. Louis and Territory of
Minnesota, and known and described as follows: Beginning
at a large stone or rock at the head of St. Louis River Bay,
nearly adjoining MWinnesota Point, commencing at said rock

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

and running east one mile, north one mile, west one mile,
south one mile to the place of beginning," does not, it is conceded, embrace the land in dispute. Indeed, the plaintiff
insists, on several grounds, that that description should be
rejected altogether, as inaccurate and mistaken. And he is
driven to rest his claim of title to the lands in dispute upon the
clause of the deed, immediately following the words, above
quoted, namely, "and being the land set off to the Indian
Chief Buffalo, at the Indian treaty of September 30, 1854,
and was afterwards disposed of by said Buffalo to Armstrong,
and is now recorded with the government documents."
But the plaintiff, although compelled to rely upon the
words last quoted, insists that they mean what, in our opinion, is not justified by a fair interpretation of them. It
seems entirely clear that the words in the clause beginning
"and being the land," etc., were intended to describe, generally, what had been before specifically described by metes
and bounds; that "and being" is equivalent to "which is,"
in which case this clause of general description - the specific
description by metes and bounds being rejected as not embracing the- land - cannot, it is conceded, be regarded as an
independent description of the subject of the conveyance.
It is said that the deed should not be construed as intended
to convey merely a specific tract, and thereby make it inoperative, because, at the time it was executed, Armstrong did
not have any interest in-a specific tract that he could convey,
but only a general right, under the Buffalo document, to have
land located and patented to him by the United States.
Referring to the argument made by counsel in support of
this view, Mr. Justice Miller said, p. 274: "They say that the
reference to the land set off to the Indian Chief Buffalo at
the treaty of 1854 meant, not any definite piece of land, but
any land which might come to Buffalo or his appointees, of
whom Armstrong is one, by the future proceedings of the
government of the United States in that case; and that, no
matter where such land was found, provided it was within
the limits of the land granted by the Chippewa treaty, then
the deed from Armstrong to Prentice was intended to convey

PRENTICE v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

175

Opinion of the Court.

such after-acquired interests which were patented to the
parties by the United States. We do not see anything in
the whole deed or transaction between Armstrong and Prentice that points to or indicates any such construction of it.
Both clauses of the description are definite as to the land
conveyed, and treat it as a piece of land well described, well
known, and well defined. Of course, any man endeavoring
to ascertain what land was conveyed under that grant would
suppose that, when he found the stone or rock, which we now
as a matter of fact find to have an existence, and can be well
identified, he had bought a mile square according to the
points of the compass, the southwest corner of which commenced on that rook. He would not suppose that he had
bought something that might be substituted in lieu of that
mile square by future proceedings of the government of the
United States. And so with regard to the other description.
Buffalo had made his selection, had described the land which
he designed to go by that treaty, not to him, but to his relatives, whose names are given, and -itwas an undivided half
of this land thus selected by the Buffalo chief, and not-other
land, or different land which might come to Armstrong, that
he conveyed and intended to convey to Prentice."
After distinguishing this case from Doe v. Tilson, 23 How.
457, and Crews v. Buram,1 Black, 352, Mr. Justice Miller proceeded, p. 275, 276: "But in the case before us, not only had
Buffalo made his selection, and designated the parties to whom
the land should go, but the selection had definiteness about it
to a certain extent; it was a thing which could be conveyed
specifically, and which Armstrong undertook to convey specifically. It is not necessary that we resort to the supposition
that Armstrongwas talking about some vague and uncertain
right - uncertain, at least, as to locality and as to its relation
to the surveys of the United States - which he was intending to convey to Prentice, instead of the definite land which
he described or attempted to describe. If such were his purpose in this conveyance, it is remarkable that he did not say
so in the very few words necessary to express that idea, instead of resorting to two distinct descriptive clauses, neither

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

of which had that idea in it, one of which is rejected absolutely by the plaintiff's counsel as wholly a mistake, and the
other is too vague in its language to convey even what plaintiff claimed for it. We are not able, therefore, to hold with
counsel for plaintiff, that, if this conveyance does not carry
the title to. any lands which can be ascertained by that description in the deed, resort can be had to the alternative that
the deed was intended to convey any land that might ulti
mately come to Armstrong under the treaty, and under the
selection, and under the assignment to Buffalo."
We are entirely satisfied with these views. It results that
neither the description by metes and bounds, nor the general
description of the lands conveyed by the deed under which
the plaintiff claims, is sufficient to cover the lands here in
dispute.
Another matter deserves notice. It is found as a fact that
if the lines of the course called for as east and west in the
deed of Armstrong to Prentice, under which the plaintiff
asserts.title, were exactly reversed, the description in the deed
would include a large part of the land actually selected by
Buffalo Chief, and also included in the patents from the
United States. But this fact is immaterial, for it is found
that if the course were reversed, as suggested, it would not
include the particular lands here in controversy.
The case then is this: Looking into the deed, under which
the plaintiff claims title, for the purpose of ascertaining the
intention of the parties, we find there a speci.ic description,
by metes and bounds, of the lands conveyed, followed by a
general description which must be held to have been introduced for the purpose only of showing the grantor's chain of
title, and not as an independent description of the lands so
conveyed. As neither description is sufficient to cover the
landsin suit, there can be no recovery by the plaintiff in this
action of ejectment, whatever may be the defect, if any, in
the title 9f the defendants. If this were a suit in equity to
compel a reformation of the deed upon the ground that, by
mistake of the parties, it did not properly describe the lands
intended to be conveyed, and if such a suit were not barred

BALKAM1 v. WOODSTOCK IRON CO.
Syllabus.

by time, a different question would be presented upon the
merits.
What has been said renders it unnecessary to consider
whether the deed from Armstrong and wife to Prentice was
so acknowledged and certified as to entitle it under the laws
of Minnesota to record in that State, and, by such record,
become legal notice of its contents to Gilman and those
claiming under him.
We perceive no error in the record to the prejudice of the
plaintiff in error, and the judgment is

BALKA

v.WOODSTOOK IRON COMPANY.

ERROR TO TEE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE.

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 839. Argued March 28, 29, 1894.-Decided May 26, 1894.

An action of ejectment was brought in a state court of Alabama, in which
the parties were the same, the lands sought to be recovered were the
same, the issues were the same and the proof was the same as in this
action. That case was taken to the Supreme Court of the State, and it
was there held that, whilst the plaintiffs and those whom they represented had no legal right to bring an action of ejectment pending a life
estate in the premises, yet, in view¢ of a probate sale of the reversionary
interest and the recorded title thereto, and of the payment of the purchase price into the estate and its distribution among the creditors of
the estate, the heirs had an equitable right to commence a suit to remove
the cloud on the title which the probate proceedings created; and, inasmuch as they had failed to do so during twenty years, their right of
action was barred under the doctrine of prescription. The statutes of
Alabama provide that two judgments in favor of the defendant in an
action of ejectment, or in an action in the nature of an action of ejectment, between the same parties, in which the same title is put in issue,
are a bar to any action for the recovery of the land, or any part thereof,
between the same parties or their privies, founded on the same title.
The plaiutiffz, availing themselves of this statute, brought this suit.
Held, that, although the judgment of this court might be, if the question
were before it for original consideration, that the bar of the statute
would only begin to run upon the death of the holder of the life estate,
yet that, the court of last resort of the State having passed upon the
VOL. Cri'-12

