MORIISON v. WATSON.
Statement of the Case.

not have been misunderstood by any one who read them with
the slightest attention, least of all by the patentee. To uphold such a reissue under such circumstances would 'be to
grant a new and distinct privilege to the patentee at the expense of innocent parties, and would be inconsistent with the
whole course of recent decisions in this court. -Miller v.
BiaS Co., 104 U. S. 350; -Mahn v. Harwood, 112 U. S. 354;
Coon v. Wilson, 113 U. S. 268; Toplif v. Toplif, 145 U. S.
156; Huber v. Nelson Co., 148 U. S. 270; Leggett v. Standard
Oil Co., 149 U. S. 287; Corbin Co. v. Eagle Co., 150 U. S. 38.
The patent of November 24, 1885, has clearly not been
infringed by the defendant; for the peculiar feature of this
patent consists in the flap being constructed so that it can be
opened, and the contents taken out, without tearing the envelope or removing or breaking the fastenings; whereas in
the defendant's envelope that flap is fastened down So that
it cannot be opened without injury to it or to the envelope,
and the contents are taken out by opening a flap, no more
firmly secured than with gum, at the opposite end of the envelope.
Upon these grounds, without considering the questions of
lack of novelty and invention in the several patents, the entry
must be
Decree affJrmed.
MORRISON v. WATSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 177. Argued December 20, 1893. -Decided

May 26, 1894.

This court has no jurisdiction to review by writ of error a judgment of the
highest court of a State, as against a right under the Constitution of
the United States, if the right was not claimed in any form before judgment in that court.

THIS was an action, in the nature of ejectment, brought
April 11, 1883, in the superior court of Richmond county in

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

the State of North Carolina, to recover one hundred acres
of land in that county.
The case certified by that court to the Supreme Court of
the State began as follows:
"The plaintiff claimed title to the land described in the
conplaint by virtue of an execution sale and sheriff's deed
made pursuant thereto. The defendant denied that the plaintiff was the owner of the land or that he wrongfully withheld
possession thereof. He admitted being in the possession.
"The following issues were, without objection, submitted
to the jury: 1st. Is the plaintiff the owner and entitled to
the immediate possession of the land described in the complaint? 2nd. Did the defendant at the time of the bringing
of this action unlawfully withhold possession thereof ? 3rd.
What damages is the plaintiff entitled to recover "
The case then stated that the plaintiff gave in evidence
q deed of the land from the sheriff to himself, pursuant to
a sale thereof, for the price of $40, ou June 9, 1879, under an
execution duly issued April 5, 1879, upon a judgment rendered
May 17, 1870, against the defendant, for $35, and interest
from November 13, 1864, and costs, on a promissory note
shown by the judgment roll to have been payable at the date
last mentioned; and that the plaintiff also gave in evidence
the execution, and the officer's return thereon, stating that he
levied it upon this land. The case also stated that "no homestead was ever allotted to the defendant."
The case then stated that "the plaintiff, for the purpose of
showing that the lands of the defendant were, in June, 1879,
worth less than $1000 and the amount of the judgment,"
introduced, "after objection by defendant and exception to its
admission," evidence tendifg to show that fact; that the defendant also introduced evidence upon the question of the value
of the land; and set forth the testimony introduced by either
party; did not show that any evidence admitted was objected
to by the plaintiff ; and continued and concluded as follows:
"The defendant duly objected to all of the testimony in
regard to the value of the land, when it was offered, for that
the defendant's right to a homestead and the value of his land

MOIRISON v. WATSON.
Counsel for Parties.

could only be ascertained and determined in the manner provided by law, and not in the first instance by a jury empauneled to try the questi a of title. The court, in deference to
the opinion of• the Supreme Court in this case, admitted the
testimony. Morrison v. Watson., 95 No. Car. 479.
"The counsel for the plaintiff requested the court to charge
the jury: 1st. That there was no ovidence that the defendants' were worth in June, 1879, $1000 and the judgment,
interest and costs, amounting to $83; 2d. That upon the
whole evidence the plaintiff was entitled to recover. The court
declined to so instruct the jury, and the plaintiff excepted.
"The court then instructed the jury that they could -consider the whole evidence, and, after ascertaining the value of
the land per aure in June, 1879, they should make a calculation as to its total value. The court then explained to the
jury the issues, and the way in which the testimony should
be considered with respect to them; and instructed them that
they could consider the return on the execution in passing
upon the question whether the defendant had other property
than the land covered by the sheriff's deed; and that to
recover in this action the plaintiff must show by a preponderance of the testimony that the defendant's land was worth
in June, 1879, less than $1000, and the amount of the judgment, interest, and costs, amounting to $83, and that the
defendant had no other property.which could have been sold
to pay the judgment. Miller v. Miller, 89 No. Car. 402.
"The jury found the first and second issues in the negative.
Motion for a new trial for reception of the evidence objected
to, and for refusing the instruction asked, and for error in
the instruction given. Motion denied. Judgment in accordance with the verdict. Appeal by plaintiff."
The Supreme Court of the State, on November 12, 1888,
affirmed the judgment. 101 No. Car. 332. The plaintiff, on
September 4, 1890, stied out this writ of error.
Mi.. Frederic D. McKenney, (with whom was Mr. S. F.
Phillips8 on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
Xr. W. i. Flemming for defendant in error.
VOL. CLIV-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Ma.

JUSTICE

GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the

-opinion of the court.
The ground on which it was argued in this court that the
judgment of the Supreme Court of North Carolina should
be reversed was that, the debt, in execution of the judgment
upon which the land was sold to the plaintiff, having been
contracted before the constitution and laws of the State exerupted a homestead from execution, the obligation of the
contract was impaired by the statute of North Carolina, by
which, as construed by the Supreme Court of the State, such
a creditor is obliged to levy his execution, first, by sale of so
much of the debtor's land as is not within the homestead
exemption, and afterwards, if necessary, by separate sale of
the rest of the land.
But the difficulty is that'it does not appear that any objection to the constitutionality of the statute was taken by the
plaintiff in the courts of the State. On the contrary, he
appears to have assumed that the statute was constitutional
and valid; and that, if the land, at the time of the sale on
execution in June, 189, was not worth the sum of $1083,
made up of $1000 for the homestead, and $83 for the amount
of the judgment, he could not recover.
At the trial, after-proving his title under the sale on execution, he himself introduced, against the objection and exception of the defendant, evidence that the lands were worth
less than that sum. The only instructions which the plaintiff
asked, and to the refusal of which he excepted, were the
specific one "that there was no evidence that the defendants"
(apparently meaning the defendant's lands) "1were worth"
that.sum, and the general one "that upon the whole evidence
the plaintiff was entitled to recover." The instructions given
were not excepted to, and it does not appear for what supposed error in them a new trial was moved for and refused.
The plaintiff, therefore, up to the time of judgment in the
trial court, does not appear to have insisted that the levy
under which he claimed was valid if the estate was worth
more than the sum aforesaid, as the jury found that it was.

MORRISON v. WATSOX.
Opinion of the Court.

Nor does it appear that he brought any constitutional question before the Supreme Court of the State. No reasons of
his appeal to that court are stated in the record; and the
official report of its opinion shows that no counsel for the
plaintiff argued the case before that court. 101 No. Car. 332,
335. Under these circumstances, the fact that in that opinion
the construction and validity of the statute were treated as
settled by the ruling in the earlier case of 3olCaniles8 v.
.Flinchum, 98 No. Car. 358, and were restated by way of explanation of the defence at the trial of the present case, falls
short of showing that there was any real contest at any stage
of this case upon the point.
In order to give this court jurisdiction of a writ of error to
review a judgment of the highest court of a State, on the
ground that it decided. against a title, right, privilege, or
immunity claimed under the Constitution or a treaty or
statute of the United States, such title, right, privilege,
or immunity must have been "specially set up or claimed"
at the proper time and in the proper way. If it was not
claimed in the trial court, and therefore, by the law and practice of the State, as declared by its highest court, could not be
considered by that court; or if it was not claimed in any form
before judgment in the highest court of the State; it cannot
be asserted in this court. Rev. Stat. § 709; S*ies v. Illinois,
123 U. S. 131, 181; Brooks v. -Missouri,124 U. S. 391; Chappell y. Bradshaw, 128 U. S. 182, 134; Brown v. Massachusetts,
144 U. S. 573; Schuyler -YationalBank v. Bollong, 150 U. S.
85; .Miller v. Texas, 153 U. S. 535.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of North Carolina in
this case appears by the record to have been rendered on
November 14, 1888; and it is perhaps significant that this
writ of error was not sued out until September 4, 1890, after
that court in Long v. Walker, 105 No. Car. 90, had changed
its opinion as to the validity and effect of the statute.
Writ of error dismissedfor want ofjurisdotion.
MR. JUsTcE W=E, not having been a member of the court

when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

