MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. McFADDEN. 155
Statement of the Case.

the sentence, which, of course, had reference only to the
offence of which the accused was found guilty.
There are other 'assignments of error, but no one of them
requires notice.
Upon a careful examination of the record, we do not find
that any error was committed to the prejudice of the accused.

The judgment is afflrmed.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
MoFADDEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 318.

Argued and submitted March 22, 1894. -Decided May 26, 1894.

If a railroad company, for its own convenience and the convenience of its
customers, is in the habit of issuing bills of lading for cotton delivered
to a compress company, to be compressed before actual delivery to the
railroad companyr with no intention on the part of the shipper or of the
carrier that the liability of the carrier shall attach before delivery on its
cars, and the cotton is destroyed by fire while in the hands of the compress company, the railroad company is not liable for the value of the
cotton, so destroyed, to an assignee of the bill of lading without notice of
the agreement and course of dealing between the shipper and the carrier.

THE defendants in error (plaintiffs below) sued in the Circuit Court of Hunt County, Texas, to recover the*value of
two hundred bales of cotton, alleged to have been shipped
from Greenville, Texas, to Liverpool, England, the shipments
having been -evidenced by two bills of lading, each for one
hundred bales of cotton.
On application of the defendant below, the case was
removed to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Texas. After filing the record in that
court, the pleadings were amended. The amended answer
set up the following, among other special defences, on behalf
of the company:
"First. That while it is true that it had issued certain bills

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

of lading for said cotton, said cotton had not yet in deed
and in truth been delivered to it. It was the habit and the
custom of defendant, and well known to plaintiffs to be such,
after cottons were placed on the platforms at the compress
in Greenville, before the same was compressed, it would issue
bills of lading therefor to consignors desiring to ship. Said
cottons would be delivered to the compress for the purpose
of compressing, and- that at the time they were so delivered
to it the superintendent of the compress or the agent of the
compress would check out such cottons intended and the shipper would make out a bill of lading, which would be 0. K.'d
by the superintendent of the compress or its agent, and afterwards it would be brought to the agent of the defendant and
by him signed up, and defendant would actually receive said
cotton only after it was compressed and delivered upon its
cars. This course was pursued as a matter of convenience by
the compress company and the shipper, but-it was not intended
by either the shipper or the defendant that the liability of the
defendant should attach until the cotton was actually delivered
upon its cars. This custom was well known to the plaintiffs,
George H. McFadden & Bro. and to A. Fulton & Co., and
the bills of lading were made out according to this custom by
A. Fulton & Co. as herein shown, and accepted by A. Fulton
and Co. according to such- custom. At the time said bills of
lading were made the cotton was in the hands of the compress
according to the custom aforesaid, and had never been delivered to defendant, the defendant's liability as a common carrier
had never attached, nor bad any liability attached, but said
cotton, while it was in the hands of the compress company,
was wholly destroyed by fire and never came to the hands of
defendant. Defendant says said cotton was placed on said
platform at said compress for the purpose of being compressed
by A. Fulton & Co.; that they well knew, intended, and expected said cotton should be compressed before it was shipped.
Said cotton while at the compress was under the control of
A. Fulton & Co. or their agent the compress company."
The answer thereupon proceeded to set out other matters to
which it, is unnecessary to refer.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. McFADDEN. 157
Argument for Defendants in Error.

The plaintiff replied to the amended answer and excepted
to the first count, as follows:
"And they specially except to the first count in defendant's
special answer, in so far as the same attempts to set up a custom
of the manner of receiving cotton and issuing bills of lading,
because the same does not show that the custom was such as
is recognized and binding in law, but attempts to set up a
custom which is contrary to law, and because the same does
not show that it was such a custom as would relieve the defendant from liability on a contract in writing."
The reply then proceeded to except to other parts of the
defendant's answer.
The court sustained the plaintiffs' exception to the first
count of the amended answer, to which ruling exception was
reserved. Thereupon the facts were stated to be, 1st, that
the bills of lading had been issued to Fulton & Co.; 2d, that
they were assigned to the plaintiffs; 3d, that the value of the
cotton was $864'.83 at the time it was destroyed, and that
the defendant had never paid therefor.
Upon this evidence, the case was submitted to the court
without a jury, and the court found for the plaintiffs and gave
judgment for the value of the cotton. The case was brought
here by writ of error.
M . James HJagerman and Mr. JosepA M2.B'ryon, for plaintiff in error, submitted on their brief.
M. George Wharton Pepper,(who, on motion of Mr. George
F. Edmunds, had been granted leave to appear for the purpose of arguing this case orally), for defendants in errom
Mr.
J -Bayard Henry was with him on his brief. To the point
on which the case was decided he said:
The liability of the defendant as carrier attached upon
the execution and delivery of the bills of lading, and prior to
the destruction of the cotton by fire.
Upon this point the finding of the learned judge in the
court below was as follows: "After the signing of said bills,
by the defendant, its duty and liability as a common carrier
commpnced.,"

158

1 OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

In a case before the Supreme Court of Texas, which grew
out of much the same facts as those upon which this case
depends, -Missouri Pacific Railway v. Sherwood, 19 S. W.
Rep. 455 (1892), the defendant company does not appear
to have thought it worth while to contend that its liability
as carrier had not attached at the time of the fire. The state
court, following the decision of Judge McCormick, seems to
have considered it too clear for argument that when the
shipper had parted with all control and custody of the goods,
and the carrier, by its bill of lading, had acknowledged the
receipt of them, the liability of the carrier, whether limited
or unlimited, attached eo instanti.
Now, however, the learned counsel for the plaintiff in error
strenuously contend that the liability of the carrier had not
accrued at the time of the fire, and they cite in support of
the proposition several decisions, which, upon examination,
are found (it is submitted) to have no bearing upon the case
in hand.
Considering the case first upon principle, it will, of course,
be admitted that the giving of the bill of lading for the goods
raises afrimafaciesthat the carrier has received them. Such
a prima faies may be set aside ,byproof that the issuing of
the bill was due to mistake, or fraud, or misrepresentation.
But the delivery of the bill "is said to be very high and
authentic evidence" not only of the receipt of the goods, but
"of both the quantity and condition of the goods when they
were received, though not an estoppel to show the truth."
Hutchinson on Carriers, 2d. ed. ยง 122.
How is it sought in this case to set the presumption aside?
No error, or fraud, or mistake is even averred. The railway
company places its whole reliance upon an alleged "custom"
in force at Greenville, according to which all cotton to be
shipped over the defendant's road was by public invitation
of the defendant, deposited upon a platform controlled by a
' compress company, which company is admitted by the defend.ant to have been a party to an agreement with the carrier,
according to which the carrier issued a bill of lading" immediately upon receiving notice of the deposit of the cotton. It

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. McFADDEN.

159

Opinion of the Court.

is almost preposterous to contend that there is in such a
custom any feature which in any respect varies the carrier's
liability. Either the custom is consistent with the unqualified acceptance of which the bill of lading is evidence, or it
is a custom which, by the making of the bill, the parties have
excluded by their contract.
These considerations, deduced from principle, are in nowise
inconsistent with the cases cited by the plaintiff in error.
For example: in i7r-on Mountain Railway v. Knight, 122 U. S.
79 (t886, the question was whether the recital in a bill was
conclusive as to the quality of cotton shipped. The cotton
had been shipped to Texarkana, to be there made up into
bales at a compress-house by the carrier under the direction
of the shipper, who, from time to time, selected bales of different quality for shipment, but the bills were often issued
before the particular bales were separated from the mass.
Obviously, therefore, the liability of the defendant as a carrier could not begin until the property which it was to carry
was identified. But, more than this, the case is actually favorable to our contention, for Mr. Justice Matthews could not
have used language more applicable to the present case than
that which: is found on page 93: "It may be said that the
defendants. liability as a common carrier commenced at a
time antecedent to the delivery of the cotton to be loaded on
the cars, that it might have arisen upon a prior delivery of
the cotton in question in the warehouse to be compressed,
and then transported, the duty of compressing it, in order to
prepare it for transportation, having been undertaken by the
defendant. This, however, could only be where the specific
goods, as the property of the plaintiffs, were delivered for
that purpose into the exclusive possession and control of the
defendant." It will be perceived at a glance that the condition of the carrier's liability, in conformity with the view of
the learned justice, is entirely satisfied by the facts of this
case.
MR. JUsTicE

WHITE,

opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

OCTOBER TERM[j 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Many questions were discussed at bar which we deem it
unnecessary to notice, as we consider that the whole case
depends upon the correctness of the judgment of the court
below in sustaining the exception to the first defence in the
amended answer. That defence averred that the cotton for
which the bills of lading were issued was never delivered to
the carrier; that by a custom or course of dealing oetween
the carrier and the shipper it was understood by both parties
that the cotton was not to be delivered at the time the bills of
lading were issued, but was then in the hands of a compress
company, which compress company was the agent of the shipper; and that it was the intention of the parties at the time
the bills of lading were issued that the cotton should remain
in the hands of the compress company, the agent of the
shipper, for the purpose of being compressed, and that this
custom-was known to the plaintiffs and transferees of the bills
of lading; and that, whilst the cotton was so in the hands of
the compress company, the agent of the shipper, and before
delivery to the carrier, it was destroyed by fire.
All of these allegations in the answer were, of course,
admitted by the exception, and, therefore, the case presents
the simple question of whether a carrier is liable on a bill of
lading for property which at the time of the signing of the
bill remained in the hands of the shipper for the purpose of
being compressed for the shipper's account, and was destroyed
by fire before the delivery to the carrier had been consummated. The elementary rule is that the liability of a common
carrier depends upon the delivery to him of the goods which
he is to carry. This rule is thus stated in the text-books:
"The liability of a carrier begins when the goods are delivered
to him or his proper servant authorized to receive them for
carriage." Redfield on Carriers, 80. "The duties and the
obligations of the common carrier with respect to the goods
commence with their delivery to him, and this delivery must
be complete, so as to put upon him the exclusive duty of
seeing to their safety. The law will not divide the duty or the
obligation between the carrier and the owner of the goods.
It must rest entirely upon the one or the other; and until it

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY v. McFADDEN. 161
Opinion of the Court.

has become imposed upon the carrier by a delivery and
acceptance he cannot be held responsible for them." Hutchinson on Carriers, 82.
This doctrine is sanctioned by a unanimous course of
English and American decisions. Schooner Freeman v. Buckingham, 18 How. 182; The Lady Franklin,8 Wall. 325; The
Delaware, 14 Wall. 579; Pollard v. Vinton, 105 U. S. 7;
Iron Mountain Railway v. Knight, 122 U. S. 79; Friedlander v. Texas & Pacifjt Railway, 130 U. S. 423; St. Louis,
Iron 3fountain &c. Railway v. Commercial Union Ins. Co.,
139 U. S. 233; Barron v. Fldredge, 100 Mfass. 455; .Afose8 v.
Boston & 2iaine Railroad,4 Foster, (24 N. H.) 71; Brind v.
Dale, 8 Car. & P. 207; $elway v. Holloway, 1 Ld. Raym. 46;
Buckman v. Levi, 3 Camp.: 414; Leigh v. Smith, I Car. & P.
638; Grant v. NVorway, 10 C. B. 665; Hubbersty v. Ward,
8 Exch. 330; Coleman v. Riches, 16 C. B. 104. Indeed, the
citations might be multiplied indefinitely.
Whilst the authorities may differ upon the point of what
constitutes delivery to a carrier, the rule is nowhere questioned
that when delivery has not been made to the carrier, but, on
the contrary, the evidence shows that the goods remained in
the possession of the shipper or his agent after the signing and
passing of the bill of lading, the carrier is not liable as carrier
under the bill.
Of course, then, the carrier's liability as such will not attach
on issuing the bill in a case where not only is there a failure to
deliver but there is also an understanding between the parties
that delivery shall not be made till a future day, and that the
goods until then shall remain in the custody of the shipper.
Does the fact that the plaintiffs claim to be assignees of the
bill of lading without notice of the agreement and course of
dealing between the shipper and the carrier confer upon them
greater rights as against the carrier than those which attach
under the bill of lading in the hands of the parties to whom it
was originally issued and who made the agreement?
It is to be remarked, in considering this question, that the
averment of the answer, which was admitted by the exception, charged that the course of dealing between the parties
YOL. CLIV-11

OCTOBER TERMT, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

in accordance with which the goods were not delivered at the
time of the issuance of the bills of lading, but remained in the
hands of the -compress company, which was the agent of
the shipper, was known to the plaintiffs, the holders of the
bills of lading. It is clear that, whatever may be the effect
of custom and course of dealing upon the question of legal
liability, proof of such -custom and course of dealing would
have been admissible, not in order to change the law, but for
the purpose of charging the plaintiffs, as holders of the bills
of lading, with knowledge of the relations between the parties.
That a bill of lading does not partake of the character of
negotiable paper, so as to transfer to the assignees thereof the
rights of the holder of such paper, is well settled. Said this
court in Pollardv. Vinton,, 105 U. S. 7, 8:
"AA bill of lading is atr instrument well known in commercial transactions, and its character and effect have been defined
by judicial decisions. In the hands of the holder it is evidence
of ownership, special or general, of the property mentioned
in it, and of the right to receive said property at the place
of delivery. Notwithstanding it is designed to pass from
hand to hand, with or without endorsement, and it is efficacious for its ordinary purposes in the hands of the holder, it
is not a negotiable instrument or obligation in the sense that
a bill of exchange 'r a promissory note is. Its transfer does
not preclude, as in those cases, all inquiry into the transaction
in which it originated, because it has come into the hands of
persons who have innocently paid value for it. The doctrine
of lona fide purchasers only applies to it in a limited sense.
"It is an instrument of a twofold character. It is at once a
receipt and a contract. In the former character it is an
acknowledgment of the receipt of property on board his

vessel by the owner of the vessel. In the latter it is a contract to carry safely and deliver. The receipt of the goods lies
at the foundation of the contract to carry and deliver. If no
goods are actually received, there can be no valid contract to
carry or to deliver." See also The. Lady Fr'anklin,8 Wall.
325,

PRENTICE v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD.

163

Syllabus.

The rule thus stated is the elementary commercial rule.
Indeed, in the case last cited this court expressed surprise that
the question should be raised. These views coincide with the
rulings of the 'EnglisA courts. The cases of Grant v. Norway,
10 C. B. 665, and Ilubber;sty v. 1Fard, 8 Exch. 330, were both
cases where bills of -lading were issued and held by third parties. The rule was uniform in England until the passage ofi
the Bills of Lading'Act, 18, 19, Vict. c. 111, ยง 3, making bills
of lading in the hands of consignees or endorsees for value
conclusive as to shipment.
Under these elementary principles we think there was manifest error below in maintaining the exception to the first
count in the amended answer. Of course, in so concluding we
proceed solely upon the admission which the exception to the
answer necessarily imported, and express no opinion as to
what would be the rule of law if the compress company had
not been the agent of the shipper, or if the goods 'had been
constructively delivered .to the carrier through the compress
company, who held them in the carrier's behalf.
The judgment is
Reversed and the case r'emandedfor further .proceedings in
accordance with this opinion.
JACKSON, not having heard the argument, took
no part in the decision of this cause.
'MR. JUSTICE

PRENTICE v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 319. Argued and submitted March 22, 1894.-Decided May 26, 1894.

When a deed contains a specific description of the land conveyed, by metes
and bounds, and a general description referring to the land as the same
land set off to B, and by B afterwards disposed of to A, the second de-

