INTERSTATE COMIERCE C0tI. v. BRIMSON.

447

Syllabus.

and the rule of all property taxation is the rule of value, and
by that rule property engaged in interstate commerce is controlled the same as property engaged in commerce within the
State. Neither is this an attempt to do by indirection what
cannot be done directly -that is, to cast a burden on interstate commerce. It comes rather within that large class of
state action, like certain police restraints, which, while indirectly affecting, cannot be considered as a regulation of interstate commerce, or a direct burden upon its free exercise. We
answer this question, therefore, in the.negative.
These are the only matters which seem to distinguish this
case from the two preceding, and, therefore, the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Indiana is
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE BRoWN dissented from
the opinion and judgment in this case upon the grounds stated

in their dissenting opinion in Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago
& St. Louis Railway Company v. Backus, No. 899, ante, 421,
437.
AIR.

JUSTICE; JACKSON

did not hear the arguments in this

case, or take any part in its decision.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. BRIMSON.
APPEAL FRO31 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 883. Argued April 16, 1894. -Decided

May 26, 1894.

The twelfth section of the Interstate Commerce Act authorizing the Circuit Courts of the United States to use their process in aid of inquiries
before the Commission established by that act, is not in conflict with
the Constitution of the United States, as imposing on judicial tribunals
duties not judicial in their nature.
A petition filed under that section in the Circuit Court of the United States
against a witness, duly summoned to testify before the Commission, to
compel him to testify or to produce books, documents, and papers re-

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

lating to the matter under investigation before that body, makes a case
or controversy to which the judicial power of the United States extends.
As every citizen is bound to obey the law and to yield obedience to the
constituted authorities acting within the law, the power conferred upon
the Interstate Commerce Commission to require the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of books, papers, and documents relating to a matter under investigation by it, imposes upon any
one summoned by that body to appear and testify the duty of appearing
and testifying, and upon any one required to produce such books, papers,
and documents the duty of producing them, if the testimony sought and
the books, papers, etc., called for relate to the matter under investigation,
if such matter is one which the Commission is legally entitled to investigate, and if the witness is not excused by the law on some personal
ground from doing what the Commission requires at his hands.
Power given to Congress to regulate interstate commerce does not carry
with it authority to destroy or impair those fundamental guarantees of
personal rights that are recognized by the Constitution as inhering in
the freedom of the citizen.
It was open to each of the defendants in this proceeding to contend before
the Circuit Court that he was protected by the Constitution from making auwer to the questions propounded to him or that he was not
bound to produce the books, papers, etc., ordered to be produced, or that
neither the questions propounded nor the books, papers, etc., called for
related to the particular matter under investigation, nor to any matter
which the Commission was entitled under the Constitution or laws to
investigate. - This issue being determined in their favor by the court
below, the petition of the Commission could have been dismissed upon
its merits.
Hayburn's Case, 2 Dall. 409; United States v. Ferreira,13 How. 40; Todd's
Case, 13 How. 52; Gordon v. United States, 117 U. S. 697; In re Sanborn,
148 U. S. 222, examined and distinguished.
The inquiry whether a witness before the Commission is bound to answer
a particular question propounded to him, or to produce books, papers,
etc., in his possession and called for by that body, is one that cannot be
committed to a subordinate. administrative or executive tribunal for
final determination. Such a body could not, under our system of government, and consistently with due process of law, be invested with
authority to compel obedience to its orders by a judgment of fine or
imprisonment.
Except in the particular instances enumerated in the Constitution, and considered in Anderson v. Dyunn, 6 Wheat. 204, and in Kilbourn v. Thompson,
103 U. S. 168, 190, of the exercise by either house of Congress of its right
to punish disorderly behavior upon the part of its members, and to compel
the attendance-of witnesses, and the production of papers in election and
mpeachment cases, and in cases that may involve the existence of those
bodies, the power to impose fine or imprisonment in order to compel the
performance of a legal duty Imposed bythe United States can only be

INTERSTATE- COMMERCE COMM. v. BRIMSON.

449

Argument for Appellees.
exerted, under the law of the land,.by a competent judicial tribunal having jurisdiction in the premises.
A proceeding under the twelfth section of the Interstate Commerce Act is
not merely ancillary and advisory, nor is its object merely to obtain an
opinion of the Circuit Court that would be without operation upon the
rights of the parties. Any judgment rendered will be a final and indisputable basis of action as between the Commission and the defendant,
and furnish a precedent for similar cases. The judgment is none the
less one of a judicial tribunal dealing with questions judicial in their
nature and presented in the customary forms of judicial proceedings,
because its effect may be to aid an administrative or executive body in
the performance of duties legally imposed upon it by Congress in execution of a power granted by the Constitution.
The issue made in such a case as this is not one for the determination of
a jury, nor can any question of contempt arise until the issue of law in
the Circuit Court is determined adversely to the defendants, and they
refuse to obey, not the order .of the Commission, but the final order of
the court. In matters of contempt a jury is not required by due process
of law.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Seepost, pages 456 to 468.

Mr. Sorlicitor General for appellant. Mr. Attorney General and Mr. George . Edmund8 filed a brief for same.
Mr. E. Parmaee Prentice, (with whom were Mr. . C.
Hutchin8 and Mr. C. . Holt on the brief,) for appellees.
I. This investigation was in its nature judicial, and authority to make it could not lawfully be conferred by Congress
upon the Interstate Commerce Commission, which is in its
nature an administrative and not a judicial body.
Whether Congress could create a judicial body charged with
any or all of the duties that pertain to the Interstate Commerce Commission need not be considered. Those Commissioners are appointed for a term of years, and not during
good behavior, as the Constitution requires for Federal judges.
This question received most thorough and careful examination
by Mr. Justice Jackson in Kentucky Bridge Co. v. Louicville &
Araehville Railroad, 37 Fed. Rep. 567, 612, et seq.

The inquiry which the Commission was pursuing was
judicial.

We assert with entire confidence, that it is not one

VOL. cLv-29

OCTOBER TERM, f893.
Argument for Appellees.

of the constitutional means included in the power to regulate
interstate commerce, to delegate to a non-judicial body the
duty of inquiring whether such commerce "is carried on
according to the requirements of law." The proposition thus
laid down by counsel is that Congress may authorize compulsory inquiry by a non-judicial body for the purpose of discovering and punishing past violations of law. A m6re
startling proposition has seldom been asserted in this court.
These violations are, if anything, crimes, punishable by heavy
penalties of fine and imprisonment, and the investigation of
the question whether crime has been committed is not an
administrative act within any possible construction of the
language. Such an inquiry is a function of the courts, with
their historic appropriate machinery of the grand jury.
Cooley, Const. Lim. (5th ed:) 109, 110. See also Comm'onwealth v. Jones, 10 Bush, 725, where the Supreme Court of
Kentucky held that the legislature even of a State, could not
empower election boards to decide whether a citizen by dueling has forfeited his right to vote or hold office, since that
determination involves a judicial question. Authorities might
be .multiplied on this point, but we do not think it necessary.
That the inquiry in this case is judicial and only judicial,
it seems impossible to doubt. We are at a loss to know how
counsel expects to make it appear otherwise. Tried by any
test with which we are familiar, the result is the same. The
language of the order entered by the Commission, and of the
"informal complaints" on which that order was based, is
susceptible of no other construction. The wrong complained
of was that the Illinois Steel Company, by means of the
"switching roads" as the device, was violating the provisions
of the Interstate Commerce Act by obtaining unjust prefcrences over other shippers. The law makes one and only
one provision in such a case, viz., the punishment of the persons responsible for such violation.
It is obvious that no special sanctity attaches to the name,
the number, or the personality of the body in whish this
power is attempted to be lodged. If Congress may authorize
such inquiry by a commission of five distinguished citizens

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMM. v. BRIMSON.

451

Argument for Appellees.

appointed for a term of years, it may, under the same constitutional warrant, confer like power on a single individual
for the entire country, or on a different individual for each
State or county or railroad, or may attach it as a duty to an
existing office, such as that of postmaster or United States
marshal. It may thus constitute an indefinite number of
irresponsible citizens into detectives, armed with inquisitorial
authority and a roving commission. For the safety and liberty
of the citizen, Congress ought not to have any such power.
It is gratifying to discover that wherever the question has
been presented, the courts have decided that it has no such
power.
A clearer or more emphatic statement could hardly be made,
than has been made by the Interstate Commerce Commission
itself on this precise point. We should almost be willing to
submit this branch of the case upon its annual report of the
Commission for 1893.
Turning from principle to authority, we find discussion
practically foreclosed by the vigorous and decisive opinion of
Mr. Justice Field in In re PaoiftoRailroadCommission, 32 Fed.
Rep. 241. The act creating that commission conferred power
in terms as broad and as plausible as those of section 12 of the
Interstate Commerce Act, directing an inquiry into the management of certain railroad companies and into the relations
of the directors, officers, and employ~s of said companies with
other concerns having contracts with the companies under
investigation, and also whether the companies, or their officers
or agents, had paid money or done anything else for the purpose of influencing legislation. These powers, like the powers
attempted to be conferred on the Interstate Commerce Commission, contained two elements. Some of them were purely
and offensively inquisitorial, searching into business which
was wholly private. For the rest, the information sought
could only be material as a foundation for subsequent judicial
(i.e. criminal) proceedings. In the first part of his opinion
Mr. Justice Field, with great power and unanswerable logic,
demonstrates that this is a judicial inquiry; that the. Commission is in no respect a judicial body, and that under our

OCTOBEIR TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellees.

system of government such a body cannot conduct such an
inquiry. le cites the decision of this court by Mr. Justice
Miller in Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168, and the case
of Boyd v. The United States, 116 UT. S. 616, which equally
with the .Kilourn case in his language, is "a bulwark against
the invasion of the right of the citizen to protection in his
private affairs," adds, "the courts are open to the United
States as they are to the private citizen, and both can there
secure by regular proceeding, ample protection of all rights
and interests which are entitled to protection under a government of a written constitution and laws."
II.Even if Congress could empower the Commission to
make this investigation, still it could not empower the court
to grant the order applied for; because, whether the character of the inquiry is judicial or non-judicial, the question
does not here arise in a case or controversy as required by
the Constitution.
If this investigation by the Interstate Commerce Commission is other than judicial in its character, then by the very
terms of its organization a judicial tribunal has no power
over it. But that it is a judicial inquiry we have sufficiently
shown by argument and authority. It remains to show that,
as here presented, it, is such an inquiry as does not fall within
the constitutional province of this court.
The Federal Constitution provides that: "The judicial
power shall extend to all cases in law and equity arising
under the Constitution, the laws of the United States and
treaties made, or which shall be made under their authority,
to controversies to which the United States shall be
a party,

.

.

.

,tc."

The two clauses cited are the only ones under which, by
any possible construction, the present application could fall.
No power is granted except under the' two categories of
"cases" and "controversies." It was early decided, and has
never been seriously questioned, that these words not only
express, but limit the judicial power of the United States,
and that only " cases" and "c o ntroversies" can find an entrance into the Federal courts. What these words mean, and

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COWM. v. BRI.ASON.

453

Argument for Appellees.

how strictly they define the power of the Federal judiciary
may be seen from a few citations. Justice Field, in the case
above cited, says:
"The term 'controversies,' if distinguishable at all from
'cases,' is in that it is less comprehensive than the latter, and
includes only suits of a civil nature." Citing Chlwhn v.
Georgia, 2 Dall. 432.
What, then, are "cases"? Judge Story answers as follows:
"Another inquiry may be, what constitutes a case within the
meaning of this clause?' It is clear that the judicial department is authorized to exercise jurisdiction to the full extent
of the Constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States,
whenever any question respecting them shall assume such a
form that the judicial power is capable of acting upon it.
When it has assumed such a form, it then becomes a case;
and'then, and not till then, the judicial power attaches to it.
A case, then, in the sense of this clause of the Constitution,
arises when some subject touching the Constitution, laws, or
treaties of the United States is submitted to the courts ly
a party who asserts his rights in the form prescribed by law.
In other words, a case is a suit in law or equity, instituted
according to the regular course of judicial proceedings; and
when it involves any question arising under the Constitution,
laws, or treaties of the United States, it is within the judicial
power confided to the Union." Story Const. § 1646.
In Osborn v. Ban of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738, 819,
Chief Justice Marshall says: "This clause enables the judicial
department to receive jurisdiction to the full extent of the
Constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States, when any
question respecting them shall assume such a form that the
judicial power is capable of acting upon it. That power is
capable of acting only when tho subject is submitted to it by
a party who asserts his rights in the .form prescribed by law.
It then becomes a case."
So, also, this court, by Mr. Justice Field, has compactly
defined "cases and controversies" in the following language:'
"By those terms are intended the claims or contentions of
litigants, brought before the courts for adjudication by regular

OCTOBER TERAM, 1893.
Argument for Appellees.

proceedings established for the protection or enforcement of
rights, or the prevention, redress, or punishment of wrongs."
Smith v. Adams, 130 U. S. 167, 173.
The courts have uniformly and repeatedly refused to recognize as "cases " or "controversies" questions arising at a
preliminary stage before the judicial power is called into exercise, or subject to revision by another department after the
courts have done with them. Under the first head falls
United States v.Ritchie, 17 How. 525. The language of the
act creating the California Land. Claims Commission seems
to be framed with a studious purpose of making the.Commission an adjunct of the court, and provides eo nomine an
"appeal" from its decision. This court decided that the
Commission could only be supported at all by treating it as a
purely administrative body, and that the so-called "appeal"
was, in legal effect, the institution of a new suit, the judicial
power being then for the first time invoked.
In Ferreira'sCase, 13 How. 40,45, the proceeding was held
not to be a constitutional "case," because there was a similar
discretion lodged in the Secretary of State after the court
should have rendered its decision upon the validity of any
given claim.
The precise objection here urged was recognized by Mr.
Justice Gray, now of the United States Supreme Court, speaking as Chief Justice for the Supreme Court of Massachusetts,
in the case of Supervisors of Elections, 114 Mass. 247. The
Massachusetts constitution defined and limited very strictly
the division of powers between the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments. It was held by the Supreme Court that
an act of the legislature, requiring the court on petition to
appoint supervisors of elections, was unconstitutional, as imposing non-judicial duties upon the court. Judge Gray says:
"These supervisors, although entrusted with a certain discretion in the performance of their duties, are strictly executive
officers. They make no report or return to the court or
any judge thereof. Their duties relate to no judicial suit
or proceeding. . . . We are unanimously of the opinion
that the power of appointing such officers cannot be con-

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COAMI.

v. BRIMSOK.

455

Argument for Appellees.

ferred upon the justices of this court without violating the
constitution of the Commonwealth. We cannot exercise this
power as judges, because it is not a judicial function, nor as
commissioners, because the constitution does not allow us to
hold any such office."
This decision is not weakened in any way by the acts of
Congress authorizing the Federal Judges to appoint supervisors of election. The grounds of distinction pointed out by
Judge Gray are unnecessary to be considered, since the Federal
Constitution, article 2, section 2, clause 2, expressly authorizes
Congress to "vest the appointment of such inferior officers as
they shall think proper, in the President alone, in the courts of
law, or in the heads of departments." It is held by this court,
in Exparte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371, that the appointment of
Federal supervisors by the courts is warranted by this clause
of the Constitution. The reasoning of Judge Gray in the
Massachusetts case is strictly applicable here.
We come back finally to the proposition, which counsel
does not state in terms, but which is involved in all of his
argument, that any petition to a court, however non-judicial
in form, asserting a right, however non-judicial in character,
on one side, and an answer denying the right on the other,
constitute a case or controversy, even though, as here, the
denial is based upon the ground that there is no case or controversy. But if every unfounded assertion of a right, in a
non-judicial form, could make a "case," the whole constitutional limitatiqn would be meaningless and void. This will
readily appear if we leave out of sight for a moment the congressional authority on which the asserted right is here sup.
posed to be based, and test the question as between private
parties. A duty imposed by Congress has no higher sanctity
than the obligations of a private contract. Suppose, then,
that some years ago a private individual had filed a petition,
setting up that by contract a senator of the United States,
upon good cons'deration, had agreed to make known to the
petitioner the reasons which influenced the senator to support
the Conpromise of 1850, which agreement the senator was
now refusing to perform, and praying that performance be

OCTOBtER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ordered by summary process, subject to the pains and penalties of contempt; and that the senator, being served with
process or notice, had 'come into court and denied that the
subject-matter of the application was a case or controversy
within the Constitution. The situation would be in legal
effect precisely what is said to exist in the case at bar -the
right of petitioner to have the information asserted on the
one side and denied on the other.
Does this make a case of judicial cognizance? Obviously
not, for the reason that the court, looking into the subjectmatter of the application, discovers that it is of a non-judicial
character. But the right of the court to examine into the
nature of the subject-matter is fatal to the argument in question. If a right, asserted on the one side and denied on the
other, is judicial or otherwise according to the nature of the
right, then it is idle to argue that the assertion and denial
alone make a constitutional "case."
That the court will look at the nature of the right, and not
merely at the form in which it is asserted, to determine
'whether there is or is not a "case" for judicial consideration,
is abundantly settled by authority. See -Murray's-essee v.
H~oboken land Co., 18 How. 282; Fereira'sCase, 13 How.
45; Scott v. Nfeeley, 140 U. S. 106; Puterbaugh v. Smith, 131
Illinois, 199; Ki0hourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168; Langenberry v. Deckcr, (Indiana,) 31 N. E. Rep. 190.
MN£R. JUSTICE

HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This appeal brings up for review a judgment rendered
December 7, 1892, dismissing a petition filed in the Circuit
Court of the United States on the 15th day of July, 1892, by
the Interstate Commerce Commission under the act of Congress entitled "An act to regulate commerce," approved February 4, 1887, and amended by the acts of March 2, 1889,
and February 10, 1891. 24 Stat. 379, c. 104; 25 Stat. 855,
c. 382 ; 26 Stat. 743, c. 128; 1 Supp. Rev. Stat. 529, 684, 891.
The petition was based on the twelfth section of the act
authorizing the Commission to invoke the aid of any court of

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMM. v. BRIMSON.

457

Opinion of the Court.

the United States in requiring the attendance and testimony
of witnesses, and the production of documents, books, and
papers.
The Circuit Court held that section to be unconstitutional
and void, as imposing on the judicial tribunals of the United
States duties that were not judicial in their nature. In the
judgment of that court, this proceeding was not a case to
which the judicial power of the United States extended. 53
Fed. Rep. 476, 480.
The provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act have no application to the transportation of passengers or property, or
to the receiving, delivering, storing, or handling of property,
wholly within one State and not shipped to a foreign country
from any State or Territory, or from a foreign country to any
State or Territory. But they are declared to be applicable to
carriers engaged in the transportation of passengers or property wholly by railroad, or partly by railroad and partly by
water when both are used, under a common control, management, or arrangement, for a continuous carriage or shipment
from one State or Territory of the United States. or the District of Columbia, to any other State or Territory of the
United States, or the District of Columbia, or from any place
in the United States to an adjacent foreign country, or from
any place in the United States through a foreign country to
any other place in the United States, and also to the transportation in like manner of property shipped from any place
in the United States to a foreign country and carried from
such place to a port of transshipment, or shipped from a foreign country to any place in the United States and carried to
such place from a port of entry either in the United States or
an adjacent foreign country.
The term "railroad" as used in the act includes all bridges
and ferries used or operated in connection with any railroad,
and also all the road in use by any corporation operating a
railroad, whether owned or operated under a contract, agreement, or lease; and the term "transportation" includes all
instrumentalities of shipment or carriage.
All charges made for services rendered or to be rendered in

OCTOBER TEYM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the transportation of passengers or property, as above stated,
or in connection therewith, or for the receiving, delivering,
storing, or handling of such property, are required to be
reasonable and just; and every unjust and unreasonable
charge for such service is prohibited and declared to be unlawful. § 1.
Any carrier subject to the provisions of the act, directly
or indirectly, by special rate, rebate, drawback, or 6ther
device, charging, demanding, collecting, or receiving from
any person or persons a greater or less compensation for
services rendered or to be rendered in the transportation of
passengers or property, than it charges, demands, collects, or
receives for doing a like and contemporaneous service in the
transportation of a like kind of traffic under substantially
similar circumstances and conditions, is to be deemed guilty
of unjust discrimination, which the act expressly declares to
be unlawful. § 2.
So it is made unlawful for any such carrier to make or give
any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to any
particular person, company, firm, corporation, or locality, or
to any particular description of traffic, or to subject any particular person, company, firm, corporation, or locality, or any
particular kind of traffic, to undue or unreasonable prejudice
or disadvantage in any respect. And carriers subject to the
provisions of the act are required to afford, according to their
respective' powers, all reasonable, proper, and equal facilities
for the interchange of traffic between their respective lines,
and for the receiving, forwarding, and delivering of passengers and property to and from their several lines and those
connecting therewith, and not to discriminate in their rates
and charges between such connecting lines; but this regulation does not require a carrier to give the use of its tracks
or terminal facilities to another carrier engaged in lile business. § 3.
It is made unlawful for any carrier subject to the provisions
of the act to charge or receive any greater compensation in
the aggregate for the transportation of passengers or of like kind
of property under substantially similar circumstances and con-

IINTERSTATE COMMERCE COLI.

v. BRIMSON.

459

Opinion of the Court.

ditions, for a shorter than for a longer distance over the same
line, in the same direction, the shorter being, included within
the longer distance; but this does not authorize the charging
and receiving as great compensation for a short as for a longer
distance. Upon application to the Commission, the carrier
may in special cases after investigation by that body, be
authorized to charge less for longer than for short distances
for the transportation of passengers or property; and the
Commission may from time to time prescribe the extent to
which the carrier may be relieved from the operation of this
section. § 4.
It is also made unlawful for any carrier subject to the provisions of the act to enter into any contract, agreement, or
combination with any other carrier or carriers for the pooling
of freights of different and competing railroads, or to divide
between them the aggregate or net proceeds of the earnings
of such railroads, or any portion thereof ; and in any case of
an agreement for the pooling of freights as aforesaid each
day of its continuance is deemed a separate offence. § 5.
Another section of the act provides for the printing and
posting by carriers of their rates, fares, and charges for the
transportation of passengers and property, including terminal
charges, classifications of freight, and any rules or regulations
affecting such rates, fares, and .charges, including the rates
established and charged for freight received in this country
to be carried through a foreign country to any place in the
United States; forbids any advance or reduction in such rates,
fares, and charges, so established and published, except upon
public notice, of which changes the Commission shall be notified ; requires every carrier to file with the Commission copies
of all contracts, agreements, or arrangements with other
carriers relating to any traik, affected by the provisions of
the act, as well as copies of schedules of joint tariffs of rates,
fares, or charges for passengers and property over continuous
lines or routes operated by more than one carrier; declares it
to be unlawful for any carrier, party to any joint tariff, to
charge, demand, collect, or receive from any person or persons a greater or less compensation for the transportation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

persons or property, or for any services in connection therewith between any points as to which a joint rate, fare, or
charge is named thereon than is specified in the schedule
filed with the Commission in force at the time; authorizes in
addition to the penalties prescribed for neglect or refusal to
file or publish rates, fares, and charges, a writ of mandamus
to be issued by any Circuit Court of the United States in the
judicial district wherein the principal office of the carrier is
situated, or wherein such offehce may be committed, and if
such carrier be a foreign corporation, in the judicial circuit
wherein it accepts traffic, and has an agent to perform such
service, to compel compliance with the above; provisions of
the section relating to schedules of rates, fares, and charges
-such
writ to issue in the name of the people of the United
States, at the relation of the commissioners appointed under
the provisions of the act, and the failure to comply with its
requirements being punishable as and for a contempt; and
empowers the commissioners, as complainants, to apply, in
any such Circuit Court of the United States, for a writ of
injunction against the carrier, to restrain it from receiving or
transporting property among the several States and Territories of the United States, or between the United States and
adjacent foreign countries, or between ports of transshipment
and of entry and the several States and Territories of the
United States, as mentioned in the first section of the act,
until the carrier shall have complied with the provisions last
referred to. § 6.
So a common carrier sibject to the provisions of the act is
forbidden to enter into any combination, contract, or agreement, expressed or implied, to prevent by change of time
schedule, carriage in different cars, or by other means or
devices, the carriage of freights from being continuous from
the place of shipment to the place of destination; and no
.break of bulk, stoppage, or interruption made by such common carrier shall prevent the carriage of freights from being,
and being treated, as one continuous carriage from the place
of shipment to the place of destination, unless such break,
stoppage, or interruption was made in good faith for some

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMM. v. BRIMISONT.

461

Opinion of the Court.

necessary purpose, and without any intent to avoid or unnecessarily interrupt such continuous carriage or to evade any of
the provisions of the act.

§ 7.

By the eleventh section a commission is created and established, to be known as the Interstate Commerce Commission,
and to be composed of five commissioners, appointed by the
President, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate. § 11.
Other sections give a right of action to the persons injured
by the acts of carriers done in violation of the statute; prescribe penalties against carriers for illegal exactions and discriminations; and indicate how the provisions of the statute
may be enforced against carriers by the Commission.
The twelfth section, 26 Stat. 743, c. 128, the validity of certain
parts of which is involved in this proceeding, provides as follows:
"That the Commission hereby created shall have authority to
inquire into the management of the business of all common
carriers subject to the provisions of this act, and shall keep
itself informed as to the manner and method in which the
same is conducted, and shall have the right to obtain from
such common carriers full and complete information necessary
to enable the Commission to perform the duties and carry
out the objects for which it was created; and the Commission
is hereby authorized and required to execute and enforce the
provisions of this act; and, upon the request of the Commission,
it shall be the duty of any district attorney of the United
States to whom the Commission may apply to institute in the
proper court and to prosecute under the direction of the Attorney General of the United States all necessary proceedings
for the enforcement of the provisions of this act and for the
punishment of all violations thereof, and the costs and expenses of such prosecution shall be paid out of the appropriation for the expenses of the courts of the United States;
and for the purposes of this act the Commission shall have
power to require, by subpoena, the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of all books, papers, tariffs, contracts, agreements,' and documents relating to any matter under
ixvestigation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

"Such attendance of witnesses and the production of such
documentary evidence, may be required from any place in the
United States, at any designated place of hearing. And in
case of disobedience to a subpcena the Commission, or any
party to a proceeding before the Commission, may invoke the
aid of any court of the United States in requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books,
papers, and documents under the provisions of this section.
"And any of the Circuit Courts of the United States within
the jurisdiction of which such inquiry is carried on may, in
case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena issued to any
common carrier subject to the provisions of this act, or other
person, issue an order requiring such common carrier or other
person to appear before said Commission (and produce books
and papers if so ordered) and give evidence touching the
matter in question; and any failure to obey such order of the
court may be punished by such court as a contempt thereof.
The claim that any such testimony or evidence may tend to
criminate the person giving such evidence shall not excuse
such witness from testifying; but such evidence or testimony
shall not be used against such person on the trial of any criminal proceeding.
"The testimony of any witness may be taken, at the instance
of a party, in any proceeding or investigation depending before
the Commission, by deposition, at any time after a cause or
proceeding is at issue on petition and answer. The Commission
may also order testimony to be taken by deposition in any
proceeding or investigation pending before it, at any* stage of
such proceeding or investigation. Such depositions may be
taken before any judge of any court of the United States, or
any commissioner of a circuit, or any clerk of a District or Circuit Court, or any chancellor, justice, or judge of a Supreme
or Superior Court, mayor or chief magistrate of a city, judge
of a county court, or court of common pleas of any of the
United States, or any notary public, not being of counsel or
attorney to either of the parties, nor interested in the event of
the proceeding or investigation. Reasonable notice must first
be given in writing by the party or his attorney proposing to

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMM. v. BRIMSON.

463

Opinion of the Court.

take such deposition to the opposite party or his attorney of
record, as either may be nearest, which notice shall state the
name of the witness and the time and place of the taking of
his deposition. Any person may be compelled to appear and
depose, and to produce documentary evidence, in the same
manner as witnesses may be compelled to appear and testify
and produce documentary evidence before the Commission as
hereinbefore provided.
"Every person deposing as herein provided shall be cautioned and sworn (or affirm, if he so request) to testify the
whole truth, and shall be carefully examined. His testimony
shall be reduced to writing by the magistrate taking the deposition, or under his direction, and shall, after it has been reduced to writing, be subscribed by the deponent.
"If a witness whose testimony may be desired to be taken
by deposition be in a foreign country, the deposition may be
taken before an officer or person designated by the Commission, or agreed upon by the parties by stipulation in writing to be filed with Commission. All depositions must be
promptly filed with the Commission.
"Witnesses whose depositions are taken pursuant to this
act, and the magistrate or other officer taking the same, shall.
severally be entitled to the same fees as are paid for like services in the courts of the United States." § 12.
The nature of the present proceeding, instituted pursuant to
the authority conferred by that section, will appear from .the
following summary of the pleadings and orders in the- cause:
Prior to the 14th of June, 182, informal complaint was
made to the -Interstate Commerce Commission, under the
provisions *of the Interstate Commerce Act, that the Illinois
Steel Company, a corporation of Illinois, had caused -to be
incorporated under the laws of that State the Caluimet and
Blue Island Railroad Company, the Chicago and Southeastern
Railway .ompany of Illinois, the Joliet and Blue Island Railway Company, and the Chicago and Kenosha Railway Company, for the purpose of operating its switches and side tracks
at South Chicago, Chicago, and Joliet, respectively, and engaging in traffic by a continuous shipment from cities and

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

places without to cities and places within Illinois, in connection, respectively, with the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company, the Baltimore and Ohio Southwestern Railroad
Company, the Illinois Central Railroad Company, the Lake
Shore and Michigan Southern Railway Company, the Chicago,
Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company, the Pittsburgh,
Fort Wayne and Chicago Railway Company, the Pennsylvania Company, the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, the
Belt Railway Company, the Chicago and Alton Railroad
Company, the Chicago Railway Transfer Company, the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 Railway Company, the Elgin,
Joliet and Eastern Railway Company, the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company, and the Chicago, Milwaukee and
St. Paul Railway Company; that it had also caused to be
incorporated under the laws of Wisconsin, for the purpose of
operating its switches and side tracks at or near Milwaukee,
in that State, and engaging in traffic or traffic by a continuous shipment from places and cities without to cities and
places .within Wisconsin, in connection with the Chicago,
Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company, and the Chicago
and Northwestern Railway Company; and that said Illinois
Steel Company owned and controlled the above-named companies, which it caused to be incorporated under the laws of
Illinois, and operated them in connection with the other companies named, "as a device for the purpose of evading the
provisions of the act to regulate commerce, and obtaining
special, illegal, unjust, and unreasonable rates for the transportation of interstate traffic," and, by the connivance and
consent of said other connecting railroad companies, in such
a manner as to give to the Illinois Steel Company an illegal,
undue, and unreasonable preference and advantage, subjecting
other persons, firms, and companies to undue and unreasonable prejudice and discrimination in the transportation of property from divers cities and places without the States of Illinois
and Wisconsin to divers cities and towns within those States.
It was made to appear to the Commission that the companies so owned, controlled, and operated by the Illinois Steel
Company for more than the six months then last past had

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMM. v. BRIMSOI.

465

Opinion of the Court.

been and were still engaged in the transportation of property
by railroad in connection with the other companies named
"C
under a common control, management, and arrangement for
a continuous carriage or shipment" from divers cities and
towns without to divers cities and towns within the States of
Illinois and Wisconsin, and that none of the companies, so
owned, controlled, and operated, had filed with the Commission copies of their contracts, agreements, and common
arrangements with the other companies, nor their tariffs nor
schedules of rates, fares, and charges as required by the act of
Congress.
The Commission, of its own motion, decided. to investigate
the matters set forth in said iiformal complaint by inquiring
into the business of all of said railroad companies and the
management thereof with reference as well to the alleged
making of illegal, -unjust, and unreasonable rates, as to the
.alleged unjust and illegal discrimination in favor of the Illinois Steel Company, and the failure, as above stated, to file with
the Commission the above contracts, agreements, and tariffs.
An order was thereupon made by. the Commission, which
recited the facts of the informal complaint made to it, and
required each of the above-mentioned companies to make and
file -inits office in Washington, a full, complete, perfect,
and specific verified answer, setting forth all the facts in regard
to the matters complained of and responding to the following
questions:
1. Does any contract, agreement, or arrangement in writing
or otherwise exist between the conipanies above alleged to be
under the control [of] and operated by the said Illinois Steel
Company and any of the other companies with reference to
interstate traffic? If so, state the contract, agreement, or
arrangement.
2. Or [are] any tariffs of rates and charges for the transportation of interstate property in effect between said companies.above alleged to be under the control of and operated by
the Illinois Steel Company and said other railroad companies?
If so, what are they and what are the divisions thereof between the several carriers ?
VOL. cLIv-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

3. Have the companies above alleged to be under the control of and operated by the Illinois Steel Company received
interstate traffic from any of the other carriers above mentioned during the' six months last past, or have they delivered
any such traffic to such other carriers during that time, for
any person, firm, or company other than the Illinois Steel
Company? and if so, to what amount?
The order further required all of the companies named to
appear before the Commission at a named time and place in
Chicago, when that body would proceed to make inquiry into
and investigate the management of the said business by the
carriers so ordered to appear.
Each of the companies which, according to the allegations
of the petition, the Illinois Steel Company had caused to be
incorporated, filed its answer with the Commission, and
averred that it had in all respects complied with the obligations imposed upon it by the laws of the State and of the
United States; that it was not engaged in interstate commerce
within six months preceding the filing of the complaint
against them; and it answered "1No" to each of the above
specific questions. The Calumet and Blue Island Railway
Company also, denied that the operation of its railways was a
device to evade the provision of the Interstate Commerce Act,
or had resulted in obtaining for the Illinois Steel Company
special, illegal, unjust, or unreasonable rates in interstate
traffic or in securing to that company illegal, undub, or unreasonable preferences.
The Commission, notwithstanding these denials, conceived
it to be their duty to. proceed with the investigation by the
examination of witnesses and the books and papers of the
corporations involved, and especially to ascertain whether
the Illinois Steel Company was the owner in fact of the railroads, which it was alleged to have caused to be incorporated,
and whether such incorporations were for the purpose of giving to that company an undue and illegal preference in the
transportation of its property and freight.
Among the witnesses subpcenaed to testify before the Commission was William G. Brimson, the president and manager

INTERSTATE C0MIIERCE CO IM. v. BRIISON.

467

Opinion of the Court.

of the five roads so incorporated in Illinois. Being asked
what constituted the principal traffic of the roads, he said:
"The business of these roads, except as indicated in the
answers, is that of switching- switching business. We do
a switching and terminal business, in that we are open to any
business, for anybody's property, or persons who may locate
at such place where we can go to them; mainly our business
is with the Illinois Steel Company. This is the great proportion of our business." In reply to the question whether his
company engaged in transportation business other than as
stated by him, he said that they did not, "except the Calumet
and Blue Island, as stated in our reply. On that we do engage in other business to a certain extent." Having stated
that his companies did not engage in the transportation business for everybody and anybody having occasion to employ
them, and that their business was limited to the above companies with which they had traffic arrangements, he was
asked whether the companies of which he was president and
manager were owned by the Illinois Steel Company. The
witness, under the advice of counsel, refused to answer this
question.
J.S. Keefe, secretary and auditor of the five roads mentioned, was examined by the Commission as a witness. He
admitted that he had in his possession a book showing the
names of the stockholders of the Calumet and Blue Island
Railway Company, but refused, upon the demand of the Commission, to produce it. He also refused to answer the
question, "Do you know, as a matter of fact, whether the
Illinois Steel Company owns the greater part of the stock of
these several railroads ?"
William R. Stirling, first vice-president of 'the Illinois Steel
Company, was also examined as a witness, and after stating
that that company had a contract with the five railroads in
question to handle the railroad business at the five "plants'
of the Steel Company, refused to answer the question, "Is
that the only relation which your company sustains to these
railroad companies ?"
On the succeeding day the Commission issued a sub)mena

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

duce8 tecum, directed to J. S. Keefe, secretary and auditor of
the five railroads in question, commanding him to appear
before that body, and bring with him the stock books of those
companies. A like subpcena was issued to William R. Stirling, as first vice-president of the Steel Company, commanding
him to appear before the Commission and produce the stock
books of ihat company. Keefe and Stirling appeared in
answer to the subpcenas, but refused to produce the books or
either of them so ordered to be produced.
The Commission thereupon, on the 15th day of July, 1892,
presented to and filed in the, court below its petition embodying the above facts, and prayed that an order be made requiring and commanding Brimson, Keefe, and Stirling to appear
before that body and answer the several questions propounded
by them and which they had respectively refused to answer,
and requiring Keef6 and Stirling to appear and produce before the Commission the stock books above referred to as in
their possession.
The answers of Brimson, Keefe, and Stirling in the present
proceeding, besides insisting that the questions propounded to
them, respectively, were immaterial and irrelevant, were based
mainly upon the gr6und that so much of the Interstate Commerce Act as empowered the Commission to require the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
books, papers, and documents, and authorized the Circuit Court
of the United States to order common carriers or persons to
appear before the Commission and produce books and papers
and give evidence, and to punish by process for contempt any
failure to obey such order of the court, was repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States.
Is the twelfth section of the act unconstitutional and void,
so far as it authorizes or requires the Circuit Courts of the
United States to use their process in aid of inquiries before
the Commission? The court recognizes the importance of
this question, and has bestowed upon it the most careful
consideration.
As the Constitution extends the judicial power of the United
States to all cases in law and equity arising under that instru-

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMM. v. BRIMSON.

469

Opinion of the Court.

ment or under the laws of the United States, as well to all
controversies to which the United States shall be a party,
(Art. 3, sec. 2,) and as the Circuit Courts of the United States
are capable, under the statutes defining and regulating their
jurisdiction, of exerting such power in cases or controversies
of that character, within the limits prescribed by Congress,
25 Stat. 434, c. 866, the fundamental inquiry on this appeal is
whether the present proceeding is a '"case" or "controversy"
within the meaning of the Constitution. The Circuit Court,
as we have seen, regarded the petition of the Interstate Commerce Commission as nothing more than an application by an
administrative body to a judicial tribunal for the exercise of
its functions in aid of the execution of duties not of a judicial
nature, and accordingly adjudged that this proceeding did not
constitute a case or controversy to which the judicial power
of the United States could be extended.
At the same time the learned court said: "Undoubtedly,
Congress may confer upon a non-judicial body authority to
obtain information necessary for legitimate governmental purposes, and make refusal to appear and testify before it touching matters pertinent to any authorized inquiry, an offence
punishable by the courts, subject, however, to the privilege of
witnesses to make no disclosures which might tend to criminate them or subject them to penalties or forfeitures. A prosecution or an action for violation of such a statute would clearly
be an original suit or controversy between parties within the
meaning of the Constitution, and not a mere application, like
the present one, for the exercise of the judicial power in aid
of a non-judicial body." In re Interstate Comr' erce Commi8sion, 53 Fed. Rep. 476, 480.
In other words, if the Interstate Commerce Act made the
refusal of a witness duly summoned to appear and testify
before the Commission in respect to a matter rightfully committed by Congress to that body for examination, an offence
against the United States, punishable by fine or imprisonment,
or both, a criminal prosecution or an information for the violation of such a statute would be a case or controversy to
which the judicial power of the United States extended;

OCTOBER TER f, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

while a direct civil proceeding, expressly authorized by an act
of Congress, in the name of the Commission, and under the
direction of the Attorney General of the United States,
against the witness so refusing to testify, to compel him to
give evidence before the Commission touching the same matter, would not be a case or controversy-of which cognizance
could be taken by any court established by Congress to
receive the judicial power of the United States.
This interpretation of the Constitution would restrict the
employment of means to carry into effect powers granted to
Congress within much narrower limits than, in our judgment,
is warranted by that instrument.
The Constitution expressly confers upon Congress the power
to regulate commerce with foreign nations, among the severial
States, and with the Indian tribes, and to make all laws
necessary and proper for carrying that power into execution.
Art. 1, § 8. While the completely internal commerce of a
State is reserved to the State itself, because never surrendered
to the general government, commerce, the regulation of which
is committed by the Constitution to Congress, comprehends
traffic, navigation, and every species of commercial intercourse
or trade between thd United States, among the several States,
and with the Indian tribes. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1,
193; 194. ' It may be doubted," this court has said, "whether
any of the evils proceeding from the feebleness of the Federal
government contributed more to that great revolution which
introduced the present system than the deep and general conviction that commerce ought to be regulated by Congress. It
is not, therefore, matter of surprise that the grant should be
as extensive as the mischief, and should comprehend all foreign
commerce, and all commerce among the States. To construe
the power so as to impair its efficiency would tend to defeat
an object, in the attainment of which the American public
took, and justly took, that strong interest which arose from a
full conviction of its necessity." Brown v. 3faryland, 12
Wheat. 419,446; Phila.Steamship 0o. v. Pennsylvania,122 U. S.
326, 346. "In the matter of interstate commerce," this court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley, has declared," the United

INTERSTATE COMIERGE COMM. v. BRIMSON.

171

Opinion of the Court.

States are but one country, and are and must be subject to
one system of regulations, and not to a multitude of systems."
Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489, 494. The
same principle was announced by the present Chief Justice in
Stoutenburg v. Eenniek,. 129 U. S. 141, 148.
What is the nature of the power thus expressly given to
Congress, and to what extent, and under what restrictions,
may it be constitutionally exerted ?
This question was answered when Chief Justice MNarshall
said that it was the power "to prescribe the rule by which
commerce is to be governed." "This power," the Chief Justice
continued, "like all others vested in Congress, is complete in
itself, may be exercised to its utmost extent, and acknowledges
no limitations other than are prescribed in the Constitution.
These are expressed in plain terms, and do not affect the
questions which arise in this case, or which have been discussed
at the bar. If, as has always been understood, the sovereignty
of Congress, though limited to specified objects, is plenary as
to those objects, the power over commerce with foreign
nations and among the several States is vested in Congress as
absolutely as it would be in a single government having in its
constitution the same restrictions on the exercise of the power
as are found in the Constitution of the United States. The
wisdom and the discretion of Congress, their identity with the
people, and the influence which their constituents possess at
elections, are, in this, as in many other instances, as that, for
example, of declaring war, the sole restraints on which they
have relied to secure them from its abuse. They are the
restraints on which the people must often rely solely in all
representative governments." Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1,
189, 196-7.
Congress thus having plenary power subject to the limitations imposed by the Constitution to prescribe the rule by
which commerce among the several States is to be governed,
the question necessarily arises, what are the principles that
should control the judiciary when determining whether a particular act of Congress, avowedly adopted in execution of that
power, is consistent with the fundamental limitations of the
Constitution?

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The general principle applicable to this subject was long
ago announced by this court, and has been so often affirmed
and applied that argument in support of it is unnecessary, even
if it were possible to suggest any thought not heretofore
expressed in the adjudged cases. In the great case of .foCulloo, v. -Maryland,4 Wheat. 316, 421, 423, it was said: "The
sound construction of the Constitution must allow to the
national legislature that discretion, with respect to the means
by which the powers-it confers are to be carried into execution,
which will enable that body to perform the high duties
assigned to it, in the manner most beneficial to the people.
Let the end be legitimate, let it be within the scope of the
Constitution, and all means which are appropriate, which are
plainly adapted to that end, which are not prohibited, but
consistent with the letter and spirit of the Constitution, are
constitutional" Again: "Where the law is not prohibited,
and is really calculated to effect any of the objects entrusted
to the government, to undertake here to inquire into the
degree of its necessity would be to pass the line which circumscribes the judicial department, and to tread on legislative
ground. This court disclaims all pretensions to such a
power."
Guided by these principles, we proceed to inquire whether
the twelfth section of the Interstate Commerce Act, so far as
it authorizes the present proceeding, assumes to invest the Circuit Courts of the United States with functions that are not
judicial.
It was not disputed at the bar, nor indeed can it be successfully denied, that the prohibition of unjust charges, discriminations, or preferences, by carriers engaged in interstate
commerce, in respect to property or persons transported from
one State to another, is a proper regulation of interstate commerce, or that the object that Congress has in view 'by the act
in question may be legitimately accomplished by it under the
power to regulate commerce among the several States. In
every substantial sense such. prohibition is a rule by which
interstate commerce must be governed, and is plainly adapted
to the object intended to be accomplished. The same obser-

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMM. v. BRIMSON.

413

Opinion of the Court.

vation may be made in respect to those provisions empowering
the Commission to inquire into the management of the business
of carriers subject to the provisions of the act, and to investigate the whole subject of interstate commerce as conducted
by such carriers, and, in that way, to obtain full and accurate
information of all matters involved in the enforcement of the
act of Congress. It was clearly competent for Congress, to
that end, to invest the Commission with authority to require
the attendance and testimony of witnesses, and the production
of books, papers, tariffs, contracts, agreements, and documents
relating to any matter legally committed to that body for investigation. We do not understand that any of these propositions are disputed in this case.
Interpreting the Interstate Commerce Act as applicable,
and as intended to apply, only to matters involved in-the regulation of commerce, and which Congress may rightfully subject to investigation by a commission established for the purpose
of enforcing that act, we are unable to say that its provisions
are not appropriate and plainly adapted to the protection of
interstate commerce from burdens that are or may be, directly
and indirectly, imposed upon it by means of unjust and unreasonable discriminations, charges, and preferences. Congress
is not limited in its employment of means to those that are
absolutely essential to the accomplishment of objects within
the scope of the powers granted to it. It is a settled principle
of constitutional law that "the government which has a right
to do an act, and has imposed on it the duty of performing
that act, must, according to the dictates of reason, be allowed
to select the means; and those who contend that it may not
select any appropriate means, that one particular mode of
effecting the object is excepted, take upon themselves the
burden of establishing that exception." 4 Wheat. 316, 409.
The test of the power of Congress is not the judgment of the
courts that particular means are not txe best that could have
been employed to effect the end cofitomplated by the legislative department. The judiciary cag only inquire whether the
means devised in the execution of a power granted are forbidden by the Constitution. It cannot go beyond that inquiry

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

without entrenching upon the domain of another department of the government. That it may not do with safety
to our institutions. Sinking Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700,
718.
An adjudication that Congress could not establish an
administrative body with authority to investigate the subject
of interstate commerce and with power to call witnesses before
it, and to require the production of books, documents, and
papers relating to that subject, would go far towards defeating the object for which the people of the United States
placed commerce among the States under national control.
All must recognize the fact that the full information necessary as a basis of intelligent' legislation by Congress from
time to time upon the subject of interstate commerce cannot
be obtained, nor can the rules established for the regulation
of such commerce be efficiently enforced, otherwise than
through the instrumentality of an administrative body, representing the whole country, always watchful of the general
interests, and charged with the duty not only of obtaining
the required information, but of compelling by all lawful
methods obedience to such rules.
It is to be observed that independently of any question
concerning the nature of the matter under investigation by
the Commission - however legitimate or however vital to the
public interests the inquiry being conducted by that body the judgment below rests upon the broad ground that no
direct proceeding to compel the attendance of a witness before
the Commission, or to require him to answer questions put to
him, or to compel the production of books, documents, or
papers in his possession relating to the subject under examination, can be deemed a case or controversy of which, under the
Constitution, a court of the United States may take. cognizance, even if such proceeding be in form judicial. And the
theory upon which the judgment proceeded is applicable alike
to corporations and ,individuals, although by the established
doctrine of the courts a railroad corporation may, under legislative sanction and upon making compensation, appropriate
private property for the purposes of its right of way, because

INTERSTATE CO?4IKERCE COMMI.

v. BRIMSON.

475

Opinion of the Court.

and only because its road is a public highway established
primarily for the convenience of the people and to subserve
public objects, and, therefore, subject to governmental control.
Cherokee Nation v. Zansas Railway Co., 135 U. S. 641, 651.
What is a case or controversy to which, under the Constitution, the judicial power of the United States extends?
Referring to the clause of that instrument, which extends
the judicial power of the United States to all cases in law
and equity arising under the Constitution, the laws of the
United States, and treaties made or that shall be made under
their authoity, this court, speaking by Chief Justice Marshall,
has said: "This clause enables the judicial department to
receive jurisdiction to the full extent of the Constitution, laws,
and treaties of the United States when any question respecting them shall assume such a form that the judicial power is
capable of acting on it. That power is capable of acting only
when the subject is submitted to it by a party who asserts
his rights in the form prescribed by law. It then becomes a
case, and the Constitution declares that the judicial power
shall extend to all cases arising under the Constitution, laws,
and treaties of the United States." Osborn v. Bank of the
United8tates,9 Wheat. 738, 819. And in .furray v. Hoboken
Co., 18 How. 272, 28, Mr. Justice Curtis, after observing
that Congress cannot withdraw from judicial cognizance any
matter which, from its nature, is the subject of a suit at the
common law, or in equity, or admiralty, nor, on the other
hand, bring under judicial power a matter which, from its
nature, is not a subject for judicial determination, said: "At
the same time there are matters involving public rights
which may be presented in such form that the judicial power
is capable of acting on them, and which are susceptible of
judicial determination, but which Congress may or may not
bring within the cognizance of the courts of the United
States, as it may deem proper." So, in Smith v. Adams, 130
U. S.173, Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the court, said that
the terms "cases" and "controversies" in the Constitution
embraced "the claims or contentions of litigants brought before the courts for adjudication by regular proceedings estab-

OCTOBER TERM. 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

lished for the protection or enforcement of rights, or the
prevention, redress, or punishment of wrongs."
Testing the present proceeding by these principles, we are
of opinion that it is one that can properly be brought under
judicial cognizance.
We have before us an act of Congress authorizing the Interstate Commerce Commission to summon witnesses and to
require the production of books, papers, tariffs, contracts,
agreements, and documents relating to the matter under investigation. The constitutionality of this provision- assuming
it to be applicable to a matter that may be legally entrusted
to an administrative body for investigation -is, we repeat,
not disputed and is beyond dispute. Upon every one, therefore, who owes allegiance to the United States, or who is
within its jurigdiction, enjoying the protection that its government affords, rests an obligation to respect the national
will as thus expressed in conformity with the Constitution.
As every citizen is bound to obey the law and to yield obedience to the constituted authorities acting, within the law, this
power conferred upon the Commission imposes upon any one,
summoned by that body to appear and to testify, the duty
of appearing and testifying, and upon any one required to
produce such books, papers, tariffs, contracts, agreements, and
documents, the duty of produciig them, if the testimony
sought, and the books, papers, etc., called for, relate to the matter under investigation, if such matter is one which the Commission is legally entitled to investigate, and if the witness is
not excused, on some personal ground, from doing what the
Commission requires at his hands. These propositions seem to
be so clear and indisputable that any attempt to sustain them
by argument would be of no value in the discussion. Whether
the Commission is entitled to the evidence it seeks, and
whether the refusal of the witness to testify or to produce
books, papers, etc., in his possession, is or is not in violation
of his duty or in derogation of the rights of the United
States, seeking to execute a power expressly granted to Congress, are the distinct issues between that body and the witness. They are issues between the United States and those

0ITERSTATE COMMERCE COMM. v. BRIXS01T.

477

Opinion of the Court.

who dispute the validity of an act of Congress and seek to
obstruct its enforcement. And these issues, made in the form
prescribed by the act of Congress, are so presented that the
judicial power is capable of acting on them.
The question so presented is substantially, if not precisely,
that which would arise if the witness was proceeded against
by indictment under an act of Congress declaring it to be an
offence against the United States for any one to refuse to
testify before the Commission after being duly summoned,
or to produce books, papers, etc., in his possession upon notice
to do so, or imposing penalties for such refusal to testify or to
produce the required books, papers, and documents. A prosecution for such offence or a proceeding by information to
recover such penalties would have as its real and ultimate
object to compel obedience to the rightful orders of the
Commission, while it was exerting the powers given to it
by Congress. And such is the sole object of the present
direct, proceeding. The United States asserts its right; under
the Constitution and laws, to have these appellees answer the
questions propounded to them by the Commission, and to produce specified books, papers, etc., in their possession or under
their control. It insists that the evidence called for is material in the matter under investigation; that the subject of
investigation is within legislative cognizance, and may be
inquired of by any tribunal constituted by Congress for
that purpose. The appellees deny that any such rights exist
in the general government, or that they are under a legal
duty, even if such evidence be important or vital in the
enforcement of the Interstate Commerce Act, to do what is
required of them by the Commission. Thus has arisen a dispute involving rights or claims asserted by the respective
parties to it. And the power to determine it directly, and,
as between the parties, finally, must reside somewhere. It
cannot be that the general government, with all the power
conferred upon it by the people of the United States, is helpless in such an emergency, and is unable to provide some
method, judicial in form, and direct in it operation, for the
prompt and conclusive determination of this dispute.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

As the Circuit Court is competent under the law by which
it was ordained and established to take jurisdiction of the
parties, and as a case arises under the Constitution or laws
of the United States when its decision depends upon either,
why is not this proceeding judicial in form and instituted for
the determination of distinct issues between the parties, as
defined by formal pleadings, a case or controversy for judicial
cognizance, within the meaning of the Constitution? It must
be so regarded, unless, as is contended, Congress is without
power to provide any method for enforcing the statute or
compelling obedience to the lawful orders of the Commission,
except through criminal prosecutions or by civil actions to
recover penalties imposed-for non-compliance with such orders.
But no limitation of that kind upon the power of Congress to
regulate commerce among the States is justified either by the
letter or the spirit of the Constitution. Any such rule of constitutional interprdation, if applied to all the grants of power
made to Congress, would defeat the principal objects for which
the Constitution was ordained. As the issues are so presented
that the judicial power is capable of acting on them finally as
between the parties before the court, we cannot adjudge that
the mode prescribed for enforcing the lawful orders of the
Interstate Commission is not calculated to attain the object
for which Congress was given power to regulate interstate
commerce. It cannot be so declared unless the incompatibility between the Constitution and the act of Congress is
clear and strong. Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, 128. In
accomplishing the objects of a power granted to it, Congress
may employ any one or all the modes that are appropriate to
the end in view, taking care only that no mode employed is
inconsistent with the limitations of the Constitution.
We do not overlook these constitutional limitations which,
for the protection of personal rights, must necessarily attend
all investigations conducted under the authority of Congress.
Neither branch of the legislative department, still less any
merely administrative body, established by Congress, possesses,
or can be invested with, a general puwer of making inquiry
into the private affairs of the citizen. Eilbourn v. Thompsoi,

INTERSTATE COMMERCE CO00IM. v. BRIMSON.

479

Opinion of the Court.

103 U. S. 168, 190. We said in Boyd v. United States, 116
U. S. 616, 630,- and it cannot be too often repeated, - that
the principles that embody the essence of constitutional liberty and security forbid all invasions on the part of the government and its employis of the sanctity of a man's home,
and the privacies of his life. As said by Mr. Justice Field in
In re Pacifo Railway Commiission, 32 Fed. Rep. 241, 250,
"of all the rights of the citizen, few are of greater importance
or more essential to his peace and happiness than the right of
personal security, and that involves, not merely protection
of his person from assault, but exemption of his private affairs,
booI s, and papers from the inspection and scrutiny of others.
Without the enjoyment of this right, all others would lose
half their value."
It was said in argument that the twelfth section was in
derbgation of those fundamental guarantees of personal rights
that are recognized by the Constitution as inhering in the
freedom of the citizen. It is scarcely necessary to say that
the power given to Congress to regulate interstate commerce
does not carry with it any power to destroy or impair those
guarantees. This court has already spoken fully upon that
general subject in Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547.
We need not add anything to what has been there said.
Suffice it in the present case to say that as the Interstate
Commerce Commission, by petition in a Circuit Court of the
United States, seeks, upon grounds distinctly set forth, an
order tZ compel appellees to answer particular questions and
to produce certain books, papers, etc., in their possession, it
was open to each of them to contend before that court that
he was protected by the Constitution from making answer to
the questions propounded to him; or that he was not legally
bound to produce the books, papers, etc., ordered to be produced; or that neither the questions propounded nor the
books, papers, etc., called for relate to the particular matter
under investigation, nor to any matter which the Commission
is entitled under the Constitution or laws to investigate. These
issues being determined in their favor by the court below, the
petition of the Commission could have been dismissed upon
its merits.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

It may be- proper to state in this connection that after the
decision in Couinselman v. Hitokeock, the Interstate Commerce
Act was amended by an act approved February 11, 1893,
which provides "that no person shall be excused from attending and testifying, or from producing books, papers, tariffs,
contracts, agreements, and documents before the Interstate
Commerce Commission, or in obedience to the subpcena of
the Commission, whether such subpoena be signed or issued
by one or more commissioners, or in any cause or proceeding,
criminal or otherwise, based upon or growing out of any
alleged violation of the act of Congress, entitled 'An act to
regulate commerce,' approved February fourth, eighteen hundred and eighty-seven, or of any amendment thereof, on the
ground or for the reason that the testimony or evidence, documentary or otherwise, required of him may tend to criminate
him or subject him to a penalty or forfeiture.. Blit no person
shall be prosecuted or subjected to any penalty -or forfeiture
for or on account of any transaction, matter or thing concerning which he may testify, or produce evidence, documentary
or otherwise, before said Commission, or in obedience to its
subpoena, or the subpena of either of them, or in any such
case or proceeding: Provided, That no person so testifying
shall be exempt from prosecution and punishment for perjury
committed in so testifying. Any person who shall neglect or
refuse to attend and testify, or to answer any lawful inquiry,
or to produce books, papers, tariffs, contracts, agreements,
and documents, if in his power to do so, in obedience to the
subpcena or lawful requirement of the Commission, shall 'be
guilty of an offence, and upon conviction thereof by a court
of competent jurisdiction shall be punished by fine not less
than one hundred dollars nor more than five thousand dollars,
or by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by both
such fine and imprisonment." 27 Stat. 443, c. 83.. But that
act was not in force when this case was determined below.
Nor does it re.ch the question whether a proceeding like the
present one can be maintained in a Circuit Court of the
United States.
In the course of the argument at the bar our attention was

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMM. v. BRIMSON.

481

Opinion of the Court.

called to Hayburn'8 Case, 2 Dall. 409, and United States v.
Ferreira,13 How. 40, 46, as announcing principles not in harmony with the views we have expressed in this opinion.
HayburW'8 case was an application for a mandamus to be
directed to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Pennsylvania, commanding that court to proceed in
a petition by Hayburn to be put on the pension list of the
United States in conformity with an act of Congress, approved March 23, 1792, c. 11, 1 Stat. 243, which provided for
the settlement of the claims of widows and orphans barred
by limitations previously established, and to regulate claims
to invalid pensions. This court took the case under advisement, but as Congress provided in another way for the relief
of invalid pensioners, no decision was made. Nevertheless,
by a note to Hayburns case, we are informed of the views
expressed at the circuit by different members of this court in
relation to the act of 1792. They concurred in holding that
it was not in the power of Congress to assign to the courts of
the United States any duties except such as were properly
judicial, and to be performed in a judicial manner; and that
the duties assigned to the Circuit Courts were not of that
description, and were not contemplated by the act of Congress as of that character; and, consequently, that the act
could be considered as only appointing commissioners for the
purposes mentioned in it by official instead of personal descriptions, which positions the judges of the court were at
liberty to accept or decline.
In a note prepared by Chief Justice Taney, under the
direction of this court, and found in 13 How. 51, 52, an account
is given of Todd's case, which also involved the validity of
the act of 1792, so far as it imposed upon the Circuit Cburts
duties relating to pensions. And it is there stated that Chief
Justice Jay and Justice Cushing, upon further reflection, became satisfied that the power conferred by the act of 1792 on
the Circuit Court as a court could not be construed as giving
such power to the judges of the court as commissioners.
The same general principles were announced in Ferreira8
case, which arose under the treaty of 1819 between Spain and
YOL CLW-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States, and under certain acts of Congress passed
tocarry a particular article of that treaty into execution. The
case came,before this court upon appeal from a decision or
award made by the district judge, acting upon a special statute
authorizing him to receive and adjudicate certain claims. A
motion to dismiss the appeal for want of jurisdiction in this
court raised the question whether the district judge exercised
judicial power, strictly speaking, under the Constitution. The
motion to dismiss was sustained. Chief Justice Taney, referring to the statutes under which the district judge proceeded,
said: "It is manifest that this power to decide upon the validity of these claims is not conferred on them as a judicial function to be exercised in the ordinary forms of a court of justice.
For there is to be no suit; no parties in the legal acceptance
of the term are to be made; no process to issue; and no one
is authorized to appear in behalf of the United States, or to
summon witnesses in the case. The proceeding is altogether
exparte, and all that the judge is required to do is to receive
the claim when the party presents it, and to adjust it upon
such evidence as he may have before him, or be able himself
to obtain. But neither the evidence nor his award are to be
filed in the court in which he presides, nor recorded there;
but he is required to transmit both the decision and the evidence upon which he decided to the Secretary of the Treasury ; and the claim is to be paid if the Secretary thinks it just
and equitable, but n 6 t otherwise. It is to be a debt from the
United States upon the decision of the Secretary, but not upon
that of the judge. It is too evident for argument on the subject that such a tribunal is not a judicial one, and that the act
of Congress did not intend to make it one. The authority
conferred on the respective judges was nothing more than
that 6f a commissioner to adjust certain claims against the
United States; and the office of judges and their respective
jurisdictions are referred to in the law merely as a designation
of the persons to whom the authority is confided, and the
territorial limits to which it extends. The decision is not the
judgment of a court of justice. It is the award of a commission." 13 How. 40, 46, 47.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMM. v. BRIMSON.

S3

Opinion of the Court.

It thus appears that the act of 1792, above referred to, attempted to impose upon the courts of the United States duties
purely administrative in their character. So, also, the acts of
Congress involved in Fereirz's case conferred, no authority
upon the district judge to determine finally any questions of
a judicial nature, and, without requiring any petition to be
filed, and without empowering the district attorney to enter
an appearance for the United States, so as to make it a party
to the proceeding, or to authorize a judgment against it, gave
that officer the power only of adjusting, without the presence
of parties, certain claims, the allowance and payment of
which, after being so adjusted, were made to depend wholly
upon the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Some allusion should be made in this connection to Gordon
v. United States, 117 U. S.697, and in re Sanborn, 148 U. S.
222:
In Gordoe's case, the question was whether this court had
jurisdiction to review the action of the Court of Claims in
respect to a claim examined and allowed in the latter court
under an act of Congress, 12 Stat. 765, c. 92, % 5, 7,14,
which, among other things, provided that no money should
be paid out of the Treasury for any claim passed upon by the
Court of Claims, until after an appropriation therefor should
be estimated by the Secretary of the Treasury, and an appropriation to pay it be made by Congress. Under that act
neither the Court of Claims nor this court could do anything
more than certify their opinion to the Secretary of the Treasury, and it depended upon that officer, in the first place, to
decide whether he would include it in his estimates of private
claims, and if he decided in favor of the claimant, it rested
with Congress to determine whether it would or would not
make an appropriation for its payment. Neither the Court of
Claims nor this court could, by any process, enforce its judgment; and whether the claim was paid or not, did not depend
on the decision of either court, but upon the future action of
the Secretary of the Treasury and of Congress.
The appeal of Gordon was dismissed upon the ground that
Congress could not "authorize or require this court to express

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

an opinion on a case where its judicial power could not be
exercised, and where its judgment would not be final and
conclusive upon the rights of the parties, and process of execution awarded to carry it into effect." "The award of execution," said Chief Justice Taney, ".
is a part, and an essential
part, of every judgment, passed by a court exercising judicial
power. It is no judgment, in the legal sense of the term,
without it. Without such an award the judgment would be
inoperative and nugatory, leaving the aggrieved party without a remedy. It would be merely an opinion which would
remain a dead letter, and without any operation upon the
rights of the parties, unless Congress should at some future
time.sanction it, and pass a law authorizing the court to carry
its opinion into effect. Such is not the judicial power confided to this court in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction;
yet it is the whole power that the court is allowed to exercise
under this act of Congress." p. 702. See De Groot v. United
Statm, 5 Wall. 419.
In Sanborn's case, above cited, the same principles were
announced. That case arose under an act of Congress of
March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 505, c. 505, one section of which provided that "when any claim or matter may be pending in any
of the executive departments which involves controverted
questions of fact or law, the head of such department, with
the consent of the claimant, may transmit the same, with the
vouchers, papers, proofs, and documents pertaining thereto,
to said Court of Claims, and the same shall be there proceeded
in under such rules as the court may adopt. When the facts
and conclusions of law shall have been found, the court shall
report its findings to the department by which it was transmitted." § 12. This court dismissed an appeal from a finding
of the Court of Claims, under this act. Referring to the
cases of iayburn, Todd, Ferreira,and Gordon, above cited,
it observed: "Such a finding is not made obligatory on the
department to which it is reported - certainly not so in terms
-and not so, as we think, by any necessary implication. We
regard the function of the Court of Claims, in such a case,
as ancillary and advisory only. The finding or conclusion

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMM. v. BRIUNSON;

485

Opinion of the Court.

reached by that court is not enforceable by any process of
execution issuing from the court, nor is it made by the statute the.final and indisputable basis of action either by the
department or by Congress." p. 226.
The views we have expressed in the present case are not
inconsistent with anything said or decided in those cases.
They do not, in any manner, infringe upon the salutary doctrine that Congress (excluding the special cases provided for
in the Constitution, as, for instance, in section two of article
two of that instrument) may not impose upon the courts of the
United States any duties not strictly judicial. The duties
assigned to the Circuit Courts of the United States by the
twelfth section of the Interstate Commerce Act are judicial in
their nature. The inquiry-whether a witness before the Commission is bound to answer a particular question propounded
to him, or to produce books, papers, etc., in his possession and
called for by that body, is one that cannot be committed to a
subordinate administrative or executive tribunal for final determination. Such a body could not, under our system of government, and consistently with due process of law, be invested
with authority to compel obedience to its orders by a judgment of fine or imprisonment. Except in the particular instances enumerated in the Constitution, and considered in
Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204, and in Kibourn v. Tkom_ son, 103 U. S. 168, 190, of the exercise by either house of
Congress of its right to punish disorderly behavior upon the
part of its members, and to compel the attendance of witnessess, and the production of papers in election and impeachment cases, and in cases that may involve the existence of
those bodies, the power to impose fine or imprisonment in
order to compel the p6rformance of a legal duty imposed by
the United States, can only be exerted, under the law of the
land, by a competent judicial tribunal having, jurisdiction in
the premises. See TWhitcomb'8 Case, 120 Mass. 118, and
authorities there cited.
Without the aid of judicial process of some kind, the regulations that Congress may establish in respect to interstate
commerce cannot be adequately or efficiently enforced. One

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

mode, as already suggested,- the validity of which is not
questioned, - of compelling a witness to testify before the
Interstate Commerce Commission, to answer questions propounded to him relating to the matter under investigation and
which the law makes it his duty to answer, and to produce
books, papers, etc., is to make his refusal to appear and answer,
or to produce the documentary evidence called for, an offence
against the United- States punishable by fine or imprisonment.
A criminal prosecution of the witness under such a statute, it
is conceded, would be a case or controversy within the meaning of the Constitution, of which a court of the United States
could take jurisdiction. Another mode would be to proceed
by information to recover any penalty imposed by the statute.
A proceeding of that character, it is also conceded, would be
a case or controversy of which a court of the United States
could take cognizance. If, however, Congress, in its wisdom,
authorizes the Commission to bring before a court of the
United States for determination the issues between it and a
witness, that mode of enforcing the act of Congress, and of
compelling the witness to perform his duty, is said not to be
judicial, and is beyond the power of Congress. to prescribe.
We cannot assent to any view of the Constitution that concedes the power of Congress to accomplish, a named result,
indirectly, by particular forms of judicial procedure, but denies
its power to accomplish the same result, directly, and by a
different proceeding judicial in form. We could not do so
without denying to Congress the broad discietion with which
it is invested by the Constitution of employing all or any of
the means that are appropriate or plainly adapted to an end
whi6h it has unquestioned power to accomplish, namely, the
protection.of interstate commerce against improper burdens
and discriminations. Indeed, of all the modes that could be
constitutionally prescribed for the enforcement of the regulations embodied in the Interstate Commerce Act, that provided
by the 12th section is the one which, more than any other, will
protect the public against the devices of those who, taking
advantage of special circumstances, or by means of combinations too powerful to be resisted and overcome by individual

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMM. v. BRIMSON.

487

Opinion of the Court.

effort, would subject commerce among the States to unjust
and unreasonable burdens.
The present proceeding is not merely ancillary and advisory.
It is not, as in Gordom's case, one in which the United States
seeks from the Circuit Court of the United States an opinion
that "would remain a dead letter, and without any operation
upon the rights of the parties." The proceeding is one for
determining rights arising out of specified matters in dispute
that concern both the general public and the individual defendants. It is one in which a judgment may be rendered
that will be conclusive upon the parties until reversed by this
court. And that judgment may be enforced by the process
of the Circuit Court. Is it not clear that there are here
parties on each side of a dispute involving grave questions
of legal rights, that their respective positions are defined by
pleadings, and that the customary forms of judicial procedure
have been pursued ? The performance of the duty which,
.according to the contention of the government, rests upon
the defendants, cannot be directly enforced except by judicial
process. One of the functions of a court is to compel a party
to perform a duty which the law requires at his hands. If it
be adjudged that the defendants are, in law, obliged to do
what they have refused to do, that determination will not be
merely ancillary and advisory, but, in the words of Sanborns
case, will be a "final and indisputable basis of action," as
between the Commission and the defendants, and will furnish
a precedent in- all similar cases. It will be as much a judgment that .may be carried into effect by judicial process
as one for money, or for the recovery of property, or a judgment in mandamus commanding the performance of an act
or duty which the law requires to be performed, or a judgment prohibiting the doing of something which the law will
not sanction. It is none the less the judgment of a judicial
tribunal dealing with questions judicial in their nature, and
presented in the customary forms of judicial proceedings,
because its effect may be to aid an administrative or executive
body in the performance of duties legally imposed upon it by
Congress in execution of a power granted by the Constitution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of ths Court.

This view is illustrated by the case of Fong Ye Ting v.
United States, 149 U. S. 698, 728, which arose under the act
of May 5, 1892, c. 60, prohibiting the coming of Chinese
persons into the United States. That act provided for the
arrest and removal from the United States of any person of
Chinese descent unlawfully within this country, unless such
person shall establish, by affirmative proof, to the satisfaction
of a justice, judge, or commissioner of the United States
before whom he might be brought and tried, his lawful right
to remain in the United States. It also authorized the arrest
of such person by any customs official, collector of internal
revenue, or United States marshal, and taken before a United
States judge. This court said: "When, in the form prescribed by law, the executive officer, acting in behalf of the
United States, brings the Chinese laborer before the judge, in
order that he may be heard, and the facts upon which depends
his right to remain in the country be decided, a case is duly
submitted to the judicial power; for here are all the elements
of a civil case- a complainant, defendant, and a judgeactor, reus et judex. 3 Bl. Com. 25 ; Osborn v. Bank of the
United States, 9 Wheat. 738, 819. No formal complaint or
pleadings are required, and the want of them does not affect
the authority of the judge or the validity of the statute."
Another suggestion thrown out in argument against the
validity of the twelfth section of the Interstate Commerce
Act, in the particular adverted to, is that the defendants are
not accorded a right of trial by jury. If, as we have endeavored to show, this proceeding makes a case or controversy
within the judicial power of the United States, the issue
whether the defendants are under a duty to answer the questions propounded to them, and to produce the books, papers,
documents, etc., called for, is manifestly not one for the determination of a jury. The issue presented is not one 6f fact,
but of law exclusively. In such a case, the defendant is no
more entitled to a jury than is a defendant in a proceeding
by mandamus to compel him, as ai officer, to perform a ministerial duty. Of course, the question of punishing the
defendants for contempt could not arise before the Commis-

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMM. v. BRIMSON.

489

Opinion of the Court.

sion; for, in a judicial sense, there is no such thing as contempt of a subordinate administrative body. No question of
contempt could arise until the issue of law, in the Circuit
Court, is determined adversely to the defendants and they
refuse to obey, not the order of the commission, but the final
order of the court. And, in matters of contempt, a jury is
not required by "due process of law." From the very nature
of their institution, and that their lawful judgments may be
respected and enforced, the courts of the United States possess the power to punish for contempt. And this inherent
power is recognized and enforced by a statute expressly
authorizing such courts to punish contempts of their authority
when manifested by disobedience of their lawful writs, process,
orders, rules, decrees, or commands. Rev. Stat. § 725; 1 Stat.
83; 4 Stat. 487; United States v. Hudson, 7 Cranch, 32;
Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204, 227; Ex parte Robinson,
19 Wall. 505, 510 ; Eh parte Terry, 128 U. S.289, 302, 303 ;
Cartwrighs Case, 114 Mass. 230, 238. Surely it cannot be
supposed that the question of contempt of the authority of a
court of the United States, committed by a disobedience of
its orders, is triable, of right, by a jury.
We are of opinion that a judgment of the Circuit Court of
the United States determining the issues presented by the
petition of the Interstate Commerce Commission, and by the
answers of the appellees, will be a legitimate exertion of
judicial authority in a case or controversy to which, by the
Constitution, the judicial power of the United States extends.
A final order by that court dismissing the petition of the
Commission, or requiring the appellees to answer the questions
propounded to them, and to produce the books, papers, etc.,
called for, will be a determination of questions upon which
a court of the United States is capable of acting and which
may be enforced by judicial process. If there is any legal
reason why appellees should not be required to answer the
questions put to them, or to produce the books, papers, etc.,
demanded of them, their rights can be recognized and enforced
by the court below when it enters upon the consideration of
the merits of the questions presented by the petition.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

In view of the conclusion reached upon the only question
determined by the Circuit Court, what judgmert shall be here
entered? The chse was heard below upon the petition of the
Commission and the answers of the defendants. But no ruling was made in respect to the materiality of the evidence
sought to be obtained from the defendants. Passing by
every other question in the case, the Circuit Court, by its
judgment, struck down so much of the twelfth section as
authorized or required the courts to use their process in aid of
inquiries before the Commission. Under the circumstances,
we do not feel obliged to go further at this time than to adjudge, as we now do, that that section in the particular named
is constitutional, and to remand the cause that the court below may proceed with it upon the merits of the questions presented by the petition and the answers of the defendants and
make such determination thereof as may be consistent with
law. Any other course would, it might be apprehended, involve the exercise of original jurisdiction, and might possibly
work injustice to one or the other of the parties.
For the reasons stated the judgment is reversed,and the cause
is remdnded for further proceedings in conformity 'with
this eopinion.
31R. CHIEF JusTIcE FULLER, MR. JUSTICE

BREwER, and MR.

JusTIcE JACKSON dissented."
MR. JusrIoE FIELD was not present at the argument of this
case, and took no part in the consideration and decision of it.

I The dissenting opinion, by Mr. Justice Brewer, had not been Ifiled
when this volume went to press. It will-appear in Vol. 155.

