ESENWEIN v. COMMONWEALTH- -

279

Opinion of the Court.

ESENWEIN v. COMMONWEALTH
ESENWEIN.

Ex REL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 20.

Argued October 12, 13, 1944.-Decided May 21, 1945.

1. Relying upon a Nevada divorce degree, petitioner applied to a
Pennsylvania court for revocation of an order for the support of
his wife. The application was denied. Held that, upon the record,
the Pennsylvania court was warranted in finding that petitioner
did not have a bona fide domicil in Nevada when he obtained his
decree of divorce; and the Nevada divorce decree therefore was
not denied the full faith and credit required by the Constitution.
Williams v. North Carolina, antei p. 226. P. 280.
2. The claim that the Pennsylvania courts did not afford the petitioner an opportunity to be heard on the question of domicil is
without support in the record. P. 281.
348 Pa. 455, 35 A. 2d 335, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

322 U. S. 725, to review a judgment which

sustained the denial of petitioner's application for revocation of an order for the support of his wife.
Mr. Sidney J. Watts, with whom Mr. Fred C' Houston
was on the brief, for petitioner. Mr. J. Thomas Hoffman for respondent.
MR. SUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case involves the same problem as that which was
considered in Williams v. North Carolina, ante, p. 226.
There are minor variations of fact, but the considerations
which controlled the result in the Williams case govern
this.
Petitioner and respondent were married in Pennsylvania in 1899. They separated in 1919 but continued to
live there. The wife, respondent, obtained a support order in thePennsylvania courts which was modified from

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

time to time. Twice the petitioner sought a divorce in
Pennsylvania and failed. In 1941 he went to Nevada, arriving at Las Vegas on June 23rd. Six weeks later,
promptly within the minimum period allowed by Nevada
law, he there filed a suit for divorce. It was granted September 8th. Shortly thereafter, early in October, he left
Nevada and took up his residence in Cleveland, Ohio,
where he made his home. On February 1, 1943 petitioner
filed an application before the County Court for Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, for total relief from the
support order. He did so on the basis of the decision in
Williams v. North Carolina,317 U. S. 287, which had been
decided on December 21, 1942. Exemplified copies of the
Nevada proceedings, with other relevant evidence, were
submitted to the County Court, which, after argument,
denied the application. Its decision was affirmed by the
Superior Court on the ground that petitioner did not have
a bona fide domicil in Nevada when he obtained his decree of divorce. 153 Pa. Super. 69, 33 A. 2d 675. This
was sustained by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, 348
Pa. 455, 35 A. 2d 335, and we then granted certiorari. 322
U. S. 725.
Since, according to Pennsylvania law, a support order
does not survive divorce, Commonwealth v. Parker,59 Pa.
Super. 74; Commonwealth v. Kurniker, 96 Pa. Super. 553,
the efficacy of the Nevada divorce in Pennsylvania is the
decisive question in the case. The facts relating to domicil
are not essentially different from those set forth in Williams v. North Carolina, ante, p. 226, except that petitioner, instead of staying in an auto court, lived in a hotel
and did not return to Pennsylvania, his domiciliary state
before he came to Nevada, but went to Ohio.
The Full Faith and Credit Clause placed the Pennsylvania courts under duty to accord prima facie validity to
the Nevada decree. The burden is on the litigant who
would escape the operation of a judgment decreed in an-

ESENWEIN ,v. COMMONWEALTH.
279

,DOUGLAS,

J., concurring.

other State. Pennsylvania recognized that burden, but
its courts were warranted in finding tnat the respondent
sustained her burden of impeaching the foundation of the
Nevada decree on the jurisdictional prerequisite of bona
fide domicil. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court rightly
indicated that if merely the Nevada decree had been in
evidence, it was entitled to carry the day. But the Supreme Court found that on the entire showing there was
convincing countervailing evidence to disprove petitioner's intention to establish a domicil in Nevada. The
Pennsylvania courts have viewed their Constitutional
duty correctly. It is not for us to retry the facts, and we
cannot say that in reaching their conclusion the Pennsylvania courts did not have warrant in evidence and did not
fairly weigh the facts.
Petitioner makes a subsidiary claim which need not detain us long. He asserts that he had no notice that the
Nevada domicil was to be put in issue, and that therefore
it was unfair to decide that question on this record. He
points to the fact that for its decision the County Court
relied on the Pennsylvania denials of divorce as res judicata, whereas the appellate courts rested their decisions
on the issue of domicil. Since the record does not support the basis of this claim, we are relieved from considering its legal significance. The issue of domicil was
appropriately pleaded in defense, it was contested at the
trial, and before the Superior Court petitioner filed a supplemental brief on that issue. A claim of deprivation of
opportunity to be heard on the question of domicil before
the Pennsylvania courts is without merit.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, concurring.

I think it is important to keep in mind a basic difference
between the problem of marital capacity and the problem
of support.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
DOUGLAS,

J., concurring.

325 U. S.

We held in Williams v. North Carolina,317 U. S. 287,
that a Nevada divorce decree granted to a spouse domiciled
there was entitled to full faith and credit in North Carolina. That case involved the question of marital capacity.
The spouse who obtained the Nevada decree was being
prosecuted in North Carolina for living with the one
woman whom Nevada recognized as his lawful wife.
Quite different considerations would have been presented
if North Carolina had merely sought to compel the husband to support his deserted wife and children, whether
the Nevada decree had made no provision for the support
of the former wife and children or had provided an amount
deemed insufficient by North Carolina. In other words,
it is not apparent that the spouse who obtained the decree can defeat an action for maintenance or support in
another State by showing that he was domiciled in the
State which awaided him the divorce decree. It is one
thing if the spouse from whom the decree of divorce is
obtained appears or is personally served. See Yarborough
v. Yarborough, 290 U. S. 202; Davis v. Davis, 305 U. S. 32.
But I am not convinced that in absence of an appearance
or personal service the decree need be given full faith and
credit when it comes to maintenance or support of the
other spouse or the children. See Pennoyer v. Neff, 95
U. S. 714. The problem under the full faith and credit
clause is to accommodate as fully as possible the conflicting interests of the two States. See Magnolia Petroleum
Co. v. Hunt, 320 U. S. 430, 447 (dissenting opinion). The
question of marital capacity will often raise an irreconcilable conflict between the policies of the two States. See
Williams v. North Carolina,supra. One must give way
in the larger interest of the federal union. But the same
conflict is not necessarily present when it comes to maintenance or support. The State where the deserted wife
is domiciled has a deep concern in the welfare of the family
deserted by the head of the household. If he is required
to support his former wife, he is'not made a bigamist and

COMM'R v. ESTATE OF BEDFORD.
279

283

Syllabus.

the offspring of his second marriage are not bastardized.
In that view Pennsylvania in this case might refuse to
alter its former order of support or might enlarge it, even
though Nevada in which the other spouse was domiciled
and obtained his divorce made a different provision for
support or none at all. See Radin, The Authenticated
Full Faith and Credit Clause, 39 Ill. L. Rev. 1, 28.
MR. JUSTICE BLACx joins in this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE, concurring.

In accordance with the views which I have expressed
in Williams v. North Carolina,ante, p. 226, I do not think
full faith and credit have been given by the Pennsylvania
courts to the Nevada decree in this case. But upon the
basis of the Court's decision in that case, made applicable
also in this one, I concur in the result. In doing so, however, it is appropriate to indicate my agreement with the
views expressed in the concurring opinion of MR. JUSTICE
DOUGLAS that the jurisdictional foundation for a decree in
one state capable of foreclosing an action for maintenance
or support in another may be different from that required
to alter marital status with extratevitorial effect.
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE. v.
ESTATE OF BEDFORD ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT. t

No. 710. Argued March 29, 1945.-Decided May 21, 1945.

1. A petition for a writ of certiorari to review a decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit was filed within
three months after "entry" of the "judgment," as required by ยง 8
of the Act of February 13, 1925, when filed within three months
after the date of that court's "Order for Mandate," though more
than three months after the date of the "Opinion." P. 287.
2. A distribution of cash out of earnings and profits of a corporation,

pursuant to a recapitalization which was a reorganization as de-

