OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

WILLIAMS

ET

325 U. S.

AL. v. NORTH CAROLINA.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 84.

Argued October 13, 1944.-Decided May 21, 1945.

1. A man and a woman, domiciled in North Carolina, left their
spouses in North Carolina, obtained decrees of divorce in Nevada,
married and returned to North Carolina to live. Prosecuted in
North Carolina for bigamous cohabitation, they pleaded the Nevada
divorce decrees in defense but were convicted. Held that, upon
the record, the judgments of conviction were not invalid as denying
the Nevada divorce decrees the full faith and credit required by
Art. IV, § 1 of the Constitution. Pp. 234, 236.
2. A decree of divorce rendered in one State may be collaterally impeached in another by proof that the court which rendered the decree
had no jurisdiction, even though the record of the proceedings in that
court purports to show jurisdiction. P. 229.
3. Under our system of law, judicial power to grant a divorce--jurisdiction, strictly speaking-is founded on domicil. P. 229.
4. As to the truth or existence of a fact, like that of domicil, upon
which depends the power to exert judicial authority, a State not a
party to the exertion of such judicial authority in another State but
seriously affected by it has a right, when asserting its own unquestioned authority, to ascertain the truth or existence of that crucial
fact. P. 230.
5. Punishment of a person for an act as a crime when ignorant of the
facts making it so, does not involve a denial of due process. P. 238.
6. The prior decision of this Court in this case, Williams v. North
Carolina, 317 U. S. 287, did not foreclose a second trial upon the
issue of domicil. P. 239.
224 N. C. 183, 29 S. E. 2d 744, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

322 U. S. 725, to review a judgment affirm-

ing judgments of conviction of bigamous cohabitation.
Mr. W. H. Strickland for petitioners.
Hughes J. Rhodes, Assistant Attorney General of North
Carolina, with whom HarryMcMullan, Attorney General,
and Mr. J. E. Tucker were on the brief, for respondent.

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case is here to review judgments of the Supreme
Court of North Carolina, affirming convictions for bigamous cohabitation,, assailed on the ground that full faith
and credit, as required by the Constitution of the United
States, was not accorded divorces decreed by one of the
courts of Nevada. Williams v. North Carolina,317 U. S.
287, decided an earlier aspect of the controversy. It was
there held that a divorce granted by Nevada, on a finding
that one spouse was domiciled in Nevada, must be respected in North Carolina, where Nevada's finding of
domicil was not questioned, though the other spouse had
neither appeared nor been served with process in Nevada
and though recognition of such a divorce offended the
policy of North Carolina. The record then before us did
not present the question whether North Carolina had the
power "to refuse full faith and credit to Nevada divorce
decrees because, contrary to the findings of the Nevada
court, North Carolina finds that no bona fide domicil was
acquired in Nevada." Williams v. North Carolina,supra,
at 302. This is the precise issue which has emerged after
retrial of the cause following our reversal. Its obvious
importance brought the case here. 322 U. S. 725.
The implications of the Full Faith and Credit Clause,
Article IV, § 1 of the Constitution,2 first received the sharp
' The prosecution was under § 14-183 of the General Statutes of
North Carolina (1943); "If any person, being married, shall contract
a marriage with any other person outside of this state, which marriage would be punishable as bigamous if contracted within this state,
and shall thereafter cohabit with such person in this state, he shall
be guilty of a felony and shall be punished as in cases of bigamy.
Nothing contained in this section shall extend . . . to any person who
at the time of such second marriage shall have been lawfully divorced
from the bond of the first marriage . . ."
2 "Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to the public
Acts, Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other State."

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

analysis of this Court in Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall.
457. Theretofore, uncritical notions about the scope of
that Clause had been expressed in the early case of Mills
v. Duryee, 7 Cranch 481. The "doctrine" of that case, as
restated in another early case, was that "the judgment of a
state court should have the same credit, validity, and effect,
in every other court in the United States, which it had in
the state where it was pronounced." Hampton v. M'Connel, 3 Wheat. 234, 235. This utterance, when put to the
test, as it was in Thompson v. Whitman, supra,was found
to be too loose. Thompson v.Whitman made it clear that
the doctrine of Mills v. Duryee comes into operation only
when, in the language of Kent, "the jurisdiction of the
court in another state is not impeached, either as to the
subject matter or the person." Only then is "the record
of the judgment . . . entitled to full faith and credit."
1 Kent, Commentaries (2d ed., 1832) * 261 n. b. The essence of the matter was thus put in what Thompson v.
Whitman adopted from Story: "'The Constitution did
not mean to confer [upon the States] a new power or
jurisdiction, but simply to regulate the effect of the acknowledged jurisdiction over persons and things within
their territory.' "' 18 Wall. 457, 462. In short, the Full
Faith and Credit Clause puts the Constitution behind a
judgment instead of the too fluid, ill-defined concept of
"comity." ,
3 It
is interesting to note that this more critical analysis by Mr.
Justice Story of the nature of the Full Faith and Credit Clause first
appeared in 1833, twenty years after his loose characterization in
Mills v. Duryee, supra 3 Story, Commentaries on the Constitution
(1st ed., 1833) p. 183.
4 "There
is scarcely any doctrine of the law which, so'far as
respects formal and exact statement, is 'in a more unreduced and
uncertain condition than that which relates to the question what force
and effect should be given by the courts of one nation to the judgments rendered by the courts of another nation." James C. Carter
and Elihu Root, Appellants' brief, p. 49, in Hilton v. Quyot, 159 U. S.

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

229

Opinion of the Court.

But the Clause does not make a sister-State judgment
a judgment in another State. The proposal to do so was
rejected by the Philadelphia Convention. 2
Farrand, The
Records of the Federal Convention of 1787, 447-48.' "To
give it the force of a judgment in another state, it must
be made a judgment there." M'Elmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Pet.
312, 325. It can be made a judgment there only if the
court purporting to render the original judgment had
power to render such a judgment. A judgment in one
State is conclusive upon the merits in every other State,
but only if the court of the first State had power to pass
on the merits-had jurisdiction, that is, to render the
judgment.
"It is too late now to deny the right collaterally to impeach a decree of divorce made in another State, by proof
that the court had no jurisdiction, even when the record
purports to show jurisdiction . . ." It was "too late" more
than forty years ago. German Savings Society v. Dormitzer, 192 U. S.125, 128.
Under our system of law, judicial power to grant a
divorce--jurisdiction, strictly speaking-is founded on
domicil. Bell v. Bell, 181 U. S.175; Andrews v. Andrews,
188 U. S. 14. The framers of the Constitution were
familiar with this jurisdictional prerequisite, and since
1789 neither this Court nor any other court in the Englishspeaking world has questioned it. Domicil implies a
nexus between person and place of such permanence as to
control the creation of legal relations and responsibilities of
the utmost significance. The domicil of one spouse within
a State gives power to that State, we have held, to dis113. See, as to "comity," Loucks v. Standard Oil Co., 224 N. Y.
99, 120 N. E. 198.
5 The reach of Congressional power given by Art. IV, § 1 is not
before us. See Jackson, Full Faith and Credit-the Lawyer's Clause
of the Constitution (1945) 45 Col. L. Rev. 1, 21-24; Cook, Logical
and Legal Bases of Conflict of Laws (1942) 98 et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

solve a marriage wheresoever contracted. In view of Williams v. North Carolina,supra, the jurisdictional requirement of domicil is freed from confusing refinements about
"matrimonial domicil," see Davis v. Davis, 305 U. S. 32,
41, and the like. Divorce, like marriage, is of concern not
merely to the immediate parties. It affects personal rights
of the deepest significance. It also touches basic interests of society. Since divorce, like marriage, creates a
new status, every consideration of policy makes it desirable
that the effect should be the same wherever the question
arises.
It is one thing to reopen an issue that has been settled
after appropriate opportunity to present their contentions
has been afforded to all who had an interest in its adjudication. This applies also to jurisdictional questions.
After a contest these cannot be relitigated as between the
parties. Forsyth v. Hammond, 166 U.S. 506, 517; Chicago
Life Ins. Co. v. Cherry, 244 U. S. 25, 30; Davis v. Davis,
supra. But those not parties to a litigation ought not to
be foreclosed by the interested actions of others; especially
not a State which is concerned with the vindication of its
own social policy and has no means, certainly no effective
means, to protect that interest against the selfish action
of those outside its borders. The State of domiciliary
origin should not be bound by an unfounded, even if not
collusive, recital in the record of a court of another State.
As to the truth or existence of a fact, like that of domicil,
upon which depends the power to exert judicial authority,
a State not a party to the exertion of such judicial authority in another State but seriously affected by it has
a right, when asserting its own unquestioned authority, to
ascertain the truth or existence of that crucial fact.'
1 We have not here a situation where a State disregards the adjudication of another State on the issue of domicil squarely litigated in a
truly adversary proceeding.

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

Opinion of the Court.

These considerations of policy are equally applicable
whether power was assumed by the c6urt of the first State
or claimed after inquiry. This may lead, no doubt, to conflicting determinations of what judicial power is founded
upon. Such conflict is inherent in the practical application of the concept of domicil in the contekt of our federal
system.7 See Worcester County Co. v. Riley, 302 U. S.
292; Texas v. Florida,306 U. S. 398; District of. Columbia
v. Murphy, 314 U. S. 441. What was said in Worcester
County Co. v. Riley, supra, is pertinent here. "Neither
the Fourteenth Amendment nor the full faith and credit
clause requires uniformity in the decisions of the .courts of
different states as to the place of domicil, where the exertion of state power is dependent upon domicil within its
boundaries." 302 U. S. 292, 299. If a finding by the court
of one State that domicil in another State has been abandoned were conclusive upon the old domiciliary'State, the
policy of each State in matters of most intimate concern
..icould be subverted by the policy of every other State.
This Court has long ago denied the existence of such destructive po'wer. The issue has a far reach. For domicil
is the foundation of probate jurisdiction precisely as it is
that of divorce. The ruling in Tilt v. Kelsey, 207 U. S.
43, regarding the probate of a will, is equally applicable
to a sister-State divorce decree: "the full faith and credit
due to the proceedings of the New Jersey court do not
require that the courts of New York shall be bound by its
adjudication on the question of domicil. On the contrary,
it is open to the courts of any State in the trial of a collateral issue to determine upon the evidence produced the
true domicil of the deceased." 207 U. S. 43, 53.
7 Since an appeal to the Full Faith and Credit Clause raises questions arising under the Constitution of the United States, the proper
criteria for ascertaining domicil, should these be in dispute, become
matters for federal determination. See Hinderlider v. La Plata Co.,
304 U. S. 92, 110.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Although it is now settled that a suit for divorce is not
an ordinary adversary proceeding, it does not promote
analysis, as was recently pointed out, to label divorce proceedings as actions in rem. Williams v. North Carolina,
supra,at 297. But insofar as a divorce decree partakes of
some of the characteristics of a decree in rem, it is misleading to say that all the world is party to a proceeding in rem.
See Brigham v. Fayerweather, 140 Mass. 411, 413, 5 N. E.
265, quoted in Tilt v. Kelsey, supra, at 52. All the world
is not party to a divorce proceeding. What is true is that
all the world need not be present before a court granting
the decree and yet it must be respected by the other fortyseven States provided-and it is a big proviso-the conditions for the exercise of power by the divorce-decreeing
court are validly established whenever that judgment is
elsewhere called into question. In short, the decree of
divorce is a conclusive adjudication of everything except
the jurisdictional facts upon which it is founded, and
domicil is a jurisdictional fact. To permit the necessary
finding of domicil by one State to foreclose all States in
the protection of their social institutions- would be
intolerable.
But to endow each State with controlling authority to
nullify the power of a sister State to grant a divorce based
upon a finding that one spouse had acquired a new domicil
within the divorcing State would, in the proper functioning of our federal systeff, be equally indefensible. No
State court can assume comprehensive attention to the
various and potentially eonflicting interests that several
States may have in the institutional aspects of marriage.
The necessary accommodation between the right of one
State to safeguard its interest in the family relation of its
own people and the power of another State to grant
divorces can be left to neither State.
The problem is to reconcile the reciprocal respect to be
accorded by the members of the Union to their adjudica-

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

233

Opinion of the Court.

tions with due regard for another most important aspect
of our federalism whereby "the domestic relations of husband and wife . . . were matters reserved to the States,"
Popovici v. Agler, 280 U. S.379, 383-84, and do not belong
to the United States. In re Burrus, 136"U. S.586, 593-94.
The rights that belong to all the States and the obligations which membership in the Union imposes upon all,
are made effective because this Court is open to consider
claims, such as this case presents, that the courts of one
State have not given the full faith and credit to the judgment of a sister State that is required by Art. IV, § 1 of
the Constitution.
But the discharge of this duty does not make of this
Court a-court of probate and divorce. Neither a rational
system of law nor hard practicality calls for our independent determination, in reviewing the judgment of a
State court, of that rather elusive relation between person
and place which establishes domicil. "It is not for us to
retry the facts," as was held in a case in which, like the
present, the jurisdiction underlying a sister-State .judgment was dependent on domicil. Burbank v. Ernst, 232
U. S.162, 164. The challenged judgment must, however,
satisfy our scrutiny that the reciprocal duty of respect
owed by the States to one another's adjudications has
been fairly discharged, and has not been evaded under the
guise of finding an absence of domicil and therefore a want
of power in the court rendering the judgment.
What is immediately before us is the judgment of the
Supreme Court of North Carolina. We have authorityto upset it only if there is want of foundation for the conclusion that that Court reached. The conclusion it
reached turns on its finding that the spouses who obtained
the Nevada decrees were-not domiciled there. The fact
that the Nevada court found that they were domiciled
there is entitled to respect, and more. The burden of
undermining the verity which the Nevada decrees import

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

rests heavily upon the assailant. But simply because the
Nevada court found that it had power to award a divorce
decree cannot, we have seen, foreclose reexamination by
another State. Otherwise, as was pointed out long ago, a
court's record woUld establish its power and the power
would be proved by the record. Such circular reasoning
would give one State a control over all the other States
which the Full Faith and Credit Clause certainly did not
confer. Thompson v. Whitman, supra. If this Court
finds that proper weight was accorded to the claims of
power by the court of one State in rendering a judgment
the validity of which is pleaded in defense in another
State, that the burden of overcoming such respect by disproof of the substratum of fact---here domicil--on which
such power alone can rest was properly charged against
ihe party challenging the legitimacy of the judgment, that
such issue of fact was left for fair determination by appropriate procedure, and that'a finding adverse to the neces-sary foundation for any valid sister-State judgment was
amply supported in evidence, we cannot upset the judgment before us. And we cannot do so even if we also
found in the record of the court of original judgment warrant for its finding that it had jurisdiction. If it is a
matter turning on local law, great deference is owed by
the courts of one State-to what a court of another State
has done., See Michigan Trust Co. v. Ferry, 228 U. S.
346. But when we are dealing as here with an historic
notion common to all English-speaking courts, that of
domicil, we should not find a want of deference to a sister
State on the part of a court of another State which finds
an absence of domicil, where such a conclusion is warranted by the record.
When this case was first here, North Carolina did not
challenge the finding of the Nevada court that petitioners
had acquired domicils in Nevada. For her challenge of
t4eNevada decrees, Norith Carolina rested on Haddock v.

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

Opinion of the Court.

Haddock, 201 U. S. 562. Upon retrial, however, the existence of domicil in Nevada became the decisive issue.
The judgments of conviction now under review bring
before us a record which may be fairly summarized by saying that the petitioners left North Carolina for the purpose of getting divorces from their respective spouses in
Nevada and as soon as each had done so and married one
another they left Nevada and returned to North Carolina
to live there together as man and wife. Against the
charge of bigamous cohabitation under § 14-183 of the
North Carolina General Statutes, petitioners stood on
their Nevada divorces and offered exemplified copies of
the Nevada proceedings.' The trial judge charged that
the State had the burden of proving beyond a reasonable
doubt that (1) each petitioner was lawfully married to
one person; (2) thereafter each petitioner contracted a
second marriage with another person outside North Carolina; (3) the spouses of petitioners were living at the
time of this second marriage; (4) petitioners cohabited
with one another in North Carolina after the second marriage. The burden, it was charged, then devolved upon
petitioners "to satisfy the trial jury, not beyond a reasonable doubt nor by the greater weight of the evidence, but
simply to satisfy" the jury from all the evidence, that
petitioners were domiciled in Nevada at the time they
obtained their divorces. The court further charged that
"the recitation" of bona fide domicil in the Nevada decree
8As to petitioner Hendrix these included the pleadings, evidence
and decree. As to petitioner Williams essentially the same evidence
with respect to his domicil is ih the record from witnesses in this case.
It shows when Williams left North Carolina, when he arrived in
Nevada, the prompt filing of his divorce suit (Nevada requires six
weeks' residence prior to filing a suit for divorce), marriage to petitioner Hendrix immediately after petitioners were divorced, and his
prompt return to North Carolina. All of this bears on abandonment
of the North Carolina domicil and the intent to remain indefinitely
elsewhere.

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

was "prima facie evidence" sufficient to warrant a finding
of domicil in Nevada but not compelling "such an inference." If the jury found, as they were told, that petitioners had domicils in North Carolina and went to Nevada
"simply and solely for the purpose of obtaining" divorces,
intending to return to North Carolina on obtaining them,
they never lost their North Carolina domicils nor acquired
new domicils in Nevada. Domicil, the jury was instructed, was that place where a person "has voluntarily
fixed his abode . . . not for a mere special or temporary

purpose, but with a present intention of making it his
home, either permanently or for an indefinite or unlimited
length of time."
The scales of justice must not be unfairly weighted by a
State when full faith and credit is claimed for a sisterState judgment. But North Carolina has not so dealt
with the Nevada decrees. She has not raised unfair barriers to their recognition. North Carolina did not fail in
appreciation or application of federal standards of full
faith and credit. Appropriate weight was given to the
finding of domicil in the Nevada decrees, and that finding
was allowed to be overturned only by relevant standards
of proof. There is nothing to suggest that the issue was
not fairly submitted to the jury and that it was not fairly
assessed on cogent evidence.
State courts cannot avoid review by this Court of their
disposition of a constitutional claim by casting it in the
form of an unreviewable finding of fact. ,Norris v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 587, 590. This record is barren of such
attempted evasion. What it shows is that petitioners,
long-time residents of North Carolina, came to Nevada,
where they stayed in an auto-court for -transients, filed
suits for divorce-as soon as the Nevada law permitted, married one another as soon as the divorces were obtained,
and promptly returned to North Carolina..to live. It cannot reasonably be claimed that one set of inferences rather

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

Opinion of the Court.

than another regarding the acquisition by petitioners of
new domicils in Nevada could not be drawn from the circumstances attending their Nevada divorces. It would be
highly unreasonable to assert that a jury could not reasonably find that the evidence demonstrated that petitioners
went to Nevada solely for the purpose of obtaining a divorce and intended all along to return to North Carolina.
Such an intention, the trial court properly charged, would
preclude acquisition of domicils in Nevada. See Williamson v. Osenton, 232 U. S. 619. And so we cannot gay that
North Carolina was not entitled to draw the inference that
petitioners never abandoned their domicils in North Carolina, particularly since we could not conscientiously prefer, were it our business to do so, the contrary finding of
the Nevada court.
If a State cannot foreclose, on review here, all the other
States by its finding that one spouse is domiciled within its
bounds, persons may, no doubt, place themselves in situations that create unhappy consequences for them. This
is merely one of those untoward results inevitable in a federal system in which regulation of domestic relations has
.been left with the States and not given to the national
authority. But the occasional disregard by any one State
of the reciprocal obligations of the forty-eight States to
respect the constitutional power of each to deal with
domestic relations of those domiciled within its borders is
hardly an argument for allowing one State to deprive the
other forty-seven States of their constitutional rights.
Relevant statistics happily do not justify lurid forebodings that parents without number will disregard the fate
of their offspring by being unmindful of the status of dignity to which they are entitled. But, in any event, to the
extent that some one State may, for considerations of its
own, improperly intrude into domestic relations subject to
the authority of the other States, it suffices to suggest that
any such indifference by a State to the bond of the Union
should be discouraged, not encouraged.

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

In seeking a decree of divorce outside the State in which
he has theretofore maintained his marriage, a person is
necessarily involved in the legal situation created by our
federal system whereby one State cart grant a divorce of
yalidity in other States only if the applicant has a bona
Ade-domicil in the'State of the court purporting to dissolve
a prior legal marriage. The petitioners therefore assumed
he risk that this Court would- find that North Carolina
-justifiably concluded that they had not been domiciled in
Nevada. Since the divorces which they sought and received in Nevada had no legal validity in North Carolina
and their North Carolina spouses were still alive, they subjected themselves to prosecution for bigamous cohabitation under North.-Carolina law. The legitimate finding
of the North Catilina Supreme Court that the petitioners
were not in truth domiciled in Nevada was not a contingency against which the petitioners were protected by
anything in the Constitution of the United States. A
man's fate often depends, as for instance in the enforcement of the Sherman Law, on far greater risks that he will
estimate "rightly, that is, as the jury subsequently estimates it, some matter of degree. If his judgment is wrong,
not only may he incur a fine or a short imprisonment, as
here; he-may incur the penalty of death." Nash v. United
States, 229 U.S.A373, 377. The objection that punishment
of a person for a act as a crime when ignorant of the facts
making it so,vin-volves a denial of due process of law has
more than once b-en overruled. In vindicating its public
policy and particularly one so important as that bearing
upon the integrity of family life, a State in punishing particular acts may provide that "he who ghall do them shall
do them at his peril and will not be heard to plead in defense good faith- or ignorance." United States v. Balint,
258 U. S. 250, 252, quoting Shevlin-Carpenter Co. v.
Minnesota, 218 U. S.57, 69-70. Mistaken notions about
one's legal rights are not sufficient to bar prosecution for
crime.

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

MURPHY, J.,

concurring.

We conclude that North Carolina was not required to
yield her State policy because a Nevada court found that
petitioners were domiciled in Nevada when it granted
them decrees of divorce. North Carolina was entitled to
find, as she did, that they did not acquire domicils in Nevada and that the Nevada court was therefore without
power to liberate the petitioners from amenability to the
laws of North Carolina governing domestic relations.
And, as was said in connection with another aspect of the
Full Faith and Credit Clause, our conclusion "is not a mat,
ter to arouse the susceptibilities of the'States, all of which
are equally concerned in the question and equally on both
sides." Fauntleroy v. Lum, 210 U. S. 230, 238.
As for the suggestion that Williams v. North Carolina,

supra, foreclosed the Supreme Court of North Carolina
from ordering a second trial upon the issue of domicil, it
suffices to refer to our opinion in the earlier case.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, concurring.

While I join in the opinion of the Court, certain considerations compel me to state more fully my views on the
important issues presented by this case.
The State of Nevada has unquestioned authority, consistent with procedural due process, to grant divorces on
whatevbr basis it sees fit to all who meet its statutory
requirements. It is entitled, moreover, to give to its
divorce decrees absolute and binding finality within the
confines of its borders.
But if Nevada's divorcedecrees are to be accorded full
faith and credit in the courts of hersister states it is essential that Nevada have proper jundiction over the divorce
proceedings. This means that at least one of the parties
to each ex parte proceeding must have a bona fide domicil
within Nevada for whatever length of time Nevada may
prescribe.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MURPHY, J., concurring.

325 U. S.

This elementary principle has been reiterated by this
Court many times. In Bell v. Bell, 181 U. S. 175, this
Court held that "because neither party had a domicil in
Pennsylvania" the Pennsylvania court had no jurisdiction
to grant a divorce and its decree "was entitled to no faith
and credit in New York or in any other state." The same
rule was applied in the companion case of Streitwolf v.
Streitwolf, 181 U.- S. 179. Referring to these two prior
cases as holding that "domicil was in any event the inherent element upon which the jurisdiction must rest," the
Court in Andrews v. Andrews, 188 U. S. 14, repeated that
bona fide domicil in a state is "essential to give jurisdiction
to the courts of such state to render a decree of divorce
which would have extra-territorial effect." The Andrews
case made it clear, moreover, that this requirement of
domicil is not merely a matter of state law. It was
stated specifically that "without reference to the statute
of South Dakota and in any event" domicil in South
Dakota was necessary. 188 U. S. at 41. All of the
opinions in Haddock v. Haddock, 201 U. S. 562, recognized this principle, with Mr. Justice Brown's dissenting opinion stating that "the courts of one state
may not grant a divorce against an absent defendant to
any person who has not acquired a bona fide domicil in
that state." Finally, in Williams v. North Carolina,317
U. S. 287, the Court acknowledged that the plaintiff's
domicil in a state "is recognized in the Haddock case and
elsewhere (Beale, Conflict of Laws, § 110.1) as essential in
order to give the court jurisdiction which will entitle the
divorce decree to extraterritorial effect, at least when the
defen4ant has neither been personally served nor entered
an appearance." See also Atherton v. Atherton, 181 U. S.
155.
The jury has here found that the'petitioner's alleged
domicil in Nevada-was not a bona fide one, which in common and legal parlance means that it was acquired fraud-

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

MURPHY,

J., concurring.

ulently, deceitfully or in bad faith. This means, in other
words, that the jury found that the petitioners' residence
in Nevada for six weeks was not iccompanied by a bona
fide intention to make Nevada their home and to remain
there permanently or at least for an indefinite time, as
required even by Nevada law. Lamb v. Lamb, 57 Nev.
421, 430, 65 P. 2d 872. This conclusion is supported by
overwhelming evidence satisfying whatever standard of
proof may be propounded. Under these circumstances
there is no reason to doubt the efficacy of.jury trials in
relation to the question of domicil or to speculate as to
whether another jury might have reached a different
verdict on the same set of facts.
Thus the court below properly concluded that Nevada
was without jurisdiction go as to give extraterritorial
validity to the divorce decrees and that North Carolina
was not compelled by the Constitution to give full faith
and credit to the Nevada decrees. North Carolina was
free to consider the original marriages still in effect, the
Nevada divorces to be invalid, and the Nevada marriage
to be bigamous, thus giving the Nevada marriage the same
force and .effect that Nevada presumably would have
given it had Nevada considered the original marriages
still outstanding. Cf. State v. Zichfeld, 23 Nev. 304,
46 P. 802.
By being domiciled and living in North Carolina, petitioners secured all the benefits and advantages of its government and participated in its social and economic life.
As long as petitioners and their respective spouses lived
there and retained that domicil, North Carolina had the
exclusive right to regulate the dissolution of their marriage relationships. However harsh and unjust North
Carolina's divorce laws may be thought to be, petitioners
were bound to obey them while retaining residential and
domiciliary ties in that state.

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MURPHY,

J., concurring.

325 U. S.

No justifiable purpose is served by imparting constitutional sanctity to the efforts of petitioners to establish a
false and fictitious domicil in Nevada. Such a result
would only tend to promote wholesale disregard of North
Carolina's divorce laws by its citizens, thus putting an end
to "the existence of all efficacious power on the subject of
divorce." Andrews v. Andrews, supra, 32. Certainly no
policy of Nevada dictates lending the full faith and credit
clause to protect actions grounded in deceit. Nevada has
a recognizable interest in granting only two types of ex
parte divorces: (a) those effective solely within the borders of Nevada, and (b) those effective everywhere on
the ground that at least one of the parties had a bona
fide domicil in the state at the time the decree was granted.
Neither type of divorce is involved here. And Nevada has
no interest that we can respect in issuing divorce decrees
with extraterritorial effect to those who are domiciled elsewhere and who secure sham domicils in Nevada solely for
divorce purposes.
There are no startling or dangerous implications in the
judgment reached by the Court in this case. All of the
uncontested divorces that have ever been. granted in the
forty-eight states are as secure today as they were yesterday or as they were before our previous decision in
this case. Those based upon fraudulent domicils are now
and always have been subject to later reexamination with
possible serious consequences.
Whatever embarrassment or inconvenience resulting to
those who have made property settlements, contracted
new marriages or otherwise acted in reliance upon divorce
decrees obtained under conditions found to exist in this
case is not insurmountable. The states have adequate
power, if they desire to exercise it, to enact legislation providing for means of validating any such property settlements or marriages or of relieving persons from other
unfortunate consequences.

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

MURaHY, J., concurring.

Nor are any issues of civil liberties at stake here. It is
unfortunate that the petitioners must be imprisoned for
acts which they probably committed in reliance upon
advice of counsel and without intent to violate the North
Carolina statute. But there are many instances of pun-:
ishment for acts whose criminality was unsuspected at
the time of their occurrence. Indeed, for nearly threequarters of a century or more individuals have been punished under bigamy statutes for doing exactly what petitioners have done. People v. Dawell, 25 Mich. 247; State
v. Armington, 25 Minn. 29, 56 S. E. 673; People v. Baker,
76 N. Y. 78; State v. Westmoreland, 76 S. C. 145. Petitioners especially must be deemed to have been aware
of the possible criminal consequences of their actions in
view of the previously settled North Carolina law on the
matter. State v. Herron,175 N. C. 754, 94 S. E. 698. This
case, then, adds no new uncertainty and comes as no
surprise for those who act fraudulently in establishing a
domicil and who disregard the laws. of their true domiciliary states.
As Mr. Justice Holmes said in his dissenting opinion
in the Haddock case, 201 U. S. at 628, "I do not suppose
that civilization will come to an end whichever way this
case is decided." Difficult problems inevitably arise from
the fact that people move about freely among the fortyeight states, eaoh of which has its own policies and laws.
Until the federal government is empowered by the Constitution to deal uniformly with the divorce problem or
until uniform state laws are adopted, it is essential that
definite lines of demarcation be made as regards the scope
and extent of the varying state practices. See 91 Cong.
Rec. 4238-4241 (May 3, 1945). This case illustrates the
drawing of one such line, a line that has been drawn
many times before without too unfortunate dislocations
resulting among those citizens of *a divorced status.
There is no reason to believe that any different or more

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

serious consequences will result from retracing that line
today.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

and

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

join in

these views.
MR.

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

dissenting.

Once again the ghost of "unitary domicil" returns on
its perpetual round, in the guise of "jurisdictional fact,"
to upset judgments, marriages, divorces, undermine the
relations founded upon them, and make this Court the unwilling'and uncertain arbiter between the concededly valid
laws and decrees of sister states. From Bell and Andrews
to Davis to Haddock to Williams and now back to Haddock and Davis through Williams again 1-is the maze
the Court has travelled in a domiciliary wilderness, only
to07ome out with no settled constitutional policy where
one is needed most.
Nevada's judgment has not been voided. It could not
be, if the same test applies to sustain it as upholds the
North Carolina convictions. 2 It stands, with the marriages founded upon it, unimpeached. For all that has
been determined or could be, unless another change is in
the making, petitioners are lawful husband and wife in
Nevada. Williams v. North CarolinaI, 317 U. S. 287; Williams v. North CarolinaII, ante, p. 226. They may be such
everywhere outside North Carolina. Lawfully wedded
also, in North.Carolina, are the divorced spouse of one and
his wife, taken for all we know in reliance upon the. Nevada decree.' That is, unless another jury shall find they
'Cf. text infra Part I.
2Presumably

it would be our function "to retry the facts" no more
if the Nevada decree were immediately under challenge here than it is
to do so when the North Carolina judgment is in issue. 'Itwould seem
therefore that we owe the same deference to Nevada's finding of domicil as wedo to North Carolina's. Cf. text at note 4 et seq.
8The record indicates that Mr. Hendrix "had brought no divorce
proceeding against the feme defendant prior to the first trial of this

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

RUT=EwEn, J., dissenting.

too are bigamists for their reliance. No such jury has
been impanelled. But were one called, it could pronounce
the Nevada decree valid upon the identical evidence from
which the jury in this case drew the contrary conclusion.
That jury or it and another, if petitioners had been tried'
separately, could have found one guilty, the other innocent, upon that evidence unvaried by a hair. And, by the
Court's test, we could do nothing but sustain the contradictory findings in all these*cases.
I do not believe the Constitution has thus confided to
the caprice of juries the faith and credit due the laws and
judgments of sister states. Nor has it thus made that
question a local matter for the states themselves to decide. Were all judgments given the same infirmity, the
full faith and credit clause would be only a dead constitutional letter.
I agree it is not the Court's business to determine policies of divorce. But precisely its function is to ray the
jurisdictional foundations upon which the states' determinations can be made effective, within and without their
borders. For in the one case due process, in the other full
faith and credit, commands of equal compulsion upon the
states and upon us, impose that duty.
I do not think we perform it, we rather abdicate, when
we confide the ultimate decision to the states or to their
juries. This we do when, for every case that matters, we
make their judgment conclusive. It is so in effect when
the crucial concept is as variable and amorphous as "domicil," is always a conclusion of "ultimate fact," and can be
established only by proof from which, as experience shows,
cause, . . . but that he has since and remarried." Although the evidence shows institution of this proceeding, it does not show a decree
was entered prior to his remarriage. Whether or not he actually relied
upon the Nevada decree, thousands of spouses so divorced do so rely,
thus founding new relations which are equally subject to invalidation
by jury finding and are always beclouded by a judgment like that rendered in this case.

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLDGE,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

contradictory inferences may be made as strikes the local
trier's fancy. The abdication only becomes more obviously explicit when we avowedly confess that the faith and
credit due may be determined either way, wherever "it
cannot reasonably be claimed that one set of inferences
rather than another" could not be drawn concerning the
very matter determined by the judgment; and the final
choice upon such a balance is left with the local jury.
No more unstable foundation, for state policies or
marital relations, could be formulated or applied. In no
region of adjudication or legislation is stability more
essential for jurisdictional foundations. Beyond abnegating our function, we make instability itself the constitutional policy when the crux is so conceived and pivoted.

What, exactly, are the effects of the decision? The Court
is careful not to say that Nevada's judgment is not valid
in Nevada. To repeat, the Court could not so declare it,
unless a different test applies to sustain that judgment
than supports North Carolina's. Presumably the same
standard applies to both; and each state accordingly is
free to follow its own policy, wherever the evidence,
whether the same or different, permits conflicting inferences of domicil, as it always does when the question
becomes important.'
'This must be true unless, contrary to the disclaimer, this
Court itself is "to retry the facts." The Court no more
could say that the Nevada evidence permitted no conclusion of domicil there than it now can say the North Carolina evidence would not allow a finding either way. This
apparently is conceded. The proof was not identical.
But it was not so one-sided in either case that only one
conclusion was compelled. The evidence in Nevada was
Cf. text at notes 2, 5, 7, 9, 11 et seq.

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

neither that strong nor that weak.' Seldom, if ever, is
it so.
The necessary conclusion follows that the Nevada decree was valid and remains valid within her borders. So
the marriage is good in Nevada, but void in North Carolina, just as it was before "the jurisdictional requirement
of domicil [was] freed from confusing refinements about
'matrimonial domicil,' see Davis v. Davis, 305 U. S. 32, 41,
and the like." See also Haddock v. Haddock, 201 U. S.
562.
The characterization "in rem" has been dropped. But
it is clear from the result and from the opinion that the
more "confusing refinements" and consequences, including the anomalous status Haddock approved, have not
completely disappeared. We are not told definitely
whether Nevada's adjudication or North Carolina's must
be respected, when the question is raised in some one of
the other forty-six states. But one thing we do know.
"The State of domiciliary origin should not be bound by
an unfounded, even if not collusive, recital in the record
of a court of another State." The opinion goes on to
repeat: "If a finding by the court of one State that domicil
in another State has been abandoned were conclusive
upon the old domiciliary State, the policy of each State in
matters of most intimate concern could be subverted by
the policy of every other State." (Emphasis added.)
The question is not simply pertinent, it is imperative,
whether "matrimorlial domicil" has not merely been recast
5The Nevada court knew that petitioners recently had come from
North Carolina, resided in tourist quarters, an auto court, and by inference at least that they had come together. There was in the facts
sufficient basis for conclusion that they had no "bona fide" intention
of remaining permanently or indefinitely, after the decrees were rendered, if the court had wished to draw that conclusion. Credibility in
such circumstances isalways for the trier of fact. Worcester County
Trust Co. v. Riley, 302 U. S. 292, 299; Burbank v. Ernst, 232 U. S.
162, 164.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

and returned to the play under the common law's more
ancient name of "domicil of origin." For North Carolina
is the only state which, upon the facts, conceivably could
qualify either as "matrimonial domicil" or as "domicil of
origin," whether or not they differ. Under the former
conception it was at least doubtful whether sheer reexamination of,"the jurisdictional fact" previously determined
could be made outside the state granting the divorce and
the state of "matrimonial domicil."8 Now we are told
the decree "must be respected by the other forty-seven
States provided-and it is a big proviso-the conditions
for the exercise of power by the divorce-decreeing court
are validly established whenever that judgment is elsewhere called into question." (Emphasis added.)
If this means what it says, the proviso is big. It swallows the provision. Unless "matrimonial domicil," banished in Williams I, has returned renamed in Williams II,
every decree becomes vulnerable in every state. Every
divorce, wherever granted, whether upon a residence of
six weeks, six months or six years, may now be reexamined by every other state, upon the same or different evidence, to redetermine the "jurisdictional fact," always the
ultimate conclusion of "domicil." For the grounds of the
decision wholly negate that its effect can be limited to
decrees of states having so-called "liberal" divorce policies; or to decrees recently granted; or to cases where
different evidence is presented. It is implicit and inherent
in the "unitary-domicil, jurisdictional-fact, permissibleinference" rule that any decree, granted after any length
of time, upon any ground for divorce, and however solid
the proof, may be reexamined either by "the state of
domiciliary origin" or by any other state, as the case uncertainly may be. And all that is needed, to disregard it,
is some evidence from which a jury reasonably may conclude there was no domiciliary intent when the decree was
rendered. That is, unless the Court means to reserve
6Haddock v. Haddock, 201 U. S. 562, 572.

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

RUTLEDGE,

249

J., dissenting.

decision upon the weight of the evidence and thus "to
retry the facts," contrary to its declared intention, in some
case or cases not defined or indicated.
II
Obviously more is involved than full faith and credit
for judgments of other states. Beneath the judgment of
Nevada lie her statutory law and policy. These too are
denied recognition. This is not a case in which the denial
extends, or could extend, to the judgment alone. For the
North Carolina verdict and judgment do not purport to
rest on any finding of fraud or other similar ground,
whereby the petitioners procured judgments from the
Nevada courts which the manner of their procurement
vitiates.
No such issue, impeaching the Nevada decree, has been
made. The state asked no instructions on such a theory
and none were given.' The verdict and judgment there7 The case was not tried on any theory that Nevada's court was defrauded or her law evaded. No effort was made to bring it within that
well recognized exception to the binding effect of judgments generally. United States v. Throckmorton, 98 U. S. 61; Toledo Scale Co.
v. Computing Scale Co., 261 U. S. 399. Nor is that ground asserted
here to support the denial of credit. It was not suggested, and is not
now, that Nevada either would, or could be required to, set. aside her
judgment or reach a different result, upon the evidence this record
presents; or that she now is bound to give full faith and credit to
North Carolina's decision. Nor has it been contended that the
Nevada evidence was not adequate to support her finding.
8 Petitioners' motion for judgment by nonsuit, which the court denied, was grounded in part upon the absence of evidence of fraud
upon 2the Nevada court or law and alleged incompetence of such evi'dence if tendered. They also objected to the portions'of the charge
which submitted the issue of "bona fide domicil" without reference to
the effect of the evidence as tending to vitiate the Nevada decree.
"Bona fides" is inherently an element in domiciliary intent. Merely
adding the phrase as qualifying adjective does not raise an issue of
fraud. For this reason, founded in the state of the record, the Court
eschews grounding the decision upon fraud or collusion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

fore have not determined and do not rest upon any such
ground.
In view of this fact I am completely at loss to understand what is meant, in the context of this case, by "an
unfounded, even if not collusive, recital" which the state
of domiciliary origin, perhaps others too, is free to disregard. The statement itself negates collusion as a ground
for the decision. And, as I read the remainder of the opinion, it concedes and must concede, if the two judgments
are to be tested alike, that the Nevada decree was not unfounded. The shape the issues have taken compels this
conclusion.
. Accordingly the case must be considered as shorn of any
element of fraud, deceit or evasion of Nevada's law, of
showing that the Nevada court was imposed upon in any
way or did other than apply the Nevada law according
to its true intent and purpose. It must be taken also as
devoid of any showing that Nevada failed in any way to
comply with every requirement this Court has made respecting jurisdiction or due process of law, for rendering
a valid divorce decree. Williams v. North Carolina, 317

U. S. 287.
The case therefore stands stripped of every difference,
presently material, from the Nevada proceedings save two.
There was ndne, jurisdictionally, in the issues. There was
only different evidence upon which the same issue was
determined in opposite fashions. And the states had
different policies concerning divorce.
The difference in the evidence affected solely events
taking place after the Nevada decree, the return to North
Carolina and the cohabitation there. Ordinarily, valid
judgments are not overturned, Schneiderman v.- United
States, 320 U. S. 118, or disregarded upon such retroactive
proof." But here this proof was not tendered in attack
g Cf. Cochrane V. Deener, 95 U. S. 355; United States v. Maxwell
Land-Grant Co., 121 U. S. 325, 381; United States v. San Jacinto Tin

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

upon the Nevada decree. It was offered and admitted
exclusively to relitigate the same issue that decree had determined, upon adequate evidence and in full compliance
with Nevada law and the federal law giving Nevada jurisdiction to determine it. Williams I; Williams II. Its sole
function was to show that petitioners did not have the
very intent the Nevada court, with eyes not blinded,' had
found they possessed.
Moreover, the character of the Court's ruling makes the
difference in the evidence, as it bore upon the controlling
issue, of no materiality. It is not held that denial of credit
will be allowed, only if the evidence is different or depending in any way upon the character or the weight of the
difference. The test is not different evidence. It is evidence, whether the same or different and, if different,
without regard to the quality of the difference, from which
an opposing set of inferences can be drawn by the trier
of fact "not unreasonably." Presumably the Court will
not "retry the facts" in either case.
But it does not define "not unreasonably." It vaguely
suggests a supervisory function, to be exercised when the
denial strikes its sensibilities as wrong, by some not stated
standard. So to suspend the matter is not law. It is only
added uncertainty.
If the Court means not "to retry the facts," the suggestion is wholly out of place. Then the test will be as
it is in other cases where the question is whether a jury's
verdict will be sustained, upon an issue alleging want of
supporting evidence. There will be no "weighing."
There will be only examination for sufficiency, with the
limits marked by "scintillas" and the like. 1'
Co., 125 U. S. 273, 300; Lalone v. United States, 164 U. S. 255; United
States v. American Bell Tel. Co., 167 U. S. 224. See 9 Wigmore,
Evidence (3rd ed.) § 2498.

20 Cf. note 5.
" Cf. Commissioners of Marion County v. Clark 94 U. S. 278, 284;
Jones v. East Tennessee, V. & G. R. Co., 128 U. S. 443, 445; Tiller v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

If this is the test, for all practical purposes the Court
might as well declare outright that states of domiciliary
origin are free to deny faith and credit to divorces granted
elsewhere. For the case will be rare indeed where, by this
standard, "domicil" can be determined as a matter of law,
when divorce has been secured after departure from such
a state. These are the only cases that matter. The issue
does not arise with stay-at-homes. With others, it always
can be raised and nearly always with "some" evidence,
more than a "scintilla," to sustain both contentions.
But if the test is different, "weighing" necessarily becomes involved and implicitly is what has been done in
this case, notwithstanding the disclaimer. In that event,
the crux of jurisdiction becomes the difference in the
evidence; in this case, the return to North Carolina and
cohabitation there.
If this is the decision's intended effect, it should be
squarely so declared. Too much hangs for too many people and for the states themselves upon beclouling it with
a "different set of inferences-refusal to retry the facts"
gloss or otherwise. It cannot be assumed that the matter
will affect only a few. For this has become a nation of
transient people. Lawyers everywhere advise for or
against divorce and courts grant or deny it, depending
not on the probability that the case Will come here, but
on what is done here with the few cases which do come.
-The matter is altogether too serious, for too many, for
glossing over the crucial basis of decision.
Whether the one test or the other is intended, or perhaps
still another not suggested, North Carolina's action comes
down to sheer denial of faith and credit to Nevada's law
and policy, not merely to her judgment; and the decision
here, to approval of this denial. The real difference, in
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 318 U. S. 54, 6S; Bailey v. Central Vermont R. Co., 319 U. S. 350, 353, 354; Tennant v. Peoria& P. U. R. Co.,
321 U. S. 2q, 35; 9 Wigmore, § 2494.

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

my opinion the only material one, as the issues and the
decision have been made on this record, is that one suit
and judgment took place in Nevada, the other in North
Carolina, and the two states have different policies relating to divorce. Nor does the degree or quality of the
difference in policies matter. It also is not weighed."
The difference may be small for anything that is said, yet
there is freedom to withhold credit.
If this is the test, every divorce granted a person who has
come from another state is vulnerable wherever state policies differ, as they do universally if no account is taken of
the weight of difference.
It is always a serious matter for us to say that one state
is bound to give effect to another's decision, founded in its
different policy. That mandate I would not join in any
case if not compelled by the only authority binding both
the states and ourselves. Conceivably it might have been
held that the full faith and credit clause has no application
to the matters of marriage and divorce. But the Constitution has not left open that choice. And such has not
been the course of decision. The clause applies, but from
today it would seem only to compel "respect" or something less than faith and credit, whenever a jury concludes "not unreasonably," by ultimate inference from the
always conflicting circumstantial evidence, that it should
not apply. Wherever that situation exists, the finding
that there was no "bona fide" domiciliary intent comes in
every practical effect to this and nothing more.
Permitting the denial is justified, it is said, because we
must have regard also for North Carolina's laws, policies
and judgments. And so we must. But thus to state the
question is to beg the controlling issue. By every test
remaining effective, and not disputed, Nevada had power
to alter the petitioner's marital status. She made the
alteration. If it is valid, neither North Carolina nor we
12

Cf. note 16.

254

.OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

are free to qualify it by saying it shall not be effective
there, while it is effective in Nevada, and stands without
impeachment for ineffectiveness there.
Just that denial is what the terms of the Constitution
and the Act of Congress implementing'them forbid. It is
exactly for the situation where state policies differ that the
clause and the legislation were intended. Without such
differences, the need for constitutional limitation was
hardly one of magnitude. The apparent exceptions for
fraud and want of jurisdiction were never intended to enable the states to disregard the provision and each other's
policies, crystallized in judgment, when every requisite for
jurisdiction has been satisfied and no showing of fraud
has been presented. They have a different purpose, one
consistent with the constitutional mandate, not destructive of its effect. That purpose is to make sure that the
state's policy has been applied in the judgment, not to permit discrediting it or the judgment when the one validly
crystallizes the other. Such an exception, grafted upon
the clause, but nullifies it. It does so totally when the
weight and quality of the difference in policies has no
bearing on the issue.
Lately this fact has been recognized increasingly in relation to other matters than divorce." 3 The very function
of the clause is to compel the states to give effect to the
contrary policies of other states when these have been
validly embodied in judgment. To this extent the Constitution has foreclosed the freedom of the states to apply
their own local policies. The foreclosure was not intended
only for slight differences or for unimportant matters. It
was also for the most important ones. The Constitution
was not dealing with puny matters or inconsequential limitations. If the impairment of the power of the states is
large, it is one the Constitution itself has made. Neither
1-Cf. Milwaukee County v. M. E. White Co., 296 U. S. 268; Titus v.
Wallick, 306 U. S. 282; Texas v. Florida,306 U. S. 398, 410.

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

RunmF

, J., dissenting.

the states nor we are free to disregard it. The "local public policy" exception is not an exception, properly speaking. It is a nullifying compromise of the provision's terms
and purpose.
The effort at such compromise, in matters of divorce and
remarriage, has not been successful. Together with the
instrument by which the various attempts have been
made, i. e., the notion of "unitary domicil" constitutionalized as "jurisdictional fact," this effort has been the source
of the long confusion in the circle of decision here. To it
may be attributed the reification of the marital status,
now discarded in name if not in substance, and the splitting of the res to make two people husband and wife in one
state, divorced in another. Haddock v. 'Haddock, supra;
cf. Williams I. Now it leads to practical abandonment
of the effort, of this Court's function, and of the obliga-

tion placed upon the states, by committing to their juries
for all practical effects the final choice to disregard it.
III

I do not concur in the abdication. I think a major operation is required to prevent it. The Constitution does
not mention domicil. Nowhere does it posit the powers of
the states or the nation upon that amorphous, highly variable common-law conception. Judges have imported it.
The importation, it should be clear by now, has failed in
creating a workable constitutional criterion for this delicate region. in its origin the idea of domicil was stranger
to the federal system and the problem of allocating power
within it. The principal result of transplanting it to constitutional soil has been to make more complex, variable
and confusing than need be inherently the allocation of
authority in the federal scheme. The corollary consequence for individuals has been more and more to infuse
with uncertainty, confusion, and caprice those human relations which most require stability and depend for it upon
how the distribution of power is made.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

In my opinion these consequences are inevitable as long
as "unitary domicil" usurps the role of "jurisdictional
fact" and is applied under the "permissible inference" rule
to turn questions of power first for creating jurisdiction,
then for nullifying the effects of its exercise, to settle and
then unsettle the human relations resting upon the
power's exertion. The conception has outlived its jurisdictional usefulness unless caprice, confusion and contradiction are the desirable criteria and consequences of
jurisdictional conceptions.
Stripped of its common-law gloss, the basic constitutional issue inherent in the problem is whether the states
shall have power to adopt so-called "liberal" divorce policies and grant divorces to persons coming from other
states while there transiently or for only short periods not
sufficient in themselves, absent other objective criteria,
to establish more than casual relations with the community. One could understand and apply, without decades
of confusion, a ruling that transient divorces, founded on
fly-by-night "residence," are invalid where rendered as
well as elsewhere; in other words, that a decent respect for
sister states and their interests requires that each, to validly decree divorce, do so only after the person seeking it
has established connections which give evidence substantially and objectively that he has become more than
casually affiliated with the community. Until then the
newcomer would be treated as retaining his roots, for this
purpose, as so often happens for others, at his former
place of residence. One equally could understand and
apply with fair certainty an opposite policy frankly conceding state power to grant transient, or short-term
divorces, provided due process requirements for giving
notice to the other spouse were complied with.
Either solution would entail some attenuation of state
power. But that would be true of any other, which would
not altogether leave the matter to the states and thus

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

nullify the constitutional command. Strong considerations could be stated for either choice. The one would give
emphasis to the interests of the states in maintaining
locally prevailing sentiment concerning familial and social
institutions. The other would regard the matter as more
important from the standpoint of individual than of institutional relations and significance. But either choice
would be preferable to the prevailing attempt at compromise founded upon the "unitary domicil-jurisdictional
fact-permissible inference" rule.
That compromise gives effect to neither policy. It
vitiates both; and does so in a manner wholly capricious
alike for the institutional and the individual aspects of
the problem. The element of caprice lies in the substantive domiciliary concept itself and also in the mode of its
application.
Domicil, as a substantive concept, steadily reflects
neither a policy of permanence nor one of transiency. It
rather reflects both inconstantly. The very name gives
forth the idea of home with all its ancient associations of
permanence. But "home" in the modern world is often a
trailer or a tourist camp. Automobiles, nation-wide business and multiple family dwelling units have deprived
the institution, though not the idea, of its former general
fixation to soil and locality. But, beyond this, "home"
in the domiciliary sense can be changed in the twinkling
of an eye, the time it takes a man to make up his mind to
remain where he is when he is away from home. He need
do no more than decide, by a flash of thought, to stay
"either permanently or for an indefinite or unlimited
length of time." " No other connection of permanence is
14 Citation of authority is hardly needed for reference to the diffi-

culties courts have encountered in the effort to define this intent.
"Animus manendi" is often a Latin refuge which succeeds only in evading, not in resolving, the question with which Job wrestled in his
suffering.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

required. All of his belongings, his business, his family,
his established interests and intimate relations may remain where they have always been. Yet if he isbut physically present elsewhere, without even bag or baggage,
and undergoes the mental flash, in a moment he has
created a new domicil though hardly a new home.
Domicil thus combines the essentially contradictory
elements of permanence and instantaneous change. No
legal conception, save possibly "jurisdiction," of which
it is an elusive substratum, affords such possibilities for
uncertain application. The 'only thing certain about it,
beyond its uncertainty, is that one must travel to change
his domicil. But he may travel without changing it, even
remain for a lifetime in his new place of abode without
doing so. Apart from the necessity for travel, hardly
evidentiary of stabilized relationship in a transient age,
the criterion comes down to a purely subjective mental
state, related to remaining for a length of time never yet
defined with clarity.
With the crux of power fixed in such a variable, small
wonder that the states vacillate in applying it and this
Court ceaselessly seeks without finding a solution for its
quandary. But not all the vice lies in the substantive conception. Only lawyers know, unless now it-is taxpayers
and persons divorced, how rambling is the scope of facts
from which proof is ever drawn to show and negate the
ultimate conclusion of subjective "fact." They know,
as do the courts and other tribunals which wrestle with the
problem, how easily facts procreative of conflicting inferences may be marshalled and how conjectural is the
15 Cf. Tilt v. Kelsey, 207 U. S. 43; Iowa v. Slimmer, 248 U. S.115;
Worcester County Trust Co. v. Riley, 302 U. S. 292; Texas v. Florida,
306 U. S. 398; Sweeney v. District of Columbia, 113 F. 2d 25, cert.
denied, 310 U. S. 631. Compare District of Columbia v. Murphy,
314 U. S. 441, with District of Columbia v. Pace, 320 U. S. 698. See
121 A. L. R. 1200; Tweed and Sargent, Death a"d Taxes Are Certain-But What of Domicile? (1939)'53 Harv. L. Rev. 68.

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

RUTLEDGE, J., dissenting.

outcome. There is no greater legal gamble. Rare is the
situation, where much is at stake, in which conflicting
circumstances cannot be shown and where accordingly
conflicting ultimate inferences cannot be drawn.
The essentially variable nature of the test lies therefore as much in the proof and the mode of making the'
conclusion as in the substantive conception itself. When
what must be proved is a variable, the proof and the conclusion which follows upon it inevitably take on that
character. The "unitary domicil-jurisdictional fact-permissible inference" variable not only is an inconstant,
vacillating pivot for allocating power. It is inherently a
surrender of the power to make the allocation.
That effect is not nullified by vague reservation of
supervisory intent. For supervision in any case that
matters, that is, wherever the issue is crucial, nullifies the
test. I think escape should be forthright and direct. It
can be so only if the attempt to compromise what will not
yield to compromise is forsworn, with the ancient gloss
that serves only to conceal in familiar formula its essentially capricious and therefore nullifying character. This
discarded, choice then would be forced between the ideas
of transiency with due process safeguards and some minimal establishment of more than casual or transitory relations in the new community, giving the newcomer something of objective substance identifying him with its
life.
With this choice made, objective standards of proof
could apply, for the thing to be proved would be neither
subjective nor so highly variable as inference of state of
mind in ambiguous situation always must te. Neither
domicil's sharp subjective exclusions between;the old and
the new nor its effort to probe the unprovable worljings
of thought at some past moment, as in relation/to the
length of time one purposed remaining or whether there
was vestigial and contingent intent to return, would be
material.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RUTLEDGE, J.,

dissenting.

525 U. S.

With the subjective substratum removed, the largest
source of variable and inconstant decision would .disappear. This would be true, whether transiency guarded by
due process or some more established but objectively determinable relation with the community were chosen for
the standard to turn the existence of power. Either
choice would be preferable to the variable which can give
only inconstant and capricious effects, nullifying both
policies.
If by one choice states of origin were forced to modify
their local policies by giving effect to the different policies of other states when crystallized in valid judgments,
that would be no more than the Constitution in terms
purports to require. And it may be doubted their surrender would be much greater in practical effects than
the present capricious arid therefore deceptive system
brings about."0 If by some more restrictive choice states
now free to give essentially transient divorce were required
10The

residence requirements of the states for absolute divorce

vary depending at times on the ground for divorce relied on, the

place where the cause of action arose, or other factors. Speaking
generally, approximately 33 states require one year's residence in most
divorce actions. Nine states are more severe, 7 of these requiring 2
years' residence and two a longer period. Six states are less severe.
Of these North Carolina at present requires a 6 months' residence
and the others six weeks to three months. See Warren, Schouler
Divorce Manual (1944) 705-720. Thus, practically speaking, 39
states require one year or less, only 9 longer.
It seems questionable, at any rate, that the grounds for divorce as
such have "jurisdictional" significance. Presumably, if length of residence is the controlling factor, ail'of the states would be required
to give effect to divorces granted by the 42 requiring one year or
longer, unless the greatly preponderant legislative judgment is to be
disregarded. The permissible denial accordingly would extend at
the most to decrees granted by the six states requiring less than one
year. It is difficult to see how greatly disruptive effects would be
created for them or for the other states by requiring them to approximate the generally prevailing judgment as to the length of the
period appropriate for granting impeccable divorce.

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

BLACK, J., dissenting.

to modify that policy for locally valid effects, within the
limits of any objective standard that conceivably would
be acceptable for constitutional purposes, the obligations
they owe to the nation and to sister states would seem
amply to justify that modest curtailment of their power.
It is hard to see what legitimate substantial interest a
state may have in providing divorces for persons only
transiently there or for newcomers before they have
created, by reasonable length of stay or other objective
standards, more than fly-by-night connections.
I therefore dissent from the judgment which, in my
opinion, has permitted North Carolina at her substantially unfettered will to deny all faith and credit to the
Nevada decree, without in any way impeaching or attempting to impeach that judgment's constitutional
validity. But if she is not to be required thus to give
the faith and credit due, in my opinion she should not
be allowed to deny it by any standard of proof which is
less than generally is required to overturn or disregard
a judgment upon direct attack. Cf. Schneiderman v.
United States, 320 U. S. 118. The solemnity of the judicial act and the very minimum of "respect" due the action of a sister state should compel adherence to this
standard, though doing so would not givb the full faith
and credit which the Constitution commands. To approximate the constitutional policy would be better than
to nullify it.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting.
Anglo-American law. has, until today, steadfastly maintained the principle that before an accused can be convicted of crime, he must be proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. These petitioners have been sentenced to
prison because they were unable to prove their innocence
to the satisfaction of the State of North Carolina. They
have been convicted under a statute so uncertain in its

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

application that not even the most learned member of
the bar could have advised them in advance as to whether
their conduct would violate the law. In reality the petitioners are being deprived of their freedom because the
State of Nevada, through its legislature and courts,
follows a liberal policy in granting divorces. They had
Nevada divorce decrees which authorized them to remarry.
Without charge or proof of fraud in obtaining these
decrees,' and without holding the decrees invalid under
Nevada law, this Court affirms a conviction of petitioners,
for living together as husband and wife. I cannot reconcile this with the Full Faith and Credit Clause and with
Congressional legislation passed pursuant to it.
It is my firm conviction that these convictions cannot
be harmonized with vital constitutional safeguards designed to safeguard individual liberty and to unite all the
states of this whole country into one nation. The fact
that two people will be deprived of their constitutional
rights impels me to protest as vigorously as I can against
affirmance of these. convictions. Even more, the Court's
opinion today will cast a cloud over the lives of countless
numbers of the multitude of divorced persons in the
United States. The importance of the issues prompts me
to set out my views in some detail.
Statistics indicate that approximately five million divorced persons are' scattered throughout the forty-eight
states.2 More than 85% of these divorces were granted in
1 Previous

decisions of this Court have asserted that a state cannot

justify its refusal to give another state's judgment full faith and credit,
at least, in the absence of a showing that fraud is an adequate ground
for setting the judgment aside in the state where it was rendered. See
Christmas v. Russell, 5 Wall. 290, 302-304; Maxwell v. Stewart, 22
Wall. 77, 81; Bigelow v. Old Dominion Copper Co., 225 U. S. 111,
J.34.
2
According to the best available statistics more than five million
divorces were granted in the last twenty years and the annual rate is
steadily increasing. See Marriage and Divorce Statistics, Bureau of

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

BiAcx, 3., dissenting.

uncontested proceedings. 8 Not one of this latter group
can now retain any feeling of security in his divorce decree.

Ever present will be the danger of criminal prosecution
and harassment.
All these decrees were granted by state courts. Erie R.
Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, and cases following it, recognized the obvious truth, that rules of law laid down by
state courts are binding. These judicial "laws" are represented by decrees, judgments and court opinions. Today's
opinion, however, undermines and makes uncertain the
validity of every uncontested divorce decree. It wipes out
.every semblance of their finality and decisiveness. It
achieves what the Court terms the -"desirable effect" of
providing the "same" quality to every divorce decree,
the Census, 1942, and the same reports tor different years; Divorce,
Depression and War, Social Forces, University of North Carolina Press,
Dec. 1943, 191, 192; Social and Statistical Analysis, Law and Contemporary Problems, Duke University, Summer 1944; 1940 Census, Bureau of the Census, Vol. 4, Tables 29 and 48; Ogburn, Marriages,
Births and Divorces, Annals, American Academy, Sept. 1943, 20.
8This percentage is shown by the various "Marriage and Divorce"
publications of the Bureau of the Census, Department of -Commerce.
Careful studies in particular localities have indicated that the percentage of uncontested divorces is substantially above the 85% shown in
Census Reports. In Maryland, for instance, 3,306 petitions for divorce were filed in 1929. 1,847 defendants failed to answer and the
complainant had decrees in all but six cases. "A total of 1,459 defendants, however, filed answers to the plaintiff's allegations and thus
staged a technical contest. This does not necessarily mean that a
given defendant was opposed to a decree being granted. Of these
1,459 technically contested actions, 442 dropped out without coming
If
to hearing, thus leaving 1,017 technical contests in the field...
we accompany the plaintiffs in the 1,017 remaining technical contests
to the hearing, we find little in the way of substantial contest. There
is a positive record of no contest in 808 cases; .of a contest in 81 cases;
and data are not available with respect to contest in 128 cases ....
It seems likely that in less %than100 cases was there at the hearing a
contest concerning whether a decree should be granted." Marshall
and May, The Divorce Court, 226-227.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

"wherever the question arises"-it endows them all alike
with the "same" instability and precariousness. The
result is to classify divorced persons in a distinctive and
invidious category. A year ago, a majority of this Court in
a workmen's compensation case declared that'the .Full
Faith and Credit Clause of the Constitution was a "nationally unifying force"; ' today, as to divorce decrees, that
clause, coupled with a new content recently added to the
Due Process Clause, has become a nationally disruptive
force. - Uncontested divoice decrees are thus so degraded
that a person who marries in reliance upon them can be
sent to jail. With much language the Court has in effect
adopted the previously announced hypothesis upon which
the North Carolina Supreme Court permitted another person to be sent :to prison, namely, that "the full faith and
credit clause does not apply to actions for divorce, and that
the states alone have the right to determine what effect
shall be given to the decrees of other states in this class
of cases." State v. Herron, 175 N. C. 754, 758, 94 S. E.
698; cf.-Matter of Holmes, 291 N. Y. 261, 273, 52 N. E. 2d
424.
The petitioners were married in Nevada. North Carolina has sentenced them to prison for living together as
husband anad wife in North Carolina. This Court today
affirms those sentences without a determination that the
Nevada marriage was invalid under that state's laws.
This holding can be supported, if at all, only on one of two
grounds: (1) North Carolina has extra-territorial power
to regulate marriages within Nevada's territorial boundaries, or, (2) North Carolina can punish people who live
together in that state as husband and wife even though
they have been validly married in Nbvada. A holding
based on either of these two grounds encroaches upon the
general principle recognized by this Court that a marriage
validly consummated under one state's laws is valid in
.'Magnolia Petroleum Co. v. Hunt, 320 U. S. 430, 439.

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

265

BLACK, J., dissenting.

every other state." If the Court is today abandoning
that principle, it takes away from the states a large part of
their hitherto plenary control over the institution of marriage. A further consequence is to subject people to
criminal prosecutions for adultery and bigamy. merely
because they exercise their constitutional right to pass
from a state in which they were validly married into another state which refuses to recognize their marriage.
Such a consequence runs counter to the basic guarantees
of our federal union. Edwardsv. California,314 U. S. 160.
It is true that persons validly married under the laws of
one state have been convicted of crime for living together
in other states.' But those state convictions were not
approved by this Court. And never before today has this
Court decided a case upon the assumption that men and
women validly married under the laws of one state could
be sent to jail by another state for conduct which-involved
nothing more than living together as husband and wife.
The Court's opinion may have passed over the marriage
question on the unspoken premise that the petitioners
were without legal capacity to marry. .If so, the primary
question still would be whether that capacity, and other
issues subsidiary to it, are to be determined under Nevada,
North Carolina, or federal law. Answers to these ques5

Loughran v. Loughran, 292 U. S. 216,223-225; Dudley v. Dudley,
151 Iowa 142, 130 N. W. 785; Ex parte Crane, 170 Mich. 651, 136
N. W. 587; see Radin, Authenticated Full Faith and Credit Clause,
39 Ill. L. R. 1, 32. See also Annotations, 60 Am. St. Rep. 942; 28
L. R. A. N. S. 754; 127 A. L. R. 437.
This question has arisen most frequently in the applic~tion of
state laws making it a criminal offense for persons of difei'ent races
to live together as husband and wife. See e. g., State v. Bell, 7 Baxt.
(Tenn.) 9. That case has been explained as a holding that "Without denying the validity of a marriage in another state, the privileges
flowing from marriage may be subject to the local law." Yarborough
v. Yarborough, 290 U. S. 202, 218. See also Greenhow v. James, 80
Va. 636. Cf. Pearson v. Pearson,51 Cal. 120; State v. Ross, 76 N. C.
242; Whittington v. McCaskill, 65 Fla. 162, 61 So. 236.

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK, J.,

dissenting.

325 U. S.

tions require a discussion of the divorce decrees awarded
to the petitioners in a Nevada court prior to their marriage
there.
When the Nevada decrees were granted, the petitioners' former spouses lived in North Carolina. When petitioners were tried and convicted, one of their former
spouses was dead and the other had remarried. Under
the legal doctrine prevailing in Nevada and in most of
the states, these facts would make both the decrees immune from attack unless, perhaps, by persons other than
the North Carolina spouses, whose property rights might
ibe'adversely affected by the decrees.' So far as appears
from the record no person's property rights were adversely
affected by the dissolution decrees. None of the parties
to the marriage, although formally notified of the Nevada
divorce proceedings, made any protest before or after
the decrees were rendered. The state did not sue here to
protect any North Carolinian's property rights or to obtain
support for the families which had been deserted. The
result of all this is that the right of the state to attack
the validity of these decrees in a criminal proceeding is
today sustained, although the state's citizens, on whose
behalf it purports to act, could not have done so at the
time of the conviction in:a civil proceeding. Furthermore, all of the parties to the first two marriages were
apparently satisfied that their happiness did not lie in
continued marital cohabitation. North Carolina claims
no interest in abridging their individual freedom by forcing them to live together against their own desires. The
state's interest at the time these petitioners were convicted
See e. g., Foy v. Smith's Estate, 58 Nev. 871, 81 P. 2d 1065;
Dwyer v. Nolan, 40 Wash. 459, 82 P. 746,1 L. R. A. N. 8. 551; Chapman v. Chapman, 224 Mass. 427, 113 N. E. 359; Matter of Bingham,
265 App. Div. 463, 39 N. Y. S. 2d 756; Moyer v. Koontz, 103 Wis. 22,

79 N.'W. 50; Leathers v.Stebt, 108 Me 96, 79 L-16, Ann. Cas.
1913B, 366,369-372; Kirschnerv. Dietrich,110 Cal. 52,42 P. 1064;
Schouler Divorce Manual, 588-90.

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

Bi~cx, J., dissenting.

thus comes down to its concern in preserving a bare marital status for a spouse who had already married again.
If the state's interest before that time be. considered, it
was to preserve a bare marital status as to two persons who
had sought a divorce and two others who had not objected
to it. It is an extraordinary thing for a state to procure
a retroactiveinvalidation of a divorce decree, and then
punish one of its citizens for conduct authorized by that
decree, when it had never been challenged by either of
the people most immediately interested in it. I would not
permit such an attenuated state interest to override the
Full Faith ' and Credit Clause of the Constitution and an
Act of Congress pursuant to it.8 Here again, North Carolind's right to attack this judgment, despite the Full Faith
and Credit Clause and the Congressional enactment, is not
-,based on Nevada law; nor could it be. For in Nevada,
even the Attorney General could not have obtained a cancellation of the decree on the ground that it was rendered
Without jurisdiction. State v. Moore, 46 Nev. 65, 207 P.
75. This makes it clear beyond all doubt that North Carolina has not given these decrees the same effect that they
would be given in the courts of Nevada.
The Court permits North Carolina to disregard the decrees on the following line of reasoningi No state need
give full faith and credit to a "void" decree. A decree
8

Here too we approach the domain where the line may be shadowy
between the individual rights of people to choose and keep their own
associates and the power of the state to prescribe who shall be their
most intimate associates. People in this country do not "belong" to
the state. .LeMesurier v. Le Mesurier, [1895] A. C. 517. Our Constitution preserves an area of individual freedom which the state has
no Aght to abridge. The flavor of the Court's opinion is that a state,
has Supremle power to control its domiciliaries' conduct wherever they
go and that the state may prohibit them from getting a divorce in
another state.. In this aspect the decision is not confined to a hold-*

ing which relates to state as opposed to federal rights. It contains
a restriction of individual as opposed to state rights. See Radin,
supra, 28-32.

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK, J.,

dissenting.

325 U. S.

rendered by a court without "jurisdiction" is "void." No
state court has "jurisdiction" to grant a divorce unless one
of the parties is "domiciled" in the state. The North Carolina court has decided that these petitioners had no "domicile" in Nevada. Therefore,. the Nevada court had no
"jurisdiction," the decrees are "void," and North Carolina
need not give them faith or credit. The solution to all
these problems depends in turn upon the question common to all of them--does state law or federal law apply?
The Constitution provides that "Full Faith and Credit
shall be given in each State to the public Acts, Records,
and judicial Proceedings of every other State. And the
Congress may by general Laws prescribe the Manner in
which such Acts, Records and Proceedings shall be proved,
and the Effect thereof." (Emphasis added.) Acting pursuant to this constitutional authority, Congress in 1790
declared what law should govern and what "Effect" should
be given the judgments of state courts. That statute is
still the law. Its command is that they "shall have such
faith and credit given to them . . . as they have by law or

usage in the Courts of the state from which they are
taken." 28 U. S. C. 687. If, as the Court today implies,
divorce decrees should be given less effect than other court
judgments, Congress alone has the constitutional power to
say so. We should not attempt to solve the "divorce problem" by constitutional interpretation. At least, until
Congress has commanded a different "Effect" for divorces
granted on a short sojourn within a state, we should stay
our hands. A proper respect for the Constitution and the
Congress would seem to me to require that we leave this
problem where the Constitution did. If we follow that
course, North Carolina cannot be permitted to disregard
the Nevada decrees without passing upon the "faith and
credit" which Nevada itself would give to them under its
own "law or usage." The Court has decided the matter as
though it were a purely federal question; Congress and the

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

269

BLACK, J., dissenting.

Constitution declared it to be a state question. The logic
of the Court does not persuade me that we should ignore
these mandates of the Congress and the Constitution. Nevada's decrees purported to grant petitioners an absolute
divorce with a right to remarry. No "law' or usage" of
Nevada has been pointed out to us which would indicate
that Nevada would, under any circumstances, consider its
decrees so "void" as to warrant imprisoning those who
have remarried in reliance upon such existing and unannulled decrees.
A judgment may be "void" in the general sense, and yet
give rise to rights and obligations. While on the books
its-existence is a fact, not a theory. And it may be said
of decrees, later invalidated, as of statutes held unconstitutional, that "The past cannot always be erased by a new
judicial declaration. The effect of the subsequent ruling
as to invalidity may have to be considered in various aspects,:-with respect to particular relations, individual and
corporate, and particular conduct, private and official . . .
an all-inclusive statement of a principle of absolute retroactive invalidity cannot be justified." Chicot County
Drainage District v. Baxter State Bank, 308 U. S. 371,
374. Despitk the conclusion that a judgment is, "void,"
courts have in the interest of substantial justice and fairness declined to attribute a meaning to that word which
would make such judgments, for all purposes) worthless
scraps of paper.' After a judgment has been declared
"void" it still remains to decide as to the consequences attached to good faith conduct between its rendition and its
nullification. That determination, I think, must, in this
case, under the Full Faith and Credit Clause, be made in
9 Gray v. Brignardello, 1 Wall. 627, 634; Colvin v. Colvin, 2 Paige

(N. Y.) 385;. Harper The Myth of the Void Divorce, 2 Law and
Contemporary Problems, 335; The Validity of Void Divorces, 79 U.
Pa. L. Rev. 156; Tainter, Restitution of Property Transferred Under

Void or Later Reversed Judgments, 9 Miss. L. J. 157.

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLAcK, J.,

dissenting.

325 U. S.

accordance with the "law or usage" of Nevada-not of
North Carolina or the federal government.
This brings me to the Court's holding that Nevada de'crees were "void." That conclusion rests on the premise
that the Nevada court was without jurisdiction because
the North Carolina Court found that the petitioners had
no "domicile" in Nevada. The Nevada court had based
its decree on a finding that "domicile" had been established
by evidence before it. As I read that evidence, it would
have been sufficient to support the findings, had the case
been reviewed by us. Thus, this question of fact has
now been adjudicated in two state courts with different
results. It should be noted now that this Court very recently has said as to the Full Faith and Credit Clause and
the 1790'Congressional enactment, that "From the beginning this Court has held that these provisions have made
that which has been adjudicated in one state res judicata
to the same extent in every other." Magnolia Petroleum
Co. v. Hunt, supra, at 438.10 That it was appropriate for
20 The Nevada court had general jurisdiction to grant divorces, and

the complaint was required to allege domicile along with the other
requisite allegations. Domicile is as much an integral element in the
litigation as the proof of cruelty or any of the other statutory grounds

for divorce in Nevada. Labeling domicile as "jurisdictional" does not
.make it different from what it was before. Since -the Nevada court
had no power to render a divorce without proof of facts other than
domicile, there is nothing to prevent this Court, under its expansive
interpretation of the Due Process Clause, from labeling these other
facts as "jurisdictional" and taking more state powers into the fed-

eral judicial orbit. Both these types of facts, however labeled, were
part of the controversy which the Nevada legislature gave its courts
power- to resolve. The state could label them "jurisdictional" and,
having the exclusive power to grant divorces, could attach such consequences to them as it sees fit. But, while Congress might, under the
Full Faith -and Credit Clause, prescribe the "effect" in other states,

of decrees based on the finding, I do not think the federal courts can,
by their mere label, attach jurisdictional consequences to the state's
requirement of domicile. Hence, I think the quoted statement from

the Magnolia Petroleum case should control this case.

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

BLACx, J., dissenting.

the Nevada court to pass upon the question of domicile
can hardly be doubted, since the concurring opinion in our
first consideration of this case correctly said that the "Nevada decrees do satisfy the requirements of the Due Process Clause and are binding in Nevada on the absent spouses
." 317 U. S. 287, 306. The Court today, however,
seems to place its holding that the Nevada decrees are
void on the basis that the Due Process Clause makes
domicile an indispensable prerequisite to a state court's
"jurisdiction" to grant divorce. It further holds that this
newly created federal restriction of state courts projects
fact issues which the state courts cannot finally determine
for themselves. Davis v. Davis, 305 U. S.32, provides a
possible exception to this holding. It decided that where
both spouses appeared, a state court could finally determine the question of domicile. Whether the Court today
overrules that case I cannot be sure. Certainly, if a state
court cannot finally determine the question of domicile
because it is a federal question, each divorce controversy
involving domicile must be subject to review here whether
both parties appear or not.
F cannot agree to this latest expansion of federal power
and the consequent diminution of state power over marriage and marriage dissolution which the Court derives,
from adding a new content to the Due Process Clause.
The elasticity of that clause necessary to justify this holding is found, I suppose, in the notion that it was intended
to give this Court unlimited authority to supervise all
assertions of state and federal power to see that they comport with our ideas of what axe :"civilized standards of.
law." See Malinski v. New York, 324 U. S. 401. I have
not agreed that the Due Process Clause gives us any such
unlimited power, but unless it does, I am unable to under-"
stand from what source our authority to strip Nevada of
its power over marriage and divorce can be thought to
derive. Certainly, there is no language in the Constitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACxK, J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

tion which even remotely suggests that the federal government can fix the limits of a state court's jurisdiction
over divorces. In doing so, the Court today exalts
"domicile," dependent upon a mental state, to a position
of constitutional dignity. State jurisdiction in divorce
cases now depends upon a state of mind as to future intent.
Thus "a hair perhaps divides" the constitutional jurisdiction or lack of jurisdiction of state courts to grant
divorces. Cf. Pollock v. Williams, 322 U. S. 4, 21. And
this "hair-line" division involvesa federal question, apparently open to repeated adjudications at the instance
of as many different parties as can be found to raise it.
Moreover, since it is a federal question, each new litigant
has a statutory right to ask us to pass on it.
The two cases cited by the Court do not support this
novel constitutional doctrine. Bell v. Bell, 181 U. S. 175,
held a Pennsylvania decree invalid on- the ground that
there was no domicile shown. It specifically stated, however, that Pennsylvania law required one year's domicile.
Neither the decision in that case, nor any of the others on
which it relied, rested on an interpretation of the Due
Process Clause as requiring "domicile." "' Nor did the
decision in" Andrews v. Andrews, 188 U. S. 14, support today's Due Process Clause extension, for there it was said
that "...
it is certain that the Constitution of the United
States confers no power whatever upon the government
of the United States to regulate marriage . . .
v. Streitwolf, 181 U. S. 179, decided the same day as
Bell v. Bell, held a North Dakota divorce decree invalid. That holding did not rest on any "federal concept of domicile," but on the
fact that North Dakota law required "a domicile in good faith ...
for ninety days as a prerequisite to jurisdiction of a case of divorce."
12Andrews v. Andrews did not assert that any pafficular federal constitutional provision made domicile a state jurisdictional requirement
in divorce cases. It emphasized state and common law concepts
of domicile and a state's power over its "inhabitants." This emphasis led the Court to permit Massachusetts to invalidate a South
11Streitwolf

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

273

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

It is a drastic departure from former constitutional doctrine to hold that the Federal Constitution r easures the.
power of state courts to pass upon petitions- for divorce.
The jurisdiction of state courts over persons and things
within their boundaries has been uniformly acknowledged
through the years, without regard to the length of their
sojourn or their intention to remain. And that jurisdiction has not been thought to be limited by the Federal
Constitution. Legislative dissolution of marriage was
common in the colonies and the states up to the middle
of the Nineteenth Century. A legislative dissolution of
marriage, granted without notice or hearing of any kind,
was sustained by this Court long after the Fourteenth
Amendment was adopted. Maynard v. Hill, 125 U. S.
190; cf. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714, 734-735. The
provision that made "due process of law" a prerequisite
to deprivation of "life, liberty, or property" was not considered applicable to proceedings to sever the marital
status. It was only when legislatures attempted to create
or destroy financial obligations incident to marriage that
courts began to conclude that their Acts encroached upon
the right to a judicial trial in accordance with due proDakota divorce decree, even though both husband and wife had

appeared in the South Dakota Court. Cf. Davis v. Davis, 4upra.
Massachusetts had a statute which prohibited its "inhabitants" from
going into another state to get a divorce on account of conduct which.
occurred in Massachusetts, or for conduct which would not have authorized a divorce under Massachusetts law. This statute obviously
rested on a hypothesis that each state possesses these sweeping powers
over individuals: (1) power to make it a crime for its inhabitants to
go to another state to engage in conduct which might be lawful there;
(2) power to punish an inhabitant who went into another state and
engaged in conduct in harmony with that state's laws. If North
Carolina has attempted to impose such sweeping statutory prohibition upon its inhabitants, it has not been called to our attention. In
its absence the Andrews decision gives no support to the opinion
and judgment in this case.

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLAcx, J., dissenting.

325 U.S.

cess.1 ' The Court's holding now appears to.overrule Maynardv. Hill; sub silentio. This perhaps is in keeping with
the idea that the Due Process Clause is a blank sheet of
paper provided for courts to make changes in the Constitution and the Bill of Rights in accordance with their
ideas of civilization's demands. I should :leave the power
over divorces in the states. And in the absence of further
federal legislation under the Full Faith and Credit Clause.
I should leave the effect of divorce decrees to be determined as Congress commanded-according to the laws and
usage5 of the state where the decrees are entered."'
Implicit in the majority of the ppiniohs rendered by this
and other courts, which, whether designedly or not, have
set up obstacles to the procurement of divorces, is the assumption that divorces are an unmitigated evil, and that
the'law can and should force unwilling persons to live with
each other. Others approach the problem as one which
can best be met by moral, ethical and religious teachings.
Which viewpoint is correct is not our concern. I am con"fident, however, that today's decision will no more aid in
the solution of the problem than the Dred Sc6tt decision
aided in settling controversies over slavery. This decigion, I think, takes the wrong road. Federal courts should
have less, not more, to do with divorces. Only when one
state refuses to give that faith and credit to a divorce
decree which Congress and the Constitution command,
should we enter this field.
1 Wright v. Wright's Lessee, 2 Md. 429, 453; Crane v. M~ginn8,
1 G. & J. Rep. (Md.) 463; Dwyer v. Nolan, supra. See also Owens v.
Claytor, 56 Md. 129; 2 Schouler, Marriage, Divorce and Separation,
Sixth. Edition, Pars. 1471-1473; Validity of Legdslative Divorce, 18
L. R. A. 95.
For an interesting discussion of the consequences of shifting di-

vorces from the legislatures to the courts, to be worked out in the
pattern of adversary controversies, see Marshall and May, upra,
Chap. VI, The Mirage of Judicial Controversy. For bibliography
of pettinent discussions see same, 338-341.

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

BLAcx, J., dissenting.

The Court has not only permitted North Carolina to
invalidate a Nevada decree contrary to the law and usage
of that state. It has actually placed the burden of establishing the validity of that decree on a defendant charged
with crime. The only contested question was the validity
of the decree, since the petitioners openly lived together
as man and wife. And the only issue involved concerning
that validity was domicile. The burden of proving that
single issue upon which petitioners' liberty depended was
cast upon them. Cf. State v. Herron, 175 N. C. 754,759,94
S. E. 698. The jury was not charged that the state must
prove, the defendants guilty; they were required to
prove their innocence. The result is that a state court
divorce decree is no protection from being sent to prison
in another state unless a defendant charged with acting
as it authorized can prove the state court rendering the
decree made no error in resolving facts as to domicile.
State court judgments exalted by the Constitution and by
Congress are thus degraded to a lowly status by today's
decision. State courts, no less than federal courts, were
recognized by the founding fathers as instruments of
justice. I would continue to recognize them as such. At
the very minimum we should not permit holders of these
decrees to be convicted of crime unless another state sustained the burden of invalidating them. In a case involving nothing but property, this Court has declined to
permit a second marriage to be impugned through an
alleged prior marriage "save upon proof so clear, strong
and unequivocal as to produce a moral conviction of the
existence of that impediment." Sy Joe Lieng v. Sy Quia,
228 U. S. 335, 339. And we declined to permit a naturalization decree to be set aside because of an absence of
"clear, unequivocal and convincing evidence." Schneiderman v. United States, 320 U. S. 118, 125, 159, 164, 166170. It is no justification for requiring a less burdensome
requirement here to say that in these former cases we were

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

325 U.S.

dealing with federal questi'ons. That is exactly, what is
done here. For the basic question 'in this case revolves
around the Full Faith and Credit constitutional provision
and the 1790 Congressional Act. The standard of proof
sustained is a federal, not a state, standard. To require
a defendant in a criminal case to carry the burden of
proof in sustaining his decree to prove his innocence deprives him of all but the last shred of protection that the
Full Faith and Credit Clause and the 1790 Act of Congress sought to give him. Cf. Tot V. United States, 319
U. S. 463, 473. It makes of human liberty a very cheap
thing-too cheap to be consistent with the principles of
a free government.
Moreover, the Court's unjustifiable devitalization of
the Full Faith and Credit Clause and the Act passed pursuant to It creates a situation which makes the North Carolina statute an inescapable trap fof any person who places
the slightest reliance on another state's divorce decreea situation which a proper interpretation of the federal
question would avoid. The North Carolina statute
excludes from its coverage those who "have been lawfully
divorced." Who after today's decision can know or guess
What "right" he can safely exercise under a divorce decree
in the iritervening period between the day of its entry and
the day of its invalidation by a jury? 1 This Court has
said that "a statute which either forbids or requires the
15 The answer is that, by reason of today's decision, no person can
exercise any right whatever under an uncontested divorce decree without subjecting himself to possible penitentiary punishment. "To make
the enjoyment *of a right dependent upon an impossible condition is
equivalent to an absolute denial of the right under any condition, and
such denial, enforced for a past act, is nothing less, than punishment
imposed for that act." Cummings v. Missouri, 4 Wall. 277, 327. The
"condition" here, that a divorced person cannot remarry without the
possibility of being subjected to repeated prosecutions in all the states
where he lives as a married person, would seem to rank as "an impossible condition." If, therefore, the Court's object is to make divorces

WILLIAMS v. NORTH CAROLINA.
226

277

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

doing of an act in terms so vague that men of common intelligence must necessarily guess at its meaning and differ
as to its application,violates the first essential of due process of law" (italics added).' The North Carolina statute, as applied to condemn these two petitioners to serve
prison sentences, falls precisely within this description.
It does so, because the sole essential contested issue in this
case was the validity of the divorce decrees. Involved in
this issue are questions of law mixed with questions of fact
which perplex lawyers and judges little less than they baffle "men of common intelligence." Today's decision adds
new intricacies to the whole problem for lawyers to argue
about. It provides a new constitutional concept of "jurisdiction," which itself rests on a newly announced federal
"concept of domicile." No final determination as to its
own "jurisdiction" can hereafter be made by a state court
in an uncontested divorce case. And so far as I can tell,
no other court can ever finally determine this question. It
might do so as between any two litigants, but I suppose the
question of domicile would still be left open for others to
challenge. A man might be tried for bigamy in two or
more states. He might be convicted in one or both or all,
I suppose. The affirmance of these convictions shows that
a divorced person's liberty, so far as this North Carolina
statute is concerned, hinges on his ability to "guess" at
what may ultimately be the legal and factual conclusion
resulting from a consideration of two of the most uncertain
word symbols in all the judicial lexicon, "jurisdiction" and
dangerous, its object has been accomplished. I think divorce policy
is the business of the people and their legislatures-not that of this
Court.
16 Connally v. GeneralConstruction Co., 269 U. S. 385, 391. See also
Yu Cong Eng.v. Trinidad, 271 U. S. 500, 518; United States v. Cohen.
Grocery Co., 255 U. S. 81, 89-93; Lanzetta v. New Jersey, 306 U. S.
451; Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U. S. 553; Screws v. United States, ante,
p. 91; cf. Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373,377 with Cline v. Frink
Dairy Co., 274 U. S. 445, 457, 463-464.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK,

"domicile."

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

While the doctrine that "Ignorance of the

law excuses no man" has sometimes been applied with
harsh consequences, American courts have not been in
the habit of making ignorance of law the crucial and controlling element in a penitentiary offense. Men have from
time to time been sent to prison for violating court commands which were later held invalid.'
It is quite a different thing, however, to send people to prison for lacking
the clairvoyant gift of prophesying when one judge or
jury will upset the findings of fact made by another.
In earlier times, some Rulers placed their criminal laws
where the common man could not see them, in order that
he might be entrapped into their violation. Others imposed standards of conduct impossible of achievement to
the end that those obnoxious to the ruling powers might
be convicted under the forms of law. No one of them
ever provided a more certain entrapment, than a statute
which prescribes a penitentiary punishment for nothing
more than a layman's failure to prophesy what a judge or
jury will do. This Court's decision of a federal question
today do0s just that.
MP.JUSTICE DOUGOAS joins in this dissent.

1,See e. g., People v. Morley, 72 Colo. 421, 211 P. 643; Holbrook v.
PrichardMotor Co., 27 Ga. App. 480, 109 S. E. 164; St. George's Society v. Sawyer, 204 Iowa 103, 214 N. W. 877; State v. La Follette, 100
Ore. 1, 196 P. 412.

