IN RE SUMMERS.
538

Counsel for Parties.

under the Wagner Act. It will be time enough to consider
such a claim of conflict, if anything that Florida may exact
should, in a concrete situation, actively interfere with
appropriate action by the National Labor Relations
Board. In any event, we do not know the Teach of the
Florida Act. For all that appears the Supreme Court of
Florida may construe the Act's requirements to apply only
to intrastate activities of the union and its business
agents.
The judgment should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concurs in this dissent.

IN RE SUMMERS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 205.

Argued April 27, 30, 1945.-Decided June 11, 1945.

1. The Illinois Supreme Court's refusal, on the merits, of petitioner's
application for admission to the practice of law, although the matter
was not regarded by. that court as a judicial proceeding, held to
involve a case or controversy within the judicial power under Art.
III, § 1, c. 1 of the Federal Constitution. P. 566.
2. Refusal of an application for admission to the practice of law in
a State, on the ground that the applicant would be unable in good
faith to take the required oath to support the constitution of the
State, because of conscientious scruples resulting in unwillingness
to serve in the state militia in time of war, held not a denial of any
right of the applicant under the First and Fourteenth Amendments
of the Federal Constitution. P. 571.
Affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

323 U. S. 705, to review the action of the

Supreme Court of Illinois in refusing petitioner's application for admission to the bar.
Mr. Julien Cornell, with whom Messrs. Alfred T. Carton, Charles Liebman and Arthur Garfield Hayes were on
the brief, for petitioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

William C. Wines, Assistant Attorney General of Illinois, with whom George F. Barrett,Attorney General, was
on the brief, for the Justices of the Supreme Court of
Illinois, respondents.
Messrs. Harold Evans, Ernest Angell, Claude C. Smith
and Thomas Raeburn White filed a brief on behalf of the
American Friends Service Committee, as amicus curiae,
in support of petitioner.
MR. JUSTICE

REED

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner sought a writ of certiorari from this Court
under Section 237 (b) of the Judicial Code to review the
action of the Supreme Court of Illinois in denying petitioner's prayer for admission to the practice of law in
that state. It was alleged that the denial was "on the
sole ground that he is a conscientious objector to war" or
to phrase petitioner's contention slightly differently
"because of his conscientious scruples against participation in war." Petitioner challenges here the right of the
Supreme Court to exclude him from the bar under the
due proc-ss clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States which secured to him
protection against state action in violation of the principles of the First Amendment.1 Because of the importance of the tendered issue in the domain of civil rights,
we granted certiorari.2 323 U. S.705.
Fourteent*i Amendment:
". nor, shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or
property, without due process of law . ..
First Amendment:
"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion,
or prohibitipg the free exercise thereof . . ."
Cf. Board of Educationv. Barnette,319 U. S. 624, 639.
2 The pettIjn for certiorari was not accompanied by a certified
record. Rwa 38 (1). It alleged an inability to obtain a record from

IN RE SUMMERS.
561

Opinion of the Court.

Since the proceedings were not treated as judicial by
the Supreme Court of Illinois, the record is not in the
customary form. It shows accurately, however, the steps
by which the issue was developed and the action of the
Supreme Court on the prayer for admission to the practice of law in the State of Illinois. From the record it
appears that Clyde Wilson Summers has complied with
all prerequisites for admission to the bar of Illinois except
that he has not obtained the certificate of the Committee
on Character and Fitness. Cf. Illinois Revised Statutes
1943, c. 110, § 259.58. No report appears in the record
from the Committee. An unofficial letter from the Secretary gives his personal views.' A petitior was filed in the
the Clerk of the Supreme Court of Illinois because the documents were

not in that official's custody. See note 8, infra. No opposing brief
was filed. After the expiration of the time for opposing briefs, Rule
38 (3), a rule issued "returnable within 30 days, requiring the Supreme
Court of Illinois to show cause why the record in this proceeding
should not be certified to this Court and also why the petition for writ
of certiorari herein should not be granted." Journal, Supreme Court
of the United States, October Term, 1944, p. 6. A return was duly
made by the Chief Justice and the Associate Justices of the Supreme
Court of Illinois which stated the position of the Justices on the certification of the supposed and alleged record and their opposition to
the granting of the certiorari. On consideration our writ of certiorari
issued, directed to the Honorable, the Judges of the Supreme Court of
Illinois, commanding that "the record and/or papers and proceedings"
be sent to this Court for review. Journal, Supreme Court of the
United States, October Term, 1944, p. 93. The papers comprising
the proceedings before the Supreme Court of Illinois were certified to
us by the Clerk of that court.
3 In part it reads:

"I think the record establishes that you are a conscientious objector,-also that your philosophical beliefs go further.. You eschew
the use of force regardless of circumstances but the law which you profess to embrace and which you teach and would practice is not an
abstraction observed through mutual respect. It is real. It is the result
of experience of man in an imperfect world, necessary we believe to
restrain the strong and protect the weak. It recognizes the right

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Supreme Court on August 2, 1943, which alleged that
petitioner was informed in January, 1943, that the Committee declined to sign a favorable certificate. The petition set out that the sole reason for the Committee's
refusal was that petitioner was a conscientious objector to
war, and averred that such reason did not justify his exclusion because of the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The denial of the petition for admission is

informal. It consists of a letter of September 20, 1943,
to the Secretary of the Committee which is set out below,'
a letter of the same date to Mr. Summers and a third letter
of March 22, 1944, to Mr. Summers' attorney on petition
for rehearing. These latter two letters are set out in
note 8.
The answer of the Justices to these allegations does not
appear in the record which was transmitted from the
Supreme Court of Illinois to this Court but in their return to the rule to show cause why certiorari should not
be granted. The answer is two-fold: First, that the proceedings were not a matter of judicial cognizance in
Illinois and that no case or controversy exists in this Court
even of the individual to use force under certain circumstances and
commands the use of force to obtain its observance.
"I do not argue against your religious beliefs or your philosophy of
non-violence. My point is merely that your position seems inconsistent with the obligation of an attorney at law."
• "This Court has an elaborate petition filed by Francis Heisler, an
attorney of 77 West Washington Street, Chicago, Illinois, on: behalf of
Clyde Wilson Summers.
"The substance of the petition is that the Board should overrule the
action of the Committee on Character and Fitness, in which the Committee refused to give him a certificate because he is a conscientious
objector, and for that'reason refused to register or participate in the
present national emergency.
"I am directed to advise you that the Court is of the opinion that
the report of the Committee on. Character and Fitness should be
sustained.
"Yours very truly, June C. Smith, Chief Justice."

IN RE SUMMERS.
561

565

Opinion of the Court.

under Article III of the Federal Constitution; second,
that assuming the sole ground for refusing to petitioner
admission to practice was his profession of conscientious
objection to military service, such refusal did not violate
the Fourteenth Amendment because the requirement for
applicants for admission to the bar to take an oath to
support the Constitution of Illinois could not be met.
In view of his religious affirmations, petitioner could not
agree, freely, to serve in the Illinois militia. Therefore
petitioner was not barred because of his religion but because he could not in good faith take the prescribed oath,
even though he might be willing to do so. We turn to
consideration of the Justices' contentions.
Case or Controversy. The return of the Chief Justice
and the Associate Justices states that the correspondence
and communications of petitioner with the Justices were
not spread upon the records of the Supreme Court of
Illinois and that under the law of Illinois this petition for
admission to the bar does not constitute a case or controversy or a judicial proceeding but is a mere application
for appointment as an officer of the court.5 We of course
accept this authoritative commentary upon the law of
Illinois as establishing for that state the non-judicial
character of an application for admission to the bar.' We
take it that the law of Illinois treats the action of the Su5 Other courts reason to the contrary result.
Ex parte Secombe, 19
How. 9, 15; Ex parte Garland, 4 Wall. 333; Randall v. Brigham, 7
Wall. 523, 535; In the Matter of Cooper, 22 N. Y. 67; Ex parte
Cashin, 128 Miss. 224, 232, 90 So. 850.
6Illinois considers that the power and jurisdiction of its Supreme
Court with respect to the admission of attorneys are inherent in the
judiciary under the constitution of the state, which provides, Article
II, for the traditional distribution of the powers of government.
Smith-Hurd Illinois Anno. Statutes, Constitution, p. 394; In re Day,
181 Ill. 73, 82, 54 N. E. 646. Attorneys are officers of the court, answerable to it for their conduct. People v. Peoples Stock Yards State
Bank, 344 Ill. 462, 470, 176 N. E. 901. The act of admission is an exercise of judicial power, id. 470, a judgment, In re Day, at p. 97,

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.

Opininn of the Court.

325 U. S.

preme Court on this petition as a ministerial act which
is performed by virtue of the judicial power, such as the
appointment of a clerk or bailiff or the specification of the
requirements of eligibility or the course of study for applicants for admission to the bar, rather than a judicial
proceeding.
For the purpose of determining whether the action of
the Supreme Court of Illinois in denying Summers' petition for an order for admission to practice law in Illinois
is a judgment in a judicial proceeding which involves a
case or controversy reviewable in this Court under Article
III, § 2, Cl. 1, of the Constitution of the United States,"
we must for ourselves appraise the circumstances of the
refusal. Nashville, C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Wallace, 288
U. S. 249, 259. Cf. Bridges v. California,314 U. S. 252,
259-60; Nixon v. Condon,286 U. S. 73, 88; FirstNational
Bank v. Hartford, 273 U. S. 548, 552; Truax v. Corrigan,
257 U. S. 312, 324.
A case arises, within the meaning of the Constitution,
when any question respecting the Constitution, treaties
even though it is not considered a judicial proceeding. In the exercise of its judicial power over the bar, the Supreme Court of Illinois has adopted rules for admission to practice before the courts

of that state which permit the admission by the Supreme Court after
satisfactory examination by the Board of Law Examiners which

includes a certification by a Committee on Character and Fitness as
to the applicant's character and moral fitness. Illinois Revised Statutes 1943, c. 110, § 259.58.
.1Constitution, Art. III, § 2, el. 1: "The judicial Power shall extend
to all Cases, in Law and Equity, arising under this Constitution, the
Laws of the United States, and Treaties made, or which shall be
made, under their Authority;-to all Cases affecting Ambassadors, other

public Ministers and Consuls;-to all Cases of admiralty and maritime Jurisdiction;-to Controversies to which the United States shall
be a Party;-to Controversies between two or more States;-between a State and Citizens of another State;-between Citizens of
different States; -between Citizens of the same State claiming Lands
under grants of different States, and between a State, or the Citizens
thereof, and foreign States, Citizens or Subjects."

IN RE SUMMERS.
561

Opinion of the Court.

or laws of the United States has assumed "such a form that
the judicial power is capable of acting on it." Osborn v.
Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 819. The Court was then considering the power of the bank to sue in the federal courts. A
declaration on rights as they stand must be sought, not
on rights which may arise in the future, Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line, 211 U.. S. 210, 226, and there must be
an actual controversy over an issue, not a desire for an
abstract declaration of the law. Muskrat v. UnitedStates,
219 U. S. 346, 361; Fairchild v. Hughes, 258 U. S. 126,
129. The form of the proceeding is not significant. It is
the nature and effect which is controlling. Nashville, C.
& St. L. R. Co. v. Wallace, 288 U. S. 249, 259.
The brief for the Justices raises the question as to who
are the adversary parties. The petition in the state court
was entitled, "Clyde Wilson Summers, Petitioner, v. Committee on Character and Fitness for Third Appellate District, Respondent." The prayer sought relief against
those named as respondents. The record does not show
that'any process issued or that any appearance was made.
Our rule on the petition for certiorari required the Supreme Court of Illinois to show cause why a record should
not be certified and the writ of certiorari granted. The return was by the Justices, not by the Court. The Supreme
Court of Illinois, however, concluded that the "report of
the Committee on Character and Fitness should be sustained." Thus it considered the petition on its merits.
While no entry was placed by the Clerk in the file, on a
docket, or in a judgment roll, the Court took cognizance
of the petition and passed an order which is validated by
the signature of the presiding officer.' Where relief is
thus sought in a state court against the action of a corns The act of adjudging to which we have referred is contained in a
letter addressed to petitioner, which reads as follows:
"Your petition to be admitted to the bar, notwithstanding the unfavorable report of the Committee on Character and Fitness for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

mittee, appointed to advise the court, and the court takes
cognizance of the complaint without requiring the appearance of the committee or its members, we think the consideration of the petition by the Supreme Court, the body
which has authority itself by its own act to give the relief
sought, makes the proceeding adversary in the sense of a
true case or controversy.
A claim of a present right to admission to the bar of a
state and a denial of that right is a controversy. When the
claim is made in a state court and a denial of the right is
Third Appellate Court District, has received the consideration of the
Court.
"I am directed to advise you that the Court is of the opinion that
the report of the Committee on Character and Fitness should be
sustained.
"Yours very truly, June C. Smith, Chief Justice."
The letter was certified by the Clerk of the Supreme Court of Illinois under its seal as "filed in this office in a certain cause
entitled in this Court. Non Record No. 462. In Re Clyde Wilson
Summers."
Later another letter was written in regard to the admission which
reads as follows:
"March 22, 1944.
"Mr. Francis Heisler, Attorney at Law, 77 West Washington Street,
"Suite 1324, Chicago 2, Illinois.
"In re: Clyde Wilson Summers.
"Dear Sir:
"Your petition on behalf of Clyde Wilson Summers to reconsider the
prior action of the Court sustaining the report of the Committee on
Character and Fitness for the Third Appellate Court District, has had
the consideration of the Court.
"I am directed to advise you that the Court declines to further consider its former actinn in this matter.
"Yours very truly, June C. Smith, Chief Justice."
By stipulation of petitioner and the Justices, the Clerk prepared a
supplemental record in this cause which includes the following: (1)
a transcript of the proceedings before the Character Committee; (2)
the letter of March 22, 1944; (3) a certificate that the transcript is
the original and the letter a document of the Supreme Court of
Illinoia.

IN RE SUMMERS.
561

Opinion of the Court.

made by judicial order, it is a case which may be reviewed
under Article III of the Constitution when federal questions are raised and proper steps taken to that end, in this
Court.'
DisqualificationUnder Illinois Constitution. The Justices justify their refusal to admit petitioner to practice
before the courts of Illinois on the ground of petitioner's

inability to take in good. faith the required oath to support
the Constitution of Illinois. His inability to take such an
oath, the Justices submit, shows that the Committee on
Character and Fitness properly refused to certify to his
moral character and moral fitness to be an officer of the
Court, charged with the administration of justice under
the Illinois law. His good citizenship, they think, judged
by the standards required for practicing law in Illinois, is
not satisfactorily showh.10 A conscientious belief in non9 In Bradwell v. State, 16 Wall. 130, this Court took cognizance of a
writ of error to an order of the Supreme Court of Illinois which denied
a motion of Mrs. Bradwell. for admission to the bar of Illinois. The
proceeding was entitled by the Supreme Court of Illinois, "In the
matter of the application of Mrs. Myra Bradwell for a license to practice as an attorney-at-law." There was an opinion. A writ of error
under the Illinois title was issued to bring up the case. The objection
to Mrs. Bradwell's admission was on the ground of her sex. As no
question was raised as to the jurisdiction of this Court under Article
III of the Constitution, the case is of little, if any, value as a precedent
on that point. Arant v. Lane, 245 U. S. 166, 170; United States v.
More, 3 Cranch 159, 172.
10 Section IX (2) of the Rules for Admission to the Bar reads as
follows:
"Before admissio4 to the Bar, each applicant shall be passed upon
by the Committee in his district as to his character and inoral fitness.
He shall furnish the Committee with an affidavit in such form as the
Board of Law Examiners shall prescribe concerning his history and
environments, together with the affidavits of at least three reputable
persons personally acquainted with him residing in the county in
which the applicant resides, each testifying that the applicant is
known to the affiant to be of good moral character and general fitness
to practice law, setting forth in detail the facts upon which such

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

violence to the extent that the believer will not use force
to prevent wrong, no matter how aggravated, and so cannot swear in good faith to support the Illinois Constitution, the Justices contend, must disqualify such a believer
for admission.
Petitioner appraises the denial of admission from the
viewpoint of a religionist. He said in his petition:
"The so-called 'misconduct' for which petitioner could
be reproached for is his taking the New Testament too
seriously. Instead of merely reading or preaching the
Sermon on the Mount, he tries to practice it. The only
fault of the petitioner consists in his attempt to act as a
good Christian in accordance with his interpretation of
the Bible, and according to the dictates of his conscience.
We respectfully submit that the profession of law does
not shut its gates to persons who have qualified in all other
respects even when they follow in the footsteps of that
Great Teacher of mankind who delivered the Sermon on
the Mount. We respectfully submit that under our Constitutional guarantees even good Christians who have met
all the requirements for the admission to the bar may be
admitted to practice law."
Thus a court created t o administer the laws of Illinois
as it understands them, and charged particularly with the
protection of justice in the courts of Illinois through
supervision of admissions to the bar, found itself faced
with the dilemma of excluding an applicant whom it
deemed disqualified for the responsibilities of the profession of law or of admitting the applicant because of its
deeply rooted tradition in freedom of belief. The responsibility for choice as to the personnel of its bar rests
knowledge is based. Each applicant shall appear before the Committee of his district or some member thereof and shall furnish the
Committee such evidence of his moral character and good citizenship
as in the opinion of the Committee would justify his admission to the
Bar." Ill. Rev. Stat. 1943, c.110, .259.5-

IN RE SUMMERS.
561

Opinion of the Court.

with Illinois. Only a decision which violated a federal
right secured by the Fourteenth Amendment would
authorize our intervention. It is said that the action of
the Supreme Court of Illinois is contrary to the principles
of that portion of the First Amendment which guarantees
the free exercise of religion. Of course, under our Constitutional system, men could not be excluded from the practice of law, or indeed from following any other calling,
simply because they belong to any of our religious groups,
whether Protestant, Catholic, Quaker or Jewish, assuming
it conceivable that any state of the Union would draw
such a religious line. We cannot say that any such purpose to discriminate motivated the action of the Illinois
Supreme Court.
The sincerity of petitioner's beliefs are not questioned.
He has been classified as a conscientious objector under
the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940, 54 Stat.
885, as amended. Without detailing petitioner's testimony before the Committee or his subsequent statements
in the record, his position may be compendiously stated
as one of non-violence. Petitioner will not serve in the
armed forces. While he recognizes a difference between
tfie military and police forces, he would not act in the
latter to coerce threatened violations. Petitioner would
not use force to meet aggressions against himself or his
family, no matter how aggravated or whether or not carrying a danger of bodily harm to himself or others. He is a
believer in passive resistance. We need to consider only
his attitude toward service in the armed forces.
Illinois has constitutional provisions which require
service in the militia in time of war of men of petitioner's
age group. 1 The return of the Justices alleges that petitioner has not made any showing that he would serve not" "The militia of the state of Illinois shall consist of all able-bodied
male persons resident in the state, between the ages of eighteen and
forty-five, except such persons as now are, or hereafter may be, ex-

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

withstanding his conscientious objections. This allegation is undenied in the record and unchallenged by brief.
We accept the allegation as to unwillingness to serve in
the militia as established. While under § 5 (g) of the
Selective Training and Service Act, supra, conscientious
objectors to participation in war in any form now are
permitted to do non-war work of national importance,
this is by grace of Congressional recognition of their beliefs.
Hamilton v. Regents, 293 U. S. 245, 261-65, and cases
cited. The Act may be repealed. No similar exemption
during war exists under Illinois law. The Hamilton decision was made in 1934, in time of peace." This decision
as to the powers of the state government over military
training is applicable to the power of Illinois to require
military service from her citizens.
The United States does not admit to citizenship the
alien who refuses to pledge military service. United States
v. Schwimmer, 279 U. S. 644; United States v. Macintosh,
283 U. S. 605. Even the powerful dissents which emphasized the deep cleavage in this Court on the issue of adempted by the laws of the United States, or of this state." (Constitution of Illinois, Art. XII, § 1, Ill. Rev. Stat. 1943.)
"No person having conscientious scruples against bearing arms shall
be compelled to do militia duty in time of peace: Provided, such
person shall pay an equivalent for such exemption." (Constitution
of Illinois, Art. XII, § 6, Ill. Rev. Stat. 1943.)
12 California imposed instruction in military tactics on male students in the University of California. Some students sought exemption from this training on the ground that such training was inconsistent with their religious beliefs. This Court denied them any such
exemption based on the due process clause of the federal Constitution.
The opinion states, at pp. 262-63:
"Government, federal and state, each in its own sphere owes a duty
to the people within its jurisdiction to preserve itself in adequate
strength to maintain peace and order and to assure the just enforcement of law. And every citizen owes the reciprocal duty, according
to his capacity, to support and defend government against all enemies.
Selective Draft Law Cases, supra, p. 378. Minor v. Happersett, 21
Wall. 162, 166."

IN RE SUMMERS.
561

573

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

mission to citizenship did not challenge the right of Congress to require military service from every able-bodied
man. 279 U. S. at 653; 283 U. S. at 632. It is impossible
for us to conclude that the insistence of Illinois that an
officer who is charged with the administration of justice
must take an oath to support the Constitution of Illinois
and Illinois' interpretation of that oath to require a willingness to perform military service violates the principles
of religious freedom which the Fourteenth Amendment
secures against state action, when a like interpretation of
a similar oath as to the Federal Constitution bars an alien
from national citizenship.'
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE BLAcK, dissenting.

The State of Illinois has denied the petitioner the right
to practice his profession and to earn his living as a lawyer.
It has denied him a license on the ground that his present
religious beliefs disqualify him for membership in the legal
profession. The question is, therefore., whether a state
which requires a license as a prerequisite to practicing law
can deny an applicant a license solely because of his deeplyrooted religious convictions. The fact that petitioner
measures up to every other requirement for admission to
is United States v. Macintosh, 283 U. S. 605, 625-26:
"If the attitude of this claimant, as shown by his statements and
the inferences properly to be deduced from them, be held immaterial
to the question of his fitness for admission to citizenship, where shall
the line be drawn? Upon what ground of distinction may we hereafter
reject another applicant who shall express his willingness to respect.
any particular principle of the Constitution or obey any future
statute only upon the condition that he shall entertain the opinion
that it is morally justified? The applicant's attitude, in effect, is a
refusal to take the oath of allegiance except in an altered form. The
qualifications upon which he insists, it'is true, are made by parol and
not by way of written amendment to the oath; but the substance is
the same."

574.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

the Bar set by the State demonstrates beyond doubt that
the only reason for his rejection was his religious beliefs.
The State does not deny that petitioner possesses the
following qualifications:
He is honest, moral, and intelligent, has had a college
and a law school education. He has been a law professor
and fully measures up to the high standards of legal knowledge Illinois has set as a prerequisite to admission to practice law in that State. He has never been convicted for, or
charged with, a violation of law. That he would serve his
clients faithfully and efficiently if admitted to practice is
not denied. His ideals of what a lawyer should be indicate
that his activities would not reflect discredit upon the bar,
that he would strive to make the legal system a more
effective instrument of justice. Because he thinks that
"Lawsuits do not bring love and brotherliness, they just
create antagonisms," he would, as a lawyer, exert himself
to adjust controversies out of court, but would vigorously
press his client's cause in court if efforts to adjust failed.
Explaining to his examiners some of the reasons why he
wanted to be a lawyer, he told them: "I think there is a
lot of work to be done in the law. .

.

. I think the law has

a place to see to it that every man has a chance to eat and a
chance to live equally. I think the law has a place where
people can go and get justice done for themselves without
paying too much, for the bulk of people that are too poor."
No one contends that such a vision of the law in action
is either illegal or reprehensible.
The petitioner's disqualifying religious beliefs stem
chiefly from a study of the New Testament and a literal
acceptance of the teachings of Christ as he understands
them. Those beliefs are these:
He is opposed to the use of force for either offensive
or defensive purposes. The taking of human life under
any circumstances he believes to be against the Law of
God and contrary to the best interests of man. He would
if he could, he told his examiners, obey to the letter

IN RE SUMMERS.
561

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

these precepts of Christ: "Love your Enemies; Do
good to those that hate you; Even though your enemy
strike you on your right cheek, turn to him your left cheek

also." 1 The record of his evidence before us bears convincing marks of the deep sincerity of his convictions, and
counsel for Illinois with commendable candor does not
question the genuineness of his professions.
I cannot believe that a state statute would be consistent
with our constitutional guarantee of freedom of religion
if it specifically denied the right to practice law to all members of one of our great religious groups, Protestant,
Catholic, or Jewish. Yet the Quakers have had a long and
honorable part in the growth of our nation, and an amicus
curiae brief filed in their behalf informs us that under the
test applied to this petitioner, not one of them if true to
the tenets of their faith could qualify for the bar in Illinois. And it is obvious that the same disqualification
would exist as to every conscientious objector to the use
of force, even though the Congress of the United States
should continue its practice of absolving them from military service. The conclusion seems to me inescapable
that if Illinois can bar this petitioner from the practice
of law it can bar every person from every public occupation solely because he believes in non-resistance rather
than in force. For a lawyer js no more subject to call for
military duty than a plumber, a highway worker, a Secretary of State, or a prison chaplain.
The quotations are the petitioner's paraphrase of the King James
translation of Verses 38, 39 and 44 of St. Matthew, Chapter 5, which
read as follows:
"Ye have heard that it hath been said, An eye for an eye, and a
tooth for a tooth:
"But I say unto you, That ye resist not evil: but whosoever shall
smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also ...
"But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you,
do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully
use you, and persecute you . . ."

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLAcK,

J., dissehting.

325 U. S.

It may be, as many people think, that Christ's Gospel
of love and submission is not suited to a world in which
men still fight and kill one another. But I am not ready
to say that a mere profession of belief in that Gospel is a
sufficient reason to keep otherwise well qualified men out
of the legal profession, or to drive law-abiding lawyers
of that belief out of the profession, which would be the
next logical development.
Nor am I willing to say that such a belief can be penalized through the circuitous method of prescribing an oath,
and then barring an applicant on the ground that his present belief might later prompt him to do or refrain from
doing something that might violate that oath. Test oaths,
designed to impose civil disabilities upon men for their
beliefs rather than for unlawful conduct, were an abomination to the founders of this nation. This feeling was
made manifest in Article VI of the Constitution which
provides that "no religious test shall ever be required as a
Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the
United States." Cummings v. Missouri, 4 Wall. 277; Ex
parte Garland,4 Wall. 333.
The state's denial of petitioner's application to practice
law resolves itself into a holding that it is lawfully required
that all lawyers take an oath to support the state constitution and that petitioner's religious convictions against
the use of force make it impossible for him to observe that
oath. The petitioner denies this and is willing to take
the oath. The particular constitutional provision involved authorizes the legislature to draft Illinois citizens
from 18 to 45 years of age for militia service. It can be
assumed that the State of Illinois has the constitutional
power to draft conscientious objectors for war duty and
to punish them for a refusal to serve as soldiers,-powers
which this Court held the United States possesses in
United States v. Schwimmer, 279 U. S. 644, and United
States v. Macintosh,283 U. S. 605. But that is not to say

IN RE SUMMERS.
561

BLACK, J., dissentiQg.

that Illinois could constitutionally use the test oath it did
in this case. In the Schwimmer and Macintosh cases
aliens were barred from naturalization because their then
religious beliefs would bar them from bearing arms to defend the country. Dissents in both cases rested in part
on the premise that religious tests are incompatible with
our constitutional guarantee of freedom of thought and
religion. In the Schwimmer case dissent, Mr. Justice
Holmes said that "if there is any principle of the Constitution that more imperatively calls for attachment than
any other it is the principle of free thought-not free
thought for those who agree with us but freedom for the
thought that we hate. I think that we should adhere to
that principle with regard to admission into, as well as to
life within this country." pp. 654-655. In the Macintosh case dissent, Mr. Chief Justice Hughes said, "To
conclude that the general oath of office is to be interpreted
as disregarding the religious scruples of these citizens and
as disqualifying them for office because they could not
take the oath with such an interpretation would, I believe,
be generally regarded as contrary not only to the specific
intent ofrthe Congress but as repugnant to the fundamental principle of representative government." p. 632. I
agree with the constitutional philosophy underlying the
dissents of Mr. Justice Holmes and Mr. Chief Justice
Hughes.
The Illinois Constitution itself prohibits the draft of
conscientious objectors except in time of war and also
excepts from militia duty persons who are "exempted by
the-laws of the United States." It has not drafted men
into the militia since 1864, and if it ever should again,
no one can say that it will not, as has the Congress of the
United States, exempt men who honestly entertain the
views that this petitioner does. Thus the probability that
Illinois would ever call the petitioner to serve in a war
has little more reality than an imaginary quantity in
mathematics.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.,
Statement of the Case.

325 U. S.

I cannot agree that a state can lawfully bar from a
semi-public position a well-qualified man of good character solely because he entertains a religious belief which
might prompt him at some time in the future to violate
a law which has not yet been and may never be enacted.
Under our Constitution men are punished for what they
do or fail to do and not for what they think and believe.
Freedom to think, to believe, and to worship, has too
exalted a position in our country to be penalized on such
an illusory basis. West Virginia Board of Education v.
Barnette, 319 U. S. 624, 643-646.
I would reverse the decision of the State Supreme Court.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, and MR.
JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concur in this opinion.

10 EAST 40TH STREET BUILDING, INC. v.

CALLUS ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 820.

Argued April 6, 1945.-Decided June 11, 1945.

1. Maintenance employees of a typical metropolitan office building,
operated as an independent enterprise, which is used and to be
used for offices by every variety of tenants, including some producers of goods for commerce, held not to have such a close and
immediate tie with the process of production as to be deemed
engaged in an "occupation necessary to the production" of goods
for commerce, within the meaning of § 3 (j) of the Fair Labor
Standards Act, and therefore not covered by the Act. P. 583.
2. Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S. 517, Borden Co. v. Borella,
post, p. 679, and this case differentiated. P. 580.
146 F. 2d 438, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 324 U. S. 833, to review the reversal of a
judgment, 51 F. Supp. 528, dismissing the complaint in
a suit under § 16 (b) of the Fair Labor Standards Act
to recover amounts alleged to be due for overtime.

