AMBASSADOR, INC. v.. UNITED STATES. 317
Counsel for Parties.

AMBASSADOR, INC. ET AL. v. UNITED STATES Err AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 446. Argued March 9, 12, 1945.-Decided May 21, 1945.
1. The District Court properly enjoined the appellant proprietors of
hotels from collecting, in violation of a, regulation filed by the telephone companies with the Federal Communications Commission
pursuant to the Communications Act, surcharges from guests who
make interstate or foreign long distance telephone calls or receive
such calls "collect." Pp. 324, 326.
2. Questions of the justness or reasonableness of the regulation must
be addressed in the first instance to the Commission. P. 325.
3. In the circumstances of this case, it was within the discretion of
the District Court to enjoin the hotels, though it did not enjoin the
telephone companies. P. 325.
4. It is unnecessary here to determine whether the hotels were
"agents" of the telephone company or "subscribers." Whatever
the relationship, it was one which the statute contemplates shall
be governed by reasonable regulations initiated by the telephone
company but subject to the approval and review of the Commission.
P. 326.
Affirmed.
DIRECT

appeal under the Expediting Act from a decree

sustaining the validity of a tariff filed with the Federal
Communications Commission and enjoining its violation
by the defendant hotels.
Mr. Parker McCollester, with whom Messrs. George
deForest Lord and Joseph W. Wyatt were on the brief, for
appellants.
Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Messrs. Chester T.
Lane, Charles R. Denny, Harry M. Plotkin and Joseph
M. Kittner were on the brief, for the United States; and
Mr. T. Brooke Price,with whom Messrs. Spencer Gordon,
John T. Quisenberry, John H. Ray and R. A. Van Orsdel
were on the brief, for the American Telephone & Tele-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

graph Co. and the Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co.,
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE JACxsoNv delivered the Opinion of the Court.
This action was instituted at request of the Federal
Communications Commission in the District Court of the
United States for the District of Columbia. The Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co., which is engaged in rendering telephone service in the District of Columbia, and
the American Telephone & Telegraph Co. were made
defendants, as also were the appellants, comprising the proprietors of twenty-seven hote's in the. District of Columbia. The complaint asks and the court below has granted
an injunction which forbids the hotels to make charges
against their guests in connection with any interstate: or
foreign message toll service to or from their premises,
other than the toll charges of the telephone companies and
applicable federal taxes. The prohibition is based on a
provision to that effect in the tariff filed by the telephone
companies. Upon the trial, evidence was limited by stipulation to the facts about the ShorehamHotel, accepted as
typical of all defendants.
Telephone service is available to patrons of the hotel
without a charge by the hotel. In or near the lobbies,
telephone booths have direct connection with telephone
company central offices. Calls can there be made without
involving the services of the hotel personnel and at the
usual tariff rates of the telephone company paid through
its coin boxes.
However, modern hotel standards require that telephone
service also be made available in the rooms. Equipment
for this purpose is specified by the hotel but is installed
and owned by the telephone company. The hotel pays
a monthly charge for its use, and its operation is at the
hotel's expense. The operating cost is substantial, rentals
of the Shoreham in 1943 being $8,680.10 and payrolls for
operation amounting to $21,895.62.

AMBASSADOR, INC. v. UNITED STATES. 319
317

Opinion of the Court.

Typical equipment consists of a private branch exchange, known as a PBX board, connected with a number
of outside or trunk lines and also with extension lines to
each serviced room, and other items. This equipment
permits calls for various kinds of room service, communication between guests, and calls from station to station
within the hotel for which no use of other lines of the telephone company is necessary. The same switchboard and
its hotel-employed operators also handle both incoming
and outgoing calls for guests, including many long distance
messages.
So far as the telephone company is concerned, the toll
message coming to its central office from the hotel switchboard is handled much as a similar message from a residence or business station. Within the hotel, however,
room telephone service necessitates additional labor as
well as use of the cNuipment. When a call is made from
the station in a room, it is placed with the switchboard
operator employed by the hotel, and she in turn places the
call with the telephone company's long distance operator.
It is customary also to render services described as secretarial. Incoming messages may be received during the
guest's absence and memoranda of them are made for and
delivered to him. Outgoing messages may be transmitted
for the guest. Information as to his whereabouts may be
left with the operator for communication to callers; he
may arrange to be reached at other locations than his
.room; he may arrange to have telephone service suspended
for a period; incoming calls may be limited to those from
designated persons, and various other services helpful to
comfortable living are supplied by those in charge of the
interior telephone system.
Each long distance call placed through the hotel's
switchboard is charged by the telephone company to the
hotel, not to the guest. The hotel pays the charge and is
reimbursed, less credit losses, by collections from the guest.

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

The reimbursement item is separately-stated on the guest's
bill and is not itself involved in this controversy.
The hotel also seeks to recoup the cost of its service,
including equipment rentals, and perhaps some margin of
profit, by a service charge to the guests who make long
distance calls from their rooms. This charge varies in different hotels but this typical case shows charges of ten
cents for toll calls where the telephone tariff is one dollar
or less, ten percent of the telephone tariff where the charge
is more than one dollar, with a maximum of three dollars
per call. This service charge appears on the guest's bill as
a separate item, but is stated, like the reimbursement
charge, as "Long distance," abbreviated to "LDIST".
In January 1942, a proceeding was instituted by the
Federal Communications Commission for the purpose of
determining whether the charges collected by hotels, apartment houses and clubs in the District of Columbia in connection with interstate and foreign telephone communication were subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission
under the Communications Act and what tariffs, if any,
should be filed with the Commission showing such charges.
No such tariffs were on file with the Commission at the
time the proceeding was instituted.
The Commission, December 10, 1943, found that it does
have jurisdiction under the Communications Act over the
charges collected by hotels and others and ruled that, if
such charges are to be collected at all, they must be shown
on tariffs on file with the Commission. It thought that the
hotel should be regarded as the agent of the telephone
companies. It issued an order directing thetwo telephone
companies either to file appropriate tiriffs showing charges
collected by the hotels in connection with interstate and
foreign telephone communications or to file an appropriate tariff regulation containing a specific provision with
respect to conditions under which such interstate and foreign service would be furnished to hotels, apartment
houses and clubs.

AMBASSADOR, INC. v. UNITED STATES. 321
317

Opinion of the Court.

Confronted with these alternatives, The Chesapeake &
Potomac Telephone Company filed a tariff provision in
which the American Telephone & Telegraph Company
concurred, which reads as follows:
"Message toll telephone service is furnished to hotels,
apartment houses and clubs upon the condition that use of
the service by guests, tenants, members, or others shall
not be made subject to any charge by any hotel, apartment
house or club in addition to the message toll charges of the
Telephone Company as set forth in this tariff."
This tariff provision became effective by its terms February 15, 1944. Four days later, this suit was instituted to
enjoin the hotels from collecting charges made in violation of the tariff provision, and to enjoin the telephone
companies from furnishing such service to these hotels or
others which continued to make charges.
The District Court sustained the validity of the tariff.'
It regarded the hotels as subscribers rather than as agents
of the telephone companies. It held that the tariff was
violated by collection of surcharges from guests who make
interstate or foreign long distance telephone calls or receive such calls "collect." The court did not pass upon
the justness or reasonableness of the tariff, being of opinion, that such questions were in the first instance to be
submitted to and determined by the Commission in appropriate proceedings. . An injunction issued against the
hotels but not against the telephone companies, the court,
however, retaining jurisdiction over the proceedings as
to all defendants for the purpose of issuing such further
orders as might be necessary to effectuate its decision.
Direct appeal was taken by the hotel defendants to this
Court.2
'The opinion was rendered orally and is not reported.
2
Pursuant to § 2 of Expediting Act, 32 Stat. 823; 36 Stat. 1167;
15 U. S. C. § 29; 49 U. S. C. § 45; and Communications Act of 1934,
48 Stat. 1093, 47 U. S. C. § 401 (d). Also § 238 (1) of Judicial Code
as amended, 43 Stat. 938, 28 U. S. C. § 345 (1).

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

It has long been recognized that if communications
charges are to correspond even roughly to the cost of ren-

dering the service, the use to which telephone installations
may be put by subscribers must be subject to some kind
of classification and regulation which will conform the
actual service to that contracted for. Familiar examples
are the classification of residence as against business service with a requirement that the subscriber confine his use
of the instruments accordingly. Of course, the subscriber
who installs a private branch exchange with multiple
trunk lines and many extensions has obviously contracted
for a class of service different from one whose installation
consists of a single station. One of the problems incident
to the service of a subscriber who takes facilities greatly in
excess of his own needs in order to accommodate others is
to fix upon what terms he may extend the use of telephone facilities to others. This is an aspect of the problem
of resale of utility service which is not confined to the

telephone business.'
3 Cf. Re New York Telephone Co., 26 P. U. R. (N. S.) 311 (N. Y.

1938), 30 P. U. R. (N. S.) 350 (N. Y. 1939); People ex rel. Public
Service Commission v. New York Telephone Co., 262 App. Div. 440,
29 N. Y. S. 2d 513 (1941), aff'd without opinion, 287 N. Y. 803, 40
N. E. 2d 1020; Hotel Pfister v. Wisconsin Telephone Co., 203 Wis. 20,
233 N. W. 617 (1930); Jefferson Hotel Co. v. Southwestern Bell Telephone Co., 15 P. U. R. (N. S.) 265 (Mo. 1936); Re Hotel Marion Co.,
P. U. R. 1920 D, 466 (Ark. 1920); Connolly v. Burleson, P. U. R. 1920
C, 243 (N. Y. 1920); Re Hotel Telephone Service and Rates, P. U. R.
1919 A, 190 (Mass. 1918); Hotel Sherman Co. v. Chicago Telephone
Co., P. U. R. 1915 F, 776 (Ill. 1915); 1015 Chestnut Street Corp. v.
Bell Telephone Co., P. U. R. 1931 A, 19, 7 P. U. R. (N. S.) 184 (1930,
1934); Budd v. Southwestern Bell Telephone Co., 28 P. U. R. (N. S.)
235 (Mo. 1939).
Remetering of electric energy creates similar problems of regulation,
often dealt with by tariff prohibition of remetering. See Lewis v.
Potomac Electric Power Co., 64 F. 2d 701 (App. D. C. 1933); Karrick
v. Potomac Electric Power Co., P. U. R. 1932 C, 40 (D. C. Sup. Ct.
1931); FloridaPower & Light Co. v. Floridaex rel. Malcolm, 107 Fla.

AMBASSADOR, INC. v. UNITED STATES.
317

323

Opinion of the Court.

The Communications Act of 1934 recognizes that tariffs
filed by communications companies may cbntain regulations binding on subscribers as to the permissible use of
the. rented communications facilities. The supervisory
power of the Commission is not limited to rates and to
services, but the formula oft repeated in the Act to describe the Commission's range of power over the regulated
companies is "charges, practices, classifications, and regulations for and in connection with such communication
service." 48 Stat. 1070, 47 U. S. C. § 201 (b). It is in all
of these matters that the Act requires the filed tariffs
to be "just and reasonable" and declares that otherwise
they are unlawful.' By none of these devices may the
companies perpetrate an unjust or unreasonable discrimination or preference.' All of these must be filed with the
Commission in the form it prescribes, may not be changed
except after due notice, and must be observed in the conduct of its business by the company.' These provisions
clearly authorize the companies to promulgate rules binding on PBX subscribers as to the terms upon which the
use of the facilities may be extended to others not themselves subscribers.
Of course, such authority is not unlimited. The telephone companies may'not, in the guise of regulating the
communications service, also regulate the hotel or apartment house or any other business. But where a part of
317, 144 So. 657 (1932); Sixty-seven South Munn v. Board of Public
Utility Commissioners, 106 N. J. Law 45, 147 A. 735 (Sup. Ct. 1929),
aff'd 107 N. J. Law 386, 152 A. 920 (Court of Errors and Appeals
1930), cert. denied, 283 U. S. 828; Public Service Commission v. J. &
J.Rogers Co., 184 App. Div. 705, 172 N. Y. S. 498 (N. Y. 1918);
People ex rel. N. Y. Edison Co. v. Public Service Commission, 191
App. Div. 237, 181 N. Y. S. 259 (N. Y. 1920), aff'd, 230 N. Y. 574,,130
N. E. 899 (1920).
- 47 U. S. C. § 201.
547 U. S. C. § 202.
6 47 U. S. C. § 203 (a), (b), (c).

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

the subscriber's business consists of retailing to patrons
a service dependent on its own contract for utility service,
the regulation will necessarily affect, to that extent, its
third party relationships. Such a regulation is not invalid per se merely because, as to the communications
service and its incidents, it places limitation upon th6
subscriber as to the terms upon which he may invite
others to communicate through such facilities.
It is urged, however, that the regulation in question is
unlawful because it is unreasonable. It is said that it
invades the relationship between hotel and guest exces-.
sively, and denies to the hotel the right reasonably to
recoup its cost and to profit by the services it renders.
But we agree with the District Court that where the claim
of unlawfulness of a regulation is grounded in lack of
reasonableness, the objection must be addressed to the
Commission and not as an original matter brought to the
court. We think that the Act confers jurisdiction upon
the Commission to hear appellants' grievances against the
substance of this regulation. Indeed, appellants inform
us that the American Hotel Association, on behalf of its
members, including the appealing hotels, has filed a formal
complaint with the Commission alleging that the new
provision of the tariff schedule was unreasonable, discriminatory and unlawful, and asking for investigation
and, at the same time, asserting that the tariff was illegal.
Action on that complaint has been held in abeyance by
the Commission pending the final detision on the jurisdictional question in this suit.
It is clear that the charges being rhade in this-ease violate the regulation. The charges made are not based on
the service rendered by the hotel but vary in accordance
with the toll charge made by the telephone company for
communications services. So far as appears, the service
rendered by the hotel in handling a guest's toll call from
Washington to Baltimore is substantially the same as for

AMBASSADOR, INC. v. UNITED STATES.

325

Opinion of the Court.

317

a call to San Francisco. But, for like service, the charge
varies with the amount of the telephone tariff for the
communication. The guest's charges are so identified
with the communications service that they are brought
within the prohibitions of this regulation.
Since the regulation, apart from questions of reasonableness which must be presented to the Commission, is
a valid regulation of the subscriber's use of the telephone
facilities involved, a departure from the regulation is
forbidden by the Act and the prosecution of an action to
restrain a violation is authorized.7 When an action for
enforcement is instituted in any District Court, the Act
expressly provides that it shall be lawful "to include as
parties, in addition to the carrier, all persons interested in
or affected by the charge, regulation, or practice under
consideration," and decrees may be made against such
parties in the same manner and to the same extent as authorized with respect to carriers.8 One can hardly gainsay the Government's assertion that the appellants here
are persons interested in and affected by the regulation in
question and, therefore, are proper parties defendant in
the action and injunction could properly issue against
them.
It is urged, however, that inasmuch as the Court did not
enjoin the telephone companies, the hotels should not be
enjoined. Four dayS after the effective date of this regulation, the hotels had indicated no intention to comply
with it although they had had due notice. It was well
within the discretion of the trial court to conclude that
this justified an injunction. Four days of default by the
subscriber, however, might not be regarded as requiring
an injunction which would compel the telephone companies to cut off service on which many persons rely. We
are unable to see that the hotels have been prejudiced by
747 U. S. C. § 401.
847

U. S. C. § 411.

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

the failure to enjoin the telephone companies or are in a
position to complain of the omission of what would have
been an additional hardship to themselves.
Much has been said in argument about the theory of
the relationship between the hotel and the telephone company and the discrepancy between the view of the Commission that the contract created an agency and that of
the District Judge who said that the evidence-fails to
sho that the hotels are agents of the telephone company,
and held that "the hotels are subscribers." We do not
think it is necessary in determining the application of a
regulatory statute to attempt to fit the regulated relationship into some common-law category. It is sufficient
to say that the relation is one which the statute contemplates shall be governed by reasonable regulations
initiated by the telephone company but subject to the
approval and review of the Federal Communications
Commission.
Without prejudice to defermination by the Commission
of any of the questions, raised in this case, we hold that
the injunction was properly issued and the. judgment
below is
Affirmed.
and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took
part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

no

