ALABAMA v. UNITED STATES.
507

Statement of the Case.

Unjust or UnreasonableIntrastate Fares. It may be
that the intrastate fares prescribed by the Commission
are unjust or unreasonable in certain items. The report
of the Commission provides a remedy for such a situation:
"The foregoing findings are without prejudice to the
right of the authorities of the affected States, or of any
interested party, to apply for modification thereof as to
any specific intrastate fare on theground that such fare
is not related to interstate fares in such a way as to contravene the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act."
258 I. C. C. at p. 155.
The remedy for a readjustment of the basic interstate
fare or for a separation of the levels of interstate and intrastate fares is by application to the Commission for reopening of PassengerFares and Surcharges, 214 I. C. C.
174.
We do not consider the other points which are raised
by the appeal.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR.
JUSTICE FRANKFURTER join in this dissent.
ALABAMA ET AL. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
NO. 5 7 4. APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF.KENTUCKY.*
Argued April 24, 1945.-Decided June 11, 1945.
Decided on the authority of North Carolina v. United States, ante,
p. 507.
56 F. Supp. 478, reversed.
APPEALS from a decree of a district court of three judges
denying injunctions and dismissing the complaints in three
suits to enjoin and set aside an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
*Together with No. 592, Davis, Economic Stabilization Director,
by Bowles, Price Administrator,v. United States et al., also on appeal
from the District Court of the United States for the Western District
of Kentucky.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Forman Smith, Assistant Attorney General of Alabama,
with whom William N. McQueen, Acting Attorney General, was on the brief, for the State of Alabama and the
Alabama Public Service Commission; Mr. J. E. Marks,
with whom Eldon S. Dummit, Attorney General of Kentucky, and M. B. Holifield, Assistant Attorney General,
were on the brief, for the Commonwealth of Kentucky
and the Railroad Commission of Kentucky; and Mr. Leon
Jourolmon,Jr. for the State of Tennessee and the Railroad
and Public Utilities Commission of Tennessee, appellants
in No. 574.
Mr. Allen Crenshaw, with whom Messrs. Daniel W.
Knowlton and J. Stanley Payne were on the brief, for the
Interstate Commerce Commission, appellee. Mr. David
F. Cavers, with whom Messrs. Richard H. Field and Malcolm D. Miller were on the brief, for the Economic Stabilization Director and the Price Administrator, appellees in
No. 574 and appellants in No. 592. Mr. Charles Clark,
with whom Messrs. W. L. Grubbs, H. L. Walker and F. W.
Gwathmey were on the brief, for the Alabama Great
Southern Railroad Co. et al., appellees in No. 574.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The States of Alabama, Tennessee and Kentucky filed
a bill in a federal district court seeking to set aside and
enjoin enforcement of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission. The Federal Economic Stabilization
Director, acting through the Price Administrator, was
granted the right to intervene. The Commission's order
directed that intrastate railroad rates in Alabama, Kentucky, Tennessee and North Carolina, be raised to the
level of interstate rates fixed by the Commission.' The
1258 I. C. C. 133. The state 1.65 cents per mile passenger coach
rate was directed to be raised to 2.2 cents per mile. Round trip coach
rates were ordered proportionately raised.

Sleeping and parlor car

intrastate fares in some of the States were Also directed to be
increased.

ALABAMA v. UNITED STATES. "
535

Opinion of the Court.

District Court declined to enjoin enforcement of the order,

56 F. Supp. 478, and the case is here on direct appeal under
ยง 210 of the Judicial Code.
The issues here are substantially the same as in North
Carolinav. United States, ante, p. 507, which involved the
same order of the Commission as it' applied to rates in
the State of North Carolina. The Commission relied
basically on the 1936 rate order, to which we referred
in our opinion in the North Carolina case. Here also
the Commissions of the thre States had held hearings and
determined that the intrastate rates were adequate in
every respect to give the particular railroads involved a
sufficient income to compensate them fully for their services and to enable the railroads adequately and efficiently
to operate in the State. There was evidence before each
of the state Commissions, as there was before the Interstate Commerce Commission, that the railroads were
enjoying an unprecedented prosperity and reaping a tremendous harvest of profits from their railroad operations
in the State. There was evidence from which the Interstate Commerce Commission could have found that the
intrastate passenger rates involved were sufficient to pay
each railroad a substantial profit for each mile it carried
an intrastate passenger. The findings here possess the
same infirmities as those in the North Carolinacase. It
follows that our judgment must be the same.
Because the order of the Commission was not based on
adequate findings supported by evidence, the District
Court should have declined to enforce the Commission's
order. The judgment of the District Court is therefore
Reversed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR.
REED, and MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER dissent for

JUSTICE

the reasons stated in the dissent in North Carolinav. United
States, ante, p. 520.

