212

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

325 U. S.

We conclude that the United States was authorized to
bring this suit, and that the Commission's powers conferred by § 5 of the Webb-Pomerene Act do not preclude
the suit before the Commission has acted. The order of
the district court is therefore
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concurs in this opinion in respect
of this Court's exercise of jurisdiction under § 262 of the
Judicial Code. He dissents from the decision that the
District Court had power to hear the cause in the absence
of an investigation and recommendation by the Federal
Trade Commission.
DE BEERS CONSOLIDATED MINES, LTD. ET AL. V.
UNITED STATES.
NO. 1189. CERTIORARI TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE
UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW
YORK.*

Argued May 2, 1945.-Decided May 21, 1945.
In a civil proceeding brought by the United States against foreign
corporations and individuals, seeking equitable relief upon a charge
that the defendants were engaged in a conspiracy to restrain and
monoixlize commerce of the United States with foreign nations
in gem and industrial diamonds, in violation of §§ 1 and 2 of the
Sherman Act and § 73 of the Wilson Tariff Act, the district court
granted a preliminary injunction restraining the corporate defendants from withdrawing, selling, transferring, or disposing -of
any property belonging to them in the United States, until the
cause finally shall have been determined and the defendants shall
have complied with all orders of the court. Held:
*Together with No. 1190, Societe Internationale Forestiere et
Miniere du Congo et al. v. United States, also on certiorari to the
District Court of the. United States for the Southern District of
New York.

DE BEERS MINES v. UNITED STATES.
212

213

Statement of the Case.

1. The order of the district court granting the preliminary injunction was reviewable here by certiorari under § 262 of the
Judicial Code. P. 217.
(a) If the preliminary injunction here granted, unless set
aside, will stand throughout the course of the trial and for an indefinite period thereafter, and if the order was beyond the powers
conferred upon the court, the case is an appropriate one for the
exercise of jurisdiction by this Court under § 262. United States
Alkali Export Assn. v. United States, ante, p. 196. P. 217.
(b) The order did not grant such relief as could be afforded
by any final injunction, but dealt with matters lying wholly outside
the issues in the case; no decision of the suit on the merits could
redress any injury done by the order; and unless it can be reviewed
under § 262 it can never be corrected if beyond the power of the
trial court. P. 217.
2. The preliminary injunction here issued was not authorized:
by statute or by the usages of equity, and the order granting it
must be reversed. P. 219.
(a) Rule 70 of the Rules of Civil Procedure, which permits
the issue of a writ of attachment or sequestration against the property of a disobedient party to compel satisfaction of a judgment, is
operative only after a judgment is entered. P. 218.
(b) The preliminary injunction here issued was not authorized
by § 4 of the Sherman Act or by § 262 of the Judicial Code. P. 218.
(c) The preliminary injunction here issued deals with a matter
lying wholly outside the issues in the suit; it deals with property
which in no circumstances can be dealt with hr any final injunction
that may be entered. P. 220.
(d) Cases involving interlocutory injunctions granted with
respect to funds or property which would have been the subject of
the provisiqns of final decrees, and cases involving injunctions by
federal courts to restrain interference with their jurisdiction, do not
sustain the preliminary injunction here issued. 'P.220.
(e) The practice in respect of writs of ne exeat is'not analogous. P. 221.
(f) Since under the circumstances the district court is without
jurisdiction to demand security, it is equally without authority to
compel the furnishing of a bond by the seizure of property. P. 222.
Reversed.
CERTIORARI, 324 U. S.839, to review an order of the district court granting a preliminary injunction against de-

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

fendants in a suit brought by the United States to restrain
alleged violations of the Sherman Act and the Wilson
Tariff Act.
Mr. Win. Dwight Whitney, with whom Mr. Robert T.
Swaine was on the brief, for petitioners in No. 1189.
Mr. John M. Harlan, with whom Mr. John E. F. Wood
was on the brief, for petitioners in No. 1190.
Mr. Herbert A. Berman, with whom Assistant Solicitor
General Cox, Assistant Attorney General Berge and Mr.
Edward S. Stimson were on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These cases come before the court on petitions for
certiorari presented pursuant to § 262 of the Judicial
Code.1 Each petition is by several of the defendants in
a single suit pending in the District Court.
Two matters are presented: the propriety of review of
the action below by certiorari, and the alleged excess
of jurisdiction by the court below in making the order
of which the petitioners complain. An understanding of
the issues requires a statement of the nature of the suit
and of the order made.
The United States filed a complaint in the District
Court against the three petitioners in No. 1189, which
are corporations organized under the laws of South Africa;
the petitioners in No. 1190, which are respectively corporations organized under the laws of the Belgian Congo
and under the laws of Portugal; and four other corporations, one organized under the laws of Belgium, one under
the laws of the Belgian Congo, and two under the laws
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
128 U. S. C. § 377.

Dp BEERS MINES v. UNITED STATES.
212

215

Opinion of the Court.

Ireland, and seven individuals respectively characterized
as stockholder, or stockholder and director, or stockholder
and employee, or managing agent, or managing director
of one or more of the corporations. The complaint sought
equitable relief based upon a charge that the defendants
were engaged in a conspiracy to restrain and monopolize
the commerce of the United States with foreign nations
violation of §§ 1 and 2
in gem and industrial diamonds, iri
of the Sherman Act' and § 73 of the Wilson Tariff Act.8
The complaint alleged that all of the corporate defendants
were doing business within the United States.
With the complaint the United States filed a motion
for a preliminary injunction in which it prayed that all
of the corporate defendants be restrained from withdrawing from the country any property located in the United
States, and from selling, transferring or disposing of any
property in the United States "until such time as this
Court shall have determined the issues of this case and
defendant corporations shall have complied with its
orders." The reason given in support of the motion
was:
"The injury to the United States of America from the
withdrawal of said deposits, diamonds or other property
would be irreparable because sequestration of said property is the only means of enforcing this Court's orders or
decree against said foreign corporate defendants. The
principal business of said defendants is carried on in
foreign countries and they could quickly withdraw their
assets from the United States and so prevent enforcement
of any order or decree which this Court may render."
Amongst other supporting papers was an affidavit by
counsel for the United States which stated that "the investigation which he has made shows the foreign corporate
defendants named herein have endeavored to avoid sub26 Stat. 209 as amended 15 U. S. C. §§ 1, 2.
3 28 Stat. 570 as amended 15 U. S. C. § 8.

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

jecting themselves to the jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States by making their sales abroad only and requiring customers to pay in advance for all purchases."
There was also a motion for a restraining order without
notice. The requested restraining order was issued and
served on a number of banks; one, a bank in which De
Beers had, the same day, established a credit of $59,320;
others in which Forestiere had credits of approximately
$632,000. Bank credits of petitioner Diamantes affected
aggregate approximately $47,000. Both the two last
named petitioners had purchased machinery and supplies
in the United States of an approximate value of $100,000,
which were covered by the injunction. Upon a showing
that as the corporate defendants were foreign corporations
and would be required to obtain information and affidavits
in support of their contention that service of process in
the suit had not been made upon them, and in support of
other motions addressed to failure to state a cause of action
under the statutes, time to plead or answer was extended;
and the injunction was from time to time modified and
continued. Counsel for.the petitioners, appearing specially, moved for dissolution of the injunction. The case
was heard on affidavits and oral argument, the application
was denied, and the injunction was continued in force.
Thereupon the petitioners applied to this court for certiorari under § 262. That section provides in part:
"The Supreme Court, the circuit courts of appeals, and
the district courts shall have power to issue all writs not
specifically provided forby statute, which may be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and
agreeable to the usages and principles of law."
All the petitioners attack the order as in substance a
szquestration of property beyond the power of the court
and an abuse of discretion in the circumstances. The petitioners in No. 1 39 also seek a reversal on the -ground that
the complaint does not state a clairh cognizable by United
States courts and that the affidavits filed by these peti-

DE BEERS MINES v. UNITED STATES.

217

Opinion of the Court.

212

tioners establish that the court below has no jurisdiction
over the persons of the defendants. It is obvious from
the record that these contentions are still open in the
court below and that court has not yet passed upon them.
In the view we take of the case it is unnecessary for us
presently to consider them.
In United States Alkali Export Assn. v. United States,
ante, p. 196, the court has discussed the propriety of review under § 262 in a suit brought under the Anti-Trust
laws where there is e. substantial question whether the
District Court has jurisdiction of a suit which it has retained for trial on the merits. What is there said applies
in this instance. If the preliminary injunction here
granted, unless set aside, will stand throughout the course
of the trial and for an indefinite period after its termination, and if the order was beyond the powers conferred
upon the court, it is plain, under the decisions mentiohed,
that the petitions present an appropriate case for the exercise of our jurisdiction under § 262. As hereafter noted
the order in question was not made to grant interlocutory
relief such as could be afforded by any inal injunction,
but is one respecting a matter lying wholly outside' the
issues in the case; no decision of the suit on the merits can
redress any injury done by the order; and therefore unless
it can be reviewed under § 262 it can never be corrected
if beyond the power of the court below.4 When Congress
withholds interlocutory reviews, § 262 can, of course, not
be availed of to correct a mere error in the exercise of conceded judicial power. But when a court has no judicial
power to do what it purports to do-when its action is
not mere error but usurpation of power-the situation
falls precisely within the allowable use of § 262. We proceed, therefore, to inquire whether the District Court is
empowered to enter the order under attack.
See In re Chetwood, 165 U. S. 443, 462; Maryland v. Soper, 270

U.S 9,30.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Although the Government based its motion upon the
theory that the entry of the requested injunction would
amount to a sequestration of the defendants' assets, and
so argued in the court below, it has abandoned that position, because Rule 70 of the Rules of Civil Procedure,5
which permits the issue of a writ of attachment or sequestration against the property of a disobedient party to
compel satisfaction of a judgment, is operative only after
a judgment is entered.
The Government disclaims any benefit of Rule 64, which
provides for an attachment at the commencement of, or
during the course of, an action for the purpose of securing
payment of any judgment ultimately obtained, under
and in accordance with the law of the state in which the
court sits or under any existing federal statute. It is admitted that there is no applicable federal statute and that,
under the law of New York, an attachment may issue only
in an action seeking a money judgment and will not issue
in an equity suit such as the instant one.'
The court below deduced the power to grant the injunction from § 4 of the Sherman Act T and from § 262 of the
Judicial Code, the section under which petitioners seek
review in this court. The respondent seeks to sustain the
injunction under the same statutory provisions.
Section 4 of the Sherman Act confers jurisdiction on
District Courts "to prevent and restrain violations of this
act." That jurisdiction, as we have held., is to be exercised according to the general principles which govern
§ 723c.
528 U. S. C. foll.
6 N. Y. Civil Practice Act § 902; 7 Carmody, New York Practice,
§ 309; Thorington v. Merrick, 101 N. Y. 5, 3 N. E. 794; Brown- v.
Chaminade Velours, 176 Misc. 238,26 N. Y. S. 2d 1009; Avery v. Avery,
119 App. Div. 698, 104 N. Y. S. 290. Compare Lazenby v. Codrnan.
28 F. Supp. 949; Shiel v. Patrick, 59 F. 992.
7 15 U. S. C. § 4.
' Appalachian Coals v. United States, 288 U. S. 344, 377.

DE BEERS MINES v. UNITED STATES.
212

219

Opinion of the Court.

the granting of equitable relief. Since it confers no new
or different power than those traditionally exercised by
courts of equity, we are remitted to examination of the
practice of such courts, unless § 262 has enlarged those
powers. That section empowers District Courts to issue
all writs not specifically provided for by statute which may
be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions and agreeable to the usages and principles of law. It
turns out, therefore, that we are again remitted to an inquiry as to what is the usage, and what are the principles
of equity applicable in such a case.
Preliminary to a discussion of the course of decision in
chancery it will be well to note exactly what is the substance of the injunction, since the name given to the
process is not determinative. In truth the purpose and
effect of the injunction is to provide security for performance of a future order which may be entered by the court.
Its issue presupposes or assumes the following things: (1)
that the court has obtained jurisdiction of the persons of
the defendants; (2) that it may be found and adjudged
that the United States has stated a cause of action in its
complaint; (3) that a decree may be entered after trial
on the merits enjoining and restraining the defendants
from certain future conduct; (4) that the defendants may
disobey the decree entered; (5) that a proceeding may be
instituted for contempt and will result adversely to the
defendants; (6) that a fine may be imposed; (7) that the
defendants may neglect or refuse to pay the fine; (8) that
an execution issued for the collection of the fine pursuant
to 18 U. S. C. 569 may be ineffectual to seize property or
money of the defendants in liquidation of the fine, unless
the moneys and properties covered by the injunction are
held to await the event.
Under the Sherman Act and the Wilson Tariff Act, the
District Court has no jurisdiction in this suit to enter a
money judgment. It only power is to restrain the future

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

continuance of actions or conduct intended to monopolize
or restrain commerce. It, of course, has the power, pending final action in this respect, to restrain action or conduct
violative of the statute. A preliminary injunction is
always appropriate to grant intermediate relief of the
same character as that which may be granted finally. The
injunction in question is not of this character. It is not
an injunction in the cause, and it deals with a matter lying
wholly outside the issues in the suit. It deals with property which in no circumstances can be dealt with in any
final injunction that may be entered. It is not a form of
seizure of property used in offending against the statute,
for the property is not such as might be seized under § 6
'
of the Sherman Act,9 or under § 76 of the Wilson Act,10
and the complaint and affidavits do not purport so to
charge. This process is, and can only be, sustained as a
method of providing security for compliance with other
process which conceivably may be issued for satisfaction
of a money judgment for contempt.
The parties agree that neither of them can find any
decision or textbook authority for the requisition of such
security on the footing of a complaint in equity. The
respondent refers us to certain cases as analogous but,
upon examination, they are all found to be cases in which
an interlocutory injunction was granted with respect
to a fund or property which would have been the subject
of the provisions of any final decree in the cause," or
against action which would ultimately have been subject
to injunction by final decree. 2 The Government also
refers us to cases where federal courts have enjoined inter915 U. S. C. §6.
1015 U. S. C. §11.
11 Deckert v. Independence Corp., 311 U. S. 282.
12Looney v. Eastern Texas R. Co., 247 U. S. 214; Ohio Oil Co. v.
Conway, 279 U. S. 813; Virginian R. Co. v. System Federation,300
U. S. 515; Gibbs v. Buck, 307 U. S. 66.

DE
212

BEERS MINES v. UNITED STATES.

221

Opinion of the Court.

ference with their jurisdiction. 3 Thus it argues that a
court of equity has inherent power to protect its jurisdiction. The fallacy, in the application of the principle here,
is that, if service of the defendants is properly obtained,
and if the complaint states a cause of action, no one questions the jurisdiction of the District Court to enter an
appropriate injunction against future conduct violative
of the Anti-Trust Acts. The injunction here granted cannot aid or protect this exercise of its powers, and is not
intended to do so.
Federal and State courts appear consistently to have
refused relief of the nature here sought." The Government nevertheless urges that equity should extend its
jurisdiction for the purpose envisaged in the issue of the
injunction and advances several reasons in support of its
position. It suggests that, by analogy to the practice of
issuing writs ne exeat," the court, if it would restrain, by
such a writ, an individual defendant in a similar case,
should restrain the removal of the property of a corporate
defendant from the jurisdiction. The analogy is not a
helpful one, for the writ ne exeat would not be issued in
a case of this sort where the defendant presently owes no
debt to the complainant nor is under any fixed duty by
13This power has often been exercised in cases where a court of
equity has first taken jurisdiction of a res and where some other court

has thereafter essayed to deal with that res. See, e. g. Wabash R. Co.
v. Adelbert College, 208 U. S.38, 45; Palmer v. Texas, 212 U. S. 118,
129, 130; Princess Lida v. Thompson, 305 U. S. 456, 467.
1"Martin v. Berry Sons' Co., 83 F. 2d 857; Cities Service Co. v.
McDowell, 13 Del. Ch. 109, 116 A. 4; Wahlgren v. Bausch & Lomb
Optical Co., 77 F. 2d 121; Campbell v. Ernest, 64 Hun 188, 19 N. Y.
S. 123; Platt v. Elias, 101 App. Div. 518, 91 N. Y. S.1079; Maine
Products Co. v. Alexander, 115 App. Div. 112, 100 N. Y. S. 711;
Golden v. Tauster, 68 Misc. 459, 125 N. Y: S. 83; Wright Co. v. Aero
Corp., 128 N. Y. S. 726; Broadloot v. Miller, 106 Misc. 455, 174
N. Y. S. 497; compare Gordon v. Washington, 295 U. S. 30, 37.
15 See 28 U. S. C. § 376.

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

reason of the receipt of moneys to account to the complainant therefor."6
The Government urges that the supposed hardship imposed upon the defendants by the entry of the injunction
is exaggerated; that, by giving a bond, the defendants
could release their moneys and property. To this there
are several sufficient answers. If the court is without
jurisdiction to demand security under the circumstances
presented, it is equally without authority to compel the
proffer of a bond by the seizure of property. If the process
be justified in the present posture of the case, there is
nothing to prevent other and further seizures of property
or money brought into the United States in connection
with transactions unrelated to any supposed violation of
the Anti-Trust laws. Moreover, the very indefiniteness
of the obligation, the remoteness of any possible exoneration of the surety, and the citizenship of the defendants
would, as common experience tells us, require the posting
of collateral with any bondsman, which would, in effect,
tie up assets of value equal to that of those frozen by the
injunction.
To sustain the challenged order would create a precedent of sweeping effect. This suit, as we have said, is not
to be distinguished from any other suit in equity. What
applies to it applies to all such. Every suitor who resorts
to chancery for any sort of relief by injunction may, on a
mere statement of belief that the defendant can easily
make away with or transport his money or goods, impose
an injunction on him, indefinite in duration, disabling him
to use so much of his funds or property as the court deems
necessary for security or compliance N'ith its possible decree. And, if so, it is difficult to see why a plaintiff in any
action for a personal judgment in tort or contract may not,
also, apply to the chancellor for a so-called injunction
sequestrating his opponent's assets pending recovery and
16Ginsberg & Sons v. Popkin, 285 U. S. 204, 208.

DE BEERS MINES v. UNITED STATES.
212

DOUGLAS,

223

J., dissenting.

satisfaction of a judgment in such a law action. No relief
of this character has been thought justified in the long
history of equity jurisprudence.
We are of opinion that the injunction issued in this case
is not authorized either by statute or by the usages of
equity and that the decree granting the injunction should
be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK,
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concur,

dissenting.
I think the writ should be dismissed. For I do not
think this is a proper case in which to exercise our jurisdiction under § 262 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C.
§ 377.
Our jurisdiction under § 262 has been fully reviewed by
the Chief Justice in U. S. Alkali Export Assn. v. United
States, ante, p. 196. I agree that the exercise of our extraordinary jurisdiction was appropriate in that case. For
the question presented not only went to the jurisdiction of
the District Court to entertain the suit. If the defendants
in that suit were right in their contention, a trial on the
merits would have frustrated the statutory- scheme which
Congress had designed for the control of anti-trust
activities.
But there is no such extraordinary situation presented
here. This is precisely the kind of decree which Congress
by the Expediting Act of February 11, 1903, as amended
15 U. S. C. § 29, intended should not be brought here for
review. With reference to the change made by that Act,
Mr. Justice Brandeis speaking for the Court in United
States v. CaliforniaCooperative Canneries,279 U. S. 553,
558, said: "These provisions governing appeals in general
were ameaided by the Expediting Act so that in suits in
equity under the Anti-Trust Act 'in which the United
States is complainant,' the appeal should be direct to this

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

Court from the final decree in the trial court. Thus, Congress limited the right of review to an appeal from the

decree which disposed of all matters, see Collins v. Miller,
252 U. S. 364; and it precluded the possibility of an appeal
to either court from an interlocutory decree."
To allow this appeal is to defeat that policy. Long ago
in Bank of Columbia v. Sweeney, 1 Pet. 567, 569, Chief
Justice Marshall stated that an allowance of an appeal
from an interlocutory ruling where Congress permitted
an appeal only from a final judgment would be a "plain
evasion" of the Act of Congress. We made a like ruling
only recently in Roche v. EvaporatedMilk Assn., 319 U. S.
21, 30, where we said: "Where the appeal statutes establish the conditions of appellate review, an appellate court
cannot rightly exercise its discretion to issue a writ whose
only effect would be to avoid those conditions and thwart
the Congressional policy against piecemeal appeals in
criminal cases."
The present case presents no issue which warrants a
departure from that long settled practice. This case raises
no question of grave public importance. •It is by no means

comparable to Ex parte United States, 287 U. S. 241,
where the interlocutory decree was equivalent to a denial
of the absolute right of the government to put the accused
on trial. It is wholly unlike the cases cited in U. S. Alkali
Export Assn. v. United States, supra, where writs were
issued under § 262 to review interlocutory orders which
foreclosed the adjudication :of rights entrusted to the
jurisdiction of a state tribunal or which deprived a party
of his basic right of trial by jury. The public importance
of the present question is not apparent. The actual hardship imposed upon the defendants is no more than the
cost of procuring a bond. It has always been .assumed
that mere hardship or inconvenience alone was not sufficient to justify resort to the extraordinary course of review

by way of § 262. U. S. Alkali Export Assn. v. United

DE BEERS MINES v. UNITED STATES.
212

225

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

States, supra. Is the inconvenience of private litigants to
be the newly found ground for evading the Expediting
Act?
i The reason advanced for departing from the long standing practice is that "the order was beyond the powers
conferred upon the court." By that test every interlocutory order which is wrong can be reviewed here under
§ 262. That is novel doctrine. That seems to be the test
for the Court says that the order can now be reviewed
because it involves "a matter lying wholly outside the
issues in the case." In other words, we look to the merits
and take the case under § 262 if it appears that the District
Court exceeded its authority. But it always exceeds its
authority when it abuses its discretion. Thus we must
now entertain these appeals on interlocutory orders,
though Congress said we should not, in order to determine
whether the District Court kept within bounds. Certainly
Congress knew that some interlocutory orders might be
erroneous when it chose to make them non-reviewable. It
did not draw the distinction now suggested between interlocutory orders which are an abuse of conceded judicial
power and interlocutory orders which otherwise exceed
judicial authority. Congress moreover knew that if immediate review of interlocutory orders could not be had,
no decision on the merits might be able to "redress any
injury done by the order." But that was the choice which
it made. We should respect it.
The decision, if followed, will open the flood gates to
review of interlocutory decrees. It circumvents the policy of Congress to restrict review in these cases to final
judgments.

