450

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

325 U. S.

ALABAMA STATE FEDERATION OF LABOR

ET AL.

v. McADORY ETr AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 588.

Argued April 3, 4, 1945.-Decided June 11, 1945.

1. The Bradford Act (Alabama Laws of 1943, No. 298) is a comprehensive enactment regulating the activities and affairs of labor
organizations having members who are employed in Alabama.
Section 7 requires every labor organization "functioning" or "desiring to function" within the State to file a copy of the constitution
and by-laws of its own and any parent organization, and to file
annually a report giving prescribed information. The section
makes it unlawful for any officer or agent to collect dues or other
monies from any member while the labor organization is in default
with respect to filing of the annual report. Section 15 makes it
unlawful for any person or labor organization to collect, receive or
demand any fee, assessment or money--other than initiation fees
or dues-for a "work permit" or "as a condition for the privilege
" of work." Section 16 makes it unlawful for any "execuoive, administrative, professional, or supervisory employee to be a member in,
or to be accepted for membership by, any labor organization"
which admits to membership employees other than persons of these
classes; but provides that the section is not to be construed "so
as to interfere with or void any insurance contract now in existence
and in force." Section 18 imposes civil liability and criminal penalties for violations of the Act. Petitioners (national and local
labor organizations and an individual member) sought a declaratory judgment of unconstitutionality of §§ 7, 15 and 16. Held:
(A) The contention that the Act denies equal protection of the
laws, in violation of the Federal Constitution, because its provisions, or some of them, do not apply to business corporations
or associations or to labor orgdnizations which are subject to the
Railway Labor Act, is without substance. P. 471.
The State is not bound to regulate all types of organizations or
none; it may begin with such as in its judgment most need regulation and may exclude those believed to be already appropriately
regulated by either state or national legislation. P. 472.
(B) Other issues as to the constitutional validity of the Act, as
presented by the record before this Court, are inappropriate for
decision in a declaratory judgment proceeding. P. 472.

FEDERATION OF LABOR v. McADOtx.
450

451

Syllabus.

2. This Court can not say that §§ 7 and 18 could not be so construed
and applied as not to deny the constitutional right of free speech
and assembly; and, in the absence of any authoritative construction of the sections by the state courts, and. upon a record which
presents no concrete set of facts to which the Act is to be applied,
the case in this aspect is plainly not one to be disposed of by the
declaratory judgment procedure. P. 460.
(a) The requirements for a justiciable case or controversy are
no less strict in a declaratory judgment proceeding than in any
other type of suit. P. 461.
(b) It is the practice of this Court not to decide abstract, hypothetical or contingent questions; or to decide any constitutional
question in advance of the necessity for its decision; or to formulate
a rule of constitutional law broader than is required by the precise
facts to which it is to be applied; or to decide any constitutional
question except with reference to the particular facts to which it
is to be applied. P. 461.
(c) The declaratory judgment procedure may be resorted to
only in the sound discretion of the Court and where the interests
of justice will be advanced and an adequate and effective judgment
may be rendered. P. 462.
3. The record affords an inadequate factual basis for determining
whether § 16 is applicable to any of petitioners' members, or if so
whether as applied to them the Act would violate freedom of speech
and assembly. P. 462.
4. Nor may the validity of § 16 be here determined, in view of the
state court's construction of the section as inapplicable wherever
it would otherwise "interfere with or void any insurance contract
now in existence and in force," and since it does not appear from
the record whether and to what extent the section can be deemed
applicable to petitioners' -members because of existing insurance
arrangements. P. 463.
5. The constitutional validity of a statute may be attacked, in
declaratory judgment proceedings as in any other, only by those
to whom the statute applies and who are adversely affected by
it. P. 463.
6. Uncertainty as to the construction of §§ 7 and 16, and uncertainty
as to the facts to which they are to be applied, preclude an adjudication upon this record that these sections conflict with the National
Labor Relations Act. Pp. 464, 467.
(a) As none of the petitioners are shown to function as bargaining representatives for. employees in industries subject to the
National Labor Relations Act, or, if they do so, to function exclu-

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

325 U. S.

sively as representatives for such employees, it can not be said
that §§ 7 and 16 could in no circumstances be validly applied to
any of them; and the Court is bound to assume the existence of
any state of facts which would sustain the sections when they are
assailed as unconstitutional. P. 465.
(b) The Court can not assume that the failure to file reports will
result in the exclusion of petitioners, or any of them, from functioning in the State, or will visit any consequences upon them other
than the penalty for failure to file; nor say, in the absence of any
showing to the contrary, that the filing of information returns will
impose such burdens on any of petitioners as to interfere with the
performance of their functions under the National Labor Relations
Act in cases where that Act is applicable. P. 466.
(c) The validity of § 16 and whether it conflicts with the
National Labor Relations Act can not be considered upon this
record, in view of the ruling of the state court that the section
is inapplicable wherever it would otherwise interfere with or
render ineffective any existing contract of insurance, and in view
of the failure of the petitioners to show to what extent § 16 as
so construed can be taken to be applicable to any of them because
of existing insurance arrangements. P. 466.
(d) A state statute may be voided as in conflict with federal
legislation only if the conflict is clearly shown; and then only
where the complainant shows that he is adversely affected by the
alleged conflict. P. 467.
7. Since the record presents no concrete case in which § 15 has been
applied, the Court can not say whether its application in circumstances not now presented would be so arbitrary and unreasonable
.as to deny due process. P. 468.
8. The contention that the requirement of § 7 as to the filing of
information statements and reports is so burdensome on labor
organizations as to deny due process of law is not supported by
the facts of record. P. 469.
9. The objection that §§ 7 and 16 are unconstitutional as vague and
uncertain can not appropriately be considered in a declaratory
judgment proceeding in the federal courts, in advance of their
authoritative construction by a state court. P. 470.
10. The extent to which the-declaratory judgment procedure may be
used in the federal courts to control state action lies in the sound
discretion of the Court. It would be an abuse of discretion for
this Court to make a pronouncement on the constitutionality of
a state statute before it plainly appeared that the necessity for it
had arisen, or when the Court is left in uncertainty, which it can

FEDERATION OF LABOR v. McADORY. 453

450

Opinion of the Court.

not authoritatively resolve, as to the meaning of the statute when
applied to any particular state of facts. P. 471.
11. In the exercise of this Court's discretionary power to grant or
withhold the declaratory judgment remedy it is of controlling significance that it is in the public interest to avoid the needless
determination of constitutional questions and the needless obstruction to the domestic policy of the States by forestalling state action
in construing and applying its own statutes. P. 471.
Writ dismissed.

CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 703, to review a judgment, 246
Ala. 1, 18 So. 2d 810, upholding, in a declaratory judgment
proceeding, the constitutionality of provisions of a state
statute.
Messrs. Horace C. Wilkinson and Joseph A. Padway,
with whom Mr. Herbert S. Thatcher was on the brief, for
petitioners.
Messs. JamesA. Simpson, John W. Lapsley and JohnE.
Adams, with whom William N. McQueen, Acting Attorney
General of Alabama, was on the brief, for respondents.
Briefs were filed by Solicitor General Fahy, Messrs.
Robert L. Stern, Alvin J. Rockwell, Miss Ruth Weyand
and Mrs. Elizabeth W. Weston on behalf of the United
States; Messrs. Arthur Garfield Hayes and Osmond K.
Fraenkelon behalf of the American Civil Liberties Union;
and Mr. Paul O'Dwyer on behalf of the Workers Defense
League, as amici curiae, in support of petitioners.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case was brought in the state courts of Alabama
for a declaratory judgment adjudicating the constitutional
validity of certain sections of the Bradford Act, No. 298,
Alabama Laws of 1943 (Code 1943, Tit. 26 §§ 376 et seq.).
The principal question is whether petitioners' contentions
are so related to any case or controversy presented by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

record that this Court may appropriately pass upon them
in a declaratory judgment proceeding.
Petitioners are four affiliated, unincorporated labor organizations, the American Federation of Labor, and the
United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, which are national labor organizations, anld two Alabama labor organizations, and an individual who is a
citizen of Alabama and a member of petitioner, Local
Union No. 103, United Brotherhood of Carpenters and
Joiners of America.
Petitioners brought the present suit in the Alabama Circuit Court for Jefferson County against respondents, officers of Jefferson County, charged with the duty of enforcing the Bradford Act. They prayed a declaratory
judgment that the Act as a whole and specifically §§ 7,
15, and 16, among others, are unconstitutional and void
under the federal and state constitutions.
After a trial upon a stipulated statement of facts, certain affidavits and the testimony of witnesses, the circuit
court held the Act as a whole, and specifically § 7 of the
Act, to be valid and constitutional. It declined as "inappropriate" to make declarations as to the validity of §§ 15
and 16. On appeal, petitioners assigning as error the circuit court's failure to pass upon the constitutionality of
§§ 15 and 16, and to declare those sections and § 7 unconstitutional, the state supreme court held all three sections
valid and constitutional. 246 Ala. 1, 18 So. 2d 810. We
granted certiorari, 323 U. S. 703, upon a petition which
presented the contentions I that §§7 and 16 impose a prior.
general restraint on petitioners' freedom of speech and
assembly guaranteed by the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution and conflict with the National
Labor Relations Act by depriving them of rights under
Under the view we take of the case it is unnecessary to determine
whether petitioners have properly raised in the state courts the fed-

eral questions which they urge here with respect to

§§ 15 and 16.

FEDERATION OF LABOR v. McADORY. 455
450

Opinion of the Court.

it; that §§ 7, 15 and 16 are an arbitrary and unreasonable
exercise of the state police power which denies petitioners
due process and equal protection of the laws in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment; and that §§ 15 and 16
are so ambiguous and uncertain in their requirements as
to deny petitioners due process of law.
The Bradford Act is a comprehensive enactment regulating labor unions having members who are employees
working in the State of Alabama. It establishes a Department of Labor under the supervision and control of a
director of labor; it sets up mediation machinery for the
settlement of labor disputes. It requires all labor organizations within the provisions of the Act to file with
the Department various reports and financial statements
and to pay filing fees. It regulates some phases of the
internal affairs and activities of labor organizations, and
various aspects of picketing, boycotting and striking. It
imposes civil liability and criminal penalties for violation
of its: provisions.
Section 7 provides that "Every labor organization functioning in Alabama shall within sixty days after the effectitre date of this chapter, and every labor organization
hereafter desiring to function in Alabama shall, before
doing so, file a copy of its constitution and its by-laws and
a copy of the constitution and by-laws of the national or
international union, if any, to which the labor organization belongs, with the department of labor...

All

changes or amendments to the constitution or by-laws,
local, national or international, adopted subsequent to
their original filing must be.filed with the department of
labor within thirty days after" their adoption.
Section 7 further provides that "Every labor organization functioning in the State of Alabama and having
twenty-five or more members," shall file annually with.
every member of the organization and with the Director
of the Department of Labor a verified written report giving

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

detailed information as to its name, the location of its
offices, the officers of the organization, their salaries, wages,
bonuses, and other remuneration, the date of the election
of officers, the number of its paid up members, and a complete financial statement showing all receipts and disbursements with the names of recipients and purpose thereof,
and a complete statement of the money and property
owned by the organization. Section 7 also declares, "It
shall be unlawful for any fiscal or other officer or agent of
any labor organization to collect or accept payment of
any dues, fees, assessments, fines, or any other monies from
any member while such labor organization is in default
with respect to filing the annual report..
Section 15 reads: "It shall be unlawful for any labor
organization, any labor organizer, any officer, agent, repre\sentative or member of any labor organization, or any
Other person, to collect, receive or demand . . . from any
person, any fee, assessment, or sum of money whatsoever,
as a work permit or as a condition for the privilege of
work; provided, however, this shall not prevent the collection of initiation fees or dues."
Section 16 prescribes: "It shall be unlawful for any
executive) administrative, professional, or supervisory employee to be a member in, or to be accepted for membership by, any labor organization, -the constitution and bylaws of which permit membership to employees other than
those in executive, administrative, professional or supervisory capacities, or which is affiliated with any labor organization which permits membership to employees other
than those in an executive, administrative, professional, or
supervisory capacity. The provisions of this Section shall
not be construed so as to interfere with or void any insurance contract now in existence and in force." Section 18
enacts, "If any labor organization violates any provision
of this chapter, it shall be penalized civilly in a sum not
exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each such

FEDERATION OF LABOR v. McADORY. 457
450

Opinion of the Court.

violation .
The doing of any act forbidden or declared unlawful by the provisions of this chapter . . .
shall constitute a misdemeanor, and shall be punishable
by a fine . . . or by imp)risonment."
Infringement of freedom of speech and assembly by
sections 7 and 16.
Petitioners do not deny the authority of the state to
regulate labor unions. They do not contend that all their
practices shown by the record or all their activities required to be reported by § 7 are within the protection of
the constitutional provisions preserving the right to free
speech or assembly, or that the requirement of § 7 that
petitioners file reports, of itself, infringes their right of
free speech. But construing the words of § 7 which provide that labor organizations "functioning" in the state
shall file the prescribed statements or reports, and the
further requirement that every labor organization "desiring to function" in Alabama shall, before doing so, file
certain prescribed documents, petitioners attack the section as a licensing provision and assail its validity on the
ground that as such it is a restraint upon their freedom of
speech and assembly.
No officer or representative of the state is empowered
by the terms of the section to grant or withhold a license
authorizing a labor organization to function within the
state. The State Supreme Court so held in this case. The
argument is that compliance with § 7 is made prerequisite
to the functioning of any labor organization within the
state, and that one of the functions of petitioners is the
exercise of their right of freedom of speech and assembly
to advance the interests of labor and labor organizations
by winning public support for their program, through education and dissemination of information. They say that
the requirement of a license, before a labor organization
can function within the state, to be secured by filing the

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

requisite statements and reports, is an unconstitutional
restraint on their right of free speech and assembly. Specifically they argue that if they fail to file any of the statements required by § 7 and afterwards function as a labor
union within the state, by exercising their right of free
speech and assembly, they may be subjected to th6 criminal penalties imposed by § 18, and may also be enjoined
from so functioning by a civil suit in equity in the state
courts.
In considering this objection to § 7 the Supreme Court
of Alabama did not elaborate on the meaning of the terms
"function" or "functioning" as used in the statute. It
indicated that they embrace the conduct of the business
activities of labor organizations within the state, such as
the assessment and collection of fines and dues, the collection of monies and their disbursement, the management
of their property, the election of their officers and the
appointment of their agents, and the
maintenance and
defense of suits in the courts. And it added "'Function,'
as used in this Act, simply means a labor organization,
whether incorporated or not, engaged in business in this
State, and in the character of business thus indicated,
for the promotion of the interests of its members. True,
as a part of its functioning, and a part only, the assemblage of its members for discussion is had, but this is
merely incidental."
This language may be taken to suggest that assemblies
of labor organizations which are incidental to their business activities are within the reach of the Act. But we
are left uninformed, and, without the application of the
statute by the state courts to some concrete set of facts,
we are unable to say, whether the statute is to be construed as meaning that "functioning" by a labor organization which has not complied with § 7 by filing the prescribed reports is itself a violation of the Act subjecting
it to cumulative penalties under § 18.

FEDERATION OF LABOR v. McADORY. 459
450

Opinion of the Court.

On the face of the statute failure to file the required
statements or reports entails a civil and possibly also a
criminal penalty. The collection of dues after such a
failure is by § 7 declared to be unlawful and is therefore
by § 18 made a misdemeanor. But the statute nowhere in
terms makes it an offense or unlawful for a labor organization to continue otherwise to function after failing to file
the required report or statement. So far as appears the
Supreme Court of Alabama has not construed the penal
provisions of the statute or determined that the failure of
a labor organization to file the documents specified in
§ 7 entails any consequences other than the specified
penalty for the failure to file, with a further penalty if
without filing the labor organization or its officers continue to collect dues. Neither of these sanctions is asserted or shown to operate as an injunction restraining
freedom of speech or assembly. Nor does it appear that
the Alabama courts have held that a labor organization
failing to file may be enjoined from functioning.
Moreover if "functioning" after failure to file is itself
a violation we do not know whether the statute will be
interpreted as penalizing a union merely for engaging in
those business activities which are not contended to be
within the protection of the right to free speech or, on the
other hand, for holding meetings which are wholly unrelated to its business activities. In any event we are
not advised, nor has the state court said, what assemblies
or meetings of a labor organization are so related to its
business activities as to be deemed "incidental" to them
so as to be within the reach of the statute.
Obviously no decision of the constitutional issues now
posed could be made in this suit, and no opinion could
be written, without considering all and.deciding some at
least of these questions of statutory interpretation. No
state court has decided them, briefs and argument offer us
little aid in their solution, and no solution which We could

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1q44.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

tender would be controlling on the state courts. The
record supplies us with no concrete state of facts to which
the challenged sections, when construed, could be applied.
For all that we know the only penalty to which petitioners
may be subjected for violation of § 7 is a single penalty for
failure to file the required statement or repbrt, and their
continued functioning in the state would subject them
to no further penalty or restraint. And assuming that the
penalties or threat of penalties of the statute may be so
applied as to operate as a present restraint more than does
the bare existence of the civil and criminal penalties for
libel, it nowhere appears that the statutory penalties are
being so threatened or applied.
It is not contended that the statute in any way restricts
the freedom of assembly and speech of labor organizations after they comply with the filing requirements of
the statute, and it nowhere appears that any of the petitioners are so situated that they could not comply with
the statute within the period allowed by it for compliance,
without incurring any penalty for noncompliance. The
attack thus made on § 7 is as to the constitutionality of
the section on its face, without reference to its application
to any particular defined -set of facts, other than those
generally catalogued in the section itself. We cannot say
that §§ 7 and 18 could not be so construed and applied as
not to restrain petitioners' functioning in the state in the
exercise of their constitutional right of free speech and
assembly. We are thus invited to pass upon the constitutional validity of a state statute which has not yet been
applied or threatened to be applied by the state courts
to petitioners or others in the manner anticipated. Lacking any authoritative construction of the statute by the
state courts, without which no constitutional question
arises, and lacking the authority to give such a controlling
construction ourselves, and with a record which presents
no concrete set of facts to which the statute is to be ap-

FEDERATION OF LABOR v. McADORY.
450

461

Opinion of the Court.

plied, the case is plainly not one to be disposed of by the
declaratory judgment procedure.
The requirements for a justiciable case or controversy
are no less strict in a declaratory judgment proceeding
than in any other type of suit. Nashville, C. & St. L. P.
Co. v. Wallace, 288 U. S. 249; Aetna Life Ins. Co. v.
Haworth,300 U. S. 227; Maryland Casualty Co. v. Pacific
Co., 312 U. S. 270, 273; Great Lakes Co. v. Huffman, 319
U. S. 293, 299, 300; Coffman v. Breeze Corps., 323 U. S.
316. This Court is #ithout power to give advisory opinions. Hayburn's Case, 2 Dall. 409; United States v.
Evans, 213 U. S. 297, 301; Muskrat v. United States, 219
U. S. 346; Stearns v. Wood, 236 U. S. 75; Cofiman v.
Breeze Corps., supra. It. has long been its considered
practice not to decide abstract, hypothetical or contingent
questions, Giles v. Harris, 189 U. S. 475, 486; District of
Columbia v. Brooke, 214 U. S. 138, 152; Anniston Mfg.
Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S. 337, 355; Electric Bond Co. v. Securities & Exchange Commission, 303 U. S. 419; United
States v. Appalachian Power Co., 311 U. S. 377, 423, or
to decide any constitutional question in advance of the
necessity for its decision, Charles River Bridge v. Warren
Bridge, 11 Pet. 420, 553; Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82,
96; Liverpool, N. Y. & P. S. S. Co. v. EmigrationComm'rs,
113 U. S. 33, 39; Burton v. United States, 196 U. S. 283,
295; Arkansas Oil Co. v. Louisiana,304 U. S. 197, 202, or
to formulate a rule of constitutional law broader than is
required by the precise facts to which it is to be applied,
Liverpool, N. Y. & P. S. S. Co. v. Emigration Comm'rs,
supra, 39; White v. Johnson, 282 U. S. 367, 371; AllenBradley Local v. Board, 315 U. S. 740, 746-7, or to decide
any constitutional question except with reference to the
particular facts to which it is to be applied, Hall v. GeigerJones Co., 242 U. S. 539, 554; Corporation Comm'n v.
Lowe, 281 U. S. 431, 438; Continental Baking Co. v.

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Woodring, 286 U. S. 352, 372; Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. v.
Grosjean,301 U. S. 412, 429-30.
. A law which is constitutional as applied in one manner
may, it is true, violate the Constitution when applied in
another. Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 694-7; DahnkeWalker Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282, 289; Concordia
Ins, Co. v. Illinois, 292 U. S.535; Associated Pressv. Labor
Board, 301 U. S. 103. But "Since all contingencies of attempted enforcemeni cannot be envisioned in advance of
those applications" this Court has felt bound to delay
passing on "the constitutionality of all the separate phases
of a comprehensive statute until faced with cases involving particular provisions as specifically applied to persons
who claim to be injured." Watson v. Buck, 313 U. S.387,
402. All these considerations forbid our deciding here
the constitutionality of a sate statute of doubtful construction in advance of its application and construction
by the state courts and without reference to some precise set of facts to which it is to be applied. The declaratory judgment procedure may be resorted to only in the
sound discretion of the Court and where the interests of
justice will be advanced and an adequate and effective
judgment may be rendered. Great Lakes Co. v. Huffman,
supra; Coffman v. Breeze Corps., supra.
Like objections are made and like questions raised with
respect to § 16 which makes it unlawful for any "executive, administrative, professional, or supervisory employee to be a member in, or to be accepted for membership by, any labor organization" which admits to membership employees other than persons of these classes.
The section does not define executive, administrative, professional or supervisory employees. No proceeding appears to have been brought in any state court for enforcement of the section, and we are without the aid of any
authoritative construction of its provisions. The record
discloses only general allegations in the words of the stat-

FEDERATION OF LABOR v. McADORY. 463
450

Opinion of the Court.

ute that petitioners admit to their membership both employees who are and employees who are not of those
classes. The record gives no information as to the duties of such supervisory employees other than petitioner
Jones. As to them the Court is thus asked to rule upon
the constitutionality of a state statute which petitioners
challenge as too vague and indefinite to satisfy constitutional requirements, which does not appear to have been
applied or construed by the state court, upon a record
which affords an inadequate factual basis for determining
whether the statute is applicable to any of them, or if so
whether as applied to them the statute would violate
freedom of speech and assembly.
A further and conclusive ground for our declining to paqs
on the validity of § 16 is the ruling of the State Supreme
Court that that section is inapplicable wherever it woild
otherwise "interfere with or void any insurance contract
now in existence and in force." The record without disclosing the details shows that petitioners provide insurance
benefits for their members as such, and that petitioner
Jones is a member of. petitioner United Brotherhood
of Carpenters and Joiners of America, and " a member is entitled to such benefits. Whether and to what
extent § 16 can be deemed applicable to the members of
any of the other petitioners because of existing insurance
arrangements does not appear. Only those to whom a
statute applies and who are adversely affected by it can
draw in question its constitutional validity in a declaratory judgment proceeding as in any other. Marye v.
Parsons, 114 U. S. 325; Tyler v. The Judges, 179 U. S.
405; Turpin v. Lemon, 187 U. S. 51, 60, 61; Arizona v.
California,283 U. S. 423, 463, 464; First National Bank v.
Tax Comm'n, 289 U. S. 60, 65; Ashwander v. TennesseeValley Authority, 297 U. S. 288; Anderson Nat. Bank v.
Luckett, 321 U. S. 233, 242.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Conflict of sections 7 and 16 with the National Labor
Relations Act.
Petitioners also urge that § 7 and § 16 conflict with the
National Labor Relations Act, 49 Stat. 449, 29 U. S. C.
§ 151 et seq., in that Alabama is likely to assert the power
to enforce those sections by depriving petitioners of their
right to function in the state as collective bargaining representatives under the National Labor Relations Act. They
point out that the National Act, § 8 (5), unconditionally
requires an employer to bargain with the representatives
of his employees. They contend that § 7 thus conflicts
with the National Act and that the enforcement of the
former tends to hinder and interfere with the performance
of petitioners' functions under the National Act.
Petitioners also urge that § 16 conflicts with the National Labor Relations Act.in that under its provisions,
as construed and administered by the National Labor Relations Board, employees in certain industries, who exercise supervisory functions, may join and be represented
by unions which also admit to ,their membership nonsupervisory employees. Petitioners say that any labor
organization which has failed to file the report as required
by § 7, or which admits to its union a supervisory employee
contrary to § 16, will be precluded from acting as a bargaining agent under the National Labor Relations Act.
Assuming as we do for present purposes that these contentions are sound, it does not follow that there is no
constitutional scope for application of §§ 7 and 16. The
National Labor Relations Act does not extend to all industries and all employees. It is only applicable to those
employments in which strikes and labor disputes would
affect interstate commerce and are found: to be such by
the National Labor Relations Board. Labor Board v.
Jones &,Laughlin Corp., 301 U. S. 1, 38-40; Labor Board
. ;inblatt, 306 U. S. 601, 604; Polish Alliance v. Labor
,M), #d,322 U. S. 643, 647.

FEDERATION OF LABOR v. McADORY. 465
450

Opinion of the Court.

The record contains evidence of only the most general
character that there are industries located within the state
whose employees are "within the jurisdiction of the Alabama State Federation of Labor and Local No. 103, or of
the other A. F. of L. unions within the class for which the
complaint has been filed, which are engaged ... in interstate commerce." There is evidence generally as to the
practice of the National Labor Relations Board in certifying unions as bargaining representatives. But it nowhere
affirmatively appears that any of petitioners act as bargaining representatives of employees in industries within
the state which are subject to the National Labor Relations
Act.
What is more important for present purposes is that it
does not appear that there are any of petitioners which
do not represent employees in industries which are not
subject to the National Labor Relations Act. To decide
the question of the alleged conflict of §§ 7 and 16 with the
National Labor Relations Act and the effect of it, it would
be necessary to know whether petitioners or some of them
represent employees in industries i4ot subject to the National Labor Relations Act, and the extent to which for
that reason they may be rightly subject to local regulation even though they also represent employees in other
industries which are subject to the National Act. The
record is silent as to which of petitioners represent the one,
or the other, or both. Hence we have no state of facts before us which would enable us to determine the extent to
which the several petitioners may be subject to local regulation which does not conflict with the National Act, and
thus we are unable to say to what extent the challenged
sections are valid or invalid under the National Act.
When a statute is assailed as unconstitutional we are
bound to assume the existence of any state of facts which
would sustain the statute in whole or in part. Metropolitan Casualty Ins. Co. v. Brownell, 294 U. S. 580, 584 and

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

cases cited; United States v. Carolene Products Co., 304
U. S. 144, 152, 153. Since petitioners or some of them are
not shown to function exclusively as bargaining representatives for employees in industries subject to the National Labor Relations Act, we cannot say that §§ 7 and
16 could in no circumstances be validly applied to them.
The extent to which in fact the sections are or may be
so applied, and in what circumstances, does not appear.
In this state of the record we are not called upon to say
whether or to what extent they may be constitutionally
applied.
Moreover, for reasons already stated in our discussion
of the alleged infringement of freedom of speech and assembly, we cannot assume that the failure to file reports
will result in the exclusion of petitioners, or any of them,
from functioning in the state, or visit any consequences
upon them other than the penalty for failure to file. We
therefore have no question before us of a statute which
has been construed to operate either by its penal sanctions
or by the aid of injunction to prevent petitioners, or any
of them, from functioning within the state for noncompliance with § 7. •Compare Hill v. Florida,post, p. 538.
Nor can we say in the absence of any showing to the contrary that the filing of information returns will impose
such burdens on any of petitioners as to interfere with
the performance of their functions under the National
Labor Relations Act in cases where that Act is
applicable.
And finally, as we have pointed out, a further ground
for our not considering the validity of § 16 and-whether it
conflicts with the National Labor Relations Act is the
ruling of the State Supreme Court that that section is
inapplicable wherever it would otherwise interfere with
or render ineffective any existing contract of insurance.
In view of this holding, it is incumbent on petitioners to
show, as they have failed to do, to what extent § 16 can be

FEDERATION OF LABOR v. McADORY. 467
450

Opinion of the Court.

taken to be applicable to any of them because of existing
insurance arrangements with union members.
We can be asked to condemn a state statute as in conflict with national legislation only if the conflict is clearly
shown, Allen-Bradley Local v. Board, supra, 749; Townsend v. Yeonans, 301 U. S. 441, 454, and cases cited, and
only by those who show that they are adversely affected
by the alleged conflict with national power. Each of the
contentions which petitioners make with respect to the
conflict of §§ 7 and,16 with the National Labor Relations
Act could readily be adjudicated and disposed of in an
adversary suit drawing in question their validity as applied to specific states of fact, in which respondents could
both challenge the facts and the applicability to them of
the statute. In the present suit we find that both the
uncertainty as to the construction of the sections and the
uncertainty as to the facts to which they are to be applied
preclude the adjudication which the petitioners seek.
The validity of § 15 under the due process clause.
Section 15 makes it "unlawful for any labor organization, any labor organizer, any officer, agent, representative or member of any labor organization, or any other
person, to collect, receive or demand, . . . from any person, any fee, assessment, or sum of money whatsoever,
as a work permit or as a condition for the privilege of
work." But it excludes from the operation of the Act
the collection of "initiation fees or dues." Petitioners
assert that the section applying as it does to every form
of collection of money, other than initiation fees or dues,
"as a work permit or as a condition for the privilege of
work," prevents numerous legitimate and desirable labor
union practices and hence is so harsh, arbitrary and unreasonable in its application as to infringe due process.
A nimber of examples are given, such as union fees
charged to non-union apprentices in return for their

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

"guidance and teaching" by union members, fees charged
to non-union members for participation in the benefits
of existing all-union collective bargaining contracts, fees
charged for the transfer from one union to another pending admission to union membership in the latter, and the
like.
Although it appears that the constitutions of peti.tioners, or some of them, contain a provision permitting
them to charge a fee to union members working in a union
"jurisdiction" outside that in which they live, it nowhere
appears that such fees or any of the others specified by
petitioners are being or will be charged, or that respondents or the courts have determined that they are unlawful
as not being initiation fees or dues, or that any form of
legal proceeding based on such a contention is contemplated. For these reasons the Supreme Court of Alabama
declined to consider whether § 15 was applicable to petitioners, saying, "Whether or not certain practices to which
counsel refer are to be construed as coming within the
provisions of the Act are questions which will arise when
the proper case is presented."
To say that the statute would be unconstitutional if
Applied to such exactions is not to say that the section
cannot constitutionally apply to exactions which the legislature could have thought coercive, oppressive or otherwise unjust. It is not denied that labor organizations
have indulged in such practices, and obviously we cannot
assume in the face of the constitutional objections that
they do not, or that the state could not make § 15 applicable to them. As the record presents no concrete case to
which petitioners' contentions as to § 15 apply, we are
unable to say whether its application in any given case
not now before us would or would not be constitutional.
Liverpool, N. Y. & P. S. S. Co. v. Emigration Comm'rs,
aupra, 39; Barker Co. v. Painters Union, 281 U. S. 462,
463, 464. Determination of these questions as well as

FEDERATION OF LABOR v. McADORY.
450

469

Opinion of the Court.

the proper construction of the 'section which is challenged
as vague and indefinite must await its application to some
specific state of facts.
Other contentions.
Only a word need be said as to various other objections
not already disposed of, which have been raised but not
seriously pressed. It is said that the requirement of § 7
to file information statements and reports is so burdensome on labor organizations as to deny due process of law.
It is not denied but is affirmed that labor organizations are
subject to regulation, Allen-Bradley Local v. Board, supra,
and that in the interests of regulation the government may
require information from those subject to it. Thomas v.
Collins, 323 U. S. 516, 532; cf. Northwestern Bell Tel. Co.
v. Nebraska Comm'n, 297 U. S. 471, 478; Natural Gas Co.
v. Slattery, 302 U. S. 300, 306 and cases cited. It is said
that in order to comply with the statute it would be necessary for each union, regardless of its size and finances, to
hire public accountants or others with specialized knowledge of accounting practices and procedure, such as working men do not have, and that such a requirement is beyond constitutional power. But these assertions are unsupported by the record. It does not show to what extent
the transactions of petitioners, or any of them, are- complicated or detailed or other facts which would enable us
to say that petitioners are unable to comply with the statute without expert assistance. Since petitioners' reliance
is upon the burdensome operation of the statute on
them, we are not bound to speculate upon the nature or
extent of the burden. We can hardly make pronouncement on their contentions in a declaratory judgment proceeding where the record does not disclose the extent of
the burden, if any. Whether the information demanded
is so extensive, detailed, and therefore burdensome, as to
pass the bounds of what the state may reasonably require

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

can be determined only in the light of the circumstances
in which the statute is to be applied.
The objection that §§ 7 and 16 of the state statute are
too vague and uncertain to meet constitutional requirements is one which cannot appropriately be considered in
a declaratory judgment proceeding in the federal courts,
in advance of their authoritative construction by a state
court. As we have said, it is the duty of the federal courts
to avoid the unnecessary decision of constitutional questions. Siler v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 213 U. S.
175, 191; Light v. United States, 220 U. S. 523, 538; Blair
v. United States, 250 U. S. 273, 279; Crowell v. Benson, 285
U. S. 22,62, and cases cited. But the use of the declaratory
judgment procedure to test the validity of a state statute
for vagueness and uncertainty invites rather than avoids
the unnecessary decision of the constitutional question.
Most courts conceive it to be their duty to construe a
statute, whenever reasonably possible, so that it may be
constitutional rather than unconstitutional. Stephenson
v. Binford, 287 U. S. 251; Moore Ice Cream Co. v. Rose,
289 U. S. 373, 379; Screws v. United States, ante, p. 91, and
cases cited; cf. Spector Motor Co. v. McLaughlin,323 U. S.
101; Ex parte Endo, 323 U. 5. 283. And the Alabama
courts adhere to that rule. Mobile v. Board, 180 Ala. 489,
501, 61 So. 368; cf. Duncanv. Rudulph, 245 Ala. 175, 176,
16 So. 2d 313; Goodman v. Carroll,205 Ala. 305,87 So. 368;
Cloverdale Homes v. Town of Cloverdale, 182 Ala. 419,
62 So. 712. State courts, when given the opportunity by
the presentation to them for decision of an actual case or
controversy, may, and often do, construe state statutes so
that in their application they are not open to constitutional objections which might otherwise be addressed to
them. Cox v. New Hampshire, 312 U. S. 569, 575; compare Schuylkill Trust Co. v. Pennsylvania, 302 U. S. 506
with Schuylkill Trust Co. v. Pennsylvania,296 U. S. 113.
In advance of an authoritative construction of a state

FEDERATION OF LABOR v. McADORY. 471
450

Opinion of the Court.

statute, which the state court alone can make, this Court
cannot know whether the state court, when called on to
apply the statute to a defined case or controversy, may
not construe the statute so as to avoid the constitutional
question. For us to decide the constitutional question by
anticipating such an authoritative construction of the
state statute would be either to decide the question unnecessarily or rest our decision on'the unstable foundation
of our own construction of the state statute which the
state court would not be bound to follow. Spector Motor
Co. v. McLaughlin, supra, 105; see also Vandenbark v.
Owens-Illinois Co., 311 U. S. 538, 543; Huddleston v.
Dwyer, 322 'U. S. 232. Such is not the function of the
declaratory judgment.
The extent to which the declaratory judgment procedure may be used in the federal courts to control state action lies in the sound discretion of the Court. See Great
Lakes Co. v. Huffman, supra. It would be an abuse of
discretion for this Court to make a pronouncement on the
constitutionality of a state statute before it plainly appeared that the necessity for it had arisen, or when the
Court is left in uncertainty, which it cannot authoritatively resolve, as to the meaning of the statute when applied to any particular state of facts. In any event the
parties are free to litigate in the state courts the validity of
the statute when actually applied to any definite state of
facts, with the right of appellate review in this Court.
In the exercise of this Court's discretionary power to grant
or withhold the declaratory judgment remedy it is of controlling significance that it is in the public interest to avoid
the needless determination of constitutional questions and
the needless obstruction to the domestic policy of the
states by forestalling state action in construing and applying its own statutes. See Great Lakes Co. v. Huffman,
supra, 300, et seq.
The contention that the Act denies equal protection because its provisions, or some of them, have not been ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
325 U. S.

Syllabus.

tended to business corporations or associations or to labor
organizations which are subject to the Railway Labor Act,
45 U. S. C. § 151 et seq., is without substance. The Constitution does not oblige a state to regulate or reform all
types of associations and organizations, or none. It may
begin with such as in its judgment most need regulation.
Carroll v. Greenwich Insurance Co., 199 U. S. 401, 411;
Keokee Coke Co. v. Taylor, 234 U. S. 224, 227; Bunting
v. Oregon, 243 U. S. 426; Sproles v. Binford, 286 U. S.
374, 396; cf. West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish,300 U. S.
379, 400, and cases cited. And for this reason it may exclude from regulatory measures organizations which it has
reason to believe are already appropriately regulated by
either state or national legislation. Zifjrin, Inc. v. Reeves,
308 U. S. 132, 140; cf. Union Bank & Trust Co. v. Phelps,
288 U. S. 181, 186.
We would not have granted certiorari to review so unsubstantial a question, and all the other issues, as presented by the record now before us, are, for reasons which
we have given, inappropriate for decision in a declaratory
judgment proceeding. The writ of certiorari will therefore be
Dismissed.
CONGRESS OF INDUSTRIAL

ORGANIZATIONS

ET AL. V. McADORY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 855. Argued April 3, 4, 1945.-Decided June 11, 1945.
1. Decision in this case is controlled by the principles governing Alabama State Federationof Labor v. McAdory, ante, p. 450. P. 477.
2. This Court will not pass upon the constitutionality of legislation
in a suit which is not adversary, or in which there is no actual
antagonistic assertion of rights. P. 475.
3. The Court cannot say that the present proceeding is adversary
as to,§ 7 of the Biadford Act (Alabama Laws of 1943, No. 298)
in view of the agreerne'b by respondents to refrain from enforcing
that section urlti] ita validity is finally dletermined by this Cwrt,

