SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA.

761

Syllabus.

711

Stat. 584, 590, 49 U. S. C. § 16 (1), (2). If a carrier fails
to comply with a reparation order, as is true of non-compliance with an Adjustment Board award, the complainant
may sue in court for enforcement; the Commission's order
and findings and evidence then become prima facie evidence of the facts stated. But a denial of a money claim
by the Interstate Commerce Commission bars the door to
redress in the courts. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Brady,
288 U. S. 448; I. C. C. v. United States, 289 U. S. 385, 388;
Terminal Warehouse v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 297 U. S.
500, 507.
The Railway Labor Act precludes review of the Board's
award; and, since authorization of the Broth-erhood officials to make the settlement is not now open to judicial
inquiry, the judgment calls for reversal.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR.
JUSTICE JACKSON join in this dissent.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA

EX REL.

SULLIVAN, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ARIZONA.

No. 56.

Argued March 26, 27, 1945.-Decided June 18, 1945.

1. State power to regulate the length of railroad trains is not curtailed or superseded by § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act (paragraphs 10-17) of itself, and in the absence of administrative implementation by the Interstate Commerce Commission; nor by
provisions of the Safety Appliance Act for brakes on trains; nor
by the provision of § 25 of Part I of the Interstate Commerce Act
permitting the Commission to order the installation of train stop
and control devices. Pp. 765-766.
In enacting legislation within its constitutional authority over
interstate commerce, Congress will not be deemed to have intended
-to strike down a state statute designed to protect the health and
safety of the public unless its purpose to do so is clearly manifested;
or unless the state law, in terms or in its practical administration,

762

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

325 U. S.

conflicts with the Act of Congress or plainly and palpably infringes
its policy. P. 766.
2. The Arizona Train Limit Law (Arizona Code Ann., 1939, § 69-119),
making it unlawful to operate within the State a passenger train
of more than fourteen cars or a freight train of more than seventy
cars, held, as applied to interstate trains, invalid as contravening
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 763, 781.
3. The commerce clause, even without the aid of Congressional legislation, protects against state legislation which is inimical to the
national commerce; and in such cases, where Congress has not
acted, this Court, and not the state legislature, is the final arbiter
of the competing demands of state and national interests. P. 769.
4. Although this Court, upon review of a decision of a state court,
may determine for itself the facts upon which an asserted federal
right depends, the crucial findings Of the state court here are
not challenged in material particulars, are supported by evidence,
and supply an adequate basis for decision of the constitutional
issue presented. P. 771.
5. The state regulation here involved, admittedly obstructive to
interstate train operation, and having a seriously adverse effect on
transportation efficiency and economy, passes beyond what is
plainly essential for safety, since it does not appear that it will
lessen rather than increase the danger of accident. Examination
of all relevant factors makes it plain that the state interest here
asserted is outweighed by the interest of the nation in an adequate,
economical and efficient railway transportation service. P. 781.
6. The relative weights of the state and national interests involved
are not such as to make inappiicable the rule, generally observed,
that the free flow of interstate commerce and its freedom from
local restraints in matters requiring uniformity of regulation are
interests safeguarded by the commerce clause from state interference. Pp. 770, 781.
7. The full-train-crew cases and South Carolina Highway Dept. v.
Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177, distinguished. P. 782.
61 Ariz. 66, 145 P. 2d 530, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment upholding the constitutionality of the Arizona Train Limit Law.

Messrs. Burton Mason and J. Carter Fort argued the
cause, and Messrs. Cleon T. Knapp and C. W. Durbrow

were with Mr. Mason on the brief, for appellant.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA.
761

763

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Harold N. McLaughlin and Harold C. Heiss
argued the cause, and Joe Conway, Attorney General of
Arizona, Earl Anderson, Assistant Attorney General, and
Mr. Charles L. Strouss were with Mr. McLaughlin on the
brief, for appellee.
Mr. Robert L. Stern, with whom Solicitor General Fahy
and Mrs. CarolynR. Just were on the brief, for the United
States, as amicus curiae, urging reversal.
Messrs. J. CarterFort and Thomas Reed Powell filed a
brief on behalf of the Association of American Railroads,
as amicus curiae, urging reversal.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Arizona Train Limit Law of May 16, 1912, Arizona
Code Ann., 1939, § 69-119, makes it unlawful for any
person or corporation to operate within the state a railroad train of more than fourteen passenger or seventy
freight cars, and authorizes the state to recover a money
penalty for each violation of the Act. The questions for
decision are whether Congress has, by legislative enactment, restricted the power of the states to regulate the
length of interstate trains as a safety measure- and, if not,
whether the statute contravenes the commerce clause of
the Federal Constitution.
In 1940 the State of Arizona brought suit in the Arizona
Superior Court against appellant, the Southern Pacific
Company, to recover the statutory penalties for operating
within the state two interstate trains, one a passenger
train of more than fourteen cars, and one a freight train
of more than seventy cars. Appellant answered, admitting the train operations, but defended on the ground
that the statute offends against the commerce clause and
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and
conflicts with federal legislation. After an extended trial,

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

without a jury, the court made detailed findings of fact
on the basis of which it gave judgment for the railroad
company. The Supreme Court of Arizona reversed and
directed judgment for the state. 61 Ariz. 66, 145 P. 2d
530. The case comes here on appeal under § 237 (a) of
the Judicial Code, appellant raising by its assignments
of error the questions presented here for decision.
The Supreme Court left undisturbed the findings of the
trial court and made no new findings. It held that the
power of the state to regulate the length of interstate
trains had not been restricted by Congressional action.
It sustained the Act as a safety measure to reduce the
number of accidents attributed to the operation of trains
of more than the statutory maximum length, enacted by
the state legislature in the exercise of its "police power."
This power the court held extended to the regulation of
the operations of interstate commerce in the interests of
local health, safety and well-being. It thought that a state
statute, enacted in the exercise of the police power, and
bearing some reasonable relation to the health, safety and
well-being of the people of the state, of which the state
legislature is the judge, was not to be judicially overturned, notwithstanding its admittedly adverse effect on
the operation of interstate trains.
Purporting to act under § 1, paragraphs 10-17 of the
Interstate Commerce Act, 24 Stat. 379 as amended (49
U. S. C. § 1 et seq.), the Interstate Commerce Commission, as of September 15, 1942, promulgated as an emergency measure Service Order 'No. 85, 7 Fed. Reg. 7258,
suspending the operation of state train limit laws for the
duration of the war, and denied an application to set aside
the order. In the Matter of Service Order No. 85, 256
I. C. C. 523., Paragraph 15 of § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act empowers the Commission, when it is "of opinion that shortage of equipment, congestion of traffic, or
other emergency requiring immediate action exists in any

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA.
761

7G5

Opinion of the Court.

section of the country," to make or suspend rules and
practices "with respect to car service," which includes by
paragraph 10 of § 1 "the use, control, supply, movement,
distribution, exchange, interchange, and return" of locomotives and cars, and the "supply of trains." Paragraph
16 of § 1 provides that when a carrier is unable properly
to transport the traffic offered, the Commission may make
reasonable directions "with respect to the handling, routing, and movement of the traffic of such carrier and its distribution over other lines of roads." The authority of
the Commission to make Order No. 85 is currently under
attack in Johnston v. UnitedStates, Civil Action No. 1408,
pending in the Western District of Oklahoma.
The Commission's order was not in effect in 1940 when
the present suit was brought for violations of the state
law in that year, and the Commission's order is inapplicable to the train operations here charged as violations.
Hence the question here is not of the effect of the Commission's order, which we assume for purposes of decision
to be valid, but whether the grant of power to the Commission operated to supersede the state act before the
Commission's order. We are of opinion that, in the
absence of administrative implementation by the Commission, § 1 does not of itself curtail state power to regulate train lengths. The provisions under which the
Commission purported to act, phrased in broad and general language, do not in terms deal with that subject. We
do not gain either from their words or from the legislative
history any hint that Congress in enacting them intended,
apart from Commission action, to supersede state laws
regulating train lengths. We ;an hardly suppose that
Congress, merely by conferring authority on the Commission to regulate car service in an "emergency," intended
to restrict the exercise, otherwise lawful, of state power
to regulate train lengths before the Commission finds an
"emergency" to exist.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Congress, in enacting legislation within its constitutional authority over interstate commerce, will not be
deemed to have intended to strike down a state statute
designed to protect the health and safety of the public
unless its purpose to do so is clearly manifested, Reid v.
Colorado, 187 U. S. 137, 148; Missouri Pacific R. Co. v.
LarabeeMills, 211 U. S. 612,621, et seq.; Missouri, K. & T.
R. Co. v. Harris,234 U. S. 412,418-419; Welch Co. v. New
Hampshire,306 U. S. 79, 85; Allen-Bradley Local v. Board,
315 U. S. 740, 749, or unless the state law, in terms or
in its practical administration, conflicts with the Act of
Congress, or plainly and palpably infringes its policy.
Sinnot v. Davenport, 22 How. 227, 243; Missouri,-K. &
T. R. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613, 623; Savage v. Jones,
225 U. S. 501, 533; Carey v. South Dakota, 250 U. S. 118,
122; Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co. v. Railroad Comm'n,
283 U. S. 380, 391; Townsend v. Yeomans, 301 U. S.
441, 454.
The contention, faintly urged, that the provisions of the
Safety Appliance Act, 45 U. S. C. §§ 1 and 9, providing for
brakes on trains, and of § 25 of Part I of the Interstate
Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C. § 26 (b), permitting the Commission to order the installation of train stop and control
devices, operate of their own force to exclude state regulation of train lengths, has even less support. Congress,
although asked to do so,- has declined to pass legislation
specifically limiting trains to seventy cars. We are
therefore brought to appellant's principal contention, that
the state statute contravenes the commerce clause of the
Federal Constitution.
Although the commerce clause conferred on the national government power to regulate commerce, its possession of the power does not exclude all state power of
regulation. Ever since Willson v. Black-Bird Creek Marsh
See Senate Report No. 416, 75th Cong., 1st Sess.; 81 Cong. Rec.
7596; and Hearings before House Committee on Interstate and
Foreign Commerce, 75th Cong., 3d Sess., S. 69, Train Lengths.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA.
761

767

Opinion of the Court.

Co., 2 Pet. 245, and C'oley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How.
299, it has been recognized that, -in the absence of conflicting legislation by Congress, there is a residuum of power
in the state to make laws governing matters of local concern which nevertheless in some measure affect interstate
commerce or even, to some extent, regulate it. Minnesota
Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 399-400; South CarolinaHighway Dept. vi Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177, 187, et seq.;
Californiav. Thompson, 313 U. S. 109, 113-14 and cases
cited; Parker v. Brown, 317 U. S. 341, 359-60. Thus the
states may regulate matters which, because of their number'and diversity, may never be adequately dealt with by
Congress* Cooley v. Board of Wardens, supra,319; South
CarolinaHighway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., supra, 185;
Californiav. Thompson, supra, 113; Duckworth v. Arkansas, 314 U. S.390, 394; Parker v. Brown, supra,362, 363.
When the regulation of matters of local concern is local
in character and effect, and its impact on the national
commerce does not seriously interfere with its operation,
and the consequent incentive to deal with them nationally
is slight, such regulation has been generally held to be
within state authority. South Carolina Highway Dept.
v. Barnwell Bros., supra, 188 and cases cited; Lone Star
Gas Co. v. Texas, 304 U. S.224, 238; Milk Board v. Eisenberg Co., 306 U. S. 346, 351; Maurer v. Hamilton, 309U. S.
598, 603; Californiav. Thompson, supra, 113-14 and cases
cited.
But ever since Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, the states
have not been deemed to have authority to impede substantially the free flow of commerce from state to state,
or to regulate those phases of the national commerce
which, because of the need of national uniformity, demand
that their regulation, if any, be prescribed by a single authority. 2 Cooley v. Board of Wardens, supra, 319; Leisy
2 In applying this rule the Court has often recognized that to the
extent that the burden of state regulation falls on interests outside

768

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, 108, 109; Minnesota Rate Cases,
supra, 399-400; Edwards v. California,314 U. S. 160, 176.
Whether or not this long-recognized distribution of power
between the national and the state governments is predicated upon the implications of the commerce clause
itself, Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 447; Minnesota
Rate Cases, supra, 399, 400; Pennsylvania v. West
Virginia, 262 U. S. 553, 596; Baldwin v. Seelig, 294
U. S. 511, 522; South CarolinaHighway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., supra, 185, or upon the presumed intention
of Congress, where Congress has not spoken, Welton v.
Missouri, 91 U. S. 275, 282; Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485,
490; Brown v. Houston, 114 U.S. 622, 631; Bowman v.
Chicago & N. W. R. Co., 125 U. S. 465, 481-2; Leisy v.
Hardin, supra, 109; In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545, 559-60;
Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289, 302; Covington & C.
Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204, 212; Graves v.
New York ex rel. O'Keefe, 306 U. S. 466, 479, n., Dowling,
Interstate Commerce and State Power, 27 Va. Law Rev.
1, the result is the same.
In the application of these principles some enactments
may be found to be plainly within and others plainly without state power. But between these extremes lies the
infinite variety of cases, in which regulation of local matters may also operate as a regulation of commerce, in
which reconciliation of the conflicting claims of state and
the state, it is unlikely to be alleviated by the operation of those
political restraints normally exerted when interests within the state are
affected. Cooley v. Board of Wardens, supra, 315; Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713, 731; Escanaba Co. v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678,
683; Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing Dist., 120 U. S. 489, 499;
Lake Shore & M. S. R. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285, 294; South Carolina Highway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros. supra, 185, n.; McGoldrick v.
Berwind-White Co., 309 U. S. 33, 46, n.; cf. McCulloch v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316, 428; Pound v. Turck, 95 U. S. 459, 464; Gloucester
Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196, 205; Helvering v. Gerhardt,
304 U. S. 405, 412.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA.
761

769

Opinion of the Court.

national power is to be attained only by some appraisal
and accommodation of the competing demands of the
state and national interests involved. Parker v. Brown,
supra, 362; Terminal Railroad Assn. v. Brotherhood, 318
U. S. 1, 8; see DiSanto v. Pennsylvania, 273 U. S. 34, 44
(and, compare California v. Thompson, supra); Illinois
Gas Co. v. Public Service Co., 314 U. S. 498, 504-5.
For a hundred years it has been accepted constitutional
doctrine that the commerce clause, without the aid of
Congressional legislation, thus affords some protection
from state legislation inimical to the national commerce,
and that in such cases, where Congress has not acted, this
Court, and not the state legislature, is under the commerce clause the final arbiter of the competing demands
of state and national interests. Cooley v. Board of
Wardens, supra; Kansas City Southern R. Co. v. Kaw
Valley District,233 U. S. 75, 79; South Covington R. Co.
v. Covington, 235 U. S. 537, 546; Missouri, K. & T. R.
Co. v. Texas, 245 U. S. 484, 488; St. Louis & S. F. R.
Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 254 U. S. 535, 537; FosterFountainPacking Co. v. Haydel, 278 U. S. 1, 10; Gwin,
White & Prince v. Henneford, 305 U.-S. 434, 441; McCarrollv. Dixie Lines, 309 U. S.176.
Congress has undoubted power to redefine the distribution of power over interstate commerce. It may either
permit the states to regulate the commerce in a manner
which would otherwise not be permissible, In re Rahrer,
supra, 561-62; Adams Express Co. v. Kentucky, 238 U. S.
190, 198; Rosenbergerv. Pacific Express Co., 241 U. S. 48,
50, 51; Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland R. Co.,
242 U. S. 311, 325-6; Whitfield v. Ohio, 297 1j: S. 431,
438-40; Kentucky Whip & Collar Co. v. Illinois Central
R. Co., 299 U. S. 334, 350-51; Hooven & Allison Co. v.
Evatt, 324 U. S. 652, 679, or exclude state regulation even
of matters of peculiarly local concern which nevertheless
affectinterstate commerce. Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v.

770

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

United States, 175 U. S. 211, 230; Louisville & Nashville
R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467; Houston, E. & W. T. R.
Co. v. United States, 234 U. S. 342; American Express
Co. v. Caldwell, 244 U. S. 617, 626; Illinois Central R.
Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 245 U. S. 493, 506; New
York v. United States, 257 U. S. 591, 601; LouisianaPublic
Service Comm'n' v Texas & N. 0. R. Co., 284 U. S. 125,
130; Pennsylvania R. Co. v.Illinois Prick Co., 297 U. S.
447, 459.
But in general Congress has left it to the courts to
formulate the rules thus interpreting the commerce clause
in its application, doubtless because it has appreciated
the destructive consequences to the commerce of the
nation if their protection were withdrawn, Gwin, White &
'Princev. Henneford, supra,441, and has been aware that
in their application state 'laws will not be invalidated
without the support of relevant factual material which
'will "afford a sure basis" for an informed judgment.
Terminal RailroadAssn. v. Brotherhood, supra,8;.Southern R. Co. v. King, 217 U. S. 524. Meanwhile, Congress
has accommodated its legislation, as have the states, to
these rules as an established feature of our constitutional
system. There has thus been left to the states wide scope
for the regulation of matters of local state concern, even
though it in some measure affects the commerce, provided
it does not materially restrict the free flow of commerce
across state lines, or interfere with it in matters with
respect to which uniformity of regulation is of predomi-.
nant national concern.
Hence the matters for ultimate determination here are
the nature and extent of the burden which the state regulation of interstate trains, adopted as a safety measure,
imposes on interstate commerce, and whether the relative'
weights of the state and national interests involved are
such as to make inapplicable the rule, generally observed,
that the free flow of interstate commerce and its freedom

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA.
761

771

Opinion of the Court.

from local restraints in matters requiring uniformity of
regulation are interests safeguarded by the -commerce
clause from state interference.
. While this Court is not bound by the findings of the
'state court, and may determine for itself the facts of a
case upon which an asserted federal right depends, Hooven
& Allison Co. v. Evatt, supra, p. 659, and cases cited, the
facts found by the state trial court showing the nature of
the interstate commerce involved, and the effect upon it
of the train limit law, are not seriously questioned. Its
findings with respect to the need for and effect of the
statute as a safety measure, although challenged in some
particulars which we do not regard as material to our decision, are likewise supported by evidence. Taken -together
the findings supply an adequate basis for decision of the
constitutional issue.
The findings show that the operation of long trains, that
is trains of more than fourteen passenger and more than
seventy freight cars, is standard practice over the main
lines of the railroads of the United States, and that, if the
length of trains is to be regulated at all, national uniformity in the regulation adopted, such as only Congress
can prescribe, is practically indispensable to the operation
of an efficient and economical national railway system.
On many railroads passenger trains of more than fourteen
cars and'freight trains of more than seventy cars are operated, and.on some systems freight trains are run ranging
from one hundred and twenty-five to one hundred and
sixty cars in length. Outside of Arizona, where the length.
of trains is not restricted, appellant runs a substantial proportion of long trains. In 1939 on its comparable route
for through traffic through Utah and Nevada from 66 to
85% of its freight trains were over seventy cars in length
and over 43% of its passenger trains included more than
fourteen passenger cars.
In Arizona, approximately 93% of the freight traffic
and 95% of the passenger traffic is interstate. Because

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

of the Train Limit Law appellant is required to haul
over 30% more trains in Arizona than would otherwise
have been necessary. The record shows a definite relationship between operating costs and the length of trains,
the increase in length resulting in a reduction of operating
costs per car. The additional- cost of operation of trains
complying with the Train Limit Law .in Arizona amounts
for the two railroads traversing that state to about
$1,000,000 a year. The reduction in train lengths also
impedes efficient operation. More locomotives and more
manpower are required; the necessary conversion and
reconversion of train lengths at terminals and the delay
caused by breaking up and remaking long trains upon
entering and leaving the state in order to comply with
the law, delays the traffic and diminishes its volume moved
in a given time, especially when traffic is heavy.
To relieve the railroads of these burdens, during the
war emergency only, the Interstate Commerce Commission, acting under § I of the Interstate Commerce Act,
suspended the operation of the state law for the duration
of the war by its order of September 15, 1942, to which
we have referred. In support of the order the Commission declared: "It was desigried to save manpower,
motive power, engine-miles and train-miles; to avoid
'delay in the movement of trains; to increase the efficient
use of locomotives and cars and to augment the available
supply thereof; and to relieve congestion at terminals
caused by setting out and picking up cars on each side
of the train-limit law States." In the Matter of Service
Order No. 85, 256 I. C. C. 523, 524. Appellant, because
of its past compliance with the Arizona Train Limit Law,
has been unable to avail itself fully of the benefits of the
suspension order because some of its equipment and the
length of its sidings in Arizona are not suitable for the
operation of long trains. Engines capable of hauling
long trains were not in service. It can engage in long

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA.
761

773

Opinion of the Court.

train operations to the best advantage only by rebuilding
its road to some extent and by changing or adding to its
motive power equipment, which it desires to do in order
to secure more efficient .and economical operation of its
trains.
The unchallenged findings leave no doubt that the
Arizona Train Limit Law imposes a serious burden on the
interstate commerce conducted by appellant. It materially impedes the movement of appellant's interstate
trains through that state and interposes a substantial obstruction to the national policy proclaimed by Congress,
to promote adequate, economical and efficient railway
transportation service. Interstate Commerce Act, preceding § 1, 54 Stat. 899. Enforcement of the law in Arizona, while train lengths remain unregulated or are regulated by varying standards in other states, must inevitably
result in an impairment of uniformity of efficient railroad
operation because the railroads are subjected to regulation
which is not uniform in its application. Compliance with
a state statute limiting train lengths requires interstate
trains of a length lawful in other states to be broken up
and reconstituted as they enter each state according as it
may impose varying limitations upon train lengths. The
alternative is for the carrier to conform to the lowest train
limit restriction of any of the states through which its
trains pass, whose laws thus control the carriers' operations
both within and without the regulating state.
Although the seventy car maximum foi freight trains
is the limitation which has been most commonly proposed,
various bills introduced in the state legislatures -provided
for maximum freight train lengths of from fifty to one
hundred and twenty-five cars, and maximum passenger
train lengths of from ten to eighteen cars.' With such
3One hundred sixty-four bills limiting train lengths have been introduced in state legislatures since 1920, of which only three were passed,

774

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S;

laws in force in states which are interspersed with those
having no limit on train lengths, the confusion and difficulty with which interstate operations would be burdened
under the varied system of state regulation and the unsatisfied need for uniformity in such regulation, if any, are
evident.' ,A
At present the seventy freight car laws are enforced
only in Arizona and Oklahoma, with a fourteen car passenger car limit in Arizona. The record here shows that
the enforcement of the Arizona statute results in freight
trains being broken up and reformed at the California
border and in New Mexico, s6me distance from the Arizona
line. Frequently it is not feasible to operate a newly
assembled train from the New Mexico yard nearest to
Arizona, with the result that the Arizona limitation
governs the flow of traffic as far east as El Paso, Texas.
For similar reasons the Arizona law often controls the
in Nevada, Louisiana and Oklahoma. The Nevada and Louisiana
laws were held unconstitutional and never enforced. Southern Pacific
Co. v. Mashburn, 18 F. Supp. 393; 'Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Martin
(No. 428-Equity, E. D. of La. 1936), unreported. The Arizona law,
passed in 1912, was held unconstitutional in Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co.
v. La Prade,2 F. Supp. 855, reversed on other grounds, 289 U. S. 444.
4 Had these bills been passed a freight train running over established
routes (from Virginia to Michigan for example) would normally proceed through states with a seventy-five car maximum (Virginia), a
one hundred and twenty-five car maximum (West Virginia), a three
thousand foot maximum (Ohio), and a seventy car limit (Michigan).
A train from Arkansas to Wisconsin might be subjected to a fifty car
maximum (Arkansas), one-half mile (Mississippi), three thousand
feet (Iowa), one and a half miles (Minnesota), and thirty-three hundred feet (Wisconsin). A train running from Nebraska to California
might be subject to a sixty, seventy-five or eighty-five maximum in
Nebraska, to a limit fixed by commission in Kansas, to a sixty-five
car limit in Colorado, to a seventy-five car limit in New Mexico, to a
seventy car limit in Arizona, and to a seventy-four car limit in California. A passenger train might be limited to fourteen cars in New
Jersey, ten in Pennsylvania and eighteen in West Virginia.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA.
761

775

Opinion of the Court.

length of passenger trains all the way from Los Angeles
to El Paso.5
If one state may iegulate train lengths, so may all the
others, and they need not prescribe the same maximum
limitation. The practical effect of such regulation is to
control train operations beyond the boundaries of the
state exacting it because of the,necessity of breaking up
and reassembling long trains a the nearest terminal points'
before entering and after leaving the regulating state.
The serious impediment to the free flow of commerce by
the local regulation of train lengths and the practical
necessity that such regulation, if any, must be prescribed
by a single body having a nation-wide authority are
apparent.
The trial court found that the Arizona law had-no reasonable relation to safety, and made train operation more
dangerous. Examination of the evidence and the detailed
findings makes it clear that this conclusion was rested on
facts found which indicate that such increased danger
of accident and personal injury as may result from the
greater length of trains is more than offset by the increase
in the number of accidents resulting from the larger
number of trains when train lengths are reduced. In
considering the effect of the statute as a safety measure,
therefore, the factor of controlling significance for present
purposes is not whether there is basis for the conclusion
of the Arizona Supreme (ourt that the increase in length
of trains beyond the statutory maximum has an adverse
effect upon safety of operation. The decisive question'
is whether in the circumstances the total effect of the
In Oklahoma three lines running from Chicago or Kansas City
•west pass through Oklahoma for distances of sixty, one hundred and
seventeen and one hundred -and forty-three miles. Since no other
state through which the traffic passes (except Arizona) restricts train
lengths in any way, the effect of the Oklahoma law is to require
through trains -to be broken up for the short distances they pass
through that .state:

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

law as a safety measure in reducing accidents and casualties is so slight or problematical as not to outweigh the
national interest in keeping interstate commerce free from
interferences which seriously impede it and subject it to
local regulation which does not have a uniform effect on
the interstate train journey which it interrupts.
The principal source of danger of accident from increased length of trains is the resulting increase of "slack
action" of the train. Slack action is the amount of free
movement of one car before it transmits its motion to an
adjoining coupled car. This free movement results from
the fact that in railroad practice cars are loosely coupled,
and the coupling is often combined with a shock-absorbing
device, a "draft gear," which, under stress, substantially
increases the free movement as the, train is started or
stopped. Loose coupling is necessary to enable the train
to proceed freely around curves and is an aid in starting
heavy trains, since the application of the locomotive power
to 'the train operates on each car in the train successively,
and the power is thus utilized to start only one car at
a time..
The slack action between cars due to loose couplings
varies from seven-eighths of an inch to one and one-eighth
inches and, with the added free movement due to the use
of draft gears, may be as high as six or seven inches between cars. The length of the train increases the slack
since the slack action of a train is the total of the free
movement between its several cars. The amount of slack
action has some effect on the severity of the shock of
train movements, -and on freight trains sometimes results
in injuries to operatives, which most frequently occur to
occupants of the caboose. The amount and severity of
slack action, however, are not wholly dependent upon the
length of train, as they may be affected by the mode and
conditions of operation as to grades, speed, and load.
And accidents due to slack action also occur in the opera-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA.
761

777

Opinion of the Court.

tion of short trains. On comparison of the number of
slack action accidents in Arizona with those in Nevada,
where the length of trains is now unregulated, the trial
court found that with substantially the same amount of
traffic in each state the number of accidents was relatively the same in long as in short train operations. While
accidents from slack action do occur in the operation of
passenger trains, it does not appear that they ate more
frequent or the resulting shocks more severe on long than
on short passenger trains. Nor does it appear that slack
action accidents occurring on passenger trains, whatever
their length, are of sufficient severity to cause serious
injury or damage.
As the trial court found, reduction of the length of
trains also tends to increase the number of accidents because of the increase in the number of trains. The application of the Arizona law compelled appellant to operate
30.08%, or 4,304, more freight trains in 1938 than would
otherwise have been necessary. And the record amply
supports the trial court's conclusion that the frequency
of accidents is elosely related to the number of trains run.
The number of accidents due to grade crossing collisions
between trains and motor vehicles and pedestrians, and to
collisions between trains, which are usually far more serious than those due to slack action, and accidents due to
locomotive failures, in general vary with the number of
trainsO Increase in the number of trains results in more
starts and stops, more "meets" and "passes," and more
switching movements, all tending to increase the number
*The record shows that in 1939 the number of slack accident
casualties in the United States, 399, was only 6% of the number of
train and train service casualties to railroad employees, 6,713. In
that year three of the 399 slack accident casualties wefe fatal, whereas
the aflrage number of gryd. crossing casualties per year from 1935
to 1939 was 5,718. AndA D39, 1,398 persons were killed and 3,999
were injurecd in highway, gre crossing accidents. I. C. C., Bureau
of Stat# fics, Accident Bulletih, No. 108, pp. 22-23.

778

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

of accidents not only to train operatives and other railroad
employees, but to passengers and members of the public
exposed to danger by train operations.
Railroad statistics introduced into the record tend to
show that this is the result of the application of the Arizona Train Limit Law to appellant, both with respect to
all railroad casualties within the state and those affecting
only trainmen whom the train limit law is supposed to
protect. The accident rate in Arizona is much higher than
on comparable lines elsewhere, where there is no regulation of length of trains. The record lends support to the
trial court's conclusion that the train length limitation increased rather than diminished the number of accidents.
This is shown by comparison of appellant's operations in
Arizona with those in Nevada,7 and by comparison of
operations of appellant and of the Santa Fe Railroad in
8
Arizona with those of the same roads in New Mexico,
and by like comparison between appellant's operations in
Arizona and operations throughout the country.'
7 With passenger traffic in Nevada 78% as heavy as in Arizona, from
1923 to 1938 two hundred and thirty-nine casualties were caused to
persons by passenger trains in Arizona and one hundred and nine in
Nevada. Between 1923 and 1939 five persons in Nevada and fourteen
in Arizona were injured by sudden stops or jerks on passenger trains.
8 Caqualties to employees, occurring in freight 'train operations in
New Mexico, have been substantially less in both number and frequency than in Arizona. From 1930 to 1940 there were one hundred
and twenty-nine casualties to all classes of employees in New Mexico
at the rate of 7.97 per million train miles, 12.84 per hundred million
car miles. In Arizona there were two hundred and fifty-one casualties to employees, at the rate of 10.03 per million train miles, and
18.10 per hundred million car miles.
On a national basis the findings show that while the national accident rate per hundred million car miles for all railroad employees and
for trainmn=
decreased 70% to 66% respectively between 1923-1928
and 1935-1940, the rate for the Southern Pacific in Arizona declined
52.3% and 53.3%. Appellant's rate in Nevada decreased 71.1% and
69.1%.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA.
761

779

Opinion of the Court.

Upon an examination of the whole case the trial court
found that "if short-train operation may or should result
in any decrease in the number or severity of the 'slack' or
'slack-surge' type of accidents or casualties, such decrease
is substantially more than offset by the increased number
of accidents and casualties from other causes that follow
the arbitrary limitation of freight trains to 70 cars
and passenger trains to 14 cars."
We think, as the trial court found, that the Arizona
Train Limit Law, viewed as a safety measure, affords
at most slight and dubious advantage, if any, over unregulated train lengths, because it results in an increase in
the. number of trains and train operations and the consequent increase in train accidents of a character generally
more severe than those due to slack action. Its undoubted effect on the commerce is the regulation, without
securing uniformity, of the length of trains operated in
interstate commerce, which lack is itself a primary cause
of preventing the free flow of commerce by delaying it
and by substantially increasing its cost and impairing its
efficiency. In these respects the case differs from those
where a state, by regulatory measures affecting the commerce, has removed or reduced safety hazards without
substantial interference with the interstate movement
of trains. Such are measures abolishing the car stove,
New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v. New York, 165 U. S. 628;
requiring locomotives to be supplied with electric headlights, Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Georgia, 234 U. S.
280; pi oviding for full train crews, Chicago, R. I. & P. R..
Co. v. Arkansas, 219 U. S. 453; St. Louis & I. M. R. Co. v.
Arkansas, 240 U. S. 518; Missouri Pacific R. Co. v. Norwood, 283 U. S. 249; and for the equipment of freight
trains with cabooses, Terminal Railroad Assn. v. Brotherhood, supra.
The principle that, without controlling Congressi6nal
action, a state may not regulate interstate commerce so

780

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

as substantially to affect its flow or deprive it of needed
uniformity in its regulation is not to be avoided by "simply
invoking the convenient apologetics of the police power,"
Kansas City Southern R. Co. v. Kaw Valley District,
supra, 79; Buck v. Kuykendall, 267 U. S. 307, 315. In the
Kaw Valley case the Court held that the state was without
constitutional power to order a railroad to remove a railroad bridge over which its interstate trains passed, as a
means of preventing floods in the district and of improving its drainage, because it was "not pretended that local
welfare needs the removal of the defendants' bridges at
the expense of the dominant requirements of commerce
with other States, but merely that it would be helped, by.
raising them." And in Seaboard Air Line R. Co. v.
Blackwell, 244 U. S. 310, it was held that the interference
with interstate rail transportation resulting from a state
statute requiring as a safety measure that trains come
almost to a stop at grade crossings, outweigh the local
interest in safety, when it appeared that compliance increased the scheduled running time more than six hours
in a distance of one hundred and twenty-three miles. Cf.
Southern R. Co. v. King, supra, where the crossings were
less numerous and the burden to interstate commerce
was not shown to be heavy; and see Erb v. Morasch, 177
U, S.584.
Similarly the commerce clause has been held to invalidate local "police power" enactments fixing the number
of cars in an interstate train and the number of passengers
to be carried in each car, South Covington R. Co. v. Covington, supra, 547; regulating the segregation of colored
passengers in interstate trains, Hall v. DeCuir, supra,
488-9; requiring burdensome intrastate stops of interstate trains, Illinois Central R. Co. v. Illinois, 163 U. S.
142; Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Illinois, 177 U. S.
514; Mississippi Railroad Comm'n v. Illinois Central R.
Co., 203 U. S.335; Herndon v. Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co.,

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA.
761

781

Opinion of the Court.

218 U. S. 135; St. Louis-S. F. R. Co. v. Public Service
Comm'n, 261 U. S. 369; requiring an interstate railroad to
detour its through passenger trains for the benefit of a
small city, St. Louis & S. F. R. -Co. v. Public Service
Comm'n, supra; interfering with interstate commerce by
requiring interstate trains to leave on time, Missouri,K. &
T. R. Co. v. Texas, 245 U. S. 484; regulating car distribution to interstate shippers, St. Louis S. W. R. Co. v. Arkansas, 217 U. S.136; or establishing venue provisions requiring railroads to defend accident suits at points distant from
the place of injury and the residence and activities of the
parties, Davis v. FarmersCo-operative Co., 262 U. S. 312;
Michigan Central R. Co. v. Mix, 278 U. S. 492; cf. Denver
& R. G. W. R. Co. v. Terte, 284 U. S. 284; see also Buck v.
Kuykendall, supra; Foster-FountainPacking Co. v. Haydel, supra; Baldwin v. Seelig, supra, 524; South Carolina
Highway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., supra, 184-5 n., and
cases cited.
More recently in Kelly v. Washington, 302 U. S. 1, 15,
we have pointed out that when a state goes beyond safety
measures which -re permissible because only local in their
effect upon interstate commerce, and "attempts to impose
particular standards as to structure, design, equipment
and operation [of vessels plying interstate] which in the
judgment of its authorities may be desirable but pass be,yond what is plainly essential to safety and seaworthiness,
the.State will encounter the principle that such requirements, if imposed at all, must be through the action of
Congress which can establish a uniform rule. Whether
the State in a particular matter goes too far must be left
to be determined when the precise question arises."
Here we conclude that the state does go too far. Its
regulation of train lengths, admittedly obstructive to interstate train operation, and having a seriously adverse
effect on transportation efficiency and economy, passes
beyond what is plainly essential for safety since it does

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

not appear that it will lessen rather than increase the
danger of accident. Its attempted regulation of the operation of interstate trains cannot establish nation-wide
control such as is essential to the maintenance of an efficient transportation system, which Congress alone can prescribe. The state interest cannot be preserved at the expense of the national interest by an enactment which
regulates interstate train lengths without securing such
control, which is a matter of national concern. To this
the interest of the state here asserted is subordinate.
Appellees especially rely on the full train crew cases,
Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co. v. Arkansas, supra; St. Louis &
I. M. R. Co. v. Arkansas, supra;Missouri Pacific R. Co. v.
Norwood, supra, and also on South Carolina Highway
Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., supra, as supporting the state's
authority to regulate -the length of interstate trains.
While the full train crew laws undoubtedly placed an
added financial burden on the railroads in order to serve
a local interest, they did not obstruct interstate transportation or seriously impede it. They had no effects outside
the state beyond those of picking up and setting down the
extra employees at the state boundaries; they involved
no wasted use of facilities or serious impairment of transportation efficiency, which are among the factors of controlling weight here. In sustaining those laws the Court
considered the restriction a minimal burden on the
commerce comparable to the law requiring the licensing
of engineers as a safeguard against those of reckless and
intemperate habits, sustained in Smith v. Alabama, 124
U. S. 465, or those afflicted with color blindness, upheld
in Nashville, C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96,
and other similar regulations. New York, N. H. & H. R.
Co. v. New York, supra; Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v.
Georgia, supra; cf. County of Mobile v. Kimball, 102
U. S. 691.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA.
761

783

Opinion of the Court.

South CarolinaHighway Dept. V. Barnwell Bros., 8upra,
was concerned with the power of the state to regulate the
weight and width of motor cars passing interstate over its
highways, a legislative field over which the state has a
far more extensive control than over interstate railroads.
In that case, and in Maurer v. Hamilton, supra,we were
at pains to point out that there are few subjects of state
regulation affecting interstate commerce which are so
peculiarly of local concern as is the use of the state's highways. Unlike the railroads local highways are built,
owned and maintained by the state or its municipal subdivisions. The state is responsible for their safe and
economical administration. Regulations affecting the
safety of their use must be applied alike to intrastate and
interstate traffic. The fact that they affect alike shippers
in interstate and intrastate commerce in great numbers,
within as well as without the state, is a safeguard against
regulatory abuses. Their regulation is akin to quaraitine measures, game laws, and like local regulations of
rivers, harbors, piers, and docks, with respect to which
the state has exceptional scope for the exercise of its
regulatory power, and which, Congress not acting, have
been sustained even though they materially interfere with
interstate commerce (303 U. S. at 187-188 and cases
cited).
The contrast between the present regulation and the
full train crew laws in point of their effects on the commerce, and the like contrast with the highway safety
regulations, in point of the nature of the subject of regulation and the state's interest in it, illustrate and
emphasize the considerations which enter into a determination of the relative weights of state and national
interests where state regulation affecting interstate commerce is attempted. Here examination of all the relevant
factors makes it plain that the state interest is outweighed'
by the interest of the nation in an adequate, economical

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACx, J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

and efficient railway transportation service, which must
prevail.
Reversed.
MR.

JusTicE RuTLF rE concurs in the result.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting.
In Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299, 304, a case
which involved the power of a state to regulate interstate
traffic, this Court said, "The whole theory of our government, federal and state, is hostile to the idea that questions of legislative authority may depend . . . upon opinions of judges as to the wisdom or want of wisdom in the
enactment of laws under powers clearly conferred upon the
legislature." What the Court decides today is that it is
unwise governmental policy to regulate the length of
trains. I am therefore constrained to note my dissent.
For more than a quarter of a century, railroads and their
employees have engaged in controversies over the relative
virtues and dangers of long trains. Railroads have argued
that they could carry goods and passengers cheaper in
long trains than in short trains. They have also argued
that while the danger of personal injury to their employees might in some respects be greater on account of
the operation of long trains, this danger was more than
offset by an increased number of accidents from other
causes brought about by the operation of a much larger
number of short trains. These arguments have been, and
are now, vigorously denied. While there are others, the'
chief causes assigned for the belief that long trains unnecessarily jeopardize the lives and limbs of railroad employees relate to "slack action." Cars coupled together
retain a certain free play of movement, ranging between
11/2 inches and 1 foot, and this is called "slack action."
Train brakes do not ordinarily apply or release sixnltaneously on all cars. This frequently results in a severe

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA.
761

785

BLACK, J., dissenting.

shock or jar to cam, particularly those in the rear of a
train. It has always been the position of the employees
that the dangers from "slack action" correspond to and
are proportionate with the length of the train. The argument that "slack movements" are more dangerous in long
trains than in short trains seems never to have been denied.
The railroads have answered it by what is in effect a plea
of confession and avoidance. They say that the added
cost of running short trains places an unconstitutional
burden on interstate commerce. Their second answer is
that the operation of short trains requires the use of more
separate train units; that a certain number of accidents
resulting in injury are inherent in the operation of
each unit, injuries which may be inflicted either on employees or on the public; consequently, they have asserted
that it is not in the public interest to prohibit the operation of long trains.
In 1912, the year Arizona became a state, its legislature
adopted and referred to the people several safety measures concerning the operatibn of railroads. One of these
required railroads to install electric headlights, a power
which the state had under this Court's opinion in Atlantic
Coast Line R. Co. v. Georgia, 234 U. S. 280. Another
Arizona safety statute submitted at the same time required certain tests and service before a person could act
as an engineer or train conductor, and thereby exercised
a state power similar to that which this Court upheld in
Nashville, C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96.
The third safety statute which the Arizona legislature
submitted to the electorate, and which was adopted by
it, is the train limitation statute now under consideration.
By its enactment the legislature and the people adopted
the viewpoint that long trains were more dangerous than
short trains, and limited the operation of train units to
14 cars for passenger and 70 cars for freight. This same
question was considered in other states, and some of them,

786

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

over the vigorous protests of railroads, adopted laws
similar to the Arizona statute.1
This controversy between the railroads and their employees, which was nation-wide, was carried to Congress.
Extensive hearings took place. The employees' position
was urged by members of the various Brotherhoods. The
railroads' viewpoint was presented through representatives of their National Association. In 1937, the Senate
Interstate Commerce Committee after its own exhaustive
hearings unanimously recommended that trains be limited to 70 cars as a safety measure.2 The Committee in
its Report reviewed the evidence and specifically referred
to the large'and increasing number of injuries and deaths
suffered by railroad employees; it concluded that the admitted danger from slack movement was greatly intensified
by the operation of long trains; that short trains reduce
this danger; that the added cost of short trains to the
railroad was no justification for jeopardizing the safety of
railroad employees; and that the legislation would provide a greater degree of safety for persons and property,
increase protection for railway employees and the public,
and improve transportation services for shippers and consumers. The Senate passed the bill 3 but the House
Committee failed to report it out.
During the hearings on that measure, frequent references were made to the Arizona statute. It is significant,
however, that American railroads never once asked Congress to exercise its unquestioned power to enact uniform
legislation on that subject, and thereby invalidate the
IA r~sum6 of these laws and their reception by the courts is set
out in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Arizona in this case, 61
Ariz. 66, 145 P. 2d 530. •
2Senate Report No. 416, 75th Cong., 1st Sess.
881 Cong. Rec. 7596. The record does not show any dissenting
votes cast against the bill. The debate on the measure appears at
pp. 7564-7595.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA.
761

787

BLACK, J., dissenting.

Arizona law. That which for some unexplained reason
they did not ask Congress to do when it had the very subject of train length limitations under consideration, they
shortly thereafter asked an Arizona state court to do.
In the state court a rather extraordinary "trial" took
place. Charged with violating the law, the railroad admitted the charge. It alleged that the law was unconstitutional, however, and sought a trial of facts on that
issue. The essence of its charge of unconstitutionality
rested on one of these two grounds: (1) the legislature
and people of Arizona erred in 1912 in determining that
the running of long trains was dangerous; or (2) railroad
conditions had so improved since 1912 that previous dangers did not exist to the same extent, and that the statute
should be stricken down either because it cast an undue
burden on interstate commerce by reason of the added
cost, or because the changed conditions had rendered the
Act "arbitrary and unreasonable." Thus, the issue which
the court "tried" was not whether the railroad was guilty
of violating the law, but whether the law was unconstitutional either because the legislature had been guilty of
misjudging the facts concerning the degree of the danger
of long trains, or because the 1912 conditions of danger
no longer existed.
Before the state trial court finally determined that the
dangers found by the legislature in 1912 no longer existed,
it heard evidence over a period of 512 months which appears in about 3,000 pages of the printed record before us.
It then adopted findings of fact submitted to it by the
railroad, which cover 148 printed pages, and conclusions
of law which cover 5 pages. We can best understand the
nature of this "trial" by analogizing the same procedure
to a defendant charged with violating a state or national
safety appliance act, where the defendant comes into
court and admits violation of the act. In such cases, the
ordinary procedure would be for the court to pass upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

the constitutionality of the act, and either discharge or
convict the defendants. The procedure here, however,
would justify quite a different trial method. Under it, a
defendant is permitted to offer voluminous evidence to
show that a legislative body has erroneously resolved
disputed facts in finding a danger great enough to justify
the passage of the law. This new pattern of trial procedure makes it necessary for a judge to hear all the evidence offered as to why a legislature passed a law and to

make findings of fact as to the validity of those reasons.
If under today's ruling a court does make findings, as to

a danger contrary to the findings of the legislature, and
the evidence heard "lends support" to those findings, a
court can then invalidate the law.

In this respect, the

Arizona County Court acted, and this Court today is acting, as a "super-legislature."'
4The Court today invalidates the Arizona law in accordance with
the identical "super-legislature" method (so designated by Justices
Brandeis and Holmes) used by the majority to invalidate a Nebraska
statute regulating the weights of loaves of bread. Burns Baking Co.
v. Bryan, 264 U. S. 504, 534. For here, as there, this Court has
overruled a state legislature's finding that an evil existed, and that the
state law would not impose an unconstitutional "burden" upon those
regulated. The dissent in the Burns case said:
"To decide, as a fact, that the prohibition of excess weights 'is not
necessary for the protection of the purchasers against imposition and
fraud by short weights'; that it 'is not calculated to effectuate that.
purpose'; and that it 'subjects bakers and sellers of bread' to heavy
burdens, is, in my opinion, an exercise of the powers of a super-legislature-not the performance of the constitutional function of judicial
review."
That decision rested on the Due Process Clause while today's decision rests on the Commerce Clause. But that difference does not
make inapplicable here the principles invoked by. the dissenters in
the Burns case.
The use of the "super-legislature" technique has been repeated to
strike down other statutes. See e. g., Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co. v.
Wisconsin, 238 U. S. 491, 499; Weaver v. Palmer Bros. Co., 270 U. S.
402, dissent, at 415. See also dissents in Schlesinger v. Wisconsin, 270

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA.
761

BLACK,

789

J., dissenting.

Even if this method of invalidating legislative acts is a
correct one, I still think that the "findings" of the state
court do not authorize today's decision. That court did
not find that there is no unusual danger from slack movements in long trains. It did decide on disputed evidence
that the long train "slack movement" dangers were more
than offset by prospective dangers as a result of running
a larger number of short trains, since many people might
be hurt at grade crossings. There was undoubtedly some
evidence before the state court from which it could have
reached such a conclusion. There was undoubtedly as
much evidence before it which would have justified a
different conclusion.
Under those circumstances, the determination of
whether it is in the interest of society for the length of
trains to be governmentally regulated is a matter of public policy. Someone must fix that policy-either the Congress, or the state, or the courts. A century and a half of
constitutional history and government admonishes this
Court to leave that choice to the elected legislative representatives of the people themselves, where it properly
belongs both on democratic principles and the requirements of efficient government.
I think that legislatures, to the exclusion of courts, have
the constitutional power to enact laws limiting train
lengths, for the purpose of reducing injuries brought about
by "slack movements." Their power is not less because
a requirement of short trains might increase grade crossing accidents. This latter fact raises an entirely different
U. S. 230, 241, 242; New State Ice Co. v. Liebmann, 285 U. S. 262,
284-285. For a case in which this Court declined to review the
"economics or the facts" behind a legislative enactment, see Central
Lumber Co. v. South Dakota, 226 U. S. 157, 161; cf. Standard Oil Co.
v. Marysville, 279 U. S. 582, 586. See also Powell v. Pennsylvania,
127 U. S. 678, 686; dissenting opinion, Polk Co. v. Glover, 305 U. S.
5,10-19.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

element of danger which is itself subject to legislative
regulation. For legislatures may, if necessary, require
railroads to take appropriate steps to reduce the likelihood
of injuries at grade crossings. Denver & R. G. R. Co. v.
Denver, 250 U. S. 241. And the fact that grade-crossing
improvements may be expensive is no sufficient reason to
say that an unconstitutional "burden" is put upon a railroad even though it be an interstate road. Erie R. Co. v.
Public Utility Commissioners, 254 V. S. 394, 408-411.
The Supreme Court of Arizona did not discuss the
County Court's so-called findings of fact. It properly
designated the Arizona statute'as a safety measure, and
finding that it bore a reasonable relation to its purpose
declined to review the judgment of the legislature as to
the necessity for the passage of the act. In so doing it
was well fortified by a long line of decisions of this Court.
Today's decision marks an abrupt departure from that
line of cases.
There have been many sharp divisions of this Court
concerning its authority, in the absence of congressional
enactment, to invalidate state laws as violating the Commerce Clause. See e. g., Adams Manufacturing Co. v.
Storen, 304 U. S.307; Gwin, White & Prince v. ten'neford,
305 U. S.434; McCarroll v. Dixie Greyhound Lines, 309
U. S. 176. That discussion need not be renewed here,
because even the broadest exponents of judicial power in
this field have not heretofore expressed doubt as to a
state's power, absent a paramount congressional declaration, to regulate interstate trains in the interest of safety.
For as early as 1913, this Court, speaking through Mr.
Justice Hughes, later Chief Justice, referred to "the settled principle that, in the absence of legislation by Congress, the states are not denied the exercise of their power
to secure safety, in the physical operation of railroad
trains
their territory, even though such trains are
used inwithin
interstate commerce. That has been the law

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA.
761

791-

BLACK, J., dissenting.

since the begihning of railroad transportation." Atlantic
Coast Line R. Co. v. Georgia, 234 U. S. 280, 291. Until
today, the oft-repeated principles of that case have never
been repudiated in whole or in part.
But, it is said today, the principle there announced does
not apply because if one state applies a regulation of its
own to interstate trains, "uniformity" in regulation or
rather non-regulation, is destroyed. Justice Hughes
speaking for the Court in the Atlantic Coast Line case
made short shrift of that same argument. He there referred to the contention that "if state requirements conflict, it will be necessary to carry additional apparatus and
to make various adjustments at state lines which would delay and inconvenience interstate traffic." In answer to
this argument he reiterated a former declaration of this
Court in New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v. New York, 165
U. S. 628, on this subject, and added that "If there is ,a
conflict in such local regulations, by which interstate commerce may be inconvenienced-if there appears to be need
of standardization of safety appliances and of providing
rules of operation which will govern the entire interstate
road irrespective of state boundaries-there is a simple
remedy; and it cannot be assumed that it will not be readily
applied if there be real occasion for it. That remedy does
not rest in a denial to the state, in the absence of conflicting federal action, of its power to protect life and
property within its borders, but it does lie in the exercise
of the paramount authority of Congress in its control of
interstate commerce to establish such regulations as in its
judgment may be deemed appropriate and sufficient.
Congress, when it pleases, may give the rule and make the
standard to be observed on the interstate highway."
p. 292.
That same statement has in substance been made in
many other decisions of this Court, a number of which
are cited in the Atlantic Coast Line case, and all of them

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

are today swept into the discard. In no one of all these
previous cases was it more appropriate than here to call
attention to the fact that Congress could when it pleased
establish a uniform rule as to the length of trains. Congress knew about the Arizona law. It is common knowledge that the Interstate Commerce Committees of the
House and the Senate keep in close and intimate touch
with the affairs of railroads and other national means of
transportation. Every year brings forth new legislation
which goes through those Committees, much of it relating
to safety. The attention of the members of Congress and
of the Senate have been focused on the particular problem of the length of railroad trains. We cannot assume
that they were ignorant of the commonly known fact that
a long train might be more dangerous in some territories
and on some particular types of railroad. The history of
congressional consideration of this problem leaves little
if any room to doubt that the choice of Congress to leave
the state free in this field was a deliberate choice, which
was taken with a full knowledge of the complexities of
the problems and the probable need for diverse regulations in different localities. I am therefore compelled to
reach the conclusion that today's decision is the result
of the belief of a majority of this Court that both the leg-'
islature of Arizona and the Congress made wrong policy
decisions in permitting a law to stand which limits the
length of railroad trains. I should at least give the Arizona statute the benefit of the same rule which this Court
said should be applied in connection with state legislation
under attack for violating the Fourteenth Amendment,
that is, that legislative bodies have "a wide range of legislative discretion, . .. and their conclusions respecting
the wisdom of their legislative acts are not reviewable by
the courts." Arizona Employers' Liability Cases, 250
U. S. 400, 419.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA.
761

BLACK,

793

J., dissenting.

When we finally get down to the gist of what the Court
today actually decides, it is this: Even though more railroad employees will be injured by "slack action" movements on long trains than on short trains, there must be
no regulation of this danger in the absence of "uniform
regulations." That means that no one can legislate
against this danger except the Congress; and even though
the Congress is perfectly content to leave the matter to
the different state legislatures, this Court, on the ground
of "lack of uniformity," will require it to make an express
avowal of that fact before it will permit a state to guard
against that admitted danger.
We are not left in doubt as to why, as against the potential peril of injuries to employees, the Court tips the scales
on the side of "uniformity." For the evil it finds in a
lack of uniformity is that it (1) delays interstate commerce, (2) increases its cost and (3) impairs its efficiency.
All three of these boil down to the same thing, and that
is that running shorter trains would increase the cost of
railroad operations. The "burden" on commerce reduces
itself to mere cost because there was no finding, and no
evidence to support a finding, that by the expenditure of
sufficient sums of money, the railroads could not enable
themselves to carry goods and passengers just as quickly
and efficiently with short trains as with long trains. Thus
the conclusion that a requirement for long trains will "burden interstate commerce" is a mere euphemism for the
statement that a requirement for long trains will increase
the cost of railroad operations.
In the report of the Senate Committee, supra, attention
was called to the fact that in 1935, 6,351 railroad employees
were injured while on duty, with a resulting loss of more
than 200,000 working days, and that injuries to trainmen
and enginemen increased more than 29%1 in 1936V Never5These figures appear to be considerably less than those later reported. See Tiller v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 318 U. S. 54, 59,
note 4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
BLACK, J., dissenting..

325 U. S.

theless, the Court's action in requiring that money costs
outweigh human values is sought to be buttressed by a
reference to the express policy of Congress to promote an
"economical national railroad system." I cannot believe
that if Congress had defined what it meant by "economical," it would have required money to be saved at the
expense of the personal safety of railway employees. Its
whole history for the past 25 years belies such an interpretation of its language. Judicial opinions rather than
legislative enactments have tended to emphasize costs.
See Tiller v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., supra, 58-60. A

different congressional attitude has been shown by the passage of numerous safety appliance provisions, a federal
employees' compensation act, abolition of the judicially
created doctrine of assumption of risk and contributory
negligence, and various other types of legislation. Unfortunately, the record shows, as pointed out in the Tiller
case, that the courts have by narrow and restricted interpretation too frequently reduced the full scope of
protection which Congress intended to provide.
This record in its entirety leaves me with no doubt whatever that many employees have been seriously injured
and killed in the past, and that many more are likely to
be so in the future, because of "slack movement" in trains.
Everyday knowledge as well as direct evidence presented
at the various hearings, substantiates the report of the
Senate Committee that the danger from slack movement
is greater in long trains than in short trains. It may be
that offsetting dangers are possible in the operation of
short trains. The balancing of these probabilities, however, is not in my judgment a matter for judicial determination, but one which calls for legislative consideration.
Representatives elected by the people to make their laws,
rather than judges appointed to interpret those laws, can
best determine the policies which govern the people.
That at least is the basic principle on which our demo-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA.
761

795

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

cratic society rests. I would affirm the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Arizona.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, dissenting.
I have expressed my doubts whether the courts should
intervene in situations like the present and strike down
state legislation on the grounds that it burdens interstate
commerce. McCarroll v. Dixie Greyhound Lines, 309
U. S. 176, 183-189. My view has been that the courts
should intervene only where the state legislation discriminated against interstate commerce or was out of harmony with laws which Congress had enacted. p. 184.
It seems to me particularly appropriate that that course
be followed here. For Congress has given the Interstate
Commerce Commission broad powers of regulation over
interstate carriers. The Commission is the national
agency which has been entrusted with the task of promoting a safe, adequate, efficient, and economical transportation service. It is the expert on this subject. It is in
a position to police the field. And if its powers prove
inadequate for the task, Congress, which has paramount
authority in this field, can implement them.
But the Court has not taken that view. As a result
the question presented is whether the total effect of Arizona's train-limit as a safety measure is so slight as not
to outweigh the national interest in keeping interstate
commerce free from interferences which seriously impede
or burden it. The voluminous evidence has been reviewed
in the opinion of the Court and in the dissenting opinion
of MR. JUsTICE BIAcK. If I sat as a member of the Interstate Commerce Commission or of a legislative committee
to decide whether Arizona's train-limit law should be superseded by a federal regulation, the question would not
be free from doubt for me. If we had before us the ruling
of the Interstate Commerce Commission (In the Matter
of Service Order No. 85, 256 I. C. C. 523, 534) that Ari-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

zona's train-limit law infringes "the national interest in
maintaining the free flow of commerce under the present
emergency war conditions," I would accept its expert appraisal of the facts, assuming it had the authority to act.
But that order is not before us. And the present case
deals with a period of time which antedates the war emergency. Moreover, we are dealing here with state legislation in the field of safety where the propriety of local
regulation has long been recognized. See Atlantic Coast
Line R. Co. v. Georgia, 234 U. S. 280, 291, and cases collected in Californiav. Thompson, 313 U. S. 109, 113-114.
Whether the question arises under the Commerce Clause
or the Fourteenth Amendment, I think the legislation is
entitled to a presumption of validity. If a State passed
a law prohibiting the hauling of more than one freight car
at a time, we would have a situation comparable in effect
to a state law requiring all railroads within its borders to
operate on narrow gauge tracks. The question is one
of degree and calls for a close appraisal of the facts., I am
not persuaded that the evidence adduced by the railroads
overcomes the presumption of validity to which this trainlimit law is entitled. For the reasons stated by MR. JusTICE BLCAc, Arizona's train-limit law should stand as an
allowable regulation enacted to protect the lives and limbs
of the men who operate the trains.

'See Bikl6, Judicial Determination of Questions of Fact Affecting
The Constitutional Validity of Legislative Action, 38 Harv. L. Rev. 6.

