OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

325 U. S.

We doubt if one can find in the long line of criticized
cases one in which the Court has made a more extreme
exertion of power or one so little supported or explained
by either the statute or the record in the case. Power
should answer to reason none the less because its fiat is
beyond appeal.
UNITED STATES ALKALI EXPORT ASSOCIATION, INC. ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
NO. 1016.
CERTIORARI TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE
UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW
YORK.*

Argued May 1, 2, 1945.-Decided May 21, 1945.
1. An order of a district court in a suit brought by the United States
under § 4 of the Sherman Act against export associations and
members thereof to restrain violations of the Act, denying a motion
of .the defendants to dismiss, made on the ground that, under §§ 1, 2
and 5 of the Webb-Pomerene Act, exclusive jurisdiction of the
matters charged in the complaint is vested in the first instance in
the Federal Trade Commission, held reviewable here by certiorari
under § 262 of the Judicial Code. P. 201.
(a) Where the proceeding is one in respect of which this Court
has exclusive appellate jurisdiction, an application for a common
law writ in aid of appellate jurisdiction must be to this Court.
P. 202.
(b) The hardship which would be imposed on the defendants
by a long postponed appellate review, coupled with the attendant
infringement of the asserted Congressional policy of conferring
primary jurisdiction on the Commission, together support the appeal to the discretion of this Court to exercise its power to review
the ruling of the district court in advance of final judgment. P. 204.
2. Exercise of the powers conferred on the Federal Trade Commission by § 5 of the Webb-Pomerene Act--to investigate activities
of any export association which are believed to be in violation of
the Sherman Act; if violations are found, to make recommendations
*Together with No. 1017, California Alkali Export Association
et al. v. United States, also on certiorari to the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York.

U. S. ALKALI ASSN. v. U. S.
196

Opinion of the Court.

to such association for readjustment of its business; and upon
failure of the association to comply, to refer its findings and
recommendations to the Attorney General-is not a prerequisite
to a suit by the United States against an export association to
restrain violations of the Sherman Act. P. 205.
(a) The Webb-Pomerene Act's grant of power to the Commission
would curtail the authority of the United States to conduct antitrust suits only if it were deemed an implied repeal pro tanto of § 4 of
the Sherman Act. Repeals by implication are not favored. P. 209.
(b) The principle that equity will not lend its aid to a plaintiff
who has not first exhausted his administrative remedies is inapplicable, since the function of the Commission under § 5 of the WebbPomerene Act is to investigate, recommend and report. The
Commission, under that Act, can give no remedy; it can make no:
controlling finding of law or fact; and its recommendation need not
be followed by any court or administrative or executive officer.
P. 210.
58 F. Supp. 785, affirmed.

CRFmRRi , 324 U. S. 834, to review an order of a district
court denying a motion of the defendants to dismiss a
suit brought by the United States to restrain violations
.of the Sherman Act.
Mr. Wm. Dwight Whitney, with whom Messrs. Leland
Hazard, David A. Reed, Calvin A. Campbell, Robert T.
McCracken, Ralph S. Harris,H. G. Hitchcock, H. Webster

Stull, J. E. F. Wood, F. C. Lowthorp, Bruce Bromley,
George S. Collins, Fred N. Oliver, Edward D. Lyman and

WillardP. Scott were on the brief, for petitioners.
Assistant Attorney General Berge, with whom Assistant Solicitor General Cox, Messrs. Charles H. Weston and

Herbert A. Berman were on the brief, for the United
States.

MR. CHrEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit in the District Court. for Southern New
York, brought by the United States under § 4 of the Sher-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

man Antitrust Act, 15 U. S. C. §4, to restrain violations of
the Act. The defendants, who are petitioners here, are
two incorporated export associations, thirteen domestic
members of one or the other, and a British corporation and
its American subsidiary, all of which are producers of
alkalies. The bill of complaint alleges that petitioners are
engaged in a conspiracy to eliminate exports of alkalies to
the United States by the foreign members of the conspiracy; to restrict or eliminate exports of alkalies by
domestic producers from the United States to many world
markets; to prevent independent domestic producers from
competing with petitioners, in the export of alkalies; to
restrict their production of alkalies in the United States;
and to fix prices of caustic soda in the United States, all in
violation of § 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U. S. C. § 1.
Thedistrict court denied, 58 F. Supp. 785, petitioners'
motion to dismiss the complaint, made on the ground that
exclusive jurisdiction of the matters'charged in the complaint is vested in the first instance in the Federal Trade
Commission, under §§ 1, 2, and 5 of the Webb-Pomerene Act of April 10, 1918, c. 50, 40 Stat. 516, 15 U. S. C.
§§ 61, 62, 65. Petitioners then filed here petitions for
certiorari under § 262 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C.
§ 377, seeking review of the order of the district court
denying the motion to dismiss.
The questions for decision are (1) whether the order
of the district court, denying petitioners' motion.to dismiss
the complaint, mhay appropriately be reviewed here by
writ of certiorari issued under § 262 of the Judicial Code
and, if so, (2) whether §§ 1, 2, and 5"of the Webb-Pomerene Act confer primary jurisdiction on the Federal Trade
Commission, exclusive of that of the district court, to
pass upon alleged violations of theSherman Act by export
associations.
Section 4 of the Sherman Act invests the several district
courts with jurisdiction to restrain violations of the Act;

U. S. ALKALI ASSN. v. U. S.
196

199 "

Opinion of the Court.

and it imposes on district attorneys of the United States,
under the direction of the Attorney General, the duty to
institute suits in equity in their respective districts, to
restrain such violations. But § 2 of the Webb-Pomerene
Act exempts from the prohibitions of the Sherman Act,
associations "entered into for the sole purpose of engaging
in export trade and actually engaged solely in such export
trade" and also any "agreement made or act done in the
course of export trade by such association, provided such
association, agreement, or act is not in restraint of trade
within the United States, and is not in restraint of the
export trade of any domestic competitors of such association." To this is added a second proviso "that such association does not, either in the United States or elsewhere,
enter into any agreement, understanding, or conspiracy,
or do any act which artificially or intentionally enhances
or depresses prices within the United States of commodities of the class exported by such association, or which
substantially lessens competition within the United States
or otherwise restrains trade therein."
The first paragraph of § 5 of the Webb-Pomerene Act
requires each association engaged solely in export trade
to file with the Federal Trade Commission a statement
giving information concerning its officers and stockholders
or members, and its place of business, and a copy of its
articles of incorporation or its contract of association; the
association is required to refile annually such statements
with suitable corrections, and to furnish such further
specified information as the Commission may from time
to time request. Section 5 further provides in its second
paragraph that whenever the Commission shall have
reason to believe that an export association is violating
the Sherman Act in the ways excepted by the provisos of
§ 2 from its exemptions, the Commission shall conduct
an investigation into the alleged violations. If "it shall
conclude that the law has been violated, it may make to

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

such association recommendations for the readjustment
of its business, in order that it may thereafter maintain its
organization and management and conduct its business
in accordance with law." If the association fails to comply with the recommendations of the Commission, it
"shall refer its findings and recommendations to the Attorney General of the United States for such action
thereon as he may deem proper." 1
Petitioners do not question the district court's rulings,
in denying their motion, that the complaint alleges violations of the Sherman Act, and that under its allegations
petitioners are not within any immunity from the Sherman Act secured by § 2 of the Webb-Pomerene Act. Their
sole contention on the merits is that § 5 of the latter Act,
by authorizing the proceedings before the Federal Trade
Commission, deprives the district courts of jurisdiction in
Sherman Act cases until the Commission has made its
1

The second paragraph of § 5 of the Webb-Pomerene Act, with
which we are especially concerned, reads as follows:
"Whenever the Federal Trade Commission shall have reason to
believe that an association or any agreement made or act done by
such association is in restraint of trade within the United States or
in restraint of the export trade of any domestic competitor of such
association, or that an association either in the United States or elsewhere has eritered into any agreement, understanding, or conspiracy,
or done any act which artificially or intentionally enhances or depresses
prices within the United States of commodities of the class exported
by such association, or which substantially lessens competition within
the United States or otherwise restrains trade therein, it shall summon
such association, its officers, and agents to appear before it, and thereafter conduct an investigation into the alleged Violations of law. Upon
investigation, if it shall conclude that the law has been violated, it
may make to such association recommendations for the readjustment
of its business, in order that it may thereafter T .ntain its organization and management and conduct its busnei tiaccordance with
law. If such association fails to comply *i?
Ulerecommendtio
of the Federal Trade Commission, said eqomzssion shall refer :its
findings and recommendations to the Attorney General of the United
States for such action thereon as he may deem proper."

U. S. ALKALI ASSN. v. U. S.
196

Opinion of the Court.

investigation and recommendations, the associations have
failed to comply with them, and the Commission has referred its findings and recommendations to the Attorney
General.

I

Petitioners argue that this Court may appropriately
review the order of the district court by writ of certiorari,
issued under § 262 of the Judicial Code. They point out
that § 2 of the Expediting Act of February 11, 1903, as
amended, 15 U. S. C. § 29, governing appeals in Sherman
Act. cases, makes no provision for appeals from interlocutory orders or judgments, and provides that "an appeal from the final decree of the district court will lie only
to the Supreme Court." See United States v. California
Canneries,279 U. S.553. But it is urged that the district
court is deprived of its jurisdiction by § 5 of the WebbPomerene Act, until the Trade Commission has made
the investigation and followed the further procedure outlined by § 5; that the assertion by the district court of its
jurisdiction, without awaiting an investigation by the
Commission, will entail protracted litigation and impose
on the parties great expense before the error can be corrected on appeal from the final judgment to this Court.
All this will be avoided, it is said, by awaiting action
by the Commission. Hence petitioners insist that the
case is appropriate for the exercise by this Court of its
extraordinary power to review the order of the district
.court by writ of certiorari.
Section 262 -of the Judicial Code provides that the
Supreme Court, circuit courts of appeals and the district
courts, "shall have power to issue all writs not specifically
provided for by statute, which may be necessary for the
exercise of' their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to
the usages and principles of law." Under § 262, this
Court has power, in aid of its appellate jurisdiction, to
review judgments and orders of the district courts by

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

resort to the common law writs of certiorari, mandamus
and prohibition. Whitney v. Dick, 202 U. S. 132; McClellan v. Carland, 217 U. S. 268, and cases cited; In re
620 Church Street Corp., 299 U. S. 24, 26, and cases cited;
Ex parte Peru, 318 U. S.578, and cases cited; House v.
Maya, 324 U. S. 42, and cases cited; compare Roche v.
Evaporated Milk Assn., 319 U. S. 21. These writs are
granted or withheld in the sound discretion of the Court.
See Roche v. EvaporatedMilk Assn., supra, 25, and cases
cited. In the usual case this Court will decline to issue
a writ prior to review in the Circuit Court of Appeals,
whether by ordinary appeal, In re Tampa Suburban R.
Co., 168 U. S. 583, 588, or by an extraordinary remedy, see
Ex parte Peru, supra, 584. But where, as here, sole appellate jurisdiction lies in this Court, application for a
common law writ in aid of appellate jurisdiction must be
to this Court.
The traditional use of such writs both at common law
and in the federal courts has been, in appropriate cases,
to confine inferior courts to the exercise of their prescribed
jurisdiction or to compel them to exercise their authority
when it is their duty to do so. In re Chetwood, 165 U. S.
'443, 462 (citing Tidd's Prac. *398, and Bac. Ab., Certiorari); Whitney v. Dick, supra, 139-140; Ex parte Peru,
supra, 583, and cases cited.' It is evident that hardship
is imposed on parties who are compelled to await the correction of an alleged error at an interlocutory stage by an
appeal from a final judgment. But such hardship does
not necessarily justify resort to certiorari or other of the
extraordinary writs as a means of review. In such cases
2See

also Regina v. Yarrington, 1 Salk. 406, 91 Eng. Rep. 353 (Q.B.

1710); King v. Justices of the West Riding of Yorkshire, 5 T. R. 629,
101 Eng. Rep. 352 (K. B. 1794); King v. Justices of Somersetshire,
5 Barn. & Cress. 816, 108 Eng. Rep. 303 (K. B. 1826) ; King v. Judge
Clements [1932] 2 K. B. 535; King v. Middlesex Justices [1933] 1

K. B. 72.

U. S. ALKALI ASSN. v. U. S.
196

Opinion of the Court.

appellate courts are reluctant to interfere with decisions
of lower courts, even on jurisdictional questions, which
they are competent to decide and which are reviewable -in
the regular course of appeal. In re Tampa Suburban
R. Co., supra;Ex parte Harding,219 U. S. 363,369; Roche
v. Evaporated Milk Assn., supra, 30-31, and cases cited;
cf. Stoll v. Gottlieb, 305 U. S. 165; Treinies v. Sunshine
Mining Co., 308 U. S. 66. The writs may not be used as
a substitute for an authorized appeal; and where, as here,
the statutory scheme permits appellate review of interlocutory orders only on appeal from the final judgment,
review by certiorari or other extraordinary writ is not
permissible in the face of the plain indication of the legislative purpose to avoid piecemeal reviews. Roche v.
EvaporatedMilk Assn., supra,30, and cases cited; and see
Cobbledick v. United States, 309 U. S. 323.
But the present case is not the ordinary one of hardship
resulting from overruling a plea in bar or denying a preliminary motion which, if well founded, would end the
litigation on the merits-decisions which Congress, in the
absence of other _provisions for appeal, must have contemplated would, in the ordinary course, be reviewed on
appeal from the final judgment. The questions now presented involve the propriety of the exercise, by the district
court, of its equity jurisdiction, and an asserted conflict
between its jurisdiction and that of an agency of Congress
said to be charged with the duty of enforcing the antitrust
laws in the circumstances of the present case. If petitioners' motion was well founded, its denial operated to
thwart the asserted purpose of Congress to afford to export
associations, which overstep, the bounds of the granted immunity, opportunity, with the expert aid of the Trade
Commission, to retrace their steps, without being subjected to the penalties of the law. Exercise of its jurisdiction by the district court would preclude the Commission
from carrying out its asserted functions of investigation,

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

recommendation and report before any suit by the United
•States. This would be more than the mere denial of the
right of a suitor such as Congress must have contemplated
would be corrected by recourse to the prescribed appeal
procedure. It would be a frustration of the functions
which Congress has directed the Commission to perform
and of the policy which Congress presumably sought to
effectuate by their performance.
The hardship imposed on petitioners by a long postponed appellate review, coupled with the attendant infringement of the asserted Congressional policy of conferring primary jurisdiction on the Commission, together
support the appeal to the discretion of this Court to exercise its power to review the ruling of the district court in
advance of final judgment. The case is analogous to those
in which this Court has, by writs issued under § 262, reviewed the action of district courts, alleged to be in excess
of their authority, by which they have foreclosed the
adjudication of rights or the protection of interests committed to the jurisdiction of a state officer or tribunal, see
In re Chetwood, supra; McClellan v. Carland,supra; Ex
parte Metropolitan Water Co., 220 U. S. 539; Ex parte
Skinner & Eddy Corp., 265 U. S. 86; Maryland v. Soper
(No. 1), 270 U. S. 9; Ex parteNorthern Pacific R. Co., 280
U. S. 142; Colorado v. Symes, 286 U. S. 510; or by which
they have deprived a party of a trial by jury. Ex parte
Simons, 247 U. S. 231; Ex parte Peterson, 253 U. S.
300, 305.
For these reasons we think the case is an appropriate
one for review of the district court's order by certiorari,
and we pass to the consideration of the merits.
II
Petitioners do not deny that the allegations of the complaint are sufficient to charge violations of the Sherman
Act not within the exemptions created by § 2 of the Webb-

U. S. ALKALI ASSN. v. U. S.
196

Opinion of the Court.

Pomerene Act. The contention is that since the alleged
violations are being committed by and on behalf of export
associations which have conformed to § 5 of the latter
Act, the authority of the United States to maintain the
suit is suspended until the Federal Trade Commission
has proceeded against the associations by way of investigation and, if found appropriate, by way of recommendations to them and reference of its findings to the Attorney
General, as specified in § 5.
It is conceded that § 5 contains no explicit restriction on
the authority of the United States to institute antitrust
suits in the normal way, nor any explicit requirement that
resort be had to the Commission prior to the institution
of such an antitrust suit. Petitioners argue that this is to
be implied from the structure of the Act, which first, by
§ 2, exempts from the Sherman Act certain activities of
export associations, with specified exceptions; and then
by the second paragraph of § 5, gives the Commission
authority, in language substantially identical with that of
the exceptions in § 2, to investigate such activities as continue to be violations of the Sherman Act. It is argued
that Congress, by authorizing the Commission to investigate violations and in appropriate cases to report to the
Attorney General any violations found, has expressed the
purpose that the action by the Commission and the Attorney General should be consecutive and not concurrent.
It would follow that however strong the evidence, and
however clear the violation of the Sherman Act, the Attorney General must await the action of the Commission,
which may or may not undertake to proceed with the case,
and that in any event the Attorney General and the courts
must abide by the Commission's determination that there
are no violations to report. During the twenty-eight
years between the enactment of the Sherman Act and the
passage of the Webb-Pomerene Act, the plenary authority and settled practice -of the Department of Justice to

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

institute antitrust suits, without prior proceedings by
other agencies, became firmly established. A pro tanto
repeal oi that authority, by conferring upon the Commission primary jurisdiction to determine when, if at all,
an antitrust suit may appropriately be brought, would
require a clear expression of that purpose by Congress.
United States v. Borden Co., 308 U. S. 188, 198-199, 203206; see also Georgia v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 324 U. S.
439, 456-457. The Webb-Pomerene Act, as we have said,
contains no explicit indication to that end. Nor may
such an implication be readily drawn from the language
of the statutes, or their legislative history.
In determining whether the Webb-Pomerene Act curtailed the then existing authority of the United States to
bring antitrust suits, it is important to consider what that
Act did not do, as well as what it did. True, it exempted
from the antitrust laws some, but not all, acts which would
otherwise have been violations. But while it empowered
the Commission to investigate, recommend and report,
it gave the Commission no authority to make any order
or impose any prohibition or restraint, or make any binding adjudication with respect to these violations.
This is in marked contrast to the Commission's power
to issue cease and desist orders with respect to violations
of § 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, ag amended,
15 U. S. C. § 45,3 and with respect to violations of the
Clayton Act, §§ 1, 3, 7, 8, 11, as amended, 15 U. S. C. §§ 13,
1J, 18, 19, 21.4 On the other hand, it is consonant with
8Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, as amended, 15
U. S. C. § 45, declares that "unfair, methods of competition in commerce, and unfair or deceptive acts or practices in commerce" are
unlawful.
4Section 1 of the Clayton Act, 15 U. S. C. § 13, prohibits certain
discriminations in price and services; § 3, 15 U. S. C. § 14, certain sales
or leases where the purchaser is required to refrain from dealing
with competitors of the seller; § 7, 15 U. S. C. § 18, certain acquisitions by corporations of stocks in other corporations; and § 8, 15

U. S. ALKALI ASSN. v. U. S.
196

Opinion of the Court.

and closely related to another important function of the
Commission, which from the beginning has had extensive
powers to investigate and report on practices which concern or affect the enforcement of laws relating to trade
and commerce, including the antitrust laws. 5 Such investigations by the Commission have never been deemed prerequisite to antitrust suits by the United States; and there
is nothing to suggest that Congress, in authorizing the
Commission to investigate export associations, intended
to place such investigations on any different footing than
others, which the Commission had already been authorized
to conduct.
It is suggested that Congress could not have contemplated "concurrent jurisdiction" of the Commission and
the courts, because of the inconvenience to suitors in not
being afforded an opportunity to mend their ways by
U. S. C. § 19, c.rtain interlocking directorates. Section 11, 15 U. S. C.
§ 21, confers on the Commission power to issue cease and desist orders
with respect to violations of §§ 1, 3, 7 and 8.
5 Section 6 (e) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U. S. C.
§ 46 (e), authorizes the Commission, in language comparable to that
of § 5 of the Webb-Pomerene Act, "upon the application of the Attorney General to investigate and make recommendations for the readjustment of the business of any corporation alleged to be violating
the antitrust Acts in order that the corporation may thereafter maintain its organization, management, and conduct of business in accordance with law." Section 6 further authorizes the Commission to investigate the organization, business, practices and management of any
corporation engaged in interstate commerce; to require such corporations to file annual and special reports and answers to questions
concerning such matters; to investigate the manner in which corporations, defendants in Sherman Act suits brought by the Government,
have complied with the decrees, and to transmit to the Attorney
General its "findings and recommendations"; to investigate and
report, upon the direction of the President or Congress, the facts
relating to any "violations of the antitrust Acts by any corporation";
to investigate trade conditions in foreign countries where trade practices may affect our foreign trade, and to report to Congress its
recommendations.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

following the Commission's recommendations. And petitioners urge that Congress could not have intended concurrent jurisdiction, since it explicitly provided for it when
it so desired. Thus §§ 1, 3, 7, and 8 of the Clayton Act,
as amended, i5 U. S. C. §§ 13, 14, 18, 19, may be enforced
either by cease and desist orders of the Commission, § 11,
15 U. S. C. § 21, or by suits in equity instituted by the
several district attorneys in their respective districts,
under the direction of the Attorney General, § 15, 15
U. S. C. § 25.
This argument overlooks the fact that the Commission's
authority is to investigate and recommend, not to restrain
violations of the antitrust laws (save as they may incidentally be violations of other statutes, which the Commission may enforce). The Commission, by its investigations and recommendations, may render a useful service
in bringing violations to the attention of the Department
of Justice or by showing that resort to the courts is unnecessary, either because there has been no violation or
because the associations have satisfactorily corrected their
trade practices. But the Commission, under the WebbPomerene Act, does not enforce the antitrust laws; its
powers are exhausted when it has referred its findings to
the Attorney General. Indeed, the provisions for such
reference are 'necessary not because the Commission has a
primary jurisdiction, but only because it cannot itself
enforce the antitrust laws. Further, there is no want of
specific authority for the United States to enforce the antitrust laws; the violations here alleged are not violations
of the Webb-Pomerene Act, but of the Sherman Act, and
it is the latter which provides for suits to be brought by
the United States.
But even if the case were one of concurrent jurisdiction,
we cannot assume that there would be any unseemly
conflict between the Commission and the Department of
Justice. Congress has found no such objection to the

U. S. ALKALI ASSN. v. U. S.
196

Opinion of the Court.

concurrent jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of the
Clayton Act to which we have referred. The two agencies
will seldom act simultaneously. There would be no occasion for an investigation by the Commission if the Attorney General had already procured the requisite evidence of
violations and was ready to proceed with his suit, as is
said to be the case here. And there is no basis for interpreting the statute as though it had been contrived to
prevent hostile action rather than to encourage efficient
cooperation between the Commission and the Department
of Justice.
As we have said, the Webb-Pomerene Act's grant of
power to the Commission would curtail the authority of
the United States to conduct antitrust suits only if it were
deemed to be an implied repeal pro tanto of § 4 of the
Sherman Act. As we pointed out in United States v.
Borden Co., supra, 198-199, 203-206, such repeals by implication are not favored. There we held that provisions
of the Capper-Volstead Act, 7 U. S. -C.§§ 291, 292, comparable to those of §§ 2 and 5 of the Webb-Pomerene Act,
did not, operate to restrict the authority of the United
States to maintain suits for violation of the antitrust
laws.
Sections 1 and 2 of the Capper-Volstead Act, c. 57, 42
Stat. 388, 7 U. S. C. §§ 291, 292, authorized collective
marketing by members of agricultural cooperatives but
empowered the Secretary of Agriculture to issue cease and
desist orders, upon investigation and findings that any
such cooperative associations monopolized or restrained
interstate trade and commerce to such an extent that the
•prices of any agricultural products were thereby unduly
enhanced. And the Act gave jurisdiction to the district
courts to enforce the Secretary's orders.
This Court rejected the contention that the CapperVolstead Act gave to the Secretary "exclusive jurisdiction"
to determine in the first instance whether the acts of the

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

cooperatives were violations of the Sherman Act because
they went beyond the immunity granted by the CapperVolstead Act. And we held for the same reasons, which
are controlling here, that neither the language nor the
structure of the Capper-Volstead Act indicated a Congressional purpose to make the procedure by the Secretary, which it established, either a substitute for or a
prerequisite to a suit by the United States under the Sherman Act. A fortiori no such purpose is to be inferred from
the Webb-Pomerene Act, which has withheld from the
Commission any authority to enforce the Sherman Act.
Petitioners appeal to the familiar principle-that equity
will not lend its aid to a plaintiff who has not first exhaqsted his administrative remedies. Natural Gas Co. v.
Slaitery, 302 U. S. 300, 310-311; Myers v. Bethlehem
Corp., 303 U. S. 41, 51, and n. 9, and cases cited. And
especially they urge that the Government may not proceed with the prosecution of a Sherman Act case until the
relevant issues have been submitted to and passed upon
by an administrative tribunal established by the Government to determine those issues. See United States v.
Pacific & Arctic Co., 228 U. S. 87, 106-108. To this the
answer is, as already indicated, that the only function of
the Federal Trade Commission under § 5 of the WebbPomerene Act is to investigate, recommend and report.
It can give nu remedy. It can make no controlling finding
of law or fact. Its recommendation need not be followed
by any court or administrative or executive officer.
Thus the wordt of the Webb-Pomerene Act and its setting lend no support to petitioners' contention. And there
is nothing in its legislative history to show a Congressional
purpose to restrict the authority of the United States to
maintain suits for every kind of violation of the antitrust
laws. The precise problem presented by the present case
was not referred to in the committee reports or the debates,
except in a remark by Senator Pomerene, indicating that

U. S. ALKALI ASSN. v. U. S.
196

Opinion of the Court.

the Act does not preclude suits by the United States before
the Commission has made its investigation.' But the
absence of more extended discussion of the matter is in
itself persuasive evidence that there was no purpose to
repeal any portion of § 4 of the Sherman Act. And Congress's clear purpose to insure continued and vigorous
application of the antitrust laws to domestic restraints of
trade, notwithstanding the Webb-Pomerene Act, is shown
by the Committee Reports' as well as by statements of
the sponsors of the legislation on the floors of Congress,8
and is a strong indication that there was no thought of
depriving the Attorney General of any of his powers to
prosecute antitrust suits.
8

In response to a question by Senator Weeks, that "assuming .. .
that the conclusion of the commission might be altogether wise, what
assurance has the commission that the Department of Justice may
not take a different view and proceed against these combinations
under the provisions of the Sherman Antitrust Act?", Senator Pomerezie answered: "It might do that." 55 Cong. Rec. 2788.
7 H. Rep. No. 1118, 64th Cong., 1st Sess.; p. 3; S.Rep. No. 1056,
64th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 3-4. See also H. Rep. No. 50, 65th Cong.,
1st Sess., pp. 1, 3; S.Rep. No. 109, 65th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 3-4; Federal Trade Commission, Report on Cooperation in American Export
Trade, (1916) Vol. 1, p. 376, et seq.
, Senator Pomerene said, 56 Cong. Rec. 173: "It [the bill] does not
repeal, it does not affect the Sherman law so far as it applies to domestic commerce. It strengthens the Sherman law and the Federal
Trade Commission law, in so far as unfair p.'actices are concerned,
beyond territorial lines." And he also said: "this bill does not repeal
the Sherman law," and that associations not remaining within the
immunity granted by § 2 "violate the law of the land." (p. 172.)
He said further that such an association "would be subject to the
jurisdiction of the authorities of this country, including both the
Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice." (p. 170.)
Congressman Webb, in discussing the amendment to § 5, said that the
language of the provisions of § 2 "is a perfect preservation of the
Sherman law in all of its virility within the confines of this country,"
56 Cong. Rec. 4724, and that associations straying beyond the confines
of their immunity "are liable both under the Federal Trade Commission law and the Sherman antitrust law." 55 Cong. Rec. 3579.

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

325 U. S.

We conclude that the United States was authorized to
bring this suit, and that the Commission's powers conferred by § 5 of the Webb-Pomerene Act do not preclude
the suit before the Commission has acted. The order of
the district court is therefore
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concurs in this opinion in respect
of this Court's exercise of jurisdiction under § 262 of the
Judicial Code. He dissents from the decision that the
District Court had power to hear the cause in the absence
of an investigation and recommendation by the Federal
Trade Commission.
DE BEERS CONSOLIDATED MINES, LTD. ET AL. V.
UNITED STATES.
NO. 1189. CERTIORARI TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE
UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW
YORK.*

Argued May 2, 1945.-Decided May 21, 1945.
In a civil proceeding brought by the United States against foreign
corporations and individuals, seeking equitable relief upon a charge
that the defendants were engaged in a conspiracy to restrain and
monoixlize commerce of the United States with foreign nations
in gem and industrial diamonds, in violation of §§ 1 and 2 of the
Sherman Act and § 73 of the Wilson Tariff Act, the district court
granted a preliminary injunction restraining the corporate defendants from withdrawing, selling, transferring, or disposing -of
any property belonging to them in the United States, until the
cause finally shall have been determined and the defendants shall
have complied with all orders of the court. Held:
*Together with No. 1190, Societe Internationale Forestiere et
Miniere du Congo et al. v. United States, also on certiorari to the
District Court of the. United States for the Southern District of
New York.

