U. S. v. CAPITAL TRANSIT CO.

357

Counsel for Parties.
UNITED STATES ET AL. V. CAPITAL TRANSIT CO.
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 663. Argued April 30, 1945.-Decided May 28, 1945.
1. The Interstate Commerce Commission's finding, supported by
evidence, that application of the Motor Carrier Act to the transportation of passengers between the District of Columbia and Government installations in nearby Virginia was necessary to carry
out .the national transportation policy, wherefore the transportation
was within an exception tc the commercial-zone exemption prescribed
by § 203 (b) (8), justified the exercise of jurisdiction over such
transportation, including the rates thereof, by the 'Commission.
P. 360.
2. The Interstate Commerce Commission's findings, supported by
evidence, justify its order, under the Mvotor Carrier Act, prescribing
fares for interstate transportation by a company which operates
streetcars and bores as an integrated unit in such interstate service,
and prescribing joint fares for interstate transportation furnished by
such company and participating bus lines. P. 362.
3. Though some passengers paid a combination of two rates, one for
-travel wholly within the District, the other for travel between the
District and Virginia, and the journey from their residences to
Virginia and return was made in two segments, the total interstate
trip was nevertheless on a "through route." P. 363.
56 F. Supp. 670, reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of a district court of three judges
which set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission.

Mr. Paul A. Freund,with-whom Solicitor General Fahy
was on the brief, for the United States, and Mr. Daniel
W. Knowlton for the Interstate Commerce Commission,
appellants.
Mr. Robert E. Quirk, with whom Messrs. G. Thomas
Dunlop, E. Barrett Prettyman, F. G. Awalt, Raymond

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Sparks, J. Ninian Beall, Hugh H. Obear, FranklinK. Lane
and Wilmer A. Hill were on the brief, for the Capital
Transit Co. et al.; and Mr. Henry E. Ketner for the State
Corporation Commission of Virginia, appellees.
Messrs. Richmond B. Keech and Lloyd B. Harrisonfiled
a brief on behalf of the Public Utilities Commission of the
District of Columbia, and Mr. FrederickG. Hamley on behalf of the National Association of Railroad and Utilities
Commissioners, as amici curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE BAc& delivered the opinion of the Court.
A federal district court of three judges, one judge dissenting, set aside and permanently enjoined enforcement
of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, 258
I. C. C. 559, on the ground thatthe findings were inadequate and that the Commission acted beyond its jurisdiction. 56 F. Supp. 670.1 The case is here on direct appeal.
28 U. S. C. § 345.
At the request of the Secretaries of War and the Navy,
the Interstate Commerce Commission instituted an investigation iAto the reasonableness of the fares of four
carriers, transporting passengers by bus between points
in the District of Columbia and nearby points in the State
of Virginia, where are located certain military and naval
offices and installments employing more than 40,000 government workers. More than half these workers live
in the District so thatrthe number of individual passenger
trips to and from government work on the four motor lines
is in excess of 31,000 per day. The fares of the different
lines were not identical for performance of substantially
the same interstate transportation, and dissatisfaction of
The district court had previously set aside a Commission order
in the same case because of inadequate findings. 55 F. Supp. 51, 256
I. C. C. 769. Thereafter the Commission heard additional evidence,
made additional findings and entered the order here under review.

U. S. v. CAPITAL TRANSIT CO.
357

Opinion of the Court.

Army and Navy employees and officials had arisen on the
ground that the charges of all the companies were excessive. The Commission, after a hearing, found some existing fares to be reasonable and others unreasonable. Its
order required some of the rates to be reduced but permitted others to be increased.
A complicating factor arose from the distinctive type
of business carried on by Capital Transit, one of the
four companies transporting passengers to and from the
Virginia government agencies. In addition to its DistrictVirginia bus service, it operated an urban and suburban
transportation system, carrying passengers both by bus
and streetcar. Since District terminals of all the bus
companies were located in or adjacent to the central business sections, most government employees, in going to
and returning from their work, were compelled to begin
or complete their trips by utilizing buses or streetcars of
Capital Transit. It accorded to its own bus and streetcar
passengers, but denied to passengers on other Virginia
buses, a privilege of transfers to and from some of its Virginia buses which lowered the total fares between District
residences and their Virginia places of work. The Commission treated Transit Company's local bus and streetcar business as an integrated unit, and its findings, supported by evidence, show that its intra-company transfer
practices were the equivalent of establishment by Transit
of through interstate-routes with joint rates to and from
District residences to the Virginia points. Accordingly
it ordered that analogous joint arrangements as to fares,
including transfer privileges, be established between
Transit and the other bus lines carrying passengers to and
from Virginia government agencies. This, and other ele-ments of the Commission order not passed on by the district court, were separately attacked here. In order that
final disposition of the case may not be further delayed,
we shall consider all questions argued before us.

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

First. It is argued that the Commission is without jurisdiction to regulate any of the District-Virginia transportatior here involved. The argument emphasizes that
the movement begins and ends in a single "community,"
all within an area which the Commission has previously
recognized as the "commercial zone" of Washington. 3
M. C. C:243. We are referred here to the holding of this
Court in 1912 that a street-railway, carrying passengers
between Omaha, Nebraska and Council Bluffs, Iowa, was
"local," serving the use of a "single community," and was
not the kind of "railroad" which the Interstate Commerce
Act empowered the Commission to regulate. Omaha
Street R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 230 U. S.
324. Cf. United States v. Village of Hubbard, 266 U. S.
474, 479-480. The same principle, we are told, should
exclude similar local bus operations. But this Court's
decision in the Omaha case did not hold that Congress
could not authorize the Commission to regulate movements that took place across state lines in a single local
community. The power of Congress over such movements cannot be doubted. The Omaha case only decided
that Congress had not granted such power to the Commission under the law as it then existed.
We must now test the Commission's power in this case
by the provisions of a statute enacted subsequent to the
Omaha case, supra, the Motor Carrier Act, 49 Stat. 543,
under wbich the order here was entered. 'Section 203 (b)
of that Act provides the controlling rule. It specifically
defines the circumstances under which the Commission can
regulate interstate activities which happen to take place
in a single "commercial zone."
That Section, to a limited extent, excludes from. the
Commission's jurisdiction "The transportation of passengers or property in interstate or foreign commerce wholly
within a municipality or between contiguous municipalities or within a zone adjacent to and commercially a part of

U. S. v. CAPITAL TRANSIT CO.
357

Opinion of the Court.

any such' municipality or municipalities..." Other
parts of the same Section authorize the Commission to
apply the Act to these zone activities, however, if it finds
that (1) "such application is necessary" to carry out the
national transportation policy declared in the Act, or (2)
if the carrier is not "engaged in . . . intrastate transportation of passengers over the entire length of such interstate route." The Commission held that the four bus
companies came within both these exceptions and therefore were not excluded from its jurisdiction. We need not
consider whether they came within the second exception,
because of our conclusion that the Commission's findings
justified its ordet under the first exception. Those findings were that it was necessary for the Commission to
exercise its jurisdiction in order to carry out the Act's declared policy, "to encourage the establishment and maintenance of reasonable charges for transportation services,
without unjust discriminations, . . . to the end of developing, coordinating, and preserving a national transportation system . . . adequate to meet the needs of the
commerce of the United States, of the postal service, and
of the national defense." 54 Stat. 899.
On its second hearing the Commission heard evidence
from employees of the Army and Navy as to dissatisfaction with the fares. The Secretaries of both War and
Navy made complaints concerning the situation produced
by the rate structure. A number of witnesses testified as
to the dissatisfaction of employees with the prevailing
rates. If evidence was necessary to prove that unreasonably high rates were calculated to disturb the morale of
workers forced to pay them,, and thus to impair the
national defense program, there can be no doubt but that
the findings of the Commission were well supported It is
to be remembered that these were interstate rates for
interstate travel which applied almost exclusively to
workers engaged in national defense. Neither the District

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

nor Virginia had power adequately to regulate the rates;
nor had they attempted to do so. Their regulation was
rightfully a matter of concern to Army and Navy Departments charged with the serious responsibility of conducting a war. The employees worked in the very center of
activities essential in that cause. Congress unequivocally
reserved to the Con-mission power to regulate reasonableness ot interstate rates in the light of the needs of national
defense. The findings of the Commission on this issue
were clear and complete, cf. Yonkers v. United States, 320
U. S. 685, and justified the Commission in exercising its

jurisdiction.
Second. It is argued that the Commission exceeded its
authority in prescribing joint fares between the Capital
Transit Company and the other bus companies. This
contention rests on two assumptions grounded upon the
difference in the way the parties view the facts and the
law governing them. The first argument of the companies
is substantially the same as the one just rejected-that all
of the Transit Company's operations, by both bus and
streetcar, are purely local and therefore not subject to
the Commission's jurisdiction. The second contention is
this: Sections 216 (c) and (e) permit but do not require
motor carriers to establish through routes and joint rates
with other types of carriers; since the companies view
the facts as failing to show that through routes or joint
rates have voluntarily been established as to Transit's
streetcars and the Virginia buses, they argue that the
Commission cannot require their establishment. The
Commission found, however, that Transit had voluntarily
established through routes, and contends its finding has
support in the evidence 'and consequently sustains its
order. It also relies on its power under § 216 (e) to prescribe through rates for all segments of an interstate
transportation carried on between motor carriers. This
power it argues is broad enough to authorize an order for

U. S.. v. CAPITAL TRANSIT CO.
357

Opinion of the Court.

joint rates for interstate carriage conducted by a company which, as it found this one did, uses streetcars and
buses as an integrated unit in carrying out interstate transportation. We think that, under the facts land circumstances shown, the Commission's findings are not subject
to attack and that it acted within its statutory authority
in prescribing the through rates.
As previously pointed out, twice a day more than 15,000
government employees traveled between the Virginia
agencies and their homes via one of the four bus systems.
Most of them either went to or from these bus terminals
from or to their homes over any of Transit's then available buses or streetcars. Their travel was at certain hours
each day, at which special rush hour buses and cars were
made available for their carriage. Their interstate journey to work actually began at the time they boarded a
Transit bus or streetcar near their home, and actually
ended when they alighted from the Virginia-going bus at
their place of work. On returning from work their interstate journey actually began when they boarded a bus
near their work and actually ended when they alighted
from a Transit streetcar or bus near their home. True,
their interstate trip was broken at the District termini
of the Virginia buses, when they stepped from one vehicle
to another. But in the commonly accepted sense of the
transportation concept, their entire trip, was interstate.
Baltimore & Ohio S. W. R. Co. v. Settle, 260 U. S. 166.
And the fact that, except as to Transit, they paid a combination of two rates, one for travel wholly within the
District, and the other for travel between the District and
Virginia, and the journey from their residences to Virginia
and back again was taken in two segments, does not mean
that the total interstate trip was not on a "through route."
Virginian R. Co. v. United States, 272 U. S.658, 666-667;
St. Louis S. W. R. Co. v. United States, 245 U. S. 136,
139-140.

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Moreover, Transit Company itself conducted its own
traffic to and from Virginia and District residential points
as one continuous journey. As previously noted, a Virginia worker could board its local bus or streetcar, ride to
a District terminal of Transit's Virginia-bound bus, board
it, and obtain the benefit of a transfer supplied by Transit.
So also could Transit's passenger get the benefit of a transfer on the return journey home from work. Had Transit not owned the separate vehicles used in the transportation, these arrangements would have constituted "joint
rates" for a "through route" within the statutory meaning
of the term. As carried out by Transit the arrangements
were the exact equivalent of transportation on a "through
route" for a joint fare. Had Transit not owned the vehicles
transporting the passengers on each leg of this interstate journey, it could not have established, consistently
within the Interstate Commerce Act, joint rates with a
particular Virginia bus line to the exclusion of its competitors, for the reason that one given a monopoly of
through traffic could "soon be able to drive its competitors out of business." United States v. Pennsylvania R.
Co., 323 U. S. 612, 617. The Motor Carrier Act, which is
part of the Interstate Commerce Act, need not be interpreted so as to permit the accomplishment of such a
result.
Section 216 (e) expressly authorizes the Commission to
declare unlawful any unreasonable, preferential, or prejudicial rule, classification, regulation or practice arising
from any "individual or joint rate, fare, or charge, demanded, charged, or collected by any common carrier or
carriers by motor vehicle or by any common carrier or carriers by motor vehicle in conjunction with any common
carrier or carriers by railroad . . ." and to "prescribe the
lawful rate, fare, or charge . . . thereafter to be observed
."
We think that under the Commission's findings,
supported by evidence, it did have power to declare these

TRUST OF BINGHAM v. COMM'R.
357

Syllabus.

rates unreasonable and unlawful as it did, and thereafter
to prescribe the lawful rate to be charged for the interstate
trip. This did not, as argued, constitute a regulation of
intrastate commerce.
Other contentions urged by the carriers have been considered, but need not be discussed, since we are satisfied
with the disposition made of them by the Interstate Commerce Commission. Finding no error in the order of the
Commission, the judgment of the district court declining
to enforce it is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS is of the

opinion that the Com-

mission had no jurisdiction of the fares in question, for the
reasons set forth in the opinions below, 55 F. Supp. 51, and
56 F. Supp. 670. MR. JUSTICE REED and MR. JUSTICE
DOUGLAS dissent from part Second of the opinion.

TRUST UNDER THE WILL OF BINGHAM ET AL. V.
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 932.

Argued April 27, 1945.-Decided June 4, 1945.

1. The questions whether, on the facts found by the Tax Court, ex-

penses incurred by trustees in contesting an income tax deficiency
assessment and in winding up the trust after its expiration are
deductible under § 23 (a) (2) of the Internal Revenue Code as expenses for the "management .

.

. of property held for the 'pro-

duction of income," are clear-cut questions of law, the dedision
of which by 'the Tax Court does not foreclose their decision by
the Circuit Court of Appeals or this Court, although their decision
by the Tax Court is entitled to great weight. P. 371.
2. There was mo error of law in the Tax Court's determination, upon
the facts found, that expenses incurred by trustees in contesting an
income tax deficiency assessment and in winding up the trust after
its expiration were deductible under § 23 (a) (2) of the Internal

