OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

FINN, TRUSTEE, v. MEIGHAN, SUBSTITUTED
TRUSTEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 953. Argued April 27, 1945.-Decided May 21, 1945.
1. Section 70 (b) of the Bankruptcy Act as amended, which § 102
makes applicable to proceedings under Chapter X, authorizes enforcement of an express covenant providing for termination of the
lease upon approval of a petition under Chapter X for reorganization of the lessee. P. 302.
,,2; A provision of a lease authorizing forfeiture "if the tenant shall
be adjudged bankrupt or insolvent by any Court," held operative
upon approval of a petition for reorganization of the tenant under
-Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act. P. 303.
3. Since the covenant here provides for forfeiture upon an adjudication of insolvency "by any Court," it is not to be construed as
limited to an adjudica'tion of insolvency by New York courts under
the Debtor and Creditor Law. P. 304.
146 F. 2d 594, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 324 U. S.834, to reviewthe affirmance of an
order in a proceeding under Chapter X of the Bankruptcy

Act adjudging the termination of a lease held by the
debtor.
,Mr.Joseph Lorenz for petitioner.
Mr. Burton C. Meighan, Jr., with whom Mr. Louis A.
Marchisiowas on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Childs Company operates a chain of restaurants. In
August 1943 it filed a voluntary petition for reorganization
under Ch. X of the Bankruptcy Act (52 Stat. 885, 886, 11
U. S. C. §§ 526, 530) alleging that it was unable to pay
its debts as they matured. The petition was approved

FINN v. MEIGHAN.
300

Opinion of the Court.

and petitioner was appointed trustee of the debtor.
Childs Company had been lessee of, and had operated a
restaurant on, certain premises in New York City for over
forty years. Its present lease is for a term of twenty-one
years ending in 1947. That lease contains the following
provision:
"The tenant covenants that . . . if a petition in bankruptcy shall be filed by the tenant or if the tenant shall
be adjudged bankrupt or insolvent by any Court, or if a
trustee in bankruptcy of the tenant shall be appointed in
any suit or proceeding brought by or against the tenant,
then and in each and every such case, the term hereby
granted shall immediately cease, determine and come to
an end, and the landlord may recover and resume possession of the demised premises by any legal means." (Italics
added.)
In May 1944 petitioner advised the lessor that it desired to assume the lease. Respondent replied that the
lease had ceased and come to an end by virtue of the
bankruptcy proceedings. Thereafter, respondent petitioned the bankruptcy court for an order adjudging that
the term granted by the lease had terminated. The court
granted the relief asked by the petition. The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed. 146 F. 2d 594. The case is
here on certiorari.
The bankruptcy court does not look with favor upon
forfeiture clauses in leases. They are liberally construed
in favor 6f the bankrupt lessee so as not to deprive the
estate of property which may turn out to be a valuable
asset. Gazlay v. Williams, 210 U. S. 41; Model Dairy Co.
v. Foltis-Fischer,67 F. 2d 704, 706. But an express covenant of forfeiture has long been held to be enforceable
against the bankruptcy trustee. Empress Theatre Co. v.
Horton,,266 F. 657; Jandrew v. Bouche, 29 F. 2d 346.
And the 1938 revision of the Bankruptcy Act made no
change in that regard. Congress granted the trustee sixty

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

days (unless reduced or extended) in which to assume or
reject a lease. § 70 (b) of the Bankruptcy Act as amended,
11 U. S. C. § 110 (b). But at the same time, Congress
provided:
"A general covenant or condition in a lease that it shall
not be assigned shall not be construed to prevent the trustee from assuming the same at his election and subsequently assigning the same; but an express covenant that
an assignment by operation of law or the bankruptcy of a
specified party thereto or of either party shall terminate
the lease or give the other party an election to terminate
the same shall be enforceable."
This provision was merely declaratory of the law as it
then existed.1
There is some suggestion, however, that that provision
is applicable only in ordinary bankruptcy proceedings and
not to reorganizations under Ch. X. It is pointed out that
frequently the value of enterprises is greatly enhanced by
leases on strategic premises and that if forfeiture clauses
were allowed to be enforced, reorganization plans might
be seriously impaired. But Congress has made the forfeiture provision of § 70 applicable to reorganization proceedings under Ch. X. By § 102 (11 U. S. C. § 502) it provided that the provisions of Ch. VII (which includes
§ 70) should be applicable to proceedings under Ch. X
"insofar as they are not inconsistent or in conflict with the
provisions" of that chapter.2 Moreover, Congress provided in § 102 that "provisions relating to 'bankrupts'
shall be deemed to relate also, to 'debtors,' and 'bankruptcy proceedings' or 'proceedings in bankruptcy' shall
be deemed to include proceedings under this chapter."
1 See

4 Collier on Bankruptcy (14th Ed. 1942), pp. 1239-1241;
.Weinstein, The Bankruptcy Lawv of 1938, p. 159.
And see §§ 114 and 115. As respects the rejection or assumption
of leases under Ch. X see §§ 116 (1), 202, 216 (4). Cf. In re Chase
Commissary Corp., 11 F. Supp. 288.

FINN v. MEIGHAN.
300

303

Opinion of the Court.

Thus we must read § 70 (b) as providing that an express
covenant is enforceable which allows the lessor to terminate the lease if a petition to reorganize the lessee
under Ch. X is approved. Cf. In re Walker, 93 F. 2d 281.
That being the policy adopted by Congress, our duty is to
enforce it.
The question remains whether this lease should be so
construed. There is to be a forfeiture "if the tenant shall
be adjudged bankrupt or insolvent by any Court." It is
said that "insolvent" is used interchangeably with "bankrupt." But it has long been held that a general assignment is an act of bankruptcy whether or not the debtor
is insolvent. West Co. v. Lea, 174 U. S. 590. Thus it
would .seem that "adjudged bankrupt" and "adjudged
insolveli" do not cover precisely the same ground. Moreover, insolvency in the equity sense has always meant
an inability of the debtor to pay his debts as they mature.' Under the Bankruptcy Act it means an insufficiency
of assets at a fair valuation to pay the debts. § 1 (19),
11 U. S. C. § 1 (19). It was long the practice to initiate
reorganizations in the federal equity courts by the filing
of a general creditor's bill which alleged insolvency in the
equity sense. There would accordingly seem to be no
doubt that if a receiver were appointed pursuant to such
a bill, it would bring into operation an express covenant
providing for a forfeiture of a lease "if the tenant shall
be adjudged insolvent by any Court." No reason is apparent why the same result should not obtain in cases of
reorganization under Ch. X.
We do not believe a different result is indicated in this
case merely because the provision for forfeiture on ad3Glenn, Creditors' Rights and Remedies (1915), § 370.
4 Re Metropolitan Railway Receivership, 208 U. S. 90; 1 Gerdes,
Corporate Reorganizations (1936) §§ 13, 19. Part VIII, Report on
the Study and Investigation of Protective and Reorganization Committees, Securities and Exchange Commission (1940), pp. 24 et seq.

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

325 U. S.

judication of insolvency appears in a paragraph otherwise
exclusively devoted to the contingency of bankruptcy.
Petitioner relies on the New York Debtor and Creditor
Law, Consol. L., c. 12, which provides for the discharge
of insolvent debtors in proceedings in the New York
courts. §§ 50-88. It is said that insolvency under that
statute means insolvency in the bankruptcy sense (§ 52)
and that the covenant in question was drawn so as to provide for a forfeiture in the event of such an adjudication.
But as we have said, the covenant in this lease provides
for forfeiture on an adjudication of insolvency "by any
Court." It is ditficult to see in that language a limitation
of the covenant to an adjudication of insolvency by the
New York courts under the Debtor and Creditor Law.'
Affirmed.
CHASE SECURITIES CORP., NOW KNOWN AS AMEREX HOLDING CORP., v. DONALDSON ET AL.,
EXECUTORS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 110.

Argued February 27, 1945.-Decided May 21, 1945.

1. Upon the record of this suit to recover the purchase price of
securities sold in violation of the Minnesota Blue Sky Law and
on misrepresentations, the defendant's immunity from suit can not

be said to have been finally adjudicated by the state courts prior
to the legislature's enactment of an Act which operated to abolish
any defense that the defendant may' have had under the state
statutes of limitations, and the Act therefore did not deprive the
defendant of property without due process of law in violation, of
the Fourteenth Amendment. Following Campbell v. Holt, 115
U. S. 620. P. 310.
5The other provisions of New York law dealing with insolvency
commonly define it as an inability to pay debts as they mature. The
New York authorities are reviewed by Judge Knox in In re Schulte
Retail Stores Corp., 22 F. Supp. 612, 616.

