LINCOLN LIFE INS. CO. v. READ.

673

Counsel for Parties.

LINCOLN NATIONAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. v.
READ, INSURANCE COMMISSIONER OF OKLAHOMA, ET- AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 833. Argued April 24, 25, 1945.-Decided June 11, 1945.
When appellant, an Indiana life insurance company, first qualified to
do business in Oklahoma in 1919, the Oklahoma constitution provided that no foreign insurance company should be granted a license
or be permitted to do business in the State unless it "shall agree
to pay all such taxes and fees as may at any time be imposed" by
the legislature. Foreign life insurance companies were required
to pay annually an "entrance fee" of $200, a 2 per cent tax on all
premiums collected in the State, and a tax of three dollars on each
local agent. A renewal license was obtainable by payment on or
before the last day of February of the gross premium tax on all
premiums received during the preceding calendar year. A statute
of 1941 increased the 2 per cent gross premium tax to 4 per cent.
Held:
1. Appellant was not denied equal protection of the laws in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, either by the 2 per cent 6f
the 4 per cent gross premium tax, even though the tax was inapplicable to domestic corporations. Hanover Ins. Co. v. Harding, 272
U. S. 494, distinguished. P. 675.
A State may impose on a foreign corporation for the privilege
of doing business within its borders more onerous conditions than
it imposes on domestic companies.
2. The equal protection clause does not require that the tax or
rate of tax exacted from a foreign corporation be the same as that
imposed on domestic corporations. P. 678.
3. The fact that the State collects the tax at the end of the license
year is immaterial; what is controlling is that the tax was levied
upon the privilege of entering the State and engaging in business
there. P. 678.
194 Okla. 542, 156 P. 2d 368, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment denying, in part, a recovery of
allegedly unconstitutional taxes.

Mr. Russell V. Johnson, with whom Mr. Charles E.
Francewas on the brief, for appellant.

674

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Fred Hansen, First Assistant Attorney General of Oklahoma, with whom Randell S. Cobb, Attorney General, was
on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The sole question presented by this appeal is whether
Oklahoma has denied appellant the equal protection of
the laws in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Appellant is an Indiana corporation. It qualified to do
business in Oklahoma in 1919 and has continued to do
business there every year since then. The Oklahoma Constitution then provided, as it does now., in Article XIX,
§ 1, that:
"No foreign insurance company shall be granted a
license or permitted to do business in this State until it
shall have complied with the laws of the State, including
the deposit of such collateral or indemnity for the protection of its patrons within this State as may be prescribed
by law, and shall agree to pay all such taxes and fees as
may at any time be imposed by law or act of the Legislature, on foreign insurance companies, and a refusal to pay
such taxes or fees shall work a forfeiture of such license."
Section 2, Article XIX of the Oklahoma Constitution also
required all foreign life insurance companies to pay per
annum an "entrance fee" of $200, and provided:
"Until otherwise provided by law, domestic companies
excepted, each insurance company, including surety and
bond companies, doing business in this State, shall pay an
annual tax of two per centum on all premiums collected
in the State, after all cancellations are dedicted, and a
tax of three dollars on each local agent."
Appellant paid the "entrance fee." It made application
for a license. And it satisfied the other requirements prescribed by Oklahoma for admission to do business in the
State.' In each year subseque
o 1919 it made appli'See Okla. Stat. 1941, Tit. 36, §§ 47, 101.

LINCOLN LIFE INS. CO. v. READ.
673

Opinion of the Court.

cation for a renewal license and satisfied the various
requirements of the State.
When a foreign insurance company desires, for the first
time, to do business in Oklahoma, it must apply for a
license to expire on the last day of February next after
the issue of the license and on or before such date it must
pay the gross premium tax on all premiums, less proper
deductions, received by it in Oklahoma from the date of
its license to and including December 31st of that year.
When a foreign insurance company which holds a license
to do business in Oklahoma for a particular year desires
to do business there during the ensuing year, it must make
application for a license on or before the last day of February of the current license year, pay the gross premium tax
on premiums received in Oklahoma during the preceding
calendar year, and on or before the last day of February
of the ensuing license year pay the gross premium tax on
premiums received by it in Oklahoma during the preceding calendar year. That is to say, the licenses issued
expire on the last day of February next after their issuance; and to obtain a renewal the company must pay on
or before the last day of February in each year the gross
premium tax on all premiums received during the preceding calendar year. We are told by the Supreme Court
of Oklahoma that that has been the uniform administrative practice of the Insurance Commissioner since 1909.
In 1941 Oklahoma enacted a law, effective April 25,
which increased the 2 per cent gross premium tax to 4
per cent.2 Okla. Stat. 1941, Tit. 36, § 104. Like the 2 per
cent tax, this new tax is applicable only to foreign inqurThis tax together with the entrance fee and the annual tax on
each agent is "in lieu of all other taxes or fees, and the taxes and fees
2

of any subdivision or municipality of the State."

Okla. Stat. 1941,

Tit. 36, § 104. On a failure to pay the tax the Insurance Cormissi'r
"shall revoke the certificate of authority granted to the ngent or
agents of that company to transact business in this State." Id

676

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

ance eompanies, not to domestic insurance companies.
Appellant reported the gross premiums collected in Oklahoma during the calendar year 1941, paid the 4 per cent
tax under protest, and brought this suit to recover the
amount so paid. Appellant challenged the constitutionality of both the 2 per cent and the 4 per cent tax. The
Supreme Court of Oklahoma allowed recovery of the taxes
paid at the increased rate on premiums collected prior to
the effectivedate of the act, April 25, 1941. But it disallowed recovery for the balance against the claim that
the exaction of the tax from foreign insurance companies
while domestic insurance companies were exempt violated
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. 156 P. 2d 368. The case is here by appeal. § 237
Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 344.
We can put to one side such cases as Hanover Ins. Co.
v. Harding,272 U. S. 494, where a foreign insurance company, having obtained an unequivocal license to do business in Illinois and built up a business there, was subsequently subjected to discriminatory taxation. In the
present case each annual license, pursuant to the provisions of the Oklahoma Constitution, was granted on condition (1) that appellant agree to pay all such taxes and
fees as the legislature might impose on foreign insurance
companies and (2) that a refusal to pay such taxes or fees
should work a forfeiture of the license. The payment of
the gross premium tax on or before the expiration of the
license year was always a condition precedent to the issuance of the license for the following year. Accordingly,
appellant, unlike the foreign corporation in Hanover Ins.
Co. v. Harding, supra,never obtained from Oklahoma an
unequivocal license to do business there; it agreed to pay
not only for the renewal but also for the retention of its
annual license such taxes as Oklahoma might impose.
It has been held both before and after the Fourteenth
Amendment that a State may impose da a foreign corpo-

LINCOLN LIFE INS. CO. v. READ.
673

677

Opinion of the Court.

ration for the privilege of doing business within its borders
more onerous conditions than; it imposes on domestic
companies. Paul v. Virginia, 8'Wall. 168; Ducat v. Chicago, 10 Wall. 410; Philadelphia Fire Assn. v. New
York, 119 U. S. 110. But it is said that a State may not impose an unconstitutional condition-that is it may not
exact as a condition an infringement or sacrifice of the
rights secured to the corporation by the Constitution of the
United States.' The argument apparently is that since
appellant is entitled to the equal protection of the laws, a
condition cannot be imposed which results in its unequal
and discriminatory treatment.
But that argument proves too much. If it were
adopted, then the long-established rule that a State may
discriminate against foreign corporations by admitting
them under more onerous conditions than it exacts from
domestic companies would go into the discard. Moreover,
it has never been held that a State may not exact from a
foreign corporation as a condition to admission to do business the payment of a tax measured by the business done
within its borders. See Continental Assurance Co. v.
Tennessee, 311 U. S. 5. That was the nature of the tax
imposed in PhiladelphiaFire Assn. v. New York, supra.
That company was licensed to do business in New York
under a law which required it to pay such a tax as its
home State might impose on New York companies doing
business there. After it had qualified to do business in
New York, its home state exacted from foreign corporaIions a tax of 3 per cent on premiums received in that
State. New York accordingly followed suit. The Court
sustained the increased tax, saying that since the license
of the foreign company was subject to the conditions prescribed by the New York statute, the amount of the tax
8

See the cases reviewed in Hanover Ins. Co. v. Harding, 272 U. S.
494, 507-508; Henderson, The Position of Foreign Corporations in
American Constitutional Law (1918), ch. VIII.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

could at any time be increased for the future. "The State,
having the power to exclude entirely, has the power to
change the conditions of admission at any time, for the
future, and to impose as a condition the payment of a new
tax, or a further tax, as a license fee. If it imposes such
license fee as a prerequisite for the future, the foreign
corporation, until it pays such license fee, is not admitted
within the State or within its jurisdiction. It is outside, at
the threshold, seeking admission, with consent not yet
given." 119 U. S. p. 119. And the equal protection clause
does not require the tax or rate of tax exacted from a
foreign corporation as a condition of entry to be the same
as that imposed on domestic corporations. Hanover Ins.
Co. v. Harding, supra, pp. 510-511.
The fact that Oklahoma collects the tax at the end of
the license year is not material. That was done in PhiladelphiaFire Assn. v. New York, supra. The controlling
fact is that the tax though collected later was levied upon
the privilege of entering the State and engaging in business there." Continental Assurance Co. v. Tennessee,
supra.
Affirmed.
MR. JuS CE ROBERTS

dissents.

'It is not contended that'appellant is engaged in interstate commerce. Hence we do not have presented any question concerning the

effect of United States v. South-Eastern UnderwritersAssn., 322 U. S.
533, on the problem.

