SINCLAIR CO. v. INTERCHEMICAL CORP. 327
Opinion of the Court.

SINCLAIR & CARROLL CO., INC. v. INTERCHEMICAL CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO'THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 656.

Argued April 5,1945.-Decided May 21, 1945.

1. In suits in the federal courts for infringeihent of patents, the better
practice usually is for the court to inquire fully into the validity
of the patent. P. 330.
2. It is essential to the validity of a patent that the subject-matter
reveal "invention," "more ingenuity . . . than the work of a
mechanic skilled in the art." P. 330.
3. Patent No. 2,0S7,190, claims 3, 10, 11, 12 and 13, to Gessler, for a
printer's ink which is non-volatile at room temperature and highly
volatile when heated, which involved merely the selection of a
known compound to meet known requirements, held invalid for
want of invention. P. 334.
144 F. 2d 842, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

323 U. S. 705, to review a decree which, upon

appeal from a decree holding a patent invalid and not

infringed, 50' F. Supp. 881, held the patent valid and
infringed.
Mr. William D. Mitchell, with whom Messrs. Walter H.
Free and Mark N.
petitioner.

Donohue were

on the, brief, for

Mr. Robert W. Byerly, with whom Mr. Ralph M. Wat-

son was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the Court.

This infringement 'suit was brought by the assignees
of a patent on a printing ink. Respondent, Interchemical
Corporation, asserts that inks made by the petitioner infringe on claims 3, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of U. S. Patent No.
2,087,190 which was issued to Albert E. Gessler on July

13, 1937. Claim 3, which is typical, is as follows: "A print-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

ing ink which is substantially non-drying at ordinary temperatures and dries instantly on heating of the printed
matter, consisting of coloring matter dispersed in an organic viscous yehicle consisting of a liquid component and
a solid component completely dissolved in the liquid component in sufficient quantity to give the ink the consistency
of an ordinary oil-varnish printing ink-the solid component being a member of the group consisting of natural
and synthetic resins and cellulose compounds, substantially all of the liquid component having a vapor pressure
at 20' C. as low as that of diethylene glycol monobutyl
ether at 200 C., and the major part of the liquid component having a vapor pressure which at 1500 C. approximates that of ethyl alcohol at ordinary temperatures and
forming a stable solution with the solid component." In
other words, Gessler claims to have invented an ink which
will not dry at room temperature but which will dry instantly upon the application of heat after printing. Such
an ink is of no particular value in the printing of newspapers or other publications which use absorbent paper.
This can be done acceptably with ordinary inks containing
linseed oil which is non-volatile at all relevant temperatures. The paper absorbs the ink when one side is printed,
and the other side can be printed immediately without
danger of smudging.
But the ink disclosed in the patent does have utility in
the printing of magazines and other materials which use
smooth non-absorbent paper. Since its disclosure by
Gessler, it or similar inks which are claimed to infringe
have been used to print "The New Yorker," "Collier's,"
and "The Saturday Evening Post." Such publications previously would require considerably more time for printing
since the reverse side of the paper which they used could
not be printed until the first side was dry. Nor could the
sheets be stacked or folded without danger of "offset"
printing. The smooth paper would not absorb the linseed-

SINCLAIR CO. v. INTERCHEMICAL CORP. 329
327

Opinion of the Court.

oil inks, and delay of from one to twenty-four hours was
necessary before printing was sufficiently dry to allow the
sheets to be worked upon again.
Many efforts were made to eliminate the necessity for
delay. The problem was complicated by the fact that the
presses used in this kind of printing are equipped with a
long series of ink-distributing rollers to spread out th&ink
to the optimum thin film before it is applied to the type.
Hence, when inks with volatile components were used,
they would dry on the rollers before they got to the type.
And if inks with non-volatile ingredients-like linseed
oil-were used, they would not dry except by slow oxidation. Other approaches to the solution of the problem included the exposure of sheets printed from linseed-oil inks
to ozone, but that process was dangerous and not wholly
satisfactory. Gessler's ink combines the qualities of an ink
which does not dry on the rollers and one which dries
quickly after printing when heat is applied to it.
These characteristics of the ink result from the nature
of the solvent which is one of its components. Gessler,
in his specification, named butyl carbitol (diethylene glycol monobutyl ether is said to be the more accurate
scientific term) but that compound was given only as an example, and most of the inks which his company now makes
contain "narrow cuts" of petroleum in place of butyl carbitol. A narrow cut of petroleum consists of only a few
kinds of hydrocarbons, and consequently evaporates consistently since each of the hydrocarbons has substantially
the same v~por pressure curve. The allegedly infringing
inks similarly are made with narrow cuts of petroleum.
All of these solvents have the peculiar quality of being
relatively non-volatile at ordinary room temperature but
highly volatile at a temperature of 1500 C., a temperature
*to which paper can safely be heated without burning.
There is no question that inks containing these solvents
have enabled magazines to be printed on high-speed ro-

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

tary presses which are furnished with heating devices,
without interruption for drying.
The District Court held Gessler's patent invalid because
anticipated by the prior art, and held that the petitioner's
inks did not infringe. Interchemical Corp, v. Sinclair &
CarrollCo., 50 F. Supp. 881. Th6 Circuit Court reversed,
holding the patent valid and infringed. Interchemical
Corp. v. Sinclair& CarrollCo., 144 F. 2d 842. We granted
certiorari. 323 U. S. 705.
There has been a tendency among the lowei. federal
courts in infringement suits to dispose of them where possible on the ground of non-infringement without going
into the question of validity of the patent. Irvin v. Buick
Motor Co., 88 F. 2d 947,951; Aero Spark Plug Co. v. B. G.
Corp., 130 F. 2d 290; Franklinv. Masonite Corp., 132 F. 2d
800. It has come to be recognized, however, that of the
two questions, validity has the greater public importance,
Cover v. Schwartz, 133 F. 2d 541, and the District Court
in this case followed what will usually be the better practice by inquiring fully into the validity of this patent.
A long line of cases has held it to be an essential requirement for the. validity of a patent that the subject-matter
display "invention," "more ingenuity . . . than the work

of a mechanic skilled in the art." Hicks v. Kelsey, 18
Wall. 670; Slawson v. Grand Street R. Co., 107 U. S. 649;
Phillipsv. Detroit, 111 U. S. 604; Morrisv. McMillin, 112
U. S. 244; Saranac Automatic Machine Corp. v. Wirebounds Patents Co., 282 U. S. 704; Honolulu Oil Corp. v.
Halliburton,306 U. S. 550; Cuno Engineering Corp. v.
Automatic Devices Corp., 314 U. S. 84, 90. This test is
often difficult to apply; but its purpose is clear. Under
this test, some substantial innovation is necessary, an innovation for which society is truly indebted to the efforts
of the patentee. Whether or not those efforts are of a
special kind does not concern us. The primary purpose
of our patent system is not reward of the individual but

SINCLAIR CO. v. INTERCHEMICAL CORP. 331
327

Opinion of the Court.

the advancement of the arts and sciences. 1 Its inducement is directed to disclosure of advances in knowledge
which will be beneficial to society; it is not a certificate
of merit, but an incentive to disclosure. See HartfordEmpire Co. v. United States, 323 U. S. 386, 432-433. Consequently it is not concerned with the quality of the
inventor's mind, but with the quality of his product.
The patent in suit was not the product of long and difficult experimentation. Although like other patent cases,
this has an 'extensive record, it is hard to see wherein Gessler's invention consists. In 1930, he was asked to make an
odorless ink, and he selected from a catalog of a chemical
manufacturer three solvents which the catalog indicated
to be relatively odorless.. Their vapor pressures, that is,
their rates of evaporation at various temperatures, were
also listed. He tried inks made with each of the compounds as a solvent and decided that butyl carbitol was
the most satisfactory, since it did not dry while on the
rollers, at ordinary temperature.
The company which had requested the odorless ink,
however, found that it was unsatisfactory for other reasons and, after some further effort, Gessler stopped trying
to solve that-problem. Sometime in 1932, however, the
same company asked Gessler whether he could supply
them with an ink "that. would be dry after being printed?
We can put it over some kind of heating device." Gess1 See the testimony of Commissioner Coe before the TNEC: "It is
not the principal purpose of the patent laws of our own country or of
any nation to reward an individual. The purpose is much deeper and
the effect much wider than individual gain. It is the promotion of
science and the advancement of the arts looking to the general welfare of the Nation that the patent laws hope to accomplish. The individual reward is only the lure to bring about this much broader objective. Every patent granted benefits society by adding to the sum total
of human knowledge, but that is not enough, and that alone will not
achieve the ultimate goal of the patent system." TNEC Hearings,
Part 3, p. 857.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.

332

Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

ler's answer was, "Yes, I think we could. In fact, one of
those inks I made for you in the beginning would do that."
Gessler testified as follows: "And now, when Mr. Cray
came, in the year 1932, and told me that heating units,
steam-heated rollers are used on printing presses, that
was the last key that I needed for the solution of the problem. I had not known that before, and I knew that it I
could apply any heat to the thin film of those inks that
they would dry almost instantaneously. With that in
mind that was the mental background, I would say, that
I sent this particular ink to Mr. Cray. I did not send him
a number of inks or a selection of inks, but I sent him jivst
one specific ink." And with respect to the solvents he had
chosen, Gessler testified further:
Q. What I want to get straight in my mind,
Dr.
Gessler, is this: You selected these three, is that right?
A. That is right.
Q. Did ,you select them from a much longer list?
A. That is right.
Q. And before you selected them you tried them all
out, did ycu? A. No. You see the list is listed according to the boiling point, and if you followed on I
took it from a certain boiling point on upwards.
Q. Oh, I see. You took them out of a long list in
accordance with their boiling point? A. That is correct. That was my first indication of evaporation
rate.
Q ....

In selecting these three solvents that you

referred to, butyl cellosolve, carbitol and butyl carbitol, did you have reference to a Carbide & Carbon
Chemicals Corporation catalog? A. I knew them. I
don't know if I had reference, but I knew naturally
those solvents.
Q. You may have referred to a catalog? A. I may
have, certainly. I most probably had the catalog.
Q. You got copies of their catalogs, did you? A.
Oh, yes.

SINCLAIR CO. v. INTERCHEMICAL CORP. 333
Opinion of the Court.

327

Q. On the fly-leaf of the Carbide & Carbon catalog
there is a list of their products. Do you remember
that list (handing to witness)? A. A,similar list.
Q. That gives boiling points and vapor pressures?
A. It does.
Q. And you may have selected these three solvents
that we are talking about from that list? A. That is
possible, although I knew the solvents.

I was very

conversant with them. I told you a while ago why.
Butyl carbitol was first put on the market in 1929, and
subsequently was :listed in the catalogs of Carbide & Carbon Chemicals Corporation. It cannot be said that Gessler's contribution was a recognition that a solvent having
the peculiar qualities of negligible vapor pressure at room
temperature and high vapor pressure at 1500 C. was what
was needed. Both the circuit court and the district court
found that an article written in 1931, referred to as the

It is difficult
Hanson article, had posed the problem.
to believe that if Hanson had known of the qualities of
butyl carbitol, if he had had the Carbide & Carbon catalog
before him, he or any other person skilled in the art

could not have devised the ink which Gessler claims to
have invented.

We reach this conclusion even though

2 The relevant part of the Hanson article, which appears in the

have different boiling
record, is as follows: "The solvents availal
points ranging through a broad scale, but unfortunately for this problem their vapor pressure curves are nearly parallel. If we choose one
from the group with a boiling point well under 2500 F. [1210 C.], the
highest practical heat to apply to a printed sheet, we find that at room
temperature its vapor pressure is still so great that drying will progress
rapidly. On the other hand, if one is selected with a vapor pressure
so low at room temperature that little drying takes place, at 200'
to 250 ° F., we find the boiling point hardly attained or not even
reached.
"If we could only flatten the curve of a high boiling solvent with a
vapor pressure of 1 in. of mercury or less at 80' down to a point where
at 30 in. the boiling temperature would be reduced to only 1500 or so it
would not take us long to compound an ink to meet the general.
characteristics for a plastic ink set forth above."

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Hanson testified in an affidavit introduced in support of a
motion for rehearing that he had worked for over a year
trying to produce such an ink and did not succeed.
The District Court based its judgment on anticipation
by prior patents. Most of these pertained to inks which
were not used in -ordinary printing: Lefferts and Stevens,
No. 380,654, issued April 3, 1888, was an ink used for
printing on celluloid and other pyroxyline compounds;
the Doughty and McElroy patents, Nos. 1,439,696 and
1,450,692, issued December 26, 1922 and April 3, 1923
taught an ink which was mainly useful for stamping with
metallic inks by means of heated dies. But the Jirousek
patent, No. 1,954,627, issued April 10, 1934, was for an
ordinary printing ink. Jirousek's patent was directed to
"acomposition . .. which can set quickly and dry rapidly
and also handle and feed properly and distribute freely."
And the patent specifies, "In the use of such compositions,
immediately after the impression is made, heat should be
applied, and most advantageously this may be accomplished by a suitable heater, electric, gas, etc., arranged
on or adjacent the press, so that the delivered printed impression is subjected to a substantial degree of heat to
complete the setting action."
The inks disclosed in these prior patents did not contain the same solvent or solvents similar to those which
Gessler recommended and which his company and the
petitioners now use. They had different vapor pressures
both at room temperature and at 1500 C. But all these
patents taught an ink made with a solvent that would be
non-volatile at room temperature and highly volatile when
heated. Gessler's solvent is undoubtedly more satisfactory than any of the solvents mentioned in these patents,
but it must be remembered that all but one of these patents were granted before butyl carbitol appeared on the
market. The fact is that Gessler himself to a large extent has abandoned butyl carbitol and now uses a narrow

MINE WORKERS v. EAGLE-PICHER CO. 335
327

Statement of the Case.

cut of petroleum. Even assuming that if Gessler had
discovered the compound he would be entitled to a patent,
he did not discover it. Reading a list and selecting a
known compound to meet known requirements is no more
ingenious than selecting the last piece to put into the

last opening in a jig-saw puzzle.

Itis not invention.

The

judgment below is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLAck and MR. JusTICE DOUGLAS concur

in the result.

INTERNATIONAL UNION OF MINE, MILL &
SMELTER WORKERS, LOCALS NOS. 15, 17, 107,
108 and 111, (C. I. 0.) ET AL. V. EAGLE-PICHER

MINING & SMELTING CO.

ET, AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 337.

Argued January 31, 1945.-Decided May 28, 1945.

1. Labor unions which intervened in the Circuit Court of Appeals in
support of a petition by the National Labor Relations Board to
revoke an enforcement order and to remand the cause to the Board,
held to have standing to seek review of a denial of the petition,
even though the Board elected not to seek review. P. 338.
2. The National Labor Relations Board, having sought and obtained a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals for enforcement
of an order of the Board, is not entitled as of right-in the absence
of fraud or mistake chargeable to the respondent, and after expiration of the term of court at which the decree was entered-to have
remedial provisions of the decree set aside and the case remanded to
it for prescription of relief which it deems more appropriate to
effectuate the policy of the National Labor Relations Act. P. 339.
3. American Chain & Cable Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 142
F. 2d 909, disitinguished. P. 342.
141 F. 2d 843, affirmed.

CERTIORARI,

323 U. S. 695, to review a decree dismissing

a petition of the National Labor Relations Board to vacate

