JEWELL RIDGE CORP. v. LOCAL.
Syllabus.

91

authority into local duties with consequent debilitation of
local responsibility.
The complicated and subtle problems for law enforcement raised by the Court's decision emphasize the conclusion that § 20 was never designed for the use to which
it has now been fashioned. The Government admits that
it is appropriate to leave the punishment of such crimes
as this to local authorities. Regard for this wisdom in
federal-State relations was not lefj by Congress to executive discretion. It is, we are convinced, embodied in the
statute itself.
JEWELL RIDGE COAL CORPORATION v. LOCAL
NO. 6167, UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 721.

Argued March 9, 1945.-Decided May 7, 1945.

1. Time spent by miners in traveling underground between the portal
and the working face of bituminous coal mines, held requiired by
§ 7 of the.Fair Labor Standards Act to be included in the workweek
and to be compensated accordingly. Following Tennessee Coal Co.
v. Muscoda Local, 321 U. S. 590. Pp. 163, 166.
2. The requirement of § 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act that
time spent by miners in traveling underground between the portal
and the working face of bituminous coal mines be included in the
workweek and compensated accordingly cannot be frustrated by
*ay contrary custom or contract. P. 167.
3. The legislative history of the Fair Labor Standards Act do~s not
require a conclusion different from th.4 here reached. P. 168.
4. A statement of the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division
favoring the computation of working time in the bituminous coal
industry on a "face to face" basis, being legally untenable, is not
entitled to the weight usually accorded the Administrator's rulings, interpretations, and opinions. P. 169.
145 F. 2d 10, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 707, to review the reversal of a
judgment for the plaintiff (petitioner here) in a declaratory judgment action seeking a construction of the Fair
Labor Standards Act. 53 F. Supp. 935.

Messrs. William A. Stuart and George Richardson, Jr.
for petitioner.
Mr. Crampton Harris, with whom Messrs. Welly K.
Hopkins, Frank W. Rogers and Leonard Muse were on the
brief, for respondents.
Messrs. Edward R. Burke and John C. Gall filed a brief
on behalf of the Southern Coal Producers Association, as
amicus curiae, in support of petitioner.
Solicitor General Fahy and Mr. Douglas B. Maggs filed
a brief on behalf of the Administrator of the Wage and
Hour Division, U. S. Department of Labor, as amicus
curiae, in support of respondents.
delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In Tennessee Coal Co. v. Muscoda Local, 321 U. S.
590, this Court held that underground travel in iron ore
mines constituted work and hence was included in the
compensable workweek within the meaning of Section
7 (a) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 52 Stat.
1060, 1063, 29 U. S. C. § 207 (a). The sole issue in this
case is whether any different result must be reached as
regards underground travel in bituminous coal mines.
The petitioner, Jewell Ridge Coal Corporation, owns
two bituminous coal mines in Virginia. It instituted this
declaratory .judgment action against the respondent
unions and certain of their officials, representing all of
petitioner's underground mine workers. The respondents filed an answer and a counterclaim. By stipulation,
MR.

JUSTICE MURPHY'

JEWELL RIDGE CORP. v. LOCAL.
161

Opinion of the Court.

the parties sought, to determine "what constitutes the
working time which makes up the workweek of plaintiff's
underground employees within the meaning of Section 7
of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, and what
amounts, if any, are due and unpaid to such employees
under said Section, the determination of such amounts,
if any, to, be later referred to a special master." This
issue relates only to the work performed by petitioner's
underground miners between April 1, 1943, and June 20,
1943.
After hearing evidence and argument, the District
Court concluded that petitioner had correctly computed
the workweek on a "face to face" basis and that the Act
did not require that the workweek include "either time
spent by such employees outside the portal of the mines
before entering therein, or time spent in traveling from
the portals to their usual places of work and return."
53 F. Supp. 935, 952. Only the issue as to travel time is
involved here. The Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals felt
that the Tennessee Coal case, which was decided by this
Court subsequent to the entry of the District Court's judgment in this proceeding, could not be distinguished in
principle and accordingly reversed the judgment on that
basis. 145 F. 2d 10.
We agree with the court below that there is no substantial factual or legal difference between this and the Tennessee Coal case and that underground travel in bituminous
coal mines as well as. ih iron ore mines is included within
the compensable workweek contemplated by § 7 (a) of
the Fair Labor Standards Act.
Factually, underground travel between the portals and
working faces of petitioner's two bituminous coal mines
bears all the indicia of work. While the District Court
here found "no such painful and burdensome conditions
as those described in the iron ore mines," 53 F. Supp. at
949, all three of the essential elements of work as set forth

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

in the Tennessee Coal case, 321 U. S. at 598, are present in
this instance:
1. Physical or mental exertion (whether burdensome or
not). After arriving at petitioner's mines by foot or
vehicle, the miners first obtain their lamps from the lamp
house near the main portal. They then enter the man
trips at the portal and are transported down to the underground man trip stations-a journey varying in distance
from 4,250 feet to 25,460 feet. Each man trip is composed
of a train of small empty coal cars drawn by an electric
motor or locomotive. From seven to eight men sit on a
bench or on the floor of each car, which is only a few feet
high. The cars apparently are not overcrowded. If the
roof of the passageway is sufficiently high the men are able
to sit upright as they ride. But they must be on constant
guard for the frequent low ceilings which force them to
bend over to avoid striking their heads. And the dangers
of falling slate and falling ceilings are ever present.
The District Court found that while this journey is
"definitely not luxurious" it is "neither painful nor unduly
uncomfortable, and is less hazardous than other phases of
mining operations." In this-connection it should be
noted that the record shows that six persons suffered compensable injuries, involving absence from work for seven
days or more, while riding on petitioner's man trips from
January 1, 1939, to October 31, 1943. There is also evidence of two deaths and numerous minor injuries to the
miners.
After arriving at the man trip stations, the miners check
in at a nearby check-in board, a practice that differs inconsequentially from the procedure followed by the miners
in the Tennessee Coal case of checking in at a tally house
on the surface. - They then collect their tools, equipment,
explosives, etc., and carry them on foot to the working
places, usually some 500 to 1,500 feet away. This requires that they proceed through dark and dangerous

JEWELL RIDGE CORP. v. LOCAL.
161

Opinion of the Court.

tunnels, often so low as to force them to crouch over while
carrying their burdens. Moreover, they must keep constant vigil against live electric wires, falling rocks and
obstacles under foot. At the end of each shift, the miners
make their return journey to the man trip stations, deposit
their tools and equipment and ascend to the portal via the
man trips.
In addition, approximately 72 men at petitioner's Jewell
Ridge mine enter the mine at places other than the main
portal and either catch the man trips at some man trip
station inside the mine or walk all the way to their places
of work.
These undisputed facts compel the conclusion that the
underground travel in petitioner's mines involves physical
and mental exertion. That it may not be so burdensome
or disagreeable as some of the aspects of the travel described in the Tennessee Coal case is not of controlling
significance in this respect.
2. Exertion controlled or requiredby the employer. It
is obvious that the underground travel is both controlled
and required by petitioner. Both the man trip transportation and travel by foot occur solely on petitioner's
property and occur only as and when required by petitioner. Petitioner organizes, operates and supervises all
aspects of the man trips. Definite schedules are arranged
and maintained by petitioner. A company foreman rides
6n each man trip and occasionally gives work instructions
during the journey. He also compels compliance with the
numerous safety rules for man trips adopted by petitioner in compliance with state law. Layoff or discharge
may result from a miner's continued failure to obey these
rules.
3. Exertion pursued necessarily and primarily for the
benefit of the employer and his business. It is too obvious
to require extended discussion that here, as in the Tennessee Coal case, the underground travel is undertaken

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

necessarily and primarily for the benefit of petitioner and
its coal mining operations. The miners do not engage
in this travel for their own pleasure or convenience. It
occurs only because it is a necessary prerequisite to the
extraction of coal from the mines, which is the prime
purpose of petitioner's business. Without such travel the
coal could not be mined.
Thus the three basic elements of work of a type necessarily included within the workweek as contemplated by
the Act are plainly evident from these facts. Those who
are forced to travel in underground mines in order to earn
their livelihood are unlike the ordinary traveler or the
ordinary workman on his way to work. They must
journey beneath the crust of the earth, far removed from
the fresh and open air and from the beneficial rays of the
sun. A heavy toll is exacted from those whose lot it isto
ride and walk and mine beneath the surface. From the
moment they enter the portal until they leave they are
subjected to constant hazards and dangers; they are left
begrimed and exhausted by their continuous physical and
mental exertion.
To conclude that such subterraneous travel is not work
isto ignore reality completely. We therefore are compelled to hold that the only reasonable conclusion to be
drawn from the District Court's findings of fact and from
other undisputed evidence is that the underground travel
in petitioner's two mines is work and that the time spent
in such travel should be included within the workweek for
purposes of § 7 (a) of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
The other propositions advanced by petitioner are also
answered by the principles of the Tennessee Coal case.
Thus petitioner places heavy reliance upon the conclusion
of the District Court that "by the universal custom and
usage of the past fifty years, and by agreement of the
parties in every collective bargaining agreement -which
was ever made, it was universally recognized that in the
bituminous coal industry, travel time was not work time."

JEWELL RIDGE CORP. v. LOCAL.
161

Opinion of the Court.

53 F. Supp. at 950. But even though the customs and
contracts prevalent in this industry were to compute the
workday only from the time spent "face to face" with the
seams, we need only repeat what we said on this subject
in the Tennessee Coal opinion, 321 U. S. at 602: "But in
any event it is immaterial that there may have been a
prior custom or contract not to consider certain work
within the compass of the workweek or not to compensate employees for certain portions of their work. The
Fair Labor Standards Act was not designed to codify or
perpetuate those customs and contracts which allow an
employer to claim all of an employee's time while compensating him only for a part of it. Congress intended,
instead, to achieve a uniform national policy of guaranteeing compensation for all work or employment engaged in
by employees covered by the Act. Any custom or contract
falling short of that basic policy, like an agreement to
pay less than the minimum wage requirements, cannot be
utilized to deprive employees of their statutory rights."
Such a conclusion is the only method of abhieving the
plain design of § 7 (a) to spread employment through imposing the overtime pay requirement on the employer and
to compensate the employee for the burden of a workweek in excess of the hours fixed by the Act. Walling v.
Helmerich & Payne, 323 U. S.37, 40; Overnight Motor
Co. v. Missel, 316 U. S.572, 577, 578. This necessitates
that the workweek be computed on the basis of the hours
spent in actual work and that compensation be paid accordingly. And even those employers who pay wages
above the minimum and who maintain no substandard
working -conditions must respect this statutory pattern.
Conversely, employees are not to be deprived of the benefits of the Act simply because they are well paid or because,
they are represented by strong bargaining agents. This
may in some instances require certain modifications and
adjustments in existing customs and contracts in order
to include all the hours actually worked in the statutory

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

workweek or to compensate at the proper rate for all of
such labor. But if these modifications and adjustments
are not made, the plain language and policy of § 7 (a) are
frustrated.

Petitioner here has presented no cogent reason for legalizing such a frustration, however unintentional in character, of the statutory scheme. Statements in the legislative

history to the effect that the Act was aimed primarily at
overworked and underpaid workers and that the Act did

not attempt to interfere with bona fide collective bargaining agreements are indecisive of the issue in the present
case.'

Such general remarks, when read fairly and in

. Thus, for example, the District Court relied in part upon a statement made by the Senator in charge of the original bill, which did not
become law as it was then framed, to the effect that the bill did not
affect collective agreements already made or hereafter to be made between employer and empldyee. 81 Cong. Rec. 7650. Aside from the
fact that this statement was- made with reference to entirely different
provisions than those presently in the Act, a full and fair reading of the
entire debate at the time in question demonstrates that the possibility
of affecting or setting aside collective agreements when they did not
coincide with statutory standards was definitely understood and appreciated. This is shown by the following remarks (81 Cong. Rec.
7650): '
"Mr. WALSH. Next, does the bill affect collective-bargaining agreements already made or hereafter to be made between employers and
employees?

"Mr.

BLACK.

It does not.

"Mr. WALSH. There is one exception to that, is there not? The
bill does not affect collective-bargaining agreements where the hoursare less than 40 per week, or where the wages are more than 40 cents per
hour?

"Mr.

BLACK.

That is correct.

But if a collective-bargaining agreement has been
entered into at 36 cents per hour wages, the board would have jurisdictio to set that agreement aside and to fix, if the facts warrant it, a
minimu)m wage of 40 cents?" (Italics"added.)
"Mr. BLACK. The board would have jurisdiction to do it, but
under the provisions of the law it would be my judgment that the
"MT

WALSH.

JEWELL RIDGE CORP. v. LOCAL.
161

Opinion of the Court.

light of their true context, were obviously not made with
this narrow issue in mind and they cannot be said to
demonstrate a Congressional desire to allow the coal ifidustry. to use private customs and agreements as an excuse
for failure to compute the workweek as contemplated
by § 7 (a). In fact, some of these statements expressly
recognize the necessity of modifying or setting aside those
collective agreements that did not conform with statutory standards.2
Nor can we give weight to the fact that the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division in 1940 issued a
public statement that he would not regard the practice of
computing working time on a "face to face" basis in the
bituminous coal industry as unreasonable in light of the
prevailing customs and practices, supported by a long
history of bona fide collective bargaining. This statement, being legally untenable, lacks the usual respect to
be accorded the Administrator's rulings, interpretations
and opinions. Cf. Skidmore v. Swift & Co., 323 U. S.
134, 140.
Moreover, as in the Tennessee Coal case, we are not concerned here with the use of bona fide contracts or customs
board would be very reluctant, indeed, to attempt to interfere with a
bona-fide agreement mirde between employer and employee.
"Mr. WALSH. I think the Senator is correct; but the situation
might well exist that the board, in fixing a minimum wage in a case
where the wage of the employees was less than 40 cents, after a survey
and study of the question, and taking into consideration some factors
that it must take into consideration in fixing the wage, might decide,
let us say, upon 38 cents per hour. If it is found that in some other
industry of like character and nature there was a collective-bargaining agreement providing for the payment of 36 cents an hour it
would, would it not, take jurisdiction and set aside that collectivebargaining agreement insofar as the facts showed that 38 cents was a
fair rate?" (Italics added.)

"Mr.
2

BLACK.

It would."

See note 1, supra.

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACK9oN,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

to settle difficult and doubtful questions as to whether certain activityor nonactivity constitutes work. Cf. Armour
& Co. v. Wantoek, 323 U. S. 126. Nor do we nake any
intimations at this time concerning the validity of agreements whereby, in a bona fide attempt to avoid complex
difficulties of computation, travel time is averaged or fixed
at an arbitrary figure and underground miners are paid
on that basis rather than according to their individual
travel time.
We are dealing here solely with a set of facts that leaves
no reasonable doubt that underground travel in petitioner's two bituminous coal mines partakes of the very essence of work.' This travel must therefore be included
within the workweek for purposes of § 7 (a) of the Fair
Labor Standards Act regardless of any custom or contract
to the contrary at the time in question. Thus shall each
of petitioner's miners receive his own reward according
to his own labor.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, dissenting..
The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR. JUSTICE

FRANKFURTER, and I are constrained respectfully to dissent from this decision because (1) It either invalidates
collectively bargained agreements which govern the matter in difference between these parties or it ignores their
explicit terms; (2) Neither invalidation nor disregard of
collectively bargained agreements is authorized by any
word of Congress, and legislative history gives convincIndeed, to the extent that petitioner's "face to face" collective
bargaining agreements excluded travel time from the compensable
workweek there was an implied recognition that underground travel
was work and that such work would normally call for additional compensation in the absence of, a specific "face to face" provision to the
contrary. And the widespread practice in other coal producing
nations of including travel time or portions thereof in the workday
further bears out the conclusion that underground travel is work.

JEWELL RIDGE CORP. v. LOCAL.
161

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

ing indications that Congress did not intend the Fair Labor
Standards Act to interfere with them as this decision holds
it does; (3) Congress withheld interference with collectively bargained contracts at the request of the United
Mine Workers and expressed a policy to observe and preserve collectively bargained arrangements applying to the
coal industry in other almost contemporaneous legislation specifically directed to the problems of that industry; (4) This decision is contrary to interpretations of the
Act made by the Administrator upon the recommendation of the United Mine Workers, and it denies to the
Administrator's rulings the respect we have been compelling lower courts to render to them' in the cases of
others; (5) The decision necessarily invalidates the basis
on which the Government itself has operated the mines
and brings into question the validity of the Government's
strike settlement agreements and of all existing miners'
agreements; (6) It proceeds on a principle which the
Court has unanimously denied to unorganized workmen
for whose benefit the Act was passed. It is the purpose of
this opinion to set forth particulars supporting these
grounds of dissent.
1. The Court's decision either invalidatesor ignores the
explicit terms of collectively bargained agreements between these parties based on a half century of custom in
the industry. This action involves labor in two mines,
each employing approximately five hundred men. At all
times in issue the mines have been unionized and the workmen have been organized by the United Mine Workers of
America. This union has been selected and recognized
as the bargaining agent of the men. Their hours, wages,
and worliing conditions have been fixed by collective
bargaining.
Employees in-these mines first were organized as members of the United Mine Workers of America in 1933, following promulgation of the N. I. R. A. Code of Fair Com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKsoN,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

petition for the industry. This code was drawn up by
representatives of the Union and of the operators and was
approved by the President of the United States. It provided for the "face to face" wage basis which makes no
direct allowance for travel time, but, as has been pointed
out on behalf of the Union, the wage scale was fixed at a
level intended indirectly to compensate travel time.
Basic wage agreements thereafter were entered into between the Union and the operators as of April 1, 1934
(continued in effect by successive extension agreements
from March 31, 1935 until October 1935); again as of
October 1, 1935; and as of Apr; 2, 1937; again as of May
12, 1939, when the Fair Labor tandards Act was nearly
a year old and had been in effect for nearly six months,
a new agreement was bargained which, like all the previous
wage agreements, expressly provided for the "face to
face" basis, necessarily excluding all travel time from the
workweek. The last basic wage agreement reached by
collective bargaining previous to the commencement of
this action, dated April 1, 1941 aid to extend for a
period of two years, did the same. These agreements are
admitted and, if valid, govern the dispute between the
parties.
But the- Court does not honor these agreements. We
have repeatedly and consistently held that collectively
bargained agreements must be honored, even to the extent that employers may not, while they exist, negotiate
with an individual employee or a minority, cf. J. I. Case
06, v. Labor Board, 321 U. S. 332, and must pay heavy
penaltie§ for violating them. Cf. Order of RailroadTelegraphers v. Railway Express Agency, 321 U. S. 342. And
n6w .at the first"demand of employees the Court throws
these agreements overboard, even intimating that to observe agreements, bargained long before enactment of the
Fair Labor Standards Act, would be "legalizing" a frusiiition of the statutory scheme.

JEWELL RIDGE CORP. v. LOCAL.
161

JACKSON, J., dissenting.

The suggestion that the agreements were "frustrations"
of the statutory scheme has not the slightest warrant in
this record. This "face to face" basis was traditional in
the bituminous coal mining industry in this country and
universally was the basis for determination of hours
therein for something like half a century. This was contrary to the practice in England and Continental Europe,
where the basis has been to calculate time from entry of
the mine to leaving it or from "portal to portal" or some
modification thereof. The reason American miners accepted this arrangement appears from an official statement
by counsel for the United Mine Workers of America to the
Administrator of this Act that "The uniform high rates
of pay that have always been included in the wage agreement of the mining industry contemplate the employee's
working day beginning when he arrives at his usual working place. Hence, travel time was never considered as a
part of the agreement or obligation of the employer to pay
for in this industry, nor as hours worked by the employees, and this has been the case since the eight-hour day
was established in the industry-April 1, 1898," and "This
method of measuring the working time at the place of work
has been the standard provision in the basic wage agreements for almost fifty years and is the result of collective
bargaining in its complete sense." I
The Court takes refuge in its own decision in Tennessee
Coal Co. v. Muscoda Local, 321 U. S.590, saying "We agree
with the court below that there is no substantial factual
or legal difference betwpen this" case and that. But in the
Tennessee case this Court pointed to facts of very different'
import saying, "Likewise there was substantial, if not
conclusive,. evidente'that prior to 1938 petitioners [operators] recognized no independent labor unions and engaged
in no bona fide collective bargaining with an eye toward
reaching agreements on the workweek. Contracts with
1See

letter of Houck set forth in Note 9.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON, J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

company-dominated unions and discriminatory actions
toward the independent unions are poor substitutes for
'contracts fairly arrived at through the process of collective bargaining.' The wage payments and work on a
tonnage basis, as well as the contract provisions as to the
workweek, were all dictated by petitioners [operators].
The futile efforts by the miners to secure at least partial
compensation for their travel time and their dissatisfaction with existing arrangements, moreover, negative the
conclusion that there was any real custom as to the workweek and compensation therefor." Tennessee Coal Co. v.
Muscoda Local, supra, 601-2.
The Court does not contradict the Union's recognition
that the contracts now disregarded by the Court were
"contracts fairly arrived at through the process of collective bargaining." And that there is this important difference between the present situation and the situation that
was before us in the Tennessee case was recognized by the
counsel in the Tennessee case, the same counsel who
argued this case at our bar. He had no difficulty in finding substantial factual and legal differences when he did
not want the above-described situation in the Tennessee
case to be prejudiced by being likened to this situation.
The District Court quoted as "quite interesting" an excerpt from the argument made in the brief in that case:
"'We are not trying the case of coal miners. We are not
experts on coal mining. We do know that there are two
great differenoes between the coal mining situation, and
the mining of iron ore in Jefferson County. In coal mining we find a union which has been strong and powerful
and which as a union has been engaged, in collective bargaining with the coal operators over a longperiod of years.
In our case we find the efforts of the men to organize their
union presents a pitiable picture of helplessness against
the domination of the mining companies. In coal mining
the men work seven hours per day. At no point in the

JEWELL RIDGE CORP. v. LOCAL.
161

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

voluminous record created by the appellants do -ve find a
single ore mining company offering to pay its men on a
2
seven hour day.' "1

We submit that there are substantial factual differences
between these cases, and we therefore come to the question
whether the presence in these cases of genuine collectively
bargained contracts covering the matter in dispute has
any legal significance. The Court thinks they mean
nothing. We cannot agree.
2. Neither invalidation nor disregard of collectively
bargained agreements is authorized by the Fair Labor
Standards Act. Both its legislative history and contemporaneous legislation are convincing that Congress did
not itself intend to nullify them or to provide any legislative basis for this Court to do so. It is admitted that
the Act contains no express authority for this decision. As
was said in Tennessee Coal Co. v. Muscoda Local: "In
determining whether this underground travel constitutes
compensable work or employment within the meaning of
the Fair Labor Standards Act, we are not guided by any
precise statutory definition of work or employment. Section 7 (a) [29 U. S. C. § 207] merely provides that no one,
who is engaged in commerce or in the production of goods
for commerce, shall be employed for a workweek longer
than the prescribed hours unless compensation ig paid for
the excess hours at a rate not less than one and one-half
2 53 F. Supp. 935, 948.
Similarly interesting arguments were presented to this Court in the brief which was submitted here in the
Tennessee case: "The underground employees are not coal miners.
They mine iron ore. We did not try out in the courts below tli.
claims and counterclaims of the United Mine Workers of America
and the coal operators. We do not see how we can try the issues
between coal miners and coal operators on a record portraying the
work, the environment and the detailed conditions in the iron mining
industry. The judicial process applies to specific cases between

designated parties ....

simple fact."

The case, therefore, hinges on a matter. of

(Respondents' Brief, pp. 28-29.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

times the regular rate. Section 3 (g) [29 U. S. C. § 203
(g)] defines the word 'employ' to include 'to suffer or
permit to work,' while § 3 (j) states that 'production'
includes 'any process or occupation necessary to . . . production.' " I This is every straw that can be picked from
the statute for the Court to grasp at.
Likewise, the Court is unable to cite any item of legislative history which hints that Congress expected these
words to be given this meaning. On the other hand,
we find that pains were taken. to-assure Congress that there
was no such intent.
The bills which ultimately resulted in this Act were
introduced in 1637. As the District Court said, "Although
. . . statements were made at various times while the
measure was being amended and revised, and therefore
not with respect to the Bill in its final form, they show a
continuing intention not to interfere with the processes
Examples are multiple. The
of collective bargaining."'
Senate Committee on Education and Labor in its report
of July 6, 1937, said:
"The right of individual or collective employees to bargain with their employers concerning wages and hours is
recognized and encouraged by this bill. It is not intended
that this law shall invade the right of employer and employee to fix their own contracts of employment, wherever
there can be any real, genuine bargaining between them.
It is only those low-wage and long-working-hour industrial workers, who, are the helpless victims of their own
bargaining weakness, that this bill seeks to assist to obtain
a minimum wage." (Senate Report No. 884, 75th Cong.,
1st Sess., pp. 3-4.)
The debates on the bill appear to us to make this intention more explicit. For example, the Congressional
3321 U. S. 590, 597.
' 53 F. Supp. 935, 944.

JEWELL RIDGE CORP. v. LOCAL.
161

JACKSON, J.,

177-

dissenting.

Record, Vol.. 81, p. 7650, shows that the following took
place in debate in the Senate July 27, 1937:
"Mr. WALSH. Next, does the bill affect collective-bargaining agreements already made or hereafter to be made
between employer and employee?
"Mr. BLACK. It does not."
Of course it was agreed on all hands that no agreement could be validly bargained which provided for less
than the minimum wages to be fixed by the proposed
Board or for more than the specified hours of labor. But
beyond observance of these limitations, we read the legislative history to indicate that the control of wages, hours
and working conditions by collective contract was left
undisturbed.'
5The colloquy follows:
"Mr. WALSH. Next, does the bill affect collective-bargaining agree.ments already made or hereafter to be made between employers and
employees?
"Mr. BLACK. It does not.
"Mr. WALSH. There is one exception to that, is there nou? The bill
does not affect collective-bargaining agreements where the h6urs are
less than 40 per week, or where the wages are more than 40 cents
per hour?
"Mr. BLACk. That is correct.
* "Mr. WALSH. But if a collective-bargaining agreement has been
entered into at 36 cents per hour wages, the board would have jurisdiction to set that agreement aside and to fix, if the facts warrant it,
a minimum wage of 40 cents?
"Mr. BLACK. The board would have jurisdiction to do it, but under
the provisions of the law it would be my judgment that the board
would be very reluctant, indeed, to attempt to interfere with a bonafide agreement made between employer and employee.
"Mr. WALSH. I think the Senator is correct; but the situation might
well exist that the board, in fixing a minimum wage in a case where the
wage of the employees was less than 40 cents, after a survey and study
of the question, and taking into consideration some factors that it
must take into consideration in fixing the wage, might decide, let us
say, upon 38 cents per hour. If it is found that in some other industry

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

Definite assurances to that effect repeatedly given to
the House are noted in the margin.' Nor are these assurances surprising or paradoxical.
of like character and nature there was a collective-bargainng agreement providing for the payment of 36 cents an hour it would, would
it not, take jurisdiction and set aside that collective-bargaining agreement insofar as the facts showed that 38 cents was a fair rate?
81 Cong. Rec. 7650.
"Mr. BLACK. It would."
0 The District Court summarized these as follows:

"Mrs.

NORTON ....

It is not the intention of this amendment, or

of the bill, to start fixing wages in all industries but only in those in
which oppressive wages are being paid to a substantial portion of
workers . . ." (House, December 13, 1937, Congressional Record,
Vol. 82, p. 1391.)
"Mr. RANDOLPH. . . . It [the bill] is not concerned with that fortunate majority of the laboring classes whose collective bargaining
power is sufficiently potent to insure the preservation of their industrial rights.
"But it is concerned with those millions in industry who are un"
(House, December 13, 1937, Conprotected and unorganized ...
gressional Record, Vol. 82, p. 1395.)
"Mi.
C-URLEY. . . .
There is no conflict of jurisdiction, under the
provisions of this fair standards of labor bill, and the existing labor
organizations of this coulitry. The bill concerns only of relieving the
paralysis which, at present, shackles misery and poverty to millions of
heads of families, who are underpaid and causing a colossal financial
loss in purchasing power because of existing deplorable conditions."
(House, May 23, 1938, Congressional Record, Vol. 83, p. 7283.)

"Mr.

BOILEAU. . . .

What is more, we are preserving for organ-

ized labor its right to bargain collectively, and it will bargain for a
higher wage than that." (House, May 23, 1938, Congressional
Record, Vol. 83, p. 7290.)
"Mr. ALLEN. . . . This bill has a threefold purpose as I see it.
First, it eliminates sweat shops- . . . The bill does not affect organized labor, but those 5,000,000 American working men and women
who have not yet been benefited by organized labor." (House, May
23, 1938, Congressional Record, Vol. 83, p. 72,91.)
I would have you observe that this pro"Mr. FITZGERALD ....
posed legislation will not improve the wages and hours of the majority
of workers, nor does it attemp + to. For I am greatly pleased to say
that the majority of workers do not need this legislation because they

JEWELL RIDGE CORP. v. LOCAL.
161

JACKSON, J., dissenting.

3. Congress refrained from enacting authority for this
result at the request of the United Mine Workers,
expressed in the testimony of their responsible representatives, whose plan for regulating the coal industry was
enacted in the Guffey Coal Act. In 1937, bills which ultimately resulted in the Fair Labor Standards Act .were
introduced in both houses of Congress and hearings were
held. Major Percy Tetlow, an official of the International
Union, United Mine Workers of America, as a witness in
this case, summarized the attitude of the mine workers
as follows:
"No, the Miners' organization has always taken the
position that the question of wages, hours and conditions
of employment should be governed and controlled by
agreements under collective bargaining in the industry
more so than by legislation. We have always taken the
position that any legislation which will improve standards
of working men and women,-to favor it and foster it and
support it. Fundamentally, we are opposed to legislation
that controls the daily wage and conditions of employment. We think that is a relationship that should exist
between employer and employee." This is in accord with
the testimony of Mr. John L. Lewis, President of the
United Mine Workers of America, before the congressional
committees, when he said:
"For instance, frankly I would not want this bill to
conveyopower to a board to order an investigation into all
of the wage agreements in the mining industry right now,
or to give the board power to decide that the collectivebargaining agreements in the mining industry were not
sound, not proper, were confiscatory, or not in harmony
with the facts of the industry, and order a modification
thereof. I think the power of the board should be limited
are receiving a living wage and are not forced to work unreasonable
hours." (House, May 23, 1938, Congrcssional R ccord, Vol. 83,

p. 7310.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

to cases which run below the level of the standards fixed
by Congress. I see endless confusion in the adoption of
section 5 now. I see a drift toward the complete fixation
of wages in all industry by governmental action." "
Far from interfering with employer-employee agreements by this Act, the United Mine Workers advocated
and Congress enacted contemporaneous specific legislation to confirm them in the coal industry. The same Congress which enacted the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938
enacted the second Bituminous Coal Act of 1937, (50 Stat.
72, Chap. 127, 15 U. S. C. § 828), which states that
"(a) . . . It is hereby declared to be the public policy
of the United States tha,(1) Employees of producers of coal shall have-the right
to organize and to bargain collectively with respect to their
hours of labor, wages, and working conditions through
representatives of their own choosing, without restraint,
coercion, or interference on the part of the producers."
15 U. S. C. § 839.
It is impossible to believe that Congress in April of 1937
wrote such a specific declaration in favor of collective bargaining and a short time later by general phrases of the
Fair Labor Standards Act intended to invalidate or. disregard collective bargaining.
It may safely be said that over the past half century
Congress has given more detailed and specific consideration to the bituminous coal mining industry than to any
other single industry with the possible exception of transportation. The efforts of Congress, the travail of mine
labor, and the difficulties of operators are recited in this
case and in extensive briefs by the Government and parties
interested in the coal mine litigations that have been considered here. Cf. Appalachian Coals v. United States, 288
7 Joint Hearings before the Committee on Education and Labor,
United States Senate and the Committee on Labor, House of Representatives, June 2-22, 1937 (75th Cong., 1st Sess.) p. 281.

JEWELL RIDGE CORP. v. LOCAL.
161

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

U. S. 344; Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238; Sunshine Anthracite Co. v. Adkins, 310 U. S. 381. In the
twentyr;three years between 1913 and 1935 when the first
Bituminous Coal Conservation Act was passed there were
no less than nineteen investigations and hearings by congressional committees or specially created commissions
with respect to conditions in this industry which were of
grave national concern. These investigations had dealt
with bitterly contested strikes, and with serious disorders
which frequently resulted in bloodshed and martial law,
and which on at least four occasions were restrained by
intervention of federal troops. Other investigations were
concerned with coal shortages and high prices and with
the demoralization of the industry.. The plight of this
industry at that time was graphically summarized by Mr.
Justice Douglas in Sunshine Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310 U. S;
381, for an all but unanimous Court: "For a generation
there have been various manifestations of incessant. demand for federal intervention in the coal industry. The
investigations preceding the 1935 and 1937 Acts are replete with an exposition of the conditions which have beset
that industry. Official and private records give eloquent
testimony to the statements of Mr. Justice Cardozo in the
Carter case (p. 330) that free competition had been 'degraded into anarchy' in the bituminous coal industry.
Overproduction and savage, competitive warfare wasted
the industry. Labor and capital alike were the victims.
Financial distress among operators and acute poverty
among miners prevailed even during periods of general
prosperity. This history of the bituminous coal industry
is written in blood as well as in ink.
"It was the judgment of Congress that price-fixing and
the elimination of unfair competitive practices were appropriate methods for prevention of the financial ruin,
low wages, poor working conditions, strikes, and disruption of the channels of trade which followed in the wake

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

of the demoralized price structures in this industry. If
the strategic character of this industry in our economy and
the chaotic conditions which have prevailed in it do not
justify legislation, it is difficult to imagine what would."8
It was'against this economic background so well known
to Congress that the plan for stabilization of the bituminous coal industry, through elimination of "competitive
warfare" was adopted in the interests both of labor and
the operators. In the light of the sustained attention
Congress had given to the delicate economy of the coal
industry and its plan to stabilize it by collective bargaining
and price-fixing, it is unbelievable that it would undo a
substantial part of that plan by the casual and ambiguous
implication which the Court now attributes to the Fair
Labor Standards Act.
4. The decision of the Court is contrary to the interpretations of the Act made by its Administratoron the recommendation of the United Mine Workers, and-it denies to
the Administrator's rulings the respect we have been
compelling lower courts to render to such administrative
rulings in the cases of others. It was not until 1940 that
anyone appears to have thought the Act affected the coal
miners' agreements. In the year 1940, an investigator
of the Wage and Hour Administration, investigating
operations of a coal mining company in Pennsylvania,
raised the question whether underground travel time must
be included in the workweek under the terms of the Act.
He stated his opinion that the "faqe to face" basis, excluding travel time, was the proper one to be applied in the
coal-mining industry, but indicated that if a rule theretofore applied in the case of a gold mining company were
required the coal company would owe some $70,000 to
underground workers. This was brought to the attention
of the President of the Central Pennsylvania Coal Pro8 310 U. S. 395.

JEWELL RIDGE CORP. v. LOCAL.
161

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

ducers Association, and he in turn brought it to the attention of other operators and of Mr. Lewis, President of the
International Union, United Mine Workers of America.
Thereafter representatives of both the operators and the
United Mine Workers conferred from time to time with
the representatives of the Wage and Hour Administration.
Both the operators and the Union officials opposed any
construction of the Act which would require payment for
travel time. On July 9, 1940, representatives of the operators and Mr. Earl Houck, director of the legal department of the United Mine Workers of America, jointly
composed and sent to the Administrator of the Wage and
Hour Division a letter setting out their views on the subject." They urged that such a change "would create so
9 The letter appears in the opinion of the district court:
1617 PENNSYLVANIA BOULEVARD,
Philadelphia,Pennsylvania, July 9, 1940.
Col. PHILIP B. FLEMING,

Administrator, Wage and Hour Division,
Department of Labor, Washington, D. C.
DEAR MR. ADMINxsrATOR: As a result of certain investigations
which have been conducted by the Wage & Hour Division at bituminous coal mines in Pennsylvania, particularly at the Revloc shaft
of the Monroe Coal Mining Company, and a conference that has been
held by your Supervising Inspector, Mr. Caffey, at Pittsburgh, Pa, with
a committee of the Western Pennsylvania Coal Operators' Association, concerning the application of the Fair Labor Standards Act to
the bituminous coal mining industry, certain questions have arisen
that are disturbing to both employers and employees within the industry. These uncertainties have been continuing for some time and
are causing much concern to the mine workers and the mine operators,
especially with reference to "travel time."
Today, the Negotiating Committee of the Appalachian Wage Conference, namely: MA'essrs. J. D. A. Morrow, President of Pittsburgh
Coal Company; L. T. Putnam of the Raleigh Wyoming Mining Company, Beckley, W. Va.; L. C. Gunter, of the Southern Appalachian Coal
Operators' Association, Knoxville, Tenn.; Charles O'Neill, President of
the United Eastern Coal Sales Corporation, New York City; C. E.
Cowan, Vice President of Monroe C6al Mining Company; Frederick

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

much confusion in the bituminous industry as to result
in complete chaos, and would probably result in a complete stoppage of work at practically all of the coal mines
H. Knight, counsel for Monroe Coal Mining Company; W. L. Robison, President of the Youghiogheny & Ohio Coal Company and Chairman of the Appalachian Wage Conference, on the one hand, and Mr.
Earl E. Houck, Director of the Legal Department of the United Mine
Workers of America, met with Mr. Dorsey, Regional Director, Philadelphia, Pa., and Mr. Gallagher, Regional Counsel, Philadelphia, Pa.,
at which time these questions were discussed at length, particularly
the application of the Act as to the question of hours of work in the
bituminous coal industry.
The mine workers and the mine operators present presented their
views to representatives of the Wage and Hour Division as to the provisi6ns of the Appalachian Wage Agreement covering maximum hours
and working time. We have filed with the Division copy of the Appalachian Wage Agreement, and the entire provision as to maximum
hours and working time is included therein. The pertinent language,
however, is "Seven hours of labor shall constitute a day's work. The
seven-hour day means seven hours' work in the mines at the usual
working places for all classes of labor, exclusive of the lunch period,
whether they be paid by the day or be paid on the tonnage basis ..."
The Appalachian Wage Agreement is the basic agreement for the
bituminous mines in the States of Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia,
Virginia, Eastern Kentucky, Southeastern Tennessee and Maryland.
In this territory there are several thousand rail shipping mines employing from 300,000 to 325,000 men, and some twenty-three operating
districts. Each of the districts work out a local wage agreement covering its own territory, subject, however, to the provision that it must
include within it all of the provisions of the Appalachian Agreement.
The mines in the Appalachian region produce 70% of the total bituminous coal produced in the United States annually. Also, the
Appalachian Agreement is used by the United Mine Workers of
America as the basic agreement upon which the district agreements
of the remaining 30% of the country is predicated.
The United Mine Workers of America and coal operators of the
United States have been negotiating wage agreements for a period of
fifty years.. The Appalachian Agreement, covering as it does a great
number of men and mines, has been worked out over that period of
time and covers within its general provisions myriad wage, rates, conditions of work, and hours of employment. This agreement, with its

JEWELL RIDGE CORP. v. LOCAL.
161

JACKSON,

185

J., dissenting.

in the United States. Such a ruling, moreover, would
establish such diversity of time actually spent at productive work as between different bituminous coal mines and
twenty-three supplemental agreements, constitutes a whole document.
In those conferences, of course, hours of work has been one of the
principal matters of consideration during this period of time. Hours
of work with wage rates constitute the heart of any such agreement.
In this basic industry we have provided for seven-hour days, five-day
weeks, thirty-five hours per week, with high rates of pay. The basic
inside day rate in the North is S.857 per hour, and in the south it is
$.80 per hour. The underground workers are paid on this basis with
maximum rates for mobile loading machine operators, approximately
$1.09 per hour. In addition, the agreement provides, "work by mine
workers paid by hour or day in excess of seven hours in one day, or
thirty-five hours in any one week, shall be paid for it at the rate of
*time and one-half . . ." It is our opinion that these substantive provisions of the agreement are among the highest standards of labor
provided -.in any industry in the United States, both as to hours of
working time and as to wages paid. There is full and complete understanding in the industry between employer and employees as to the
application of these provisions. This method of measuring the working time at the place of work has been the standard provision in the
basic wage agreements for almost fifty years and is the result of
collective bargaining in its complete sense.
There are many reasons why the provision as to working time has
been set out as provided by this agreement. The impracticability of
measuring time by any other method is inherent in the very nature of
mining coal. Coal mines are sometimes very extensive. When they
are first opened up, the working places are, of course, close by and near
to the opening of the mine. In such cases there is no problem of either
transportation of the men, to the working places or time consumed
in reaching them; but as mines grow older, the working places move
farther and farther away from the portal or opening of the mine,
and as such conditions develop, it becomes necessary for provision
to be made for transportation of the men over long distances to their
working places. This is usually provided by what is known in the
industry as "man trips." These trips are scheduled to leave the outside or opening of the mine at a'certain hour, so that.all the employees
will reach their working places by the hour at which work regularly
begins at the working places throughout the mine, and these trips are
also scheduled to leave the inside of the mine when the day's work

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

within each mine that there would be no basis on which
any general wage scales could be predicated, collective bargaining would therefore be rendered impossible throughis done, at the conclusion of the seven-hour period of work at the
working places. Among other provisions of the agreement, there is
provided a time for starting the day's work and a lunch period, as well
as a time for expiration of the work day. There is some variation in
this, depending upon local conditions as to the starting and quitting
time at the various collieries. The agreement provides for a certain
tolerance. In any event, the starting and quitting time are no more
than seven hours apart, exclusive of the lunch period.
In the many conferences that have been held over this period of
fifty years, naturally all manner of suggestions and proposals for
amplification or amendment of the agreement has been made both by
the mine workers and the operators.
The uniform high rates of pay that have always been included in
the wage agreement of the mining industry contemplate the employee's working day beginning when he arrives at his usual working
place. Hence, travel time was never considered as a part of the
agreement or obligation of the employer to pay for in this industry,
nor as hours worked by the employees, and this has been the case
since the eight-hour day was established in the industry-April 1,
1898.
It is urged that any ruling requiring such a change in the custom,
tradition and contract provision so as to change the work day
from "seven hours' work in the mines at the usual working places"
to any new standard for the measurement of time worked, and to the
adjustment of wage rates made necessary thereby, would create so
much confusion in the bituminous industry as to result in complete
chaos, and would probably result in a complete stoppage of work
at practically all of the coal. mines in the United States. Such a
ruling, moreover, would establish such diversity of time actually
spent at productive work as between different bituminous coal-mines
and within each mine that there would be no basis on which any
general wage scales could be predicated, collective bargaining would
therefore be rendered impossible throughout this industry, and the
very purpose of the Fair Labor Standards Act would be defeated
In such an event, it would make necessary the reassembling of the
Appalachian Joint Wage Conference and it would be faced with an
issue that would be almost impossible of solution by agreement, resulting in an industrial conflict that could paralyze the nation. This

JEWELL RIDGE 1CORP. v. LOCAL.
161

JAdKSON,

187

J., dissenting.

out this industry, and the very purpose of the Fair Labor
Standards Act would be defeated." In response to the
joint representations and recommendation of both operwould be a most unhappy result to flow from an act that was passed
by the Congress to aid workers in industries that had unreasonably
long hours and unreasonably low rates of pay, as contrasted with the
short hours and the high rates of pay in the bituminous coal mines.
The great amount of money involved in the case of extra payment
by the operators or the great changes that would be required in the
rates of pay to the miners, should any change in the present contract
be necessary by reason of a new standard for the measurement of
time worked, is so serious that a negotiated adjustment would seem
to be impossible.
For the foregoing reasons, we believe that your Division should
accept the standards of wages and hours of work, and the definition
of working time, as set forth in the Appalachian Agreement (which
embodies the custom and traditions of the bituminous mining industry), as complying both with the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and of Interpretive Bulletin No. 13, to the effect that
"reasonable standards agreed upon between the employer and the
employee will be accepted for the purposes of the Act."
We therefore respectfully request that your Division issue a supplement to interpretive Bulletin No. 13, stating that the standard
of wages and hours of work, and definition of working time, set forth
in the Appalachian Agreement, entered into on May 12, 1940, between
twenty-three district associations of bituminous coal operators comprising the Appalachian coal producing area and the International
Union, United Mine Workers of -America, and the several district
agreements based thereon, conform to and satisfy the requirements
of the Wage & Hour Act.
Respectfully submitted.
For the United Mine Workers of America:

[S]

EARL

E.

HOUCK,

LDirector of the Legal Department.
For the Operators:
[S]

W. L. RonlsON, Chairman,

[S]

CHARLES O'NEILL,

[S]
[S]
[S]
Appalachian Joint

L. T. PUTNAM,
L. C. GUNTER,
J. D. A. MORROW,
Conference Negotiating Committee.

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON,

J., disscnting.

325 U. S.

ators and the United Mine Workers, the Administrator.
July 18, 1940, ruled that "working time on a 'face to
face' basis in the bituminous coal mining industry would
not be unreasonable." 1 'We have admonished lower
courts that they must give heed to these interpretations.
Armour & Co. v. Wantock, 323 U. S. 126; Skidmore v.
Swift & Co., 323 U. S. 134. The District Court in this
case did so, only to find them brushed aside here as of no
importance.
5. This decision necessarily invalidates the basis on
which the Government in operating the mines contracted
with the miners and brings into question the validity of
all the existing mine agreements. It appears to have been
wartime restrictions on flat wage increases which finally
led the United Mine Workers to reverse their former and
to take their present position. It was not until the wage
conference of 1943 that the United Mine Workers for the
first time demanded that "To conform with the basic and
legal requirement for the industry, the maximum hours
and working time provisions be amended to establish
portal to portal for starting and quitting time for all
underground workers." "' But this condition was to be
satisfied by a flat wage increase for all mine workers,
whether or not they spent any time traveling underground,
and was not to be based on each individual worker's actual
travel time, as the Court now holds the Act requires. The
evolution of the Union's present demands is traceable
through the sequence of events.
This March 1943 Wage Conference fell into dispute.
The case was certified on April 22, 1943 to the National
War Labor Board. The parties agreed after request by
President Roosevelt to extend the 1941 agreement to
May 1. The National War Labor Board on April 24, 1943
directed them, pending decision, to continue work under
10 3 Wage and Hour Rep. 332, 333.
11

53 F. Supp. 941.

JEWELL RIDGE CORP. v. LOCAL.
161

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

the previous terms. When May 1st came around, however, the miners went on strike, the Government seized
the mines, and the strike came to an end May 6, under a
temporary arrangement extending the old contract to
May 31. On May 14, the Board directed the Wage Conference to resume negotiations. This reconvened and
negotiations continued until June 20. However, when
the extension agreement expired on May 31, a second
strike began. On Jurte 3, President Roosevelt appealed to
the miners to return to work, and they did so after the
President of the Mine Workers ordered them to resume
until June 20. On that day there was a third strike, which
lasted three days, when it was terminated on appeal by
President Roosevelt, the Union again directing the miners
to resume work until October 31. The conferences did
not agree and the controversy went again to the National
War Labor Board.
The Board found as follows: "The Mine Workers' demand of $2.00 a day was . . .based upon an assumption
or estimate that the travel time amounted on the average
to an hour and -one-half a day. . . . The United Mine
Workers proposed, to spread this amount over all the
workers including those who did not go underground, and
so arrived at the proposed general wage increase of $2.00
for all mine workers. . . . It is obvious that these figures are out of all proportion to any amount that could
possibly be due to the mine workers under the Fair Labor
Standards Act, even if the courts should decide all questions in controversy in favor of the mine workers. The
demand is plainly and unmistakably a demand for an 'indirect wage increase in violation of the wage stabilization
policies,' contrary to the Board's directive order of May
25, 1943." 12 And in a release on June 18, 1943, the Board
said: ". . . The United Mine Workers have not proposed to change the 'face to face' basis of payment. On
12 9

War Lab. Rep. 118.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

the contrary they have proposed merely to increase the
hourly rate under the present contract system. . . . It
would not be in fact payment to the mine workers for
portal to portal. It is merely a general wage increase supported by the argument that the mine workers . . . think
they ought to have a general wage increase because on the
average they will spend a certain amount of time in
travel."
Finding itself thus frustrated in its demand for a flat
wage increase, the Union then negotiated with the Illinois
Coal Operators' Association an agreement which provided
for a $1.25 increase for each working. day. The National
War Labor Board refused to approve this as also violative
of the national wage stabilization program. It was then,
and apparently because it afforded the only means of obtaining an increase that did not conflict with the wage
stabilization program, that the Mine Workers negotiated
the second Illinois Agreement, dated September 23, 1943,
of which the National War Labor Board said: "The
Illinois Agreement now submitted to the Board presents
for the first time a true portal-to-portal method of compensation for the mine workers. The 1941-1943 contract
provides for a seven-hour day and 35-hour week of productive time at the working face, excluding travel time.
. . . The Illinois Agreement proposes to substitute for
this method of compensation an 8 /,-hour day inclusive
of travel time, with payment at straight time rates for
the 81/ hours and overtime payment at rate and one-half
for all time beyond 40 hours a week." 13 The Board found
that the effect of this was an increase which it could not
wholly approve.
Meantime the Government had taken over the mines
and on November 3, 1943, the Ickes-Lewis agreement was
made. The method of wage calculation under the IckesLewis agreement was to. treat each employee as having
18 1lWar Lab:.Rep.,687.

JEWELL RIDGE CORP. v. LOCAL.
161

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

forty-five minutes of travel time, irrespective of his actual
travel time. The War Labor Board on November 5, 1943
approved the Ickes-Lewis agreement, and thus in effect
granted a flat wage increase, uniform for all miners irrespective of their individual actual travel time.
The testimony in this case closed on November 24, 1943
with the mines still in the hands of the Government. The
Government's policy, however, was not to return the mines
until an operating agreement could be reached and approved by the miners and the operators. The operators
by collective bargaining reached agreements which followed the provisions of the Ickes-Lewis agreement, the
mines were returned, and this uniform method continues
in use as a result of collective bargaining.
It is important to observe that, while there has thus
been introduced a change in the method of computing
working time, it by no means complies with and did not
purport to be adopted because of the requirements of the
Fair Labor Standards Act as now interpreted by this
Court. If it is illegal for the operators and the minerA by
collective bargaining to agree that there shall be no travel
time, it is obviously equally illegal to agree that the travel
time shall be fixed at an arbitrary figure which does not
conform to the facts. That the assumption of forty-five
minutes of travel is an unfounded one is evident from
the record in this case, which indicates that the average
daily travel time in one of the petitioner's mines is eightyeight minutes; and in the other, 67.1 minutes. If United
Mine Workers' agreements are. ineffective to make all of
this time non-working time, how can they be effective to
make half of it non-working time? Moreover, the averaging means that a part of the travel time earned by one
miner is taken away from him and given to another who
has earned less thdn the average, a procedure utterly unwarranted in the' statute, if the statute applies at all. If
the Fair Labor Standards Act entitles each individual

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

miner to travel time, not according to the terms of his
collectively bargained agreements, but according to the
time actually spent, as the Court now holds, these Government agreements violated that law, the present agreements do also, and heavy liabilities both for overtime and
penalties are daily being incurred by the entire industry.
6. This decision proceeds on a principle denied to unorganized workmen for whose benefit the Act was passed.
The ink is hardly dry on this Court's pronouncement, in
which all of the majority in this case joined, that: "The
legislative debates indicate that the prime purpose of the
legislation was to aid the unprotected, unorganized and
lowest paid .of the nation's working population; that is,
those employees who lacked sufficient bargaining power
to secure for themselves a minimum subsistence wage."
Booklyn Savings Bank v. O'Neil, 324 U. S. 697, 707, n. 18.
That coat ill fits the United Mine Workers. But let us
contrast the advantage which this decision extends to a
powerful group so plainly outside of the policy of the
Act with the treatment of groups that, being unprotected
and unorganized, were clearly within it.
Little more than six months ago this Court unanimously
remanded to the lower courts for trial and findings on
the facts a case involving night waiting time of seven
unorganized firemen. It said that "We have not attempted to, and we cannot, lay down a legal formula to
resolve cases so varied in their facts as are the many situations in which employment involves waiting time.
Whether in a concrete case such time falls within or vWithout the Act is a question of fact to be resolved-by appropriate findings of the trial court. .... This involves
scrutiny and construction of the agreements between the
particular parties, appraisal of their practical construction of the working agreement by conduct, consideration
of the nature of the service, and its relation to the waiting
time, and all of the surrounding circumstances. . . . The

JEWELL RIDGE CORP. v.. LOCAL.
161

JACKSON, J., dissenting.

law does not impose an arrangement upon the parties.
It imposes upon the courts the task of finding what the
arrangement was." Skidmore v. Swift & Co., 323 U. S.
134, 136-37. That was in keeping with other holdings.
Cf. Armour & Co. v. Wantock, 323 U. S. 126, 132-3.
Now comes this case involving the organized miners,
we are not concerned here
and the Court holds that "...
with the use of bona fide contracts or customs to settle
difficult and doubtful questions as to whether certain activity or nonactivity constitutes work." It is held in this
case that the time must be counted "regardless of any custom or contract to the contrary at the time in question.."
Can it be that this sudden refusal to weigh the facts is
because as found by the District Court on almost undisputed evidence thby are so decisively against the conclusion the Court is reaching? Jewell Ridge Coal Corp. v.
Local No. 6167, United Mine Workers, 53 F. Supp. 935.
This was made plain also by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which said:
"In view of the long established custom in the coal
industry not to include travel time in the work week,
the collective bargaining contracts extending over a long
period recognizing the 'face to face' basis of pay, the testimony before the committees of Congress, the reason and
purpose of the Fair Labor Standards Act . . . and the
probable effects and consequences of construing the act
to require travel time in bituminous coal mines to be included in the work week, there is strong reason for thinking, as everyone connected with the matter seems to have.
thought until recently, that it was not the intent of Con-'
gress that the act should be so construed in its application
to the coal mining industry. The reasons in support of
this conclusion are fully and ably set forth in the opinion
of the learned judge below and need not be repeated.
They would be convincing, were it not for the decision of
the Supreme Court in Tennessee Coal, Iron & R. Co. v.

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

Muscoda Local No. 123, etc., 321 U. S. 590, 64 S. Ct. 698,
703, which We do not think can be distinguished in principle from the case at bar." And it added, "Under the
circumstances, there is nothing for us to do but reverse
the decislon below. If it is thought that the decision of
the Supreme Court should be overruled or limited so as
not to apply to a case of this' caracter, that isa friatter
for the'Supreme Court and not for us." Local No: 6167,
United Mine Workers v. Jewell Ridge Coal 'Corp., 145
F. 2d 10, 11, 13.
.The Court now says Tennessee Coal Co. v. Muscoda is
a precedent which controls this case and "that there is no
substantial factual or legal difference between this and the
Tennessee Coal case." That can be said only because the
Court declines to look at the record of factual differences,
casts them out as being immaterial. The fact is that the
Tennessee case differed from this as night does from day.
Two courts below had decided the vital facts in that case
in the miners' favor. One court below has found the facts
in' this case against them, and the other agrees that its
findings are convincing. The Court now declines to appraise the factual difference of this case and holds that
this case was decided, although not before us, by the Tennessee case opinion, regardless of any variation of facts.
This, too, although we have unanimously replied to one
litigant who sought the benefit of statements therein that
"The context of the language cited from the Tennessee
Coal case should be sufficient to indicate that the quoted
phrases were not intended as a limitation on the Act, and
have no necessary application to other states of facts."
Armour & Co. v. Wantock, 323 U. S. 126, 133. We ought
not to play fast and loose with the basic implications of
this Act.
The "face to face" method, whatever its other defects, is'
a method by which both operators and miners have tried
to bring about uniformity of labor costs in the different

JEWELL RIDGE CORP. v. LOCAL.
161

JACKSON,

195

J., dissenting.

unionized mines and to remove the operator's resistance
to improved wage scales based on fear of competition.
Under this decision there can be no uniform wage in this
industry except by disregarding the very duty which this
decision creates to pay each miner for his actual travel
time. Thus, two men working shoulder to shoulder, but
entering the mine at different portals must receive either
different amounts of pay in their envelopes or must stay
at their productive work a different length of time. Thus,
too, old mines which have burrowed far from their portals must shoulder greatly increased labor cost per ton.
The differential may be sufficient to make successful operation of some of the older mines impossible. Mining
labor has tended to locate its dwellings near its work, and
the closing of mines results in corresponding dislocations
of mining labor. These are the considerations, so fully
set forth in the Houck letter to the Administrator, which
the Court is disregarding.
We can not shut our eyes to the consequence of this
decision which is to impair for all organized labor the credit
of collective bargaining, the only means left by which
there could be a reliable settlement of marginal questions
concerning hours of work or compensation. We have
just held that the individual workman is deprived of
power to settle such questions. Brooklyn Savings Bank
v. O'Neil; Dize v. Maddrix, 324 U. S. 697. Now we hold

collective bargaining incompetent to do so. It is hard to
see how the long-range interests of labor itself are advanced by a holding that there is no mode by which it
may bind itself to any specified future conduct, however
fairly bargained. A genuinely collectively bargained
agreement as to wages, hours or working conditions is
not invalidated or superseded by this Act and both employer and employee should be able to make and, rely
upon them, and the courts in deciding such cases should
honor them.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

325 U. S.

We doubt if one can find in the long line of criticized
cases one in which the Court has made a more extreme
exertion of power or one so little supported or explained
by either the statute or the record in the case. Power
should answer to reason none the less because its fiat is
beyond appeal.
UNITED STATES ALKALI EXPORT ASSOCIATION, INC. ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
NO. 1016.
CERTIORARI TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE
UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW
YORK.*

Argued May 1, 2, 1945.-Decided May 21, 1945.
1. An order of a district court in a suit brought by the United States
under § 4 of the Sherman Act against export associations and
members thereof to restrain violations of the Act, denying a motion
of .the defendants to dismiss, made on the ground that, under §§ 1, 2
and 5 of the Webb-Pomerene Act, exclusive jurisdiction of the
matters charged in the complaint is vested in the first instance in
the Federal Trade Commission, held reviewable here by certiorari
under § 262 of the Judicial Code. P. 201.
(a) Where the proceeding is one in respect of which this Court
has exclusive appellate jurisdiction, an application for a common
law writ in aid of appellate jurisdiction must be to this Court.
P. 202.
(b) The hardship which would be imposed on the defendants
by a long postponed appellate review, coupled with the attendant
infringement of the asserted Congressional policy of conferring
primary jurisdiction on the Commission, together support the appeal to the discretion of this Court to exercise its power to review
the ruling of the district court in advance of final judgment. P. 204.
2. Exercise of the powers conferred on the Federal Trade Commission by § 5 of the Webb-Pomerene Act--to investigate activities
of any export association which are believed to be in violation of
the Sherman Act; if violations are found, to make recommendations
*Together with No. 1017, California Alkali Export Association
et al. v. United States, also on certiorari to the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York.

