TRUST OF BINGHAM v. COMM'R.
357

Syllabus.

rates unreasonable and unlawful as it did, and thereafter
to prescribe the lawful rate to be charged for the interstate
trip. This did not, as argued, constitute a regulation of
intrastate commerce.
Other contentions urged by the carriers have been considered, but need not be discussed, since we are satisfied
with the disposition made of them by the Interstate Commerce Commission. Finding no error in the order of the
Commission, the judgment of the district court declining
to enforce it is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS is of the

opinion that the Com-

mission had no jurisdiction of the fares in question, for the
reasons set forth in the opinions below, 55 F. Supp. 51, and
56 F. Supp. 670. MR. JUSTICE REED and MR. JUSTICE
DOUGLAS dissent from part Second of the opinion.

TRUST UNDER THE WILL OF BINGHAM ET AL. V.
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 932.

Argued April 27, 1945.-Decided June 4, 1945.

1. The questions whether, on the facts found by the Tax Court, ex-

penses incurred by trustees in contesting an income tax deficiency
assessment and in winding up the trust after its expiration are
deductible under § 23 (a) (2) of the Internal Revenue Code as expenses for the "management .

.

. of property held for the 'pro-

duction of income," are clear-cut questions of law, the dedision
of which by 'the Tax Court does not foreclose their decision by
the Circuit Court of Appeals or this Court, although their decision
by the Tax Court is entitled to great weight. P. 371.
2. There was mo error of law in the Tax Court's determination, upon
the facts found, that expenses incurred by trustees in contesting an
income tax deficiency assessment and in winding up the trust after
its expiration were deductible under § 23 (a) (2) of the Internal

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Statement of the Case.

325 U. S.

Revenue Code as expenses for the "management... of property
held for the production of income"; and reversal by the Circuit
Court of Appeals on the ground that such expenses were not "for
the production of income" and not for the management of "property held for the production of income" within the meaning of that
section was unwarranted. Pp. 373, 376.
3. The trust properties did not cease to be "held for the production
of income" even though, as the trust term reached its expiry date,
the trustees were under a duty to distribute the property among
the remaindermen. .P. 373.
4. Section 23 (a) (2) is comparable and in pari materia with
§ 23 (a) (1), authorizing the deduction of business or trade expenses.
P. 373.
5. The costs of distribution of the corpus of the trust were expenses
of a function of "management" of the trust property quite as much
as were expenses incurred in producing the trust income. P. 375.
6. References in the House Committee Report accompanying the bill
which became the Revenue Act of 1942, and in Treasury Regulations
103, § 19.23 (a)-15, to the non-deductibility of administrators' and
executors' expenses, incurred in the administration of the estate
of the decedent, including those of distributing assets to the
beneficiaries, do not require by analogy that the trustees' distribution expenses here in question be deemed non-deductible. P. 375.
7. Section 23 (a) (2) does not restrict deductions to those litigation
expenses which alone produce income; on the contrary, by its terms
and in analogy with the rule under § 23 (a) (1), the trust may
deduct litigation expenses when they are directly connected with or
proximately result from the enterprise-the management of property held for production of income. Kornhauser v. United States,
276 U. S. 145. P. 376.
8. To the extent that Treasury Regulations 103, § 19.23 (a)-15 purports to deny deduction of litigation expense unless it is to produce
income, and to the extent that it departs from the rule of Kornhauser v. United States, it conflicts with the meaning and purpose
of § 23 (a) (2) and is unauthorized. P. 377.
145 F. 2d 568, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 324 U. S. 835, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Tax Court, 2 T. C. 853, which set aside the
Commissioner's determination of a deficiency in income
tax.

TRUST OF BINGHAM v. COMM'R.
365

Opinion of the Co'jrt.

Mr. Arthur A. Ballantine, with whom Mr. George E.
Cleary was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Ralph F. Fuchs, with whom Assistant Solicitor General Cox, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark,
Jr., Messrs. Sewall Key, J. Louis Monarch and L. W. Post
were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioners are the trustees of a testamentary trust
created for a term of twenty-one years under the will of
Mary Lily (Flagler) Bingham. The testatrix bequeathed
to the trustees the residue of her estate, including a large
number of securities. The trustees were empoweoed in
their discretion to sell any of the property held in trust
(except certain securities of two companies designated as
the "principal properties"), to invest and reinvest the
proceeds and the income from the trust fund, and to use
the proceeds and the income for the benefit of the principal properties and for the "maintenance, administration
or development of the said principal or subsidiary properties." The trustees were to pay specified amounts annually to certain legatees. When the niece of the testatrix
reached a certain age, she was to receive from the trust a
specified amount in cash or securities. At the end of
twenty-one years, the trustees were directed to pay other
legacies, and to distribute the remainder of the fund in
equal parts to a brother and two sisters of the testatrix.
In 1935 petitioners paid the bequest to the niece partly
in securities. The Commissioner assessed a deficiency of
over $365,000 for income tax upon the appreciation in
value of the securities while they were in petitioners'
hands. In contesting unsuccessfully this deficiency, petitioners paid out in the year 1940 approximately $16,000
in counsel fees and expenses. In that year, also, petitioners paid out about $9,000 for legal advice in connec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

tion with the payment of one of the cash legacies, and in
connection with tax and other problems arising upon the
expiration of the trust and relating to the final distribution
of the trust fund among the three residuary legatees.
The question is whether these legal expenses, paid in
1940, are deductible from gross income in the computation of the trust's income tax, as "non-trade" or "nonbusiness" expenses within the meaning of § 23 (a) (2) of
the Internal Revenue Code. That section, added by
-§ 121 of the Revenue Act of 1942, and made applicable to
tax years "beginning after December 31, 1938," authorizes the deduction of "all the ordinary and necessary
expenses paid or incurred during the taxable year for the
production or collection of income, or for the management,
conservation, or maintenance of property held for the
production of income." Section 162 of the Code, so far
as now relevant, makes § 23 (a) (2) applicable to the
income taxation of trusts.
Petitioners, in their income tax return for 1940, took
deductions for the legal expenses. The Commissioner
disallowed the deductions and assessed a tax deficiency,
and petitioners filed the present suit in the Tax Court to
set aside the assessment. That Court, after finding the
facts as we have stated them, found that the trust property was held for the production ofIncome; that all the
items in question were ordinary and necessary expenses
of the management of the trust property; and that the
fees and expenses for contesting the income tax deficiency
assessment were also for the conservation of the trust
property. It therefort concluded that all were rightly
deducted in calculating the taxable net income of the
1,
trust. 2 T. C. 853.
the Court of,
review,
On the Government's petition for
Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed. 145 F. 2d 568.
We granted certiorari, 324 U. S. 835, on a petition which
asserted as grounds for the writ that the decision of the

TRUST OF BINGHAM v. COMM'R.
365

Opinion of the Court.

Court of Appeals departed from the principles laid down
in Dobson v. Commissioner, 320 U. S.489, governing review of decisions of the Tax Court, and that the decision
conflicted in principle with Commissioner v. Heininger,
320 U. S. 467, and Kornhauser v. United States, 276
U. S. 145.
The Court of Appeals left undisturbed the Tax Court's
findings that the questioned items were ordinary and necessary expenses for the management or conservation of
the trust property, but it held that the fees for contesting
the tax deficiency were nevertheless not deductible under
§ 23 (a) (2). It thought that the expenses of contesting
the income tax had nothing to do with the production of
income and hence were not deductible as expenses "for
the production of income" within the meaning of the
statute. The court also thought that these expenses were
not deductible, because they were paid in connection with
property held by the trustees "ready for distribution,"
and hence not "for the production of income." Similarly
it held that the fees for professional services rendered in
connection with the payment of legacies and the distribution of the trust fund, were not expenses relating to
the management of property held for the production of
income, since they were rendered after the trust term
had expired and when the property was ready for
distribution.
The Government makes like arguments here. In addition it urges that the expenses in connection with the distribution of the trust fund were not expenses of management of the trust property held for the production of
income but only expenses relating to its devolution; and
that the expenses are not deductible under § 23 (a) (2)
because there was no proximate relationship between the
expenses when paid and the property then held in
trust.
We think that these objections to the deductions fail
to take proper account of the plain language of § 23 (a)

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

(2), and the purpose of the section as disclosed by its
statutory setting and legislative history; and that notwithstanding the weight of the Tax Court's decision
against them, they raise questions of law reviewable by
the Circuit Court of Appeals and by this Court.
The requirement of § 23 (a) (2) that deductible expenses be "ordinary and necessary" implies that they must
be reasonable in amount and must bear a reasonable and
proximate relation to the management of property held
for the production of income. See H. Rep. No. 2333, 77th
Cong., 2d Sess., p. 75; Sen. Rep. No. 1631, 77th Cong., 2d
Sess., p. 88. Ordinarily questions of reasonableness and
proximity are for the trier of fact, here the Tax Court.
Commissioner v. Heininger, supra, 475; McDonald v.
Commissioner, 323 U. S. 57, 64-65; see Commissioner v.
Scottish American Investment Co., 323 U. S. 119. And
even when they are hybrid questions of "mixed law and
fact," their resolution, because of the fact element involved, will usually afford little concrete guidance for
future cases, and reviewing courts will set aside the decisions of the Tax Court only When they announce a rule of
general applicability, that the facts found fall short of
meeting statutory requirements. Dobson v. Commissioner, supra, 502; Commissioner v. Estate of Bedford,
ante, p. 283; cf. Paul, "Dobson v. Commissioner," 57 Harv.
Law Rev. 753, at 828-832, 836-837. But whether the
applicable statutes and regulations are such as to preclude
the decision which the Tax Court has rendered, is, as was
recognized in Dobson v. Commissioner, supra, 492-493, a
question of law reviewable on appeal. See also Commissioner v. Heininger, supra,475.
Here the decision of the Court of Appeals was that the
expenses were not deductible because they were not for
the purpose of producing income or capital gain, and
because the trust property, being ready for distribution,
was no longer held for the production of income. The

TRUST OF BINGHAM v. COMM'R.
365

Opinion of the Court.

terms of the trust, the nature of the property, and the
duties of the trustees with respect to it, were all found
by the Tax Court and are not challenged. The questions
whether, on the facts found, the expenses in question are
nondeductible, either because they were not to produce
income or because they were related to the management
of property which was not held for the production of income, turn in this case on the meaning of the words of
§ 23 (a) (2), "property held for the production of income."
They are therefore questions of law, decision of which is
unembarrassed by any disputed question of fact or any
necessity to draw an inference of fact from the basic findings. See Commissionerv. Scottish American Investment
Co., supra. They are "clear cut" questions of law, decision of which by the Tax Court does not foreclose their
decision by appellate courts, as in other cases, Dobson v.
Commissioner, supra, 492-493, although their decision
by the Tax Court is entitled to great weight. Dobson v.
Commissioner, supra, 501-502, and cases cited; cf. Medo
Photo Supply Corp. v. Labor Board, 321 U. S. 678, 681682, n. 1, and cases cited.
Since our decision in the Dobson case we have frequently reexamined, as matters of law, determinations
by the Tax Court of the meaning of the words of a statute
as applied to facts found by that court.' A question of
law is not any the less such because the Tax Court's de1 See, e. g., Security Mills Co. v. Commissioner,
321 U. S. 281, 286;

Douglas v. Commissioner, 322 U. S. 275; Commissioner v. Harmon, 323
U. S. 44; McDonald v. Commissioner, 323 U. S. 57; Claridge Apartments Co. v. Commissioner, 323 U. S. 141, 145; Fondren v
Commissioner, 324 U. S. 18; Choate v. Commissioner, 324 U. S. 1;
Commissioner v. Estate of Field, 324 U. S. 113; Webre Steib Co. v.
Commissioner, 324 U. S. 164; Commissioner v. Smith, 324 U. S. 177;
Commissioner v. Wemyss, 324 U. S. 303; Commissionerv. Wheeler, 324
U. S. 542; Estate of Putnam v. Commissionerj 324 U. S. 393; Angelus
Milling Co. v. Commissioner, ante, p. 293; Commissioner v. Estate of
Bedford, ante, p. 283; Commissioner v. Disston, post, p. 442.

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

cision of it is right rather than wrong. Whether or not its
decision is "in accordance with law" is a question which
the statute, Int. Rev. Code, § 1141 (c) (1), expressly
makes subject to appellate review. Congress, when it
thus authorized review of questions of law only, was not
unaware of the difficulties of such a review of the decisions
of a tribunal which decides questions both of law and of
fact. But Congress did not dispense with such review.
Hence ,the statute does not leave the Tax Court as the
final arbiter of the issue whether its own decisions bf questions of law are right or wrong. That can only be ascertained upon resort to the prescribed appellate process by
a consideration of the merits of the point of law involved,
and by its decision atp the conclusion of the process, not
before it begins. The fact that the Court of Appeals below, while accepting the Tax Court's findings of fact, has
nevertheless reversed its decision, would seem not to leave
the question of law decided so free from doubt that the
mandate of the statute could rightly be disregarded on
any theory. If review were to be denied in this case, it
would be difficult to say that any construction of a taxing
statute by the Tax Court would be subject to appellate
review.
We turn to the first ground for reversal relied on by the
Court of Appeals, that the property was held for distribution, and no longer for the production of income. The fact
that the trustees, in the administration of the trust, were
required to invest its corpus for the production of income
and to devote the income to the purposes of the trust,
establishes, as the Tax Court held, that the trust property
was held for the production of income during the stated
term of the trust. The decisive question is whether the
property ceased to be held'for the production of income
because, as the trust term reached its expiry date, the
trustees were under a duty to distribute the property
among the remaindermen.

TRUST OF BINGHAM v. COMM'R.
365

Opinion of the Court.

It is true that expiration of the trust operated to change
the beneficiaries entitled to receive the income of the trust
property, from those entitled to the income during the,
term of the trust to the remaindermen. But the duty of
the trustees to hold and conserve the trust property, and
until distribution, to receive income from it, continued.
The property did not cease to be.held for the production
of income because, upon the expiration of the trust and
until distribution, the trustees were under an additional
duty to distribute the trust fund, or because the trustees,
upon distribution, were then accountable to new and different beneficiaries, the residuary legatees, both for the
principal of the fund and any income accumulating after
the expiry date. To exclude from the deduction privilege, expenses which the Tax Court has held to be expenses of management of the trust, on the ground that the
trust fund, upon the expiration of the trust, ceased to be
"held for the production of the income" would be to disregard the Tax Court's findings of fact and the words of
the statute, and would defeat its obvious purpose.
Nor is there merit in the court's conclusion that the
expenses were not deductible because they were not for
the production of income. Section 23 (a) (2) provides for
two classes of deductions, expenses "for the production. . . of income" and expenses of "management, conservation, or maintenance of property held for the production of
income." To read this section as requiring that expenses
be paid for the production of income in order to be deductible, is to make unnecessary and to read out of the section
the provision for the deduction of expenses of management
of property held for the production of income.
There is no warrant for such a construction. Section
23 (a) (2) is comparable and in pari materia with § 23 (a)
(1), authorizing the deduction of business or trade expenses. Such expenses need not relate directly to the
production of income for the business. It is enough that

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

the expense, if "ordinary and necessary," is directly connected with or proximately results from the conduct of
the business. Kornhauser v. United States, supra, 152153; Commissioner v. Heininger, supra, 470-471. The
effect of § 23 (a) (2) was to provide for a class of nonbusiness deductions coextensive with the business deductions allowed by § 23 (a) (1), except for the fact that,
since they were not incurred in connection with a business,
tfe section made it necessary that they be incurred for
the production of income or in the management or conservation of property held for the production of income.
McDonald v. Commissioner, supra, 61-62, 66; and see
H. Rep. No. 2333, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 46, 74-76; S.
Rep. No. 1631, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 87-88.
Since there is no requirement that business expenses
be for the production of income, there is no reason for that
requirement in the case of like expenses of managing a
trust, so long as they are in connection with the man'%gement of.property which is held for the production of
Ancome. Section 23 (a) (2) thus treats the trust as an
entity for producing income comparable to a business
enterprise, and like § 23 (a) (1) permits deductions of
management expenses of the trust, even though the particular expense was not an expense directly producing
income. It follows that all of the items of expense here
in question are deductible if, as the Tax Court has held,
they are expenses of management or conservation of the
trust fund, whether their expenditure did or did not result
in the production of income.
The Government contends that the expenses incurred
in connection with the distribution of the corpus of the
trust to legatees are not deductible, because they are
not expenses of managing income producing property,
but expenses in connection with the devolution of the
property. If the suggestion is correct, it would follow that
expenses incurred in distributing the income of the trust

TRUST OF BINGHAM v. COMM'R.
365

Opinion of the Court.

to the ipcome beneficiaries are likewise not deductible,
since the distribution of income is also a devolution of
trust property. But the duties of the trustees were not
only to hold the property for the production of income and
to collect the income, but also, in administering the trust,
to distribute the income and the principal so held from
time to time, and the remainder of the principal at the expiration 'of the trust. Performance of each of these duties
is an integral part of carrying out the trust enterprise.
Accordingly, as the Tax Court held, the costs of distribution here were quite as much expenses of a function of
"management" of the trust property as were expenses
incurred in producing the trust income; and if "ordinary
and necessary," they were deductible.
In support of its contention, the Government relies
upon a part of the House Committee Report, accompanying the bill which became the Revenue Act of 1942, see
H. Rep. No. 2333, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 75, and upon
Treas. Regs. 103, § 19.23 (a)-15, neither of which was
mentioned by the Court of Appeals. They state that an
administrator or executor may not deduct expenses incurred in the administration of the estate of a decedent,
including those of distributing assets to the beneficiaries.
It is argued that by analogy like expenses of trustees
should not be deductible. But it is to be noted that there
is no such statement in the Report or Regulations as to
the distribution expenses of trustees. On the contrary,
the Regulations § 19.23 (a)-15, in dealing specifically
with expenses of trustees, provides only that their expenses of management and conservation of the trust property held for the production of income are deductible.
And the references in the Report to the non-deductibility
of expenses of administrators and executors were in explanation of the Congressional purpose to prevent the specified administration expenses from being deductible both
for income and estate taxation. To accomplish that pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

pose the Report recommended an amendment, which became § 161 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1942, adding § 162
(e) to the Internal Revenue Code. Section 162 (e) provides, with immaterial exceptions, that "amounts allowable Under § 812 (b) as a deduction in computing the net
estate of a decedent shall not be allowed as a deduction
under § 23." Here, as the Tax Court found, there is no
possibility of such a double deduction, since the expenses
were not deductible under the decedent's estate tax
return.
What we have said applies with equal force to the
expenses of contesting the tax deficiency. Section 23 (a)
(2) does not restrict deductions to those litigation expenses which alone produce income. On the contrary, by
its terms and in analogy with the rule under § 23 (a) (1),
the business expense section, the trust, a taxable entity
like a business, may deduct litigation expenses when they
are directly connected with or proximately result from
the enterprise-the management of property held for
production of income. Kornhauser v. United States,
supra, 152-153; Commissioner v. Heininger, supra, 470471. The, Tax Court could find as a matter of fact, as
it did, that the expenses of contesting the income taxes
were a proximate result of the holding of the property
for income. And we cannot say, as a matter of law, that
such expenses are any less deductible than expenses of
suits to recover income. Cf. Commissioner v. Heininger,
supra.
The Government relies on Treas. Regs. 103, § 19.23
(a)-15, which provide that "expenditures incurred . . .
for the purpose of recovering taxes (other than recoveries
required to be included in income), or for the purpose of
resisting a proposed additional assessment of taxes (other
than taxes on property hetd for the production of income) are not deductible expenses under this section [ § 23
(a) (2) of the Code], except that part thereof which the

TRUST OF BINGHAM v. COMM'R.
365

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

taxpayer clearly shows to be properly allocable to the
recovery of interest required to be included in income."
So far as this regulation purports to deny deduction of
litigation expense unless it is to produce income, it is not
in conformity to the statute, for the reasons already
stated, or with the Regulation already mentioned, which
provides that in addition to expenses for the production or
collection of trust income, expenses of management or
conservation of trust property held for the production
of income are also deductible. To that extent and to the
extent that it departs from the rule of Kornhauser v.
United States, supra, it conflicts with the meaning and
purpose of § 23 (a) (2), and so is unauthorized. Helvering v. Reynolds Tobacco Co., 306 U. S. 110.
We find no error of law in the judgment of the Tax
Court. Its judgment will be affirmed and that of the
Court of Appeals reversed.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

concurring.

This is one of those cases in which the ground of the
decision is more important than the decision itself, except
to the parties. And so, while I concur in the result, I feel
bound to say that I think the manner in which it is reached
is calculated to increase the already ample difficulties in
judicial review of Tax Court determinations. The course
of our decisions since Dobson v. Commissioner, 320 U. S.
489, calls for clarification and avoidance of further
confusion.
In Dobson v. Commissioner, supra, this Court elaborately considered the special function of the Tax Court
and the very limited functions of the Circuit Courts of
Appeals and of this Court in reviewing the Tax Court.
The unanimous opinion in the Dobson case was surely a
case of much ado about nothing, if it did not emphasize
the vast range of questions as to which the Tax Court

378 ,

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER, J.,

concurring.

325 U. S.

should have the final say. In making the Dobson pronouncement, the Court was not unaware that "questions
of fact" and "questions of law" were legal concepts around
which dialectic conflicts have been fought time out of
mind. The Dobson opinion took for granted that they
are useful instruments of thought even though not amenable to fixed connotations. The terms are unmanageable
and too confusing if it be assumed that unless they have
invariant meaning, that is, unless they serve the same
purpose for every legal problem in which they are invoked,
they can serve no purpose for any problem. The contribution of the Dobson case, one had a right to believe, was
the restriction of reviewable "questions of law" in tax
litigation to issues appropriate for review in relation to
the machinery which Congress has designed for such litigation. The Dobson case eschewed sterile attempts at
differentiation between "fact" and "law" in the abstract.
Instead, it found- significance in the scheme devised by
Congress for adjudicating tax controversies whereby Congress had, in the main, centralized in the Tax Court review
of tax determinations by the Treasury and had made the
decisions of the Tax Court final unless they were "not in
accordance with law," 44 Stat. 9, 110, 26 U. S. C. § 1141
(c) (1), with the result that, as a practical matter, only a
small percentage of Tax Court decisions gets into the Circuit Courts of Appeals, and a still smaller percentage
reaches, this Court.1 Therefore, the decisions of the Cira matter of historic survival, some tax litigation still reaches
district courts throughout the country. To that extent there is a
qualification upon the centralization of review in the Tax Court of
Treasury determinations. But the overvhelming volume of tax
litigation goes to the Tax Court. The ratio is about 6 to 1. The fact
that the district courts continue to have vestigial jurisdiction may
call for a scientific revamping of jurisdiction in tax cases. It does not
counsel against giving the fullest efficacy to Tax Court decisions consonant with its special responsibility. See Griswold, The Need for a
Court of Tax Appeals (1944) 57 Harv. L. Rev. 1153; Miller, Can
Tax Appeals Be Centralized? (1945) 23 Taxes 303.
1As

TRUST OF BINGHAM v. COMM'R.
365

FRANKFURTER,

379

J., concurring.

cuit Courts of Appeals, and even more so of this Court, are
bound to be more or less episodic and dependent upon contingencies that cannot give these appellate courts that feel
of the expert which is so important for wise construction
of such interrelated and complicated enactments as those
which constitute our revenue laws. These factors, so decisive in the stream of tax litigation, weigh heavily in
apportioning functions between the Tax Court and the
courts, reviewing the Tax Court. Accordingly, the vital
guidance of the Dobson opinion was that a decision of the
Tax Court should stand unless it involves "a clear-cut
mistake of law," 320 U. S. 489, 502. Considerations °that
may properly govern what are to be deemed questions of
fact and questions of law as between judge and jury, or considerations relevant to the drawing of a line between questions of fact and questions of law on appeal from a court
of first instance sitting without a jury, or in determining
what is a foreclosed question of fact in cases coming to
this Court from State courts on claims of unconstitutionality, may be quite misleading when a decision of the
Tax Court is challenged in the various Circuit Courts of
Appeals or here as "not in accordance with law."
Certainly, all disputed questions regarding events and
circumstances-the raw materials, as it were, of situations
which give rise to tax controversies-are for the Tax Court
to settle and definitively so. Secondly, there are questions that-do not involve disputes as to what really happened-as, for instance, what expenses were incurred
or what distribution of assets was made-but instead turn
on the meaning of what happened as a matter of business
practice or business relevance. Here we are in the domain
of financial and business interpretation in relation to taxation as to which the Tax Court presumably is as well
informed by experience as are the appellate judges and
certainly more frequently enlightened by the volume and
range of its litigation. Such issues bring us treacherously

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER, J.,

concurring.

325 U. S.

near to what abstractly are usually characterized as questions of law, whether the question of division of labor in a
litigation is between judges and lay juries, or between
judges of first instance and of appellate courts when there
is no difference of specialized experience between the two
classes of judges. Thus, the construction of documents
has for historic reasons been deemed to be a question of
law in the sense that the meaning is to be given by judges
and not by laymen. But this crude division between
what is "law" and what is "fact" is not relevant to the
proper demarcation of functions as between the Tax Court
and the reviewing courts. To hold that the Circuit Courts
of Appeals, and eventually this Court, must make an
independent examination of the meaning of every word
of tax legislation, no matter whether the words express
accounting, business or other conceptions peculiarly
within the special competence of the Tax Court, is to
sacrifice the effectiveness of the judicial scheme designed
by Congress especially for tax litigation to an abstract
notion of "law" derived from the merely historic function
of courts generally to construe documents, including legislation. More than that. If the appellate courts must
make an independent examination of the meaning of
every word in tax legislation, on the assumption that the
construction of legislative language is necessarily for the
appellate courts, how can they reasonably refuse to consider claims that the words have been misapplied in the
circumstances of a particular case? Meaning derives
vitality from application. Meaning is easily thwarted or
dist6rted by misapplication. If the appellate courts are
charged with the duty of giving meaning to words because
they are contained in tax legislation, they equally cannot
escape the duty of examining independently whether a
proper application has been given by the Tax Court.
The specialized equipment of the Tax Court and the
trained instinct that comes from its experience ought to

TRUST OF BINGHAM v. COMM'R.
365

FRANKFURTER, J., concurring.

leave with the Tax Court the final say also as to matters
which involve construction of legal documents and the
application of legislation even though the process may
be expressed in general propositions, so long as the Tax
Court has not committed what was characterized in the
Dobson case as a "clear-cut mistake of law."
That serves as a guide for 'judgment even though no
inclusive definition or catalogue is essayed.' The Tax
Court of course must conform to the procedural requirements which the Constitution and the laws of Congress
command. Likewise, in applying the provisions of the
revenue laws, the Tax Court must keep within what may
broadly be called the outward limits of categories and
classifications expressing legislative policy. Congress has
invested the Tax Court with primary-and largely with
ultimate-authority for redetermining deficiencies. It
is a tribunal to which mastery in tax matters must be attributed. The authority which Congress has thus given
the Tax Court involves the determination of what really
happened in a situation and what it means in the taxing
world. In order to redetermine deficiencies the Tax Court
must apply technical legal principles. The interpretation of tax statutes and their application to particular
circumstances are all matters peculiarly within the competence of the Tax Court. On the other hand, constitutional adjudication, determination of local law questions
and common law rules of property, such as the meaning
of a "general power of appointment" or the application
of the rule against perpetuities, are outside the special province of the Tax Court. See Paul, Dobson v.
Commissioner: the Strange Ways of Law and Fact (19.44)
57 Harv. L. Rev. 753, 847-48. Congress did not authorize review of all legal questions upon which the Tax
Court passed. It merely allowed, modification or reversal if the decision of the Tax Court is "not in accordance with law." But if a statute upon which the Tax

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER, J., concurring.

325 U. S.

Court unmistakably has to pass allows the Tax Court's
application of the law to the situation before it as a reasonable one-if the situation could, without violence to
language, be brought within the terms under which the
Tax Court placed it or be kept out of the terms from
whidh that Court kept it-the Tax Court cannot in reason be said to have acted "not in accordance with law."
In short, there was no "clear-cut mistake of law" but a
fair administration of it.
If these considerations are to prevail, the sole question
before a Circuit Court of Appeals is whether the decision
by the Tax Court presents a "clear-cut mistake of law."
There should be an end of the matter once it is admitted
that the application made by the Tax Court was an allowable one. If a question becomes a reviewable question in
tax cases because, abstractly considered, it may be cast
into a "pure question of law," it would require no great
dialectical skill to throw most questions which are appealed from the Tax Court into questions of law independently reviewable by the Circuit Courts of Appeals.
The road would be open to a new insistence for increased
tax reviews by this Court on certiorari. The intention
of the Dobson case was precisely otherwise. It was to
centralize responsibility in the Tax Court, to minimize
isolated intrusions by the Circuit Courts of Appeals into
the technical complexities of tax determinations except
when the Tax Court has clearly transcended its specialized competence, and to discourage resort to this Court in
tax cases except where conflict among the circuits or constitutional questions or a "clear-cut mistake of law" of
real importance may call for our intervention.
Let us apply these governing considerations to the case
in hand. The trustees here paid, as expenses in connection with the trust, certain legal fees, and these charges
they deducted from the gross trust income for 1940. The
Commissioner disallowed these deductions. The legal

TRUST OF BINGHAM v. COMM'R.
365

FRAnKFURTER, J.,

383

concurring.

services concerned (1) litigation in which the trustees
unsuccessfully contested a deficiency claim based on taxable gain to the estate, (2) payment of a legacy, and (3)
problems arising from the expiration of the trust and the
disposition of its assets. The sole question before the
Tax Court was whether these fees and charges were
deductible as expenses incurred "for the management,
conservation, or maintenance of property held for the
production of income" under § 121 (a) of the Revenue
Act of 1942, 56 Stat. 798, 819.
Whether these payments constituted expenses "for the
management . . . of property held for the production
of income," may as fairly be said to be a question of fact,
namely, the purpose which these payments served with
relation to property held for the production of income, as
it could be said that they involve a proper construction
of what the statute means by "management" of such
property. The truth of the matter is that the problem involves a judgment regarding the interplay of both questions, namely, what relation do these payments have to
what may properly be deemed the managerial duties of
trustees. It is possible to transform every so-called question of fact concerning the propriety of expenses incurred
by trustees into a generalized inquiry as to what the duties
of a trustee are and, therefore, whether a particular activity satisfied the conception of management which trusteeship devolves upon a trustee. Such a way of dealing
with these problems inevitably leads to casuistries which
are to be avoided by a fair distribution of functions between the Tax Court and the reviewing courts. The fact
that this problem may be cast in the form of intellectually
disinterested abstractions goes a long way to prove that
its solution should be left with the Tax Court.
If the decision by the Tax Court may fairly be deemed
to have been restricted to the facts of this case, as it may,
it certainly would be an issue of "fact." But even assum-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

325 U. S.

ing that the "issues are broader than the particular facts
presented" by this case, the Tax Court's decision-is not
deprived of finality. Yet an assumption to the contrary
is at the core of the Government's argument. Simply because the correctness of "certain general propositions" is
involved does not make the position taken by the Tax
Court a question of law. The real question is: What is the
nature of the issue upon which the Tax Court has pronounced? If the issue presents a difficulty which it is
peculiarly within the competence of the Tax Court to
resolve and that court has given a fair answer, every consideration which led to the pronouncement in the Dobson
case should preclude independent reexamination of the
Tax Court's disposition. Regardless of what the question
may be termed for purposes of review, the Tax Court's
determination should be accorded finality. That the Tax
Court has expressed an allowable opinion as to the meaning and application of a tax provision, here § 121 (a) of
the 1942 Revenue Act, should suffice to reinstate its decision, without opening the sluices to independent review
by the Circuit Courts of Appeals and this Court of multitudinous tax questions. Such is the principle or rule
of judicial administration which should guide review of
Tax'Court determinations.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON join
in this concurring opinion.

