ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. z. BURLEY.

'711

Counsel for Parties.

ELGIN, JOLIET & EASTERN RAILWAY CO. v.

BURLEY

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 160. Argued November 15, 1945.-Decided June 11, 1945.
1. The contention that an award of the National Railroad Adjustment Board under the Railway Labor Act amounts to nothing
more than an advisory opinion is inconsistent with the terms,
purposes and legislative history of the Act and with decisions of
this Court construing it. P. 720.
2. A collective bargaining representative is without statutory authority under the Railway Labor Act to compromise and settle
accrued monetary claims of individual employees (arising out of
.alleged violations of a collective agreement by the employer) or to
represent them exclusively before the National Railroad Adjustment Board in proceedings before it for determination of such
claims;' and, in the absence of legally sufficient authorization, a
settlement so effected and an adverse award based thereon do not
bar a suit by the individual employees to enforce such claims.
P. 738.
3. Upon the record in this case, it can not be said as a matter of law
that the collective bargaining representative was authorized in
any legally sufficient manner to settle the claims in question or to
represent the individual employees before the Adjustment Board.
P. 748.
140 F. 2d 488, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 323 U. S. 690, to review the reversal of a
summary judgment for the defendant railroad company in
a suit by employees upon claims arising out of alleged
violations of a collective bargaining agreement.

Mr. Paul R. Conaghan for petitioner.
Mr. John H. Gately, with whom Mr. Gerald J; Koptik
was on the brief, for respondents.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE delivered the opinion of the
Court..
This cause, arising upon an amended complaint,' brings
for decision novel and important questions concerning the
authority of a collective bargaining representative, affecting the operation of the Railway Labor Act of 1934. 48
Stat. 1185, 45 U. S. C. § 151 ff. The ultimatk issues are
whether such an agent has authority, by virtue of the Act
or otherwise, either to compromise and settle accrued
monetary claims of ten employees or to submit them for
determination by the National Railroad Adjustment
Board to the exclusion of their right, after the settlement
and after the Board's adverse decision, to assert them in
a suit brought for that purpose. The claims are for "penalty damages" for alleged violation of the starting time
provisions of a collective agreement, varying from $3,500 to
-_$14,000, and in the aggregate amounting to $65,274.00.2
The District Court rendered summary judgment for the
carrier, holding that the Board's award was a final adjudication of the claims, within the union's power to seek and
the Board's to make, precluding judicial review.' The
Court of Appeals reversed the judgment, 140 F. 2d 488,
holding that the record presented a question of fact
IAmendments were allowed to cure jurisdictional defects found to
exist upon an earlier appeal. Alderman v. Elgin, J. & E.R. Co., 125
F. 2d 971.
2 The record sets forth no provision for penalty damages.
But the
complaint alleges that under the terms of the agreement each of the
plaintiffs is entitled to "pay for an additional day, at time and one-half,
at the regular daily rate" for each day he was required to work contrary to the agreement's terms.
The court said: "I think that the controversy was submitted to
the Board, that it had jurisdiction and that it was decided, and that
the plaintiffs were represented there and are bound thereby ....

I

think the ruling of the Adjustment Board was binding upon the plaintiffs as well as upon the defendant, and that it is binding on this court
in this proceeding."

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

713

Opinion of the Court.

whether the union had been authorized by respondents
"to negotiate, compromise and settle" the claims. We
granted certiorari, 323 U. S. 690, in order to resolve the
important questions affecting application and operation
of the Act.
A statement of the more important facts will put the
issues in sharper perspective. The controversy relates to
operations in petitioner's so-called "Whiting Yard." Prior
to July 24, 1934, respondents, or some of them, were employed by the Standard Oil Company to do private intraplant switching in its Whiting, Indiana,(plant. On that
date this work was taken over by petitioner. Until then
Standard Oil's switching crews began work each day at
hours fixed in advance by the management, which varied
as plant operations. required.
Prior to 1934 petitioner's crews at all yards in Indiana
and Illinois began work daily in accordance with starting
time provisions contained in Article 6 of a collective agreement made in 1927 between petitioner, and the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, governing rules, working
conditions and rates of pay of yardmen.
Upon transfer of the Whiting yard switching to petitioner, respondents theretofore employed by Standard Oil
became employees of petitioner and members of the
Brotherhood. On July 24, 1934, company officials conferred with representatives of the engineers, the firemen
and the yardmen concerning terms of employment. The
Brotherhood acted for the yardmen. Apparently agreement was reached on all matters except starting time
but, as to that, versions of what transpired differ. Respondents and the Brotherhood have maintained that the
1927 agreement, including Article 6, became applicable to
them upon the transfer. They say, however, that they
assented to a suspension of Article 6 for thirty days from
July 27, 1934, to enable the company to work out adjustment to the plant's operations, and accordingly it governed their relation with petitioner from August 26,1934.

714

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U.S.

The company has insisted that Article 6 did not become
applicable to respondents upon the transfer and that it
made no agreement to apply Article 6, other than to follow it as closely as possible, prior to October 31, 1938,
when it and the Brotherhood eventually agreed to place
Whiting yard crews on fixed starting time, under circumstances to be noted.
Whichever version is true, a long controversy resulted.
The carrier continued to follow the former practice, although departures from the schedule were reduced, as it
claims, in conformity with the oral undertaking to observe it as far as possible. The work went on without
interruption. But numerous complaints on account of
departures were made through local officers of the Brotherhood. Time slips were filed by the employees. Frequent
negotiations took place. None however resulted in a
settlement prior to October 31, 1938.
In this state of affairs, respondents authorized the
Brotherhood to file complaint with the National Railroad
Adjustment Board for violation of Article 6. This was
done on November 23, 1936. The "statement of claim"
was signed and filed by Williams, chairman of the general
grievance committee. It asserted that the carrier, having "placed the employees under the agreement of the
yardmen," had "failed to put into effect the starting time
provisions" of Article 6, and denied that violation was
justified either because the carrier had agreed with the
Engineers to follow the formerly prevailing practice or by
the carrier's claim that the work could be done in no other
way. The submission was intended to secure compliance.
There was no prayer for money damages. Petitioner
maintained that Article 6 was not applicable.
The Board, following its customary procedure,4 docketed the claim as No. 3537, notified the carrier and the
4The procedure, though informal, consists principally in written
statements or "submissions" filed by the parties, which perform the
functions of pleading and evidence combined, and oral argument upon

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

715

Opinion of the Court.

union that the case, with many others docketed at the
same time, was "assumed to be complete," and forwarded
to each copies of the other's submissions. The record does
not disclose what followed until nearly two years later.
On October 31, 1938, Williams and Johnson, secretary
of the Brotherhood, two of the grievance committee's three
members, accepted an offer made by petitioner's president,
Rogers, to settle the claim. The settlement took the form
of a proposal, made in a letter by Rogers to Williams, to
settle some 61 different claims, including "Labor Board
Docket No. 3537-Starting time of switch engines in Whiting S. 0. Yard." Williams and Johnson endorsed acceptance for the Brotherhood and the yardmen on the letter.
Because of its importance, pertinent portions are set forth
in the margin.' On the day the settlement was concluded
the submissions thus made. See Garrison, The National Railroad
Adjustment Board: A Unique Administrative Agency (1937) 46 Yale
L. J. 567, for a detailed description of the procedure. See also Final
Report of theAttorney General's Committee on Administrative Procedure (1941) 185 ff.; Administrative Procedure in Government
Agencies, Sen. Doc. No. 10, Part IV, 77th Cong., 1st Sess.
5The letter was addressed to Williams, as general chairman of the
Brotherhood, and dated October 28, 1938. It stated:
"Since my letter of August 18th in which I tentatively proposed
settlement of certain matters of grievance we have had further correspondence and conferences which have modified our decision in some
cases. Therefore, in order that the whole matter be placed in concrete
form I am outlining below our proposals to settle all of the cases
except as otherwise specified.
"Case No. 5-Labor Board Docket #3537-Starting time of switch
engines in Whiting S.0. Yard.
"Settled by agreement that the starting times for a ninety aay trial
period commencing November 15th, 1938, shall be the times provided
for in Article 6 of the Yardmen's Agreement instead of the starting
times heretofore agreed upon and now being followed. If at the end
of the ninety day trial period the Railway Company or its employees
claim that the starting times as fixed in Article 6 do not resul. in
efficient and economical operation and in satisfaction to our employecs

716

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Rogers and Williams advised the Board of it by letter and
jointly requested that the case be withdrawn from the
docket, which accordingly was done.
Notwithstanding the settlement, a further dispute
arose. In March, 1939, the Brotherhood, through Williams, requested the carrier to furnish a complete list of
crews in the Whiting yard started at times other than

those fixed by Article 6 from August 27, 1934, to November
15, 1938, when the settlement became effective. The
company declined to furnish the list, stating it was at a
loss to understand the reason for the request in view of
the settlement.
The upshot of the dispute was the filing of another claim
with the Board, Docket No. 7324, on May 18, 1939, by
Williams, acting for the Brotherhood. This submission
and to the industry served, then representatives of the Railway Company and representatives of the Yardmen, and representatives of the
Engineers and representatives of the Firemen will sit down and work
out a schedule of starting time best suited for meeting the special
requirements of the industry.
"We have by this letter given you a complete r6sum6 of all of the
claims which have not heretofore been disposed of, filed by you on
behalf of the employees whom you represent and have proposed in
this >etter a very liberal disposition of all the cases involved. The
settlements proposed are predicated on a complete settlement and
withdrawal of all cases now pending either before the board, or under
discussion with this office except Case No. 4, which it is understood
will be left to a decision by the National Railroad Adjustment Board,
and it is further understood that in the event these settlements are
accepted that the claims listed in this letter cover all claims of a similar
nature, and that no other claims covering the same or like situations
wil be presented when such claims arise from causes occurring prior to
the date of this settlement. [Emphasis added.]
"Yours truly,
"S. M. RoGERs, President.
"Accepted for the Yardmen: Oct. 31, 1938.
"C. H. Williams General Chairman, B. of R. T.
"S. F. Johnson, Secretary, B. of R. TN'

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

Opinion of the Court.

was "for one day's pay at time and one-half for each foreman and each helper for each day they were required to
work in yard service in the Whiting (Standard Oil Company) Yard, in violation of the fixed starting time provided for in Article No. 6 of the Yardmen's Agreement . . . effective January 1, 1927, and applicable to
Whiting (Standard Oil Company) Yardmen, July 27,1934,
from dates of August 27, 1934, until November 14, 1938,
inclusive."
The submission not only maintained the applicability
of Article 6 and accrual of the individual claims asserted.
It also maintained that the settlement of October 31, 1938,
was effective only to fix the starting time for the future
and had no effect to waive or determine individual claims
for penalty damages accrued prior to the settlement.'
The carrier's submission reiterated its position in Case
No. 3537. It also relied upon the settlement as precluding
later assertion of any claim, individual or collective, based
upon occurrences prior to the date of the settlement.
The matter went to decision by the Board. Under the
procedure prescribed in case of deadlock, cf. § 3 First (1),
6 Cf.

note 5. The submission stated: "There were no agreements

reached whereby payment for violation of Article No. 6 of the Yardmen's Agreement would be waived as a result of withdrawal of Labor
Board Docket No. 3537. In fact that case held no claim for payment for time. It was simply a case to settle the dispute as to the
carrier'sright to force the yard crews in the Whitiiig yard to work at
times other than the fixed starting time;provided for in Article 6
"As stated before, Case No. 5--Labor oard Docket No. 3537 contained no claim for pay to Whiting Yardmen. Consequently it was
not a question before the Management and the Committee in the
starting time negotiation and claim cannot be made that a waiver
was made on a' matter which was not negotiated."
The submission also denied that oral agreements relating to starting time, claimed by the "carrier to have been made. at the time of the
trinsfer in 1934, could be effective "to invalidate the .prescribed
written rule of Article 6." Williams however did not question the
Validity of the verbal agreement, as he maintained, for the thirty-day
suspension.

718

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

a referee was called in. The award was made by the First
Division on September 6, 1940. It sustained the Board's
jurisdiction,' found that "the parties to said dispute were
given due notice of. hearing thereon," and held that "the
evidence shows that the parties to the agreement disposed
of the claim here made by the letter of carrier dated October 28, 1938, accepted by employees October 31, 1938."
Accordingly the claim was "denied per findings."
Thereafter, on November 19, 1940, the present suit was
instituted. As has been noted, the case comes here after
a summary judgment rendered on the carrier's motion,
supported by the affidavit of its vice president. This in
effect set up the compromise agreement and the award in
Case No. 7324 as bases for the judgment sought.
The range and precise nature of the issues may be summarized best perhaps as they were shaped upon respondents' opposition to the carrier's motion. They denied that
either Williams or the union had authority to release their
individual claims or to submit them for decision by the
Board. They relied upon provisions of the Brotherhood's
constitution and rules,' of which the carrier was alleged
to have knowledge, as forbidding union officials to release
individual claims or to submit them to the Board "without specific authority so to do granted by the individual
members themselves"; and denied that such authority in
either respect had been given.
The validity and the conclusive effect of the award were
challenged also upon other grounds, among them that
7The submissions in no way challenged the jurisdiction of the Board
or of the Division.
8See Part III. The provisions regulate the union's internal procedure in relation to making changes in a "general or system wage
schedule or agreement," Rule No. 3, and that to be followed when the
local chairman or grievance committee fails "satisfactorily to adjust
any grievance referred to it." Rule No. 7. The latter includes a
provision that "a general grievance committee may authorize their
chairman to handle all grievances received from local lodges." See
also note 40.

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

719

Opinion of the Court.

respondents individually received no notice of the submission or the hearing until after the award was made; that
since the award denied a claim for money damages, it was
within the exception of § 3 First (in), which provides that
"the awards shall be final and binding upon both parties
to the dispute, except in so far as they shall contain a
money award," and therefore did not preclude this suit;
and that the Act, if construed to make the award conclusive, would violate the Fifth Amendment's due process
provision by denying judicial review to defeated employees, though allowing it to defeated employers. Cf. § 3
First (p), (q); Washington Terminal Co. v. Boswell, 124
F. 2d 235, affirmed by an equally divided Court, 319
U. S. 732.
Finally respondents suggested most sweepingly that the
Board may act "merely as an arbitrator," with the result
that "any decisions thereunder are void because it passes
on matters and bases its decision and its opinion on law
and fact which is contrary to public policy." The prayer
was that the court overrule the carrier's motion for summary judgment and, in doing so, determine that the release
was not effective; the award was not a final adjudication
of the claims; and the award was void for lack of jurisdiction of the parties or the subject matter or "because said
Act under which award was entered is unconstitutional."
The District Court's judgment rested squarely on the
conclusive effect of the award in Docket No. 7324. It did
not indicate whether it regarded the Brotherhood's authority to submit the claims and appear for the employees
as derived from the statute or, apart from the statute,
as a matter of law upon the particular facts. But it must
be taken to have held that, upon the pleadings and the
affidavits, no genuine issue of material fact was presented,
Fed. Rules Civ. Proc., Rule 56 (c), and therefore that it
was immaterial if, as alleged, respondents had not individually given the Brotherhood or Williams specific authority

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

to submit their claims for decision or represent them in the
hearings.
The Court of Appeals, however, made no reference to
the issues concerning the award and its effect upon the
claims. But its judgment must be taken to have determined implicitly that none of petitioner's contentions in
these respects is valid.
The issues are not merely, as the Court of Appeals assumed, whether the Brotherhood had authority to compromise and settle the claims by agreement with the carrier and whether on the record this presents a question
of fact. For petitioner insists, and the District Court
held, that the award of the Board was validly made, and
is final, precluding judicial review. We do not reach the
questions of finality, which turn upon construction of the
statutory provisions and their constitutional validity as
construed.? Those questions should not be determined
unless the award was validly made, which presents, in our
opinion, the crucial question. Respondents attack the
validity and legal effectiveness of the award in three ways.
Two strike at its validity on narrow grounds. Respondents say the Brotherhood had no power to submit the dispute for decision by the Board without authority given
by each of them individually and that no such authority
was given. They also maintain that they were entitled
to have notice individually of the proceedings before the
Board and none was given.
The third and most sweeping contention undercuts all
other issues concerning the award's effects, whether for
validity or for finality. In substance it is that the award,
when rendered, amounts to nothing more than an advisory
opinion. The contention, founded upon language of the
opinion in Moore v. Illinois CentralR. Co., 312 U. S. 630,
regards the Act's entire scheme for the settlement of
grievances as wholly conciliatory in character, involving
"Cf. § 3 First (m), (o), (p), (q).

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

721

Opinion of the Court.

no element of legal effectiveness, with the consequence
that the parties are entirely free to accept or ignore the
Board's'decision.
At the outset we put aside this broadest contention
as inconsistent with the Act's terms, purposes anid legislative history.' The Moore case involved no question concerning the validity or the legal effectiveness of an award
when rendered." Nor did it purport to determine that
the Act creates no legal obligations through an award or
otherwise.

Apart from the affirmance by equal division

in Washington Terminal Co. v. Boswell, supra,both prior
and later decisions here are wholly inconsistent with such
a view of its effects.

Cf. VirginianR. Co. v. System Fed-

eration,300 U. S. 515; Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Railway
Clerks, 281 U. S. 548; 1 Switchmen'88Union v. National
Mediation Board, 320 U. S. 297; General Committee v.
10 Cf. Part I.
1 It was held that nothing in the Act "purports to take away from

the courts the jurisdiction to determine a controversy over a wrongful
discharge or to make an administrative finding a prerequisite to filing
a suit in court," 312 U. S. at 634; and therefore the employee's~suit
could be maintained against the carrier without prior resort to the
Adjustment Board. Among the reasons assigned was that the machinery provided for settling disputes was not "based on a philosophy
of legal compulsion" but created "a system for peaceful adjustment
and mediation .voluntary in its nature."
The problem presented was whether the Adjustment Board procedure either was exclusive or was an essential preliminary to judicial
proceedings within the doctrine of primary jurisdiction. These were
questions not entirely determinable by the criterion of whether the
procedure is wholly advisory or conciliatory in character. For, conceivably, Congress might have made the taking of the Board's merely:
advisory opinion a condition precedent to asking for judicial relief;
and, conversely, allowing that relief without prior resort to the Board
does not necessarily make the Board's action, when taken, merely
advisory.
12 Thus, one of the statute's primary commands, judicially enforceable, is found in the repeated declaration of a duty upon all parties
to a dispute to negotiate for its settlement. See note 26; Virginian

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

M.-K.-T. R. Co., 320 U. S. 323; General Committee v.
Southern Pacific Co., 320 U. S. 338.

The difference between disputes over grievances and disputes concerning the making of collective agreements is
traditional in railway labor affairs. It has assumed large
importance in the Railway Labor Act of 1934, substan.tively and procedurally.' It divides the jurisdiction and
functions of the Adjustment Board from those of the
Mediation Board, giving them their distinct characters.
It also affects the parts to be played by the collective agent
and the represented employees, first in negotiations for
settlement in conference and later in the quite different
procedures which the Act creates for disposing of the two
types of dispute. Cf. §§ 3, 4.
The statute first marks the distinction in § 2, which
states as among the Act's five general purposes: "(4) to
provide for the prompt and orderly settlement of all disputes concerning rates of pay, rules, or working conditions; (5) to provide for the prompt and orderly settlement of all disputes growing out of grievances or out of
the interpretation or application of agreements covering
rates of pay, rules, or working conditions." The two sorts
of dispute are sharply distinguished," though there are
points of common treatment. Nevertheless, it is clear
from the Act itself, from the history of railway labor disR. Co. v. System Federation,300 U. S. 515; cf. Switchmen's Union v.
National Mediation Board, 320 U. S. 297, 300, 320; General Committee v. M.-K.-T. R. Co., 320 U. S. 323, 331, 334. This duty is not
merely perfunctory. Good faith exhaustion of the possibility of agreement is required to fulfill it. Cf. Virginian R. Co. v. System Federation, qupra,at 548, 550; Trainmen v. Toledo, P. & W. R. Co., 321 U. S.
50, 56 ff. At successive stages of the statutory procedure othei duties
Sare imposed. Cf. §§ 5 First (b), 6, 10.
Cf. the references cited in notes 4 and 15.
1
4 Cf. text Part II at note 38; also Hughes Tool Co. v. Labor Board,
147 F. 2d 69, 72, 73.

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

Opinion of the Court.

putes and from the legislative history of the various
statutes which have dealt with them,"5 that Congress has
drawn major lines of difference between the two classes
of controversy.
The first relates to disputes over the formation of collective agreements or efforts to secure them. They arise
where there is no such agreement or where it is sought to
change the terms of one, and therefore the issue is not
whether an existing agreement controls the controversy.
They look to the acquisition of rights for the future, not
to assertion of rights claimed to have vested in the past.
The second class, however, contemplates the existence
of a collectiye agreement already concluded or, at any
rate, a situation in which no effort is made to bring about
a formal change in terms or to create a new one. The
dispute relates either to the meaning or proper application
of a particular provision with reference to a specific situation or to an omitted case. In the latter event the claim
is founded upon some incident of the employment relation,
or asserted one, independent of those covered by the collective agreement, e. g., claims on account of personal
injuries. In either case the claim is to rights accrued, not
merely to have new ones created for the future.
In general the difference is between what are regarded
traditionally as the major and the minor disputes of the
railway labor world." The former present the large issues
25 See the references cited in note 4; Hearings before Committee on
Interstate Commerce on H. R. 7650, 73d Cong., 2d Sess.; Hearings
before Committee on Interstate Commerce on S.3266, 73d Cong., 2d
Sess.; Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Railroad Labor Board, 261 U. S. 72;
Pennsylvania System Federation v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 267 U. S.
203; Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Brotherhood, 281 U. S. 548; Virginian
R. Co. v. System Federation,300 U. S. 515.
16 Cf. the references cited in note 4. Commissioner (also Coordinator) Eastman, who very largely drafted the 1934 amendments, said
in testifying at the House Committee hearings concerning them:
"Please note that disputes concerning changes in rates of pay, rules,
or working conditions may not be so referred [to the National Adjust-

724

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

about which strikes ordinarily arise with the consequent
interruptions of traffic the Act sought to avoid. Because
they more often involve those consequences and because
they seek to create rather than to enforce contractual
rights, they have been left for settlement entirely to the
processes of noncompulsory adjustment.
The so-called minor disputes, on the other hand, involving grievances, affect the smaller differences which inevitably appear in the carrying out of major agreements and
policies or arise incidentally in the course of an employment. They represent specific maladjustments of a
detailed or individual quality. They seldom produce
strikes, though in exaggerated instances they may do so."
Because of their comparatively minor character and the
general improbability of their causing interruption of
peaceful relations and of traffic, the 1934 Act sets them
apart from the major disputes and provides for very
different treatment.
Broadly, the statute as amended marks out two distinct
routes for settlement of the two classes of dispute; respectively, each consisting of three stages. The Act treats the
two types of dispute alike in requiring negotiation as the
first step toward settlement and therefore in contemplating voluntary action for both at this stage, in the sense
that agreement is sought- and cannot be compelled. To
ment Board], but are to be handled, when unadjusted, through the
process of mediation. The national a4justment board is to handle
only the minor cases growing out of grievances or out of the interpretation or application of agreements." Hearings before Committee
on Interstate Commerce on H. R. 7650, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., 47; cf.
also pp. 49, 51 59, t2. And see the testimony of Harrison, a principal
union proponent, before the House Committee, id., at 8083; and
before the Senate Committee, Hearings before Committee on
Interstate Commerce on S. 3266, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., 33, 35.
"Cf. the testimony of Eastman and Harrison, cited in note 16.

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

Opinion of the Court.

induce agreement, however, the duty to negotiate is
imposed for both grievances and major disputes. 8
Beyond the initial stages of negotiation and conference,
however, the procedures diverge. "Major disputes" go
first to mediation under the auspices of the National Mediation Board; if that fails, then to acceptance or rejection
of arbitration, cf. § 7; Trainmenv. Toledo, P. & W. R. Co.,
321 U. S. 50; and finally to possible presidential intervention to secure adjustment.
§ 10. For their settlement
the statutory scheme retains throughout the traditional
voluntary processes of negotiation, mediation, voluntary
arbitration, and conciliation. Every facility for bringing
about agreement is provided and pressures for mobilizing
public opinion are applied. The parties are required to
submit to the successive procedures designed to induce
agreement. § 5 First (b). But compulsions go only to
insure that those procedures are exhausted before resort
can be had to self-help. No authority is empowered to
decide the dispute and no such power is intended, unless
the parties themselves agree to arbitration.
The course prescribed for the settlement of grievances
is very different beyond the initial stage. Thereafter the
Act does not leave the parties wholly free, at their own
will, to agree or not to agree. On the contrary, one of
the main purposes of the 1934 amendments was to provide
a more effective process of settlement."
Prior to 1934 the parties were free at all times to go to
court to settle these disputes. Notwithstanding the contrary intent of the 1926 Act, each also had the power, if
18 Cf. note 12; also notes 26, 27, and text infra. The obligation is
not partial. In plain terms the duty is laid on carrier and employees.
alike, together with their representatives; and in equally plain termsit applies to all disputes covered by the Act, whether major or minor.
19 H. Rep. No. 1944 on H. R. 9861, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., 3; S. Rep.
No. 1065 on S. 3266, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., 1, 2.

726

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

not the right, to defeat the intended settlement of grievances by declining to join in creating the lo~al boards of
adjustment provided for by that Act. They exercised this
power to the limit. Deadlock became the common practice, making decision impossible. The result was a complete breakdown in the practical working of the machinery.
Grievances accumulated and stagnated until the mass assumed the proportions of a major dispute. Several organizations took strike ballots and thus threatened to
interrupt traffic, a factor which among others induced the
Coordinator of Transportation to become the principal
author and advocate of the amendments. The sponsor
in the House insisted that Congress act upon them before
adjournment for fear that if no action were taken a railroad crisis might take place.20 The old Mediation Board
was helpless. 21 To break this log jam, and at the same
time to get grievances out of the way of the settling of
major disputes through the functioning of the Mediation
Board was created and given power
Board, the Adjustment
22
to decide them.
20

Cf. 78 Cong. Rec. 12553. Coordinator Eastman referred, in his"
testimony, to four recent strike votes occasioned by deadlock. Hearings before Committee on Interstate Commerce on S. 3266, 73d Cong.,
.2d Sess., 17.
21The Chairman told the Senate Committee: "The provision in
the present act [1926] for adjustment boards is in practice about
as near a fool provision as anything could possibly be. I mean this-that on the face of it they shall, by agreement, do so and so. Well,
you can do pretty nearly anything by agreement, but how can you
get them to agree?" Hearings before Committee on Interstate Commerce on S.3266, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., 137.
21 See, for a general view of the circumstances inducing enactment
of the 1934 Amendments, the references cited above in notes 4, 15,
16, 19. The report of the House Committee in charge of the bill
stated:
: "Many thousands of these disputes have been considered by boards
established under the Railway Labor Act; but the boards have been
unable to reach a majority decision, and so the proceedings have been

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

727

Opinion of the Court.

The procedure adopted is nQt one of mediation and conciliation only, like that provided for major disputes under
the auspices of the Mediation Board. Another tribunal
of very different character is established with "jurisdiction" to determine grievances and make awards concerning
them. Each party to the dispute may submit it for decision, whether or not the other is willing, provided he has
himself discharged the initial duty of negotiation." § 3
First (i). Rights of notice,' hearing, and participation or
representation are given. § 3 First (j). In some instances judicial review and enforcement of awards are
expressly provided or are contemplated. § 3 First (p);
cf. § 3 First (m).

When this is not done, the Act pur-

ports to make the Board's decisions "final and binding."
§ 3 First (m).

The procedure is in terms and purpose very different
from the preexisting system of local boards. That system
was in fact and effect nothing more than one for what
respondents call "voluntary arbitration." No dispute
could be settled unless submitted by agreement of all
parties. When one was submitted, deadlock was common
and there was no way of escape. The Adjustment Board
deadlocked. These unadjusted disputes have become so numerous
that on several occasions the employees have resorted to the issuance
of strike ballots and threatened to interrupt interstate commerce in
order to secure an adjustment. This has made it necessary for the
President of the United States to intervene and establish an emergency board to investigate the controversies. This condition should
be corrected in the interest of industrial peace and of uninterrupted
transportation service. This bill, therefore, provides for the establishment of a national board of adjustment to which these disputes
may be submitted if they shall not have been adjusted in conference
between the parties." H. Rep. No. 1944, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., 3. Cf.
also the testimony of Coordinator Eastman, Hearings before Committee on Interstate Commerce on H. R. 7650, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., 49.
28 Section 3 First (i) expressly conditions the right to move from
negotiation into proceedings before the Adjustment Board upon "failing to reach an adjustment in this manner," i. e., by negotiation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

was created to remove the settlement of grievances from
this stagnating process and bring them within a general
and inclusive plan of decision."4 The aim was not to dispense with agreement. It was to add decision where
agreement fails and thus to safeguard the public as well
as private interests against the harmful effects of the
preexisting scheme.
II
The collective agent's power to act in the various stages
of the statutory procedures is part of those procedures
and neeessarily is related to them in function, scope and
purpose.
The statute itself vests exclusive authority to negotiate
and to conclude agreements concerning major disputes
in the duly selected collective agent. Cf. Virginian R. Co.
v. System Federation,supra." Since the entire statutory
See the testimony of Coordinator Eastman and Mr. Harrison,
cited in note 16. The latter stated, at the Senate Committee hearings,
pp. 33, 35:
S"., . this has been a question for the last 14 years as to what
kind of boards we are going to have to settle our grievances . . .
24

We have always sought national boards; the railroads

. . .

have

sought the system boards, regional boards . . . Most of the boards
• . . under the present law . . . have deadlocked on any number

of cases. As a result of that there was fast growing up in our
industry a serious condition that might very well develop into substantial interruption of interstate commerce

. .

. These railway

labor organizationshave always opposed compulsory determinationof
their controversies. We have lived a long time and got a lot of experience, and we know that these minor cases that develop out of
contracts that we make freely, and . . . we are now ready to concede

that we can risk having our grievances go to a board and get them
determined, and that is a contribution that these organizations are
. . . if we are going to get a hodgepodge arrangewilling to make.
ment by law . . . then we don't want to give up that right, because we

only give up the right because we feel that we will get a measure. of
justice by this machinery that we suggest here." (Emphasis added.)
25 Cf. also Medo Photo Supply Corp. v. Labor Board, 321 U. S.
678; J. I. Case Co. v. Labor Board, 321 U. S. 332.

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

Opinion of the Court.

procedure for settling major disputes is aimed only at
securing agreement and not decision, unless the parties
agree to arbitration, this exclusive authority includes representation of the employees not only in the stage of
conference, but also in the later ones of mediation,
arbitration and conciliation.
Whether or not the agent's exclusive power extends also
to the settlement of grievances, in conference or in proceedings before the Board, presents more difficult questions. The statute does not expressly so declare. Nor
does it explicitly exclude these functions. The questions
therefore are to be determined by implication from the
pertinent provisions. These are the ones relating to rights
of participation in negotiations for settlement and in
proceedings before the Board. They are in part identical
with the provisions relating to major disputes, but not
entirely so; and the differences are highly material.
The questions of power to bargain concerning grievances, that is; to conclude agreements for their settlement,
and to represent aggrieved employees in proceedings
before the Board are not identical. But they obviously
are closely related in the statutory scheme and in -fact.
If the collective agent has exclusive power to settle grievances by agreement, a strong inference, though not
necessarily conclusive, would follow for its exclusive power
to represent the aggrieved employee before the Board.
The converse also would be true. Accordingly it will be
convenient to consider the two questions together.
The primary provisions affecting the duty to treat are
found in § 2 First and Second, imposing the duty generally
as to all disputes, both major and minor, and §§ 2 Sixth
and 3 First (i), together with the proviso to § 2 Fourth,
which apply specially to grievances. These sections in
material part are set forth in the margin,' except the
2 By § 2 First, "It shall be the duty of all carriers, their officers,
agentsi, and employees to exert every reasonable effort to make and

730

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

proviso which is as follows: "Provided, That nothing in
this Act shall be construed to prohibit a carrier from permitting an employee, individually,or local representatives
of employees from conferring with management during
maintain agreements concerning rates of pay, rules, and working
conditions, and to settle all disputes, whether arising out of the application of such agreements or otherwise, in order to avoid any interruption to commerce . . ." By § 2 Second, "All disputes between
a carrier or carriers and its or their employees shall be considered, and,
if possible, decided, with all expedition, in conference between representatives designated and authorized so to confer, respectively, by
the carrier or carriers and by the employees thereof interested in the
dispute." (Emphasis added.) These are the basic sections creating
the duty, applicable to all disputes, major or minor, and to carriers
and employees alike.
Other provisions affecting the general duty to treat are those of § 2
Third, that "representatives, for the purposes of this Act, shall be
designated by the respective parties without interference" by the
other and "need not be persons in the employ of the carrier"; of § 2
Fourth, that "the majority of any craft or class of employees shall
have the right to determine who shall be the representative of the
craft or class for the purposes of this Act"; and of § 2 Eighth that
"every carrier shall notify its employees by printed notices .. .that
all disputes between the carrier and its employees will be handled in
accordance with the requirements of this Act." (Emphasis added.)
Section 2 Sixth applies specially to grievances, as does § 3 First (i).
The former provides: "In case of a dispute between a carrier or
carriers and. its or their employees, arising out of grievances or out
of the interpretation or application of agreements concerning rates
of pay, rules, or working conditions, it shall be the duty of the designated representative or representatives of such carrier or carriers and
of such employees, within ten days after the receipt of notice of a
desire on the part of either party to confer in respect to such dispute,
to specify a time and place . . ." Section 3 First (i) is as follows:
"The disputes between an employee or group of employees and a
carrier or carriers growing out of grievances or out of the interpretation or application of agreements concerning rates of pay, rules, or
working conditions, including cases pending and unadjusted on the
date of approval of this Act, shall be handled in the usual manner up
to and including the chief operating officer of the carrier designated
to handle such disputes; but, failing to reach an adjustment in this

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

Opinion of the Court.

working hours without loss of time, or to prohibit a carrier
from furnishing free transportation to its employees while
engaged in the business of a labor organization."
(Emphasis added.)
Relating to participation in the Board's proceedings, in
addition to the concluding sentence of § 3 First (i). see
note 26, is § 3 First (j), as follows: "Parties may be heard
either in person, by counsel, or by other representatives,
as they may respectively elect, and the several divisions
of the Adjustment Board shall give due notice of all hearings to the employee or employees and the carrier or
carriers involved in any dispute submitted to them."
(Emphasis added.)
Petitioner urges that, notwithstanding the proviso and
§ 3 First (j), the effect of the provisions taken as a whole
is to make the collective agent the employees' exclusive
representative for the settlement of all disputes, both
major and minor, and of the latter "whether arising out
of the application of such [collective] agreements or otherwise." The argument rests primarily upon §§ 2 First,
Second, Third, Fourth, Sixth, and 3 First (i). It emphasizes the carrier's duty to treat with the collective
2
representative, as reinforced by §§ 2 Eighth and Tenth.
Petitioner does not squarely deny that the aggrieved
employee may confer with the carrier's local officials either
manner, the disputes may be referred by petition of the parties or by
either party to the appropriatedivision of the Adjustment Board with
a full statement of the facts and all supporting data bearing upon
the disputes." (Emphasis added.)
27 Section 2 Eighth makes this proviso part of the contract of employment between the carrier and each employee, and § 2 Tenth
makes it a misdemeanor for the carrier to refuse to observe it.
Section 2 Eighth incorporates the provisions of §§ 2 Third, Fourth
and Fifth in each employee's contract of employment. Section 2
Tenth makes it a misdemeanor for the carrier to fail or refuse to comply28 with the terms of §§ 2 Third, Fourth, Fifth, Seventh and Eighth
See note 27.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

personally or through local union representatives in accordance with the proviso to § 2 Fourth. But this right,
if it exists, is regarded apparently -as at most one to be
heard, since in petitioner's view the power to make settlement by agreement is vested exclusively in the collective
agent. Cf. §§ 2 Sixth and 3 First (i).
The collective agent, as the carrier conceives the statute,
is the "representative [s], designated and authorized to
confer" within the meaning of § 2 Second, without distinction between major and minor disputes. It is likewise
the "representative, for the purposes of this Act," again
without distinction between the two types of dispute, in
the selection of which by "the respective parties" § 2 Third
forbids the other to interfere. It is also "the designated
representative" of the employees with whom, by § 2 Sixth,
the carrier is required to treat concerning grievances in
conference, a provision considered to carry over into § 3
First (i). The latter requires that disputes over grievances
"shall be handled in the usual manner up to and
including
the chief operating officer of the carrier
designated to handle such disputes."
In accordance with this view "either party," within the
further provision of § 3 First (i) authorizing reference of
the dispute to the Adjustment Board "by petition of the
parties or by. either party," refers to the carrier or the collective agent, not to the aggrieved employee acting otherwise than by the collective agent. Hence, "parties" as
used in § 3 First (j) is given similar meaning. Consequently the collective agent also has exclusive power to
submit the dispute to the Board and to represent aggrieved
employees before it.
Petitioner's view has been adopted, apparently, in the
general practice, if not the formally declared policy of the
Adjustment Board. And this, it seems, has been due to
the position taken consistently by the employees' representatives on the Board, over the opposition of carrier

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

733

Opinion of the Court.

representatives."' The unions, apparently, like petitioner
in this case, interpret the Act as not contemplating two
distinct systems for the settlement of disputes, one wholly
collective for major disputes, the other wholly individual
for minor ones. In this view the collective agent becomes
a party to the collective agreement by making it, and its
interest as representative of the collective interest does
not cease when that function ends. It remains a party to
the agreement, as such representative, after it is made;
and consequently, in that capacity and for the protection
of the-collective interest, is concerned with the manner in
which the agreement may be interpreted and applied.
Accordingly, petitioner urges that the statute, both by
its terms and by its purpose, confers upon the collective
agent the same exclusive powel- to deal with grievances,
whether by negotiation and contract, or by presentation
to the Board when agreement fails, as is given with respect
to major disputes. And the aggrieved employee's rights
of individual'action are limited to rights of hearing before
the union and possibly also by the carrier.
We think that such a view of the statute's effects, in so
far as it would deprive the aggrieved employee of effective
voice in any settlement and of individual hearing before
the Board, would be contrary to the clear import of its
provisions and to its policy.
It would be difficult to believe that Congress intended,
by the 1934 amendments, to submerge wholly the individual and minority interests, with all power to .act concerning them, in the collective interest and agency, not only in
forming the contracts which govern their employment
relation," but also in giving effect to them and to all other
29

Cf. Administrative Procedure in Government Agencies, Sen. Doe.

10, Part IV, 77th Cong., 1st Sess., 7.
80 Cf. Steele v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 323 U. S. 192; Tunstall v.
Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen,323 U. S. 210; Wallace Corp. v.
Labor Board, 323 U. S. 248.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

incidents of that relation. Acceptance of such a view
would require the clearest expression of purpose. For this
would mean that Congress had nullified all preexisting
rights of workers to act in relation to their employment,
including perhaps even the fundamental right to consult
with one's employer, except as the collective agent might
permit. Apart from questions of validity, the conclusion
that Congress intended such consequences could be accepted only if it were clear that no other construction
would achieve the statutory aims."
The Act's provisions do not require such a construction.
On the contrary they appear expressly to preclude it. The
proviso to § 2 Fourth in terms reserves the right of "an
employee individually" to confer with management; and
§ 3 First (j) not only requires the Board to give "due
notice of all hearings to the employee . . . involved- in
any dispute submitted . . .," but provides for "parties" to
be heard "either in person, by counsel, or by other representatives, as they may respectively elect."
These provisions would be inapposite if the collective
agent, normally a labor union and an unincorporated association, exclusively were contemplated. Such organizations do not and cannot appear and be heard "in person."
Nor would the provision for notice "to the employee . . .
involved in any dispute" be either appropriate or necessary. If only the collective representative were given
31 In this connection it is important to recall that the Act does not
contemplate the existence of closed shops, to the extent at any rate
that the carrier is forbidden to make such agreements. Cf. § 2 Fourth;
78 Cong. Rec. 12,402; 40 Op. Atty. Gen., No. 59 (Dec. 29, 1942).
Accordingly the interests of unorganized workers and members of
minority unions are concerned in the solution. These are not always
adverse to the interests of the majority or of the designated union.
But they may be so or even hostile. Cf. the authorities cited in
note 30. To regard the statute as so completely depriving persons

thus situated of voice in affairs affecting their very means of livelihood
would raise very serious questions.

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

Opinion of the Court.

rights of submission, notice, appearance and representation, language more aptly designed so to limit those rights
was readily available and was essential for the purpose.
This conclusion accords fully with the terms of the proviso to § 2 Fourth. It appears to be intended as a qualification, in respect to loss of time and free transportation,
of the section's preceding prohibitions against the carrier's
giving financial and other aid to labor organizations and to
82
employees in an effort to influence their union affiliations.
However, the language clearly contemplates also that the
individual employee's right to confer with the management about his own grievance is preserved. There is some
indication in the legislative history to this effect." The
right is so fundamental that we do not believe the purpose
was to destroy it. Cf. 40 Op. Atty. Gen., No. 59, pp. 5, 6
(Dec. 29, 1942); Hughes Tool Co. v. Labor Board, 147 F.
2d 69.
Rights of conference are not identical with rights of
settlement. But the purpose of conference and the duty
to treat is to bring about agreement., The right and the
obligation to share in the negotiations are relevant to their
aim. Conceivably the statute might confer the right to
participate in the negotiations, that is, to be heard before
any agreement is concluded, either upon the collective
agent or upon the aggrieved employee or employees, at
the same time conferring upon the other the final voice
in determining the terms of the settlement. This is, in
effect, the position taken by each of the parties in this case.
But they differ concerning where the final say has been
ndoubtedly was the primary object. The language in the
concluding clause, "while engaged in the business of a labor organiza-

tion," applies literally only to employees travelling upon union business, and has no apparent application to the preceding provision
relating to the individual employee's right to confer with management.
8 Hearings before Committee on Interstate Commerce on H. R.

7650, 73d Cong., 2d Bess., 36, 44, 89.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

vested. Petitioner maintains it has been given to the
union. Respondents say it has been left with them.
In the view we take the Act guarantees to the aggrieved
employee more than merely the right to be heard by the
union and the carrier. We cannot say that the terms of
the proviso to § 2 Fourth and of § 3 First (j) are so limited. Moreover, § 3 First (p) expressly states that the
statutory suit to enforce an award in favor of an aggrieved
employee may be brought by "the petitioner," presumably
the collective agent or by the employee. All of these provisions contemplate effective participation in the statutory
procedures by the aggrieved employee.
His rights, to share in the negotiations, to be heard
before the Board, to have notice, and to bring the enforcement suit, would become rights more of shadow than of
substance if the union, by coming to agreement with the
carrier, could foreclose his claim altogether at the threshold
of the statutory procedure. This would be true in any
case where the employee's ideas of appropriate settlement
might differ from the union's. But the drastic effects in
curtailment of his preexisting rights to act in such matters
for his own protection would be most obvious in two types
of cases: one, where the grievance arises from incidents
of the employment not covered by a collective agreement,
in which presumably the collective interest would be
affected only remotely, if at all; the other, where the interest of an employee not a member of the union and the
collective interest, or that of the union itself, are opposed
or hostile. That the statute does not purport to discriminate between these and other cases furnishes strong
support for believing its purpose was not to vest final and
exclusive power of settlement in the collective agent."
Cf. note 37 and t xt. It is to be doubted that Congress by the
generally inclusive language used concerning grievances intended, for
instance, to give the collective agent exclusive power to settle a

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

737

Opinion of the Court.

We need not determine in this case whether Congress
intended to leave the settlement of grievances altogether
to the individual workers, excluding the collective agent
entirely except as they may specifically authorize it to act
for them, or intended it also to have voice in the settlement as representative of the collective interest. Cf.
Matter of Hughes Tool Co., 56 N. L. R. B. 981, modified
and enforced, Hughes Tool Co. v. Labor Board, supra.
The statute does not expressly exclude grievances from
the collective agent's duty to treat or power to submit
to the Board. Both collective and individual interests
may be concerned in the settlement where, as in this case,
the dispute concerns all members alike, and settlement
hangs exclusively upon a single common issue or cause of
dispute arising from the terms of a collective agreement."
grievance arising independently of the collective agreement, affecting
only nonunion men to whose claim the union and the majority were
hostile.
88 But whether or not the carrier's violation affects 'all the members
of the group immediately and alike, so as to create a present basis
for claims by each, the violation, though resulting from misinterpretation, would constitute a present threat to the similar rights of all
covered by the contract. Cf. Hughes Tool Co. v. Labor Board,
supra,72, 74; 40 Op. Atty. Gen., No. 59, pp. 4, 5 (Dec. 29, 1942).
To leave settlements in such cases ultimately to the several choices
of the members, each according to his own desire without regard to
the effect upon the collective interest, would mean that each affected
worker would have the right to choose his own terms and to determine
the meaning and effect of the collective agreement for himself.
Necessarily, the carrier would be free to join with him in doing so
and thus to bargain with each employee for whatever terms its economic power, pitted against his own, might induce him'to accept.
The result necessarily would be to make, the agreement effective, not
to all alike, but according to whatever varied interpretations individual workers, from equaly varied motivations, might be willing
to accept. To give the collective agent power to make the agreement,
but exclude it from any voice whatever in its interpretation would go
far toward destroying its uniform application.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Those interests combine in almost infinite variety of relative importance in relation to particular grievances, from
situations in which the two are hostile or in which they
bear little or no relation of substance to each other and
opposed to others in which they are identified."8
Congress made no effort to deal specifically with these
variations. 7 But whether or not the collective agent has
rights, independently of the aggrieved employee's authorization, to act as representative of the collective interest
and for its protection in any settlement, whether by agreement or in proceedings before the Board, an award cannot
be effective as against the aggrieved employee unless he
is represented individually in the proceedings in accordance with the rights of notice and appearance or representation given to him by § 3 First (j). Those rights are
separate and distinct from any the collective agent may
have to represent the collective interest. For an award
to affect the employee's rights, therefore, more must be
shown than that the collective agent appeared and purported to act for him. It must appear that in some legally
sufficient way he authorized it to act in his behalf."8
" Depending upon the substantive character of the claim, its
foundation in a collective agreement or otherwise, its intrinsically
substantial or insubstantial nature, the number of employees affected,
the length of time it remains unsettled, the number of claims allowed so
to run, or perhaps other factors, the grievance may be a matter of large
moment to the group as a whole or of little or no concern to it and,
it may be, of either identical or converse importance to the individual
or individuals directly affected.
.7 Congress was concerned primarily with
differences between the
carrier and the employees, not with differences among the latter or
between them, or some of them, and the collective agent. The statute
therefore was not drawn with an eye levelled to these problems, except
as to choice of representatives, cf. § 2 Fourth; § 2 Ninth; and
note 34.
88
Authority might be conferred in whatever ways would be sufficient according to generally accepted or "common law" rules for the
creation of an agency, as conceivably by specific authorization given

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioner's contrary view, as has been indicated, regards the settlement of grievances as part of the collective
bargaining power, indistinguishable from the making of
collective agreements. The assumption ignores the major
difference which the Act has drawn between those functions, both in defining them and in the modes provided for
settlement.
To settle for the future. alone, without reference to or
effect upon the past, is in fact to bargain collectively,
that is, to make a collective agreement. That authority is conferred independently of the power to
deal with grievances, as part of the power to contract
"concerning rates of pay, rules, or working conditions."
It includes the power to make a new agreement settling
for the future a dispute concerning the coverage or
meaning of a preexisting collective agreement. For
the collective bargaining power is not exhausted by
being once exercised; it covers changing the terms
of 'an existing agreement as well as making one in the
first place.
But it does not cover changing them with retroactive
effects upon accrued rights or claims. For it is precisely
the difference between making settlements effective only
for the future and making them effective retroactively to
conclude rights claimed as having already accrued which
marks the statutory boundary between collective bargaining and the settlement of grievances. The latter by
explicit definition includes the "interpretation or application" of existing agreements. To regard this as part of
the collective bargaining power identifies it with making
new agreements having only prospective operation; and
orally or in writing to settle each grievance, by general authority
given to settle such grievances as might arise, or by assenting to such
authority by becoming a member of a union and thereby accepting a
provision in its constitution or rules authorizing it to make such
settlements.

740

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

by so doing obliberates the statute's basic distinction
3 9
between those functions.
The Brotherhood had power, therefore, as collective
agent to make an agreement with the carrier, effective for
the fu'ture only, to settle the question of starting time,
and that power was derived from the Act itself. In dealing within its scope, the carrier was not required to look
further than the Act's provisions to ascertain the union's
authority. But it does not follow, as petitioner assumes,
that it had the same right to deal with the union concerning the past. That aspect of the dispute was not part of
the collective agent's exclusive statutory authority.
If to exclude it severs what otherwise might be considered organic, the severance clearly is one which Congress
could make and is one we think it has made, by its definition of grievances and by the provisions for individual
participation in their settlement. If, moreover, as petitioner urges, this may make the settlement less convenient
than if power to deal with grievances were vested exclu89 The distinction holds true although "interpretation or application" may look to the future as well as the past, as it often does. It
goes to the source of the right asserted, whether in an antecedent
agreement or only to one presently sought. The difference is important for other issues as well as those presently involved, e. g., application of statutes of limitations.
The, distinction is not to be ignored or wiped out merely because a
particular dispute or agreement may look both to the past and to the
future. The special procedure for settling grievances was created
because it, was intended they. should be disposed of differently from
disputes over "rates of pay, rules, or working conditions," which were
committed exclusively to the collective agent's authority. One important difference preserved the aggrieved employee's rights to participate in all stages of the settlement. Congress therefore, when it
preserved those rights, contemplated something more than cillective
representation and action to make the settlement effective for the
past. It follows that the individual employee's rights cannot be
nullified merely by agreement between the carrier and the union.
They are statutory rights, which he may exercise independently or
authorize the union to exercise in his behalf.

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

Opinion- of the Court.

sively in the collective agent, that consequence may be
admitted. But it cannot outweigh the considerations of
equal or greater force which we think Congress has taken
into account in preserving the individual workman's right
to have a voice amounting to more than mere protest in
the settlement of claims arising out of his employment.
From the fact that the Brotherhood occupied the position of collective bargaining agent and'as such had power
to deal for the future, therefore, petitioner was not entitled to make any assumption concerning its authority
to settle the claims accrued for the past or to represent
the claimants exclusively in proceedings before the Board.
Accordingly for the union to act in their behalf with conclusive effect, authorization by them over and above any
authority given by the statute was essential.
III
Petitioner urges that, apart from the statute, the facts
of record show as a matter of law that respondents authorized the Brotherhood to settle the claims, to submit
them to the Board, and to represent them in its proceedings. Respondents deny that authority in any of these
respects was given, either by individual authorization or
by virtue of the Brotherhood's constitution and rules;
and they insist that the record presents these questions
as issues of fact.
Stripped of its statutory influences, petitioner's argument comes in substance to this. It is undisputed that
from August 27, 1934, to November 23, 1936, when the
complaint in Docket No. 3537 was filed, respondents made
out time slips and filed many complaints with the carrier's
local officials through local officers of the Brotherhood on
account of departures from the schedule of Article 6. The
question of the article's applicability was a matter of discussion between the Brotherhood and company officials
from the time of the transfer in 1934. Respondents admit

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

having authorized the Brotherhood, at a meeting of their
local lodge, to file the complaint in Docket No. 3537 and
that this complaint was filed in full compliance with the
Brotherhood's constitution and rules. The settlement of
October, 1938, and the consequent withdrawal of the claim
in Docket No. 3537 were made by the same official, Williams, whom respondents had authorized to file the claim
and with whom, in effect, both the collective agreement
and the Brotherhood's regulations required petitioner to
deal concerning the matter.'0 Moreover, the complaint
in Docket No. 7324, filed in May, 1939, was fied by Williams and in the same manner as the complaint in Docket
No. 3537.
From these facts petitioner concludes that respondents
authorized the Brotherhood to settle the claims and to
represent them before the Board. In its view, all of these
transactions related to the same subject matter, namely,
whether Article 6 was applicable in the Whiting yard, the
only difference being that the relief sought in the two
proceedings was not the same; and that difference is not
material.
'0 The collective agreement, of which Article 6 is a part, provides:
"Any controversy arising as to the application of the rules herein

agreed upon . . . shall be taken up . . .' by the general grievance

committee with the general superintendent of the carrier, "and in the
event of their failure to agree upon a satisfactory settlement, the
Committee may appeal to the Vice President." (Emphasis added.)
Petitioner says this provision bound it to deal only with the general
committee.
Petitioner also relies upon Rule 10 of the Btotherhood's constitution and general rules as imposing the same duty:.
"Whatever action may be taken by the General Grievance Committee or Board of Adjustment of any system within the meaning bf
the above General Rules shall be law to the Lodges on that road until
and unless reversed by the Board of Appeals, and if any member refuses to vote or abide by the action of such General Grievance Committee or Board of Adjustment, he shall be expelled. 1rom the Brotherhood for violation of obligation."
See also note 8.

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

Opinion of the Court.

Respondents differ concerning the effect of these facts
and others they set forth. They allege that under the
Brotherhood's constitution and rules neither Williams and
Johnson nor the general grievance committee could "revise
or change a general wage 'schedule' or agreement conCerning rates of pay, nor working conditions, unless authorized
to do'so by a majority vote of the lodges, or by a majority
vote of the membership in the system"; that claims of
individual, members for back compensation could not be
released without -specific authority given individually;
that no such authority was given; and that the Icarrier
had knowledge of these limitations. They further allege
that Williams and Johnson failed to notify them of the
settlement, as the by-laws required; o"and deny that they
knew of the settlement, the proceedings in Docket 7324
or the award until after the award was made, when they
promptly repudiated it. "2 They say accordingly that,
Williams acted without authority from them directly' or
through the Brotherhood's regulations in submitting 6nd
presenting the claims; and that the award is invalid no%
only 'for this reason but also because no notice of the
proceeding was given to them.
It is apparent that the parties are at odds upon the
inferences to be drawn from the facts and their legal
effects rather than upon the facts themselves. Respondents deny, and petitioner apparently does not claim, that
they at any time individually and specifically authorized
the Brotherhood or its officials to compromise their claims
for money due or to act for them exclusively in Board
proceedings concerning those claims. If there is an issue
4"This, they say, was because Williams did not regard tie agreement as waiving the .money claims, since he did not give them the
required notice and shortly after the-settlement filed the money
claims with the Board. Cf. note 6.
2 Respondents also attack the settlement because it was not signed
by the third member of the grievance committee, the local grievance
chairman. This objection borders on the frivolous.

-744

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of'the Court.

325 U. S.

in this respect it is obviously one of fact concerning which
evidence and findings would be required.
The real issues, as we view the record, come down to
whether respondents assented, in legal effect, to the final
settlem ent of their claims by the union or to exclusive
representation by it in any of the following ways: (1) by
making complaints through local union officials; (2) by
authorizing the Brotherhood to submit the complaint in
Docket No. 3537; (3) by virtue of the Brotherhood's
regulations; (4) by virtue of the collective agreement.
The collective agreement could not be effective to deprive the employees of their individual rights. Otherwise
those rights would be brought within the collective bargaining power by a mere exercise of that power, contrary
to the purport and effect of the Act as excepting them from
its scope and reserving them to the individuals aggrieved.
In view of that reservation the Act clearly does not contemplate that the rights saved may be nullified merely
by agreement between the carrier and the union.
Nor can we say as a matter of law that the mere
making of complaints through local Brotherhood officials
amounted to final authorization to the union to settle the
claims or represent the employees before the Board.
Neither the statute nor the union's regulations purported
to give these effects to that conduct. The time slips
apparently were filed by the employees themselves. The
record shows only the general fact that complaints concerning departures were made through local officials.
More than this would be. required to disclose unequivocal
intention to surrender the individual's right to participate
in the settlement and to give the union final voice in making it together with exclusive power to represent him
before the Board. The making of complaints in this
manner was only preliminary to negotiation and equivocal
at the most.
Nor can we say, in the present state of the record, that
the union's regulations unequivocally authorized the gen-

ELGIN,: J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

Opinion of the Court.

eral grievance committee or its chairman either to settle
the claims or to act as exclusive representative before the
Board. The parties rely upon apparently conflicting
provisions or, if they are not actually in conflict, then upon
different ones, the applicability of some of which is in
dispute. Thus respondents rely upon Rule 3, which
forbids change in existing agreements without the required
vote of local lodges or system membership, and petitioner
says the rule is not applicable to the dispute in this case.
Whether or not the rule is applicable is a question of fact
to be determined ,in the light of whatever evidence may be
presented to sustain the one view or the other. Conceivably it may be intended to apply only where no grievance
is involved or to the settlement of grievinces and other
disputes as well. But we cannot say, in the absence of
further light than is now available, that on its face thq
rule bears only the one construction or the other.
Similar difficulties arise in connection with the other
regulations. Only some of them. are set forth in the
printed record, although the full constitution and ruleswere made a part of the record proper by petitioner. The
rules and regulations do not purport to require members
to negotiate and settle their grievances only through the
union. The general committee can act only when a grievance is referred to it by a local lodge. The rules are extensive, parts of them appear to involve possible conflict,
the parties differ concerning their effects, and the mode of
their operation quite obviously may be largely affected
by the manner' in which they are applied in practice.
Their construction and legal effect are matters of some
complexity and should not'be undertaken in a vacuum
apart from the facts relating to their application in practice. Because both factual and legal inferences would be
involved in determining the effects of the regulations to
bring about a- surrender of the individual rights to take
part in the settlement and in the Board's proceedings,

746-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

those effects cannot be determined as a matter of law in
the first instance here.
Nor can we say as a matter-of law that authorizing the
submission in Docket No. 3537, without more, constituted
authorization either to make the agreement of settlement
-or to represent the employees in Docket No. 7324. The
matter requires some explication in the light of the view
we have taken concerning the rights of an aggrieved employee in the settlement of grievances. In that view no
valid settlement can be made unless he agrees. If settlement by agreement after negotiation fails, he has the right
to submit the dispute to the Board for decision. If it is
submitted he has rights of notice, hearing and individual
representation according to his choice.
All these rights are separate and distinct, though closely
related. A surrender or delegation of one would not result
in surrender of the others as a matter of law or necessarily as a matter of fact. Whether in particular circumstances it might do so would depend upon whether they
were considered sufficient to disclose such an intent."3 It
follows that authority to concur in an agreement of settlement does not imply without more authority to represent the employee in Board proceedings, or the latter the
former. This is true when the authority is given to the
collective.agent as it is when it is given to another. That
circumstance is not controlling. It only bears as'one fac43 In other words, the aggrieved employee has the right to delegate
his power to concur in an agreement of settlement, but at the same
time to reserve his rights to make submission to the Board and of
appearance and representation before it, or conversely to reserve his
right to concur and delegate the rights of submission and representation. To what extent he may delegate one or all depends therefore
upon the intent- with which he makes the particular delegation as
disclosed by the circumstances in which it is made, or gives evidence
of such intent by his conduct, and this will be a question of fact
unless the circumstances so clearly show he intended to make the
delegation claimed that no other conclusion is possible.

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

Opinion of the Court.

tor in the total situation. Accordingly in this case the
mere fact that the respondents authorized the union to
make the submission and to represent them in Docket No.
3537 did not imply authority to make the settlement agreement or to represent them in the quite different later
proceedings in Docket No. 7324.
The record does not show conclusively that prior to the
submission in Docket No. 3537 the employees had finally
committed the whole matter of their claims into the
union's hands in such a manner as to constitute a surrender of their individual rights to concur in any agreement of settlement. That conclusion is not justified
merely from the fact that the union participated in,
negotiations with the carrier.
Moreover, the authorization, to act in Docket No. 3537,
obviously was given after efforts to secure settlement b
negotiation and agreement were considered to have failed
Only then was anyone entitled to make the submission.
Accordingly that authorization was entirely consistent
with the ideaf that no further negotiations would be had,
and therefore, without more, also with the idea that no
authority to negotiate further wasl implied. It may be
that upon a full hearing concerning the course and scope
of the negotiations prior to this submission, the evidence
will justify a conclusion that the respondents had authorized the union to act finally for them. But the record in
its present state does not justify that conclusion as a
matter of law."'
It is true that respondents' positi6n concerning the consequences
of their authorization to make the submission in Docket No. 3537 is
not altogether consistent. For in claiming that they authorized submission only to determine' the applicability of Article 6 for the future,
and not to determine the question of retroactivity so as to establish
or conclude adversely the basis for their individual monetary claims,
they appear to ignore, as does petitioner in some of its contentions,
the distinction between collective bargaining and the settlement of
grievances as the Act defines them. Cf. note 39 and text. I If their

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

It may be true also that if Docket No. 3537 had been
carried to decision the award would have been effective
to determine the rights of the parties. But no award
was made in that proceeding. It was terminated and the
claim was withdrawn. Whether or not that action or
other events occurring later were effective to terminate
the authority given to submit for the Board's determination the issue which was the foundation of respondents'
monetary claims or whether that authority continued in
spite of the changed conditions are questions also to be
determined from a factual evaluation of the entire situation, essentially preliminary to determination of legal
effects, which we cannot make.
Since upon the total situation we cannot say as a matter
of law that respondents had authorized the Brotherhood
to act for them in Docket No. 7324, whether in submitting
the cause or in representing them before the Board; since
it is conceded also that they were not given notice of the
proceedings otherwise than as the union had knowledge of
them; and since further they have denied that they had
knowledge of the proceedings and of the award until after
it was entered, the question whether the award was effective in any manner to affect their rights must be determined in the further proceedings which are required. The
crucial issue in this respect, of course, will be initially
whether respondents had authorized the Brotherhood in
any legally sufficient manner to represent them, individually, in the Board's proceedings in Docket No. 7324.
purpose was merely to authorize settlement for the future, without
retroactive effects, the submission to the Adjustment Board was
misconceived, since it has no power to render a decision requiring
the carrier or the union to make a new agreement. Its only authority,
under the Act, is to determine what they have agreed upon previously
or, outside the scope of a collective agreement, what rights the carrier
and its employees may have acquired by virtue of other incidents
of the employment relation. Such an issue by its very nature looks
to the past, though it may also seek compliance for the future.

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

FmRNxF'Ui

749

, J., dissenting.

Until that question is determined, it is not necessary
for us to pass upon the important issue concerning the
finality and conclusive effect of the award, or to determine
the validity and legal effect of the compromise agreement.
We accordingly express no opinion concerning those
issues.
The judgment is affirmed. The cause is remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JusTIcE FRANKFURTER, dissenting.

On July- 27, 1934, the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen made an agreementwith petitioner, Elgin, Joliet and
Eastern Railway Company, affecting its yardmen whereby
the starting time for switching crews was fixed. The respondents are employed as switching crews in the Whiting,
Indiana yard of petitioner. They are all members of the
Brotherhood. Observance by petitioner of this yard
agreement was called into question. After abortive conferences for the adjustment of these claims between
officials of petitioner and of the Brotherhood, C. H. Williams, General Chairman of the Brotherhood General
Grievance Committee, filed a complaint covering several
grievances with the National Railroad Adjustment Board;
created by the Railway Labor Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 1185,
45 U. S. C. § 151 et seq., to compel petitioner's compliance
with the agreed time. In November, 1936, the cases were
duly docketed. Before they came to be heard, petitioner,
on October 28, 1938, proposed settlement of numerous
claims against it by the Brotherhood then pending before
the Adjustment Board. Among these claims was the dispute as to starting time. Petitioner agreed for a'ninetyday trial period, beginning November 15, 1938, to abide
by the time fixed in the 1934 agreement. But its offer"
was conditioned "on a complete settlement and withdrawal
of all cases now ,pending either before the board, or under
discussion with 'this office . . . and it is further under-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

stood that in the event these settlements are accepted that
the claims listed in this'letter cover all claims of a similar
nature, and that no other claims covering the same or like
situations will be presented when such claims arise from
causes occurring prior to the date of this settlement." On
October 31, 1938, settlement on these terms was accepted
for the yardmen by Williams, General Chairman, and
S. F. Johnson, the Secretary of the Brotherhood's General
Grievance Committee. On the same day and upon
request of the Brotherhood and Railway, the cases were
removed from its docket by the Adjustment Board.
Later the Brotherhood filed with the Adjustment Board
a second complaint claiming money damages on behalf
of its members for violation of the 1934 agreement. The
Board, by formal award, denied the claim on the ground
that the "evidence shows that the parties to the agreement disposed of the claim here made -by the letter of
carrier dated October 28th, 1938, accepted by employes
October 31, 1938."
Respondents then filed this suit in the District Court
for damages. Petitioner invoked the 1938 settlement and
the Board's award thereon as a bar, and moved for summary judgment. Respondents resisted this motion by
denying the authority of the Brotherhood officials to present their claims to the Board or to agree to the settlement.
The District Court gave summary judgment for the petitioner which was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit on the ground that the question
of authority of the Brotherhood ofcials raised an issue of
fact for trial by the District Court. 140 F. 2d 488. The
correctness of this ruling is the important question now
before us. 323 U. S. 690.
We have had recent occasion to consider the Railway
Labor Act in other aspects. Switchmen's Union v. Board,
320 U. S. 297; General Committee v. M.-K.-T. R. Co., 320
U. S. 323; General Committee v. Southern Pacific Co.,

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

FRANKFURTER,

751,

J., dissenting.

320 U. S. 338. The complexities which the problems in
those cases laid bare, make clear that the specific question
immediately before us cannot be isolated from the scheme
and structure of the Railway Labor Act as an entirety.
The Act in turn cannot be appreciated apart from the
environment out of which it came and the purposes which
it was designed to serve.
From the point of view of industrial relations our railroads are largely a thing apart. The nature and history of
the industry, the experience with unionization of the roads,
the concentration of authority on both sides of the industry in negotiating collective agreements, the intimacy
of relationship between the leaders of the two parties
shaped by a long course of national, or at least regional,
negotiations, the intricate technical aspects of these agreements and the specialized knowledge for which their interpretation and application call, the practical interdependence of seemingly separate collective agreements-these
and similar considerations admonish against mutilating
the comprehensive and complicated system governing
railroad industrial relations by episodic utilization of
inapposite judicial remedies.
The Railway Labor Act of 1934 is primarily an instrument of government. As such, the view that is held of
the particular world for which the Act was designed will
largely guide the direction of judicial interpretation of
the Act. The railroad world for which the Railway Labor
Act was designed has thus been summarized by one of
the most discerning students of railroad labor relations:
"The railroad world is like a state within a state. Its
population of some three million, if we include the families
of workers, has its own customs and its own vocabulary,
and lives according to rules of its own making. . . . This
state within a state has enjoyed a high degree of internal
peace for two generations; despite the divergent interests
of its component parts, the reign of law has been firmly

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

established." Garrison, The Railroad Adjustment Board:
A Unique Administrative Agency (1937) 46 Yale L. J.
567, 568-69.
The Railway Labor Act of 1934 is an expression of that
"reign of law" and provides the means for maintaining
it. Nearly half a century of experimental legislation lies
behind the Act. It is fair to say that every stage in the
evolution of this railroad labor code was progressively
infused with the purpose of securing self-adjustment between the effectively organized railroads and the equally
effective railroad unions and, to that end, of establishing
facilities for such self-adjustment by the railroad community of its own industrial controversies. These were
certainly not expected to be solved by ill-adapted judicial
interferences, escape from which was indeed one of the
driving motives in establishing specialized machinery of
mediation and arbitration. Government intervention of
any kind was contemplated only as a last resort for the
avoidance of calamitous strikes.
The landmarks in this history, tersely summarized, are
the meager act of October 1, 1888, 25 Stat. 501, providing
for voluntary arbitration; the Erdman Act of June 1,
1898, 30 Stat. 424, securing government mediation and
arbitration, but applicable only to those actually engaged
in train service operations; the Newlands Act of July 15,
1913, 38 Stat. 103, providing for a permanent board of
mediation and also a board of arbitration; the Adamson
Act of September 3, 1916, 39 Stat. 721, as to which see
Wilson v. New, 243 U. S.332; Order No. 8 of February
21, 1918, formulating the labor policy of the Government
after the-United States took over the railroads, see Hines,
War History of American Railroads (1928), p. 155 et seq.;
the more elaborate machinery established by Title III
of the Transportation Act of 1920, 41 Stat. 456, 469, for
adjustments of these controversies, which in its turn was
repealed and replaced by the Railway Labor Act of May

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

FRANKFURTER,

753

J., dissenting.

20, 1926, 44 Stat. 577, legislation agreed upon between the
railroads and the Brotherhoods and probably unique in
having been frankly accepted as such by the President
and Congress.' The actual operation of this legislation
partly disappointed the hopes of its sponsors, and led, for
the still greater promotion of self-government by the
railroad industry, to the Act of 1934.
The assumption as well as the aim of that Act is a
process of permanent conference and negotiation between
the carriers on the one hand and the employees through
their unions on the other. Section 2, First, provides "It
shall be the duty of all carriers . . . and employees to
exert every ieasonable effort to make and maintain agreements concerning rates of pay, rules, and working conditions, and to settle all disputes, whether arising out of the
application of such agreements or otherwise . . ." Section 2, Second, provides "All disputes between a carrier
. . . and its . . . employees shall be considered, and, if
possible, decided, with all expedition, in conference between representatives designated and authorized so to
confer, respectively, by the carrier . . . and by the employees thereof interested in the dispute." According to
§ 2, Sixth, "In case of a dispute . .. . arising out of grievances or out of the interpretation or application of agreements concerning rates of pay, rules, or working conditions,
it shall be the duty of the designated representative or
representatives of such carrier . . and of such employees, within ten days after the receipt of notice of a
desire on the part of either party to confer in respect to
such dispute, to specify a time and place at which such
'In his message of December 8, 1925, to Congress, President
Coolidge stated: "I am informed that the railroad managers and
their employees have reached a substantial agreement as to what
legislation is necessary to regulate and improve their relationship.
Whenever they bring forward such proposals, which seen sufficient
also to protect the interests of the public, they should be enacted
into law." 67 Cong. Rec. 463.

754i

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER,

conference shall be held

J., dissenting.

. . ."

325 U. S.

Section 3, First (i)-directs

that disputes growing out of grievances or the interpretation or application of agreements concerning rates of pay,
rules, or working conditions be handled by conference. and
negotiation, including resort if necessary to the chief operating officer of the carrier. Compliance with these
statutory duties is a prerequisite to appeal to the National
Railroad Adjustment Board. The purpose of this legislation is the exertion of maximum pressure toward amicable
settlement between the parties. Resort to the Adjustment Board is the last step in the statutory process.
In the controversy. before us an amicable adjustment
between the parties--the goal of the legislation-had been
achieved by pursuing the course which the Act of 1934
directed. We are now asked to nullify this settlement,
arrived at after prolonged negotiations, and to open the
door of litigation to new discords. Not only is it sought
torevive the dispute and to restore it t6 the status it had
before the Adjustment Board more than eight years ago.
The respondents claim that after all these years they have
a right to repudiate their bargaining agents and to try the
authority of these agents as though this were a conventional lawsuit involving the responsibility of a principal
for the conduct of his agent.
As members of their Brotherhood, respondents were of
course familiar with the procedure whereby the union
speaks for them both to the Railroad and before the
Adjustment Board. The Brotherhood's "Constitution
and General Rules," which the respondents made part of
their case below, are clear about this. Rule No. 7 declares
that, after a grievance has been transmitted to a General
Grievance Committee, that Committee "shall have .power
to alter, amend, add to or strike out . . . any part or all
of any complaint or claim submitted to the committee,
subject to appeal to the entire General Committee and/or
Board of Appeals. A general grievance Committee may

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

authorize their chairman to handle all grievances received
from local lodges with the management for settlement . . ." Respondents cannot deny that the- Brotherhood officials had authority to seek compliance by the
railroad with the starting time agreement through the
Adjustment Board. In view of the sweeping power of
the General Grievance Committee to settle grievances, the
settlement that was made on behalf of. the Brotherhood
is invulnerable. The attack on the settlement because
it was signed by only two of the three members of the"
Committee is frivolous. Such procedure is not at all
unusual. Williams and Johnson settled other grievances
in like manner, many of them involving claims for money.
The Brotherhood's own rules sanction such action in that
the Committee may authorize the Chairman to handle
all grievances,
This is not a simple little case about an agent's authority. Demands of the employees' representative imply
not only authority from those for whom he speaks but
the duty of respect from those to whom he speaks. The
carrier is under a legal duty to treat with the union's
representative for the purposes of the Railway Labor Act.
Section 2, Ninth; see Virginian R. Co. v. System Federation, 300 U. S. 515. We do not have the ordinary case
where a third person dealing with an ostensible agent must
at his peril ascertain the agent's authority. In such a
situation a person may protect himself by refusing to
deal. Here petitioner has a duty to deal. If petitioner
refuses to deal with the officials of the employees' union
by challenging their authority it does so under pain of
penalty. If it deals with them on the'reasonable belief
that the grievance officials of the Brotherhood are acting
in accordance with customary union procedure, settlements thus made ought not to be at the hazard of being
jettisoned by future litigation. To allow such settlements to be thus set aside is to obstruct the smooth

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

working of the Act. It undermines the confidence so
indispensable to adjustment by negotiation, which is the
vital object of the Act. See Division 525, Order of Railway Conductors v. Gorman, 133 F. 2d 273, 278.
But respondents claim that irrespective of the authority
of the Brotherhood officials to handle claims for the enforcement of the agreed starting time, Williams did not
have authority to present to the Adjustment Board the
claim for damages due to respondents for petitioner's alleged past violation of the starting-time agreement. They
insist that there is no relation between a claim for money
resulting from the violation of a collective agreement and
a claim for the enforcement of a collective agreement.
But surely this is to sever that which is organic. It wholly
disregards the nature of such a collective*agreement, its
implications and its ramifications. In passing on the
claim for money damages arising out of the yard agreement, any tribunal would have to examine, interpret and
apply the collective agreement precisely as it would if the
issue were the duty to observe the agreement in the future.
An award based on the application of the collective agreement would, quite apart from technical questions of res
judicata, affect future claims governed by the same collective agreement whatever the particular forms in which
the claims may be cast. To find here merely an isolated,
narrow question of law as to past liability is to disregard
the ties which bind the money controversy to its railroad
environment. Such a view is blind to the fact that "all
members of the class or craft to which an aggrieved employee belongs have a real~and legitimate interest in the
dispute. Each of them, at some later time, may be involved in a similar dispute." 40 Ops. Atty. Gen., No. 59
(Dec. 29, 1942) pp. 4-5. Indeed, such a view leaves out
of consideration not only the significant bearing of the
construction of the same collective agreement on parts of
the carrier's lines not immediately before the Court. It

I ;

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

FRANKPURTER,

757

J., dissenting.

overlooks the relation of a provision in a collective agreement with one railroad to comparable provisions of
collective agreements with other roads.
To allow the issue of authorization after an award by
the Board to be relitigated in the courts is inimical to the
internal government of the Brotherhood. Union membership generates complicated relations. Policy counsels
against judicial intrusion upon these relations. If resort
to courts is at all available, it certainly should not disregard and displace the arrangements which the members
of the organization voluntarily establish for their reciprocal interests and by which they bound themselves to be
governed. The rights and duties of membership are governed by the rules of the Brotherhood. Rule 10 concerns
objections to official action: "Whatever action may be
taken by the general grievance committee . . . shall be

law to the lodges on that road until the next meeting of
the board of appeals, and if any member refuses to vote
or abide by the action of such general grievance committee
or board of adjustment he shall be expelled from the
Brotherhood for violation of obligation." To ask courts
to adjudicate the meaning of the Brotherhood rules and
customs without preliminary resort to remedial proceedings within the Brotherhood is to encourage influences
of disruption within the union instead of fostering these
unions as stabilizing forces. Rules of fraterna'l orgaizations, with all the customs and assumptions that give th'eni
life, cannot be treated as though they were ordinary legal
documents of settled meaning. "Freedom of litigation,
for instance, is hardly so essential a part of the democratic'
process that the courts should be asked to strike down
*all hindrances to its pursuit. The courts are as wise, to
take an example of this, in adhering to the general requirement that all available remedies within the union be
exhausted before redress is sought before them as they ae
unwise in many of the exceptions they have grafted upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

this rule." Witmer, Civil Liberties and the Trade Union
(1941) 50 Yale L. J. 621, 630. To an increasing extent,
courts require dissidents within a union to seek interpretation of the organization's rules and to seek redress for
grievances arising out of them before appropriate union
tribunals. Compare Norfolk & Western R. Co. v. Harris,
260 Ky. 132, 84 S. W. 2d 69; Agrippino v. Perrotti,270
Mass. 55, 169 N. E. 793; Snay v. Lovely, 276 Mass. 159,
176 N. E. 791; Webb v. Chicago, R. I. & G. R. Co., 136
S. W. 2d 245.
The Railway Labor Act, as the product of long experience, is a complicated but carefully devised scheme for
adjusting the relations between the two powerful groups
constituting the railroad industry. It misconceives the
legislation and mutilates its provisions to read into it common law notions for the settlement of private rights. If,
when a dispute arises over the meaning of a collective
agreement, the legally designated railroad bargaining unit
cannot negotiate with the carrier without first obtaining
,the specific authorization of every individual member of
the union who may be financially involved in the dispute,
it not only weakens the union by encouraging divisive
elements. It gravely handicaps the union in its power
to bargain responsibly. That is not all. Not to allow
the duly elected officers of an accredited union to speak
for its membership in accordance with the terms of the
internal government of the union and tp permit any member of the union to pursue his own interest under a collective agreement undermines the very conception of a
collective agreement: It reintroduces the destructive individualism in the reltions between the railroads and their
workers which it was the very purpose of the Railway
Labor Act to eliminate' To allow every individual worker
to base individual claims on his private notions of the
scope and meaning of a collective agreement intended to
lay down uniform standards for all those covered by the

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
711

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

collective agreement, is to permit juries and courts to make
varying findings and give varying constructions to an
agreement inevitably couched in words or phrases reflecting the habits, usage and understanding of the railroad
industry. Thus will be introduced those dislocating differentiations for workers in the same craft which have
always been among the most fertile provocations to friction, strife, and strike in the railroad world. The Railway Labor Act, one had supposed, would be construed so
as to reduce and not to multiply these seeds of strife.
In order to avoid mischievous opportunities for the
assertion of individual claims by shippers as against the
common interest of uniformity in construing railroad
tariffs, this Court so construed the Interstate Commerce
Act in the famous Abilene Cotton Oil case, 204 U. S. 426,
as to withdraw from the shipper the historic common law
right to sue in the courts for charging unreasonable rates.
It required resort to the Interstate Commerce Commission
because not to do so would result in the impairment of the
general purpose of that Act. It did so because even
though theoretically this pCourt could ultimately review
such adjudications imbedded in the various judicial
judgments-if a shipper could go to a court in the first
instance-there would be considerations of fact which
this Court could not possibly disentangle so as to secure
the necessary uniformity. The beneficent rule in the
Abilene Cotton Oil case was evolved by reading the Interstate Commerce Act not as though it were a collection
of abstract words, but by treating it as an instrument of
government growing out of long experience with certain
evils and addressed to their correction. Chief Justice
White's opinion in that case was characterized by his
successor, Chief Justice Taft, as a "conspicuous instance
of his unusual and remarkable power and facility in statesmanlike interpretation of statute law." 257 U. S. xxv.
The provisions of the Railway Labor Act do not even

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

necessitate such a creative act of adjudication as this
Court in the Abilene case unanimously accomplished.
The Railway Labor Act contains no embarrassing specific
provision, as was true of § 22 of the Interstate Commerce
Act, 24 Stat. 379, 387, calling for subordination to the
main purpose of the legislation. The considerations
making for harmonious adjustment of railroad industrial
relations through the machinery designed by Congress in
the Railway Labor Act are disregarded by allowing that
machinery to be by-passed and by introducing dislocating
differentiations through individual resort to the courts
in the application of a collective agreement.
Since the claim before the Adjustment Board was for
money, there remains the question whether its disposition
was open to judicial review. The Railway Labor Act commands that the Board's "awards shall be final and binding upon both parties to the dispute, except insofar as
they shall contain a money award." •§ 3, First (in). But
the determination here in controversy does not "contain
a money award" so as to be excepted from the final and
binding effect given other awards. The obvious meaning
of "money award" is an award directing the payment of
money, not one denying payment. See Berryman v. Pullman Co., 48 F. Supp. 542. We are pointed to no aids to
construction that should withhold us from giving the familiar term "money award" any other than its ordinary
meaning as something that awards money. This construction is confirmed by comparison with the provisions
of the Interstate Commerce Act dealing with reparation
orders. Since both Acts came out of the same Congressional Committees one finds, naturally enough, that the
provisions for enforcement and review of the Adjustment
Board's awards were based on those for reparation orders
by the Interstate Commerce Commission. Compare
Railway Labor Act, § 3, First (p) with Interstate Commerce Act, as amended by § 5 of the Hepburn Act, 34

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA.

761

Syllabus.

711

Stat. 584, 590, 49 U. S. C. § 16 (1), (2). If a carrier fails
to comply with a reparation order, as is true of non-compliance with an Adjustment Board award, the complainant
may sue in court for enforcement; the Commission's order
and findings and evidence then become prima facie evidence of the facts stated. But a denial of a money claim
by the Interstate Commerce Commission bars the door to
redress in the courts. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Brady,
288 U. S. 448; I. C. C. v. United States, 289 U. S. 385, 388;
Terminal Warehouse v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 297 U. S.
500, 507.
The Railway Labor Act precludes review of the Board's
award; and, since authorization of the Broth-erhood officials to make the settlement is not now open to judicial
inquiry, the judgment calls for reversal.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR.
JUSTICE JACKSON join in this dissent.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. ARIZONA

EX REL.

SULLIVAN, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ARIZONA.

No. 56.

Argued March 26, 27, 1945.-Decided June 18, 1945.

1. State power to regulate the length of railroad trains is not curtailed or superseded by § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act (paragraphs 10-17) of itself, and in the absence of administrative implementation by the Interstate Commerce Commission; nor by
provisions of the Safety Appliance Act for brakes on trains; nor
by the provision of § 25 of Part I of the Interstate Commerce Act
permitting the Commission to order the installation of train stop
and control devices. Pp. 765-766.
In enacting legislation within its constitutional authority over
interstate commerce, Congress will not be deemed to have intended
-to strike down a state statute designed to protect the health and
safety of the public unless its purpose to do so is clearly manifested;
or unless the state law, in terms or in its practical administration,

