MINE WORKERS v. EAGLE-PICHER CO. 335
327

Statement of the Case.

cut of petroleum. Even assuming that if Gessler had
discovered the compound he would be entitled to a patent,
he did not discover it. Reading a list and selecting a
known compound to meet known requirements is no more
ingenious than selecting the last piece to put into the

last opening in a jig-saw puzzle.

Itis not invention.

The

judgment below is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLAck and MR. JusTICE DOUGLAS concur

in the result.

INTERNATIONAL UNION OF MINE, MILL &
SMELTER WORKERS, LOCALS NOS. 15, 17, 107,
108 and 111, (C. I. 0.) ET AL. V. EAGLE-PICHER

MINING & SMELTING CO.

ET, AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 337.

Argued January 31, 1945.-Decided May 28, 1945.

1. Labor unions which intervened in the Circuit Court of Appeals in
support of a petition by the National Labor Relations Board to
revoke an enforcement order and to remand the cause to the Board,
held to have standing to seek review of a denial of the petition,
even though the Board elected not to seek review. P. 338.
2. The National Labor Relations Board, having sought and obtained a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals for enforcement
of an order of the Board, is not entitled as of right-in the absence
of fraud or mistake chargeable to the respondent, and after expiration of the term of court at which the decree was entered-to have
remedial provisions of the decree set aside and the case remanded to
it for prescription of relief which it deems more appropriate to
effectuate the policy of the National Labor Relations Act. P. 339.
3. American Chain & Cable Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 142
F. 2d 909, disitinguished. P. 342.
141 F. 2d 843, affirmed.

CERTIORARI,

323 U. S. 695, to review a decree dismissing

a petition of the National Labor Relations Board to vacate

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

part of a decree of enforcement and to remand the cause
to the Board.
Mr. Louis N. Wolf, with whom Mr. Sylvan Bruner was
on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Alvin J. Rockwell, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Mr. A. Norman Somers and Miss Ruth Weyand
were on the brief, for the National Labor Relations Board;
and Mr. John G. Madden, with whom Messrs. A. C. Wallace, H. W. Blair, James E. Burke and Ralph M. Russell
were on the brief, for the Eagle-Picher Mining & Smelting
Co. et al., respondents.
Mif. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.

The question presented is whether the National Labor
Relations Board after seeking and obtaining a court order
of enforcement of its own order, in the absence of fraud or
mistake induced by the respondent, and after expiration of
the term, is entitled to have the provisions of the decree
prescribing the nature of the remedy set aside and the case
remanded to it, for the prescription of relief it deems more
appropriate to enforce the policy of the National Labor
Relations Act.1

In a proceeding instituted by the petitioner unions the
Board found that the respondent companies had been
guilty of unfair labor practices in violation of Sections
8 (1) and 8 (3) of the Act The hearings were protracted
both as to the alleged discrimination and as to the remedy
which should be adopted. With'all relevant data open
to it, the Board ordered the employers to cease and desist
from certain practices and to reinstate 209 employees with
back pay. Based on the Board's understanding as to the
opportunity for reinstatement of the 209 men in question
and all others eligible for reemployment, it devised a for49 S t. 449; 29 U. S. C. 151ff.
2

29 U. S.C. 158-

),(3).

-

MINE WORKERS v. EAGLE-PICHER CO. 337
335

Opinion of the Court.

mula for the calculation of back pay for the members of
the class to whom the award was made.'
The employers were dissatisfied with the order and
sought a review by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Thereupon the Board filed a transcript of the record in the same
court and sought enforcement of its order. The Unions,
who are petitioners in this court, were permitted to intervene and were heard in support of the Board's order. The
court modified the order as to matters not here relevant
and decreed enforcement.' Two paragraphs of the decree
thus obtained by the Board with the assistance of the
present petitioners specified the method of computing
back pay to the claimants whom the Board had found
entitled. This decree was entered June 27, 1941. The
companies proceeded to compute back pay due the claimants in accordance with the terms of the decree and tendered the amount they ascertained to be due thereunder.
The Board, by its agents, examined the corporate records
and reached the conclusion that a different method of compensation to the claimants should have been adopted in
the original proceeding.
February 4, 1943, nearly two years after the final decree,
and after attempted compliance by the employers, the
Board petitioned the Circuit Court of Appeals to vacate
that portion of its decree which dealt with the award of
back pay and to remand the cause to the Board. The petitioner labor unions were permitted to intervene and to
support the Board's petition.
It is somewhat difficult to characterize the allegations
of the petition. It does not accuse the companies of fraud,
but indicates that certain evidence produced by them created a wrong impression on the mind of the Board which
could have been corrected had they gone into greater detail
and disclosed certain facts within their knowledge, and it
3

16N. L.R.B. 727; 18 N. L.R.B. 320.
4 119 F. 2d 903.

838

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

avers that the Board prescribed its remedy in reliance
upon a mistaken understanding of conditions touching
possible reemployment of the claimants. To this petition
the employers replied challenging the jurisdiction of the
court to vacate its decree, moved to dismiss the petition,
and answered on the merits, categorically denying the
averments of the petition. Thereupon the Board moved
for judgment on its motion. The matter was heard. The
court held that there had been no showing that the order
and decree were obtained by misrepresentation or wrongful
conduct of the employers or that any mistake of the Board
had resulted in a decree which was unfair, and consequently held that there was no justification for revocation
or remand of the portion of the decree involved. The
petition of the Board was accordingly -dismissed." The
Board did not apply for certiorari but the intervening
unions whose petition had also been dismissed applied for
the writ. The Board was made a respondent in this court
but appeared in support of the petition.
The employers made a persuasive showing that., as respects material elements of the problem of back pay, the
record of the Board's hearing, and the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals enforcing the Board's order, demonstrate that all the facts now relied upon by the Board
for revocation and reformation of its order sufficiently appeared prior to the entry of the order. In the view we
take, it is unnecessary to consider this matter.
They also attack the standing of the petitioners to seek
review by this court when the Board, the body charged
with the enforcement of ,the National Labor Relations
Act, has elected not to seek review. We think that, in the
circumstances disclosed, the petitioners, though they could
not have instituted enforcement proceedings,' had standp141 F. 2d 843.
O Amalgamated Utility Workers v. -Consolidated Edison Co., 309
U. S. 261; National Licorice Co. v. Labor Board, 309 U. S. 350,
362-363; Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S. 177, 193.

MINE WORKERS v. EAGLE-PICHER CO. 339
Opinion of the Court.

335

ing to seek review of the order denying the Board's
petition.'

The important question presented is whether, despite a
decree entered at the Board's behest, prescribing the
method of enforcement of the relief granted by the Board,
that body retains a continuing jurisdiction to be exercised
whenever, in its judgment, such exercise is desirable and
may, therefore, oust the jurisdiction of the court and recall
the proceeding for further hearing and action.
It will be noted that this is not a bill of review based
upon fraud or mistake. If it were to be treated as such
obviously the relief prayed could not be granted without
a trial, in view of the issues made by the employers' answer. The Board's insistence is that, upon its petition,
the averments of which are denied, it is entitled to an
opening of the decree and the remand of the cause upon
its mere statement that it now thinks the relief orginally
granted was inappropriate to the situation as the Board
now conceives it.
We are not dealing here with an administrative proceeding. That proceeding has ended and has been merged
in a decree of a court pursuant to the directions of the
National Labor Relations Act. The statute provides that
if, in the enforcement proceeding, it appears that any further facts should be developed the court may remand the
cause to the Board for the taking of further evidence and
for further consideration. (§ 10 (e).8) But it is plain that
the scheme of the Act contemplates that when the record
has been made and is finally submitted for action by the
Board the judgment "shall be final." It is to have all the
qualities of any other decree entered in a litigated cause
upon full hearing, and is subject to review by this court
on certiorari as in other cases. (§ 10 (e) supra.) The
Consolidated Edison Co. v. Labor Board, 305 U. S. 197, 218; Wil-

liams v. Morgan, 111 U. S. 684.
829 U. S. C. 160 (e).

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

position of the petitioners is, and necessarily must be, that,
while the court's decree is final as respects the matter of
the alleged unfair labor practices found by the Board, it
is never final as respects the relief prescribed by the Board.
It must follow that at any time, however remote, and for
any reason satisfactory to the Board, it may recall the
proceeding from the Circuit Court of Appeals insofar as
concerns the relief granted and start afresh as if an
enforcement decree had never been entered.
Finality to litigation is an end to be desired as well in
proceedings to which an administrative body is a party
as in exclusively private litigation. The party adverse to
the administrative body is entitled to rely on the conclusiveness of a decree entered by a court to the same extent
that other litigants may rely on judgments for or against
them. The petitioners' contention is that the nature
and extent of the back pay remedy are primarily and peculiarly matters lying within the administrative discretion
of the Board (see Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board,
313 U. S. 177, 194; LaborBoard v. Link-Belt Co., 311 U. S.
584, 600), and that a court's function is limited to imparting legal sanction to the back pay remedy once it has
determined that the Board has acted within the confines
of its authority; since a court is prohibited from exercising the discretion reposing exclusively in the Board; and
it can, therefore, neither affirm nor reverse a Board order
relating to back pay on the basis of its own conception of
effectuating the policies of the Act.
All this is true, and we have allowed the Board great
latitude in devising remedies which it deems necessary to
effectuate the purposes of the Act' But it is not we who
essay to interfere with the discretion of an administrative
body; it is the Board which is seeking to vacate a court
order. The Board had exercised its discretion and devised
a remedy. It gave long consideration to the problem of
adequate relief for the employees discriminated against,
and now asserts that it made a mistake. That is all that

MINE WORKERS v. EAGLE-PICHER CO.
335

341

Opinion of the Court.

it asserts-not even the Board-claims that the court below
is usurping its functions. What the Board complains of
is that it is not permitted to exercise its admittedly wide
discretion a second time, or any number of times it may
choose.
Administrative flexibility and judicial certainty are not
contradictory; there must be an end to disputes which
arise between administrative bodies and those over whom
they have jurisdiction.
This does not mean that the
Board could not frame an order which by its terms required modification should conditions change. But here
the order was definite and complete; it contemplated only
arithmetical computation. The conditions remained the
same; what had changed was the Board's awareness of
them. Discussion of the Board's peculiar administrative
ability serves no end where the matter is one of simple
mistake. It rings hollow when it refers to what on the
whole is little more than a mistake in arithmetic, and,
in one instance, is just that.
Not only has this Court allowed large scope to the
discretion of administrators, but the National Labor Relations Act specifically gives the Board wide powers of modification. Until the transcript of a case is'filed in court,
the Board may, after reasonable notice, modify any finding or order in whole or in part." After the case has, come
under the jurisdiction of the court, either party may apply
to the court for remand to the Board.'
There is no dearth
of discretion or opportunity for its exercise, but opportunities should not be unlimited. If the petitioners are
right, it must follow that. in any case in which the court
refuses to remand, the Board need merely wait until the
"final" decree is entered and then proceed to resume jurisdiction, ignore the court's decree, and come again to it,
asking its imprimatur on a new order.
L29 U. S. C. 160 (d).
10 29 U. S. C. 160 (e).

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Petitioners place great reliance on American Chain &
Cable Co. v. FederalTrade Commission, 142 F. 2d 909, but
far from supporting them,. that case emphasizes the lack
of statutory authority here for what was permitted there.
There, the court ordered the FederalTrade Commission to
consider a petition that the Commission ask the court to
vacate its enforcing decree because of war conditions. But
the statute in that case reads: "After the expiration of
the time allowed for filing a petition for review, if no such
petition has been duly filed within such time, the Commission may at any time, after notice and opportunity for
hearing, reopen and alter, modify, or set aside, in whole or
in part, any report or order made or issued by it under this
section, whenever in the opinion of the Cqmmission conditions of fact or of law have so changed as to require
such action or if the public interest shall so require.""
This statute specifically allows the-Commission to modify
its order after it has become final. And the court merely
held that it was reasonable to suppose that Congress intended the Commission's power to extend to cases where
its order had become final by court--decree as well as to
cases where the order had become final by failure to appeal. The National Labor Relations Board is vested with
no such power. Section 10 (d) 1 of the Act provides:
"Until a transcript of the record in a case shall have been
filed in a court, as hereinafter provided, the Board may at
any time, upon reasonable notice and in such manner as
it shall deem proper, modify or set aside, in whole or in
part, any finding or order made or issued by it."
There is no question that the Act intended to vest exclusive jurisdiction in the courts once the Board in the
exercise of its discretion had reached its determination
and applied for enforcement. This prevents conflict of
authority. Ford Motor Co. v. LaborBoard, 305 U. S. 364.
- 15 U. S. C. 45 (b).
1229 U. S. C. 160 (d).

MINE WORKERS v. EAGLE-PICHER CO. 343
335

Opinion of the Court.

In the Ford case, we, said, "The authority conferred upon,
the Board by § 10 (d) of the National Labor Relations Act,
to modify or set aside its findings and order, ended with
the filing in court of the transcript of record." 305 U. S.
364, 368. But the petitioners and the Board contend that
although the court has entered its decree, the Board may
resume jurisdiction in the same case when it pleases, disregarding the court's decree. This would, indeed, be a
peculiar scheme of jurisdiction, devised to prevent interference with the court while it is deliberating to determine
what its decree shall be, but allowing the decree to be
ignored after it is entered.
The circumstances of the case show how unfair it would
be to hold with the petitiohers. The employers challenged the Board's order in the original enforcement proceeding, not only as it affected the charged unfair labor
practices, but as touching the appropriate relief. When
the Circuit Court of Appeals modified and affirmed the
order, the companies had an opportunity to apply to this
court for review, or to comply with the decree as modified
by the court. They elected to follow the latter course only
to be confronted, years later, with an attempt to rewrite
a portion of that decree at a time when their right of review
of other portions of it had expired.
We are dealing here with a decree of a court entered in a
judicial proceeding. The term at which the decree was
entered has long since expired. The only recourse open
to the Board is the same that would be open to any other
litigant, namely, a bill of review. If the petition disclosed
any basis for such a review the answer of the employers
sharply raised issues of fact which required resolution
before any relief in the nature of a review could be granted.
Unless the National Labor Relations Act so requires, the
Board was not entitled, as of right, to have the decree it
had procured set aside in part and the cause remanded for
trial de novo in part. There is nothing in the Act to indi-

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MURPHY, J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

cate that such a decree is dual in character; part of it final
and part of it subject to vacation and reexamination by
the Board regardless of the showing made to the court and
regardless of the view the court holds as to the propriety
of such vacation.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

dissenting.

This case raises important questions concerning the relationship of courts and administrative agencies subsequent
to the entry of a judicial decree enforcing an administrative order. Because the particular facts of this case are so
essential to a proper determination of these questions and
because the Court has not seen fit to refer to the factual situation in other than general terms, it is necessary to review
the facts at some length before discussing my reasons for
disagreement with the Court's conclusion.
The National Labor Relations Board, after conducting
proceedings instituted upon charges filed by the petitioner
unions, found that the respondent companies had committed unfair labor practices in violation of Sections 8 (1)
and 8 (3) of the National Labor Relations Act, 49 Stat.
449, 452. On October 27, 1939, the Board entered an
order requiring the companies to cease and desist from
their unfair labor practices and to take certain affirmative
action, including the reinstatement of 209 employees
with back pay. Inasmuch as the record at that time
convinced the Board that employment opportunities
with the companies had been permanently and substantially curtailed subsequent to the critical date of July 5,
1935, the Board felt the normal remedy of full back pay
would be inappropriate. Under the assumed circumstances, the normal remedy would require the companies
to pay in back wages an amount greater than that which
they would have paid to the victims of discrimination had

MINE WORKERS v. EAGLE-PICHER CO. 345
335

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

there been no unfair labor practices. And it would also
give the group of 209 employees more than it presumably
would have received under curtailed employment opportunities. The Board therefore devised and set forth in its
opinion a special formufa giving each claimant only a portion of the full back pay to which he otherwise would
haye been entitled.' 16 N. L. R. B. 727; amended in 18
N. L. R. B. 320.
The companies then filed a petition for review in the
court below on November 6, 1939, and the Board countered with a cross-petition for enforcement of its order.
On February 10, 1940, the petitioner unions'sought and
obtained permission 'from the court to intervene in the
proceedings on the claim that since certain of their members had been allowed affirmative relief by the Board they
were "vitally concerned with the enforcement of said order
of the Board." Leave was also given them to file briefs
and participate in the oral argument. Subsequently, on
May 21, 1941, the court below rendered an opinion affirming the Board's order with certain modifications not here
material and a decree enforcing the order was entered
accordingly, 119 F. 2d 903.
On August .23, 1941, the companies offered reinstatement to the 209 employees, thereby fixing that day as the
terminal date of the period commencing July 5, 1935,
for which back pay was due under the terms of the court's
decree enforcing the Board's order. The companies submitted their back pay computations to the Board in May,
1942, and tendered the sum of $8,409.39 in purported full
payment of all back pay, although they later averred that
no more than $5,400 was due tinder the formula specified
by the Board. In accordance with its usual procedure
the Board thereupon examined the pertinent pay rolls
and records of the companies to verify their computations
'This special formula was noted by this Court in Phelps Dodge
Corp. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S. 177, 198-199, note 7.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

and to determine whether there had been compliance with
the decree. This investigation was completed in October,
1942, at which time the Board became convinced that
the provisions of its order as enforced by the court contained certain errors and mistakes relating to back pay
and that in framing the special formula it had misconceived the facts as to the availability of employment with
the companies for the 209 employees. It appeared to the
Board that the companies during the period from July 5,
1935, to August 23, 1941, had been in a position to accord
full employment to these 209 claimants as well as to all
other former employees reapplying for work and that the
normal back-wage computations should have been used.
The Board on February 1, 1943, filed a petition with
the court below setting forth the situation. It requested
that the pertinent paragraphs of the court's decree enforcing the Board's order be vacated and that so much of
the cause as was thereby affected be remanded to the
Board for-further consideration. The companies filed
an answer. The unions also filed a brief and participated
in the oral argument on this matter. The court, treating
the Board's petition as one "inthe nature of a bill of review to set aside, for fraud, mistake and newly discovered
evidence, paragraphs 2 (d) and 3 (b) of the final decree
of this Court," dismissed the petition on its merits. 141
F. 2d 843. The court later denied without opinion the
Board's petition for rehearing and the union's separate
motion to modify the decree or to vacate the paragraphs
in question and remand to the Board.
I
Turning to the facts relative to the alleged error, we
find that the Board in framing its back pay formula for
the 209 employees expressly desired to make them whole
and "to restore the situation, as nearly as possible, to
that which would have obtained but for the illegal dis-

MINE WORKERS v. EAGLE-PICHER CO. 347
335

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

crimination." 16 N. L. R. B. at 834. Normally the
Board would have directed payment of full back pay to
each claimant from the date of discrimination to the date
of offer of reinstatement or placement on a preferential
rehiring list, allowing due credit for net interim earnings
received from other employment. But the Board felt
that "the peculiar factual situation here presents unusual
difficulties in- fashioning our remedy so as to restore the
status quo," 16 N. L. R. B. at 834, and that a special
remedy should be devised.
It appears that a strike, beginning on May 8, 1935,
caused the companies to close down for several weeks.
On that day approximately 1,100 men were employed by
the companies. Operations were resumed on June 12 and
the Board found that thereafter the companies discriminatorily refused to rehire the 209 employees in question,
referred to as the' claimants. Evidence was introduced
by the companies, however, to show that after July 5,
1935, the effective date of the Act, certain of their mines
were sold, many operations suspended, production methods reorganized and specific jobs abolished-resulting in
a drastic* curtailment of the number of available jobs.
According to the Board, only about 600 men were employed by July 5. Some 350 of the 500 employees not
then working were claimants in the case, although discrimination was found only as to 209 of them. After
July 5 a substantial number of additional men were. put
to work, but the total number of employees was still considerably. short of the pre-strike level of 1,100. The Board
apparently assumed that all 1,100 men would reapply for
work after the settlement of the strike, thus making the
number of available jobs insufficient. As it later became
evident, however, not all of the 1,100 reapplied and there
were, according to the Board, sufficient opportunities at
substantially all times for all who actually reapplied,
including the 209 victims of discrimination.

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MURPHY, J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

On the assumption that "there were presumably at all
times less jobs open than old employees available," 16
N. L. R. B. at 834, and that there was no Way of knowing
which men would have been reinstated had the companies
acted legally, the Board devised a special formula for
computing back pay. It directed that there be computed.
as a lump sum the total amount of wages actually paid
to all persons hired or reinstated from and after July 5,
1935, up to the date of compliance with the Board order
reinstating or placing the 209 employees on a preferential
list. The Board indicated that "we shall not credit the
entire lump sum to the claimants discriminated against,
since we cannot assume that they and only they would
have been given these jobs had the. respondents acted
lawfully. But we can and do assume for this purpose that
a proportionate amount of such claimants would have been
given the jobs." 16 N. L. R. B. at 835, 836. 'Accordingly,
the Board directed that a proportion of the lump sum
should be distributed to the 209 claimants. This proportion was to be determined by a governing fraction having as its numerator the number of. claimants and as its
denominator the total number of claimants and all other
pre-strike employees who reapplied for work, whether
successfully or not, after July 5, 1935. Thus, by way of
illustration, if the lump sum amounted to $360,000 and
there were 200 claimants and 100 other reapplicants, the
governing fraction would be two-thirds and the basic sum
of $240,000 would be divided among the 200 claimants,
with adjustments being made for net earnings elsewhere.
Neither the Board's order nor the court's enforcing decree
fixed the amount of back pay due under this formula.
The determination of that sum was left to be made after
the period of discrimination ended.
Following the close of the period of discrimination, the
Board examined the payrolls and other records of the
companies to determine the exact amount of back wages

MINE WORKERS v. EAGLE-PICHER CO. 349
335

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

due the 209 claimants. According to the Board, this
investigation revealed that, despite any curtailment of
employment, the companies at virtually all times after
July 5. 1935, had jobs opening up in numbers equal to and
at tines in excess of the total number of claimants and
reapplicants and that such positions were available at
virtually all times to all the claimants and reapplicants.
This information was submitted by the Board in support
of its petition to vacate and remand the portions of the
court's decree relating to back pay. .It claimed that it
had been led into error in framing its original formula by
the evidence and contention of the companies relative to
curtailed employment and that such a formula, under the
facts as they now appeared to the Board, would be grossly
inequitable to those who had suffered deprivation of earnings as a consequence of the companies' unfair labor
practices.
The parties differ as to whether the Board at the time
it framed the special formula was aware of or had access
to the facts which it now relies upon. The Board alleges
that it was ignorant of these facts and thus misconceived
the remedy. The companies state, however, thato-the
Board actually knew of these facts and that, in the exercise of its discretion, it decreed that partial rather than
full back wages should be paid. We need not pause to
determine this controversy for it appears obvious that,
assuming the figures submitted by the Board are true, the
special formula specified by the Board is grossly inadequate and falls far short of achieving the expressed desire
of the Board in this case "to restore the situation, as nearly
as possible, to that which would have obtained but for the
illegal discrimination."
If it were true that there were insufficient jobs for the
209 claimants as well as for the other reapplicants the
special formula would be appropriate. Then it could be
said that it was impossible to tell whether the 209 claim=
ants would all have been employed by the companies sub-

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

sequent to July 5, 1935, and that it was therefore necessary to apportion the available jobs among claimants and
other reapplicants for,.purposes of determining how much
back pay was due the 'aimants. But if it is a fact that
there were sufficient employment opportunities for all
the 209 claimants and the reapplicants at virtually all
times, the back pay formula framed by the Board becomes inadequate. Since all of the claimants would then
presumably have been employed by the companies at all
times but for the discrimination, all of them suffered the
loss of the full wages which they would have received
and any formula which gives them less than that amount
fails to make them whole. And the companies escape
paying the full amount of wages they would have paid
had they acted legally.
We cannot ascribe to the Board a deliberate intention
to prescribe something less than a full make whole remedy.
Nothing appears in the Board's opinion or order to that
effect. Indeed, the Board's statements of its objectives in
this case expressly negative such an intention. And the
reason given for fashioning the special formula-the fact
that there were presumably at all times less jobs open than
old employees available-is consistent only with a desire
to compensate the claimants as fully and as equitably as
possible under the facts as then contemplated.
In addition to the alleged inappropriateness of the
formula as a whole, the Board claims that there are numerous other errors in the back pay provisions that warrant remand for purposes of correction. Thus footnote
185 of the Board's opinion inadvertently contains a serious
omission which, contrary to the Board's intention, limits
the lump sum used in the formula to the earnings of only
209 employees rather than to the earnings of 209 employees plus the number of old employees reapplying.!
With the words in
2 This footnote appears at 16 N. L.. R. B. at 835.
brackets originally being omitted by the Board and being added here

MINE WORKERS v. EAGLE-PICHER CO. 351
335

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

The governing fraction includes the latter employees
and the lump sum should in turn reflect their earnings.
Otherwise the claimants are limited to a small part of their
proportionate loss in wages. Moreover, the formula
illogically requires that there be deducted from each
claimant's share the full amount rather than a pro rata
share of his interim, earnings. These errors and certain
ambiguities 8 serve to make the partial back pay formula
an ineffective means for making the employees as whole as
possible even on the assumption that employment opportunities had been curtailed. The remedy which the
Board originally found to be essential to carry out the
purposes of the Act is thereby rendered inadequate.
The practical impact of this situation on the employees
involved is serious and substantial. Under the Board's
partial and mathematically inaccurate back pay formula,
which this Court now insists must be followed, the companies claim that the 209 employees are entitled to only
$5,400. But if the true facts are as represented by the
Board and if it should be determined that the full back
pay formula should be utilized under such circumstances,
approximately $800,000 would be due these 209 employees
to indicate the Board's intended modification, this footnote reads as
follows:
"Ifat any given time during this period the number of such new
or reinstated employees then working exceeds the number of claimants
discriminated against [plus the number of old employees reapplying],
only the earnings of a number of such employees equal to the number
of claimants discriminated against [plus the number of old employees.
reapplying] shall be counted in computing the lump sum...
* The Board claims that since'the number of claimants, and reapplicants varies from week to week, the formula is ambiguous as to whether
a single governing fraction, based on the average or on the maximum
numbers of claimants and reapplicants, or successive governing fractions, based on the actual numbers, are to be constructed for the period
of discrimination. It is also said that the formula fails to define the
"average earnings" referred to in the last sentence of footnote 185
of the Board's opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MunuPHY, J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

after allowance for interim earnings elsewhere. Thus
these employees must bear the loss of nearly $795,000 in
unpaid back wages resulting from the unfair labor practices of the companies. On them rests the penalty for
what this Court euphemistically calls "little more than a
mistake in arithmetic."
It is thus clear that unless the Board is given some
opportunity to reexamine its back pay remedy much of
the loss resulting from the companies' unfair labor practices may be shifted from the companies to the employees
and the public policy of the Act may be largely circumvented. Our concern here is not with the truth of the
facts alleged by the Board or with the appropriateness of
any other remedy the Board rhight devise. It is enough'
that the Board has cast sufficient doubt on the appropriateness and correctness of its original remedy to warrant resubmission of the matter to the Board for further
consideration. The Court today does not attempt to
deny that the situation is an intolerable one in light of
the alleged facts or that modification or remand of the
back pay provisions of the decree is a reasonable request
under such circumstances. Hence, unless some principle
of law or statute compels the opposite conclusion, such a
remand should have been made.
II
The pertinent legal and statutory rules, in my opinion,
do not preclude remand of the back pay provisions of the
court's decree to the Board under these circumstances.
The companies argue that the exercise of the Board's
discretion in devising a back pay formula became a finality
by virtue of the enforcing decree of the court below and
that this formula cannot be modified or reconsidered at
this late date. It is claimed that all rights and liabilities
under the decree were fixed and fully accrued on August
23, 1941, the terminal date of the period of discrimination,

MINE WORKERS v. EAGLE-PICHER CO. 353
335

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

and that the courtbelow had no jurisdiction to vacate or
remand any portion of that decree subsequent to the end
of the term in which it was entered.
But it is plain that the back pay formula, as enforced
by the court's decree, was at most provisional and tentative in character. Cf. United States v. Swift & Co., 286
U. S. 106, 114. It did not pretend to be based upon detailed and comprehensive findings as to actual employment opportunities and actual losses suffered during the
entire period of discrimination, facts which were impossible to determine until after the close of that period.
Even though the hearing closed on April 29, 1938, that
part of the order relating to back pay spoke as of July 5,
1935. The Board merely assumed from certain evidence
and allegations that there would be decreased employment opportunities at all times after July 5, 1935, and
left to the future the problem of uncovering the complete
facts. The formula was drawn in light of that assumption, an assumption that necessarily contemplated that
undisclosed or new facts or a, removal of a misconception
of the true facts might call for an adjustment in the remedy to be applied. And the enforcing decree of the court
in no way affected the tentative and unexecuted nature of
this formula.
The rights and liabilities under such a back pay formula could not become final until the Board or the courts
were satisfied with the application of the formula to the
actual facts or until the formula ripened into an executed
decree. The sole purpose of the remedy was to vindicate the public policy by compensating the employees for
the losses-they had suffered due to the unfair labor practices of the companies rather than to punish the companies. Until it was authoritatively determined that the
remedy did accomplish this purpose as applied to the
actual facts, or until the decree was fully executed, no
rights and liabilities can be said finally to have accrued.

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

Thus the companies had no vested right on the day they
ceased their discriminatory policy relative to the 209 employees to compensate those employees according to a formula which woefully failed to make the employees whole.
The relevant portions of the decree could still be modified
or remanded.
As the court below recognized, it retained "jurisdiction
over the enforcement of all of the provisions of its decree
which remain unexecuted." 141 F. 2d at 845. A court
has the unquestioned and continuing power to make corrections and changes in its untexecuted decrees even after
the term of court in which they were originally entered
has expired. See Root v. Woolworth, 150 U. S. 401;
Shields v. Thomas, 18 How. 253; 8 Cyclopedia of Federal
Procedure (2d ed.) § 3598 and cases there cited. This
includes the power to modify or grant additional relief in
the interest of enforcirg or effectuating decrees. Thus
the doctrine of finality of judgment has no relevance as
applied to unexecuted decrees and cannot be utilized to
deny power in the court below to modify or remand the
back pay provisions of the decree to the Board. No specific provision in the National Labor Relations Act, moreover, is necessary in order to appreciate that any decree
requiring future action is upon entry partly final and
partly unexecuted. "A continuing decree of injunction
directed to events to come is subject always to adaptation
as events may shape the need." United States v. Swift
& Co., 286 U. S. 106, 114. As to the unexecuted portion
of the decree below, finality obviously has not accrued.
On the facts alleged in the Board's petition and in the
unions' motion, the court below plainly erred in refusing
to allow the Board to reconsider the back pay remedy.
Under § 10 (c) of the Act, the Board is authorized to
require such affirmative remedial action, "including reinstatement of employees with or without back pay, as
will effectuate the policies of this Act." As the Court

MINE WORKERS v. EAGLE-PICHER CO. 355
335

MURPHY, J., dissenting.

recognizes, the nature and extent of the back pay remedy
are thus primarily and peculiarly matters lying within the
administrative discretion of the Board, and a court's function -is limited to imparting legal sanction to the back
pay remedy once it has determined that the Board has
acted within the confines of its authority. A court cannot exercise the discretion that Congress has given only
to the Board. But if, as conceded, a court can neither
affirm nor reverse a Board order relating to back pay on
the basis of its own conception of effectuating the policies
of the Act, no less should it refuse to allow the Board
to reconsider an unexecuted remedy once proposed if the
Board reasonably feels that the public policy which it
guards demands such action. The special competence
of the Board to require affirmative remedial action necessarily includes a special competence to modify, amend or
repeal such a requirement prior to its consummation.
It does not follow, as the Court assumes, that the Board
at any time and for any reason satisfactory fo it may recall
that part of the enforcing decree relating to affirmative
relief and start afresh. The requirement of reasonableness applies here as elsewhere. If the Board's request is so
baseless and unnecessary as to exceed the bounds of reasonableness, refusal to remand lies within the sound discretion of the court. But here it is undeniable that if the
facts stated by the Board are true the unexecuted remedy
is entirely inadequate to achieve the purposes for which
it was designed. Employees suffer for the sins of their employers and the public policy underlying the requirement
of back pay is largely frustrated. To deny a remand
under such circumstances is to abuse a court's discretion
and to transform the judicial system into a weapon against
the innocent victims of an administrative error.
The responsibility of the Board for proposing remedies
to effectuate the policies of the Act is a continuing one.
Cf. Franks Bros. Co. v. Labor Board, 321 U. S. 702, 705-

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MmHy, J., dissenting.

- 325 U. S.

706. It is not necessarily lifted by reason of the entry
of a judicial decree of enforcement, although it may be
suspended temporarily during the pendency of review proceedings in the appellate court. Ford Motor Co. v. Labor
Board, 305 U. S. 364. If at any time before the decree
is executed the Board becomes convinced that the remedy
as tentatively approved by the court will no longer serve
the statutory purposes, reason and justice dictate that
the Board should have the opportunity to reconsider the
matter. Whether the inadequacy of the remedy be due
to inadvertence, negligence, fraud or other reasons, there
is no recognizable public or private interest in executing
such a remedy. To hold that a particular back pay
remedy must be imposed when the Board reasonably suspects that it is incorrect or inadequate is to project legalism
to an absurd and dangerous length.
We are not dealing here with an ordinary common law
money judgment which one party seeks to set. aside for
fraud, mistake, or newly discovered evidence. Nor are we
met with an ordinary litigant seeking relief for itself from
a judicial decree. We are concerned, rather, with the
attempt of an administrative agency to effectuate the policies set forth in a Congressional mandate. Until those
policies are effectuated through the enforcement and execution of statutory remedies, the agency and the courts
should coordinate their efforts to realize the plain will
of the people. United States v. Morgan, 307 U. S. 183,
191.
MR. JUSTICE BLAcK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR.
JusTicE RUnT=DE join in this dissent.

