WALLING v. HARNISCHFEGER CORP. 427
Statement of the Case.

WALLING, ADMINISTRATOR OF THE WAGE AND
HOUR DIVISION, U. S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR,
v. HARNISCHFEGER CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 956.

Argued May 1, 1945.-Decided June 4, 1945.

A wage agreement, arrived at by collective bargaining, provided for
compensation at a specified base rate or "regular rate." On "time
studied" jobs, "incentive bonuses" or "piecework earnings" normally
resulted in employees receiving compensation, exclusive of overtime
payments, at a rate higher than the base rate. The hourly rate
actually paid on many jobs not "time studied" was at least 20%
higher than the base. Held:
1. As to employees who received hourly rates higher than the
base rate, the computation of overtime on the basis of such rate
rather than on the rate actually received violated § 7 (a) of the
Fair Labor Standards Act. P. 430.
2. As to employees who received incentive, bonuses, such payments must enter into the computation of the Ftatutory regular rate
for purposes of the overtime provisions of § 7 (a), regardless of any
contract provision to the contrary. P. 431.
3; Where, as here, the facts do not permit it, the Court cannot
arbitrarily divide bonuses or piece-work wages into regular and overtime segments, thereby creating' artificial compliance with § 7 (a).
P. 432.
4. It is not sufficient that the employer pays for overtime a
premium which makes the overtime rate somewhat higher than the
piece-work earnings per hour; section 7 (a) requires that that
premium be not less than 50% of the actual hourly rate received
from all regular sources. P. 432.
5. Where the correct overtime compensation cannot be determined until after the regular payday, § 7 (a) requires only that the
employee receive such compensation as soon as convenient or practicable under the circumstances. P. 432.
145 F. 2d 589, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 324 U. S.837, to review the reversal of an
order of the District Court, 54 F. Supp. 326, enjoining

violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act.

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Mr.Irving J, Levy, with whom Assistant Solicitor Hugh
B. Cox, Messrs. Ralph F. Fuchs, Douglas B. Maggs and
Archibald Cox were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Leo Mann, with whom Messrs. Louis Quarles and
Maxwell H. Herriottwere on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTICs MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Here, as -in Walling v. Youngerman-Reynolds Hardwood Co., ante, p. 419, we are concerned with the problem
of whether a particular type of wage agreement meets the
requirements of Section 7 (a) of the Fair Labor Standards
Act of 1938.1
Respondent is a Wisconsin corporation engaged in producing electrical products for interstate commerce. About
one-half of respondent's production employees, called
incentive or piece workers, are involved in this case.
As a result of collective bargaining by their union, these
employees entered into a collective agreement with respondent whereby they are each paid a basic hourly rate
plus an "incentive bonus" or "piecework earnings." The
various jobs performed by these incentive workers are
"time studied" by the management. The time which the
job is shown to consume is multiplied by a "standard earning rate" 2 per unit of time. The amount so obtained is
known as the "price" placed on that job. When an employee is given work on a job that has been so priced, he
receives a job card bearing the price.
The worker is paid his agreed base or hourly rate (ranging from 55 cents to $1.05 per hour) for the time which
1 52 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C. § 201 et 8eq.
2 The "standard earning -rate" is the hourly rate of pay which

workers in the Milwaukee, Wisconsin, district receive for that type

of work. This "standard earning rate" is not the base rate of any
worker in respondent's plant, nor is it the average hourly earned
rate of any worker.

WALLING v. HtARNISCHFEGER CORP. 429
427

Opinion of the Court.

he takes to perform the job. If the job price exceeds this
base pay, he ultimately receives the difference between the
two amounts. The excess of the job price over the hourly
earnings is known as an "incentive bonus" or "piecework
earnings." Thus the sooner a job is completed the greater
will be this incentive bonus. When the job price is smaller
than the hourly earnings the employee receives only the
hourly rate for the time worked, being assured of that rate
regardless of his efficiency or speed. About 98.5% of the
incentive workers, however, work with sufficient efficiency
and speed to earn compensation over and above their base
pay. These incentive bonuses were found by the District
Court to form about 22% of the total compensation re-,
ceived each pay-day by these workers, exclusive of overtime payments, although respondent claims that the
bonuses vary from 5% to 29% of each payroll.
On many jobs which have not been "time studied" the
respondent has agreed to pay, and does pay, each incentive
worker an hourly rate at least 20% higher than his basic
hourly rate. And when an incentive worker is temporarily
assigned to "non-incentive" work he is paid at least 20%
more than his basic hourly rate. Moreover, vacation pay
is based on an employee's average hourly straight time
earnings over a three-month period and not on his base
rate.
These incentive workers frequently work in excess of
the statutory maximum workweek. For these extra hours
they receive a premium of 50% of the basic hourly rate,
which does not reflect the incentive bonuses received.
Likewise, when incentive workers are working on jobs
that have not been "time studied" or are temporarily
doing "non-incentive" work they receive overtime pay
on the basis of their basic hourly rates rather than on the
20% higher hourly rates actually paid them during the
non-overtime hours.
The Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division of
the Department of Labor brought this action to compel

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

the respondent to comply with the provisions of § 7 (a)
of the Act. In defense, respondent pointed to the provision in the collective contract to the effect that "the parties
agree that, for all purposes, the regular rate of pay at
which each employee who participates in an incentive plan
is employed, is the base rate of each such employee." The
District Court held that the respondent was violating the
Act by excluding from the computation of overtime the
piece rate actually paid. 54 F. Supp. 326. The Seventh
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed that judgment by a
divided vote. 145 F. 2d 589.
Our attention here is focused upon a determination of
the regular rate of compensation at which the incentive
workers are employed. To discover that rate, as in the
Youngerman-Reynolds case, we look not to contract nomenclature but to the actual payments, exclusive of those
paid for overtime, which the parties have agreed shall be
paid during each workweek.
It is evident that all the incentive workers receive a
guaranteed basic hourly pay as a minimum. As to those
who receive no regular additional payments during their
non-overtime hours the respondent complies fully with § 7
(a) by paying them one and one-half times the basic
hourly rate for All overtime hours. But the vast majority
of the employees do receive regular though fluctuating
amounts for work done during their non-overtime hours
in addition to their basic hourly pay.
(1) Those who receive hourly rates at least 20% higher
than their guaranteed base rates clearly are paid a regular
rate identical with the higher rate and the failure of
respondent to pay them for overtime labor on the basis
of such a rate is a plain violation of the terms and spirit of
§ 7 (a). No contract designation of the base rate as the
"regular rate" can negative the fact that these employees
do in fact regularly receive the higher rate. To compute
overtime compensation from the lower and unreceived rate

WALLING v. 2HARNISCHFEGER CORP. 431
427

Opinion of the Court.

is not only unrealistic but is destructive of the legislative
intent. A full 50% increase in labor costs and a full 50%
wage premium, which were meant to flow from the operation of § 7 (a), are impossible of achievement under such
a computation.
(2) Those who receive incentive bonuses in addition to,
their guaranteed base pay clearly receive a greater regular
rate than the minimum base rate.3 If they received only
piece work wages it is indisputable that the regular rate
would be the equivalent of the translation of those wages
into an hourly rate. United States v. Rosenwasser, 323
U. S. 360. It follows that piece work wages forming only a
part of the normal weekly income must also be an ingredient of the statutory regular rate. Piece work wages do
not escape the force of § 7 (a) merely because they.-&e paid
in addition to a minimum hourly pay guaranteed by contract. Indeed, from another viewpoint, the incentive employees so compensated are in fact paid entirely on a piece
work basis with a minimum hourly guaranty.'

The con-

clusion that only the minimum hourly rate constitutes the
regular rate opens an easy path for evading the plain
3 This is shown by the following example. An incentive worker is
assigned a basic rate of $1 an hour and works 50 hours a week on 15
"time studied" jobs that have each been'given a "price" of $5. He
completes the 15 jobs in the 50 hours. He receives $50 basic pay
plus $25 incentive' pay (the difference between the base pay and 15
job prices). In addition, the worker receives $5 extra for the 10 overtime hours. This is computed on the basis of 50% of.the $1 base rate,
or 50 cents an hour premium. Actually, however, this worker receives compensation during the week at the actual rate of $1.50 an
hour ($75 divided by 50 hours) and the overtime premium should be
computed on that basis, giving the worker a premium of 75 cents an
hour or $7.50 for the 10 overtime hours.
' Thus, in the example given in footnote 3, the worker earns $75
during the week exclusive of the overtime premium. This, $75 may
be considered either (1) the amount received for completing the 15
"priced" jobs with a $50 minimum guaranty or (2) the sum of the.
$50 hourly pay and the $25 piece work pay.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

design of § 7 (a). We cannot sanction such a patent
disregard of statutory duties.
In this instance 98.5% of the incentive employees receive incentive bonuses in addition to their guaranteed
hourly wages, demonstrating that such bonuses are a normal and regular part of their income. Once the parties
agree that these employees should receive such piece work
wages, those wages automatically enter into the computation of the regular rate for purposes of § 7 (a) .regardless
of any contract provision to the contrary. Moreover,
where the facts do not permit it, we cannot arbitrarily
divide bonuses or piece work wages into regular and overtime segments, thereby creating an artificial compliance
with § 7 (a).
It matters not how significant the basic hourly rates may
be in determining the compensation in situations where
incentive bonuses are not paid. When employees do earn
more than the basic hourly rates because of the operation
of the incentive bonus plan the basic rates lose their significance in determining the actual rate of compensation.
Nor is it of controlling importance that the respondent
now pays a premium for overtime employment so as to
make the overtime rate somewhat above the piece work
earnings per hour.' Until that premium is 50% of the
actual hourly rate received from all regular sources, § 7 (a)
has not been satisfied.
Respondent also points to the fact that the incentive
bonuses are often not determined or paid until weeks dr
even months after the semi-monthly pay-days, due to the
nature of the "priced" jobs. But §-7 (a) does not require
the impossible. If the correct overtime compensation cannot be determined until some time after the regular pay
period, the employer is not thereby excused from making
the proper computation and payment. Section 7 (a)
5

The overtime rate now paid amounts to about one and one-third or
one and one-fourth the regular hourly rate of actual earnings.

WALLING v. HARNISCHFEGER CORP.
427

FRANKFURTER,

433

J., concurring.

requires only that the employees receive a 50% premium as soon as convenient or practicable under the.
circumstances.
The judgment of the court below is reversed and that
of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
concurring.
The Fair Labor Standards Act, 52 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C.
§201 et seq., does not prohibit employment at piece-work
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

rates. It merely requires that piece-work earnings be converted to an hourly basis for determining the minimum
and overtime requirements of that Act. United States v.
Rosenwasser, 323 U. S. 360. Nor does the Act bar an
agreement establishing an hourly "regular rate" that does
not fall short of the statutory minimum even though it be
complicated by a guaranteed weekly lump sum wage
adapted to the circumstances of a particular employment,
provided it is not a mere artifice unrelated to wage-earning actualities. Walling v. Belo Corp., 316 U. S. 624;
Walling v. Helmerich & Payne, 323 U. S. 37. Accordingly,
the Fair Labor Standards Act does not preclude a wage
agreement whereby piece-rate payments are related, fairly
and not evasively, partly to regular hours of work and
partly to overtime. Piece rates need not necessarily be so
adjusted that they cannot fairly be designed as part of
the overtime but must necessarily help "load" the regular
hourly wage.
But a properly apportioned overtime function for piece
work should be clearly indicated as such in the employment contract. No doubt a law. which, while covering
piece rates, speaks in terms of hourly rates presents difficulties both for those charged with the law's enforcement
and for those under duty to obey it. But if a wage agreement is to escape the obvious arithmetic way of calculating hourly rates based on piece-work rates, by dividing

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE, C. J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

the total earnings by the hours worked, it is not too much
to require that the function of piece rates as an overtime
factor, if such they be, be clearly formulated. The contract should leave no such dubiety as to the role of the
piece rate to the regular hourly rate as the two arrangements before us. It should not be left to courts to work
out a hypothetical mathematical interpretation which, if
it corresponded with the actual arrangement, could satisfy
the statute.
A R. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting.

I think the judgment in both these cases should be
affirmed as to all piece work employees and in No. 956
the judgment should be reversed only as to employees
working exclusively on the hourly wage basis.
The respondent in each of these cases has entered into
a wage contract with its employees, which places in their
pay envelopes a weekly wage in excess of the minimum
hourly wage rate which the Fair Labor Standards Act
prescribes for the work week of forty hours and the additional overtime hours which they work in each week.
There is no contention that the contracts were not entered into fairly and in a good faith effort to satisfy all
the requirements of the law and to provide the employees
with a wage higher than the prevailing rate of pay for
like hours of work, with time and a half for overtime. The
contract involved in No. 956 was the result of collective
bargaining between the respondent employer and the
C. I. 0. Union of its employees. Both employers and
employees desire to continue the contracts, the employers
because the employees are satisfied andlabor disputes will
consequently be avoided, the employees because they
receive a larger wage than if they worked at prevailing
hourly rates of pay with time and a half for overtime as
*the statute prescribes.
.Under each contract the employees receive for the first
forty hours of the work week a guaranteed minimum

WALLING v. HARNISCHFEGER CORP.
427

435

SToNE, C. J., dissenting.

hourly wage which is equal to or greater than the minimum wage prescribed by the statute. For overtime they
receive one and one-half times the hourly wage and in
addition a bonus, the amount of which is dependent upon
the amount of piece work which they do during the work
week. The bonus constitutes an addition to the hourly
wage, both regular and overtime, so that in fact the compensation both for time and overtime is greater than the
statute requires. The only question involved in either
case is whether there is anything in the Fair Labor Standards Act which compels the bonus payment to be added
to the stipulated time and overtime hourly wage in any
different proportions than the wage itself is distributed.
The Government concedes that the statute does not
require respondents to put their piece workers on hourly
wage rates and that they may continue to pay piece work
rates and comply with § 7 of the Fair Labor Standards
Act, provided only that piece work earnings be "translated
or reduced by computation to an hourly basis for the sole
purpose of determining whether the statutory requirements have been fulfilled." Such is the effect of our decision in United States v. Rosenwasser, 323 U. S. 360, 364.
The method of translation urged by the Government
and adopted by the Court is to ascertain the average
hourly rate of pay by dividing the total weekly piece work
wage by the number of hours worked. The hourly rate
thus obtained, multiplied by the total number of hours
worked per week, plus one-half of the hourly rate multiplied by the number of work hours in excess of forty will,
it is said, give the weekly wage which the Fair Labor
Standards Act requires respondents to pay to their piece
work employees. The adoption of this method in the
present cases requires the payment of an additional
amount as overtime compensation which, according to the
Court's theory, is not compensated by the weekly piece
work wage, however high it may be.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
SToNE, C. J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

This conclusion is based on two mistaken assumptions.
One is that the weekly piece work wage, however high,
cannot be taken to include any of the wage differential
which the Act requires to be paid for overtime hours. The
other is that the statute requires that the employer, who
pays to his piece time employees a lump sum weekly wage
more than enough to pay the hourly minimum rate plus
time and a half for overtime, must nevertheless treat the
total wage as comprising only the hourly wage paid for all
the hours worked, without including anything for overtime. In short, the contention is that the statute requires
the distribution of the piece work bonus between the first
forty hours worked and the overtime hours in such proportions as would violate the statutory requirement for the
payment of an increased rate for the overtime hours. It
thus excludes the possibility that the bonus could be distributed in proportions which would compensate the first
forty hours at any hourly wage above the minimum statutory requirement and compensate for the overtime hours
at one and one-half times that rate.
To ascertain whether the piece work rate can be lawful
compensation for time and overtime for which it is paid,
the Court, like the Government, starts with the assumption that it is unlawful, not because it is inadequate in
amount but because the bonus was either not intended to
be or cannot be taken to be an appropriate increase in the
guaranteed overtime compensation, as well as an increase
in the guaranteed, regular hourly rate of pay. By assuming that a wage, ample to satisfy minimum demands of the
'statute for time and overtime, is nevertheless intended to
violate the statute by adding all of the bonus to the average hourly wage alone, the conclusion is reached that no
.increase in overtime compensation has been paid from
the bonus. The wage must therefore be correspondingly
increased in order to give added compensation for
overtime.

WALLING v. HARNISCHFEGER CORP.
427

437

STONE, C. J., dissenting.

Undoubtedly one could translate a piece work wage into
an hourly rate which would violate the statute by treating
the piece work wage as compensating for the hourly rate
without time and a half for overtime. But that has not
been done by the parties here. Such is not the necessary
effect of the bonus payment, and there is no ground for
assuming that such was intended. The fact that the
bonus is to be added to a guaranteed minimum hourly rate
for both time and overtime would seem to establish the
contrary. Certainly no employee under such a contract
could doubt that its purpose and function is to pay him
for time and overtime at a rate above the statutory minimum. Even though the bonus payments were not thus
labeled, where a lawful end may be attained by a lawful
means we are not free to assume that it was attained by
unlawful means.
The purpose of the Fair Labor Standards Act was to
insure to every worker to whom it applies a minimum
hourly wage and a fifty percent higher wage for his overtime hours. It was not to force increases in wages paid
for time and overtime which are.already above the statutory minimum. One may search the statute and its
legislative history in vain for any hint that emplpyers
who, like respondents, are paying in excess of the statutory minimum wage for time and overtime, are compelled
to increase the wage merely because they have failed to
label the pay envelope as containing the wage for both
time and overtime.
The fallacy of the position now taken becomes apparent
at once upon comparison of the following examples, in
each of which the employee works fifty hours a week, ten
of which being overtime must under the statute be compensated at an hourly wage rate of one and a half times
that paid for the first forty hours.
Example 1: The employee works upon an hourly basis
at the rate of $1.00 per hour. His wage, as the statute

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

commands, would be $40.00 for the first forty hours of
his employment and $15.00 for the ten hours of overtime
at the statutory rate of one and one-half times the agreed
hourly rate, making a total weekly wage of $55.00.
Example 2: The employment contract, as in the present cases, provides that the employer guarantee the pa ment of a fixed minimum hourly rate of pay equal to dr
greater than the statutory minimum plus one and a half
times that rate for overtime, plus such additional amount
as the employee may earn on a piece work rate. If the
guaranteed hourly rate were $1.00 an hour, and the employee's earnings at the piece work rate were $66.00, his
wage would be the weekly guaranteed minimum of $55.00
plus the $11.00 piece work bonus at the piece work rate,
or $66.00 in all. His weekly wage on the hourly basis
would be calculated as follows:
Minimum $1.00 per hour for forty hours ........ $40.00
Bonus addition 200 per hour for forty hours .....
8.00
Guaranteed minimum overtime $1.50, ten hours. 15. 00
Bonus addition for overtime 300 an hour for ten
hours ....................................
3.00
Total ................................ $66. 001
It will be noted from Example 2 that the weekly piece
work wage is sufficient ifi amount when "translated or
reduced by computation" to pay an hourly rate of $1.20
an hour for the first forty hours of work and $1.80 an hour
for the remaining ten hours of overtime. The statute, see
§ 7, requires no more.
In Example 2, the guaranteed rate of $1.00 per hour
and $1.50 per hour for overtime would satisfy every statu1

If

a equals the hourly rate the following formula would apply to

the fifty hour week in which the piece work wage is $66.00:

40a+ (1'AaX 10) =$66.00
55a = 66.00
a = $1.20, the hourly rate for forty hours.
1%a=$1.80, the hourly rate for overtime hours.

WALLING v. HARNISCHFEGER CORP.
427

439

STONE, C. J., dissenting.

tory requirement, even though no bonus were added to
the weekly wage. It seems plain that the addition of the
bonus does not involve the payment of an unlawful wage
or any omission to pay the lawful wage. If the employer
and employee can lawfully agree to work for $1.20 an
hour for the first forty hours and for $1.80 per hour for the
additional ten overtime hours, making $66.00, the weekly
piece work rate, I can find nothing in the Fair Labor
Standards Act or in the principles of fair dealing and
common sense to forbid a contract by which the employee
is paid the sum of $66.00 for a week's work of fifty hours,
or any larger amount, for piece work done in the period of
fifty hours.
No basis is suggested for saying that the employer in
satisfying the overtime requirements of the statute must
distribute a lump sum weekly piece work wage between
the wage payable for the first forty hours and that paid for
overtime in such proportions as to render the wage contract illegal rather than in proportions which express the
required statutory time and overtime wage relationship
of one to one and one-half. There is nothing in the statute requiring the wage contract, the pay envelope, or the
pay roll to designate separately the part of the weekly
wage which is for the forty hours regular time and that
portion which is paid for the additional hours of overtime.
It is enough that the weekly.wage is that mutually agreed
upon in good faith, that it is intended to pay for time and
overtime, and that it is sufficient in amount to pay for the
first forty hours at a rate above the minimum wage prescribed by the statute and to pay for the overtime at one
and one-half times that rate.
When, as here, the wage contract guarantees an hourly
wage with one and a half times that rate for overtime, it
is obviously just and reasonable and in conformity to the
statute to divide the piece work bonus between the regular
hours of work and the overtime hours in the same pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONt, C. J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

portions. Under the formula adopted by the Court the
employer could pay no piece work rate high enough to
dispense with what is thought to be the requirement to
increase the weekly wage in order to pay the wage differential for overtime for which, by hypothesis, no piece work
rate of pay compensates. Thus a piece work rate which
would pay to the employee a weekly wage sufficient to pay
several times the minimum hourly rate prescribed by the
statute for time and overtime would not be lawful without a wage increase to compensate for the overtime. Despite the Government's assurance that the statute does
not preclude employment on piece work rates, and our
decision to that effect in the Rosenwasser case, supra, the
goal of lawfulness could never be attained by the adoption of such a rate of compensation, since the piece work
wage, however great, can never be regarded as including
the wage differential for overtime even though the parties
so agree.
All this is in flat contradiction to Walling v. Belo Corporation, 316 U. S. 624, in which we held that nothing in
the Fair Labor Standards Act bars an employer from contracting to pay his employees minimum hourly rates for
time plus one and a half times those rates for overtime in
excess of the minimum statutory rates, with a lump sum
weekly guaranty which in some weeks exceeds the wage
at the stipulated hourly rate. There we held that the
guaranteed weekly wage was compensation for overtime
as well as for regular time. We decided that the contract
contemplated that the excess of he guaranteed weekly
wage over the stipulated minimum at the hourly rate was
to be so distributed as to recognize the wage differential
for overtime, in such a way as to satisfy the statutory
requirements, even though the wage contract did not
explicitly so declare. 316 U. S. at 632. That case is controlling here. In the present case the "regular rate,"
within the meaning of § 7 (a) (3) of the Act, is, as in Ex-

WALLING v. HARNISCHFEGER CORP.
427

STONE,

441

C. J., dissenting.

ample 2, the stipulated minimum hourly rate plus a part
of the bonus, and the bonus is, as the wage contracts have
treated it, an addition both to the regular rate and the
overtime rate, which the statute permits.
Neither Overnight Motor Co. v. Missel, 316 U. S. 572,
nor Walling v. Helmerich & Payne, 323 U. S. 37, is applicable here. In the Missel case "there was no contractual
limit upon the hours" which the employer could require
the employee to work for the agreed weekly wage, and "no
provision for additional pay in the event the hours worked
required minimum compensation greater than the fixed
wage," 316 U. S. at 581. Hence the court was unable to
say that the fixed weekly wage was intended by the parties
to cover both base pay and fifty percent additional for the
hours actually worked over the statutory maximum. In
the Helmerich case, supra, no attempt was made by the
employer to apply the asserted regular hourly rate to the
first forty hours of the work week, the actual wage paid
being greater. In consequence the overtime wage was
less than one and one-half times the hourly age in fact
paid during the first forty hours of the work week. This
was an obvious failure to comply with the overtime pay
requirements of the statute.
Even though Congress Could have compelled an increase in wages above the statutory minimum for time
and overtime in the case of all employers who pay wages
on the piece work basis, Congress has not done so by the
Fair Labor Standards Act or adopted any policy penalizing employers who are so misguided as to add a bonus
to a guaranteed lawful minimum hourly wage for time
and overtime. It is not our function to prescribe wage
standards or policies which Congress has not adopted.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS joins

in this opinion.

