246

SUPREME COURT.
ollins v. Thompson et al.

It is quite apparent, from the facts admitted in the case, that
this steamboat was employed in aid of vessels engaged in the
foreign or coastwise trade and commerce of the United States,
either in the delivery of their cargoes, or in towing the vessels
themselves to the port of Mobile. The character of the navigati')n and business in which it was employed cannot be distinguished fron that in which the vessels it towed or unloaded
were engaged. The lightering or towing was but the prolongation of the voyage of the vessels assisted to their port of destination. The case, therefore, is not distinguishable in principle from the one above referred to.
Judgment of the court below reversed.

SIDNEY . COLLINS, APPELLANT, v. DRuRY TompsoI ; WILLIAM
F. CLEVELAND, AND JAmES CAMPBELL'S WIDOW, HEIRS, ANI
DEviss.
Where the complainant set up in his bill that a deed, power of attorney, and

other writings, all which, as alleged, were executed in contemplation *of a suit
for the recovery of his patrimonial inheritance of which he had been unjustly
deprived, were obtained by imposition. and fraud, and also that. a deed, executed by him in the adjustment of the estate among the parties participating
in the litigation to recover it, was obtained by like fraud and imposition, held,
that upon the pleadings and proofs, the allegations are not sustained ; on the
contrary, the transactions in both respects referred to were fair, open, and

unexceptionable.

Ta:s was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of Alabama.
It was a bill filed by Collins, to set aside certain agreements,
upon the ground that he-had been imposed upon and deceived
by Thompson and the other defendants in error.
The facts are all stated in the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill, and Collins appealed
to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Swall for the appellant, and by Xv.
Smith and Mr. Benjariinfor the appellees.

DECEMBER TERVM. 1869.

247

W~lins v. Tlwmpson d a

The arguments of the counsel upon both sides were almost
exclusively directed to the evidence, and how far it sustained
the charges of fraud brought by Collins against Thompson
and the other appellees. To apply these arguments, it would
be necessary to give at least an abstract of the evidence, which
would throw no light upon any general questions of law or
equity. They are therefore passed over.
Mr. Justice NELSOI delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the southern district of Alabama.
The bill was filed by Collins, to set aside certain conveyantes of a tract of land situate in the city of Mobile, and
particularly a ded from him to the defendants, beaing date
the -15th February, 1851, on the ground of fraud and imposition in the procurement of said conveyances.
' The pleadings and proofs are very voluminous, the pleadings alone covering nearly one hundred, and including the
proofs, exceeding five hundred, closely printed octavo pages.
The bill is very inartificially drawn, being stuftd with minute
and tedious detail of what might have been proper 'evidence
of facts constituting the ground of the complaint, instead of
a concise and orderly statement of the facts themselves. This
has led to an equally minute and extended statement of the
groutids of the defence in the several answers of the defend-

ants.
In looking closely, however, into the case, and into the
nature and grounds of the relief sought, and principles upon
which it must be sustained, if at all, it will be found that the
questions really involved, as well as the material facts upon
which their determination depend, are few and simple, and
call for no very extended discussion.
The father of Collins, the complainant, died in- 1811, seized
of an interest in the tract of land in dispute. He left three
sons, !he complainant being then some two years old. The
tract subsequently passed into the possession of one Joshua
Kennedy, by. collusion between Inerarity, the administrator of
Collins the elder, and Keinnedy, the lhtter also afterwards

SUPREME COURT.
Collins v. Thompson e al.

obtaining a deed of the land from the heirs at law by fraudulent representations.
I 1844, Thompson, one of the defendants in the present
suit, residing in the city of Mobile, and having some knowledge of the original title of Collins to the land, and of the
means by which the heirs had been deprived of it, visited the
complainant, then residing in Texas, and being th6 only survivihg heir, with a view to purchase his title, or to obtain an
.arrangement with him in respect to it, so that a suit might be
instituted for the recovery of the estate. An arrangement was
agreed to accordingly, and a conveyance of the land executed
by the comnlainant.and his wife to Thompson; also, a power
of attorney, authorizing him to institute suits for the recovery
of the land-Thompson, at the same time, executing, a bond
of indemnity to the complainant against all costs and responsibilities, in consequence of the suit. The complainant was
to receive $10,000, in the event of a recovery. A suit was
subsequently instituted in the name of the complainant against
the heirs of Kennedy, in April, 1844, in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the southern district of Alabama; wat
heard upon the pleadings and proofs at the April term of the
court, in 1847, and a decree rendered in his favor; which, on
an appeal to this court,. was affirmed at the December term,
1850. The case, as reported in this court, will be found in
the 10th How., p. 174.
The litigation extended over a period of some seven years;
and, in the progress of it, besides Thompson, who had made
the original arrangement with the complainant, three other
persons had become interested, and had contributed their
services and money in bringing it to a successful terminatioi.
Ater the affirmance of the decree in this court, and confirmation of the title in complainant, all the parties concerned
met in the city of Mobile, at the office of the solicitors, for the
adjustment of their respective claims to the property recovered.
Its value had increased, during the progress of the suit, from
about $100,000, according to the estimate, to some two or
three times that amount. The complainant had originally.
Atipuloted for the sum of $10,000... In this adjustment, one-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

249

Collins v. Toimpson d al.

third of the whole estate was set apart to him, and -one-sixth
to each of the other four persons. Conveyances according tc
this d-rision were executed on the 15th February, 1851. The
complainant therefore, according to the general estimate, received $100,000, and the other four associates $50,000 each.
Now, the fraud alleged in the bill, and which is mainly
relied on for setting aside this adjustment and division of the
estate between the parties, is placed upon two grounds: 1. In
obtaining the deed of the land, powers of attorney, and other
stipulations relating to the title, dated the 18th January, 1844,
preparatory to the institution of the suit in which the property
was recovered; and 2. In the adjustment and division of
the property among the several parties above mentioned, after
the recovery had taken place, and which was consummated by
the deed of 15th February, 1851.
1. It is insisted, on behalf Qf the complainant, that, at the
time he executed the deed, powers'of attorney, 9nd the other
writings, in 1844, he was unacquainted with the value of the
property or the condition of the title; that Thompson, who
procured these instruments, and the authority to commence
the suit, was well acquainted with both; that lie fraudulently
depreciated the value of the property, *and exaggerated the
difficulties and expense attending the litigation, and thereby
deceived the complainant . This is the sul]stancc of the charge.
,There is, however, a very brief but most conclusive answer
to it, upon the pleadings and proofs in the case. It is, that Mr.
Justice CAMPBELL, whose firm had been subsequently employed
by Thompson to bring the suit against the heirs of Kennedy,
declined the retainer, and refused to have anything to do with
it, unless the complainant should not only be made sole plaintiff in the suit, but should have a substantial interest in the
estate sought to be recovered; should attend as the party in
interest in conducting the proceedings, and take part. in the
preparation for trial; and insisted that the 1preliminary
arrangement made by Thompson, including the deed of the
property and agreembnt for the payment of the $10,000,
should be abrogated and given up.* All of.which was agreed
to by Thompson and the other partieA concerned; and the

SUPREME COURT.
Co~hwn v. Thompson d~ at.

suit was commenced and carried on to a final determination,
waider this new arrangement. The complainant attended, and
participated in the preparation of the case, assisted in procuring
and it the examination of the witnesses, and admits, in his bill,
that he attended every term ot the court at Mobile, while the
cause was pending, and until the decree in his favor.
The whole arrangement, therefore, between the parties, in
respect to the property, entered into with a view to the institution .of the suit, which is complained of, having been given
up, and a new one substituted, which was not only unexceptionable, but highly equitable and just, as concerned the complainant, the charge bf fraud and imposition- depending upon
it, even if originally it had any foundation, falls with it. We
shall not sfop to inquire into the merits or justice of that arrangement, for, having been given up, they are wholly immaterial in any view of the case, as presented upon the evidence
before us.
2. The remaining ground of frnd relied on in the bill is.
that on the day of the arrival of the complainant at the city of
Mobile, from his residence in Texas, and which was his first
visit to the city after the judgment in his favor in this court,
he was requested to attend at the office of the solicitors, in the
evening, and attended accordingly, where he met the defendants, and ivas then, for the first time, informed that they had
been interested in the prosecution of the suit, and had ezpended much time and money in the litigation, and were
therefore expected to participate in the division of the property recovered. That complainant was taken by surprise when
the suggestion was made at the meeting, by the solicitor that,.
in the division, one-sixth part of the estate should be given to
each of the defendants, and including Primrose, and only onethird to himself. That, he was unprepared to act with judg.ment in the matter, having been wholly unadvised of the object
of the meeting, or of the persons who were to be present; that
no time was given him for reflection or counsel; that he wa3
ignorant of the value of the property, and incapable of acting
understandingly ulion the subject, and had no information m
to the amount he was thus suddenly called on to give a=w7.

DECEMBER TERM, 1869.

251

Wins v. Thompn d al.

That a deed was immediately prepared by the solicitor, te
carry into effect the division as suggested, and was executed:
and that this meeting was arranged by preconcert, and aftur
consultation between the defendants and others, for the purpose of entrapping and deceiving the complainant. The deed
referred to is that of 15th February, 1851, which is sought to
be set aside.
the second ground of fraud substantially as charged
This is"
in the bill; and it will be necessary to look into the answers
and proofs in the case,; with a view to see if it is sustained.
The answer of Thompson, which is responsive to this particular charge, is a denial of every material fact and circumstance
upon which the allegation of fraud rests. It states, that one
or two days after the arrival of the complainant at Mobile, he
requested him (the respondent) to go with him to the office.of
the solicitor that evening; that he had made an appointment
with the solicitor to meet the. respondent, and other persons
interested in the suit, there, in order to come to an understanding and adjustment of their respective interests. The
matters of the adjustment formed the subject of their conver.
sation during the afternoon, and down to the time of the meeting. That the respondent explained to him the understanding
he had with his associates, the other defendants, the service
they haod rendered in the suit, and the advances of money
made therein; that, after all the parties had assembled at the
office, the subject was again talked over at length, and, in the
course of the conversation, the solicitor was referred to, and
desired to suggest what, in his judgment, would be a redsonable adjustment and division of the property. Whereupon, lie
suggested a division into six parts--tWo parts to the complainant, and one to Thompson and each of his three associates;
that this appeared to be generally acquiesced in, and it was
prop~sed by some one that the papers should be drawn and
executed. But the solicitor objected, and advised them to
postpone the execut-on, and reflect upon the matter, and
when they bad come to, determination among themselves, it
would be time enoug.h ' make out the papers; that the cowpdaiuant expressed grepWpleasure and satisfaction at the divis-

S.UtEMY' COTTRT.
Coflibw v. Thom son et al.

ion; other of the parties were not satisfied. But, in a few
-days, all met at the office of Primrose, one of the parties in
interest, when thb deed of the 15th of February, 1851, was
voluntarily executed, carrying into effect the division.
The answer of Cleveland, another of the defendants, is
equally explicit. He states that the subject of the division
was talked over at the office of the solicitor; that all expressed
satisfaction at the division suggested, except .Primrose, who
objected to the allowance of two shares to the complainant, he
insisting that the time and labor of others had chiefly contributed to the success of the suit, and that complainant had originally expressed a willingness to be content with a small sum;
that the solicitor repelled the idea, and said, that although
others had been chiefly instrumental in carrying the. case
through, the title was in the complainant, and he ought to
have the largest share; that the solicitor advised the parties
to consider the matter, and, if he could aid them, to call on
him;. that the deed carrying into effect the" division was not
executed till several days, and respondent thinks a week, after
this, at the office of Primrose.
James Campbell, another of-the defendants, states that, after
the meeting at the office, the subject of the interests of the parties was talked over; that upon the division suggested by the
sclicitor all concurred, except Primrose, who'represented his
claims higher than those of complainant; that he had rendered greater services, and was entitled to a greater share.
:He depreciated complainant's title to.the estate, insisting that
he alone could have made nothing out of it, and had always
said he would be satisfied with some negroes and cattle; that
the solicitor replied to him, that without complainant's
title there could have been no recovery; and that, whatever others had done,'still the title was .in the complaindut,
and that he, the solicitor, had undertaken the suit with the
distinct understanding and agreement that complainant was
to have a substantial interest'in the recovery. The respondent denies that the deed was -drawn or executed the evening
of the meeting, nor until several days afterwards.
These several answers are directly responsive to the, charg.es

DECEM-3ER TERM, 1859.
Collim v. TAompm d al.

in the bill, 'and are to be taken as true, unless overcome by
the proofs. Instead of impeaching, the proofs are all in support of them.
Primrose, a witness on the part of the complainant, and
who was one of the parties iii interest, and present at this
meeting, confirms the fact as above stated. In his answer to
43d interrogatory, he says, in. substance, that, after conversation at the meeting relating to the subject before them, all
seemed willing to leave the division to the solicitor, who thereupon suggested one-third to. the complainant, andone-sixth to
each of the others; that he (the, witness) objected, as giving
too great a share to the complainant, and that he made some
remarks about the condition of the title, when he and the
others undertook the suit; that complainant at that time had
said hi would be satisfied With a comparatively small sum,
and that the solicitor, replied to him, that the title to the property was in -the complainant, besides making other observations which lie (the witness) did fiot recollect.
This witness further says, in'answer to the 43d cross interrogatory, speaking of the division, "All but myself did acquiesce'
'So far as I could jtLdge, the complainant was satisfied, and I
was disappointed.' "Judge Campbell maintained Collins's
right to two shares against me. The. parties talked somd of
the matters over freely and considerably. It consumed a"
winter's evening, or greater part of it." "I do knbw Collins
was pleased, and considered the settlement fair, just, and lib
eral towards him."
Judge Campbell, the solicitor, has also been a witness in
.the Case. He states that, after some reference to the subject
at the meeting, and interchange of views, one of the parties
stated that he was willing to abide by his opinion as to the

share he should be entitled to, and others indicated a wish
that he would make some suggestions as to the proper adjustment. In 'answer to which, he suggested a. division of the
property *intosix parts, and' that two should be assigned to
the complainant; that Primrose expressed dissatisfaction, in.
sisting the part to be assigned the complainant was too large*;
that his title was good for nothing, aind that the success in the

SUPREME COURT.
Commin V. Thoaoo ed A.
suit was owing to the ability with which it was prosecuted
that complainant did-not expect so large a share; that he had
said all he wanted was a few negroes and some cattle.
The witness further states, that he took pains to answer
these objections; and, after some further conversation, the
parties left his office; that he told them when they left to take
into consideration what had been said, and that if he could
be of any service to them, to call at his office again; that no
agreement was arrived at that evening, and no papers drawn
up of any agreement between the parties; that the- deed of
February, 1851, was not prepared by him till several days
after this, and that he had not learned of its execution till the
week after its preparation.
It is useless to pursue the inquiry further, as the proofs in
the case are all one way, and show that there is no foundation
whatever, not even colorable, for the charge of fraud set forth
in the bill.
Besides the entire want of proof to sustain it, the evidence
shows that posRession of the property was taken by the pafies
jointly, after the settlement, in the summer of 1851. Exten.
sive and valuable improvements were made in the course of
the years 1852-'53, under the direction of the complainant
and others. The sales in 1853 had amounted to 392,000, as
stated in the bill.
The property continued under the joint management of the
parties for the period of some three years, without eomplaint
or dissatisfaction on the part of Collins; when suddenly, withont any apparent reason or changed condition of affairs between him and his associates, he seems to have taken up the
delusion that he had been circumvented, and deceived into
an inequitable'settlement of the estate among the parties, iu
February, 1851, and for the first time set up a claim to the
whole of it.
It is suggested in the bill, that the large sales made of the
property iu 1852-.'53 afforded the complainant the first evidence of the great value of the estate; and it appears, from
3ther portions-of the case, that the increased and increasing
value of the propert.y had the eflect to unsettle the views and

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

255

Co~ns v. TAojnoi d~ A

opinions upon which be had acted in the settlement with*his
associates in February, 1851, and led to *a strong desire to
recall and review them.
But this suggested ignorance of the great value of the
property at the time of the settlement is against all the proof
in the case. His bill, filed against the. heirs of Kennedy in
April, 1944, for-the recovery of this "property, contains the
following allegation: "Your orator charges that the said
property was worth*$20,000 and upwards in .1820, $75,000 in
1880, and is probably worth $200,000 at this time."
The great value of the property, compared with the consideration paid by Kennedy, was a very material fact iWthe case.
Besides, the complainant had spent much of the time*pending
that litigation in the city of Mobile, in which the property
was situate, and must have been familiar with its value,
present and prospective. He was then in the prime of life,
and possessed of more than ordinary intelligence in business
matters, as is apparent from his corxespondence, to be found
in the record.
Having succeeded in th recovery, and obtained possession
of the estate, he seems to have forgotten the obligations he
was under to! his associates. Their. exertions and means had
been mainly instrumental in raising him from poverty to
affluence. They hbd advised him of his claim or title to the
property, collected the necessary evidence to establish it, em.ployed the counsel, and even furnished him (Collins) with the
means of support, and to enable him. to co-operate in -the
prosecution of the suit pending the litigation. The -suit was
severely contested, and was of some seven years' duration.
.Still stronger. evidence that, after his success, he was ready
to forget his obligations to those mainly contributing to it, is
the fact that his solicitor has.not even escaped his insinuations
of bad faith in his .connection with the suit, though it was
disclaimed on the argument by his counsel; thus contradictink all his opinions and feelings, strongly and repeatedly expressed pending the suit, and long after its termination and
the settlement between the parties. The solicitor had io interest in the property or in its distribution. his fee was not

SUPREME COURT.
Kimbro v. BllW et al.

dependent upon it. He was, therefore, wholly disinterested
in the matter, and well situated to act s the friend of all
parties in the settlement.
As we have already stated, before the commencement of the
suit, he refused to be connected with it, unless the complainant should be pdrmitted to have a substdtntial interest in the
estate, and repudiated the arrangement by which he was to
receive only $10,000. After the recovery, and in the settlement among the parties, he stood firmly by this original
understanding, and insisted that he should have a double
share. So far as appear from the evidence, it is entirely
owing to the sense of justice and firmness of Judge Campbell
(the solicitor) that .the complainant is now in the possession
and enjoyment of some $100,000 of his patrimonial inheritance, instead of the $10,000 for which he himself had stipulated.
Tle decree of the court below is affirmed.

JOSEPH KIMBItO, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. CUTHBERT BULLITT,

THOMAS D. MILLER, AND LLOYD D. ADDISON, PARTNERS IM
TRADE UNDER THE NAME AND STYL

oF BULLIRT, MBLDI,

& Co.
Where biliskof exchange were drawn by the principal acting partner of h firm
in the name of the firm, all the partners were responsible.
Whenever thare are written articles of agreement between the partgers, their
power and authority, inter se, are to be ascertained and regulated by the
terms and- conditions of the written stipulations. But, independently of any
such stipulations, each partner possesses an .qual and general power and
authority, in behalf of the firm, to transact any business within the scope hnd
objects of the partnership, and in the course of its trade and business.
Where partnerships are formed for the mere purpose of farming, one partner
does not posess the right, 'without the consent of his associates, to draw or
accept bills of exchange, fbr the reason that such a practie is not usual, nor
is it necessary ibr carrying on the farming businss. In the present case, the jury found that this was a trading hrm, and their verdict
is conelwive.
The right of the, acceptors, who had paid the money, to recover 1'rdm the drawero,
cannoi be ailected.by the fact that one of the drawers had applied the money
to an unlawfl purpose.

