SUPREME COURT.
Overton d dZ. v. CMcd a a.

Jonq OVERTON, ROBERT C. BRINKLEY, ROBERTSOx Topp, AND
JAMES JENKINS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. EITJAH CHEEK AND
GEORGE W.

CHEEK.

Where a writ of error was allowed i open court, in the Circuit Court, but this

writ had no seal, and was not returned to this court with the transcript of the
record, and two terms afterwards a paper was filed in the clerk's office, in

form, of a writ of error, but without a seal, and having no authenticated
'transcript annexed, the cause must be dismissed on motion.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of West Tennessee.

M.r. Dav*e moved to dismiss the writ*for the following
reasons, which motion was opposed by Ur. G..
In this cause, a transcript of the record was filed in the
office of the clerk of this court on the eighteenth day of February, 1858, and the cause was thereupon docketed. No writ
of error was returned with the transcript; nor has any writ of
error, in a legal sense, ever been returned. But on the twentyseventh day of December, 1859, a paper was filed in the
clerk's office, in form of a writ of error, but without the seal
of the Circuit Court, whose proceedings are to be re-examined,
and without an authenticated transcript of the record annexed
to and returned with it, as required by the judiciary act.
By reference to the transcript, it will appear that the judgment of the Circuit Court was rendcred on the sixteenth day
of April, 1857. At the ensuing term of this court, the transcript was filed. The paper filed in the clerk's office purports
to have been issued by the clerk of the Circuit Court on the
seventeenth day of April, 1857, and it is returnable to this
court on the first Monday of December, 1857. It does not
appear ever to have been filed in the Circuit Court. There isno citation.
It is submitted1. That in order to give jurisdiction to this court, the writ
if error must be under the seal of the Circuit Court, whose

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Overton et al. v. Cheek et aL,

clerk is authorized to issue it. Act of Congress of May
eighth, 1792, see. 9; (1 Statutes at Large, 278.)
2. That the writ of error must be returned at the ensuing
term. If a term intervene, the objection is fatal.
Hamilton v. Moore, 8 Dallas, 871.
Steamer Virginia v. West et al., 19 Howard, 182.
Villalobos v. United States, 6 Howard, 81.
United States v. Carey, ib., 106.
8. That there must be annexed to, and returned with, the
-writ, an authenticated transcript of the record. Without the
writ, the transcript is filed without authority of law; and a
writ of error without the record of the court to be reviewed,
or reasons for not returning it, is not returned. Here the writ
of error comes back as it went out. There is no return, and
hence no jurisdiction.
4. The writ does not appear to have been filed in the Circuit Court.
Brooks v. Norris, 11 Howard, 204.
5. There was no citation, and no legal evidence of the
waiver of the citation. The transcript filed does show that
the .citation was waived; but that transcript is not legally
before this court, not having been returned in obedience to,
process.
6. That the transcript was not returned in conformity with
law and the rules of this court.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This purports to be a writ of error to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the district of West Tennessee.
By reference to the transcript, it appears that the judgment
of the Circuit Court was rendered the sixteenth of April, 1857.
At the ensuing term of the Supreme Court, the transcript was
filed.
It appears that a writ of error in the Circuit Court was
allowed, in open court, and signed by the clerk the seventeenth tlay of April, 1857, which was returnable to the Supreme
Court on the first Monday of December, 1857. But this writ
had no seal, nor was it returned with the transcript to the

SUPREME COURT.
eAsos et al. v. Leand et al.

Supreme Court. But on the twenty-seventh of December.
1.859, a paper was filed in the clerk's office, in. form of a writ
of error, but without a seal, and having no authenticated transcript annexed.
From this it appears that no writ of error has been certified
with the transcript, and that the paper purporting to be a writ
of error, which was flied in December last, being without seal,
was void. Two terms of this court have intervened, not ineluding the -present term, since the transcript was certified,
without a writ of error.
The cause must therefore be- dismissed for these irregularities, without noticing others apparent on the record.

STEPHEN 0. NELSON, ELLISON BANKSMITH, HENRY C. WALKER,
AND THOMAS A. NELSON, PARTNERS UNDER THE FIRM OF S.
0. NELSON & Co., APPELLANTS, v. Lucius C. LELAND, JOHN
H. CooxE, DUNCAN C. WILLIAMS, AND MORAE, COFMANI, &
CO., CLAIMANTS OF THE STEAMER BRIGADIER GENERAL

R. H.

SToxEs.
In a collision which took place between a steamboat and a flat-boat on the
Yazoo river, more than two hundred miles from its mouth where it falls into
the Mississippi river, both vessels were in fault-the flat.boat, becattse it
had not one or more steady and fixed lights on one or more conspicuous parts
of the boat, ad because of its erroneous position in the river; and the steam.
boat, because the master, seeing a liglt ahead, did not stop his boat, and reverse her wheels, until the locality of the light was clearly ascertained.
The collision tool, place within the admiralty jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States.
Upon a motion to dismiss an appeal, upon the ground of a want of jurisdiction
originally in the District Court, the question of jurisdictidn in that court is a
proper one for appeal to thlis court, and for argument when the case is regu.
larly reached. This court have jurisdiction on such an appeal. The motion to
dismiss, upon that ground, must therefore be overruled.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

States for the eastern district of Louisiana, sitting in admiralty.

