'392

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Teschmaker el al.

defend himself by pleading that these complainants might
have got their satisfaction out of B quite as well. It is true,
if it be necessary to a complete satisfaction to the complainants that the corporation be treated as an insolvent, the court
may appoint a receiver, with authority to collect and receive
all the debts due to the company, and administer all its assets.
In this way, all the other stockholders or debtors may be made
to contribute.
For these reasons, we are of opinion that the decree of the
Circuit-Court should be reversed, with costs, and that the
record be remanded, with instructions to that court to enter a
decree for the complainants against the respondents severally,
for such amount as it shall appear was due and unpaid by
each of them bn their shares of the capital stock of the Knox
Insurance Company, and to have such other and further proceedings as to justice and right may appertain.

Tim UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, v. HENRY F. TESCHMAKER,

JOSEPH P. THompsoN, GEORGE H. HOWARD, AND JULIUS K.
ROSE.
Where none of the preliminary steps required by tle act of 1824 and regulations
of 1828 have been observed or shown, as there required, previous to the grant,
and no record of the title, as also there required, and"but slight evidence of
possession, either as to value or permanency, the proof of the genuineness of
the official signatures to the grant is not sufficient. Evidence, under the cir-

cums.iunces of grants in California, should be given so as to make the antedating of the grant irreconcilable with the weight of the proof; otherwise,
there can be no protection against imposition and fraud.
The record of the title must be shown, or its absence accounted for to the satis
faction of the court.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The state of the title and a brief summary of the, evidence
are'given in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by the Attorney General and Hk~r. Slnzton for
the United States, and by Mr. Gillet for the appellees.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Uaie States v. Te clmakr el aL

The counsel for the United States stated the case, both as to
the nature of the title and the evidence to support it, and then
summed up the whole as follows:
Claimant derives title through Salvador and Juan Antonio
Vallejo.
October 11, 1838.-Salvador Vallejo and Juan Antonio Vallejo petition their brother, M. G. Vallejo, who is styled by
them "commandante general and director of colonization of
this frontier," to grant eight leagues'to each of them.
March 15, 1839.-Permission to occupy the lands they petitioned for, given by M. G. Vallejo.
September 5,1844.-Grantby Micheltorena of sixteen leagues,
more or less--"La Laguna de Lup-Yomi." Micheltorena's
name is signed to the grant. No attestation by secretary, but
at the foot is this:
"Note has been made of this decree in the proper book, on
folio 4. In the absence of the commandante,
"FRutxo'o C. ARoB."
Salvador Vallejo testifies that he and his brother got leave
to occupy the land from another brother. Immediately after
this permission was obtained, they stocked land with horses,
Cattle, and hogs. Afterwards, applied to the Governor for a
itle; it was sent him (S. Vallejo) by a courier. Swears that
a map produced is true, but don't know if it was presented to
the Governor when title was asked for. Does not say that he
credited th6 Government with $2,500, or any other sum, out
of his pay.
Juan Castenada knows the ranch was granted to the two
Vallejos about 1844 or 1845, and they proceeded to occupy
the land immediately after the grant, namely, in 1844 or 1845;
yet he admits he knows nothing about the execution of the
paper, an(Inever was on the place in his life 1 This swift wit.
ness testifies, without hesitation, to the handwriting of all the
Vallejos, of Micheltorena, and of Arce, being all the names on
ull the papers.
William D. M. Howard testifies to handwriting of Vallejo,
Micheltorena, and Arce.

SUPREME COURT.
UnWed Slates v. Tescmaker et al.

Salvador Vallejo (called again) testifies that he stocked the
farm and built houses, &c., on land in 1842 or 1843, and solicited title from the Governor in 1843 or 1844; applied to Alcalde Jos6 de la Rosa for judicial possession. Rosa was afraid
of Indians. When asked what the houses cost, he answered.,
"A great deal of meat and spunk."
Jos6 de Ia Rosa was appoihted alcalde June 22: 1845; June
25, was called on by Salvador Vallejo to give judicial possession of Ltup-Yomi; did not do so, merely because "there was
a large revolution among the Indians," which continued until
the middle of August; nobody killed.
Jos6 Ramon Carillo testifies that the boundaries of the
ranch were natural, mountain and lake; occupied by stock in
1842 or 1843.
This constitutes the whole of the evidence. It will be seen
that the grant, if made at all, was made without any previous
petition, investigation, reference, or report; no map; no order
of concession; no registry. Arce's certificate, (or the certificate with his name to it,) that note had been taken of this
title in the proper book, is false. The proper book is here,
and it contains no such thing. There is not a vestige or trace
of this title, or anything like it, to be found among all the
records of the Department.
This title was never produced, nor its existence publicly
asserted, in any way whatever, before the 25th August, 1852,
when the deed from Salvador Vallejo to the claimants was
acknowledged. before a not ry. The deed from Juan to Salvador Vallejo is dated the 30th of December, 1849, but it
was not acknowledged or recorded; nor does it appear ever to
have been seen by anybody but the parties.
Salvador Vallejo and Carillo, their brother-in-law, swear
that there was a sort of possession in 1842 or 1843, with some
improvements, which, the former witness says, cost a great
deal of meat and spunk. But they do not say, and there is no
reason to believe, that the title now set up was exhibited, or
the land claimed under it. Juan Castenada says the posses.
sion was not taken until after the grant in 1844 or 1845.
1. The grant is illegal, for want of a petition, map, inquiry, &c.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

395

VUd States v. Tesokmathr d a

2. It is not proved, because a grant produced from the private custody of the claimant, without any record of it among
the archives, is no grant at all.
3. It is false, forged, fabricated.
If it had been really made by the Governor at the time it
bears date, why was it not recorded? Why was the false note
of Arbe placed at the foot of it?
The bad character of the Vallejos, as well as of their principal witnesses, renders it extremely probable that all the papers,
including the petition for license to occupy, the license itself,
and the pretended grant from the Governor, are sheer fabrications, fraudulently got up long after the change of Government.
The chief of the Vallejos (General Mariano) was a professional witness, until his credit ran down so low that he was
no longer worth calling. In the case of Luco v. the United
States, it was proved that he had forged a grant; and the
claim under it was rejected, on that ground alone.
Juan Castenada is a well-known professional witness. So
is Francisco Arce, who falsely certifies that this grant was
recorded in the proper book.
The grant is dated in September, 1844. That was the very
time at which the Vallejos were banding themselves and their
followers against Micheltorena, to drive him from the country,
and he knew it. It is not probable that he was making grants
of valuable land to them at such a time.
Mr. Gilkt, for the appellees, considered the following positions to be established by the evidence in the case:
I. A grant was made by Governor Micheltorena to Salvador
and Juan A. Vallejo, on the 5th of September, 1844, for the
premises in question.
II. The grantees settled upon and occupied the land
granted.
III. Judicial possession was not given, because the magistrate applied to was afraid of the Indians.
IV. The United States offered no evidence in this case on
any point, by way of contradiction or explanation, or otherwise, but left that of the claimants wholly unquestioned.

SUPREME COURT.
Undtd M&8 v. Teschmaer a a&.

Under such circumstances, where the claimants made die,
tinct proof of a fact, if they swore but a single witness to prove
it, they had a clear right to consider such fact sufficiently
proved, and this court must so consider it.
V. No objection was raised before the board, except that the
conditions subsequent had not been performed, and that the
localities and boundaries were not given with sufficient definiteness, and these were removed by testimony taken in the
District Court.
Each of these positions was sustained by reference to the
evidence, after which Mr. Gillet pr6ceeded to divide his argument into several points, of which only tvio will be reported,
as being-those upon which the decision of the court turned:
VI. By the laws, usages, and customs of Mexico, a grant
is valid, whether the usual preliminary formalities were observed or not.
The act of 1851, (9 U. S. L., 683, see. 1,) under which these
proceedings were had, provides that the board and courts shall
be "governed by the treaty of Guadalupe 1idalgo, the law of
nations, the law, usages, and customs of the Government,
from whiQh the claim is derived, the principles of equity, and
the decisions of the Supreme Court, as far as they are applicable."
The grantees' right's are the sante under the treaty and the
laws of nations. Whatever rights they had, whether perfect
or imperfect, ffill and complete or otherwise, are protected
under both.
In equity, all rights. whether legal and perfect, or equitable
and imperfect, are protected, and can be enforced. Congress
declared that those having rights of any kind shoudi have a!l
the advantages that a court of equity could: decree them. The
rules appliqd in ccjuity cases should apply in these. It is a
well-settled rule that a court of equity cannot apply. its powers
to confirm or enforce a lbribiture, while there is another which
requires it to exert them, whenever practicable, to prevent
forfeitures, and to set them aside, and to relieve against them
in all proper cases.
In these land eases, except where the title is a strictly legal

DECEMBER TERM, 1859
Uniled SMate, v. Tsc maker ef aL.

one, the whole case is an equitable one, and the court deals
exclusively in equitable principles, and enforces them. Every
right which is not strictly legal is equitable, and its extent is
immaterial.
The claimant shows that be has received some sort of title
from the Government, and calls upon the courts, under the
law of 1851, to confirm it. Here he is met by a claim of forfeiture, and, in the exercise of equity powers, the court is requested to enforce it. The law is too well settled that this
cannot be done, to require the citation of authorities.
In the present case, the grant cannot be questioned. But
it is objected that there were formalities usually observed
which were omitted. If these were required by positive law
to confer a legal title, they are not required to create an equitable one. If these had been observed, the Assembly having
confirmed, the title would have been a legal title, and beyond
the control of the Government, except where-a third party
had secured rights by denouncement for non-performance of
conditions. In this case, the proof shows that everything has
been done that was required by the strictest practice, if we
except the presentation of a petition, &c. But there is no law
declaring even the legal title void, if there was no petition;
much less can it be void in equity. Something was done, and
a title was given. This clearly creates an equitable right.
The party received and acted upon it. He took possession
and occupied under it. Is there anything to defeat this equi.
table right? lNo subsequent act is set up by the Government
or a third party for that purpose. All that can be said against
it is this: that it was not acquired with the formalities which
are supposed to be necessary to create a complete legal right.
But no one will contend that an equitable right is invalid
because it was not. acquired in the same manner that is required to vest legal rights, because, if that were so, an equitable rightecould not be acquired at all, for all rights would then
be legal rights. The very object of a court of equity is to
relieve in those cases which are defective, under the strict
rules of law.
Mexico did not sell her lands. She gave them away to have

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Tesc1hmaker et al.

theni used, and they were principally used for raising horses
and cattle. This very grant wvas applied to that purpose a1
soon as it was safe to put cattle and horses there, and as early
as Fremont took possession of the Alvarado grant. The
Government got all it expected from this or any other grantee.
If Mexico had not ceded to the United States, there can be no
pretence that, under her usages and customs, this grant would
have been held a nullity by her judicial or other authorities.
No one claimed it by denouncement. If, in September, 1844,
the grantee had any interest, either equitable or legal, nothing
has been done by Mexico, or her grantee, the United States,
to defeat or annul it. The latter could not do so. Could
Governor Micheltorena, the day affer making this grant, have
declared it *null and void, and have taken the land from the
grantee, and made it a part of the public domain? Clearly
not. In Reading's case, (18 How., 1, 7,) this court said: "In
other words, from our reading of these decrees, the Governor
could not either directly recall a grant made by him, or indirectly nullify it, when it had been conformably with them, the
*laws and regulations." If he could not, then the grant must
be held to convey an interest which has not been and now
cannot be taken from the grantee. When Mexico ceded to
us, the power to take away a grant by denouncement ceased.
There is no law by which the United States can take away
lands which have been granted; or. authorize any one to do so.
Their rights, and those of the grantees, niow stand just as they
did on the day the treaty was made. 'If these grantees then
had any right in equity, they have it now. That they then
had some right, and were in the occupation of the lands under
it, cannot be denied, and consequently they now have the
same, and the court must confirm it.
IX. The regulations specifying preliminary steps to be
taken in.applications for grants aie merely directory, and may
be dispensed with without vitiating the grant.
The regulation of November 21, 1828, is as follows:

"2. Every person soliciting lands, whether he be an impres-

sario, head of a family, or single person, shall address to the
Governor of the respective territory a petition, setting forth

DECEMTBER TERM, 1859.

399

lTUited ,States v. Teschmaker et al.

his name, country, profession, the number, description, religion, and other circumstances, of the families or persons with
whom he wishes to colonize, describing as distinctly as possible, by means of a map, the lands asked for."
There is no provision declaring that the grant shall be invalid if there is no petition to the Governor, in .writing, specifying the various particulars thus enumerated. Every part
of these directions, including the furnishing a map, stands
upon the same ground. The regulation merely directs what
is deemed proper to be done, but declares no consequences if
there shall be omissions. Being merely directory, if not
strictly pursued, it does not affect the rights of the party receiving the grant. It is not probable that, in all the cases
confirmed. by this court, there is one where the petition has
conformed in every particular with this regulation. By the
regulation, a map is just as essential as a petition. It is a
highly important document. But it appears only in a part of
the cases before this court. It was not shown in Ritchie's,
Arguello's, or Peralta's case, Reading's, or Fossat's, or Fremont's case. On the contrary, in the latter case the petition
showed there was no map, and an excuse was offered for not
presenting one. This court held that the map was not essen-_
tial, and confirmed the grant made without it. In 17 How.,
561, the Chief Justice said: "According to the regulations
for granting lands, it was necessary that a plan or sketch of
its lines and boundaries should be presented with the petition;
but in the construction of these regulations, the Governors
appear to have exercised a discretionary power to dispense
with it under certain circumstances. It was not required in
the present instance. The reason assigned for it in the petiton was, the difficulty in preparing it, the land lying in a
wilderness country, on the confines of the wild Indians. This
.reason was deemed by the Governor sufilcient, and the grant
issued without it; and in deciding upon the validity of a
Mexican grant, the court could not, without doing injustice
to individuals, give to the Mexican laws a more narrow and
strict construction than they received from the Mexican authorities wl-o were intrusted with their execution. It is the

SUPREME COURT.
UniWe Rat v. Tesclamaxr ed al.

duty of the court to protect the rights obtained under them,
which would have been regarded iis vested and valid by the
Mexican authorities. And, as the Governor deemed himself
authorized, under the circumstances, to dispense with the
usual plan, and his decision in this respect was sanctioned by
the other officers intrusted with the execution of the law, it
must be presumed that the power he exercised was lawful,
and that the want of a plan did not invalidate the grant. The
fact that the country where the land was situated was such a
wilderness, and bordered on such dangerous neighbors, that
no plan could then be prepared, is proved by these documents; and that fact, officially admitted, is worthy of consideration, when we come to the inquiry whether there was any
unreasonable delay in taking possession; for, dispensing with
the plan or draft on that account, which was a condition
precedent, it may justly be inferred that the conditions subsequent were not expected by the Governor to be performed,
nor their performance intended to be exacted, until the state
of the country would permit it to be done with some degree
of safety."
Now, if the Governor can dispense with one condition precedent, or requirement of the regulation, he can with another,
without rendering the title invalid in equity. The omission
here is no greater than in Fremont's case, and the same indulgence must be shown.
In the' United States v. Sutherland, (19 How., 368, 364,)
this court said:
"In construing grints of land in California, made undei
the Spanish or Mexican authorities, we must take into view
the state of the country and the policy of the Government.
The population of California, before its transfer to the United
States, was very sparse, consisting chiefly of a few military
posts and some inconsiderable yillages. The millions of acres
of land around them, with the -exception of a mission or a
rancho on favored spots, were uninhabited and uncultivated.
It was the interest and policy of the King of Spain, and afterwards of the Mexican Government, to make liberal grants of
these lands to those who would engage to colonize or settle

DECEMBER ,TERM, 1859.
United States v. Teschmaker e al.

upon them. Where land is plenty and labor is scarce, pasturage and raising cattle promised the greatest reward with
the least labor. Hence, persons who established- ranchos
required and received grants of large tracts of country as- a
range for pasturage for their numerous herds. Under such
circumstances, land was not estimated by acres or arpens. A
.quare league, or ' sitio de ganado mayor,' appears to have
been the only unit in estimating the superlicies of latd.
Eleven of these leagues was the usual extent for a rancho
grant."
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from .adecree of the District Court of the
United States for the northern district of California.
The case involved a claim to sixteen square leagues of land
known by the name of "'La Laguna de Lup-Yomi," situate
north of Sonoma, in the county of Napa, California. It was
presented to the board of land commissioners on behalf of the
appellees, who derived their title from the two brothers, Salvador .and Juan Antonio Vallejo, claiming to be the original
grantees of the Mexican Government. The board rejected
the claim, but, on appeal to the District Court, and the pro.
duction of further evidence, that court affirmec it. The first document produced is a petition of the two brothers, S. and J. A. Vallejo, to the senior commandant general
and direct-or of the colonization of the fr6ntiers, for a grant of
eight leagues of land each, reciting that they were desirous of
establishing a ranch in the Laguna de Lup-Yomi, situate
twenty leagues north of this place, (Sonoma,) which tract is
uncultivated, and in the power of a multitude of savage Indians, who have committed and are daily committing many
depredations; and being satisfied that the tract does not belong to any corporation or inlividuals, they earnestly ask the
grant, offering to domesticate the Indians, and convert them
by gentle means, if possible, to a better system of life. Salvador Vallejo adds, that being in actual service in quality of
captain of cavalry, and not having received his pay, he proposes to apply $2,500 out of his pay for his portion of the
voL. xxT.
26

SUPREME COURT.
Unit

Staks v. Tescim7e el al.

land. This petition was dated at Sonoma, October 11th,
1838.
Under date of March 15th, 1839, the senior commandant
general, M. G. Vallejo, a brother of the petitioners, accedes to
their petition so far as to permit them to occupy the tract,
but, for the accomplishment of the object, they must hasten
to ask a confirmation from the Departmental Government,
which will issue the customary titles; and, at the same time,
they must endeavor to reduce the wild nature of the Indians,
assuring them that the Government wishes a treaty and friendship with them.

The next document is a title, in form, granted by the Governor, Micheltorena, dated Monterey, 5th September, 18,14.
At the foot of the grant is a memorandum, as follows:
"Note-has been made of this decree in the proper book, on
folio 4.
"In the absence of the commandante,
IFxRANcIs. C. ARoE."
The signatures of M. G. Vallejo to the permit of occupation,
and of Micheltorefna and F. C. Arce, the Governor and acting
secretary, are genuine, if three witnesses are to be believedCastenada, W. D. M. Howard, and Salvador Vallejo, one of
the original grantees. The proof of possessiau and occupation
is slight, and not entitled to much consideration, in passing
upon the equity or justice of the title, or even upon its bona
fides.
This proof rests mainly upon the testimony of S. Vallejo.
He was examined twice on the subject-once when the case
was before the board of commissioners, and again when on
appeal before the district judge. In his first examination, he
states, that immediately after permission was given to occupy
the ranch (March, 1889) he placed, on the land about one
thousand head of cattle, between three and four hundred head
of horses, and from eight hundred to one thousand head of
hogs; that he built a house on the land the same year, and
also corrals, and left an overseer and servants in charge of the
ulace.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

408

United States v. Tescvmaker d aL.

In his second examination, he states, that in the year 1842
or 1843 he placed cattle on the ranch, built a house and corrals, and in the year 1843 or 1844 received a title for the land;
that he then lived on it, but was frequently absent visiting
his house and lot in Sonoma, and his other farms, but always
left a mayor domo on the ranch; and during this time he
cultivated beans, corn, pumpkins, watermelons, &c. The
last house he built on the place was about the time the country was invaded by the Americans. That during the time
mentioned he had on the place from 1,500 to 2,000 head of
cattle, 500 to 600 head of horses, and front 1,590 to 2,000 head
of hogs, He further states, that most of his stock was subsequently stolen and driven off by the Indians and emigrants.
This evidence is slightly corroborated by the testimony of
Castenada and Carillo.
From the numerous cases that have already been before us,
as well as from our own inquiries into the customs and usages
of the inhabitants of California, especially those engaged in
the business of raising cattle and other stock, this mode of
occupation furnishes very unsatisfactory evidence of possession and cultivation of the land in the sense of the colonization
laws of Mexico. Any unappropriated portion of the public.
lands was open to similar possession and occupation without
objection from' the public authorities. Indeed, according io
the laws of the Indies, the pastures, mountains, and waters,
in the provinces, were made common to all the inhabitants,
with liberty, to establish their corrals and herdsmen's huts
thereon, and freely to enjoy the use thereof, and a penalty of
five thousand ounc.es of gold was imposed on every person
who should interrupt this common right. (2 White's Recop., 56.)
There is also a fact stated by.the witness Vallejo himself,
that is calculated to excite distrust'as to the extent of the possession and occupation, and for the purpose stated. He says
that there were constant revolutions among the Indians at the
time; that it was unsafe for families to live there, and that
the alcalde at Sonoma refused to deliver him judicial possession in 1845, on account of the danger..

SUPREME COURT.
Unitd Siter v. Tescimaker dt AZ

It is quite apparent, also, from the testimony of this witness,
that the huts built for the herdsmen of the cattle were of a
most unsubstantial and temporary character. 1o possession
of any kind is shown since the cattle and other stock wore
carried off by the Indians and emigrants. When that took
place does not appear; but doubtless as early as the first disturbances in the country, in-the fore part of the year 1846.
The possession and occupation, therefore, even in the loose
and general way stated, was only for a comparatively short
time.
We have said that the signatures of the officers to the documentary evidence of the title are.genuine, if we can believe
the witnesses--Castenada, Howard, and Vallejo;. but, as all of
these officials were living after the United States had taken
possession of the country during the war, and even after the
cession by Mexico, and, with the exception of the Governor,
resided in California, these signatures may be genuine, and
still the title invalid. It was practicable to have made the
grant in form genuine, but ante-dated.
The permit to take possession of the tract, in connection
with the. short and unsubstantial character of the possession,
is not of much importance in making out the claim. Vallejo
had no power to dispose of the public lands. We do not
understand that his permission to occupy,'as director of colonization on the frontiers, laid the Governor or Mexican Government under any obligations to grant the title. If followed by
valuable and permanent improvements, considerations might
arise in favor of a claimant that should influence a Government, when called upon to grant the property to another. We
think, therefore, that the claim rests chiefly, if not entirely,
upon the grant of the title by the Governor of the 4th September, 1844.
This grant stands alone. lNone of the usual preliminary
steps pescribed by the regulations of 1828, such as the petition,
marginal reference for a report as to the situation and condition
of the land, roport of the proper officers and minute of concession, were observed. These, with satisfactory proof of the
signatures to the papers, give some character to the grant, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
United State v. Tesclmaker d a7.

tend to the establishment of its genuineness. Even the permit of Vallejo is not noticed by the Governor, nor any present
occupation of the premises by the grantees.
So far, therefore, as respects the title, or even any rightful
claim to the tract, it depends mainly upon proof of the signatures of Mioheltorena and of F. 0. Arce, the acting secretary. There is no record of the title in the proper book,
shown in the case, nor exists in fact, as it is understood this
book of records exists for the years 1844, 1845, and no record
is there found. The memorandum, therefore, at the foot of
the grant, by Arce, the secretary, "Note has been made of
this decree in the proper book, on folio 4," is untrue. Nor
has there been found any approval of the grant by the Departmental Assembly, for those records are extant, as found in
the Mexican archives. These archives are public documents,
which the court has a right to consult, even if not made formal
proof in the case. The absence of any record evidence is remarkable, if the title is genuine, as one of the grantees, Juan
Antonio Vallejo, resided at the time in Monterey, where these
records were kept, and where all the formalities of a regular
Mexican grant might readily have been complied with. The
parties, also, were men of more than ordinary intelligence, and
belong to one of the most influential Mexican families o the
Territory, and doubtless well understood the regulations concerning grants of the public domain.
The non-production of this record evidence of the title,
under the circumstances, is calculated to excite well-grounded
suspicions as to its validity, and throws upon the claimant the
burden of producifig the fullest proof of which the party is
capable of the genuineness of the grant. We do not say that
the absence of the record evidence is of itself necessarily fatal
to the proof of the title; but it should be produced, or its
absence accounted for to the satisfaction of the court.
* We have already said, that the genuineness of the official
signatures to the paper title might be established, and yet the
title forged, and 9tated our reasons. Proof of the genuineness
of these alone can never be regarded as satisfactory. It nfiust
be carried farther by the claimant. The record proof is, gener.

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Po.

ally speaking, the highest. Possession and occupation of some
duration, permanency, and value, are next entitled to weight.
At least, satisfactory evidence should be required, under thE:
circumstances in which most of these Mexican grants were
made, as to make the ante-dating of any given grant irrecon.
cilable with the proof; otherwise, there can be no protectior
against imposition and fraud in these cases.
The decree of the court below reversed, and the case remanded for further evidence and examination.

THE UNITED

STATES, APPELLANATS, V.

AwDREs Pico.

Where the preliminary proceedings to a grant of land in California were not produced, and the grant and certificate of approval came from, the hands of the
claimants, no record of them being found among the Mexican archives or in
any book, nor is there any evidence of possession or occupation deserving
notice or consideration, the case will be remanded to the court below for

further evidence.

TmIs was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The state of Pico's title is mentioned in the opinion of the
court, and need not be repeated.
The case was argued by the Attorney General and MLIr.
Stnton for the United States, and by Mfr. Gilt for the appellee. It was very similar to the preceding case of Teschmaker.
The Attorney General's statement of the evidence and argument upon it was as follows:
This is a claim for eleven leagues of land called Moquelemos, which the claimant alleges, in his petition to the board
of cbmmissioners, was granted to him by his brother, Pie
Pico, in the month of May, 1844, and confirmed to him in
June, 1846. • The land lies on the Moquelemos river, in what
is now the county of Calaveras.
The documentary evidence of title produced by the claim.
ant is:

