SUPREME COURT.
014rk d~Al v. Bowan d a!.

HIENRY 0. CLARK, hA JUSTIN, Jum., AN
PLAINTIFFS

MCNAMEE,

A. HA

S IH,

IN ERROR, V. HENRY C. Bowzu, THEODORr
SAMUEL P. HoLMES, AND HERY L. SToiE, Dr-

FENDANTS.
'An arrangement was made between creditor and debtor houses, that the latter
should execute an assignment, and confess judgment, and that the former
should give a receipt in full, and agree that the notes of the debtor house
should be cancelled.
The assignment was made, the judgment confessed, and the receipt given.
A solvent partner of the debtor house was absent, and neither consented to the
assignment nor to the confession of judgment, and upon his motion the judgment was vacated as to him, as being confessed without authority.
The judgment was then vacated as to all the partners, and the assigned property
taken out of the hands of the trustee by a prior claiin. Whereupon the
creditor house brought suit upon the notes which had not been destroyed.
The whole arrangement to secure the debt being in effect annulled, the original
indebtedness stood revived, and judgment was properly rendered upon the
notes,

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the United States for the district of Wisconsin.
The facts were these:
In 1854; the defendants in error were merchants in New
York, trading under the name of Bowen & Mc~amee, and

-the plaintiffs in error, merchants in Wisconsin, trading under
the name 4fH. 0. Clark & Co.
In. July, 1854, H. 0. Clark & Co. had notes outstanding,
due to the firm of Bowen k McNamee, to the amoutit of
$7,950.75. Being embarrassed, an arrangement was made
between them and the -agent of Bowen & Mcl amee, to the
following effect, viz:
1. That they would make an assignment for the benefit of
their creditors.
2. That they would confess a judgment in favor of Bowen
& McNamee in the Circuit Court fc r Rock county, (State
court.)

8. That the agent should give them a receipt in full, and
agree that the notes should be cancelled.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

271

Clark dt aL. v. Bown d ad.

All these things were done. The assignment was made,
the judgment entered, and the receipt given.
Whilst these transactions were going on, Smith was absent.
On the 17th of August, 1854, the assigned property was
taken out of the hands of the trustee, in virtue of a mortgage
prior in date to the assignment just mentioned. Smith, finding that the weight of the judgment would fall upon his
private property, applied to the court of Rock county to have
the judgment vacated as to him, upon the ground that it had
been entered without sufficient authority. This application
was successful, and the court vacated the judgment as to

him.
A bill was filed in the District Court of the United States
by Bowen & McNamee, in conjunction with some other
creditors, to enforce the assignment made for their benefit.
No further notice need here be .taken of this bill than to say,
that it was dismissed without prejudice.
After thd judgment was vacated as to Smith,. Bowen &
McNamee applied to the court to vacate the judgment as to
Clark and Justin also. This was granted, and the judgment
vacated entirely.
The assignment for the benefit of Bowen & McNamee being.
thus ineffectual, and the judgment vacated, tbey considered
that the entire arfangbment with H. 0. Clark & Co. had
become nu.ll and void; and iai 1856 th6y commenced a suit
in the District Court of the United States, upon the promissory notes of H. O. Clark & Co., the possession of which they
had retained. Several questions were raised upon the trial,
which it is not iaterial to notice; the principal one being an
exception to the chargq of the court, which was in substance
as follows, viz:
1. That the notes Were merged in the judgment as long as
the judgment stood.
2. That the court of Rock county had power to vacate all
the juagments.
3. That when they were thus vacated, the original debt was
revived, and the receipt by the agent was not a bar to the
suit.

SUPREME COURT.
lark d a. v. Bowen el aL

Under this instruction, the jury found a verdict for the
p!aintifs.
The case was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Doolittle for the plaintiffs in error, and Mr. Lyfnde for the defendants.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error directed his attention
chiefly to the point that the notes were cancelled by the
arrangement which had been made between the parties, and
consequently could not be afterwards sued on. This position
was illustrated, in various ways, the principal one of which
was the following:.
Taking the note of one prtner for a liability of the firm is
a valid discharge of the firm, when the creditor agrees that
the original. liability shall be considered paid, and cancels or
delivers up, or agrees to deliver up or cancel, the evidences of
the firm liability.
This is the ordinary rule upon these facts, other than the
particular agreement. The intention of parties to this end is
presumed.
1 Smith's Leading Cases, Nf'ote to Camber v.Wane, 391
to 398.
If this is the law on the giving the note of ojie partner, a
fortiori rtist the giving a sealed warrant of attorney to con-'
fess, and the actual confession ofjudglhent, binding upon two
-'of three members of a firm, and taking also an assignment of
properLy to a trustee for the benefit of the condition, be a dis.
charge: SuMh is the case at bar.

.Mr. Lynde's fourth point was as follows:
The e~peption to the judge's charge may be embraced in a
single point. That-the court entering the judgment had vacated it, and therefore the promissory notes still in possession
of the plaintiffs uncancelled were still valid, and plaintiffs were
entitled to recover upon them.
Isit not a coninon occurrence in tll Qourts to vatcate judg-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

273

Clark e al. v. Bowen d al.

ments for cause, upon application from either party, and proceed to trial de novo upon the original cause of action?
Does not this court reverse judgments entered in the courts
below, and send cases back for new trial upon the original cause
of action ?
Whether the State court erred in vacating the judgment, this
court will not inquire; it is enough that the judgment was vacpted by the court in which it was entered.
A.receipt may be contradicted or explained.
Graves v. Key, 3 Barn. and Adol., 318.
Harden v. Gordon, 2 Mason, 561.
Chunn v. McCarson, 2 Dw. Eq. R., 73.
Fuller v. Crittenden, 9 Conn. R., 401.
1 Greenleaf's Evidence, see. 305.
1 Cowen afid Hill's Notes to Phil. Ev., 881.
2 Cowen and Hill's Notes to Phil. Ev., 581.
Ntr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
We deem it to be a matter not open to controversy in this
suit, that the State court of Rock county properly vacated its
own judgment, as respected Clark and Justin, after Smith,
the solvent partner, had been released from it-because Clark.
had no power to bind Smith by the confession; and secondly,
because the goods that were assigned to a trustee to secure
the judgment had been taken from the assignee, by a previous
mortgage of them.
The following admission is found in the bill of exceptions,
and is conclusive of the merits of this controversy:
"It is conceded by defendants, that the judgment in the
Circuit Court was confessed at the time of the execution of
the assignment, and that the assignment was to secure the
judgment, and the judgment and assignment were the mode
adopted to secure the plaintiffs' debt; and that Clark executed
the aissignment and judgment for. Smith."
The whole arrangement to secure the debt being in effect
aniulled, the orignal indebtedness stood revived, and was
properly enforced. by the judgment of ihe Circuit Courtwhich we order shall be affirmed.
18
VOL. XXII

