DECEMBER TEI M, 1859.

111

rauac Co. of ie Valley of Virginiav. Mordecai.

contrary to the admitted fact that they were not so drawn;
and for those- reasons the theory cannot be sustained.
In view of all the facts as disclosed in the pleadings, we
think the case clearly falls withf the operation of the rule.
generally applicable in cases of agency,
that where one of two
innocent parties must suffer, through the fraud or negligence
of a third party, the loss shall fall upon him who gave the
credit. Pitzherbert v. Mathen, 1 Term., 16, per Buller; Androscoggin Bank r. Kimball, 10 Cush., 373; Montague v.
Perkins, 22 Eng. L. and Eq., 516.
Business men who place their signatures to blanks, suitable
for negotiable bills of exchange or promissory notes, and intrust them to their correspondents, to raise money at their
discretion, ought to upderstand the operation and effect of
this rule, and not to expect that courts of justice will fail in.
such cases to give it due application.
According to the views of this court, the demurrers to the
several pleas filed to the first and second counts of the declaration should have been sustained. Having come to that conclusion, it is unnecessary to examine the other propositions
submitted on behalf of the defendants.
.The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed,.
with costs, and the cause remanded, with directions to enter
judgment for the plaintiff, as upon demurrer, on the first and
second counts of the declaration.

THE INBSUIANOB COMPANY OP THE VALLEY OF VIRGINIA, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. MOSES C. MORDEOAI.
Where there was insurance upon the freight of a vessel on a voyage from
Charleston to#Rio Janeiro, and from thence to a port of discharge in the
United States, the insurance was'upon the freight of each successive voyage,
and is to be applied to the freight at risk at any time, whether on the outward
or homeward voyage, to the nmount of the valuation.
.herefore, where the vessel performed the outward voyage, and was condemned
as unseaworthy, and the whole freight of the return voyage lst, the underwri
ters were not entitled to a deduction of the freight earned on thp outward

Voyage.

SUPREME COURT.
Insurance Co. of the VaUey of"Virgihia v. 2 ordewi
Whether the underwriters were discharged in consequence of the condemnation

of the vessel as unseaworthy, was a question not made on the trial or presented
to the court for decision, and thereibre cannot be cntertaited here; neither can
the question whether the policy was an open or valued one, as no exceptiou
was taken to the ruling of the court below that it was a valued policy.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of South Carolina.
The insurance company had an agency established in
Charleston, where their business appeared to be conducted
by W. M. & J. C. Martin. The policy was not filled up or
under the seal of the company, but the action was brought
upon a written memorandum upon the policy, as follows:
Messrs. Mordecai & Co. are insured in the sum of four
thousand dollars on the freight of the barque Susan, hence to
Rio Janeiro and back, to any port of diicbarge in the United
States.
$4,000 at 2 p. c., $80.
June 11, 1855.
The first above entry in the name of Mordecai & Co. should
have been to M. C. Mordecai, and the amount insured was
valued at the sum insured.
W. M. & T. C. MARTIN, Agents.
-May 30, 1856.
The declaration wbnt on to. state that the barque Susan,
while proceeding on her said voyage, and before her arrival at
her port of destination or final delivery, was by the perils and
damages of the sea, and by stormy and tempestuous weather,
and the violence of -the winds and waves, bulged, broken,
damaged, and spoiled; that the said barque had to put back
to Rio Janeiro; and was unable to proceed on her said voyage,
&c., &c.
The defendants pleaded the general issue, and upon ihe trial
the following bill of exceptions was taken, viz:
And on the trial of the issue aforesaid, the said M. C. Mordecai, by his counsel learned in the law, to maintain and prove
the issue on his part, gave in evidence and proved that he was
thb. owner.of the barque Susan, and that he made an offer to

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

113

Isurance Co. of the Valley of Firgida v. Mordeeai.

the agents of the defendants in Charleston for insurance of
four thousand dollars on the freight of said barque from
Charleston to Rio Janeiro, and from thence to a port of discharge in the United States, at a premium of two per centum,
and that the offer was accepted, and the premium paid, and
that the policy, according to the usage of the said company,
was in blank. But a memorandum was signed by the agent,
in.the terms following, viz: "Mordecai & Co. are insured on
freight of barque Susan, hence to Rio Janeiro, and from thence
to a port of discharge in the United States.
$80.
at 2 p. c.
$4,000,
Policy No. 209.
W. M. & J. C. MARTIN Ag's."
June 11, 1855.
That the vessel sailed from Charleston with a full cargo on
the 11th day of June, 1855, when she was tight and strong,
and arrived at the port of Rio Janeiro, where she discharged
her outward lading, and took inl a return cargo for the United
States of thirty-eight hundred bags of coffee, at a freight of
seventy-nine cents per bag, and on the 10th October, A. D.
1855, started on her return voyage, but by her want of strength
and soundness was compelled to put back to Rio Janeiro,
where she was condemned as unseaworthy and sold, and the
whole freight of the return voyage was lost.
Whereupon the counsel for the defendant insisted that the
policy was an open policy, and the insurers liable for only one
thousand dollars; but the court ruled and so instructed the
jury that the agreement proved was for a valued policy; and
then thd defendant insisted that the four thousand dollars having been insured on the round voyage, the insurers, from the
evidence, were liable for only one-half of the sum insured, the
other half being covered by the freight of the outward voyage,
and prayed the court so to instruct the jury; which instiuctiou
his honor, the presiding judge, refused to give, but charged
the jury that the loss of the freight on the return voyage was
a total loss, and that upon the case as above stated the plain,
tiff was entitled to recover the whole amount underwritten by.
the defendants; to which last-mentioned instruction the defendant excepted; and the jury thereupon gave their verdict
for the plaintiff as and for a total loss of the sum underwritten.
VOL. XX11.

8

SUPREME COURT.
Insra=c Co. of th~e Yafe of Virginia v. HZordccs.

to wit, for the sum of four thousand dollars and interest.
Whereupon, the counsel for the said company, because the
matter aforesaid doth not appear by the record of the verdict
aforesaid, did allege their exception to the opinion of the said
judge, and did requite that he should put his seal to this bill
of exceptions, and thereupon the said judge, at the request of
the counsel of the said Insurance Company of the Valley of
Virginia, did put his seal, at Columbia, this second day of
December, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifty-seven.

A.'G. MAGRATH, [SEAL.]

Whereupon, the jury found a verdict for the plantiffor four
thousand dollars, with interest and costs.
The case was argued by Mr. obinson for the plaintiffs in
error, and 1fr. Phillipsfor the defendant.
Mr. Bobinson contended that the plaintiff was not entitled
to recover anything, but that the clause in the policy attached,
which exempted the assurers from responsibility in case the
vessel should be declared unseaworthy, and that she was not
seaworthy when she sailed from Rio Janeiro. Upon this point
he cited a number of authorities.
If the plaintiff was entitled to anything, his judgment is for
too much, and his verdict is for too much.
The contract of insurance is one of indemnity.
Charleston Ins. and Trust Co. v. Corner, 2 Gill, 427, 428.
Franklin F. Ins. Co. v. Hamill, 6 ib., 95.
Here the bill of exceptions does not show a case of a valued
policy, as in Davy v. Hallett, 3 Caines's Rep., 19; and Patapsco
Ins. Co. v. Biscoe, 7 Gill and J., 294; but an open policy, as
in Maitland v. Ins. Co., 3 Richardson, 332.' Nio doubt the
policy was for the whole voyage round, as ii Columbian Ins.
Co. v. Catlett, 12 Wheat., 386, 887. But treating the policy as
open, the recovery could only be in respect of 3,800 bags of
coffee, at a freight of seventy-nine cents per bag, amounting at
niost to $3,002.09. And then it might be a question whether
from this there should not 'e a deduction in respect of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

1I.

Insuran= Co. of tiw Valley of Virginia v. Mordecai.

freight earned on the outward voyage from Charleston to Rio
Janeiro.
Robertson v. Maijoribanks, 2 Stark., 573, 8 Eng. C. L.,
480.
To avoid such deduction, the plaintiff has to insist that the
freight insured is to be regarded as not on "one entire voyage" from Charleston to Rio Janeiro, and thence to a port of
discharge in the United States, but upon "separate voyages"
out and back, as in Rugg, &c. v. Augusta Ins. and Banking
Co., 7 How., 610. This last position the appellants are not
disposed to controvert; for treating the voyage from Rio Ja.
neiro to a port of discharge in the United States as a "separate
voyage," then, according to the opinion of Bosworth, J., in
Van Valkenburgh.v. Astor Mut. Ins. Co., 1 Bosworth, 66, the
policy is, in effect, a distinct insurance for each separate voy-.
age, and there is an implied warranty of the seaworthiness of
the vessel, not only at the time of commencing the voyage
from Charleston to Rio Janeiro, but also at the time of commencing the voyage from Rio Janeiro to a-port of discharge
in the United States.
Mr. Phillips called the attention of the court to the bill of.
exceptions, which showed that the court ruled, and so instructed the jury, that the agreement proved was for a valued
policy, and that this ruling was not excepted to; nor was the
question of the unseaworthiness of the vessel raised in the
court below. The defendant having excepted only to the
"last-mentioned instruction," as the bill states, there is but
.one question for review in this court, and that is the correctness of the "last instruction."
The second instruction, which was excepted to,, raises only
the question whether, on the assumption that the policy was
a valued one, the amount insured was on the round voyage,
or whether it was applicable to the risk of each voyage.
The defendant contended, and so asked the judge to instruct
the jury, that the insurance was on the round voyage, and that
they were therefore entitled to a deduction for the freight
earned

9i

the outward voyage.

Thii .was negatived in the

116

SUPREME COURT.
Insurance Co. of the Valley of Vrg6da v. NAordecai.

charge, and,to this "last-mentioned instruction the defendant
excepted." This excludes with an emphasis aby intention to
except to the first instruction, which declared the policy to be
a valued one.
The only question, therefore, is, whether this was a correct
exposition of the law.
In the case of Hugg v. Augusta Insurance Company. 7
How., 610, the insurance was "on freight of the barque MargaretHugg, at and from Baltimore to Rio Janeiro, and back
to Havana or Matanzas, or a port in the United States, &c..
to the amount of $5,000," &c.
It was insisted by defendants that the -voyage insured was
one entire voyage, and that they were entitled to a deduction
of the freight earned on the outward cargo from Baltimore
to Rio.
But this court said: "We are of opinion that, upon a true
construction of the policy, the insurance was upon every successive cargo that was taken on board in the course of the
voyage out and home, and is to be applied to the freight at
risk at any time, whether on the outward or homeward passage."
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of South Carolina.
The suit was brought in the court below on a policy of
insurance, for $4,000, on the freight of the barque Susan; on
a voyage from Charleston to Rio Janeiro, and from thence to
*
a port of discharge in the United States.
The vessel sailed with a full cargo on the 11th June, 1855,
when she was stanch and strong, and arrived at the port of
Rio Janeiro, where she discharged her outward lading, and
took in a return cargo, and on the 10th October, 1855, started
on her returb voyage, but was compelled, for want of strength
and soundness, to put back to the port of departure,- where
she was condemned as unseaworthy, and sold, and the whole
freight of the return voyage lost.
The counse,, upon this state of facts, which is all that ap-

DECEMBER TERM, 1869
Inmuance Co. of fUi

,.117

a~eq of Virgirda v. Mordecai.

pears in the bill of. exceptions, insisted that the policy was an
open one, and the insurers liable for only one thousand dollars; but the court instructed the jury that the agreement
proved was for a valued policy.
The counsel then insisted, that the four thousand dollars
having-been insured on the round voyage, the insurers, from
the evidence, were liable only for one-half the sum insuredthe other half being covered by the freight of the outward
voyage; but the court charged, that the loss *of the freight on
the return voyage was a total loss, and that, upon the case as
it appeared, the plaintiff was entitled to the whole amount
underwritten. To this last instruction, the counsel for defendants excepted.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error, on the argument, referred to the clause in the policy by which "it is also agreed,
that if the above-named vessel, upon a regular survey, shall
be declared unseaworthy, by reason of her being unsound or
rotten, Dr incapable of prosecuting her voyage on account of
her being unsound or rotten, then the assurers shall not be
responsible on this policy;" and insisted that the condemnation of the vessel as unseaworthy, after returning back to the
port of Rio Janeiro, brotight the case within it.
But the answer to this position is, that no such question
was made on the trial, or presented to the court for decision,
and therefore cannot be entertained here; neither does the
evidence in the case enable the counsel to raise any such
question, as it does not appear-that the condemnation pro.
ceeded from the causes specified in this clause of the policy.
7 Wh., 610; 10 lb., 418. It is enough, however, to say, that
the question, for aught that appears in the bill of exceptions,
was not raised on the trial.
As it respects the question whether the policy wad an open
or valued one, no exception was taken to the ruling that it
was a valued one. The point was not pressed, probably; as
we see, from a memorandum of the agents of the company in
the case, that it was intended by the agreement to be a valued
policy.
The remaining question, and indoed the only one presented

SIUPREME COURT.
Brewster v. WakeZVW

in the bill of exceptions, is, whether the voyage insured io
one entire voyage from Charleston to Rio Janeiro, and back
to the port of discharge in the United States, and consequently
the underwriters entitled to a deduction of the freight earned
on the outward voyage?
The court is of opinion, upon the true construction of the
policy, the insurance was upon the freight of each successive
voyage, and is to be applied to the freight at risk at any time,
whether on the outward or homeward voyage, to the amount
of the valuation.
The case, in this respect, is not distinguishable from Hugg
v. the Augusta Insurance and Banking Company, (7 How.,
595.) See, also, 3 Caines, 16; 7 Gill. and John., 293; 2
Phillips on Insurance, 31, 34.

Judgment of the court below affirmed.

Wnizm

B~EwsTimi, APPELLANT,

v. WmhwmI WAm=ILD.

Whilst Minnesota was a Territory, tie following statute was passed:
See. 1. Any rate of interest agreed upon by the parties in contract, specifyinj
the same in writing, shall be legal and valid.
See. 2. When no rate of interest is agreed upon or specified in a note or othei
contract, seven per cent. per annum: shall be the lejal rate.
Where a party gave two promissory notes, in one of which he promised to pay.
twelve months after the date thereof, a sum of money, with interest thereon at
the rate of twenty per cent. per annum from the date thereof, and in another
promised to pay another sum, six months after date, with interest at the rate
of two per cent. per month, the mode of computing interest under the statute
was to calculate the interest stipulated for up to the time when the iotes became
due, and after that time at the rate of seven per cent. per annum.
Although the laws of the Territory abolished the distinction between cases at law
and cases in equity, and required all cases to be removed from an inferior to
a higher court by writ of error, and not by appeal, yetsuch laws cannot.regulate the process of this court; and the piesent case, b.eiug in the nature of a
bill in equity, is properly brought up by appeal.
The parties who acquired liens on the mortgaged property subsequent' to the
mortgage in question were not necessarily parties to this appeal; and if they
iad appeared to the suit in the court below, one defendant, whose interest is
ieparate from that of the other defendants, may appeal without them

