SUPREME COURT.
Unied State ex rdezwne Crawfordv. Addimm

said Juan Jose Gonzales is a good and valid claim to the land
known by the name of San Antonio; or Pescadero, to the
extent and within the boundaries mentioned in the grant and
map, the original of the former and copy of the latter being
on file in the records of this case. From this decree the
plaintiff appealed. The only question presented on the appeal
is, whether the grant is to be located according to the natura
calls in the grant, or whether the clainiant is to be confined
to the quantity specified in the 4th condition of the grant.
But the decision of this question is reserved in the decree
of the District Court, and will properly arise after the location.
The failure to direct the precise manner of the location is not
erroneous. The result therefore is, that the decree must be
affirmed.

Tim UmET

STATES EX RELATIONE RICHARD- R C
HENRY ADDIS01T

V.
0RAvmORD

Where the matter in controversy was the right to the mayoralty in Georgetown,
tha salary of which office was $1,000 per annum, payable monthly, and the
dviation of which office was two years, this court has jurisdiction of a case
c'ming up by writ of error from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia.
The fact that the salary is payable monthly makes no difference; the appyopriation, when made, being made for the whole sum.
A judgment of ouster being -rendered in the Circuit Court, and the defendant
having filed the uecessary bond, and sued out a writ of error to this court, this
amounts to a supersedeas upon the judgment.
The case is not a proper one for a mandamus from this court to the judges below, or for a rule upon them to show cause why they should not carry out the
judgment of ouster.
The fact that the term of office will be about to expire when the writ of error is
retunable, viz: December term, 1860, is not a sufficient reason for the inter.
position of this court at the present stage-of the proceedings.

THIs was an application for a peremptory mandamus or for.
a rule to show cause why the judges of the Circuit Court of
the District of Columbia should not execute a judgment in
that court, by which Ifenry Addison had been directed to he

.

DECEMBER TERM, 185Y.

175

Unied States ex rdatione Crawford v. Addison.

ousted of the mayoralty of Georgetown. AddiSon had-sued
out a writ of error, returnable to December term, 1860, and
filed the usual bond, which the Circuit Court decided to
amount to a supersedeas, and accordingly suspended the judgment of ouster. Mr. Brent and Mr. Carlisle, counsel for
Crawford, filed his petition, accompanied by a transcript- of
the record, and moved for a peremptory mandamus or a rule
.toshow cause. The motion was opposed by Mr. Bradley and
Mr. Henry Winter Davis. The reporter has only notes of the
.-arguments of Hr. Carlisle and Mr.Bradley.
It was agreed bythe counsel, that the office of mayor, referred to in the proceedings in this case, is elected for two
years, and that the salary is $1,000 per annum, payable
monthly. The record so stated.
Mr. Carlisle contended that the writ of error had been improvidently issued in this case, and consequently there was no
supersedeas. The act of 1816 (3 Stat. atL., 261) provides tbt no
caude shall hereafter be removed from"the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Colu-mbia to the Supreme
Court of the United States by appeal or writ of error, unless
the matter in dispute in such cause shall be of the value of
$1,000 or upwards, exclusive of costs. He then made the
following points:
1. Whether, assuming that the Government is entitled fo
execution of the judgment of ouster, and the relator to his
execution for coits,.the proper remedy is by mandamus -from
this court. That it is the prope and only adequate remedy
where execution is improperly denied by the court below, and
in other like cases, has been repeatedly held by this*court
United States v. Peters, 5 Crauch, 115.
Livingston v. Dorgenois, 7 Cranch, 577.
Lif6 and Fire Insurance Co. v. Wilson, 8 Peters, 03.
Postmaster General v.Trigg, 11 Peters, 173.
Stafford v. Union Bank of Louisiana, 16"Howard, 135.
Stafford v. Union Bank of Louisiana, 17 Howard, 276.
2. That it is mere matter of discretion, whether the rule
to show cause or, to prevent delays, the alternative maidamus
isto be granted. It must depend upon the nature of the case.

SUPREIE COURT.
UMiWe d

eextcds
rdione Crawford v. Addigon.

Life and Fire Insurance Co. v. Adams, 9 Peters, 571.
In the present case, the record shows in advance the sole
cause against the mandamus. The question is concerning
the title to an cffice of public trust, the term of which will
be about immediately expiring at the commencement of the
next term of this court. Nearly one-half the termi has been
consumed in the proceedings below; and as the record here
.shows, it is established by verdict and judgment, that during
all the time which has elapsed, the office has been occupied
without any lawful warrant, to the defeat of the popular will,
in violation of the charter of the city, and to the prejudice of
the relator's right. It seems not easy to imagine a case where
the discretion of the court can be more appropriately exercised in dispensing with the rule, and proceeding at once to
consider the cause shown.
It remains now to inquire whether the cause shown by the
record is sufficient for the denial of the motion.
That cause is, that the judgment of ouster and for costs is
superseded by reason of the matters in that behalf spread
upon the record.
•And the sole question now is, is the judgment effectually
superseded under the statutes of the United States?
The means of determining the question are before the court,
in the. transcript tiled with the petition.
It cannot be denied, that this court will entertain such a
question, abd determine the legality of the supposed supersedeas, where it is alleged as cause against the mandamus.
The cases already cited abundantly show this. In the case in
16 Howard, this court itself suggested the remedy by mandamus, where a supersedeas had been improvidently allowed
by the court below. And in the case in 5 Or. (U. S. v: Judge
Peters) the cause of refusing execution being shown to be an
act of the L'egislature of Pennsylvania, this court, upon the
motion for mandamus, considered the constitutionality of that
act, pronounced it unconstitutional, and'awarded a peremptory mandamus.
So that it would seem, when the question of supersedeas
or no supersedeas arises, and is necessary to be determined

DECEMBER TER-M, 1859.

177

United S&ae ex relathou CuW~ford v. Addiwo.

upon a mandamus for execution, this court will determine
every question, of whatever nature, necessarily involved in
the principal inquiry.
In other instances, the question of the validity of the supeisedeas has arisen here in cases where there was an admitted
jurisdiction of the cases on writ of error or appeal-the question being wlether, notwithstanding such adnittedjurisdictiof,
the judgment or decree below ought not to be executed, by
reason of a failure to comply with the terms of the statute
.regulating the supersedeas.
Here we maintain that there could be no possible superdeas, because the case is not one in which a writ of error lies.
If that writ of error were here, a simpler and more obvious
course would be, to move to dismiss it. But the judgment
below was rendered since the commencement of the present
term of this court, and the writ is returnable to the next term,
when the office will have nearly expired.
If it be clear that no writ of error lies, it would seem to be
a singular defect in the law, if the successful party below
can be practically and absolutely defeated of his right by
the suing out of such writ. With a court below, scrupulous of
deciding, in the first instance, the question of the jurisdiction.
of this court, it would be easy to imagine examples and to put
c4ses where the cause of justice oould be entirely perverted.
I propose, then, to show that there is no supersedeas, because no writ of error lies in such a case.
It professea to be sued out under the'act of April 2, 1816,
(3Stat., 261.)
The section has been already recited.
Its language does not differ substantially from that of the
22d section of the act of 1789.
"Sofar as it differs at all, it is more stringent and
explicit.
The original act was- that of- 27th February, 1801, (2 Stat.,
106,) which uses affirmative language, allowing appeals, &c.
This is negative, "that no cause shall, &c., unless, &c."
What is the "matter in dispute" in this cause? And what
is "its value?"
It is it public office of personal trust and confidence.
vOL. xxiI.

12

SUPREME COURT.
Unikd SWW-ex rzione Crawford v. AdRmsnIIt is not property in any sense of the term. It can neithev
be bought, nor sold, nor mortgaged, nor assigned. It cannot
be aliened absolutely, or in any qualified form. It has none
of the attributes which are inseparable from property. The
proceeding below did not in any degree depend upon any
profits to be earned in the office, or in-any manner to arise out
of it. The information would lie in the name of the United
States, if the office were purely honorary, (as it is in effect,
the salary being small,) it being an office of public trust
touching the rule apd government of a city. It would lie as
well on the relation of any private citizen and voter- in the
towni, as on the. relation of the true incumbent dejure.
Again: The record shows, by stipulation, that in fact there
is an annual salary annexed to the office, pfyable month by
month, as earned. This salary, if. earned, for a whole year,
would be one thousand dollars. Is a year's dalary, or the
salary for the whole term of two years, the matter in dispute
here, or is the matter in dispute of that value? Clearly not.
The judgment of ouster neither gives nor takes away the
salary for the whole term, or for any part of it. When the
information was filed, two months' salary had accrued; when
the judgment was rendered, nine months' salary had accrued.
During all this time, the defendant, as mayor defacto, received
his salary, and the judgment could not deprive him of it, "For
the unexpired term, who will say, that if he be not ousted, he
will live and earn the salary for any single month or day of it?
And unless he live, and earn it, it matters not to him whether
the judgment be reversed or n6l.
There is no value in. dispute; for the services to be rendered
by the defendant are to be taken as a full equivalent for the
salary to be paid.
There is a wide difference between this case and that of a
life estate in lands, or chattels, which, though it depend on
life, is yet the subject of sale-is property-and its value in
market may be ascertained.
With theso principles in view, the following cases are refer
red to:
Ritchie r. Mauro, 2 Pet., 243.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

179

United Sated ex rdatione Crawford v. Addison.

Barry v. Mercein, 5 How., 103. (Op. Taney, 0. J., 118.)
Scott v. Lunt, 6 Pet., 349, case of the rent charge of $73
per annum.
See the Argument of Swann, and the Op. of Marshall, C. J.
Grant v. McKee, 1 Pet., 248, where it was argued, that
in substance and effect, a very large property was involved.
To the same effect is Ross v. Prentiss, 8 How., 772, and
numerous other cases which might be cited.
. Against these cases I am not aware of any which may be
relied on by the other side, except the Col. Ins. Co. v. Wheel-.
ing, 7 Wheat., 534; and Lee v. Lee, 8 Peters, 44.
So far as these cases may be thought inconsistent with those
cited by us, they are overruled by the latter.
The case in 7 Wheat. (decided in 1822) has been steadily
adhered to by the court upon the principal point determined
by it, and the only one which appears to have been argued,
viz: that a judgment for mandamus is a inal judgment. It
was cited and reaffirmed for the purpose in the case of United
States v. Kendall, and in the case of Holmes.v. Jennison.
Having decided this point, the .court directed the counsel for
the plaintiff in error to produce affidavits of the value of the.
salary attached to the offices of directors of the company*. Butupon the production of them, the writ was quashed for want
of jurisdiction.
In tbe case of Mauro v. Ritehie, 2 Peters, (1829,) the very
question of value was the whole question. The court there,
instead of directing affidavits, lay down the principle that an
office which is of no value except so far as it affords compensationi for labor and services, thereafter to be earned, is not
the subject of a writ of error frpm the Circuit Court of this'
District.

. And as to the case of Lee v. Lee, it is au exceptional case,
which does not seem to be reconcilable with the uniform current of decisions in this court. It was decidea in 1834, and
there is only one member of the court (Mr. Justice McLean)
who was then on the bench, and he appears to have concurred
in its decision of Barry v. Mercein.

SUPREME COURT.
United State8 ex r atione Crawford v. Addkon.

It is curious to contrast the conclusion announced in the
case of Lee v. Lee with that of the latter case.. In the former.
the court took jurisdiction because liberty was "not susceptible of pecuniary estimation;" in the latter they disclaimed it.
because the paternal rights, duties, and affections, were in like
manner "utterly incapable of being reduced to any pecuniary
standard of value, as it rises superior to money considerations."
Mr: Bradey made the following points:
1. The office of mayor of Georgetown is elective for two
years; the salary is fixed by law at $1,000 a year, payable
monthly.
2. By the act of 1816, 3 Stat., 261, sec. 1, this court has
jurisdiction in cases where the pecuniary value of the thing
in controversy is $1,000.
The value of an office is fixed. by the salary annexed to it.
Wheelright v Columbian Ins. Co., 7 Wheat., 534.
3. The writ of mandamus is a high prerogative writ, and
never to be used except where there is no other adequate legal
remedy, and never where it would be nugatory.
Tappan on Mandamus, p. 15, and cases in notes.
The record and the return to the certiorarishow that the
jury first rendered a verdict, in substance, that neither of the
candidates had the greatest number of legal votes, but it was
a tie vote.
By the abended act of incorporation, 4 Stat., it is provided,
in such case, that the councils of Georgetown shall in joint
meeting elect a'mayor from those having an equal number.
Therefore it is material that this court shall see upon what
facts the jury passed, when they responded to the fourth issue,
that Addison had not a majority of the legal votes.
And for this purpose it is competent to look behind the
judgment and verdict.
1 Green. Evi., see. 532, and notes.
The councils of Georgetown, as has been conceded in the
argument, in point of fact, having been furnished with a copy
of the verdict so returned by the jury in writing, proceeded to
3lect Mr. Addison in joint meeting, &c.

DEFMBER TERM, 1859.

181

Uniktd Stato. xrelation Crawford v. Addiin.

The mandamus, therefore, prayed for by this motion, would
be nugatoryBecause it is clear, as between the real parties to this controversy, it has been ascertained by a -competent authority
that there was an equality of votes; and
Because the election subsequent to that finding is pursuant
to the charter; and, Addison being rightfully in under this
election, the writ of ouster could not remove him from the
said office.
Mr. Justice McLEAI delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia.
Richard R. Crawford, of the city of Georgetown, in the District of Columbia, states, that on the fourth Monday of Febrhary, 1857) in' pursuance of an act of Congress to amend the
charter of Georgetown, -approved the 31st May, 1830, and an
act to amend the same charter, approved the 11th August,
1856, by ballot to elect some fit and proper person, having the
qualifications required by law, to be muyor of the corporation
of Georgetown, to continue in office two years, and until a successor shall be duly elected, said Crawford, being duly qualified, received the greatest" number of legal votes, and was
elected mayor of the said corporation, and took the oath as
mayor, and continued to discharge the duties for two years.
On the fourth Monday of February,'1859, another election
was held for mayor, at which he received the greatest number
of legal votes, and was by the judges declared to be duly
elected; on which he presented himself in the presence of the
two boards of -the comiou council of the said corporation,
and claimed that the oath should be administered; but the
said two boards, alleging that there was a mistake in the returns, and that there was in fact'a majority of one vote in
fivor of Henry Addison, who was the opposing candidate, and
to whom the oath of office was administered, and who took
possession of the office,, and continues to exercise the duties
f)f
the same.
And your petitioner represents, that at the ensuing term of

S UPRIEME COURT.
United States ex relatione Crawford v. Addiron.

the Circuit Court of the District of Co.umbia, being the court
then and still having jurisdiction in the premises, an information, in nature of quo warranto, upon the relation of your petitioner, was filed in the said court by Robert Ould, Esq., the
attorney of the United States for the District of Columbia, on
which due process was issued against the said Henry Addison,
requiring him to answer before the said court by what warrant
he claimed to exercise the said office of mayor of the corporation of Georgetown.
* And the said Addison baving pleaded to the said information, and certain replications having been made to said plea
.by the said attorney of the United States, certain issues were
joined thereon at the October term, 1859, of the said court,
and ainongst others the issue to try whether the said Henry
Addison had, as alleged by him~in his plea, received the
greatest number of legal votes for mayor at the said last-mentioned election; and upon the issue it was found by the jury,
duly empannelled and sworn to try the sam6, that the said
Henry Addison did not receive the greatest number of legal
votes for mayor at the said election; and thereupon the said
ourt rendered judgment of oustei against the said defendant,
.and for the costs of your petitioner, as relator in the said proceeding, to wit, on the -=- day of December instant.
Whereupon due process for the execution of the said judgment, to remove the said defendant and for the recovery of
the costs aforesaid, was duly prayed of the said court; but the
said Henry Addison, pretending that the proceedings upon
the said information in matter of law may be reviewed by this
honorable court upon writ of error, sued out such writ of
error, filed a bond, and caused a citation to be issued and
served upon your petitioner, to appear and answer to the said
writ of error on the return thereof, to wit, at the December
term, 1860. "And thereupon the said Circuit Court, for the
express and sole reason that such writ of error and bond
operated as a supersedeas, (which is expressed in their order
in that behalf,) refused to execute the said judgment, or to
issue any process to remove the said defendant or for the
-recovery of.the costs aforesaid.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
nW2e &ate ex relatin Crawfcrdv. Addison.

Yoar petitioner is advised, and humbly submits, that this
honoable court bath no jurisdiction of the matter of the said
writ of error, and that the same must be dismissed on the
return thereof. But, as hereinbefore stated, the said writ is
not returnable until December term, 1860, and the term of
office for which your petitioner was elected as aforesaid will
then be about to expire.
Your petitioner is advised that his only adequate and proper
remedy is by a mandamus from this honorable court, directed
to -the judges of the said. Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, commanding them to issue process for the execution
of the judgment aforesaid. And for that the transcript of
record herewith filed plainly expresses on its face the sole
cause for the refdsal of such process, so as distinctly to present the whole matter of law for the consideration of the court,
be prays that a peremptory mandamus may issue, or, in the
alternative, that such interlocutory order may be passed to
that end, as this court may.direct.
Under the thirteenth section of the judiciary act of 1789, the
Supreme Court has "power to issue writs of mandamus, in
cases warranted by the principles and usages of law, to any
courts appointed or persons holding office under the United
States." The power of -the Circuit Courts to issue the writ
of iiandamus is confined exclusively to those cases in which
it may be necessary to the exercise of their jurisdiction.
Kendall v. United States, Curtis, 12th vol., 851.
On a mandamus, a superior court will never direct in what
manner the discretion of an inferior tribunal shall be exercised; but they will, in a proper case, require the inferior
court to decide. Life Insurance Company v. Wilson's Heirs,
8 Peters, 294. It has repeatedly been declared by this court
that it will not by mandamus direct a judge as to the exercise
of his discretion; but it will require him to act. 13 Pet., 279.
A mandamus is a remedy where-there is no other appropriate relief, and it is only resorted to on extraordinary occasions.
The writ of error is a common Taw writ, and is almost as
old as the common law itself. This writ, to operate as a

SUPREME COURT.
United States ex 2datione Crawford v. Addkom

supersedeas, must be issued within ten days after the rendition -of the judgment, and on secuity being given for a sum
exceeding the amount of the judgment. Where no supersedens is required, security for the costs of the Supreme Court
must be entered. So that, in these respects, the writ of error
is said to be a writ of right, though regulated by statute.
The condition on the supersedeas bond is: "that the said
Henry Addison .shall prosecute the said writ of error to effect,
and answer all damages and costs if lie shall fail to make his
plca good; then the above obligation to be vnid: otherwise
to be and remain in full force and virtue."
In the Columbus Insurance Company v. Wheelrighr and
others, 7 Wheat., 584, it was held that a writ of error will lie
from this court upon the judgments of the Circuit Courts
awarding a peikemptory mandamus, if the matter in controversy is of sufficient value. But in that case, it did appear
that the office of director of the insurance company, which
was the matter in controversy, -was of less value than one
thousand dollars, and thst its value was to be dscertained by
the salary paid; the court held it had no jurisdiction.
The weight of this authority is not lessened by the fact on
which the question of jurisdiction turned. The salary of the
mayor of Georgetown was established by law at one thousand
dollars per annum; and if this be the matter of controversy
it settles the jurisdiction.
But it is contended that a year's salary cannot be regarded
as the amount in controversy, as the salary is paid monthly
or quarterly, as. may be most convenient to the mayor. The
law regulates the pay of all salaried officers by the year,
and the estimates are so appropriated in the reported bills.
Any departure from this annual allowance would derange,
more or less, the fiscal action of a Government or corporation.
But it is said that the remedy by writ of error is inappropriate and ineffectual, as the office of the relator will expire
about the time the writ of error is made "returnable. This
may be a defect in the law, which the legislative power only
can remove. A: writ of error returnable instanter woald give

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

185

Mazwell et al. v. Moore et al.

more speedy relief, and might be more satisfactory, but we
must administer the law as we find it.
The bond and security given on the writ of error cannot be
regarded as an idle ceremony. It was designed as an indemnity to the defendant in error, should the plaintiff fail to prosecute with effect his writ of error.
We can entertain no doubt that the writ of error is the
legal mode of revising the judgment of the Circuit Court in
this case; and that security having been given on the judgment, as the law requires, it is superseded.
Mr. Justice WAYNE and Mr. Justice GRIER dissented.

DAvID MAXWELL, AND THOMAS WATKINS AND MARY WATKINS
HIS WIFE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. ISRAEL M. MOORE,
MADISON M.

JoHN

MORRIS, HENRY MORRIS,

JAMES P.

KELLEN,

F. BLACK, JAMES F. BATTE, AND WILLIAM M. CRAIG.

An act of Congress, passed in 1812, (2 Stat. at L, 729,) gave a bounty of 160
acres of land to every regular soldier of the army, and made void all sales or
agreements by the grantee before the patent issued.
Another ct, passed in 1826, (4 Stat. at L., 190,) permitted the soldier, under

certain circumstaoces, to surrender his patent, and select other land. This
act did not contain the avoiding clause contained in the first act.
These acts have no necessary connection in this particular, and an agreement to
convey, made after the first patent was surrendered, and before the second was
issued, held to be" valid and binding.

THIs case -was brought up ktom the Supreme Court of the
State of" Arkansas by a writ of error issued under the 25th

section"of the judiciary act.
Maxwell and Watkins brought an ejectment against Moore
and others, to recover the northeast quarter of iection ten, in
township seven north, range seven west, containing 160 acres of
land, in the county of White, and State of Arkansas. The plaintiffs claimed dhder the heirs of one McVey, upon the ground
that, under the two acts of Congress of 1812 and 1826, McVey
..ould not alienate his land, or covenant to convey it away

