DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Boedg d aZ. v. Wiatw.

ported by the evidence, without any bill of exceptions t.i the
admission of testimony or to the charge of the court.
The judgment of the court below is therefore affirmed.

J. W, HODGE, JOHN W. HNTEN, HAYWOOD HmER, TH oAs
"Co u, ANDYoUNG CoL~xiN, PL.AiNTs nT ERRo, v.
JOHN A. WILLAms.
A writ of error cannot be amended in this court.
Therefore, where the party who was really the plaintiff in error, and sought to
reverse the judgment, was made tha defendant aiid the party in whose favor

the judgment in the court below was rendered was made plaintiff in error in
the writ, it cannot bl amended in this court, but must be dismissed.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error.from the District
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Texas.

Hr. Hughes, of counsel for John A. Williams, suggested
that the judgment of the said District Court was in fact against
his client; and that, after said judgment, the said Williams
filed his assignment of errors, and applied for a writ of error;
and that by a clerical mistake the said Williams was made
defendant in error, and J. W. Hodge, John W. Hunter, Haywood Hunter, Thomas Coleman, and Young Coleman, plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Hughes then moved the court to amend the said writ
of error, or that the said writ of error, by reason of said clerical mistake, be dismissed for want ofjurisdicion.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears, from the record in this case, that an action was
brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for the eastern district of Texas, by John A. Williams, against Hodge
and the other- defendants named in the proceedings, and at
the trial, the judgment was against the plaintiff.
The *rit of error removing the case to this courL is in the
name of the defendants who succeeded in the court below.

88

SU'-PREME COURT.
Hodge el al. v. Williams.

and do not desire to disturb the judgment; and the plaintiff
in that court, who alleges error in the judgment, and seeks to
reverse it, is made the defendant in the writ of error.
It is evident that the writ was intended to be sued out by
the plaintiff in the court below, and that the names of the
defendants, as plaintiffs in the writ, were used without their
authority; for the errors are assigned by the plaintiff, and the
bond states that a writ of error has been sued out by him, and
the citation issued by the judge is directed to the defendants,
and served oil their counsel. And it is obvious that the writ
in the name of the defendants was an oversight of the clerk
by whom it was issued.
But the amendment proposed cannot be made here. A)n
amendment presupposes jurisdiction of the case. And this
court have no appellate power over the judgment of the court
below, unless the judgment is brought here according to the
act of Congress-that is, by writ of error; and that writ, from
its nature and character, must be sued out by the party who
alleges error in the judgment of the inferior court. This writ
is not mere matter of form, but matter of substance, prescribed
by law, and essential to the jurisdiction of this court. And if
it were amended here, by making the plaintiffs in error defendants, and the defendant in error the plaintiff, it would be
a new writ made here, and not the one issued by the officer
appointed by law.
Upon this principle, the court have uniformly refused to
amend writs of error; and this must now be regarded as the
settled practice of the court. It has repeatedly refused to
amend, where the partnership name of a firm was used instead
of the proper names of the parties; and in like manner it has
refused to amend where the name of one or more of the parties were given, and the rest designated as others joined with
them, without setting out the names of those intended to be
included as others.
But the precise point now before us was decided in the case
of Hines v. Papin, at December term, 1857. The same error
was committed in that case which had been committed in this;
und the error was equally apparent, as in the present instance,

DECEM1BER TERM, 1859.

89

United Statei v. Gailbraith et aZ.

from the recital in the bond and the citation and service. The
case was, indeed, even stronger for the amendment than this,
for counsel appeared in this court for each of the parties, and
offered to amend by consent. Yet the court refused to amend,
upor. the ground that consent of parties -buld not give jurisdiction, where it was not given by law and legal process. But
here there is no appearance for the parties who are named as
plaintiffs in the writ of error; and if we order the amendment,
we should make them defendants in a suit in which they are
not bound to appear in that character. It is the duty of the
party who desires to bring a case before this court, to see that
proper and legal process is sued out for that purpose; and if
he fails to do so, he has no right to treat the defect as a mere
clerical error, for which he is not to be held responsible.
The opinion in the case of Hines v. Papin, above referred
to, was delivered orally, and not reduced to writing, and consequently, does not appear in the printed reports. The court
have therefore deemed it advisable to state now the practice
and doctrine of the court in this respect, in order that suitors
may be aware of the necessity of paying proper attention to
the process they issue, and not subject themselves to costs and
delay by errors which a clerk, in the hurry and pressure of
otherbusiness, will unavoidably sometimes commit.
The writ of error must therefore, upon the motion before
the court, be dismissed, as it cannot be amended.

STATES, APPELLANTS, V. JAms D. GALBBAITH, JOHN
SINE, DAViD T. BAYLEY, AND RIcHARD H. STANTON.

T z UNwI

Where the clear weight of the proof is against the possession or occupation by
the grantee of land in California, the date of the grant was altered without
any explanation of the alteration, and the genuineness of the signature of the
Governor to a certificate of approval of the Departmental Assembly doubted,
this court will reverse the decree of the court below confirming the claim, and
remit it for further evidence and examination.

This was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.

