DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

478

Adam v. Prertmn

Eastern State, 2 Cur. C. C., 142. Much testimony was introduced on the one side and the other upon this point, and it is
somewhat conflicting. All that can be done under the circumstances with any possible advantage to either party will
be to state our conclusions upon the evidence. After a careful examination of the depositions, we think it is clearly proved
that both vessels as they approached each other were near midchannel, Most of the witnesses on board the steamer expressly
affirm that she was near mid-channel whenthe lights of the propeller were first discovered, and they all agree that her helm
was not changed, except for the purpose of bringing the lights
of the propeller one point on her larboard bow, until the propeller starboarded her helm, and attempted to cross the bows
of the steamer. That movement of the propeller was a direct
violation of the rules of navigation, and was entirely without
any excuse. Her master may have been deceived as to the
course of the steamer, by the slight bend in the river; but if
so, it is the misfortune of those who employed him that he
was not better acquainted with the navigation, or more attentive to his duty.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed with
costs.
MAY FoRT ADAms, .&DMnIsTRATRIX OP JOHN HAGAN, JUN.,
JoHN S. PRESTON AND CAROLNE M.
DEORASED, APPELLANT, 0).
PRESTON HIS WIPE.

This court has never reviewed the judgment of an inferior court of a State, where
there was an appeal to the Supreme Court of the State, upon a subject within
the jurisdiction of such court, ul On ithe allegation that its proceedings were
irregular or illegal, and contrary to the law of the State.
The present is such a case.
The Parish Court of New Orleans had exclusive jurisdiction over property ceded
by insolvents, and the courts of the United States have no jurisdiction over
such insolvencies.
An allegation of fraud in a bill fflhd to review such proceedings in insolvency.
which was afterwards abandoned, is not sufficient to give to the Circuit Court
jurisdiction to review the proceedings of the State court.
Moreover, the complainant has no equitable claim to relief, his assignors having
no mortgage lien on the property, when the judgments were assigned to the
.iomplainant.

474

SUPREME COUIT.
Adams v. Preston.

Tuis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The facts in the case were complicated, and not to be understood by a brief narrative. The reader is therefore referred
to the opinion of the court, in which they are historically relate'.
It was argued by Mr. Taylor for the appellant, who also
adopted a brief filed by Mr. Sele, and by Mr. Benjamba for
the appellees.
.Mr. Taylor made the following points:
I. A mortgage in the State of Louisiana, when duly inscribed
in the register of mortgages, in the parish where the debtor
has his domicil, will affect or bind the slaves of the debtor, no
matter in what part of the State such slaves may be employed.
C. C., 453, 454, 458, 461, 3246, 3247, 3248, 3250, 3216,
3238.
C. M. Hyams v. McH. Smith, 6 An., 862.
Patin v. Creditors, 9 L. R., 71.

Hooper v. the Union Bank of La. et al., 10 R. R., 63; 11
R. R., 20.
Cumming v. Bionalt, Curator, et al., 2 An, 794.
Crouch v. Lockett, 3 An., 121.
Bibb et al. v. Union Bank, 8 An., 824.
Spencer v. Amis, 12 An., 127.
Voorhies v. De Blanc, 12 An., 864.
H. No mortgage of any kind existed in favor of the heIrs of
Tlampton upon theslaves, which are the object of the present
action, on the 2d day of February, 1841, when they filed their
intervention in the suit then depending in the Parish Court
of New Orleans, wherein the syndics of the creditors of
Thomas Barrett were plaintiffs, and Robert Bell was dofendant, or at any time thereafter, nor did any privilege exist on
them in favor of the heirs of Hampton; and these slaves were
then affected by and subject to the judicial mortgages resulting from the judgments duly recorded against Thomas Barrett
in the parish of New Orleans, where he had his domicil.

DECEMBER TERM, 1869.

475

Ads. v. Jwo
C. C., 8383.
Transcript, 104 to 108.
C. C., 2216, 3246, 8247, 3248, 8250, 8288, 8289,8817, 8818,
3290.
IlI. The proceedings had in the case of the Syndics of the
Creditors of Thomas Barrett against Robert Bell, in the Parish Court of New Orleans, upon the intervention of the heirs
of Hampton, filed therein, were and are, so far as to the mortgage rights of the Union Bank on the property of the insolvent Barrett, res inter alios acta, and can have, in law or equity,
no effect in sheltering the slaves in question from pursuit,
when the object is to subject them to the operation of the judicial mortgages which existed in favor of that bank, at the
time of making such intervention. Neither was there anything in the proceedings'in the case of Thomas Barrett v. his
Creditors which could have had any such effect.
Bullard and Curry's Dig., 479, and seq., sees. 44,10, U, 12,
44, 45, 46, 15, 16, 31, 35.
Brown v. Kenner, 3 M. R., 278.
Saul v. Creditors, 7 N. S., 425.
Rivers v. Hemstack, 2 R. R., 187.
Egerton v. Creditors, 2 R. R.,. 201.
Corion v. Millaudon, 3 An., 664.
Gravin v. Lafon, 7 N. S., 613.
Pandelly v. Creditors, 9 L. R., 887.
Morgan v. Syndics, 4 L. R., .174.
Morgan, Dorsey, & Co. v. their Creditofs, 19 L. IL 84.
Sue. of A. Petayvin, 10 R. R., 118; 1 An., 92.
C. C., ,169, 1170.
Robert v. Creditors, 2 An., 585.
Lee v. Creditors, 2 An., 994.
West v. Creditors, 3 An., 532.
Williams v. Nicholson, 5 An., 720.
Mr. Berjamin made the following points:
L The bill must be dismissed, for want of proper partie.
This objection was taken in the court below, and is insiur.
mountable

SUPREME COURT.
.A&Mrn v. .Pwetos
The bill prays to annul a judgment rendered in a suit between the syndics of Thomas Barrett and Robert Bell, and the
heirs o' Wade Hampton intervening; yet neither of the orig.
inal parties to that suit is before the court, and only one out
of the three intervening parties.
It seeks to set aside a sale made by Barrett's syndic and
Robert Bell to the three heirs of Wade 'Hampton; yet none
of the vendors are before the court, and only one of three purchasers is made party.
The bill attempts to excuse the want of parties that it admits
to be necessary, by averring them to be beyond the jurisdiction
of the court.
This excuse cannot avail.
Shields v. Barron, 17 Howard, 180.
Corion v. Millaudon, 19 Howard, 113.
IL The Parish Court of New Orleans was vested by law
with full power over all the property ceded by the insolvent, and over the respective claims of the creditors. This
jurisdiction has been exercised, and the regularity of the proceedings andlegality of the action of that courtcannot be reviewed in this court, which has no jurisdiction over the settlement of insolvencies in the State courts.
Any error or illegality in the proceedings of the Parish
Court should have been corrected by appeal to the Supreme
Court of Louisiana.
Tarver v. Tarver, 9 Peters, 174.
Gaines v. Chew et al., 2 How., 619, 644.
Fonvergne et al. v. City of New Orleans, 18 How.,, 471.
That the law of Louisiana vested in the Parish Court full
and exclusive jurisdiction over the property surrendered, and
the distribution of its proceeds amongst the creditors, is too
clear to admit of dispute.
Insolvent Law of Louisiana, 1817.
Insolvent Law of Louisiana, 13th March, 1887.
Act of Louisiana Legislature, 1826.
All the property previously owned by the insolvent becomes- vested in the creditors, represented by the syndic au
their trustee.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

477

Adam Y. Preasm

Schroeder v. Nieholson, 2 L. R., 854.
Morgan v. Creditors, 7 L. R, 62.
Dwight v. Simon, 4 An., 492.
And all creditors who are parties to the insolvent proceedings are absolutely prohibited from seeking remedies in any
other court, even of the State of Louisiana, than that in which
the insolvency is pending.
Jacobs v. Bogart, 7 Rob. Rep., 162.
Marsh v. Marsh, 9 Rob. Rep., 46.
Tyler et al. v. Cred's, 9 RoD. Rep., 878.
And not only is this so, but previously-existing suits in
other courts are all required by law to be -transferred to the
court having jurisdiction of the insolvency, and to be there
cumulated with the insolvent proceedings.
Code of Practige, art. 165, sec. 3.
III. If, however, it be pretended that the Circuit Court had
jurisdiction of the complainant's demand, on the ground of
the frauds charged in the bill, the answer is, that those frauds
are denied in the answer, and not one scintilla of proof has
been offered in support of them.
The allegation that it was'a fraud to claim a mortgage, because, in complainant's opinion, the effect of the mortgage had
expired by lapse of time, without renewal of registry, is not
worthy of serious refutation.
No attempt was made to prove any of the fraudulent combinations charged in the bill, and indignantly denied by the answer.
Ihdeed, the charge of fraud appears to be entirely abandoned, as not a word is said to support it in the elaborate brief
filed by the counsel for appellant in this court.
IV. Should it be decided by the court that the foregoing
points are not sustainable, and that the merits of the controversy between the parties are open for examination, then it is
contended, in behalf of appellees:
1. That complainant has no such mortgage rights as are
alleged by him, because these mortgages were cancelled many
years before he acquired the judgments assigned to him.
These mortgages were cancelled by consent of complain.
ant's assignor.

SUPREME CO'URT.
AdXV.

A

Independently of this consent, they were cancelled by the
syndics by virtue of power vested in them by law, and this
was done on the 2d June, 1841.
Act of 1817, see. 81.
It is true that this act directs the proceeds of the property
to be kept subject to the same rights in favor of mortgagees
as they had on the property itself; but this mandate of the
law, as to what is to be done-with the proceeds of sale after
the mortgage has been cancelled, cannot affect the legality of
the erasure and cancellation ordered before the sale "in order
to effect it."
These mortgages claimed by complainant were also ordered
to be erased and cancelled by judgment of the court, rendered
contradictorily with the Union Bank more than four years
before the transfer by the bank to the complainant.
It is true that this last fact is not averred in the answer, and
w~s not made a question by the pleadings, but it was proven
by the -record evidence introduced by complainant himself at
the trial, and is conclusive against him.
The complainant seems to think that because the'law provides that mortgages cease to have effect after a lapse of ten
years from the registry, unless the registry be renewed, it is
therefore in the power of a mortgagee to revive a mortgage
legally cancelled and erased by the ex parte act of reinscribing
it on the books of the mortgage office. No argument can be
however, the position of the
needed on such a pretension. If,
complainant is misapprehended by us, we seek in vain for any
other basis of his assertion in the bill, that he still holds the
mortgages erased before his purchase of the judgments.
Observe, in the transfer from the bank to Hagan, the bank
does not profess to sell any mortgage claims; does not pretend
that there then, in 1849, existed any inscription of the judgments, but simply transfers its claims without any warranty.
The idea on which this suit was brought is plainly an afterthought, and the suit itself purely a speculation in litigation.,
Ag ain: The appearance and action of the bank in the concurso or meeting of creditors, and fiing the terms of sale of
the property, was a legal waiver of any right io follow the

DECEMBER TERM. 1859.
Adams v. Preston.

property, and an agreement to look alone to the proceeds in
the hands of their agents, the dyndics.
Egerton v. Creditors, 2 Rob., 201.
Saul v. Creditors, 7 N. S., 446, 447.
Finally, the sale of the property by order of court in the
artition suit extinguished the mortgages, and left the parties
entitled to them no other recourse than to claim the proceeds
of the sale. The law is the same in probate and insolvent
sales.
Fabre v. Hepp, 7 Annual, 5.
Gilmore v. Menard, 9 Annual, 212.
Williamson v. Creditors, 5 Martin, 620.
Kohn, Syndic, v. Marsh, 3 Rob. R., 48.
2. That the rights of the Union Bank, as judgment creditors, were finally settled in the Parish Court; and that thejudgmeats therein rendered for the application of the proceeds of
the sale to the payment of Hampton's heirs, and the judgments finally homologating the accounts of the syndics, are
final and conclusive adjudicatione of the suhject matter of this
suit, and form res iudicataagainst complainant.
Morgan v. Creditors, 4 La. R., 174.
Ory v. Creditors, 12 La. U., 121.
Lang v. Creditors, 14 La. R., 237.
Smith v. De Lallande, 1 Rob. R., 384.
Egerton v. Creditors, 2 Rob. R., 201.
Corion v. Millaudon, 3 Annual R., 664.
And it makes no difference that the price was not actually
paid to the syndics, but retained by Hampton's heirs in satisfaction of their claim, as this waq their legal right.
Goodale v. Creditors, 8 La. R., 302.
R1odriguez v. Dubertrand, 1 Rob. R., 535.
Robert v. Creditors, 2 Annuil, 535.
3. That complainant's claim is barred by prescription. It
is important to remark that the complainant does not allege
any recent discovery of the fraLuds charged in the bill, nor
ignorance of the alleged frauds at a date immediately after
they were committed, nor any difficulty in discovering them
as soon as committed, if due diligence had been useil.

480

SUPREME COURT.
Ada=8 v. 1A'etom

Under these circumstances, the suit to annul the judgments
and decrees of the Parish Court is barred by the lapse of one
year.
Louisiana Code of Practice, 607, 613
And the mere lapse of time, long acquiescence, and laches
of the complainant and assignors, from the sale in 1841 till
the filing of the bill, in 1853, coupled with the fact that the
complainant is a mere assignee of a right to file a bill in equity
for fraud, form a sufficient ground for the dismissal of the bill.
2 Story's Eq. Juris., sec. 1520, and authorities there cited.
Prosser v. Edmonds, 1 Younge and Coll., 481.
Ward v. Van Bottelen, 2 Paige Ch. R., 289.
Warsham and a]. v. Brown, 4 Georgia R., 284.
The complainant's right to enforce his mortgage, even if it
were valid, is prescribed by the lapse of ten years.
C. C., 3495, 3.374, sec. 6; 3508, 3444.
Lawrason v. Minturn, 11 L. R., 256.
4. That the 6riginal inscriptions of the mortgages claimed
by Hampton's heirs were valid, and that the registry of the
sale from Leroy Pope to Barrett created a privilege in their
favor, and operated as a valid reinscription ef the original
'mortgages.
C. C., 3315, 3316.
Mallard & Armistead v. Carpenter, 6 Annual R., 897.
Sauvinet v. Landreaux, 1 Annual R., 220;
Ells v. Simms, 2 Annual R., 251.
Bonaffe v. Lane, 5 Annual R., 227
5. And that the heirs of Hampton were legally and rightfully recognised as entitled to the privilege accorded by law
to partnership creditors in the partnership assets.
C. 0., 2806, 2794.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
We have given our best consideration to this record, in
zonnection with the minute statement made from: it by the
counsel of the complainant, withqut having been able to find
any cause for the reversal of the judgment.
The plaintiff sued the defendants, John S. Preston and

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

481

Adar v. Prton.

Caroline M. Preston his wife, as the joint possessore of one
hundred and thirteen negroes, and their increase, to subject
them, and the revenues which bad been derived from their
labor, to the payment of certain judgments which the plaintiff
says he owns, as the assignee of the Union Bank of Louisiana.
Those judgments had been obtained by that bank against
Thomas Barrett, a resident of the city of New Orleans. He
alleges that Barrett was the owner of the slaves when the
judgments were obtained, and that, by reason of that fact,
and the bank's assignment to him, he had a judicial mortgage
upon them, their increase and revenues, to pay the judgments.
The suit was brought in the third District Court of New
Orleans, when the defendants were sojourners there; and
being cited to answer, they appeared. Being citizens of the
State of South Carolina, they removed the cause to the United
States Circuit Court for the eastern district of Louisiana, in
which it was filed on the chancery side of the docket. There
the defendants filed a dilatory exception, in bar of the action
against Lhem; which being overruled, they were required to
answer. And they did so.
They neither admit nor deny the original validity of the
judgments against Barrett, nor the assignment of them to the
plaintiff; and they admit that the one hundred and thirteen
slaves had belonged to Barrett; but giving at the same time
their narrative of the manner in which Barrett had acquired
title to them, and the judicial proceedings under which they
bought the property. They state, in their answer, that Wade
Hampton, of South Carolina, being the owner of Whitehall
plantation, in the parish of St. James, in Louisiana, sold it on
the 8th April, 1829, to Leroy Pope, for $100,000, payable in
twenty years from the first day of January, 1830, with interest
at six per cent. per annum, payable annually. That the seller
took from Pope a mortgage on the plantation, and also an
obligation that he would add to the plantation seventy working hands, and mortgage them to Hampton, with their increase, to secure the payment of Pope's purchase and interest.
Pope, on the 23d of February following, complied with his
obligation, by mortgaging seventy working hands and thirty.
VOL. XXII.

81

SUPREME COURT.
Adam v. Festo.
one children to Hampton. He was then a resident ofo the
parish of St. James.
Pope, two years afterwards, on the 18th March, 1883, sold
the plantation and slaves to- Thomas Barrett, of New Orleans, for $151,034. In payment, Barrett assumed to pay the
debt of $100,000, and the accruing interest annually, to Hampton, and received the property, subject to the rights of Hampton upon the plantation and slaves. Two days afterwards,
Barrett conveyed one-half of his purchase to Robert Bell,with an agreement that Bell's interest should be considered
as having attached from the day of Barrett's purchase. Barrett failed to pay the interest; and Hampton being dead, his
heirs brought suits for it, and these judgments were obtained
against him in January, 1838, March, 1839, and April, 1839.
The judgments were recorded in New Orleans, where Barrett
lived; but the mortgages and conveyances given to Hampton,
and his conveyance of the plantation, were recorded, when
they were executed, in the parish of St. James, where the
slaves were, and where Pope and Bell both lived.
Barrett became embarrassed, and applied for the benefit of
the insolvent laws of Louisiana, on the 12th Vfay, 1840. In
the schedule of property surrendered to his creditors is found
an item of Whitehall plantation and one hundred and fifty
slaves, valued at $210,000, subject to the bond for 0100,000,
and the interest due thereon.
A meeting of Barrett's creditors was held on tt~e 1.5th June,
1840. Syndics were elected by them, with general discretionary powers, particularlywith the power to sue for the partition of
any property whatsoever held and owncd by the insolvent jointly with
others, and to claim partitionin kind or by sale; also, to appoint
agents for the disposal of property out of New Orleans.
Amongst the creditors at this meeting who elected the syndies was the Bank of Louisiana, by it representative, its
president. In October, after this meeting of the creditors,
i the heirs of Hampton intervened in the insolvent proceedings,
claimed their rights uuder the mortgages upon Whitehall and
upon the negroes; and they took a rule upon Magoffin and
.Morgan, the syn -lics of the creditors, to show cause why the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

.483

Adam, v. Pre,on.

plantation and negroes should not be sold, and the proceeds
applied to the payment of their claim. The rule was made
absolute, by a judgment recognising their right as mortgagees,
and ordering a sale of the property.
At a subsequent meeting of the creditors, at which the
Union Bank of Louisiana was again represented by its president, the creditors gave to the syndics .apower -to raise all
mortgages recorded against the insolvent on any estate owned
by him alone, or jointly with other persons, which had been
surrendered to his creditors,.with authorily to make partition
of the same with the co-proprietors, either amicably or judieilly.
IVpon the petition of the syndics to the judge of the Parish
Cohrt of N'ew Orleans, that act of thd creditors was homolQgated, and the syndics were authorized by the court to do all
which it empowered them to perform, by the votes of the
creditors who appeared or who were represented at the meeting.
In conformity with such powers, the syndics instituted a
suit, alleging that Whitehall plantation and slaves had been
purchased for the joint account of Barrett & Bell, and that
an action of partition was necessary, to enable them to liquidate that special partnership. They also asked that the proceeds of the crop made on the plantation might be deposited
in bank, subject to the order of the court; that an inventory
and appraisement of the property should be made, and returned into couft; and that such proceedings might be had as
would lead to a prompt and final settlement of the partnership.
Dell united in this petition, and declared himself to be a
creditor of the partnership; prayed for a settlement of it&
affairs, and for the allowance in his favor of a lien on the partnership property, for such suni as might be fbund due to him.
The heirs of THampton intervened in this partition suit,
stating their claims upon the property as mortgage creditors;
and ilsisted that the property should be sold, subject to the
assumptions, by whoever might become at the sale vendee, for
the payment of their claim, principal and interest.

SUPREME COURT.
Adam v. Preston.
On the 6th of February, 1841, the court gave a judgment,
sustaining the claims of Hampton's heirs, and directing the
sale of the property, with the condition, "that the vendees
should assume the payment to Mary Hampton, John S. Preston and wife, and John L. Manning and wife, of 0100,000,
payable on the 1st of January, 1856, with six per cent. interest from the 1st of January, 1841; and, further, that it should
be taken as a term and condition of the sale, that the purchaser should specially mortgage and keep mortgaged the
plantation to the intervenors, and the .Righty-one slaves described in the inventory, to them and their heirs and assigns."
The property was advertised and sold by the sherh pursuant to this judgment; was bought by the heirs of Hampton
for $116,000; was paid for by surrendering to the sheriff the
bond of Leroy Pope for $100,000, and by applying arrears of
interest due on that'bond to the payment of $16,000. An account was filed a few days afterwards, by the heirs of Hamp.
ton, of the whole amount due them, and after giving credit fof
the $116,000, and there was still remaining due 811,248.11,
A rule was then taken on both the plaintiff and defendants,
by the heirs of Hampton, for them to show cause why the account should not be approved, and their demand against the
partnership of Barrett & Bell be liquidated, at the sum of
$11,248.111; and why the same should not be paid out of any
money belonging to the partnership.
Upon the rule a judgment was rendered on the 28d April,
1844, according to its purport, declaring that, after having
credited the account with $116,000, there was still due to the
heirs of Hampton, by the partnership of Barrett & Bell, the
sum of $11,248.111, and a judgment was passed in their favor
for that sum, against Mrs. Caroline Bell, the -heir of Robert
Bell, and J. B. Hullen, who had been elected the syndie of
the creditors in the place of Magoffin and Morgan. A representative of the Union Bank was present, and voting for
Hullen.
A final judgment was afterwards rendered, settling all matters in dispute between the parties to the suit. The proceeds

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

485

Adam v. Pretm
of the crop were appropriated to the payment of legal charges;
and, that being insufficient for that purpose, the heirs of Hampton were required to pay $2,020.51, in satisfaction of them-it
being declared that the legal charges were higher in rank than
their privilege upon the copartnership fund. The heirs paid
the amount, and that was a final settlement of all the matters
in controversy between plaintiff, defendants, and intervenors.
Contemporary with the proceedings in the partition suit,
the matters connected with Barrett's insolvency were concluded in the same court.
Among other acts done by the syndics, Magoffin and Mor.
gal, was their petition to the Parish Court of New Orleans to
be discharged from their office of syndics in the insolvency of
Thomas Barrett and Thomas Barrett & Co. They annexed to
their petition an account of the collections and disbursements
which had been made by them since their last account had
been filed. They showed that they were, as syndics, parties to
a number of suits, which were still pending; refer particularly to
the partition suit instituted by them, and still pending, against
Robert Bell, as the partner of Barrett; pray that the creditors
of the insolvent may be ordered to meet to elect other syndics,
on account of their not being able to act longer in that capacity, as their private affairs compelled them to leave the State
of Louisiana.
The court gave an order upon this petition, that the parties itkterested show cause, within ten days from the publication of the order, why the accounts of the syndics should not
be homologated, why the funds dated by the syndics should
not be distributed in accordance therewith, and why the syndies should not be discharged. And it further ordered, that
a meeting of the creditors should be held on Wednesday, the
9th May, to elect another syndic in place of Magoffin and
Morgan.
Such a meeting was held. James B. Hullen was elected
by the creditors sole syndic, with all the powers which had
beein conferred by the creditors at former meetings upon Magoffin and Morgan They were thea discharged by the court
from their functions as syndics, upon their paying the hal.

SUPREME COURT.
Adams v. Preston.

ances in their hands to the parties entitled thereto, reserving
to themselves, howevel, whatever claim they might have on
the sale of the Whitehall plantation; and James B. Hullen
was confirmed as sole syndic'of Barrett and Thomas Barrett
& Co. This order was given by the court on the 20th May,
1842.
Seven days after the meeting of the creditors had been held,
pursuant to the order of the court, Christopher Adams, jun.,
president of the Union Bank, filed a paper in the court,
acknowledging himself to be fully cognizant of all the proceedings of the meeting; that he was present an it; that the
bank was a creditor; that IHIullen had been unanimously
elected by the creditors sole syndic, in place or the former
syndics, on the same terms and conditions that they had been,
with the same powers which the creditors had conferred upon
the former syndics. And further shows, that at the meeting
on the 9th May, 1842, he had voted for the dispensation of
Hullen from giving the security required by law to be given
by syndics.
This narrative discloses the connection of the Hamptons
Wiith the proceedings of the syndicsi and in the partnership suit
which they had brought against Bell to settle his claim as a
partner in the purchase of the Whitehall plantation and slaves.
Thus matters remained for nine years, no one supposing that
there was any irregularity in the judicial proceedings under
which the heirs of Hampton bad bought the property, the
bank all the time acquiescing in the result. Indeed, nothing
wis done without the knowledge of the bank; everything that
was done was with its approbation. The record shows that
every step taken by the syndics for the settlement of Barrett's
insolvency was in conformity with the powers which the creditors had given to'them. But nine years after the final and
conclusive settlement of the whole matter in controversy, the
president and directors of the bank assigned to the plaintiff in
this suit live judgmienits, which the bank had obtained against
Thomas Barrett in 1838 and 1839. Upon this assignment it
is that the plaintiff now clainis that these judgments were a
wortgage upon the Whitehall plantation and slaves. He

*DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

487

Adams v. .Pea.

alleges that all the proceedings in the Parish Court of the
parish and city of New Orleans, in the matter of the insolvency, were irregular; that the disposition of property surrendered by Barrett for his creditors, and the creditors of Thomas
Barrett & Co., "were irregular, insufficient, null, and void,"
and had been procured by fraudulent combination between
the heirs of Hampton with Bell, and with the syndics of the
creditors, for the purpose of defrauding the Union Bank particularly. Ie also alleges that the Union Bank has not been
a party to the suit of the syndics, and that neither the bank
nor himself are in any way bound by its proceedings. And
the fraud with which he charges the defendants is, that they
claimed as creditors of Barrett, under the mortgage which
Leroy Pope had made to their ancestor, Hampton, when the
plantation was bought from him, and which Barrett assumed
to pay when he purchased from Pope, well knowing at the
time that the efficacy of the inscription of the mortgages upon
both plantation and slaves had expired, according to law,
without any renewal of the registry of them. The defendants
deny, in their answer, the fraud charged, or fraud of any kind,
in their intervention in the proceedings in insolvency. No
attempt was made to prove it; consequently, the plaintiff's
whole case depends upon his assertion that there are irregularities in the suit, and in the rendition of a judgment, and
under which the heirs of Hampton purchased the property at
sheriff's sale, which made thatjudgment a nullity. The plaintiff is the assignee of the Union Bank, and the argument in
support of his claim as assignee is, that he is entitled to i
judgment, subjecting the property to the payinnt of the
judgments which the bank had obtained agahist Barrett, unless the mortgages of the bank were extinguislied by the sale
made by the sheriff to the heirs of Hampton, and unless the
settlement between the syndics, Robert Bell, and the heirs of
Hampton, upon the judgments rendered in the cases of the
syndics and Bell, are resjudicata.
These positions are in themselves an abandonment of the
charge of fraud, originally made, and for no other purpose
than to give to the Circuit Court jurisdiction of the case

SUPREME COURT.
Adams v. Pestmn.

against the defendants, and without which the court cou.d
not have taken jurisdiction. With what propriety, then,
carn this court now be called upon to review a judgment
of the Parish Court of New Orleans. for any irregularity
or illegality in the proceedings of that court, if either existed, when there could have been an appeal to the Supreme Court of Louisiana for its correction? This court
has never, done so in any case in which the subject matter of
a suit, being within the jurisdiction of a State court, upon the
allegation that its judgment had been given contrary to the
law of a State. See the cases of Fonvergne et al. v. City of
N. 0., 18 Howard, 471; Gaines v. Chew et al., 2 Howard, 619,
644; and Tarver v. Tarver, 9 Peters, 174. The Parish Court
of New Orleans had, by law, full power over all the property
ceded by the insolvent, and over the claims of each of the
creditors. It exercised its jurisdiction, and the legality of its
judgment cannot be questioned by this court. Besides, the
courts of the United States have no jurisdiction over the settlement of insolvencies in the State courts. The Parish Court
had not only jurisdiction, but exclusive jurisdiction, over the
property surrendered, and the distribution of it among the
creditors of the insolvent. By the laws of Louisiana, the
property surrendered becomes vested in the creditors, represented by the syndics as their trustee. Schroeder v. Nicholson, 2 Lou. R., 354; Morgan v. Creditors, 7 Lou. R., 62;
Dwight v. Linn., 4 An., 492. And the creditors of an insolvent who become parties to the insolvent proceedings are
prohibited from seeking remedies in any other court of the
State of Louisiana. Jacobs v. Bogart, 7 Rob. Rep., 162; Marsh
v. Marsh, 9 Rob. Rep., 46; Tyler et al. v. Creditors, 9 Robinson. It is also declared, in the Civil Code, (art. 165, sec. 3,)
"that, in all matters relative to failures, all suits already commenced, or which may be subsequently instituted against the
debtor, must be carried before the court in which the failure
has been declared;" and "where a party claims from the syndics goods which hail been surrendered by an insolvent, the
suit may be brought before the court where the eonwso ie
pending." 2 Robinson, 348.

DECEIMBER TERM, 1859.
Adarm v. Prcstoim

The want of jurisdiction, then, in the courts of the United
States, to review the proceedings of the Parish Court of New
Orleans, in a case of insolvency, is, of itself, sufficient to prevent the court from giving to the plaintiff a decree in this
suit.
There are, however, other grounds sufficient, to be found in
the record, from which we have concluded that the plaintiff
has neither an equitable claim against the defendants in this
proceeding, nor any right, under the law of Louisiana, to subject the property in controversy to the judgments of which he
is the assignee. But we shall confine ourselves to the discussion of one of them.
The judgments of the Union Bank, if they ever had at any
time mortgage rights against the Whitehall plantation, and
the slaves upon it, better than the mortgages given by Leroy
Pope at the time of his purchase, and which were assumed by
Barrett when he bought the property, and which were equally
obligatory upon Bell, when himself and Barrett formed their
particular partnership in respect to that property, those judgments had been legally cancelled before they were assigned to
the plaintiff by the bank. It will be found, at pages 20 and
21 of the record, that the assignor of the plaintiff united with
the other creditors in giving to the syndics the power to raise
all mortgages granted by or recorded by Thomas Barrett, or
Thomas Barrett & Co., on any real estate owned by Barrett,
jointly with other persons, and surrendered by him to his
creditors, with power also to effect partitions of the said property with his co-prpprietors, either amicably orjudicially, &c.,
&c.
The creditors, too, authorized the syndics, or either of them,
to vote, deliberate, and give their opinion for them, at any
subsequent meeting of the creditors of Barrett, or Thomas
Barrett & Co. Aind the powers so given to the syndics were
homologated by the judge of the Parish Court of New Orleans. Under such a power, the syndics might have erased
the judicial mortgages of the bank in the fair and bona fide
discharge of their relation to the creditors as their trustees,
und the bank would have been bound by their action. Bnt

SUPREME COURT.
Adm v. Prwfm~,

they proceeded,. according to law, to have the judicial mort
gages of the bank cancelled; and they were cancelled on the
1st of February, 1841. This cancellation was made by the
syndics, in conformity with the thirty-second section of the
act of February, 1817, entitled, "An act relative to the voluntary surrender of property, and to the mode of proceeding, as
well for the direction as for the disposal of debtors' estates,"
&c., &c. The erasure and cancellation of mortgages may be
made in Louisiana, by consent or by order of the court. Articles 3335, 3336. In this instance, the erasure was made by
the judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction; when by
the latter, it has the effect of a resjudicata. 7 Rob., 382, 518;
11 Rob., 171.. After the erasure so made, there can be no
subsequent reinseription of a mortgage. That which was
made in 1848 revived no lien upon the property which the
bank's mortgages may have had before they were erased. But
there was another erasure of the bank's judicial mortgages in
a suit brought by Barrett against it, before its assignment war
made of its judgments against Barrett to Hagan, the plaintiff.
Rec., 83, 88, 94, 99, 103. It was done by a court having competent jurisdiction, and it concluded the right of the bank to
convey its judgments to the plaintiff as.judicial mortgages,
though they might be transferred as judgments to entitle the
assignee to a participation in any unadmiistered proceeds
made from the sale of the property surrendered by the insolvent for his creditors. But neither the reinscription of 1848,
nor the assignment to the plaintitl could have the effect to
give to the plaintiff any claim upon property of th6 insolvent
which had been sold under the judgment of a court having
jurisdiction in insolvency. The property now claimed by the
plaintiff, as subject to his assignment, had been recognised by
the judgment of the Parish Court to be subj-ct to the claims
of the heirs of Iampton; had been ordered by the court to be
sold by the sheriff; had been sold by him, and adjudicated to
the purchasers; and the consideration money of the purchase
had been accounted for by the sheriff to the syndics of the insolvent, and -by them accounted for to the court, in strict ac%ordance with its order, nine years tefore the bank made an

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Honvid d A v. Gr mw

d A.

assignment to Hagan. The sale could not have been in any
way subject to the judicial mortgages of the bank, .norcould
it in any way affect the property purchased by the defendants.
Indeed, there can be no doubt that, after the appearance of the
bank in the concurso of the creditors, and its acquiescence with
them in fixing the terms-for the sale of the property of the insolvent, it must be taken as a waiver by the bank of all its rights
to pursue it for the payment of its judgments against Barrett,
the insolvent, and that it would look to the proceeds of its sale,
as the other creditors did, for the satisfaction of their respective
claims. Egerton v. Creditors, 2 Rob., 201; Saul v. Creditors,
7 N. S., 446, 447. Without pursuing the discussion further, we
have concluded that the bank, when it assigned its judgments
to the plaintiff, had no mortgage lien on the Whitehall plantation and slaves to transfer; that the language of the assignment, interpreted by the acknowledged acts of the bank in the
insolvency, cannot mean any such transfer, and that the judgment and sale under the partition suit barred the bank from
making such an assignment, and the plaintiff from any such
claim as he has made in his bill.
We direct the affirmance of the decree of the Circuit Court.

JOHN HOWLAND, SAMUEL MEEKER, JOHN CHADWICK,AND OLIVER
S. HALSTEAD, JUN., CLAIMANTS OF THE BARQUE GRIFFIN, HER
TACKLE, &C., APPELLANTS, v. JOHN GREENWAY AND GEORGE
S. DictsoN, LIBELLANTS.
The regulations at the port or Rio Janeiro require the master of a foreign vessel,
upon her arrival at the port, to deliver to the proper officer, upon his visit to
the vessel, his passport, mai.ifest, and list of passengers. He is also required,
at the end of the manifest, to make such declarations or statement for his
security, by adding any packages that may be omitted or exceeded in the
manifest, giving his reason for such omissions; no excuse will afterwards be
admitted for any omissions or error.
The regulations further declare that, when it is proved that the vessel brought
more goods than are specified or contained in the manifest, and not declared
by the master, such goods will be seized and divided among the seizors, the
master also paying into the national treasury a fine of one-half their value,
besides the customary dutics thereon.

