DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Aro ork and Bal. Trans. Co. v. PiZ.and Savannah SeamVaviation Co.

occasion has arisen in this case, when it becomes necessary to
affirm it- as a rule, to guide us in all 6ther cases hereafter
which may be circumstanced as this is.
The decree of the District Court in this case is affirmed.

THE NEW YORK AND BALTIMORE TRANSPORTATION COMPANY,
.APPELLJ1NTS, V. THE PHILADELPHIA AND SAVANNAH

NAVIGATIOCJ CoMP
STATE.

STEAM

, OWNERS OF THE STEAMSHIP KEYSTONE

In a collision which took place in the river Delaware, between a steamship and
a barge which was in tow of a propeller, the latter was in fault.
The lookout was not properly stationed, being in a place where his view was
obstructed; and the propeller violated the rule which requires steamers ap
proaching each other from opposite directions to port their helms, and pass
each other on the larboa -dside.
A propeller with a barge in tow is not within the rule which applies to sailing
vessels, and which requires steamships to keep out of their way. Propellers

have nearly the same speed as side-wheel steamers, and quite as much power.
and must be subject to the same rules of navigation.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
It was a case of collision between the steamship Keystone
State and a barge called the A. Groves, jun., which took place
on the river Delaware, whereby the barge was sunk in the
river, and her cargo greatly damaged.

The facts of the case are fully stated in the opinion of the
court.
The libel was filed by the New York and Baltimore Trans.
portation Company against the owners of the Keystone State
The District Court dismissed the libel, and the Circuit Court,
upon appeal, affirmed the decree. The libellants then appealed
to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Wharton and Mr. hkey for the appel
lants; and by Mr. McCall and Mr. Campbell for the appelleef

SUPREME COURT.
NZQew Fbrk and BaV- ~Alfns Co. v. PMR and Zwnza Skeazz YAavatim Oo.

The points of fact averd by the respective counsel were
stated briefly and clearly, and each position. maintained by
references to the evidence. They were as follows:

Points of 11W averred by, eke .LBMWlnt
1. The Artisan, with her tow, was on the Jersey side of the
channel, near the buoy on the lower end of Marcus Hcokbr,
steering a course having Christine Light on her starboard

bow.
2. The opposing vessels were nearly opposite the same point
on the Pennsylvania side, (viz: Naaman's Creek,) when the
steamship ported her helm.
3. By porting her helm, the steamship must have run acrosa
the channel.
The respondent's witnesses cannot say what course the
steamship was steering when she ported her helm.
4. The channel was from a half to three-fourths of a mile
wide, and the speed of the steamship was from nine to ten
miles per hour.
That speed was maintained until she reached the propeller,
and she came in line with her by porting the helm.
5. There was no necessity fbr the steamship to port her
helm, and it was one cause of the disaster. When she did it,
she was aware of the presence of the Artisan.
6. If the steamship had kept her course without porting, the
vessels would have passed.
7. The propeller did all that she could to avoid the disaster,
and escaped. The tow was comparatively helpless, and suffered.
She was etruck on the starboard side, about thirty feet from
her stern, in 4a diagonal line inclining theretb, her whole length
being about eighty feet. A touch of the wheel of the steamship to starboard would have cleared the barge.

Point of Lawo rebWe on1 by Libellanis.
1. The Artisan and her tow were not on an equality with
th, Keystone State, and the rules, whether statutory or judicia', applicable to vessels on an' equality with respect to ca.
paity'of self-management, are not applieale to the foi nir.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

463

New York and Balt. Z-ans. Co. v. P7il. and aannah Steam Navigation." o

The act of Congress of August 80, 1852, (10 Stat. at Large,
61-72,) applies only to passenger steamers.
See section 42.
So, also, the rules of the inspectors, under the authority
of the 29th seeton, in the matter of vessels passing each
other, signal lights, &c., embrace only the same class of steamboats, and are intended to avoid collisions between such vessels.
Those rules were, however, obligatory on the Keystone
State. The fifth rule of the Supervising Inspectors, adopted
October 29, 1852, provides that it shall not be lawful for an
ascending boat to cross a channel when a descending boat is
so near that it would be possible for a collision to ensue therefrom.
This rule was violated by the steamer.
Although not bound by the statute, the propeller did adopt
the dictates of prudence and good seamanship, by keeping in
to the Jersey side of the channel, and leaving the centre of it
free.
A tug with a tow in charge is at least as helpless, in comparison with a steamer, as a sailing vessel; and with respect
to the latter, the rule is "wellsettled, that the steamer meeting
such a one .Mustgive way.
Fashion v. Wards, 6 McLean, 153.
New York and Liverpool Mail Steamship Co. v. Rumball,
21 Howard, 872.
The Oregon v. Rocca et al., 18 Howard, 570.
'St. John v. Paine et al., 10 Howard, 588.
The Genesee Chief, 12 Howard, 451.
There is nothing in our case to make it an -exceptional one,
or subject it to other rules of navigation.
The Keystone -State could have avoided the collision, by
either of two very simple modes. She could have stopped her
engines in time, or she could have put her helm to starboard,
having the channel to her larboard free; and by the law of
1852, and the decisions of this court, she was bound to avoid
the collision if possible.
" 2. It being night, and the steamer approaching the harbor,

SUPREME COURT.
.Nw Nork and Balt. 'rans. Co. v. Pil.

an7 Savannah Steam NarigTation Co

it was her duty to proceed slowly and with caution. Not haying done so, she is responsible for the consequences.
Culbertson t. Shaw, 18 Howard, 584.
Steamer Louisiana s. Fisher et al., 21 Howard, 1.
Peck v. Sanderson, 17 Howard, 178.
The James Watt, 2 W. Rob., 271.
The Birkenhead, 8 W. Rob., 75.
Steamboat New York v. Rea, 18 Howard, 228.
8. Even if the libellants committed any fault, (which is,
however, denied,) a.small exertion on the part of the respondents being sufficient to have prevented a collision, they were
hound to make it.
The Genesee Chief, 12 Howard, 461; (ut supra.)
St. John v. Paine, 10-Howard, 557.
Nei*ton v. Stebbins, 10 Howard, 586.
4. If both vessels were in fault, it was an err:r to throw the
whole loss on the. libellants; the damages sb. uld have been
"livided.
Brig James Gray v. John Frazer, 21 Howard, 184.
Schooner Catharine et al. v, Dickinson et al., 17 Howard,
170.
Chamberlain v. Ward, 21 Howard, 548.
The barge (the tow) followed the course of the Artisan, (the
tug,) and obeyed her movements. She was entirely under her
control. There is'no evidence of. any fault imputable- to the
barge; rier being, therefore, the thing which actually came
into collision with the steamer, makes no difference.
The James Gray, (ut supra,) 21 Howard, 194.
The question arises from the relative condition and action
"
of the Artisan and the Keystone State.

Points of .Zataverred by Appdkes.
1. Independently of all regulations, and-of the rules of the
maritime law, the usage of the river requires .that approaching
steamers shall port their helms and keep to the right in passing.
2. The vessels, steamer and propeller, with ler tow, were,
when first seen by each other, in or near the miadle of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Yew York and Bal. Trans. Co. v. PAR. and

465

vannah Steam Navigation Co.

ship channel, and the channel was of the width of three-quarters of a mile. The river, from shore to shore, was wholly
unobstructed, and no reason of any character is suggested
which should have caused a deviation, on the part of the propeller, from the law and usage which required the steamers
to port their helms, and pass larboard to larboard.
3. The propeller, from the time the lights were first discovered, was duly reported by the lookout, and, for the distance
of two or three miles, was kept constantly and attentively in
view by the pilot of the steamship. The helm of the steamship was ported and the lights of the propeller kept a point
or a point and a half on the larboard bow; when in close
proximity, a wrongful, change of direction on the part of those
having charge of the propeller, by starboarding he r helm, instead of porting it as, they should have done, ran her across
the bows of the steamer, and caused the collision of the barge
with the steamship.
4. Those on board the propeller appear to have had no
lookout; utterly disregarded the lights of the steamer, which
clearly indicated her direction; made no change of course of
any kind until the collision was imminent, and then the
wrongful movement above referred to.
5. The pilot of the steamship, on perceiving this wrongful
movement, which brought both vessels in peri'l, ordered the
helm hard a-port, and the steamship to be slowed and stopped,
which orders were instantly complied with, and the steamship was almost, if not entirely, at rest at the time of the collision.
The effect of these orders, which were prudent and neces
sary, was to enable the propeller to go clear; but she, being
still under full headway, brought the barge in contact with
the steamship.
6. NTo timely precaution of any kind was used by the pro.
peller to avert the collision.
7. The steamship was proceeding up the river at a lowei
rate of speed than upon other parts of her voyage, and cautiously, with pilot and lookout.
8. The barge was attached to the propeller by a hawser, drag.
VOL. XXII.
30

SUPREME COUR T.
ew York and BaU. Zfraw. Co. v. Phil.and Sw~annal Skam 11mimn Ca.

ging bel-ow her in a direct line, at the distance of 180 feet, in
such mratter that it was impossible for the pilot of the stieamship to lip the barge until the moment of collision.
9. If the barge had been attached to the -propeller's side, or
near her, or under her cohtrobl the'collision would not have
accirred, the propeller passing fully clear of the steamer, with
a space of fifty feet intervening..
10. If the propeller had ported her helm, as required by law
and the usage of the river, or had even slowed her speed, her
'tow would have cleared the steamship; and the fact that those
on the propeller saw the red 'and white light of the steamer
only, clearly exhibited the necessity for such movements; it
necessarily follows, that when the 'bright and red light only
are seen, the larboard side of the vessel is in view.
11. When those on board'the propeller first saw the sWeaier,
the propeller was above the buoy on the lower eiid of Marcus
Hook. The channel below that point being on the western
or Pennsylvania side of the river, gave to the steamship coning up the middle of the channel the appearance of being
toward the Pennsylvania side. This may account for the
erroneous statement of some of the libellant's witnesses, that
the steamer was on the Pennsylvania side, and not in the midchannel.
Map Coast Survey.
12. The captain of the propeller states that she had the
Christin6 light a little on her starboard bow, but before the
collision, and before his wrongful order to, starboaid, the captain also says: We were near the middle of the river, steaming
down. The latter statement must be taken as correct, espe•cially in view of the respondent's evidence. In any event it
would not be inconsistent:with the fact that the steamer wao
in the middle of the channel.

Points of ?z= rdied on by Appdlew.
1. The act of Congress of 1852, 10 Statutes'at Large, 61-72,
and the rules of the supervising inspectors appointed under the
same, were applicable to the Keystone State, as a passenger
ateamer, and to the propeller also, if carrying passengers, a

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
ew York and Ball. Brans. Co. v. PUL. and S vannah

467
eam Naogation Co.

set forth in the libel, so far as respects lights and move.
ments.
2. The admiralty rules are imperative-they are obligatory
upon vessels approaching each other from the time the necessity for precaution begins, and continue so long as they advance.
'N. Y. and L. U. S. S. Co.-v. Rumball, 21 Howard, 388.
8. The rule laid down is, that when two steam vessels are
approaching each other, each shall port, and go to the right,
passing each other larboard and larboard.
This rule is imperative in English courts of admiralty, and
fully adopted by the United States courts.
The Duke of Sussex, 1 Win. Rob., 285.
The Gazelle, 1 Win. Rob., 471.
The James Watt, 2 Win. Rob., 271.
St. John et al. v Paine, 10 Howard, 558.
Origin et al. v the Rocca, 18 Howard, 572.
Wheeler v. the Steamer Eastern State, 2 Curtis, 142.
4. A propeller, w.hether carrying passengers or engaged and
used only for towing, and when having a tow in charge, is still
a steamer, subject to all the general rules applicable to steamers; and the rule of law makes no such distinction as would
require them to be considered with respect to other steamers
as sailing vessels; on the contrary, a steamer with a tow in
charge is bound to adopt the same rules with regard to a sailing vessel as a passenger steamer; no distinction is recognised
between them.
Steamer New York v. Rea, 18 Howard, 228.
They are required also to have a lookout, charged specially
with the duty.
Chamberlain v. Ward, 21 Howard 571.
5. It was the duty of the propeller to have a competent and
vigilant lookout stationed at the forward part of the steamer,
in the position best adapted to descry vessels at the earliest
moment, actually and vigilantly employed in the performance
of that duty.
St. John v. Paine, 10 How., 557.
Chamberlain v. Ward, 21 How., 548.

SUPREME COURT.
lew York and Ball. Trans. Co. v. Phil.and Savannah Steam avifgation Co

The James Gray v. the John Frazer, 21 How., 192.
6. No such condition of things existed at the time and place
of the collision as required the speed of the steamer to be reduced more than that stated in the evidence. The distance
from the port of Philadelphia was twenty miles, and there were
no vessels at anchor, or otherwise to interfere with the full
use of the whole channel.
Steamer Nqew York v. Rea, 18 Howard, 228.
Culberston v. Siaw, 18 Howard, 584.
The James Gray v. the John Frazer, 21 Howard, 185.
7. The 5th rule of the sqpervising inspectors, adopted
October 29th, 1852, is cited in appellant's brief as providing,
"that it shall not be lawful for an ascending boat to cross 9
channel when a descending boat is so near that it would be
possible for a collision to ensue therefrom." This rule (the
appellants aver) was violated by the steamer. The rule cited
refers exclusively to boats navigating the "rivers falling intv
the Gulf of Mexico and its tributaries."
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, in -a
cause of collision, civil and maritime.
It was a suit in rem 'against the steamship the Keystone
State, brought by the appellants as the owners of the barge
known das the A. Groves, jun., to recover damages on account
of a collision which took place on the eighteenth day of August, 1857, between the steamer and- the barge on the river
Delaware, whereby the barge was sunk in the river, and her
cargo was greatly damaged.
At the time of the disaster the barge was in tow of a propeller, called the AXtisan, which was also owned by the appellants, and to which the barge was attached by a hawser, about
one hundred and seventy feet in length. It occurred between
one and two o'clock in the morning, about twenty miles below
the city of Philadelphia, to which port the steamer was bound
an her return trip from Savannah, in the State of Georgia.
According to the case made in the libel, the propeller, with

DEOEMBER TERM, 1859.

460

ew York and Bait. Trans. Co. v. Phil.and Savannah Steam Navation Co.

the barge in tow, was on her way from the city of New York
to the city of B'altimore, with her tisual complement of freight.
She was proceeding down the river, on the eastern side of the
channel, and the steamer was coming up the river, on the
opposite side of the channel, with ample room to have kept
clear of the barge.
To show that neither the propeller nor the barge was in
fault, it is alleged by the libellants that both those vessels had
proper lights, and that the propeller had sufficient lookouts
properly stationed on the vessel, and that they were vigilantly
employed in the performance of their duties. They also allege that the steamer, when about three-quarters of a mile
distant from the propeller, changed her course more- out into
the stream of the river, heading diagonally across the channel,
in the direction of the descending vessels, and ran with great
force and violence against the barge, striking her bn the star- board side, near the after gangway, and cutting her down to
such an extent that she immediately sunk in the river. In
this connection they also allege that the barge, at the time of
the collision, was laden with a cargo of merchandise, valued
at seventy thousand dollars, and that the goods were damaged
by the disaster to an amount equal to half their estimated
value.
It is denied by the respondents that the circumstances atfending the collision are truly stated in the libel. On the
contrary, they aver that it was occasioned wholly through the
fault and gross negligence of those in charge of the descending vessels. To lay the foundation for that theory, they
allege that while the steamer was proceeding up the river at
mid-channel, in the regular course of her voyage, and when
about four miles below Marcus Hook, the second mate, pilot,
and lookout of the steamer, discovered lights directly ahead,
which appeared to be about three miles distant; that the
steamer continued her course up the channel, keeping the
lights on her larboard bow, but as near ahead as was practicable; that after continuing that course for some time, and when
about a mile distant from the lights, they were found- t6 be
the lights of the propeller, and appeared'to be at mid-channel.

SUPREME COURT'
&z iVvigation Co
New York and Bat. Z-an. Co. v. PAZhl, and Bavan, A M

Orders were then given by the pilot of the steamer to port hey
helm, so as to bring the lights of the propeller a point on the lar.
board bow of the steamer; and the order was forthwith obeyed.
At that time the steamer, as alleged in the answer, was heading northeast by east; and she continued on that course, keepiug the lights of the propeller one point on her larboard bow,
until she approached within three hundred yards of the lights,
when thepropeller suddenly starboarded her helm, and attempted to cross the bows of the steimer. On seeing the propeller change her. course in that direction, the pilot of the
steamer gave the signal to slow and stop in immediate succession, and the orders, as alleged, were promptly obeyed. Those
orders were so far carried into effect that the propeller passed
on her course without.injury; but the barge was dragged by
the hawser directly against the bows of the steamer, and thereby received the damage, as alleged in the libel.
Such is the substance of the pleadings, respecting the circumstances attending the collision, so far as it is necessary tc
examine them at the present time.
Af6er the hearing in the District Court, a decree was entered
for the respondents, dismissing the libel; and.on appeal to the
Circuit Court, that decree was affirmed-whereupon the libellauts appealed to this court.
As appears by,the proofs, the steamer, at the time of the
collision,'was well manned and equipped, and was in charge
of a branch pilot, fully qualified to conduct and manage steam
vessels on that river. She was Eside-wheel steamer, of fifteen
hundred tons burden, engaged n carrying freight and passengers, and had proper lights and sufficient and vigilant
lookouts. They discovered the lights of the propeller when
she was three miles distant, and continued to watch the lights
till the collision occurred. On the other hand, the propeller
was a vessel of one hundred and twenty-two tons burden, and
the tonnage of the barge was about the same.
Three men, the master, the wheelsman, and one of the
watchnien, were on the deck of the propeller at the time of
the collision. All of the other hands, including the pilot,
were below. Of those on deck, the master ws standing for-

DEOEMBER TERM, 1859.
New

471

ork and Balt. Arans. Co. v. Phil. and Savannah Steam Navigation Co.

ward of the pilot-house, but the watchman was standing aft
the house, which he admits was higher than his head, so that
he could not see over it. His position for a lookout was
clearly an improper one, as the view forward was entirely
obstructed by the house of the vessel. Chamberlain and al.
v. Ward and al., 21 How., 570. Lookouts stationed in positions where the view forward, or on the side of the. vessel to
which they are assigned, is obstructed by the lights or any
part of the vessel, do not constitute a compliance with the
requirement of the law.
To constitute such a compliance, they must be persons of
suitable experience, properly stationed on the vessel, and actively and vigilantly employed in the performance of that duty.
In this case, however, it appears that the steamer was
actually seen by the master, who was in charge of the deck,
in season to have adopted every necessary precaution to have
avoided the disaster, but he admits that he did not pay much
attention to the approaching vessel. When he first saw her,
he says she was proceeding right up the river, but adds, that
in the course of five minutes she changed her course, and ran
from the western towards the eastern shore, which is the
theory set up in the libel. According to the evidence, the
speed of the steamer was nine or ten miles an hour, and that
of the propeller was seven or eight miles an hour, with an ebb
tide. At the place where the collision occurred, the channel
of the river is about three-fourths of a mile wide, and the
evidence shows that there is a cove or bend in the river below,
so that a vessel coming up the river in the night-time would
appear to an inattentive or casual observer, standing on the
deck of a descending vessel, as being near the western shore,
when in point of fact she was at mid-channel. Witnesses on
both sides were examined as to the character of the night,
and they generally agree, that while it was somewhat cloudy,
there were intervening stars, and that it was not unusually
dark.
Two propositions were chiefly relied on by the libellants.
In the first place it was insisted in their behalf, that the propeller, with the barge in tow, ought to be regarded in the

472

SUPREME COURT.

ew York and Balt. 'an. Co. v. Pkhl. and S&vannah Steam azgafom Co

same light as a sailing vessel, and that it was the duty of the
steamer to keep out.of the way. No authority was cited in
support of the pr9position, and we are not aware of any deaided case that favors that view of the law. Steamers are
required to keep out of the way of sailing vessels, upon the
ground that their power and speed are far greater than vessels
of the latter class, and because those in charge of them can
more readily and effectually command and appropriate that
power and speed so as to avoid a collision, when it would be
impossible for the sailing vessel to keep out of the way.. St.
John v.'Paiue, 10 How., 583. The Genesee Chief, 12 How.,
463. Steamship Co. v. Rumball, 21 How., 384. None of the
reasons on which the rule is founded, as applied to sailing
vessels, exist in a case like the present. Propellers have nearly the same spe~d as side-wheel steamers, and quite as much
power. Whether they obey the helm as readily or not, may
admit of a question, but there is not sufficient difference in
that behalf to justify any discrimination whatever in the application of the rules of navigation. If they take other craft in
tow, those in charge of them ought to augment their vigilancein proportion to the embarrassments they have to' encounter,
especially when they do not see fit to slacken their speed.
It is insisted, in the second place, that the collision was
occasioned through the fault of the steamer; that she changed
her course and attempted to pass the bows of the propeller,
as is alleged in the libel.
On the part of the respondents, this proposition of facts is
denied, and they insist that the fault was committed by the
propeller, in omitting to port her helm and go to the right. Beyond question, the law is well settled that steamers approadhing
each other from opposite directions are respectively bound to
port their helms and pass each other on the larboard side.
No attempt was made at the argument to controvert the
proposition, and it is too firmly established by decided cases
to require any argument in its support. The Duke of Sussex,
1 Win. Rob., 285. The Gazelle, 1 Wim. Rob., 471. The
James Watt, 2 Win. Rob., 271. St. John v. Paine, 10 How.,
558. The Oregon v. -Rocca, 18 How., 572. Wheeler v. the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

478

Adam v. Prertmn

Eastern State, 2 Cur. C. C., 142. Much testimony was introduced on the one side and the other upon this point, and it is
somewhat conflicting. All that can be done under the circumstances with any possible advantage to either party will
be to state our conclusions upon the evidence. After a careful examination of the depositions, we think it is clearly proved
that both vessels as they approached each other were near midchannel, Most of the witnesses on board the steamer expressly
affirm that she was near mid-channel whenthe lights of the propeller were first discovered, and they all agree that her helm
was not changed, except for the purpose of bringing the lights
of the propeller one point on her larboard bow, until the propeller starboarded her helm, and attempted to cross the bows
of the steamer. That movement of the propeller was a direct
violation of the rules of navigation, and was entirely without
any excuse. Her master may have been deceived as to the
course of the steamer, by the slight bend in the river; but if
so, it is the misfortune of those who employed him that he
was not better acquainted with the navigation, or more attentive to his duty.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed with
costs.
MAY FoRT ADAms, .&DMnIsTRATRIX OP JOHN HAGAN, JUN.,
JoHN S. PRESTON AND CAROLNE M.
DEORASED, APPELLANT, 0).
PRESTON HIS WIPE.

This court has never reviewed the judgment of an inferior court of a State, where
there was an appeal to the Supreme Court of the State, upon a subject within
the jurisdiction of such court, ul On ithe allegation that its proceedings were
irregular or illegal, and contrary to the law of the State.
The present is such a case.
The Parish Court of New Orleans had exclusive jurisdiction over property ceded
by insolvents, and the courts of the United States have no jurisdiction over
such insolvencies.
An allegation of fraud in a bill fflhd to review such proceedings in insolvency.
which was afterwards abandoned, is not sufficient to give to the Circuit Court
jurisdiction to review the proceedings of the State court.
Moreover, the complainant has no equitable claim to relief, his assignors having
no mortgage lien on the property, when the judgments were assigned to the
.iomplainant.

