SUPREME COURT. -

The evidence is against the disebarge of the mortgage. After the amount claimed under the mortgage, there is still a
balance due the plaintiffs on general account.
Upon the whole, the decree of thA Supreme Court of the
Territory is affirmed; and the cause is remitted to the Snpreme Court of the State of Minnesota, to be carried into
effect as the law authorizes.

"CHARLESEMERSON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. HORATIO

N.

SLATER.

'In the case- of Slater v. Emerson, 19 Howard, 224, this ourt held that where
there was a-contract to finish a railroad by a given day, the parties to which
were the contractor with the railroad company of the one part, and a stockholder in the company of the other part, time was of the essence of the contract; and there could be no recovery on the written agreement without showing performance within the time limited 5 but added, that a subsequent performance and acceptance by the defendant would authorize Arecovery in a qan-

turn vmit.
This court now holds that the promise of the stockholder contained in the written agreement was an original undertaking, on a good and valid consideration
moving between the parties to the instrument, and not a special promise for
the debt, default, or misdoings, of another. Consequently, it is not within the
operation of the statute of frauds.
The cases upon this point examined.
Being an original contract, parol evidence was admissible to show that the
parties had, subsequently to the date of the contract, and before a breach of
it, made a new oral agreement, on a new and valuabla consideration, enlarging the time of performance, and varying its terms. .

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts.
It was the same case which was before this court at a previous term, and is reported in 19 Howard, 224.
. The substance of that case and the new view of the present
one are fully stated in the opinion of the court, to which the
reader is referred.
It was argued by ikr. Hutchins and Mr/'. (ushing for the
plhintiff in error, and Mr. Bates for the defendant.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859,

29

nwo v. Slaer.

The points of the argument of the counsel for the plaintiff
in error, which are material to be stated in the prdsent report,
were the following:
I. At common law, a contract- reduced to writing may, by
parol agreement of the parties subsequontly made, be varied
waived, or discharged, whether the same is a simple contract,*
:r under seal.
Browne on Statute of Frauds, see. 409, (b) sec. 423.
1 Greenl. on Evidence, secs. 302, 304.
Snow v. Inhabitants of Ware, 13 Met., 42.
Marshall v. Baker, 1 Appleton, 402.
Ballard v. Walker, 3 Johns. Cases, 60.
Goss v. Lord Nugent, 5 Barn. and Adol., 65.
1 Phillips Ev., (Cowen and Hill's Ed.,) p. 563, w. 987.
Sherwin et al. v. Rut. and Bur. R. R., 24 Vt., 847.
Vicary v. Moore, 2 Watts, 451.
Besker et al. v. Troy and Rut. R. R., 27 Vt., 766.
Neil v. Chever, 1 Bailey, (S. C.,) 537.
Munroe v. Perkins, 9 Pick., 298.
White v. Parkin, 12 East., 578.
Fleming v. Gilbert, 3 Johns. Rep., 528.
Keating v. Price, 1 Johns. Cases, 22.
.Low v. Treadwell, 3 Fairf., 441.
II. And there is no distinction in this respect between a
contract in writing at common law, and a contract required
to be in writing by the statute of frauds.
Browne on Statute of Frauds, sec. 428.
1 Greenl. on Ev., secs. 302, 304.
Cummings v. Arnold, 3 Met. 486.
Stearns v. Hall, 9 Cushing, 31.
Caff v. Penn, 1 M. and S., 26.
Goss v. Lord Nugent, 5 Barn. and Adol., 58.
VI. There is a fact in proof in this case, which did not
appear in the casewhen before this court before-and that is,
that when Slater made the agreement upon which suit is
broaght, securities were placed in his hands by the principal
debtoi*to indemnify him for his liability. His promise is not,
therefore, within the statute of frauds

SUPREME COURT.
Emeraom v. Slater.

VII. A parol promise to pay the debt of another, in consideration of property placed by the debtor in the promissor's
hands, is not within the statute of frauds. It is an original
promise, and binding upon the promissor; and in this respect
t is immaterial whether the liability of the original debtor
continues or is discharged.
1 Browne on Statute of Frauds, sec. 187, p. 184.
Wait, appellant, v. Wait, 28 Vt., (2 Wash.,) 850.
Farley v. Cleveland, 4 Cowen, 482.
1 Smith's Leading Cases, 329.
Hindman v. Langford, 3 Strobhart's Rep., 207.
Cross v. Richardson, 30 Vt., 641.
Fiek v. Thomas, 5 Gray, 45.
Rand v. Mather, 11 Cushing: 1.
Olmstead v. Greenly, 18 Johns., 12.
Hilton v. Dinsmore, 21 Maine, (8 Shep.,) 410.
Cameron v. Clark, 11 Ala., 259.
Loring v. Lee, Spen'er, (N. J.,) 337.
Goddard v. Mochbee, 5 Cranch-.C. C., 666.
Stanley v. Hendricks, 13 Iredell, (N. C.,) 86.
Lee v. Fontaine, 10 Ala., 755.
McKenzie v. Jackson, 4 Ala., 230.
Lippencott v. Ashfield, 4 Sandford, 611.
Westfall v. Parsons, 16 Barb., 645.
Todd v. Tobey, 29 Maine, 219.
VIII. The defendant having waived by parol the perf6rmance of the work at the day, thereby himself prevented per.
formance, and he cannot avail himself of the non-performance
Browne Stat. of Frauds, sees. 423, 424, 425, 436, p. 486.
3 Johnson N. Y., 531.,
2 Selden N. Y., 203.
IX. When this case was before this court before, no question was made nor discussion bad, whether the promise of the
defendaut was within the statute of frauds; the question was,
siLply, whether time was of the essence of the contract;, and
t s court decided that it was.
Emerson v. Slater, 19 Howard, 224.
9. The evidence offered by the plaintiff in error, under the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

31

Emerson v. Szer.

common counts, that the. defendant in error had securities in
his hands to indemnify him for his proraise, took the case
from the statute of frauds. It made him an original promissof
for the work done after November 14, 1854, (the date of the
contract,) and he is therefore liable upon the common counts
upon a quantum meruit-as an original debtor.
The counsel for the defendant in error contended that the
decision of this court in the previous case involved the follow
ing propositions:
1. That the original contract between Emerson and the
corporation, to build the bridges for the corporation, remained
in full force, unaffected by the contract between 'Emerson and
Slater.
2. That, by aforce of his contract, Slater stood in the relation
of a surety for the corporation, for the amount for which be
had agreed to become liable.

--

3. That the time of performance (December 1) was of thi
essence of Slater's contract, and he was not liable thereon, as
Emerson had failed to perform within the time fixed.
If. therefore, the contract of November 14, 1864, was a
special promise for the debt, default, or misdoings, of another,
it was within the statute of frauds, and the alleged waiver,
extension, and substitution, must be in writing, and could not
be proved by parol.
This court had decided that performance by the 1st day of
December was "an essentialpart of this contract." And, manifestly, a contract cannot be varied in one of its essential parts.
without making a new contract.
And when such new contract has been made, it must be de
clared on. A declaration on the old contract cannot be sustained by showing that, though the old contract has not been
performed in one of its essential parts, which is a condition
precedent to recovery, yet that a new bargain had been maae,
by which that essential part had been stricken out of the contract, and something different substituted in its place.
And, accordingly, this plaintiff declares on such new contract in his last count. And, inasmuch as the contract declared
9n is ihat of a-surety, it must be in writing, and wholly in wri.

32

SUPREME COURT.
Emerson v. Sla&r.

ting. The statute of frauds is not complied with by produciug
a contract which is partly in writing, while one of its essential
parts rests in parol.
(The counsel then examined a number of English and American cases, to show that this change in the contract fell within
the statute of frauds.)
The plaintifi at the trial in the Circuit Court, introduced
three deeds of land, from the railroad corporation to the defendant, dated three days after the defendant entered into the
contract of November 14, and said to have been made to indemnify the defendant from his liability under the said contract.
But we are not aware of any case or dictum showing that
b~cause a surety, after he has become bound as such, takes security from his principal to indemnify himself against loss by his
contract of suretyship, he there.by ceases to be a surety and
becomes a principal debtor. There are decisions, no doubt
well founded, that an absolute parol promise to pay the debt
of another, in consideration of property put into the promis.
sor's hands to enable him to pay the debt, makes the debt his
own, and he is not a surety, within the statute of frauds.
But there is no evidence in this record to prove such a case.
Slater's promise was not made in consideration of this property. There is no evidence of any agreement, even, to convey
it to him at the time he entered into his contract. And it was
not actually conveyed to him till three days afterwards. And
it is not stated that when it was conveyed to him, it was to enable him to pay the debt, or that it was made his property in
consideration of his promise to pay the debt. The contrary is
stated. It was put into his hands "to indemniy the defendant
from his liability in said contract, dated November 14, 1854,
with the defendant." Until the defendant should be in some
way indemnified, the lanfd, in equity, belonged to the corpora-

tion. And as Slater's promise depended on the performance
by Emerson before December 1st, if he should not so perform,
Slater would not be-indemnified, and would have no claim on
the land.
It is submitted, no authority exists for the position, tlat u

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Emm'son v. Slater.

conditional undertaking to pay the debt of another is taken out of
the statute of frauds, because security is given by the principal
to indemnify the surety, thrde days after the conditional contract of suretyship is made.
However true it is that assumpsit for a quantum valebant or
quantum meruit will lie, where the terms of a special contract
have not all been compliqd with, to recover the value of the
labor and materials held and. enjoyed by the defendant, yet
nothing is better settled, than that no action can be maintained on the contract itself, without alleging, with exactness, performance in entire accordance with the terms of the contract,
including that in relation to time of performance, and proving
the allegation.
This proposition has been affirmed in nearly every State.
(The counsel then referred to decisions in this court, and the
courts of almost every State in the Union.)
Emerson cannot recover, therefore, unless it be on the com
mon counts; and not then, unless it be on the quantum merui.
and valebant. Can he recover on these?
The agreement of November 14 shows that the money an
notes given by Slater were to apply to the then indebtedness
of the company to Emerson, and were not to apply to any
work to be done heretofore-and this was one of the points
argued at the former trial, contending that Slater was only a
surety. That Emerson understood that he was doing the
work for the company is evident from the fact that he charged
the company with it, presented to them -his bills, settled with
its committee, and never presented any charges for work to
Slater.
If, as this court has heretofore decided, Slater was a surety
for the price of work done for the corporation, there can be no
recoveryl had against him on counts for work, labor, and materials, fhrnished to himself. None were furnished to himself.
The law will not imply a promise to pay. another's debt. It
requires an express promise in writing.
The evidence given on the trial has no tendency to show
any promise by Slater, save by the written contract.
He knew Enmeron was going on with bis work, both before
3
Voh. xxII.

SUPREME COURT.
EerAno

v. Sker.

and after December 1st. That Emerson was bound by hLa
contract with the corporation to do so. And every act and
word of Slater, and every omission to speak or act, is entirely
consistent with the assumption, that if Emerson should finish
the work before December let, he was to look to him for the
totes; if he should not finish before December 1st, he was to
look to the corporation for whom and under a contract with
whom he was doing the work.
There is no case of recovering on a quantum meruit or quantum valebant, except for some work or materials done or furnished, and that too for the defendant.
But Emerson furnished no work or materials for Slater.
They were all for the railroad company. They were for the
benefit of and. owned by the company, and Emerson was to
be paid for them by the company. The contract between
Emerson and Slater guards especially against theii release.
The company is the only party entitled to offset for any defect in the work, as they are the owners of the work, and as
Slater made no stipulations as to its character, except that it
be ready for laying the rails for one track. Besides, the completing the bridges for one .track was but part of the work
Emerson was doing under his contract. He went on and
completed his contract with the company, and the whole work
was done exactly as it would have been done if Slater's con.
tract had never been made.
Suppose Emerson had died, become insolvent, or in some
other way had become absolutely incapacitatied from completing the work agreed on by December 1st, would Slater have
been liable on a quantum meruit?
How long a time after December 1st would have been allowed to executors of Emerson to complete the work so as to
bind Slater?
If Emerson and the railroad company had cancelled their
contract, or had the company refused to allow Emerson to
continue his work, would Slater have been liable on a quauturn meruit?
Mosely v. Hunter, 9 Ired., 119.
If there was anything done distictly for Slater, as it does

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

85

Emervon v. S-Wer.

not appear what it was by the agreement, Emerson is bound
to show what it was, in ordc.r to enable the jury to determine
what was the amount of thE quantum meruit.
He did nothing for Slater. His work was for the corporation, and every stockholder and creditor (of which Emerson
is one) is liable if Slater is.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
'This case comes before the court upon a writ of error to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts. It was an action of assumpsit, brought by the plaintiff in error against the present defendant, upon a written
agreement, bearing drte on the fourteenth day of November, 1854.
By the terms of the instrument, the plaintiff covenanted and
agreed with the defendant, in consideration of the agreements
of the latter therein contained, and of one dollar to him paid,
that he, the plaintiff, would complete all the bridge work to
be done by him for the Boston and New York Central Rail.
road Company, ready for laying down the rails for one track,
by the first day of December next after the date of the contract. In consideration whereof, the defendant agreed that he
would pay the plaintiff, withih two days from the .ate of the
agreement, the sum of forty-four hundred dollars in cash; and
also give to the plaintiff, on the completion of the bridges,
and when the rails for one track were laid from Dedham to
the foot of Summer street, in Boston, his, the defendant's, five.
notes, for two thousand dollars each, dated when given, as
provided, and made payable to the plaintiff or order, in six
months from their date. Another stipulation of the agreement was, that the notes, when paid, were to be applied- towards the indebtednesa of the railroad company to the piaintii
and that the agreement was in no way to affect any contract
of the plaintiff with the railroad, or any action then pending
between them.
When the declaration was filed, it contained three special
counts, drawn upon the writte.n agreement, together with thecommon counts, as in actions of indebitatws assumpsit..

SUPREME COUJRT.
Enmeyson v. Ser.

Performance on the part of the plaintiff, and neglect and
refusal on the part of the defendant to give the five notes
specified in the agreement, after seasonable demand, constitute
the cause of action set forth in the several special counts.
They differ in nothing material to be noticed in this investigation, except that, in the first count, performance on the part
of the plaintiff is alleged, according to the contract, on the
first day of December, 1854, while in the second- and third
counts it is alleged at a period twenty days later.
Au additional special count was afterwards filed by consent,
which, in one respect, varies essentially from the other counts.
After setting out the substance of the contract, it alleges that
the defendant waived performance at the day stipulated iu thu
agreement, and extended the time to the twentieth day of the
same December, and that the plaintiff performed and completed the work within the extended time. Demand of the
notes prior to the commencemp-nt of the suit, substantially as
alleged, was admitted at the trial, as were also the execution
of the agreement and the payment by the defendant ofthe
forty-four hundred dollars.
As appears by ti-e transcript, the cause has been twice tried
upon the same pleadings. At the fist trial, the verdict was
for the plaintiff; but the defendant excepted to the rulings
and instructions of the Circuit Court, and, after judgment, removed the cause.into this court by writ of error.
Among the questions presented on the writ of error, the
principal one was whether, by the true construction of the
written agreement, time was of the essence of the contract.
That question was directly presented by the fourth exception;
and *this court held, that the refusal of the circuit judge to
instruct the jury, as prayed by the defendant, that the plaintift
could not recover on the special counts without showing that
the work was completed by the day stipulated in the contract,
was error., Accordingly, the judgment was reversed, and the
cause remanded, with directions to issue a new venire.
in the opinion delivered oL the occasion, thig court said, in
effect, tl.at in cases where time is of the essence of the contract, there can be no recovery on the written agreement, with.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

.37

Em.son v. Sl~atr.

out showing performance within the time limited; but added,
that a subsequent performance and 'acceptance by the defendant will authorize a recovery in a quantum eruit. Slater v.
Emerson, 19 How., 239.
Failing to show performance at the day named in the agreement, the plaintiff, at the last trial, offered to prove by parol
to the effect that, after the date of the agreement, and before
as well as after the day specified for the completion of the
work, the defendant, by his conduct, acts, and declarations,
waived and dispensed with performance at the day named in
the Written agreement, and agreed to substitute therefor performance on the twentieth day of the same December, and to
deem. performance on the day last named as equivalent to performance on the day specified in the written agreement, and
that the work was fully performed within the extended time.
Objection was made by the defendant to this testimony,
upon the ground, that the written agreement declared on was
a special promise for the debt, default, or misdoings of another; and that the alleged waiver, substitution, and extension, not being in writing, were within the statute of frauds;
and the court sustained the objection, and excluded -the testimony. To which ruling of the court.the plaintiff excepted.
He then proposed to proceed upon the common counts, and
-offered evidence accordingly. After reading the agreement
set up in the special counts, he introduced three deeds, each
dated November 17, 1854, purporting to convey certain parcels
of real estat therein described. They were each given by the
railroad company to the defendant, to indemnify him for the
liability he assumed in the before-mentioned written agreement with the plaintifi. Estimating the value of the real
estate so conveyed by the considerations expressed. in the
%respective deeds, it amounted in the aggregate to the sum of
thirteen thousand five hundred dollars.
He also introduced a memorandum agreement between the
defendanf and the railroad company, whereby the former
leased to the latter ten hundred and fifty tons of railroad iron,
to be laid down by the company and used on their railroad.
By the terms of the last-named agreement, the railroad irorn

SUPREME COURT.
Emewmon v. Siser.

was estimated at the value of sixty-eight thousand four hundred dollars; and the company agreed to pay the defendant,
for the use of the iron, five thousand dollars per month, the
first payment to be made on the first day of March then next,
and so upon the first day of each-succeeding month, until the
whole sum was paid, with interest on the same from a given
day-the defendant agreeing, if there was no default-of the
payments, when the whole was paid, to sell and deliver the iron
to the company for the estimated value, including the interest.
To secure these payments, together with the interest., the
railroad company, by the same instrument, assigned and set
over to the defendant the proceeds of the railroad, to an
amount- equal to the estimated value of the iron, with the interest, and authorize.d and required the superintendent of the
road to retain in his own hands, out of the proceeds, a sum
sufficient to pay the amount to the defendant, in the mannei
and at the times specified in the agreement.
Emerson's contract with the railroad company was also htroduced, and makes a part of the record. It bears date on
the seventeenth day of December, 1853, and provides, on the
one part, that the plaintiff shall bnild and complete, sufficient
for the passage of an engine over the same by the first day oi
May then next, all the bridging; as then laid out and determined'upon by the engineer, from the wharf, near the fo6t o1
Summer street, in Boston, to Dorchester shore, and to complete the same as soon thereafter as might be reasonably
practicable. On the other part, the agreement prescribes the
compensation to be paid by the railroad company to the plaintiiH; for building and completing the respective works therein
designated and described, stipulating that eighty-five per cent.
upon the estimated value of the materials furnished, and
seventy-five per cent. upon the estimated value of the labor
performed, should be paid monthly, as the work was done,
and that the balance should be paid by the company upon
the completion and acceptance of the whole work.
Parties to the suit are by law competent witnesses in the
courts of Massachusetts; and under that law the plaintiff was
-xamined in this case.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Einerson v. Slater.

He also called and examined five other witnesses. From
this parol testimony, it appe'ars that securities were put into
the hands of the defendant, deemed by him and the company
adequate, at the time, to indemnify him against his contract
with the plaintiff. Those securities, two of the w~tnesscs say,
consisted of real estate, and the bonds of the company for
seventeen thousand dollars, secured by a mortgage upon the
road. In respect to the real estate, it is to be observed that
the deeds of conveyance bear date three days after th6-date of
the contract; but the presumption from the circumstances is
a reasonable one, that they were given in pursuance of the
arrangement made at the time the contract was executed. It
also appeared that the company failed in July, 1854, and thai
it was actually insolvent at the date of these transactions.
Prior to the date of the agreement of the 14th of November,
1854, the plaintiff had stopped work under his contract wVith
the company, and refused to cbntinue it. As soon as the
contract with the defendant was made, he resumed the -work
on the bridges, and finished them about the middle of December, 1854; but the rails were not all laid by the company
until the twenty-first day of the same month.
At the date of the contract between these parties, the defendant was a large stockholder in the corporation, and holder
of the bonds of the company, which were secured by a mort
.gage of the road to trustees. During the progress of the
work under the contract between these parties, and before
the day therein named for the completion of the work, the
officers of the company, or some of them, repeatedly stated
to the plaintiff, in the presence of the defendant, and without
objection on his part, that all the company wanted was, that
the plaintiff should keep out of the way of the track-layers.
Three of the directors, including the defendant, on the
twenty-fourth day of November, 1854, called on the plaintiff
while he was at work on one of the bridges, and inquired of
him if he could complete it by the fourth day of the then
next month, stating to him the reason why it was desirable
that he should do so-and by working nights and Sundays he
completed it, according to their request.

SUIPREME COURT.
Eweryo

v. Slaler.

Several witnesses state-and among tne number the one
who laid the rails for the company-that the track-layers were
not delayed by the plaintiff; and the plaintiff testified that
the defendant never objected because the bridges were not
completed by the day specified in the written agreement. On
being recalled, he further testified that he paid, for work done
and materials furnished after that day, the sum of eleven
thousand one hundred and fifty-seven dollars and eighty-four
cents, and that he had not received a dollar for it from hiny
source.
Thereupon the presiding justice ruled and instructed the
jury.that, upon this testimony, the plaintiff was not entitled
to recover on the common counts, and directed the jury to
return their verdict for the defendant: Accordingly, the jury
found that the defendant never promised; and the plaintiff
excepted to the rulings and instructions of the court.
Several questions were diicussed at the bar, which, in the
view we have taken of the case, it will not be necessary to
decide.
'Both of the exceptions to the rulings and instructions of the
co.urt necessarily involve the construction of the contract between these parties; but the question pres6nted is widely
different from the one considered and decided by this court
on the former record. On.that occasion, the single question
of any importance was, whether, by the true construction of
the contract, it was agreed and understood between the parties
to the instrument that the completion of the work at the time
therein prescribed was a condition on which the obligation of
th.. defendant to give the notes was to depend.
Contrary to the ruling of the circuit judge, this court held
that the covenants of the respective parties were dependent,
that time was of the essence of the contract, and remanded
the cause for a new trial.
That rule of construction, beyond doubt, is the law of the
contract, and no attempt has been made to evade or question
it on either side in this controversy. But the question now
presented is of a very different character.
It is insisted by the plaintiff that the promise of the defend-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

41

Emerson v. Slat"r.

ant was an original undertaking, on a good and valid considerat:on, moving between the parties to the instrument. On
the part of the defendant, it is insisted that his undertaking
was a special promise *for the debt, default, or misdoings, of
another, and so within the statute of frauds.
If the theory of the plaintiff be correct, then it would seem
to follow that the rulings and instructions of the Circuit-Court
were erroneous. Verbal agreements between the parties to
a written -contract, made before or at the time of the execution of the contract, are in general inadmissible to vary its
terms, or to affect its construction. All such verbal agreements are considered as merged in the written contract. But
oral agreements subsequently made, on a new and valuable
consideration, and before the breach of the contract, in cases
falling within the general rules of thepcommon law, and not
within the statute of frauds, stand upon a different footing.
Such subsequent oral agreements, not falling within the exception mentioned, may have the effect to enlarge the time
of performance specified in the contract, or may vary any
other of its terms, or may waive and discharge it altogether.
On this point, the authorities are numerous and decisive, of
which the following are examples: Goss v. Nugent, 5 Barn.
and Ad., 65; Nelson v. Boynton, 3 Met., 402. Speaking of
the exceptions to the general rule, that parol evidence is not
admissible to contradict or vary the terms of a written instrument, Mr. Greenleaf says: "Neither is the rule infringed by
the admission of oral evidence to prove a new and distinct
agreement upon a ziew consideration, whether it be a substitute
for the old one, or in addition to and beyond it; and if subsequent, and involving the same subject matter, it is immaterial whether the new agreement be entirely oral, or whether
it refers to and partially or totally adopts the provisions of
the former contract in writing, provided the old agreement
be rescinded and abandoned." 1 Green. Ev., 303. But the
rule, so far as it is applicable to this case, is better stated by
Lord Denman, in Goss v. Nugent, 5 Barn. and Ad., 665,
wherein he says: "After the agreement has been reduced into
writing, it is competent to the parties, in cases fhlling within

SUPREME COURT.
Emerson v. Slater.

the general rules of the common law, at any time before the
breach of it by a new contratt, not in writing, either altogether
to waive, dissolve, or annul, the former agreement, or in any
manner to add to or subtract from or vary or qualify the terms
of it, and thus to make a new contract." That rule was afterwards qualified by the same learned judge in a particular not
essential to the present inquiry; and with that qualification
it appears to be the rule constantly applied by the English
courts, in cases not within the statute of frauds, to the present
time. Harvey v. Grabham, 5 Ad. and El., 61; 1 Phil. Ev.,
(Cow. & Hill's ed.,) p. 563, n. 987; Munroe v. Perkins, 9 Pick.,
298; Snow v. Inhabitants of Ware, 13 Met., 42; Vicary v.
Moore, 2 Watts, 451; Cummings v. Arhold, 3 Met., 489;
Fleming a.Gilbert, 3 Johns. R., 528.
On the other hand, assuming the theory of the defendant tc
be correct, that,'by the true construction of the contract, his
undertaking w.is a special promise for the debt, default, or
misdoings, of' the railroad company, then perhaps the better
opinion is, according to the weight of authority, that a written
contract within the statute of frauds cannot be varied by any
subsequent agreement of the parties, unless such new agree.
ment is also in writing. MIarshall v. Lynn, 6 Mee. and Wels.,
109; Goss v. Nugent, 5 Barn. and Ad., 58; Harvey v. Grabham, 5 Ad. and El., 61; Stowell v. Robinson, 3 Bing. N. C.,
927; Stead v. Dowber, 10 Ad. and El., 57; Emmet v. Dewhurst, 8 "Eng.L.-and Eq., 88; Hasbrouk v. Tappan, 15 Johnson's R., 200; Blood v. Goodrich, 9 Wen., 68; Stevens v.
Cooper, 1 Johnson's Ch. R., 429; Clark v. Russel, 3 Dall., 415.
Decided cases, however, are referred to, from the Massachusetts reports, which evidently .wear a different aspect, and it is
contended by the counsel- for the plaintiff that the principle
adopted in those cases constitutes the rule of decision in this
case; but it is unnecessary to determine that point at the
present time, as we are of the opinion that the promise of the
defendant contained in the written agreement was an original
undertaking, on a good and valid consideration moving between the parties to the instrument. Nelson v. Boynton, 8
Met., 3P9i; Stearns v. Hall, 9 Cush., 81.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

43

Enerason v. Sl ar.

Cases in which the guaranty or promise is collateral to the
principal contract, but is made at the same time, and becomes
an essential ground of the credit given to the principal debtor,
are, in general, within the statute of frauds. Other cases
arise which also fall within the statute, where the collateral
agreement is subsequent tQ the execution of the debt, and
was not the inducement to it, on the ground that the subsisting liability was the foundation of the promise on the part of
the defendant, without any other direct and separate consideration moving between the parties. But whenever the main
purpose and object of the promissor is -not to answer fQr
- another, but to subserve some peouniary or business purpose
of his own, involving either a benefit to himself, or damage.
to the other contracting party, his promise is not within the
statute, although it may be in form a promise to pay the debt
of another, and although the performance'of it may incidentally have the effect of extinguishing that liability. Nelson v.
Boynton, 8 Met., 400; Leonard v. Vredenburg, 8 Johns. R.,
89; Farley r. Cleveland, 4 Cow., 432; Alger v. Scoville, I
Gray, 391; Williams v. Leper, 3 Bur., 1886; Castling v.
Aubert, 2 East., 325; 2 Parsons on Con., 806. Nothing is
better settled than the rule, that if there is a benefit to the
defendant, and a loss to the plaintiff, consequential upon and
directly resulting from the defendant's promise in behalf of
* the plaintifl there is a sufficient consideration moving from
the plaintiff to enable the latter to maintain an action upon
the promise to recover compensation. 2 Addison on Con.,
1002, and eases cited. Other authorities state the proposition
much stronger, authorizing the conclusion that benefit to the
party by whom the promise is made, or to a third person at
his instance, or damage sustained at the instance of the party
promising, by the party.in whose favor the promise is made,
is sufficient to constitute a good and valid consideration .on
which to maintain an action. Violet v.Patton, 5Cr., p. 150;
Chitt.
on Con., p. 28; Townsley v. Sumrall, 2 Pet., p.. 182.
Apply
these principles to the terms of the written agreement, in view of the attending circumstances and the subject
matter, and it is quite clear that the promis 'of the lefeudant

SUPREME COURT.
Eimzrscm V'.skdwc.

was an original undertaking on a good and valid consideration moving from the plaintiff at the time the instrument
was executed. On its face it purports to be a contract between the parties, for their own benefit; one agreeing to do
certain work, and furnish certain materials, and the other
agreeing'to pay therefor a stipulated compensation. Their
promises are mutual, and in one respect dependent. In consideration that the plaintiff engaged to do the work and furnish
the materials by a given day, the defendant, on -his part,
agreed, among other things, when the work was completed,
to give the plaintiff the five notes therein' deRcribed. Reference was made to the contract of the plaintiff with the railroad
company in the first instance, as descriptive of the work to be
done, and-of the materials to be furnished; and in the second
instance, doubtless for the reason that, as a part of the transaction, the conpay had placed, or agreed to place, securities
in the hands of the defendant., to indemnify him for the liability he thereby assumed to the plaintiff. Part of those securities were delivered over to the defendant at the time, and
the residue as soon thereafter as the conveyances could conveniently be made. But when we consider the attending
circumstances, the presumption is much stronger that the
arrangement was one mainly, if not entirely, for the individual
benefit of the defendant.
Prior to that date, the railroad, company had failed, and was
utterly insolvent, owning nothing, it seems, except the recurities transferred to the defendant for his indemnity in this
transaction, and the franchise of the road. Unlike-what was
exhibited in the former record, it now appears that the defendait had large interests of his.own, separate from his relation
to the company as a :tockholder, which were to be promoted
by the arrangement. He had leased to the company railroad
iron for the use of the road, amounting in v;lue to the sum of
sixty-eight thousand dollars, and, as a security for payment,
held an assignment of the proceeds of the road to that amount,
with interest, which was to be paid in monthly instalments of
five thousand. Now,. unless the bridges were completed and
the. road put in a condition for use, there would be no proceeds;

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Emeraon v. Sla~er.

and as he had already taken into his possession all the available means of the company to secure. himself for this new
liability, should the road not be completed, the company could
not pay for the iroir.
In this view of the subject, it is manifest that the arrange.
ment was one mainly to promote the individual interest of
the defendalit. Damage also resulted to the plaintiff, as is
obvious from the whole transaction. Under his contract with
the company, they had stipulated to pay him monthly eightyfive per cent. upon the estimated value of the materials furnislied, and seventy-five per cent. upon the estimated value of
the labor performed as the work was done. Failing to receive
those monthly payments from the company, the plaintiff, as
hb had a right to do, stopped the works, and refused to proceed, in consequence of the failure of the company to make the
monthly payments. To remedy this difficulty, and insure the
completion of *the bridges so as to render the road available
for use, this arrangement was made by the defendant. It was
not an arrangement to pay a.subsisting indebtedness, but only
for work to be done and materials to be furnished; monthly
payments were discontinued,; and the plaintiff.was induced,
with hn advance of forty-four hundred dollars, to resume and.
complete the work at his own expense. Without detailing
more of the evidence, as exhibited in the statement of the case,
it will be sufficient to say.that, in view of all the attending circumstances, we think it i6 clear that the promise of the defendant was an original undertaking, upon a good and valid consideration moving between the parties to the written agreement,
For these reasons,-we think the plaintiff had a right to proceed upon the common counts, and that it was error in thq
presiding justice to direct a verdict for the deiendant. It is
also contended by the plaintiff that the effect of the indemnity
given by the railroad company to the defendant was to take
the contract out of the statute of fr: ads; but we do not find it
necessary to determine that question at the present time.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed
with costs, and the cause remanded with directions to issue 3
new venire.

