UPREM3 COUJRT.
MWte Mato v. Gankf.

Tn

UNIED STATEs, APEILiANs, v. RP.ALL GAcm

Where there was an an order from the Governor allowing a claimant to ceareb
-for land in California, and the claimant subsequently petitioned the Gcvernor
for a grant, who referred the petition to the alcalde by a inarginal order, and

the alcalde reported that the land did not belong to any private individual,
this does not amount to a vested interest in the land, binding on the Government.
Tuis was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The ase is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Stanton and M7r. Black (Attorney
General) for the United States, and by .Mr..Benham for the
appellee.
The Attorney General, after stating the case, said that the
board of land commissioners rejected the claim unanimously.
Judge Hoffman delivered an opinion concurring with the
board, but Judge McAllister decided in favor of the claimant,
expressing "considerable doubt" of its legal justice. The
United States have appealed. We ask the court to reverse
the decree of confirmation, and reject the claim, upon the
ground that there is absolutely no title whatever, nor anything
that even by courtesy could be called a show of title. A
Governor bf the Department in 1844 gave the claimant a passport, so that he might go out and hunt for nine leagues of
land, and, if he should happen to find any, gives him authority
to take possession of it until a title could be made out. The
claimant now says that he did happen to find exactfy nine
leagues of land, but he did not report to the Governor who
gave him the roving commission under which he was travelling when he made the discovery. He waited nearly two
years, until another Governor came into office,'and then he
did not proceed according to law by presenting a petition,
and doing what the regulations of 1828 require. 1or did he
ask for any definite action. The order of the Governor was
as vague as the petition. It was simply an order that the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
United State8 v. Gardia.
alcalde .ofSan Rafael might report. The alcalde made report,
and in that report falsely stated that the land had been previously granted to the claimant by Micheltorena, and added,
somewhat -paradoxically, that it did not belong to any private
individual, on account of its distance from the frontier. Slight
evidence of occupancy is added to this, and there rests the
case.
Not a single provision contained in the act of 1824, or in
the regulations of 1828, has been complied with or followed
in all this business. It bears no sort of resemblance to the
proceeding which those laws require to be instituted and
carried on before an individual can be vested with a title to a
portion of the public domain. It was wholly unlike the
measures and acts and records which were usual in such cases.
This is not a title derived from Mexico according to the laws
or according to the customs of that Government. It is not a
grant at all. It does not pretend to be a grant. It is folly to
call Micheltorena's passport a grant of land; and Pico signed
nothing but an order upon the alcalde to report upon the
matter, The claim under such a title as this is so preposterous that it is impossible to argue against it with any sort of
seriousness. It never was regarded as a title by the Mexican.
Gpvernment. There was no expediente on file. The papers
are all produced from the private custody of the claimant himself. There is no trace of the proceeding to be found any'where upon record.,- The genuineness of the papers is extremely doubtful. The proof would be regarded as defective.
if the witnesses were men of good character; but the testi.
mony comes from William A. Richardson and Manuel Castro,
both of whom have been made utterly infamous by being
frequently detected in the commission of wilful and corrupt
perjuries.
If anything were wanting to expose this claim to further
contempt, it might be found in Micheltorena's proclamation
of December 16, 1814, wherein he states exactly how he was
employed on the 15th of November, the day upon which his
passport to Garcia is dated. It makes it, to say the least,
extremely improbable that he could on that day have done

276

SIPREME COURT.
7nied Sftatwes v. Garcia,

what he describes, and been at the same time in Monterey
issuing such papers as this to Garcia, and transacting business
in the way that Richardson describes.
The seal affixed to Micheltorena's letter is a manifest forgery.
Mr. .Benham replied for the appellee:
In this case, a brief for the appellee was filed two years ago,
addressed to the views of the law agents of the Government
as then known. Novel and startling views haviug since been
offered by Mr. Attorney General in his brief in this case, as
in others, it is deemed necessary to reply to them.
In doing so, we shall quote Mr. Attorney General's remarks
in the argument accompanying his brief seriatim, subjoining
to each quotation such comments as may seem appropriate.
"We ask the court to reverse the decree of confirmation,
and reject the claim, upon the ground that there is absolutely
no title whatever, nor anything that, even by courtesy, could
be called a show of title. A Governor of the Department, in
1844, gave the claimant a passport, so that he might go out
and hunt for nine leagues of land, and, if he should happen t3
find any, gives him authority to take twssesion of it until a
title could be made out."
We maintain there is title, legal perhaps, certainly equitable. We care not to debate as to its dignity, since, for all
purposes connected with this quasi litigation with the Government, an equitable title is as good as a legal title. We think
a promise of title is imported at least in the authority to select,
occupy with property, (cattle,) and hold possession of a tract,
while the procedure (to obtain a dilulo) was being had on the
presentation of the requisite diseno; and that this promise,
performance of the conditions of the decree and of the law
being shown, entitles the' claimant to a confirmation. He has
held -this laud for sixteen years-save some parts from which
he has been forcibly ejected.
"The claimant now says that he did happen to find exactly
nine leagues of land, but he did not report to the Governoi
who gave him the roving commission under which he wds
"cavellinj when he made the discovery. He waited neaily

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

27T

Unied States v. Garcia.

two years, until another Governor came into office, and then
he did not proceed according to law by presenting a petition,
and doing what the regulations of 1828 require.'
The delay should not provoke remark. There was no
hurry. He was occupying the land during the two years,
which was all the Government wanted. HEe had no reason to
anticipate the change of flags.
He did present a petition in substantial c6nformity with
the regulations, and he did ask for definite action. If his petition to Pico was deficient, it is to be presumed that the one
addressed to Micheltorena was satisfactory, since that officer
acted favorably upon it. His request for appropriate action
was sufficient. He informed Pico that Micheltorena had
authorized his slection, &c., and required the diseno; that
he had selected, &c.; offered the diseno, and prayed for such
action as should be most proper.
"Nor did he ask for any definite action. The order of the
Governor was as vague as the petition. It was simply an
order that the alcalde of San Rafael might report. The
alcalde made report, and in that report falsely stated that
the ]and had been previously granted to the claimant by
Micheltorena, and added, somewhat paradoxically, that it did
not belong to any private individual, on account of its distance
from the frontier."
The order was relative, and so-amply sufficient. It required a.pertinent report. Such a one was given. That report certified that Garcia had been for some time in occupation of the land; the transaction which he thought was a
grant on Micheltorena's part; that the land was vacant; and
assigned as his reason for saying so, that it lay in a section of
country where he might well know, from its remoteness,
there was no grant, except Richardson's, (which was Garcia's
starting point,) and those of Juarez and Vallejo.
"Slight evidence of occ'ipancy is added to this, and there
rests the case."
The occupancy was judicially ascertained by Pacheco in his
report to Pico. Richardson, and Rosa, and Vallejo, prove its
character.

SUPRIEMI,

COURT.

Undted States v. Garcia.

It was ample. Garcia had a house on the land, cultivated
it, and had a large herd of cattle on it; had laborers on it., and
this continuously.
He resided alternately there and on another ranch.
"Not a single provision contained in the act of 1824, or in
the regulations of 1828, has been complied with or followed
in all this business."
On.the contrary, every provision but obtaining the tilulo and
the approval of the Departmental Assembly was complied
with. There was a petition, with a diseno; there were cultivation and improvement; there was at least an implied order
or promise to issue the titulo.
"It bears no sort of resemblance to the proceeding which
thbse laws require to be instituted and carried on before an
individual ,can be vested with a title to' a portion of the public
domain."
Those laws do not imperatively require any particular proceedings.
r "It was wholly unlike the measures, and acts, and records,
which were usual in such cases. *Thisis not a title derived
from Mexico, according to the laws or according to the customs
that Government."
Theofproceeding
was substantially the same as the one most
usual; the difference was in favor of the Government. Usually
the grant waO upon conditions subsequent; here they were to
be performed in advance of the titldo. Custom and usage
-were well followed. The proceeding had.not arrived at the
stage of record.
."It is nota grant at all. It does not pretend to be a grant.
It is folly to call Micheltorena's passport a grant of land; and
Pico signed not-fing but an order upon the alcalde to report
i1pou the matter. The claim, under such a title as this, is so
preposterous that it is impossible to argue against it with any
sort of seriousness."
It is plain the paper is not a mere passport. It giver
authority beybnd the permission to proceed to the northern
frontier. It'authorizes the selection and occupation of a tract
,fdland, pending the usual proceedings to gel a .I!ulo, and by

DEOEMBER TERM, 1859.

279

United States v. Garcia..

exacting the diseno, and speaking of such proceedings, impliedly promises at the least to give a itu o.
"It never was regarded as a title by the Mexican Government."
There is no warrant for this remark. On the contrary, one
of the Mexican officials pronounced the decree of Micheltorena
a grant-a conclusion it is to be wondered Mr. Attorney General forgot, since it provoked him, in a former part of his brief,
into pronouncing it a false statement, as if it had been an
allegation of fact.
"There was no expediente on file. The papers are all produced from the private custody of the claimant himself."
They had not yet been returned to. the authorities after Pacheco's report. The report was dated April 29th, 1846, and
the Government expired July 7th, 1846, having been much
disturbed in the interval.. The distance between San Rafael, where Pacheco lived, and Los Angeles, where Pico
was, is from seven hundred or eight hundred to a thousand
miles.
"There is no trace of the proceeding to be found anywhere
upon record."
As was said before, the proceedings had not arrived at the
stage of record.
"The genuineness -of the papers is extremely doubtful."
The genuineness of the papers is established; the witnesses
are not impeached.
"If anything were wanting to expose this claim to further
contempt, it might be found in Micheltorena's proclamation
of December 16, 1844, wherein he states exactly how he was
employed on the 15th of November, the day upon which his
passport to Garcia is dated. It makes it, to say the least, extremely improbable that he could on that day have done what
he describes, and been at the same time in Monterey issuing
such papers as this to Garcia, and transacting business in the
way that Richardson describes."
This is a mistake. The proclamation does not show ho was
bsent from Monterey on the 15th of November, or employed
•u any other business.

SUPREME COURT.
United Saw v. Garcia.

"The seal affixed to Micheltorena's letter is a manifest
forgery."
There is no proof of this. Mr. Attorney General's repertory
of photographic pictures affords no evidence for this court. If
he wished the benefit of evidence of this kind, he should have
introduced it in the court below. No practice can be more
reprehensible than to offer and comment upon evidence dehors
the record, and especially upon an issue not raised below.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The question in this case is, whether the land claimed was
private property when we acquired California by treaty, or
whether it then was part of the public domain of Mexico, and
now belongs to the public lands of the United States.
1. If it was private property, it must have become so by the
grant of a vested interest, that was good in equity; made by
:the granting power in the Territory of California, being
authorized to exercise the sovereign power, As no other
authority could divest the public title.
2. If the land in dispu:te was acquired by the United States,
as public property, then the courts of justice have no jurisdiction of the subject matter, and cannot interfere. T-is is a
postulate, not open to controversy. United States v. Forbes,
15 Peters, 182.
That the Mexican authorities, exercising the granting power
in California, conferred no title on Garcia, we .think satisfactorily appears, for the reasons set forth in the opinion of Judge
Hoffman, delivered in the District Court, and found in the
records, the most material parts of which opinion we adopt.
The district judge says:
"In support of his claim, the appellant exhibits an order of
Michelterona, dated November 15, 1844, which is as follows:
IAccording to your memorial of the 14th instant, you ask for
the grant of a pass&if0 to penetrate into the points of the coast
onthe northern line of this country, with the-object of locating
. tract of lad of the extent of eight to nine leagues, since that
which you now occupy with your personal property is so limited., By this order, you are empowered to appear before the.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

281

MW
ietates y.Garia.

military commanding authority of thai frontier, in order that,
after an examination, you may proceed to your research after
the tract of land you ask for, as a recompense for the services
rendered by you to the nation.
"'If you should happen to select any tract of land, you are
empowered to occupy it with your said property, and to take
possession of it while the usual procedure is being prosecuted,
presenting the requisite sketch.
"' God and liberty.

MANUEL MIOHELTORENA.

"'Monterey, November 15, 1844.
"' To -Don.Thfael Garca, at his rancho.'
"Availing himself of the permission thus granted, the claimant appears to have selected a tract of land, and to have occupied and improved it to some extent. No steps, however,
were taken by him to obtain a title until March 4th, 1846,
when Garcia addressed a petition to Gov. Pico, in which, after
referring to the order of Micheltorena, he solicits a grant of
the land. Gov. Pio Pico, by a marginal order, dated April
7th, 1846, referred the petition to the alcalde of San Rafael,
for the usual informe. On the 29th of April, 1846, the
alcalde reported that the land did not belong to any private individual. The foregoing constitutes all the evidence
of title produced by the claimant. It is not pretended
that any grant was ever issued for the land, or that any further action whatever was taken by Pio Pico on receiving the
alcalde's informe. Whether he determined not to grant the
land, or whether he omitted to do so in consequence of the
distracted condition of public affairs, we are ignorant. One
fact is .clear: no grant was obtained by the claimant.
"A mere petition to search for land, such as that given to
the present claimant, finds no place in the Mexican system.
"The-application of Garcia to Micheltorena was for a passport to enable him to search for land. In granting this, and
also the permission to put his cattle upon the tract he might
select, Micheltorena in no respect bound himself or-his successors to issue a final title. Such seems to have been the
view of Pio Pico and the claimant himself, for a petition,
accompanied by the usual diseno, is formally presented to

SUPREME COURT.
Moclicken,'

xcutoa v. Perim

that officer, and by him referred for information, as in othey
cases.
"If this claim is to be confirmed, every provisional license
or permission temporarily to occupy land must be held to constitute an equitable title, provided the claimant has availed
himself of the permission-a ruling which would astonish no
one more than the old inhabitants of the country, by whom
the importance of obtaining a ' title' from the Governor was
well understood.
"For aught we know, Pio Pico, when the petition was subsequently presented, found it inexpedient to grant the land;
and if the claimant, under a mere permission to occupy it with
his cattle, has built a house upon it, and for two years omitted
any effort to procure a title, he must attribute the loss of the
land to his own neglect."
The board of commissioners unanimously rejected the claim,
from whose decision Garcia, the claimant, appealed to the District Court. There the judgment of the board was reversed,
on a division of opinion, and a decree entered, confirming the
claim, probably with a view-of transmitting the cause to this
court f6r final determination.
For the reasons above statel it is ordered that the decree
of the District Court be reversed. And the court below is
directed to dismiss the petition; for which purpose, the cause
is remanded.

CHARLES McMxC'x's EXEcuTORS, VIz: WnmZAM CRosMM,
FREmaN G.CAEY mwWn
M. F. Mm~sox, v. FrwirnLIN PEntIN.
Where a bill of review was filed, alleging that the decree was obtained by fiud,
which allegations were denied in the answer, and it appeared by the evidence
that the complainant had lost the suit by his omn neglec, the bill of reviev
was properly dismissed by the court below7.

Tins was an appeal from the -Circuit Court of +he Units
States for the eastern district of Louisiana. -

