DECEMBER TERM. 1859.

69

Kock v. Enmerling.

the proceeds of the sixteenth section, with the proviso, that
the whole of the proceeds shall be expended in the township.
If it be more, then an equal portion to each scholar elsewhere
furnished by the State fund-still, the township. has the benefit
of such excess, but receives nothing from the *treasury; and
if it be less, then the deficiency is made up, so as to equalize
according to the general provision.
And the question here is, Wvhethdr the State laws violate the
acts of Congress providing that the jroceeds of the sixteenth
section shall be for the use of schools in the township. And
our opinion is, that expending the proceeds of the sixteenth
section for the exclusive use of schools "in the township"
where the section exists, is a compliance with the legislation
of Congress on the subject; nor is the State bound to provide
any additional fund for a township receiving the bounty of
Congress, no matter to what extent other parts of the State
are supplied from the treasury.
The law is a perfectly just one; but if it were otherwise,
and the school fund was distributed partially, nevertheless
those receiving the bounty from Congress have no right to
call on this court to interfere with the power exercised by the
State Legislature in laying and collecting taxes, and in appropriating them for educational purposes, at its discretion.
We hold, that a true construction was giveD to the acts of
Congress referred to, and order that the judgment be affirmed.

CHARLES KOCK, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. Louis EMMERLING.

Where an agent was employed to sell an estate in Louisiana, and the owner
refused, without sufficient reasons, to fulfil an agreement which the agent had
made, a right to demand compensation accrued to the agent, the amount of
which is to be settled by established usage.

Tuis case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United1 States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was submitted on printed argument by M1r. Pike for the

SUPREME COURT.
Kock v. Emmaerling.

plaintiff in error, and argued by Mr. Benjamin for the defendant.
Mr. Pke contended, that neither by the common law nor by
the law of Louisiana was the broker entitled to any commission.
On the subject of the common law, he cited the cases of
Broad v. Thomas, 7 Bing., 99, and Read v. Rann, 10 Barn. and
Cress., 438.
On the subject of the law of Louisiana, be cited many
authorities from the civil law, and the case of De Santos r.
Taney, decided in November, 1857. With respect to this latter case; he said:
In De Santos v. Taney, in November, 1857, the very question in this case came before the same court. In that case, a
real estate broker, employed to find a purchaser for a house,
had done so. The price and terms were agreed to and settled, and accepted by the defendant in writing. The bill of
sale was drawn and ready; when a dispute arose as to who
should pay certain taxes, and the matter was broken off. The
court affirmed the decision in Blanc v. the Improvement and
Banking Co., and Didion & ]Duralde; and said that, in all the
cases relied on by the broker, the contract was consummated,
though, through bad faith towards the broker on the part of
his principal, it had been suspended, and apparently abandoned.
The court said, "Negotiations for sales through brokers,
interrupted and broken off at every stage of progress to completion, are of daily occurrence. But all the authorities confirm the doctrine of Judge Afartin, as we understand it, that
no brokerage is due until the sale is complete and executed; that is to
say, until the considrationof the sale has passed to the "endor."
Thus it is settled, by the legitimate interpreter of the law
of Louisiana, as the law of that State under its code, tLat, as
is the law in England, the broker, if paid at all, is paid by way*
-of commissions-. e., by a per centage upon the money a,.tually received on a completed sale; and that if there be no sale
he is entitled to nothing.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

71

Kock v. Emmerling.

And this is a reasonable doctrine. The compensation in
case of success is very large; and, in fixing it so high, all the
uncertainties and difficulties to be anticipated in completing a
sale, whether arising from the whims and caprices of the parties, or from any other cause, may well be regarded as taken
into consideration. The broker's implied contract is, in effect,
an aleatory one. For the chance of a large reward, he risks
his labor and trouble. He takes the chances of success, and
must be supposed to have considered the caprice, even, of
each party, as an element of the calculation. And a plain
reason for this .is, that it would be, in almost every case, inpossible to prove that mere caprice broke off the negotiation.
As he has no legal right to force a party to conclude a sale or
purchase, that he may have hisiee, so he has no right to insist
on knowing the reason which caused the refusal to proceed,
any more than if he were a, marriage broker. In this case, as
in that of a marriage not effected, he must, to recover, establish a proposition be cannot establish, to wit: that the parties
refusing to proceed did so for an insufficient reason.
It is not shown in this case that he incurred any expenses
or made any outlay. The suit is for his commissions, and the
judgment allowing him such commissions is surely erroneous.
Mr. Benjamin said:
This case is a very simple one. Emmerling, a real estate
broker, was employed by Kock to find a purchaser for his
plantation ht the price of $250,000. A purchaser was found
by the broker, with whom the bargain was made by Kock at
the price fixed by himself. After making a verbal agreement
for the sale, Kock changed his mind, and refused to sell. The
question is, whether he can lawfully refuse to pay his broker
the commission earned, on the ground that the sale was not
actually eficted, when it was his own act that prevented the
accomplishment of the sale.
The judge below decided rightly that the commissions were
due.
0. C., 2085.
Rtighter v. Aleman, 4 Rob., 45.

SUPREME COURT.
Kock v. Emniwrling.

Wells v. Smith, 3 La. Rep., 501.
Levistones v. Landreaux, 6 Annual, 26.
Lestrade v. Perrera, 6 Annual, 398.
MeGavock v. Woodlief, 20 How., 221.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the Unitea
States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
An action was brought by Emmerling, an alien, against
Kock, a citizen of Louisiana, for the sum of five thousand
dollars, on the purchase and sale of real estate.
Emmerling, it seems, being a broker, and engaged in the
purchase and sale of real property, was employed by Kock to
sell a certain plantation on the Bayou Lafourohe, known as
the Letory place, and by hiis written instructions, the 2d April,
1857, was authorized to sell this plantation above named at
two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, payable one-fifth cash,
and the remainder in four equal instalnients,'bearing eight per
cent. interest..
The petitioner, it is alleged, after visiting the plantation at
varioub times, and with different persons, finally, on the 19th
of April, 1857, made an agreement with Jacob Denny, a resident of Louisiana, to purchase the plantation at the price
fixed, provided the said. Kock woulr so change the terms of
payment as to receive forty thousand dollars in cash, and the
remainder in six annual instalments, bearing seven per cent.
interest.
Kock consented to the terms, and the 29th April he and
Denny met at New .Orldans to complete the contract. Kock
insisted that for the first year's cedit a good acceptance for
thirty thousand dollars should be given, and agreeing, if this
were' done, the five thousand dollars remaining on the first
term should be equally divided among the other five terms, so
that the first year's.payment should be thirty thousand dollars,
and the other five credit terms should be thirty-six thousand
dollars each. And he agreed to take as satisfactory the acceptance of Messrs. Fellows & Co., or Messrs. Lavoe & MeOolI, commission merchants, of New Orleans. Messrs. Fellows

DECEMBER TERM, 1859

78

Kock-v. Emmerling.

& Co. agreed to accept for the thirty thousand dollars, and
Denny .-.
ffer~d to advance the forty thousand dollars, and in
every other iespect to carry out and complete the proposed
contract. But Kock refused to comply with his agreement,
capriciously, as it. would seem, as he assigned no reason for
his refusal, except that he was going to Europe on a visit with
his family, and had no time to execute the title papers. Denny
proposed to provide for the payments, and receive the title on
his return, but he refused to sell the'plantation.
The petitioner alleged that the contract was fully executed
ol his part, and on the part of Denny; and he claims a recompense for the service in which be was engaged, at the rate of
two per cent. on two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, making the sum of five thousand dollars, said per centage being
the usual established rate of broker's commission on the sales
of plantations.
The defendant denies the allegations of the bill in the Circuit Court.
A judgment" was entered .inthe Circuit Court for the sum
claimed by the petitioner; from*which judgment the defendant
has appealed to this court.
In his statement of facts, the district judge says: "It is established.by the proof that the price of the plantation was two
hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and the rate of commissions of brokers on sales of plantations was two per cent."
This is the ordinary mode of bringing before this court a writ
of error on a statement of facts in Louisiana by the district
judge. MeGavock v. Woodlief, 20 How., 225.
There would seem to be no doubt on the merits of this case.
The terms of the contract as to the sale were specific and unmistakable, and everything was done that could be done by
the purchaser to carry oat the contract; but the vendor, without any reason, refused to complete it.
The broad ground is assumed, that nb contract of this character can be specifically enforced, unless it has .been fully executed.
In the case of McGavock, above cited, the court say: "The
terms of the sale, as given by the vendor to the plaintiff, the

SUPREME COURT.
Kock v. YMnwrling.

broker, were simple and specific, &c., and Long, the purohaser.
agreed to these terms, as averred in the petition, and not questioned in the case; and if he had offered, and was in a condition to consummate the agreement according to its terms,
no doubt the commission would have been earned, and the
recovery below right." But a change was proposed by Long,
which prevented the arrangement.
Civil Code, 2035, declares, "The condition is considered as
fulfilled, when the fulfilment of it has been prevented by the
party bound to perform if." In addition to this, the following
authorities have been- cited: Righter v. Alamon, 4 Rob., 45;
Wells v. Smith, 3 La. Rep., 501; Levistones v. Landreaux, 6
Annual, 26; Lestrade v. Perrera, 6 Annual, 398.
. It is not perceived why a contract to sell property, real or
personal, on commission, should not be governed by the same
rules as other sales. If a usage has been established in Louisiana, as seems to be the case, for the sales of plantations, such
usage, being reasonable, should govern in the absence of a
special agreement.
NTothing is more common in our -large cities Than to charge
brokerage for procuring the loan of money. This varies as
the money market rises or falls. One per cent., and sometimes two, is charged for this service. The same rule applies
as to the sale of property. Where the contract is fair, it is not
perceived why such compensation should not be paid, as agreed
by the parties, or by an established usage.
Where the vendor is satisfied with the terms, made by himself, thr ugh the broker, to the purchaser, and no solid objection can be stated, in any form, to the contract, it would
seem to be clear that the commission of the agent was due,
and ought to be paid. It would be a novel principle if the
vendor might capriciously defeat his own contract with his
agent by refusing to pay him when he had done all that he
was bound to do. . The agent might well undertake to procure the purchaser; but this being done, his labor and expense
could not avail him, as he could not coerce a willingness to
pay the commission which the vendor had agreed to pay.
Such a state of things could only arise from an expre:s under.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

75

XorrX v. Cone d a.

standing that the vendor was to pay nothing, unless he should
choose to make the sale.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
Mr. Justice CATRON and Mr. Justice GRIER dissented.

EL

& MORRILL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOHN COKE AND
CARLOS J. Co1.

Although under a power of attorney, authorizing a conveyance of lands, the
legal title does not pass when the attorney executes a deed, unless the sale was
made in accordance with the requirements of the power, yet in this case, where
the deed executed by the attorney was apparently vithin the scope of his power,
and admitted the payment of the consideration, it was prima face evidence
of the conveyance of the legal title.
The evidence offered to show that the power of attorney had not been complied
with, was not sufficient in an action of ejectment to recover, the lands after a
long period of time had elapsed, and the lands had been repeatedly sold.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the nbrthern district of Elinois.
It was -n ejectment, brought by Morrill, a citizen of New
Hampshire, to recover from John Cone and Carlos J. Cone
the southwest quarter of section thirty-six, township eleven
north, range one west, in the county of Warren, and State
of Illinois.
Upon the trial, the plaintiff exhibited his title as follows,
viz:
1. A patent for the land in question from the United States
to Benjamin Abbott, dated April 9th, 1818.
2. A deed for said land from said Abbott to the plaintiff,
dated January 9th, 1855.
3. The plaintiff also put in evidence, by way of precaution,
a deed to himself from one Nathaniel Abbott, dated October
26th, 1838.
The defendants, in order to show that the title had passed
out of the Abbotts to grantees, under whom they made de.
fence, at a time prior to the inception of the plaintiff's title,
read to the jury-

