DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

i9

Lytle et al. v. State of Arkansar et al.

Bond was given to prosecute the appeal, and ie clerk certifies the record to be a true copy of the proceedings.
No appeal can be taken from the fina do:cision of a State
court of last resort, under the twenty-fift section of the judiciary act, to the Supreme Court of the United States. A writ
of error alone can bring up the cause. We refer to the appendix of Curtis's Digest for the mode.
It is ordered that the case be dismissed.

ROBINSON LJYTLE AND LYDIA L.

HIS WIFE, NATHAN HM CLOYEs,

AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. THE STATE OF ARKAN-

SAS, CHARLES

B.

BERTRAND, AND OTHERS.

Where the decision of a State court was against the validity of an entry of land
which had been allowed by the proper officers of the United States, this enurt
has jurin'iction, under the 25th section of the judiciary act, to revise that
judgment, whether the invalidity was decreed upon a question of fact or of
law.
The adjudication of the register and receiver is subject to revision in the courts
of justice, on proof; showing thki the. entry was obtained by fraud and the
imposition of false tc.timony on those officers, as to settlement and cultivation.
This court has so decided heretolbre.
Over the questions raised in the court below, ofthe effect of a bona fide purchase
and of the statute of limitations, this court has no jurisdiction.
But the evidence shows that the entry was obtained by false affidavits as to residence and cultivation. The judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas is
therefore affirmed.
THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Arkansas by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the judiciary act. It was a chancery case, but correctly
brought up by writ of error. See preceding case of Verden v.
Coleman.
It wps before this court at a preceding term, and is reported
in 9 Howard, 314., -Itwill be perceived, by referring to that
case, that this court decided that the pre-emption .act of 1830
conferred certain rights upon settlers upon public lands, upon.

proof of settlement or improvement being made to the satis-.
1S
VOL. XXII.

194

SUPREME COURT.
Lytle et al. v. State of Arkansas et al.

faction of the register and receiver, agreeably to the rulesprescribed by the Commissioner of the General Land Office.
And their decision must be considered final, unless impeached
on the ground of fraud or unfairness. 9 Howard, 338. The
principal point now decided was, that the entry then recognised was obtained by false affidavits as to residence and
cultivation.
The cause, as decided in 9 Howard, having gone back to
Arkansas, the bill was amended, and various new parties,
both complainants and defendants, were introduced. Most
of the defendants answered; decrees were taken against some
of those who did not answer, and the bills dismissed as to
other.
The State court decided many questions upon which their
decision was final, and not ubject to be reviewed by this
court under the 25th section of the judiciary act. The principal one before this court was, whether or not Cloyes imposed on the register and receiver by false affidavits as to
cultivation and residence.
The case was argued in this court by Mr. Bradley, upon a
brief filed by _ir. Stilwell and himself, for the plaintiffs in
error, and by Mr. Watkins and Mr. Pike for the defendants in
error, upon which side there was also filed a written argument
by Mr. Henipsta4.
The arguments which were filed were very voluminous, and
the record contained nearly a thousand printed pages. The
opinion of the Supreme Court of Arkansas was, that, from the
proof in the cause, the pre-emption claim set up in the bill
was aud is fraudulent in fact and in law; and this was the
judgment sought to be reversed by this court. The evidence
upon the question constituted a large part of the record. The
opinion of this court refers to a portion of it, and the residue
of it the reporter does not intend to to-ach. The counsel for
the plaintiff in error contended that the decree of the land
officers, whilst it stands, is conclusive as to the title of the preemptioner and those claiming under him; that it could not be

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Lyt et al Y. State of Arkansas et aL

impeached collaterally, but could be-impeached for fraud only
in a direct proceeding, by either an original or cross bill; and
that, as the defendants had not so impeached or attempted to "
impeach it, they cannot be permitted tospeak about fraud as
a mere matter of defence.
18 Howard, 43, and authorities there cited.
The views of the counsel on both sides, upon the queftion
of the jurisdiction of this court in this case, were as follows:
The counsel for the plaintiff in error said:
It may be insisted that this court has no jurisdiction of the
case.
Had the Supreme Court of Arkansas simply affirmed the
decree of the court of original jurisdiction, there would appear
more plausibility in this; though, then, we think the juris.
diction clear.
The right set up by the plaintiffs in error arises under an
act of Congress, and the decision of the Supreme Court of
Arkansas was against that right; consequently, this court has
jurisdiction of the case, without regard to the particular
ground upon which the decree of the State court is based.
14 Howard's Rep., 889.
Cunningham v. Ashley et al., ib., 98.
1 Howard's Rep., City of Mobile v. Emanuel.
The right grQws out of an act of Congress, and is sanctioned
against all laws and judicial decisions of the States.
5 Cranch's Rep., 344, Owings v.Norwood's Lessee.
5 Peters's Rep., 257, Fisher's Lessor v. Cockerell.
It is sufficient that the validity of a treaty, or statute of, oz
an authority exercised under the authority of the United
States, was drawn in question, and the decision was against
their validity.
1 Wheaton's Rep., 804, 322, 352, Martin v. Huinter's
Lessee, et seq.
3 Condensed R., 474.- Same case.
The evidence for the defence was admitted, for the purpose
of impeaching the right claimed under the act of Congress,
and granted to theni by the land officers acting under it;

SUPREME COURT.
L tle et al. v. Sta& of Arkan-a et aZ.

consequently, the decision of the State court, upon the eff e t
of such evidence, may be fully considered here, and the decree reversed or affirmed.
4 Howard's Rep., 447, Mackay v. Dillon.
The power to revise and reverse a decision of a State court,
depriving a party of his right to transfer his case from a State
ccurt to a Circuit Court of the United States for trial, his
been exercised.
14 Howard's Rep., 103, Gordon v. Longest.
In Neilson v. Lagow, 7 Howard's Rep., 775, the plaintiff.
claimed the land under an authority exercised by the Secretary of the Treasury in behalf of the United States, and the
decision was against the validity of the authority thus exercised; and on motion to dismiss, Chief Justice TAiNY said:.
"We think it is evidently one. of the cases prescribed for in
the -twenty-fifth section of the act of 1789."
In this case, the decision was against an authority exercised
by the register and receiver, subordinates of the Secretary of
the Treasury, but under the same authority.
The jurisdiction exists wherever the laws of Congress and
the acts of officers executing them in perfecting titles to
public lands have been drawn in question and construed by
the Supreme Court of a State, and the decision is against the
title set up under the laws of Congress and the authority exercised under them.
19 Howard's Rep., 207, Cousin v. Blanc's Executors.
In McDonogh v. Millaudon, 19 Howard's Rep., 704, Mr.
Justice CATRON said: "Did this final judgment draw in question the- construction of a treaty or statute of the United
States, or of an authority exercised under the same, and was
the decision against the validity of either pr against the title
or i'ight set'up under either? If these questions arc answered
in the negative, it follows that we have no jurisdiction to reexamine or reverse the judgment under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act."
Hence, it must follow, necessarily, if answered affirmatively
any one of them, the- court would lTave jurisdiction. The
plaintiffs in *his case claim under the authority exercised

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Lytle et a. Y. State of Arkanas el a&

under a statute of the United States, and a right set up undei
it, and the decision was against them.
Wynn v. Garland was similar to this in every respect, and
the question was passed over without notice.
20 Howard's Rep., 7.
In order to- give jurisdiction, it is sufficient, if the record
shows, that it is clear from the facts stated, by just and necessary inference, that the question was made, and that the State
court must, in order to have arrived at the judgment pronounced by it, have decided that question as-indispensable to
that judgment.
10 Peters Rep., 392, Crowell v. Randell.
1 id. Rep., 250, Wilson et al. v. the Blackbird C. M. Corn
pany.
1 Wheaton's Rep., 355, Martin v. Hunter's Lessee.
4 id. Rep., 311, Miller v. Nichols.
12 id. Rep., 117, Williams v. Norris.
The jurisdictiou must be "determined.by reference to the
record. And in doing so,-the court will refer to the opinion
of the State court, where it is made a part of the record by
the laws of the. State.
19 Howard's Rep., 207, Cousin v. Blanc's Executors.
In this case, there is no necessity, in the first instance, of
looking behind the decree of the Supreme Court of Arkansas,
to determine the ground of the decision; but, if need be, we
may look back to the decision of the chancellor, whose decree
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Arkansas, and shall
find that he overruled all the defences set up, except the invalidity of the pre-emption claim of Cloyes. (His opinion is
made a part of the record-see Gould's Digest of the Laws of
Arkansas, p. 242, sec. 17.) Certainly the fact that the Supreme Court decided against the right of the plaintiffs, upon
the ground that it was fraudulent, cannot oust the jurisdiction.
If that court had refused the relief because the proof showed
-that Cloyes never occupied or cultivated the land, the case
would be the same; because the want of possession and cultivation, in the eyes of that court, constituted the -fraud. The
.dc-a of fraud can pot be disconnected from the act of Congress.

SUPREME COURT.
Lye et al. v. Slate of Arkansas et al.

If there was any fraud, it was a fraud upon the law, and upon
the United States through her land officers.
The decision being against the right, the Supreme Court
has jurisdiction to re-examine the case, and determine, not
whether the decision was right upon the particular ground,
but whether the right was properly'denied. The decree of
the State court would not have been what it is, if there 'had
not been a decision against the right set up by the plaintifih;
and this is all sufficient.
12 Howard Rep., 124, Williams v. Oliver et al.
3 Peters Rep., 292, 802.
And the decision of the State court need not be confined
exclusiVely and especially to the construction of the treaty act
of Congress, &c., in order to give jurisdiction.
12 Howard Rep., 124, Williams v. Oliver.
Points may arise, growing out of and connected with the
general question, and so blended with it as not to be separated,
and therefore falling equally within the decision contemplated
by the twenty-fifth section. The case of Smith v. the State
of Maryland, 6 Cranch, 281, and Martin v. Hunter's Lessee,
1 Wheaton, 305, 355, afford illustrations of this principle.
Here the record shows affirmatively that the decision was
against the right set up and the authority of the land officers,
excluding the idea that the decision was made upon the other
defence set- up by tle. defendants, such as purchasers for a
valuable consideration without notice, statutes of lifnitation,
lapse of time, &c. And it follows, as a matter of course, that
if the decision of the State court upon that point was wrong,
the decree must be reversed.
The counsel for the defendant in error, Mir. Watkins, made
the following point upon the question of the jurisdiction of
this court in this case:
On a writ of error from a State court, where no question of
law is presented, it is not"the province or duty of this court
to review the decision of an issue of fact merely, made by the
court below, with its superior facilities for determining the
fact according to the weight or credibility of testimnny.

DECEMBEI%

rTEI R,

1859.

Lfyle et at. v. Stae of Arkansas et a.

By the judiciary act of 1789, appeals were only allowed
from the District to the Circuit Courts. There was no mode
of bringing up any case to this court, except bsy writ of error.
Blain v. Ship Carter, 4 Dallas, 22.
The terms, appeal and writ of error, though used by the act,
were not confounded. An appeal is a civil-law proceeding,
which removes the cause entirely, and is a rehearing on the
facts as well as the law.
Wischart v. Danchy, 3 Dallas, 3f1.
The great object of the judiciary act of 1789 was to confine
the appellate jurisdiction of this court to the examination and
decision of questions of law, on errors assigned and made to
appear upon the record. By section nineteen, the Circuit
Courts in equity were required to cause the facts, upon which
they founded their decree, to appear upon the record, either
by a statement of such facts by the parties, or by the court
where they could not agree, being analogous to a special
verdict or case stated in trials at law. This regulation appears
to have been regarded with some jealousy, according to the
report of the case last cited, (Wischart v. Danchy,) as conferring a power on the Circuit Courts in chancery, which
might be abused by a determination of facts contrary to or not
warranted by the ,evidence. That feeling probably led to the
passage of the act of 3d March, 1803, providing for an appeali
in chancery causes, from the Circuit Courts to this court, and
that on such appeal the transcript should contain all the pleadings, depositions, and documentary evidence, in the cause.
The policy of the act of 1803, as apparent from its history,
was, to enable this court to review and correct any gross
error of the Circuit Courts, in determining questions of fact,
against or without evidence. The principle pervading the
exercise of appellate jurisdiction by this court is only partially
innovated upon. I apprehend that no appeal in chancery was
ever decided by this court, without deference to the opinion
of the Circuit Court, which tried the cause upon the thicts
which the evidence conduced to establish; while, on the other
hand, their errors or misconstructions of law are freely examined. And considering tliat in theory, and usually in prac-

, (UPREME COURT.
Lytk et al. v. State oJ Arkansas et al.

tice, a justice of this court presides at the circuit, he has all
the opportunities afforded in equity and admiralty causes, for
arriving at a just conclusion upon the facts.
In all the cases from Parsons v. Bedford, 3 Peters, 444,
(where this court refused to give efficacy to the act of 26th
May, 1824, as an entering wedge for the civil-law practice of
Louisiana, whereby this court would be called on to re-examine facts ascertained in the court below,) to Minor v. Tillotson, 2 Howard, 892, and Fenn v. Holme, 21 Howard, 481,
this court has perseveringly resisted all efforts to engraft upon
the Federal Judiciary the civil-law practice, or the ifiongrel
systems of Texas and other new States.
But, in any view of it, the act of 1803 does not apply to writs
of error from a State court, unqer the 25th section of the judiciary act. And according to the construction repeatedly given
by this court, touching the distinction between an appeal and
a writ of error, where those terms are used in acts of Congress, nothing is examinable on a writ of error by this court,
as one of appellate jurisdiction, except questions of error in
law. In view of the tendency of modern law reforms, so called, to make law equity, to assimilate pleadings in all civil
causes to the chancery forms of a complaint, answer, and
reply, and bring upon the record a crude mass of testimony,
it seems proper for this court to consider whether such innovations shall be suffered to impair its own usefulness. The
time, the learning, and ripe experience of the judges of the
highest appellate court in the world belong to the country,
and need not be wasted in the investigation of paltry questions
of fact, which are of no concern beyond the immediate parties
to the dispute. The imposition of such a duty would not only
be subversive of the theory of appellate jurisdiction, but is one
which an appellate court is not competent to perform. When
this cause was tried in 9 Howard, the facts confessed by the demurrer lay in a nut-shell. The decision is interesting and important as an affirmance of the doctrine, that an inchoate right
of pre-emption vested under law is not defeated by a subsequent
act of Congress granting the land. But on this record, suppose
fl court here to enter upoitu re-examination of faicts, and after

DECEMBER TEM;N

1859.

Lylk el al. v. State, qfArkaas e al.

a patient and laborious collation of the testimony, and without
indeed those aids attendant upon the court which tried the
cause, and breathing the atmosphere of the witnesses, could
instinctively appreciate their worth or credibility, should arrive at the conclusion that the claim of Cloyes was unfounded
in fact, and fraudulent, the decision, settling no question of
law, would not be worthy of a place in thereports. I take it,
that amid all changes and fluctuations in the jurisprudence of
the States, the principle governing 'the appellate jurisdiction
of this court should remain unchanged; so that whatever mode
of trial may be provided in the local tribunals, and to which
the parties have resorted, the ascertainment of a fact, according to the mode provided, is to be regarded as final and conclusive of the fact.
I venture to submit, that it is only according to a technical
veiw of the judiciary act that this court has any jurisdiction in
the premises. It is true, that because the plaintiffs in error
claim under a law of Congress, and the decision is against the
right claimed, they come literally within the terms of the 25th
section; so that the court, according to its practice, might refuse to entertain a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction,
and out of abundant caution reserve the question until the final
argument. Doubtless, if the plaintiffs in error can put their
finger on any error or misconstruction of law by the chancellor
in the determination of the fact, or, in other words, can show
that he regarded those acts of the claimant as fraudulent,
which, in the opinion of this court, and according to its construction of the law, were not so, then the decision of the
court below would be examinable for that error. But, apart
from the consideration of all other elements of mala ides, one
esaential fact, ascertained and decided by the court below, is,
that Cloyes did not cultivate in 1829. While that determination stands, there never was any right, and consequently there
is no jurisdiction.
Finally, if it be the pleasure of the court to go into a re-examination of the entire testimony, the defendants in error,whomi.I represent, confidently invite it, and are content to
-efer to the exposition of the evidence contained in the decis.

SUPREME COURT.
Lytle et al. v. State of Arkansas et al.

ions of the chancellor and Supreme Court of Arkansas, and in
the argument of Mr. Hempstead.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question presented on the record is, whether tliis
court has jurisdiction to examine and revise the decision of
the Supreme Court of Arkansas by writ of error, under the
25th section of the judiciary act? The question arises on the
following facts:
Nathan Cloyes, ancestor of the principal complainants, entered as an occupant, at a land office in Arkansas, a fractional
quarter section of land, in 1834, under the pre-emption acts of
1830 and 1832. The fraction adjoined the village of Little
Rock on its eastern side, and was for twenty-nine acres. The
same land had been patented in 1833 by the United States to
John Pope, Governor of the Territory of Arkansas, to be appropriated to the erection of public buildings for said Territory. The heirs of Cloyes claimed to have an earlier equity,
by force of their pre-emption right, than that of the Governor
of Arkansas.
They filed their bill in equity in the proper State court, to
enforce this equity. That bill contained appropriate allegations to exhibit an equitable title in the plaintiffs, and the opposing right of the patentee, and thus to enable the courts to
compare them. Some of the defendants demurred to the bill;
others antvered, denying the facts of the settlement and cultivation, and pleading the bona fides of their purchase and the
statute of limitations.
The courts of Arkansas dismissed the bill on the demurrer;
which judgment was reversed in this court, and the cause remanded for further proceedins. Lytle v. Arkansas, 9 How.,
314. It was prepared for hearing a second time, and the conirts
of Arkansas have again dismissed the bill, and the cause is a
second time before us.
The cause was fully heard on its merits below; and the
claim of Cloyes 'rejected, on the ground that he obtained his
entry by fraud in fact and fraud in law; and the question is,
'zau we take jurisdiction, and reflrn this g'tceral decree? It

DECE.MBER TERM, 1859.

203

Lyt et at. v. Stat of Arkansas et al.

-ejected the title of Cloyes; and, in our opinion, it is not material
whether the invalidity of the title was decreed in the Supreme
Court of Arkansas upon a question of fact or of law. The
fact that the title was rejected in that court authorizes this
court to re-examine the decree. 14 Peters, 360.
The decision in the Supreme Court of Arkansas drew in
question an authority exercised under the United States, to
wit: that of admitting Cloyes to make his entry; and the
decision was against its validity, and overthrew his title, and
is therefore subject to be re-examined, and reversed or affirmed
in this court, on all the pleadings arid proofs which immediately respect the question of the proper exercise of authority
by the officers administering the sale of the public lands on
the part of the United States.
In the case of Martin against Hunter's Lessee, (1 Whea.,
352,) the foregoing construction of the 25th section of the
judiciary act of 1789 was recognised, and has been followed
since, in the cases of Choteau against Eckhart, (2 How., 872,)
Cunningham against Ashley, (14 How., 877,) Garland against
Wynn, (20 How., 6,) and other cases.
Another preliminary question is presented on this record,
namely: whether the adjudication of the register and receiver,
which authorized Cloyes's heirs to enter the land, is subject
to revision in tle courts of justice, on proof; showing that the
entry was obtained by fraud and the imposition of false testimony on those officers, as to settlement and cultivation. We
deem this qfuestion too well settled in the affirmative for discussion. It was so treated in the case of Cunningham against
Ashley, (i4 How., 377;) again, in Bernard against Ashley,
(18 How., 43;) and conclusively, in the case of Garland against
Wynn, (20 How., 8.)
The next question is, how far we can re-examine the proceedings in the State courts.
In their answers, the respondents rely on the act of limitations of the State of Arkansas for protection. As this is a
defence having no connection with the title of Cloyes, this
court cannot revise the decree below in this respect, under +he
25th s ctibn of the judiciary act.

SUPREME COURT.
Lytle et al. v. State of Arka,.sas et al.

Many of the defendants also relied in their answers .on the
fact that they were bonia fide purchasers of the lots of land
they are sued for, and therefore no decree can be made here
to oust theni of their possessions. The State courts found
that a number of the respondents were purchasers without
notice of Oloyes's claim, and entitled to protection as bona fide
purchasers, according to the rules acted on by courts of equity.
With this portion of the decree we have no powerl to interfere,
as the defence set up is within the restriction found ii,the
concluding part of the 25th section, which declares "that lo
other error shall be assigned or regarded by this court as a1
ground of reversal, than such as immediately respects the
before-mentioned (Iiestioiis of validity or construction of the

Constitution, treaties, statutes, commissions, or authorities, in
dispute." Mr. Justice Story comments on the foregoing restraining clause, in the case of Martin r. Hunter's -Lessee, (1
Whea., 858,) which construction we need not repeat.
Whether Oloyes imposed on the register and receiver by
false affidavits, when lie made proof of cultivation in 1829, and
residence on the land in dispute on the 29th of May, 1830, is
the remaining question to be examined, lie made oath (23d
April, 1831) that he did live on said tract of land in the year
1829, and had done so since the year 1826. Being interrogated
by the register, lie stated: I had a vegetable garden, perhaps
to the extent of an acre, and raised vegetables of diffirent
kinds, and corn for roasting-cars; and I lived in a conifortable
dwelling, east of the Quapaw line on the before-mientioned
fraction. Being asked, did you continue to reside, and cultivate your garden aforesaid, on the before-named fraction,
until the 29th of May, 1830? he answers: "I did; and have
continued to do so until this time."
John Saylor deposed on behalf of Cloyes in effect to the
same facts, but in gencral terms. iNathan *W. Maynor and
Elliott Bursey swore that the affidavit of Saylor was true
On the truth or thlsehood of these depositions the cause
depends.
In opposition to these affidavits, it is proved, beyond dispute,
ulat Cloycs ald his ficiui ly resided at a house, Ir a part of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
10kt€ et al. v. State of Arkasas et al.

year 1828, occupied afterwards by Doctor Liser. In the latter
part of 1828, they removed from that place to some log cabins,
situate on the lots afterwards occupied by John Hutt, and
where the Governor of Arkansas resided in 1851, when the
witnesses deposed. Both places were west of the Quapaw
line-the cabins standin'g probably one hundred yards west
of the line,,and which line was the western boundary of the
fractional quarter section in dispute. Cloyes resided at these
cabins when he swore at Batesville, before the register; and
-continued to reside there till the time of his death, which
occurred shortly after his return from Batesville, say in May
or June, 1831, and his widow and children continued to reside at the same cabins for several years after his death.
(loyes was by trade a tinner, and in December, 1826;
rented of William-Russell a small house, constructed of slabs
set upright, in which he carried on his business of a tin-plate
worker. He covenanted to keep and retain possession for
Russell of this shop against dll persons, and not to leave the
house unoccupied, ai'd to pay Russell two dollars per month
rent, and surrender the house to Russell or his authorized
agent at any time required by the lessor.
Under this lease, Cloyes occupied the house until the 19th.
day of June, 1828, when he took a lease from Chester Ashley
for the same, and also for a garden. He covenanted to pay
Ashley one dollar per month rent; to put and keep the building in repair; to keep and retain possession of the same, until
delivered back to said Ashley by mutual consent, either party
having a right to terminate the lease on one month's notice.
Thd house and garden were rented by the month.
Under this lease, Cloyes occupied the house, as a tin-shop,
to the time of his death. 'Both the leases state that the shop
was east of the Quapaw line, and on the public lands.
This slab tenement was built by Moses Austin, about 1820.
On leaving Little Rock, he sold it to Doctor Mathew Cunningham; it passed through several hands, till it was finally
owned by Col. Ashley. Buildings and cultivated portions of
the public lands were protected by the local laws of the Ai
kans'as Territory; either ejectmnt or. trespass could have

SUPREME COURT.
Lytle et al.v. State of Arkansas et a7.

been maintained by Ashley against Cloyes to recover the
premises, nor could an objection be raised by.any one, except
the United States, to these transfers of possession-neither
could Cloyes be heard to disavow his landlord's title. He held
possession for Ashley, and was subject to be turned out on a
month's notice to quit.
Cunningham and other' witnesses depose that the shop
rented to Oloyes stood west of the Quapaw line. It however
appears, from actual survey, that it was on the section line,
which ran through the house, taking its southeast corner on
the east side, but leaving the greater part of the shop west of
the line.
Another pertinent circumstance is, that when Cloyes heard
the pre-emption law of 1830 was about to pass, or had passed,
(itis uncertain which, from the evidence,) he removed his
wife and children, with some articles of necessary furniture,
to the tinner's shop, from his residence at the Hutt place, and
kept his family at the shop for a few months, and then they
returned to their established home. This contrivance was
probably resorted to at the instance of Benjamin Desha, who
had agreed with Cloyes to pay into the land office the purchase money, and all incidental expenses, to obtain a title
from the Government for an interest of one-half of the land.
These evasions were mere attempts to defraud the law, and to
furnish some foundation for the necessary affidavits to support
his pre-emption claim at the land office.
On this aspect of the case, the question arises, whether
Cloyes's possession as lessee and tenant of Ashley, occupying
a shop as a mechanic, the corner of which accidentally obtruded over the section line, upon the public land, and who*
was subject to. removal by his landlord each month, was "a
settlement" on the public lands, within the true intent and
meaning of the act of May, 1830 ?
That Cloyes never contemplated seeking a home on the
public lands as a cultivator of the soil, is manifest from the
proof; he worked at his trade, when he worked at all,. (say
the witnesses,) and followed no other avocation. Our opinion
is, that the affidavits, on which the occupant entry was"found-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

207

Lytle et al. v. State ofArkansas et al.

ed, were untrue in fact, and a fraud on the register and
receiver; and that Cloyes had no bona fide possession as
tenant of the tinner's shop, within the true meaning of the act
of 1830.
We Are also of opinion, that the affidavits are disproved, as
respects the fact of cultivation in 1829. There was no garden
cultivated ii that year, adjoining or near to the shop. To say
the least, it is quite'doubtful whether there was such cultivation east of the Quapaw lifie; and the State courts, having
-found that there was none, it is our duty to abide by their
finding, unless we could ascertain, from the proof, that they
were mistaken, which we cannot do; our impressions being
to the contrary.
The question of cultivation in May, 1830, depended on
parol evidence of witnesses. The judges below knew them;
they decided on the spot, with all the localities before them;
and as the evidence is contradictory, it would be contrary to
precedent for this court to overrule the finding of a mere fact
by the courts below.
On the several grounds stated, we order that the decree of
the.Supreme Court of Arkansas be affirmed, with costs.
Mr. Justice MeLEAN and Mr. Justice CLIFTORD dis.
sented.
Mr. Justice McLEAN:
I dissent from the opinion of the court, as now expressed,
and shall refer to the former opinion, to show the nature of
the case:
"After the refusal of the receiver to receive payment for
the land claimed, an act was passed, 14th July, 1832, continuing the act of the 29th May, 1830, and which specially provided that those who'had not been enabled to eniter the land,
the pre-emption right of which they claimed, within the time
limited, in consequence of the public surveys not having been
made and returned, should have the right to enter such lands,
on the same conditions in every respect as prescribed in said
act, within one year after the surveys slha.

be made ad re.

SUPREME COURT.
Lyte et al. v. State of Arkansas et al.

turned. And this act was in full force before Governor Pope
selected said lands. That the public surveys of the above
fractional sections were made *andperfected on or about the
1st of December, 1833, and returned to the land office the beginning of the year 1834. On the 5th of March, "1834, the
complainant paid into the land office the sum of 9135.76J, in
full for the above-named quarter section."
That a certificate was granted for the same, "on which the
receiver endorsed, that the northwest fractional quarter section
two was a part of the location made by Governor Pope in selecting 1,000 acres, adjoining the town of Little Rock, granted
by Congress to raise a fund for building a court-house and jail
for the Territory; and that the endorsement was made by
direction of the Commissioner of the General Land Office."
"That the registei of the land office would not permit the
said fractional quarter sections to be entered."
It appeared that "the patentees in both of said patents, at
the time of their application to enter the lands, had both constructive and actual notice of the right of Cloyes, and that the
present owners of any part of these lands had also notice of
the right of the complaiiants."
In his dissenting opinion, Judge Catron says: "The proof
of occupancy and cultivation was made in April, 1831, under
the act of 1830, pursuant to an instruction from the Commissioner of the General Land Office having reference to that act.
The act itself, the instruction under its authority, and the
proofs taken according to the instruction, expired and came .to
an end on the 29th May, 1831. After that time, the matter stood
as if neither had ever existed; nor had Cloyes more claim to
enter from May 29, 1831, to July, 1832, than any other villager
in Little Rock."
Now, although it may be true that,, until the act of 1832 had
passed, the act of 1880 having expired, the 1,.e-emptive right
of Cloyes could not be perfected, yet the poliqy of the law was,
where vested rights had accrued, which, by reason of delays
in the completion of surveys, could not be carried out, the
,Government gave relief by extending teilaw. And the in.
-hotai right was sectired by the policy of the Government. It

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

209

Lytle et al. v. State of Arkanwas e a.

is therefore not strictly accurate to say, the party entering a
pre-emption has no right. He has a right, recognised by the
Government, by which he is enabled to perfect his right;
and, under such circumstances, no new entry could interfere
with a prior one, though imperfect.
This court say, the proof of the pre-emption right of Cloyes
being entirely satisfactory to the land officers, under the act 9f1830, there was no necessity of opening and receiving additional proof under any of the subsequent laws. The act of
t830 having expired, all rights under it were saved by the subsequent acts. No steps which had been taken were required
again to be taken.
Did the location of Governor Pope, under the act of Congress, affect the claim of Cloyes? On the 15th of June, 1832,
one thousand acres of land were granted, adjoining tbe town
of Little Rock, to the Territory of Arkansas, to be located by
the Governor. This selection was not made until the 30th of
January, 1833. Before the grant was made by Congress of
this tract, the right of Cloyes to a pre-emption bad not only
accrued, under the provisions of the act of 1830, but he had
proved his right, under the law, to the satisfaction of the register and receiver of the land office. He had, in fact, done
everything he could do to perfect this right. No fault or negligence can be charged to him.
." By the grant to Arkansas, Congress could not have-in
tended to impair vested rights. The grants of the thousand
acres and of the other tracts must be so construed as not to
interfere with the pre-emption of Cloyes."
From the citations above made in the original opinion in
this case, the following facts and principles of law ar6 too clear
to admit of doubt by any one:
1. That Cloyes's pre.emption to fractional quarter section
No. 2 was clearly established, by the judgment of the land
officers and of this court.
2. That the location of Governor Pope, being subsequent to
the right of Cloyes, could not affect, Under the circumstances,
that right, and that the conveyance was subject to it. This
appears, ly the certificate of the land office, by the uniform
VOL. XXII.

14

SUPREME COURT.
Ltle et al. v. State of Arkasas e al.

action of the G;overnment in all such cases, and the good faitl
which has characterized the action of Governrent, in protecting pre-emption rights, by giving time to protect such right,
where the Government officers had failed in doing their duty.
And in addition to these considerations, in the solemn declaration of this court, "that Congress could not have intended
to impair vested rights." And the court say, "the grants of
the thousand acres and of the other tracts must be so construed as not to interfere with the pre-emption of Cloyes."
This court say, "The Supreme Court of the State, in sustaining the demurrers and dismissing the bill, decided against
the pre-emption right claimed by the representatives of Cloyes;
and as we consider that a valid right as to the fractional quarter
on which his improvement was made, the judgment of the State
court was reversed."
"Now, the defendants demurred to the original bill, which
they had a right to do, and rest the case on the demurrer's
appearing on the face of the bill. But this court held Cloyes's
right valid, and consequently reversed, on this head, the judgment of the State court. And the cause is transmitted to the
State cou-t for further proceeding before it, or as it shall direct
on the defence set up in the answers of the defendants, that
they are l ona fde purchases of the whole or parts qf the fractional
sectionin, controversy, without notice, and that that court give
leave to amend the pleadings on both sides, if requested, that
the merits inay be fully presented and proved, as equity shall
requirc."
Novr, it is perfectly clear that nothing was transmitted under
the d'-ection of this court to the State court, except the latter
part of the sentence beginning, "and the cause is transmitted to
that court," &c. And that part relates wholly to the inquiry
whether the defendants were bona fide purchasers of the
whole or parts of the fractional section in controversy. And
for this purpose, leave was given to amend the pleadings.
-.f there is anything in this bill which afforded any pretence
to the State court to open the pleadings, and examine any
matters in the bill, exoept those specified in its close, it has
escapqd my r'otice.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

211

Lylle et al. v. State of Arkansas e al.

It is said in the bill, "the register and receiver were constituted, by the act, a tribunal to determine the right of those
who claimed pre-emptions under it. From their decision no
appeal was given. If, therefore, they acted within their powers, as sanctioned by the commissioner, and within the law,
the decision cannot be impeached on the ground of fraud or
unfirniess; it must be considered final."
The court here was speaking of its own powers of jurisdiction and investigation, and not the powers of any other triburnal. It was suppbsed that no superior court would willingly
permit its judicial powers to be subverted, new parties made,
new subjects introduced, and the whole proceedings reversed,
at the will of an inferior jurisdiction, without the exercise of
a controlling power.
This State record of Arkansas seems to have been a prolific
source of controversy, as its proportions have grown to about
a thousand pages, not including briefs and statements of facts.
It certainly must require some skill in legislation, to draw into
the State court so large an amount of business under the laws
of Congress. And it may become a. matter of public concern,
when such a mass of judicial action is not only thrown into
the State court, but new rules and principles of action are.
liable to be sanctioned, in disregard of thd laws of the United
States.
Without any authority, it does appear that the judgment
of the Supreme Court has been reversed by the Arkansas
court, its proceedings modified in disregard of its own judgments and opinions clearly expressed, and new rules of proceedings instituted and carried out; and this under an authority given to the Arkansas court to ascertain whether certain purchases had been made bona fide.
Cloyes, in his lifetime, by his own affidavit, and the affidavits
of others, made proof of his settlement on, and improvement
of, the above fractional quarter, according to the provisions
of the act, to the satisfaction of the register and receiver of
said land district, agreeably to the rules prescribed by the
Commissioner of the General Land Office; on the 20th May,
1831, IIartwell Boswell, the register, and John Redman, the

SUPREME COURT.
Lytle et.al. v. State of Arkasais et ad.

receiver, decided thatthe said Cloyes was entitled to the preemption right claimed. "On the same day, le applied to the
register to enter the northwest fractional quarter of section
two, containing thirty acres and eighty-eight hundredths of
an acre." But the register very properly decided that Oloyes
could ouily be permitted to enter the fraction on which his
improvement was made.
The Commissioner of the General Land Office, and the
register and receiver, declare they were satisfied with the
proof made in the case; but the Supreme Court of Arkansas
decided against the 'pre-emption right claimed by the representatives of Cloyes; and the Supreme Court of the United
States say, "as we consider that a valid right as to the fractional
quarter on which the improvement was made, the judgment,
of the State court is reversed."
How does this case now stand? It stands reversed upon
our own records by the Supreme Court of Arkansas, and by
no other power. A majority of this bench entered the judgment, as it now stands, in 1849. But, through the reforming
process, of a record of a thousand pages, not including notes'
and statements of facts, it has become a formidable pile, enough
to fill with despair the first claimant of the pre-emption right.
It is true, the cause was sent down for a special purpose,
every word of which I now copy:
"And the cause is transmitted to that court (the Supreme
Court of Arkansas) for further proceedings before.it, or as it
shall direct, on the defence set up in the answers of the defendants, that they are bona fide purchasers of the whole or
parts of the fractional sections in controversy, without notice,
and that that court give leave to amend the pleadings on bothsides, if requested, that the merits of the case may be fully presented and proved, as equity shall require.."
Several of the defendants alleged they were bona tide purchasers of a part or the whole of the fraction, without notice;

and the object in sending the case down was to enable persons
to show they were purchasers of this character. This did not
necessarily involve fraud. And this embraces the whole subject of inquiry.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

21t

Ltd ~ea v. State ofArkaws eaL

It would have been inconsistent for this court to say, we
consider the pre-emption claim by the representatives of
Cloyes as a valid right, as to the fractional quarter on which
his improvement was made, and on that ground to reverse the
judgment of the State court, and at the same time send the
case down, open to the charge of fraud and every conceivable
enormity. The object was to know who were purchasers
without notice. That this was the intention of the Supreme
Court, is palpable from the language of the entry.
The majority of the Supreme Court had full confidence in
the validity of Cloyes's claim, and consequently they reversed
the judgment of the State court; leaving the question open,
whether the defendants were purcbasors without notice. It
may be that this entry would have protected all the purchasers.
From the nature of pre-emption rights, it is presumed, a
person desirous of such a right is the first applicant. And
the proof of such a right, if sustained by the register and
receiver and the Commissioner of the Land Office, the proof
required, is deemed satisfactory. It is only where a fortunate
selection appears to be made, by the prospect of a city, or
some great local advantage is anticipated, that a contest arises
as to such a claim.
The officers of the land department, whose peculiar duty'it
was to protect the public rights, seemed to have discharged
their duty to the satisfaction of the Government. This was
also entirely satisfactory to a majority of the judges of this
court, with the single exception, that, from the answers, it
was probable that there may have been purchasers of this
right without notice. And from the evidence introduced, it
would seem to have been considered that any one who at any
time desirid to purchase, considered himself as having a right
to complain, although he had no means to make the purchase,
or had no desire to make it.
If I mistake not, evidence was heard from witnesses from
twenty to twenty-five years after the pre-emption right was
sanctioned by the Government. Such a course tends greatly
to embarrass land titles under the general land law. Every
ene krows that a man who endeavors to 'obtain a pre-emption,

SUPREME COURT.
Bondkis v. Skewood et a7must, in the nature of things, be a maii of limited means, and
ineapable of maintaining an expensive suit at law; and it
has always appeared to me the true policy to limit those
questions to the land department of the Government. At all
events, that tley should be limited to the Federal tribunals,
where, it may be presumed, the land department will have an
uniform administration.
As this case now stands, I think the judgment of the
Arkansas Supreme Court must be reversed on two grounds:
1. Because it has reversed the judgment of this court, entered by a majority of the members at December term, 1849,
in these words: "The Supreme Court of the State, in sustaining the demurrers and dismissing the bill, decided against the
pi'e-emption claimed by the representatives of Oloyes; and as
we consider that a valid right, as to tr6 fractional quarter on
which his improvement was made, the judgment of the State
court is reversed."
This is the judgment of this court as it now stands upon
our docket. And
2. The judgment of the State court must be reversed, because it wholly disregarded the directions of this court in
trying the issues transmitted to it.

GEORGE BONDIES, LATE MASTER AND PART OWNER OP THE STEAM.
BOAT KATE, INTERVENING, &C., APPELLANT, V. JAMES P. SHElWOOD, JOSEPH MOOLELLAND, AND BARNEY McG N~is, LIBELLANTS.
Where there was a conimetr for raiang a sunken vessel upon certain stipulation.
the party who raised the vessel cannot abandon it, and claim salvage in a covt
of admiralty.
This court does not now decide whether, in suits for salvage, the suit may be in
personam and in rem jointly. The question is still an open one.
Uor does it decide whether . the. maritime law of salvage applies to a vessel
engaged in the internal trade of a State, proceeding from a port in the same,
up a river wholly within the same.

