DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Honvid d A v. Gr mw

d A.

assignment to Hagan. The sale could not have been in any
way subject to the judicial mortgages of the bank, .norcould
it in any way affect the property purchased by the defendants.
Indeed, there can be no doubt that, after the appearance of the
bank in the concurso of the creditors, and its acquiescence with
them in fixing the terms-for the sale of the property of the insolvent, it must be taken as a waiver by the bank of all its rights
to pursue it for the payment of its judgments against Barrett,
the insolvent, and that it would look to the proceeds of its sale,
as the other creditors did, for the satisfaction of their respective
claims. Egerton v. Creditors, 2 Rob., 201; Saul v. Creditors,
7 N. S., 446, 447. Without pursuing the discussion further, we
have concluded that the bank, when it assigned its judgments
to the plaintiff, had no mortgage lien on the Whitehall plantation and slaves to transfer; that the language of the assignment, interpreted by the acknowledged acts of the bank in the
insolvency, cannot mean any such transfer, and that the judgment and sale under the partition suit barred the bank from
making such an assignment, and the plaintiff from any such
claim as he has made in his bill.
We direct the affirmance of the decree of the Circuit Court.

JOHN HOWLAND, SAMUEL MEEKER, JOHN CHADWICK,AND OLIVER
S. HALSTEAD, JUN., CLAIMANTS OF THE BARQUE GRIFFIN, HER
TACKLE, &C., APPELLANTS, v. JOHN GREENWAY AND GEORGE
S. DictsoN, LIBELLANTS.
The regulations at the port or Rio Janeiro require the master of a foreign vessel,
upon her arrival at the port, to deliver to the proper officer, upon his visit to
the vessel, his passport, mai.ifest, and list of passengers. He is also required,
at the end of the manifest, to make such declarations or statement for his
security, by adding any packages that may be omitted or exceeded in the
manifest, giving his reason for such omissions; no excuse will afterwards be
admitted for any omissions or error.
The regulations further declare that, when it is proved that the vessel brought
more goods than are specified or contained in the manifest, and not declared
by the master, such goods will be seized and divided among the seizors, the
master also paying into the national treasury a fine of one-half their value,
besides the customary dutics thereon.

S UPREMV[E COURT.
HowkMd tAZ v. Greeswea ed aL.
Where the master of a vessel omitted to enter a part of the cargo upon his manifest, and in consequence thereof the boxes were seized and confiscated, the
vessel and her owners were responsible to the consignees upon a libel filed in
the District Court of New York, where the contract of affreightment was made.
A.delivery into the custom-house under the order of the officers, and the payment of duties by the consignees, did not discharge the contract of the owners.
The delivery contemplated by the contract was a transfer of the property into
the power and possession of the consignees.
The evidence upon the amount of damages is not such as to justify this court in
reversing the decree of the court below.

Tmis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New York.
It was a libel filed in the District Court, sitting in admiralty,
against the barque Griffin and her owners, by Greenway and
Dickson, on a contract of affreightment. The circumstances
are stated in the opinion of the court.
The District'Court passed the following decree:
This cause having been heard on the exceptions to the commissioner's report, and argued by the advocate for .the respective partiesOn reading the report of George F. Betts, Esq,, United
States commissiQner, to whom the above matters were referred, by which there is reported due the libellant, on the bill of
lading referred to in the libel, the sum of sixty-nine hundred
and eleven dollars and fifty-two cents, on motion of Messrs.
Weeks & De Forrest, proctors for the libellaits, it is ordered
that the report be in all things confirmed, and that the libellants recover in this action against the barque Griffin, her
tackle, &c., the amount reported due, with interest thereon
from the date of the report, together with their costs to- be
taxed, and that the said barque, her tackle, &c., be condemned
therefor. And on like motion it is further ordered, that out
of the proceeds of the stipulations of the claimants for cost
and value, when paid into the registry of this court, the clerk
of this court pay to the libellants or their proctor the amount
reported due, together with their taxed costs. And on like
motion of Messrs. Weeks & De Forrest, proctors for the libellants, it is further ordered, that unless an appeal be taken to

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Hooka d 4aZ v. Giwmw

el Al

this decree, with the time limited and prescribed by the rules
and practice of this court, that on payment into 'the registry
of the court of the amount of the stipulations for costs and
value, that the clerk distribute the proceeds in satisfaction of
this decree.
This decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court, and the
owners of the barque appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Halstead for the appellants, and by
Mr. Gifford for the appellees, upon which side there was also
a brief filed by Mr. De Forrest.
The bill of lading stated that the boxes were to be' delivered
at the ship's tackles to Greenway & Co., at Rio de Janeiro, or
their assigns. Abranches was in Rio, a partner in a commercial house there, who purchased the goods. Being examined
as a witness, he said that he knows that the said one hundred
and thirty-two boxes did form part of the "Griffin's" cargo,
as he, witness, saw them when discharged from the vessel
into the custom-house; that said boxes contained furniture,
and were addressed to his house, and each package bearing
the mark of the firm, M. 0. Abranches & Co., and the counter.
mark G. & Co., and were also numbered.
The counsel for the appellants insisted that the testimony
shows that the omission of the boxes in the open manifest was
observed by Greenway & Co., in time to supply the omission,
and avoid all difficulty; and (so far as it may have any bearing
upon a view of the whole case) that the same is true in reference to Abranches & Co. The consignees failed to notify the
master of the omission. It could then have been supplied by
the master, and all difficulty avoided. The supplying it then
would be the same in eftect as if it had been supplied by the
master before delivering the manifests to the custom-house
officers. On this open manifest the master could then have
supplied the omission. It was on this only that he could
have ever before supplied it. The other was sealed. The
omission by the consignees, after discovering the error in time
to have it corrected, to notify the master of it was a gross
t'ailure of duty as consignees, and is proof of intended fraud.

SUPREMIE COURT
Hk~aA et &- v. Gremtwayj dt -aL

The boxes were sold by order of the custom-house.
We are nowhere told when and how the omission first came.
to the knowledge of the custom-house, nor when the goods
were seized, nor when they were sold.
They were purchased by Abranches & Co. We are nowhere
told how they were sold, whether all in a lump at one bidding,
or how; and are nowhere told the amount of Abranches's bid
on which they were struck off to him.
The end was, that the consignees refused to pay the master
any freight at all collected by them, on any of the cargo; and
besides that, have brought this libel to the whole value of the
one hundred and thirty-two boxes.
What could more strongly give the character of fraud to
the omission of the consignees to notify the master of the
omission at the time when it could have been supplied by.
him?
One other fact in this connection. The consignment to
Greenway & Co. was changed.
As to the value of the goods at Rio, the only evidence is,
the answer of Magalhaen, the shipping clerk and the answer
of Abranches.
There was a regular invoice of the goods sent to Greenway
& Co.; that invoice containedl a list of the goods and invoice
price.
We sqbmit that this testimony of the value was insucient.
It 4as, in the nature of things, impossible for us to give any
proof whatever of the value. The chairs and furniture were
enclosed in boxes; how many boxes contained chairs, and
what kind of chairs; and how many contained tables, and
what kind; and'how many other furniture, and what kind, it
was impossible for us to show. The boxes contained 2,613
cubic feet, freight fifteen cents per foot. A space eighteen
feet square by eight feet high would contain 2,592 cubic feet,
within twenty-one feet of the cubic feet in these boxes. How
could chairs and furniture, that could be in these boxes, be
worth $5,000 or $6,000? There is no evidence that the
chairs and furniture contained in the boxes were worth that.
Abranches says the boxes were seized, &c. But in his answer to

DECEMBER" TERM, 1859.
How/and el al. v. GreentM

495

e al.

the fifteenth interrogatory he says the contents of the baxes
were purchased, &c.; and in his answer to the sixteenth interrogatory he says the value of the contents of the cases
(boxes) was, &c. And Magalhaen, in his said answer to interrogatory sixteen, "value of the contents of the boxes."
The invoice, spoken of by this witness, in his said answer, and
by Edward T. Davison, in his deposition, and by Abranches,
was not put in evidence.
As to damages. This libel is in a cause of contract; and
the libel prays damages for the non-delivery of the goods, near
end of libel. The aetual damage to the libellants is the meas
ure of damages to be awarded.
If they had bought the boxes at the sale, and then delivered
them to Abranches, the only damage they would have sustained would be the amount they bid'them off at, and that
amount reduced by the amount of freight on the boxes, for
they paid no frieght on them.
But they were struck off to Abranches. This fact proves
that there was an understanding between them. It is-not
supposable that Greenway & Co. would permit Abranches to
get the boxes at what they might be struck off for at such a
kind of sale, and hold them without paying Greenway & Co.
the cost of the goods, (if they were bought in New York with
the money of Greenway & Co.,) less the amount paid by
Abrancbes at the sale by the custom-house. So that, in either
of those cases, the damage to Greenway & Co. would be the
amount given to get the goods from the custom-house by buying them at such a sale. Hence, the care taken not to let it
appear what the boxes were bought for at the sale.
If the chairs and furniture were bought in New York with
the money of the Ab'ranches, the effect would be that Greenway & Co. would lose nothing but commissions.
If the libellants 'have presented their case in such a way
that they cannot recover on the only proper ground on which
a recovery can be had, and if they have not given to the court
the means of ascertaining what should be recovered on that
proper ground, they cannot recover afbything.
By the 155th article it is provided, that wheh it is found

SUPREME COURT.
Hwknu dt a?. v. Guenawj dt al.

that the vessel brought more goods than is specified or con
tained in the manifest, and not declared by the captain, such
goods will be seized and divided among the seizors, &c. How
did it happen that the boxes were not opened by the seizors,
to see what was to be divided among them, and that the
boxes and contents were sold, without opening the boxes, and
sold all to one man, and, as we have a right to say from the
testimony, sold at one bidding? It is proof of the fraud, before stated, at the beginning, and of collusion between the
consignees and the custom-house offcers, and (if it were
necessary to say so) proof that Abranches was a party to the
collusion.
The court, we trust, will not permit these consignees to
make a speculation out of a case such as the testimony shows
this to be, and where no fraud could have been intended, the
boxes and every article of cargo being actually delivered into
the custom-house.
Again, the charge in thle libel, that -the said boxes or goods
were confiscated by the Brazilian Government to its use, is
wholly unsustained. There is, no evidence that they were
subject to such confiscation, and if they were so subject, there
is no proper evidence of any act of confiscation by the said
Government.
The laws of the port of Rio do not authorize the seizure of
goods after they have been discharged into the custom-house
for omission of entry in the manifest.
The goods were bought y Leland & Davison, of N$ew
York, for account of Abranches & Co., and were marked to
Abranches & Co., and the duties were to be paid by Abranches
& Co., as is shown by their actually paying a portion of the
duties, and they got the goods by paying what they were
struck off to them for. That amount, less the freight and
duties, (for he says, in the answer to the same interrogatory,
that the duties which had been paid were afterwards returned,
and it is clear that no freight was paid,) would be all the
damage they could have suffered.
In this view, we submit that Abranches & Co. were the
persons to bring an action, and rnot Greenway & Co.

DECEMBER TERMf, 1859.
Howland et al. v. Greenway et al.

The counsel for the appellees made his points partly dependent upon the law, and partly upon the facts, as they are
taken from the brief of Mr. De Forrest.
. The ship was bound by the bill of lading to deliver the
goods to the consignees.
The general rule is, that the delivery must be to the consignee in person; and this rule is always applicable, unless
some other mode of delivery is sanctioned by the usage ot
trade or express contract.
Angell on Carriers, sees. 297, 298.
1 Parsons Mar. Law, p. 153.
3 Comstock, 825, Price v. Powell, et cases cited.
17 Wendell, 805, Gibson v. Culver.
I-. In the case of sea-going vessels, the usages of most ports
make a delivery on the wharf, with reasonable notice to the
consignee, a sufficient delivery. If the consignee cannot be
found, or declines to receive the property, the carrier is not
justified in leaving it on the wharf, even after notice. It is
his duty in such a case to place it in a proper and safe place,
where the consignee can obtain it.
15 Johnson, 42, Ostrander v. Brown.
1 Denio, 45, Fisk v. Nevton.
Angell-on Carriers, sec. 800.
1 Pars. Mar. Law, p. 155, note.
II. In the present case, the goods were never delivered to
the consignees.
1. It does not appear that Greenway & Co. ever received
notic6efrom the master that the goods were being discharged,
or that they were ever invited to receive them. On the contrary, the testimony shows that the goods were landed on the
custom-house wharf, and deposited in the custom-house, and
were there seized before any attempt was made by the master
to make delivery, and while they were still in the custody of
the officers.
2. It does not appear that Greenway & Co. had any information from any quarter that the goods were being discharged.
The first notice given to them was that of the seizure.
8. The partial payment of the duties was made by Abranches
2."
VOL. XXII.

SUPREME COTTRT.
Hfowland et al. v. Greenway el al.

& Co., who had agreed with Greenway & Co. to pay the invoice cost, with freight, commissions, and duties, and under
the expectation that no obstacle was in the way of the delivery
of the goods.
This prepayment, in anticipation of an expected delivery,
was certainly no waiver of the right to demand it, and in any
event the acts of Abranches cannot prejudice the rights of
Greenway & Co.
4. The proceedings taken by the master to obtain the release of the goods made it very manifest that he did not at
that time think of clarging Greenway & Co. with the consequences of his neglect, or of claiming that the delivery had
been consummated.
5. Finally, the witnesses all concur in asserting that the
goods were never delivered to Greenway & Co. The onus of
showing the contrary is on the ship.
IV. The clause in the bill of lading, stating that the goods
were "to be delivered at the ship's tackles," does not vary the
obligation of the carrier to make such a delivery as shall give
to the consignee the actual possession of the property.
1. The object of this clause is to indemnify the vessel
against possible expenses incurred beyond the hip's side, and
before actual delivery to the consignee-e. g., lighterage, expenses of permits to discharge, wharfage, &c.
2. A deposit on the wharf, alongside the ship, certainly
would not be a good delivery, without notice.
The clause in question cannot control the explicit contract
to deliver to the consignees.
V. The non-delivery, of the goods not having been occasioned by the expected perils; the ship and owners are clearly
liable for their value.
1. Even if the seizure had been the arbitrary and merely
capricious act of the Brazilian Government, the failure to
deliver would not have been excused.
1 Campbell, 451, Gosling v. Higgins.
10 Q. B. R., 517, Spencer v. Chadwick.
10 Ad. and Ell., N. S., S. C.
4 Mann and G., 954, Evans v. Hatton.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Howhand eta. v. Greenway et aZ.

2. But the seizure was directly occasioned by the culpable
neglect and omission of the master. He first omitted to make
up a correct manifest at the port of starting; and though
having all the leisure of a long voyage -to review his papers,
and full opportunity on his arrival at Rio to make known the
omissions, he neglecta to do so, and thus insures the seizure
and confiscation.
VI. Even if the goods had come into the possession of
Greenway & Co., the ship would not have discharged herself.
Her duty was to deliver possession clear of all claims and
liens incurred by the fault of her master and owners. Anything short of this would not have been the delivery contracted
for under the bill of lading.
VYE The commissioner did not err in his computation of
the damages.
The value of the property at Rio was sworn by Abranches
to be $6,000, and the invoice value at New York was stated
by Magalhaen to be between $5,000 and $6,000, which, witb
the addition of freight, &c., harmonizes the testimony.
The claimants had the opportunity of cross-examining Mr.
Davison, who purchased the goods in New York, but they
deliberately refrained from doing so.
VIII. This court will not on this hearing consider any exception as to the admissibility of any of the depositions or
exhibits.
IX. The decree of the Circuit Court should be affirmed,
with costs.
ir. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a libel, in the District Court of the United States
for the southern district of New York, against the barque
Griffin and her owners, on a contract of affreightment by the
appellees. The libel stated, that in November, 1852, at New
York, there was shipped on that barque, of which the appellants are owners, one hundred and thirty-two boxes of chairs
and furniture, to be delivered at the ship's tackles at the port
of Rio de Janeiro, to the appellees, according to the terms of
a bill of lading. That the regulations of the port of Rio de

SUPREME COURT.
HaWand et AZ v. Genway dt &-

Janeiro require the owner or master of a vessel arriving there,
to submit to the officers of the customs a .manifest of the
cargo on board; and that cargo not mentioned in the manifest
cannot be passed through the custom-house, but is liable to
seizure and confiscation for that omission.
That the master of the barque omitted to enter the said consignment on the manifest rendered by him on his arrival, and
in consequence the boxes were seized and confiscated, and so
were lost to the consignees. The libellees answer that the
gbods referred to in the libel were discharged in accordance to
the bill of lading, under the laws and regulations of the port,
and under the order of the proper Government officers, and
went into the' custom-house under the direction of the libellants, they paying the duties thereon.
That after the delivery at; the ship's tackles of the said shipc
ment, the consignees became responsible for their safety; and
that they were not confiscated or forfeited to the Governnbt,
nor abandoned by the consignees to the owners of the ship.
Upon the pleadings and proofs, a decree was rendered against
the libellees in the District Court, which was affirmed in the
Circuit Court, on appeal.
It appears from the testimony that itis the duty of a master
of a foreign vessel, upon her arrival at the port of Rio de
Janeiro, to deliver to the proper officer, (Guarda Mor,) upon
his visit to the vessel, his passport, manifest, and list of passengers. He is required, "at the end of the manifest," to
make such "declarations or statement for his security by adding any packages that may be omitted or exceeded in his
manifest, giving his reason for such omissions; no excuse will
afterwards be admitted for any omissions or error."
That, "when it is proved that the vessel brought more
goods than are specified or contained in the manifest, and not
declared by the master, such goods will be seized, and divided
among the seizors, the master also paying into the national
treasury a fine of one-half their value, besides the customary
duties thereon." It further appears, that the Griffin reached
the port of Rio de Janeiro in January, 1853, and that her master rendered her passport, .manifest, and list of passengers,

DECEMBER TERM, 1869
'Howlandd aZ. v." Geenway d aL

and was required to make any statement or declaration in
addition, and informed that no other opportunity would be
afforded to him. The master answered, that he had no addition
to make or declaration to record. The goods were discharged
according to the custom of the port, under the direction and
orders of the revenue officers, into the custom-house, and
while there, and before the entry had been completed, they
were seized and confiscated under the regulation before
stated. In a petition by the master to the Brazilian Government for a remission of the forfeiture and penalty he had incurred, he says: "That on the last voyage of the vessel a
seizure was made of one hundred and thirty-two packages of
furniture, more or less, on the ground that they werq not
entered in the manifest, and, although the petitioner adrnowledges that the custom-house officers have acted according to
the instructions of the department, still there are reasons of
equity which render this seizure contrary to law."
These reasons were, that the Brazilian consul at New York
was a novice in his office, and had failed to give him, accurate
information, and had approved of a manifest full of mistakes;
and that the master had acted in good faith, and was obviously
free from" any suspicion of a design to defraud the revenue.
This petition was referred to the director. general of the
revenue, who returned for answer: "That taking into consideration the quantity of the packages seized, (180 cases,) and
the quality of the goods therein contained; (furniture,) and
more particularly the circumstances which occurred before the
seizure thereof, (the packages having been landed,' and.the
duties paid,) there is no plausible reason to ascribe to fraud
or bad faith the oinissions of the said packages in the manifest
of the vessel in which they were imported; but, on the other
hand, the circumstance of the proof of fraud, or even of its
presumption, is not essential in order to render the seizure a
legal one' in the present hypothesis. It is expressed in the
case before mentioned, in the articles 155, 156, of the general
regulations of the 22d June, 1836, that the simple fact of finding either more or less packages is punishable with the penalties therein decreed; and- the seizure to which the petition

SUPREME COURT.
Howlana e al. v. Greenway d al.

refers having been made and adjudged in conformity with the
provisions of the said article 155, I am of opinion that the
decision of the custom-house ought to be confirmed." The
decree was entered accordingly. The testimony shows that
the packages were sold by the inspector of the customs as forfeited, and that the consignees sustained a total loss. There
is no testimony to show that they contributed to produce this
result. It was the duty of the master of the barque to acquaint
himself with the laws of the country with which he was trading,
and to conform his conduct to those laws. He cannot defend
himself under asserted ignorance, or erroneous information on
the subject. It is the habit of every nation to construe and
apply their revenue and navigation laws with exactness, and
without much consideration for the hardship of individual
cases. The magnitude and variety of the interests depending
upon their efficient administration compel to this, and every
ship-master engaged in a foreign trade must take notice of
them.
The Vixen, 1 Dod., 145; the Adams, Edwards, 810. In
the case before us, the master was informed of his duties upon
his arrival at the port of destination by the officers of the customs, and his embarrassment and loss can be attributed to
nothing but his inattention. The question arises, whether the
oippellants are responsible for the miscarriage of their master
and agent. Their contract is -an absolute one to deliver the
cargo safely, the perils of the sea only excepted. Under such
a contract, nothing will excuse them for a non-performance,
except they have been prevented by some one of those perils,
the act of the libellants, or the law of their country. N~o exception of a private nature, which is not contained in the contract itself, can be engrafted upon it by implication as an
excuse for its non-performance. Atkinson v. Ritchie, 10 East.,
588. In Spencer v. Chadwick, 10 Q. B. R., 516, the defendants pleaded, "that the ship, in the course of her voyage to
London, called at Cadiz; and while there, the goods were
lawfully taken out of the ship by the officers of the customs
on a charge of being contraband under the laws of Spain,
without default on the part of the officers of the ship. The

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

503

lilbournm et al. v. State Savings Institution of St. Louis.

court affirm the rule, that when a party, by his own contract,
creates a duty or charge upon himself, he is bound to make it
good, if he may, notwithstanding any accident by inevitable
necessity, because he might have provided against it by his
contract." It was for the libellees to furnish the evidence to
discharge themselves for th-e failure to perform their contract.
They insist that the delivery of the cargo into the customhouse under the order of the officers, and the payment of
duties by the consignees, was a right delivery, and that the
consignees are responsible for their safety afterward. We do
not concur in this opinion. The delivery contemplated by
the contract was a transfer of the property into the power and
possession of the consignees. The surrender of possession by
the master must be attended with no fact to impair the title
or affect the peaceful enjoyment of the property. The failure
to enter the property on the manifest was a cause of confiscation from the event, and rendered nugatory every effort subsequently to discharge the liability of the ship and owners.
The appellants complain that the proof does not support the
decree in respect of the damage assessed. One witness testifies to the market value of the packages in Rio de Janeiro,
and another approximates their cost in New York, and upon
this testimony the assessment was made. It was competent
to the appellants to introduce testimony in the Circuit Court,
or in this court, upon that subject, but none has been submitted.
We should not be justified in concluding the decree to be
erroneous under the circumstances.
Decree affirmed.

EDWARD KILBOURNE AND OTHERS V. THE STATE SAVINGS INSTITUTION OF ST. LoUIS, IN THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
Where no question was raised upon the trial of the case in the court below forthe consideration- of this court, nor did the plaintiff in error, by counsel or
otherwise, make one here, the judgment will be affirmed with cost and in.
terest at the rate of ten per cent. per anuum.

