SUPREME COURT.
Bank of.Wsburgh v. Ned2

al.

It is admitted that the original grant of the title in form,
which was in the hands of the claimants, has been altered so
as to bear date the 12th February, instead of the 12th June,
1846. No explanation was given of the alteration, though it
was apparent on the face of the paper.
The genuineness of the signature of the Governor, Pio Pico,
to the certificate of the approval of the Departmental Assembly, was doubted by the board of commissioners.
The board say, after alluding to the alteration of the date of
the grant, "there are many things connected with the claim
which, under the conclusion at which the commission has
arrived, were not altogether satisfactory. The time when the
grant was made, only a few days before the Americans took
possession -of the country, the evident and palpable attempt to
alter the date so as to make it appear several months anterior
to the time when it was issued, and the manifest want of similarity in the signatures of Pio Pico to the papers of approval,
with the usual mode of signing his name, are circumstances
which greatly detract from the good faith of the claim. The
evidence, however, they say, makes out a prima facie case,
which, in the absence of any rebutting testimony, entitles the
petitioners to a decree of confirmation."
The court is of opinion that, in consideration of the doubtful character of the claim, and entire want of any merits upon
the testimony, the decree of the court below should be reversed, and the case remitted for further evidence and examination.

THE BANK OP PITTSBURGH, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOHN S.
NEAL AND REUBEN E. NEAL.
A commercial house sent to a correspondent eight bills of exchange, four purporting to be the first and the other four the second of exchange, and the
whole eight accepted on their face by that commercial house, and each of the
four made payable to the order of their correspondent, but in blank as to the
names of the drawers, and the address of the drawees, and as to date and
amount and time and place of payment.
The correspondent filled up and had discounted the four which were the first of
exchange, which were not invo !ed in the present suit.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

97

Bank of -itlhirbf v. Neal et al.
Two of the four of the second of exchange were filled up, varying from the
others, not only in dates and amounts, but also as to time and place of payment.
These bills were discounted by a bank without any knowledge whatever that

either had been perfected and filled up by the prayee without authority, or of
the circumstances under which they had been intrusted to his care, unless the
words "second of exchan-ge, first unpaid," can be held to have that import.
The effect of these words was a question of law, and not of fact for the jury.
The bills described above were not parts ofsets of bills of exchange. They were
perfected, filled up, and negotiated, by the correspondent of the defendants, to
whom the blank acceptances had been intrusted as single bills of exchange;
and for the act of their correspondent, in that behalf, the defendants are responsible to a bona fide holder for value, without notice that the acts were
performed without authority.

The case falls within the rule, that where one of two innocent parties-must suffer,
through the fraud or negligence of a third party, the loss shall fall upon him
who gave the credit.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Indiana.
It was an action brought by the bank upon two bills of
exchange, one dated on the 18th of August, 1857, at Pittsburgh, drawn by L. 0. Reynolds & Son upon J. S. & R.
E. Neal, at Madison, Indiana, requesting theni to pay, four
months after date of this second of exchange, (first unpaid,) to
the order of L. 0. Reynolds, at the Ohio Life Insurance and
Trust Company, at Cincinnati, in the State of Ohio, two
thousand one hundred and sixty-eight dollars. Reynolds endorsed this bill to L. Wilmarth & Co., who endorsed it to the
bank. The bill was accepted by J. S. & R. E. Neal.
The other bill sued upon was similar in all its circumstances, except that it was dated on the 1st of August, 1857,
payable four months after the date of this second of exchange,
(first unpaid,) for thirteen hundred and fifty dollars. It was
endorsed and accepted like the other.
In order to present a distinct view of the transactions which
led to this suit and the nature of the defence, it seems necessary to state particularly all the bills mentioned in the proceedings, designating each bill by a letter, which is the reporter's mark, and used for easy reference.
Iu June, 1857, J. S. & R. E. Neal, residents of Madison,
VOL. XXI1.

7

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of PiUsburghv.

waZ el at.

Indiana, for the purpose of raising money, delivered to L. 0.
Reynolds, of Pittsburgh, the four following bills, viz:
Exchange for $-.
of this first of exchange, (second unpaid,)
dollars, value received,
pay to the order of L. 0. Reynolds without any relief from 'valuation or appraisement laws.
To-.
Accepted: J. S. & R. E. NEAL.
(This bill we will call A.)
-after

Exchange for

$-.

of this first of exchange, (second unpaid,)
dollars, value received.
pay to the order of L. 0. Reynolds without any relief from valuation or appraisement laws.
-.
To
Accepted: J. S. & R. E. NEAL.
(This bill we will call B.)
-after

-

Exchange for $-.
after of this second of exchange, (first unpaid,)
dollars, value received,
pay to the order of L. 0. Reynolds without any relief from valuation or appraisement laws.
To-.
Accepted: J. S. & R. E. NEAL.
(This bill we will call C.)
Exchange for $-.
- after of this second of exchange, (first unpaid,)
dollars, value received,
pay to the order of L. 0. Reynolds without any relief from valuation or appraisement laws.
To-.
Accepted: J. S. & R. E. NEAL.
(This bill we will call D.)
With these bills, instructions were sent to Reynolds to have
theni filled up for sums not less than $1,500, nrr more than
$3,006 each, to have them discounted at Pittsburgh, and remit the proceeds to J. S. & R. E. Neal, at Madison, Indiana.
In July, 1857, four other bills like the preceding were sent
These last bills were sent to Reynolds at his
to Reynolds

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Bank of litburghv. Neal e al.

request, and intended for his use, as accommodation acceptances of the Neals.
These bills we -will call E, F, G, H.
A was filled up by Reynolds as follows: Date, July lst;.
amount, $1,965; time, four months; drawers, L. 0. Reynolds
& Son; drawees, J. S. & R. E. Neal. Thus filled up, it
was negotiated by Reynolds to the Mechanics' Bank of Pitts.
burgh. Reynolds failed to remit the proceeds according to
instructions. When the paper matured, the defendants, as
acceptors, paid it.
B was filled up as follows: Date, Jtly 10th; time, four
months; amount, $2,085; drawers, L. 0. Reynolds & Son;
drawees, J. S. & R. E. Neal. Thus filled up, it was negotiated
by Reynolds to the Merchants and Manufacturers' Bank of
Piftsburgh. The proceeds of this bill were remitted by
Reynolds to the defendants. Before the commencement of
this suit, the Merchants and Manufacturers' Bank, as holder
and owner of the bill, recovered judgment on it against the
acceptor in the Jefferson Circuit Court of the State of Indiana.
C and D were for the present retained by Reynolds in his own
possession.
E, being similar to A, was filled up as follows: Date, July
30th; time, four months; amount, $2,450; drawers, L. 0.
Reynolds & .Son; drawees, J. S. & R. E. Neal. Thus filled
up, it was negotiated by Reynolds to the Merchants and Man-'
ufacturers' Bank of Pittsburgh, Reynolds retaining the, proceeds. The holders of this bill brought suit against the. defe.ild-.
ants, as acceptors, in the Jefferson Circuit Court, Indiana, which
action was still pending when the pleas in this case were filed.
F, being similar to B, was filled up by Reynolds as follows:
Date. July 24th; time, four months; amount, $2,750; drawers,
L. 0. Reynolds & Son; drawees, J. S. & R. E. Neal. Thus
filled up, it was negotiated by Reynolds to the Citizens' Bank
of Pittsburgh, Reynolds retaining the proceeds. John Black
& Co. became the holders, and after its maturity, and before
the commencement of this suit, they recovered judgment
against the acceptors of the bill for its full amount in the
Jefrerson Circuit Court of [nfdiana.

100

SURPREME COURT.
Bank of Pittsburgh v. INe

et al.

Thus the bills A, B, E, F, being the first of exchange, (second unpaid,) are accounted for. What became of G and a,
the record did not show. Lpt us now account for C and D.
C was filled up as follows: Date, August 1st; time, fiur"
months; amount, $1,350; deawers and drawees, as above.
D was filled up as follows: Date, August 18th; time, four
months; amount, $2,168; same drawers and drawees. These
bills were both negotiated to the Bank of Pittsburgh, and were
the ones sued on in this case. It will be observed that they
were both second of exchange, (first unpaid,) and that the
sums of money did not correspond in amount with any of
those for which the first of exchange had been filled up, nor
in date, time, or place of payment.
There were four counts in the declaration, and eight pleas,
which were all demurred to except the plea of the general
issue. It is not necessary to state these pleadings, because
they were only intended to raise the questions of law which
arise from the statement of facts given above. The court
overrul'd the plaintifls' demurrers, so -that judgment went for
the defendant; and upon this ruling upon the demurrers, the
case was brought up by the plaintiff to this court.

It was argued by Mr. Stanton, upon a brief filed by himself
and.Mr. Waller, for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Thompson, upon a brief filed by himself and Mr. Dunn, for the defendants.
Mr. Stanton's points were the following:
1. That the acceptance of the bills held by the bank for value,
binds the acceptors. Whether the bills held by the bank were
seconds, or any other numberin any real or imaginary series
of bills, they were accepted, and the acceptors bound themselves
thereby to pay the holder the sum thereiu specified. If the
acceptor meant to be bound only on one of the set, be should
have accepted that one. The holder was not bound to make
any inquiry or take any notice of the others.
16 Peters, 205.
Chitty on Bills, 155.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

101

Bank of Pittsburgh v. Neal et al.

Holdsworth v. Hunter, 10 B. and C., 444.
Story on Bills, see. 226.
Byles on Bills, 293, 294.
2r. The words -"second of exchange, first unpaid," were
directions given by the drawer to. the acceptors, to notify
them of the series, and put the acceptors on their guard as to
the extent of acceptance. But their own acceptance constitutes
the contract of the acceptors, and by it they bound themselves
to pay the holder of that identical paper the sum specified
therein,
Wells v. Whitehead, 15 Wend., 527.
Downes v. Church, 13 Peters, 205.
"The bona fide holder of any one of the set, ifaccepted, might
recover the amount of the acceptor."
Story on Bills, sec. 226.
Byles on Bills, 310.
Chitty on Bills, 155.
Holdsworth v. Hunter, 10 B. and C*, 444.
3. There were no firsts of the bills held by the Bank of
Pittsburgh. The agent to whom they were delivered in
blank made a distinct bill of each blank; and each being
accepted, the acceptors are chargeable to any bona fide bolder
in whose possession they might come.
The counsel for the defendant in error contended, in the first
place, that this bill ought to be denominated a forgery, or at
least a fraud, on defendants, falling short of the crime of forgery; and that the plaintiff could not claim the benefit of the
rule which estopped the defendant from denying the bill for
this reason: that the act of the party giving the credit must
be such as is reasonably calculated to deceive-that the party
claiming the protection of this principle must, himself, have
acted with reasonable circumspection, and must have been
subjected to the loss, notwithstanding the use of such reasonable circumspection.
The principle in question is, we think, accurately expressed
in a recent case in the English Exchequer, Baker v. Sterne, 25
E. L. and E., 502. Pollock, 0. B., citing and illustrating this
sunto case of Young v. Grote, say§: "I should mvself prefer to

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of Pitburghv. Yeal e al.

put it thus: that where a man issues .a document of that sort;
(a bill of exchange or check,) which may be so filled up, the
authority is to be judged of, as far as the bulk of mankind is
concerned, by that paper itself, and not by some other private
instruction. It may, however, be ranged with a class of cases
perfectly familiar, which we all know to be applicable to a
great many other subjects as well as bills of exchange, namely:
that where one man by his negligence has enabled another to
practice a fraud on a third party, which the third party las no
means of defeating whatever, the consequence of that m 4st be
visited upon the individual who enables the other to pi aotice
the fraud."
The same principle, designated as estoppel eo nomine, i-4 defined as follows, by Lord Denman, in Pickard v. Sears, t6 Ad.
and Ell., 469; S. C., 33; E. C. L., 115: ." The rule of law is clear,
that where one by his words or conduct wilfully causes another
to believe in the existence of a certain state of things, and induces him to act on that belief, so as to alter his own, previous
position, the former is concluded from averring against the
latter a different state of things as existing at the same time."
This language was not used with any special reference to com
mercial paper. It is merely quoted as comprising the elements
of an estoppel in pais, as-that doctrine has grown up, in modern jurisprudence, under the influence of equity.
In 2 Smith's Leading Cases, 4 'Am. ed., Hare v. Wallace,
571, the editors, in speaking of the fact that an acceptor is
estopped to deny the genuineness of the bill as originally
drawn, say that this estoppel "is marked by much of the
naked severity of circumstance and application which marked
estoppels at common law." We cannot, however, see any
peculiarity that distinguishes this, in principle, from other
cases of estoppel in pais, or why it should be said to be marked
with "naked severity." The drawee is reasonably presumed
to know the handwriting of the drawer, who is his immediate
correspondent. He should not pay the bill without being satisfied that it is genuine. If he does pay, and the draft proves
,t firgery, he is guilty of negligence, and for that reason the
law will not gran.t him recovery.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

103

Bank of Pilsburghv. NeaZ etaZ.

He slFould not accept, without being satisfied that the drawer
is competent to draw, and that his signature is genuine. By
the act of accepting, he admits these things. Between a casual
purchaser, in market, of the bill, and the drawer, there is no
privity. They are probably strangers to each other, and in
case of a foreign bill, residents of different States. Such purchaser, then, may reasonably act upon the faith of the admission implied in the acceptance;- and as' against him, the
acceptqr should not be allowed to say that the daft was
forged. But this reason would cease in cases where the
holder is privy to the fraud or affected with notice of it, and
in such case there is no estoppel.
Bank of Commerce v. Union Bank, 3 Corns.. 230.
Such estoppel, then, falls plainly within the ordinary principle of estoppels in pais, without resorting to any supposed
peculiaritj of the commercial law.
We submit, then, as a clear deduction from the authorities,
that if the officers of the Bank of Pittsburgh, in purchasing
this paper, failed t6 use ordinary and reasonable prudence,
and if the paper, as intriusted by the defendants to Reynolds,
was not' in such condition or of such kind as to enable Reynolds to practice the fraud, notwithstanding the exercise of
ordinary and reasonable prudence by th'e plaintiff, then the
defendants are not concluded by their acceptance.,
Let us then examine the facts of this case in the light of
these prin6iples.
(This part of the argument is necessarily omitted.).
It is urged, liowever, that the drawee should accept but one
part of a bill drawn in a set, and that that part, when so accepted, becomes the bill; that any third person seeing it has
a right to presume it to be the only accepted part, and is
justified in purchasing it without inquiring after the other
parts; that by accepting all the parts, the. drawee becomes
liable as upon so many different bills.
The following authorities are cited as tending to establish
this position:
Chitty on Bills, 11 Am., from 9 London ed., 155,156
Byles on Bills, side pages 310, 311.

SUPREME COURT.
Bank oJ 1'ittoburgh v.Xreal et a&.

Story on Bills, sec. 226.
IHoldsworth r. Hunter, supra.
Wells r. Whitehead, 15 Wend., 527.
Downes r. Church, 13 ]Pet., 205.
Each of the above text books contains a dictum seeming tc

favor the proposition, but neither of the three cases cited has
any tendency to sustain it. If these dicta inl the text books
are to be understood as anything stronger than mere recommendation, we submit that they are unsustained by authority;
that they are inconsistent with the theory of this species of
commercial paper, and at variance with general commercial
usage.
The cbunsel then examined these authorities, and concluded
with the following summary:
Chitty deduces it as an inference from an untenable legal
proposition; Story, rejecting the proposition, perpetuates the
inference; Byles repeats it on the authority of Holdsworth v.
Hunter, an authority that condemns it; and all of them put it
its matter of recommendation and caution, rather than peremptory law:
The remaining part of the argument of the counsel for the
defendant is omitted for want of room.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Indiana. All of the questions pro.
sented in this case arise upon the pleadings and the facts therein disclosed. It was an action of assumpsit, brought by the
plaintiff in error as the holder of two certain bills of exchange,
against the defendants as the acceptors. An amendment to
the declaration was filed after the suit was commenced. As
now exhibited in the transcript, it contains four counts. Two
of the counts were drawn up on the respective bills of exchange, and are in-the usual form of declaring in suits, by the
holder of a bill of exchange against the acceptor. Those contained in the amendment are special in form, setting forth the
• ircumistances under which the respective bills of exchange
were drawn, accepted, and negotiated, and averring that these

DECEMBER TERM, '1859.
Bank of Pittsburghv. Neal

105

al.

acts were subsequently ratified by the defendants. To the
merits of the controversy the defendants pleaded the general
issue, and filed seven special pleas in bar of the action. Demurrers were filed by the plaintiff to each of the special pleas,
which were duly joined by the defendants, and after the hearing, the court overruled all of the demurrers. Those filed to
the pleas responsive to the first and second counts were overruled upon the ground that the pleas were sutfficient, and
constituted a good bar to the action; but those filed to the
fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth pleas were overruled, upon
the ground that the third and fourth counts, to which those
pleas exclusively applied, were each insuficient in law to
maintain the action. Whereupon, the plaintiff abiding his
demurrers, the court directed that judgment be entered for
the defendants, and the plaintiff sued out a writ of error, and
removed the cause into this court. It being very.properly
a0mitted, by the counsel of the defendants, that the first and
second counts of the declaration are in the usual form, it is
not necessary to determime the question as to the sufficiency
of the third and fourth, and we are the less inclined to do so,
from the fact that the counsel on both sides expressed the
wish, at the argument, that the decision of the cause might
turn upon the question, whether the plaintiff, on the facts
disclosed in the pleadings, was entitled to recover against the
defendants. That question is the main one presented by the
pleadings; and inasmuch as it might well have been tried
under the general issue, we think it quite unnecessary to consider any of the incidental questions which do not touch the
merits of the controversy. Special pleading in suits on bills
of exchange and promissozy notes ought not to be ncouraged,
except in cases where by law the defence would otherwise be
excluded or rendered unavailing. Full and clear statements
of the facts as disclosed in the pleadings, were presented to
the court, at the argument, by the counsel on both sides.
They are substantially as follows: In June, 1857, the defendants, residents of Madison, in the State of Indiana. being desirous of procuring a loan of money, made their certain accept
ances in writing of tw.o blak I ills of exchange, in sets of two

106

SUPREME COURT
Bank of Pitsturghv. Neal et al.

part.3 to each bill, and transmitted the four blanks, thus accepted, to their correspondent, Lot 0. Reynolds, then and still
residing at Pittsburgh, in the State of Pennsylvania. Both sets
of blanks were in the form of printed blanks usually kept by
merchants for bills of exchange in double sets, except that each
of the four was made payable to the order of the correspondent
to whom they were sent, and was duly accepted on its fhce by
the defendants, in the name of their firm. They were in blank
as to the names of the drawers and the address of the drawees,
and as to date, and amount, and time, and place of payment. When the defendants forwarded the acceptances, they
inistructed their correspondent to perfect them as bills of exchange, 'by procuring the signatures of the requisite parties,
as accommodation drawers and endorsers, and to fill up each
with the appropriate date, and with sums not less than fifteen
hundred nor more than three thousand dollars, payable at the
longest period practicable, and to sell and negotiate the bills
as perfected, for money, and remit the proceeds to the defendants. Afterwards, in the month of July, of the same year, the
defendants, at the request of the person to whom those acceptances were sent, made four other similar acceptances, and
delivered them to him, to be sold and negotiated as bills of
exchange, in double sets, for his own use, and with power to
retain and use the proceeds thereof for his own benefit. They
were in all respects the same, in point of form, as the four
acceptances-first named, and, like those, each of the four parts
was made payable to the order of the person at whose request
they were given, and was duly accepted by the defendants in
the name of their firm. When they delivered the sets last
named, they authorized the payee to perfect them as. bills of
exchange, in two parts, in reasonable amounts, and with reasonable dates. Eight acceptances were thus delivered by the
defendants to the same person, corresponding ir. point of form
to four bills of exchange, but iiith blanks for the names of the
drawers and the address of the drawees, and for the respective
amounts, dates, and times and places of payment. Four contained, in the printed form of the blanks, the words, "first of
,ex-hange, second .unpaid;" and the other four contained in

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Bank ofPi tb'hgh v. 2Kea

107

aL

the corresponding form the words, "second of exchange, first*
unpaid;" but in all other respects they were alike. All of
the first class were perfected by the correspondent as bills of
exchange of the first part, and were sold and negotiated by
him at certain other banks in the city of Pittsburgh. He perfected them by procuring L. 0. Reynolds & Son to become
the drawers, addressed them to the defendants, endorsed them
himself in blank, and procured another individual or firm to
become the second endorser. They were filled up by him for
sums varying from about two ,thousand to three thousand dollars, with dates corresponding to the times when they were
negotiated, and were respectively made payable in four months
from date. Contrary to his instructions, he retained the proceeds of the one first negotiated, which he had been directed to
remit; and he also retained in his possession, but without
inquiry or complaint on the part of the defendants, the other
four acceptances, consti tuting the second class. On the first
day of August, 1857, he perfected and filled up as a separate
bill of exchange one of the last-named acceptances, and sold
and negotiated it to the plaintiff for his own use and benefit.
He also perfected and filled up, on the eighteenth day of the
same month, another of the same class, in the same manner,
and for the same purpose, and on the same day sold and negotiated it to the plaintiff. Both of these last-mentioned bills
of exchange vary from those of the first class, not only in dates
and amounts, but also as to time and place of payment, ilnd
are in all r~spects single bills of exchange. They were each
received and discounted by the plaintiff, without any knowledge whatever that either bad been perfected and filled up by
the payee without authority, or of the circumstances under
which they had been intrusted to-his care, unless the words,
"second of exchange, first unpaid," can be held to have that
import.
In all other respects, the bills must be viewed precisely as
they would be if they had been perfected and filled up by the
defendants, and for two reasons, deducible from the decisions
of this court:
First. Because, where a party to a negotiable instrument

[08

SITPREME OOURT.
Bank of Pittsburgh v. Neal el al.

intrusts it to the custody of another with blanks not filled up,
whether it be for the purpose to accommodate the person to
whom it was intrusted, or to be used for his own benefit, such
negotiable instrument carries on its face an implied authority
to fill up the blanks and perfect the instrument; and as between such party and innocent third parties, the person to
whom it was so intrusted must be deemed the agent of the
party who committed such instrument to his custody--or, in
other words, it is the act of the principal, and he is bound by
it. Goodman v. Simonds, 20 How., 861; Violet v. Patton,
5 Cran., 142.
Secondly. Because a bona fide holder of a negotiable instrument, for a valuable consideration, without notice of the
facts which impeach its validity betwe'en the antecedent parties, if he takes it under an endorsement made before the
same becomes due, holds the title unaffected by these facts,
and may recover thereon, although, as between the antecedent
parties, the transaction may be without any legal validity.
Swift v. Tyson, 16 Peters, 15; Goodman v. Simonds, 20
Howard, 863.
Applying these principles, it is obvious that the only question that arises on this branch of the case is as to the effect of
the words, "second of exchange, first unpaid," which appear
on the face of the bids. That question, under the circumstances of this case, is a question of law, and not of fact for
the jury. Three decisions of this court sustain that-proposition; and in view of that fact, we think it*unnecessary to do
more than refer to those decisions, without further comment
in its support. Andrews v. Pond and al., 13 Pet., 5; Fowler
v. Brantly, 14 Pet., 318; Goodman v. Simonds, 20 How., 366.
Another principle, firmly established by this court, and
closely allied to the question under consideration, will serve
very much to elucidate the present inquiry. In Downes and
al. v. Church, 13 Pet., 1. 207, this court held, that either of
the set of bills of exchange may be presented for acceptance,
and if not accepted, that a right of action presently arises,
upon due notice, against all the antecedent parties to the bill,
without any others of the set being presented; for- say the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

109

Bank of Pittsburghv. Neal e al.

court, it is by no means necessary that all the parts should be
presented .for acceptance before a right of action accrues tc
the holder.
Now, if either of the set may be presented,. and when not
accepted a right of action immediately ensues, it is difficult tosee any reason why, if upon presentation the bill is accepted,
it is not coipetent for the endorsee to negotiate it in the
market; and clearly, if the endorsee may properly negotiate
the bill, a bona fide holder for value, without notice. may
.acquire a good title. In this connection, Mr. Chitty says, that
"unless the drawee has accepted another part of a bill, he
may safely pay any part that is presented to him, and that a
payment of that part will annul the effect of the others; but
if one of the parts has been accepted, the payment of another
unaccepted part will not liberate the acceptor from liability
to pay the holder of the accepted part, and such acceptor may
therefore refuse to pay the bearer of the unaccepted part;'
from which he deduces the rule, that a drawee of a bill drawn
in sets should only accept one of the set. Chitty on Bills,
(10 Am. ed., by Barb.,) 155.
Mr. Byles says: "The drawee should accept only one part,
for if two accepted parts should come into the hands of differ-.
efit holders, and the acceptor should pay one, it is possible
that he may be obliged to pay the other part also;" which
could not be, unless it was competent for the holder of a
second part to negotiate it in the market. Byles on Bills,
p. 310.
Where the drawee accepted and endorsed one part to a
creditor, as a security, and afterwards accepted and endorsed
another part for value to a third person, but subsequently substituted another security for the part first accepted, it was
held, in Holdsworth v. Hunter, 10 Barn. and Cress., 449, that,
under these circumstances, the holder of the part secondly
accepted was entitled to recover on the bill; and Lord Tenterden and Baron Parke held that the acceptor would have
been liable on the part secQndly accepted, even if the first
part had been endorsed and circulated unconditionally.
Judge Story says, in his work on bills of exchange, that the

SUPREME COURT.
Bank ofP ck5srg& v. NIeazl et A.

bona fide holder of any one of the set, if accepted, may recover
the amount from the acceptor, who would not be bound to
pay any other of the set which was held by another person,
although he might be the first holder. Story on Bills, sec. 226.
No authority is cited, for the' defendant, to impair the force
of those already referred to; but it is not necessary to ezpress
any decided opinion upon the point at the present time.
Suffice it to say, that in the absence of any authority to the
contrary, we are strongly inclined to think that the correct
rule is stgted by Mr. Chitty, and that such is the general
understanding among mercantile men.
But another answer may be given to the argument for the
defendant, which is entirely conclusive against it; and that
is, that the bills described in the first and second counts were
not parts of sets of bills of exchange. They were perfected,
filled up, and negotiated, by the correspondent 6f the defendants, to whom the blank acceptances had been intrusted as
single bills of exchange; and for the acts of their correspondent, in that behalf, the defendants are responsible to a bona
fide holder for value, without notice that the acts were performed without authority.
When the transaction is thus viewed, as it must be in contemplation of law, it is clearly brought within the operation
of the same rule as it would be if the defendant himself had
improvidently accepted two bills for the same debt. In such
cases, it is held, that the acceptor is liable to pay both, in the
hands of innocent holders for value. Davidson v. Robertson,
8 Dow. P. C., 228.
Lord Eldon said, in that case: "Here were two bills for
the same account, and supposed to be for the same sums;
they who were to pay them had a right to complain that there
were two, and yet they were bound to pay both, in the hands
of bona fide holders, if accepted by them or by others for
them, having authority to accept."
To suppose, in this case, that the words "second of ex:hange, first unpaid," import knowledge to the plaintiff that
the bills were drawn in sets, would be to give them an effect
contrary to the averments of the defendants' pleas, as well as

DECEMBER TEI M, 1859.

111

rauac Co. of ie Valley of Virginiav. Mordecai.

contrary to the admitted fact that they were not so drawn;
and for those- reasons the theory cannot be sustained.
In view of all the facts as disclosed in the pleadings, we
think the case clearly falls withf the operation of the rule.
generally applicable in cases of agency,
that where one of two
innocent parties must suffer, through the fraud or negligence
of a third party, the loss shall fall upon him who gave the
credit. Pitzherbert v. Mathen, 1 Term., 16, per Buller; Androscoggin Bank r. Kimball, 10 Cush., 373; Montague v.
Perkins, 22 Eng. L. and Eq., 516.
Business men who place their signatures to blanks, suitable
for negotiable bills of exchange or promissory notes, and intrust them to their correspondents, to raise money at their
discretion, ought to upderstand the operation and effect of
this rule, and not to expect that courts of justice will fail in.
such cases to give it due application.
According to the views of this court, the demurrers to the
several pleas filed to the first and second counts of the declaration should have been sustained. Having come to that conclusion, it is unnecessary to examine the other propositions
submitted on behalf of the defendants.
.The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed,.
with costs, and the cause remanded, with directions to enter
judgment for the plaintiff, as upon demurrer, on the first and
second counts of the declaration.

THE INBSUIANOB COMPANY OP THE VALLEY OF VIRGINIA, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. MOSES C. MORDEOAI.
Where there was insurance upon the freight of a vessel on a voyage from
Charleston to#Rio Janeiro, and from thence to a port of discharge in the
United States, the insurance was'upon the freight of each successive voyage,
and is to be applied to the freight at risk at any time, whether on the outward
or homeward voyage, to the nmount of the valuation.
.herefore, where the vessel performed the outward voyage, and was condemned
as unseaworthy, and the whole freight of the return voyage lst, the underwri
ters were not entitled to a deduction of the freight earned on thp outward

Voyage.

