DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
GonzaWe

161

v. United States.

that Percifull's right to appropriate the land in dispute was
undoubted, and that the register and receiver had allowed the
heirs of Belding to enter wrongfully; still, the courts of Arkansas, in this action of ejectment, had no right to interfere,
and set up Percifull's rejected claim.

But this is of little consequence, as, when the act of April,
1832, was passed, reserving the Hot Springs from sale, IPercifull had "no vested interest in'the land that a court of justice
could recognise. Then, the United States Government was
the legal owner, and had th power to reserv it-m
sale*_so
that the offer to purchase iu 1851, under the assumed -preference to entry claimed for Percifull, was inadmissible. Had ile
entry been allowed, in face of the act of Congress, such proceeding would have been merely void.
These being the only questions withief our jurisdiction
worthy of consideration in the causes Nos. 15, 16, 17, 18, and
*19, it is ordered that the respective judgments rendered there
in by the Supreme Court of Arkansas be affirmed.

JuAw JosE GoNzALEs, APPLL"T, v. THE UNnBD STATES.
Where a grant of land in California describes it by name and boundaries, and
then states that the land of which donation is made is one league in length
and three-quarters of a league in breadth, a little more or less, as shown by
the map.which goes with the expediente, with the usual reservations of the
sobrante or overplus to the use of the nation, the grant will be confirmed to
the extent of one league in length and three-quarters of a league in breadth,
without extending it to the boundaries mentioned..

THIs was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of Oalifornia.
All the title papers are set forth in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Hepburn, upon a brief filed by himself and Mr. Volney -. Howard, for the appellant, and by Mr.
Stanton for the United States.
VOL. XXI1.
11

SUPREME COURI.
Gonzake v. Un

)Sa.

The counsel for the appellant said t~his claim will be found,
on examination, to be one of the most meritorious that has
ever been presented for confirmation.
The Government has never opposed it; yet, under the
present decision, the claimant gains but little benefit from his
title.
The land commissioners, in their opinion, say that it is
a grant by metes and -bounds, and that, 3onsequently, no
sobrante can result; but, in their decree, they limit the extent
of the land from east to west to three-quarters of a league, a
liltle more or less.
The District Court affirmed the decision of the commissioners.
The claimant contends that the land should be confirmed
to the boundaries mentioned in the decree of concession,
making him, in the language of the decree of concession,
"the ow-ner of the land known by the name of San Antonio,
or El Pescadero, bounded by the rancho of Antonio Buelna,
the sierra, the coast, and the Arroyo del Butano," without
limitation as to quantity, there being none in the decree of
qoncession.
The quantity of land mentioned in the grant was erroneously inserted, through a clerical error, as we will show hereafter.
But, even admitting that it w's inserted correctly, it is insisted by the claimant that the quantity should be disregarded
where all the boundaries are given in a grant, as in this case.
The naming of a quantity of land in a grant, and reservation of the surplus to the nation, does not prevent the title
from passing to the grantee, if all the boundaries are given.
A clause in the grant, naming quantity and reserving surplus,
in such a case, is an unmeaning formula. The utmost effect
that could be given to the clause would be to reserve the
right to the Government, on proper proceedings, to divest the
title as to the surplus; but, in the mean time, the title to t.i
whole land is vested in the grantee.
This land is not claimed by any adverse claimant. The
Government never interfered with Gonzales in any way.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859

163

Gwzzakes v. Unie Stata.

It will be seen, by the testimony of Manuel Jimeno, that
Gonzalks had occupied the land from 1833. If the Government had the right to iesume the ownership of the surplus,
its non-action for so long a period raises a presumption of a
relinquishment of the right.
The quantity named'in the grant is a clerical error. It was
taken from the marginal note on the map, written by some
illiterate'person, and which the court will perceive, by inspection of the traced copy in the record, is such as would readily
mislead.
It describes the land as one league from north to south.
We cannot make out the word which professes to give the
distance from east to -west.
The map was made as part of the petition of Gonzales to
Figueroa for the land, and it was presented to Figueroa viith
the petition. Gonzales; in that petition, refers to the map,
and says that the ranch delineated on it includes "a square of
about four leagues, extending from the coast to the sierra, and
from the rancho of San Gregorio (raucho occupied by the
citizen Antonio Buelna) to the rancho Punta de Afo Nuevo,"
and asks for the whole tract, without any limitation of quantty.
It may' be remarked here that Gonzales states, in his peti-.
tion to Figueroa, that he had a family of thirteen persons,
and the grant recites that it is for his benefit and that of his'
family. He also states that he had five hundred head of cattle.
The rancho is pasture land. Four leagues was little enough
to provide for Gonzales's family and the increase of his stock.
There can be no doubt the Governor would have granted
him that quantity, or much more, if he had asked for quantity.
The land had been abandoned by the mission of Santa-Cruz,
and it was a benefit to the country to have it occupied.
Witnesses were. examined, by order of Figueroa, before he
made the decree of concession. .Salvio Pacheco says the
rancho is one league to a league and a half from east to west.
Manuel Larios .says that it is two leagues from the beach to
"lehills.
We may presume that the marginal-note had no: then been

SUPREME COURT.
Gam~ue" v. Mite SA3

wv-tten on the map, or, if written, it Fab not properly read
by the clerk who .biade out the grant.
The decree of concession evidently"intended to invest Gonzales with the'title to the whole tract, and it calls upon the
interested party again to "present his title, that it may be revalidated."
If the party is to get only the*quantity named in the grant.
he will be deprived by it, practically, of the greater part of"
his propietty.
The decre'c of concession gave him the whole tract. Does
the grant, which was made by virtue of the decree, and in
order to ":evalidate" it, take away the greater portion of the
land given by the decree?
The grant refers to the map, to ascertain the land, and ihe
map exhibits the natural objects which are its boundaries. •
"Wl en a deed of land describes the subject matter by monuments clearly defined, such-as a river, a spring, a mountain,
a marked tree, or other natural object, and courses, distances,
and quantity, are likewise inserted, which disagree with the
monuments, the description by monuments shall, in general,
prevail; for it is more likely that a party purchasing or selling
land should make mistakes in respect to course, distance, and
quantity, than in respect to natural objects, which latter, from
being mentioned in the-.deed, are presumed to have been
examined at the time.
"The. monuments which shall control course, distance, etc.,
under such circumstances, may be any objects which are
visible and clearly ascertained, as lands of other individuals
or their corners.",
4 Phillips on Evidence, Cowen and Hill's notes, page 548,
and authorities there cited.
It is evident that the land commissioners thought that the
extent of the land from east to west as delineated on the map,
was no more than three-quarters of a league, otherwise they'
would have confirmed tle claim to a greater extent.
They have followed thepraseology of the grant, and added
the words, "a little more or less," to the designation of quantity, and perhaps these words give the claimant the whole

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

165

Gonzaea v. United Siala.

land; but as they would not enlarge the tract beyond threequarters of a league, under the present ruling of those having
charge of the making of surveys and the issuance of patents,
a decision of this court isasked, to establish the rights of the
claimant as to the extent of land to be confirmed to him.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the couit.
This is an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
[Translation of Title.]

Provisionally authorized by the Administration of the Maritime Custom-House of Monterey, for the years 1832 and

1888.
Jose Figueroa, General of Brigade of the National Armies of
Mexico, Commander General, Inspector, and Superior Political Chief of Upper California.
Wherea's Juan Jose Gonzales, a Mexican by birth, has, for
his own personal benefit. and that of his family, petitioned for
the land known by the name of San Antonio, or El Pescadero,
bounded by the rancho Antonia Buelnos Sierra, the coast,
and the Arroyo of Buntano, the proper measures and examinations being previously made, as required by laws and regulations, using the powers which are conferred on me in decree
of the seventh of this month, in the name of the Mexican
nation, I have granted him the aforesaid land, declaring to
him the ownership of it by these presents-said grant being
understood *to be in entire conformity with the provisions oi
the laws, subject to the approval or disapproval of the most
excellent territorial deputation and of the supreme Government, under the following conditions:
1. That he will submit to those which may be established
by the regulation which is to be made for the distribution f
vacant lands; and, in the mean time, izeither the grantee noi
his heirs can divide o-r alienate that which is granted to them,
subject to any tax, entail, pledge, mortgage, or other encumbrance, even for pious purposes, nor convey it in mortmain.
2. He may enclose it without prejudice to the crossings,
toads, and servitudes; he will enjoy it freely and exclusively,

166

SUPRE.N[E COURT.
Gonzales v. United States.

making such use or cultivation of it as may best suit; but
within one year, at furthest, he shall build a house, and it shall.
be inhabited.
8. When the ownership is confirmed to him, he will request
the proper magistrate to give himjuridical possession in virtue
of this title, by whom the boundaries will be marked out-in
which, besides the bounds, he will place some fruit or forest
trees, of a useful character.
4. The land of which donation is made him is one league
in length by three-quarters of a league in breadth, a little
more or less, as shown by the map which goes in the expediente; the magistrate who may give the possession will
cause it- to be in conformity with the ordinance, in order to
mark out the boundaries, leaving the surplus which may result
to the nation, for its conveuient uses.
5. If he contravene these conditions, he will lose his right
to the land, and it will be subject to denouncement by another
person.
In consequence I order, that the present serving him for
a title, and being held as firm and valid, note be made of
it in the corresponding book, and it be delivered to the person
interested.
Given in Monterey, on the 24th December, 1833.
Jos 'IGUBROA.

(Signed) AGUSTIN V. ZAMORA3iO, Sec!.
OFFIOE OF THE SURVEY.oR GENERAL OF TwE

UNITED STATES rOR CALwoIRnA.

Samuel D. King, surveyor general, &c., and as such nov
having in my office and under my custody a portion of the
archives of the former Spanish and Mexican Territory or
Department of Upper California, do hereby certify that the
fifteen preceding and hereunto annexed pages of tracing paper,
inclusive, and each of which is
numbered from one to -,
verified by my initials, (S. D. K.,) exhibit true and accurate
copies of certain documents on file and forming pat of the
said archives in this office.
In testimony whereof, &c.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

167

Gonales v. United Stae.
[Translation of Expediente.]

Provisionally authorized .by the maritime .custom-house of
Monterey, for the-years one thousand eight hundred* and
thirty-three and 1834.
FIGUEROA.
(Signed)
JoSE RAFAEL GoNzis.
(Signed)
To his Excellency the Commanding General:
I, citizen Juan Jose Gonzales, native of the mission of Santa
Cruz, resident of the town of Branciforte, residing and employed in said mission of Santa Cruz, and mayor domo of the
same; married, with a family of thirteen persons; having
served the nation eight years and two months as a soldier, and
having obtained my discharge from his excellency the commanding general Don Manuel Victoria, with the condition of
furnishing a recruit, which I did at my own- expense; and
finding myself with 500 head of large cattle, and having no
land or place to settle on; tired of the trouble of being together in the same village where I have been, and am unable
to progress, on account of the same; living where I have
rated a great loss in the stock- which I have placed twelve
years ago; and being now actually favored by the same mission of Santa Cruz, where my deceased father sacrificed himself
for twenty years, and where I served in his place, the salaries
of this post rent in the same mission, (Friar Antonio Real,)
satisfied with my services and those of my deceased father, has
wished to favor me, by assigning to me the rancho of San Antonio, formerly El Pescadero Realengo, which is not bccupied by
said mission, is distant twelve leagues to the northwest, bounddelineated
ed by the rancho of San Gregoria, which place on the accompanying paper,-including a square of about four
leagues, extending from the coast to the sierra, and from the.
rancho of San Gregoria (rancho occupied by citizen Antonio
Buelna), to the rancho of La Punta de Nuevo, which is the
further occupied by the mission, and desiring a security or
guaranty in the same place, I apply, with the consent of the
minister, to your excellency, with the due respect, praying
that you will be pleased to give me in possession the aforesaid place, in consideration of 'iny family, and which will

SUPREME COURT.
Gwaoales v. United ,Statfs.

confer favor and grace on your most attached subject and
servant, who wishes you many years of life, &e.
JUAii GoNzALEs.
SANTA

ORuz, November 26, 1833.

MONTEREY, November 29, 18383.
In conformity with. the laws on the matter, let -the ayuntamiento of the town of Branciforte report whether the person
interested in this petition possesses the requisites to the attended to in his petition; whether the land he asked is in.
cluded in the 20 leagues from the boundary, or 10 from the
sea shore, referred to in the law of August, 1824; if it is
irrigable, dependent on the seasons or pasture of land; if it
belongs to the ownership of any private individual, corporation of pueblo, with everything else which may be propei to
explain the matter.
This being concluded, it will pass this expediente to the
reverend father minister of the mission of Santa Cruz, that he
may report what he knows on the matter.. Senor Don Jose
Figueroa, general of brigade and commandant, inspector general, and superior political chief of the territory, thus ordered,

decreed, and signed; to which I'certify.
AGUSTIN V. ZAMORANO, sec'y.

FIGUEROA.

In compliance with your excellency's to this ayuntamiento, under your command in the decree of November 29th,
1833, to report whether the person interested in this petition
possesses the requisites to be attended to in his request, aud if
the land he asks for be included in those referred to in the law.
The land asked for by the person interested in this petition
may now be granted to him, for he has all the circumstances
required to be attended to, and is entitled to it.
It is an unoccupied place; has no irrigable lands; has land
dependent on the seasons; has been recognised as the priperty of the nmissson of San'ta Cruz; and for the purposes it may
serve, I sign this with the second regidor, on account of the
absence -,
in the town hall of the town of Branciforte, on
the 2d December, 1833.
(Signed)
.AxToNio ROBLES.
(Signed)
JQSE MARIA SALASoN.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

169

Gouz e v. UniWd Sta.

I agree to there being granted the petitioner, Juan Jose
Gonzales, the place he asks for, as it is a place which this mission does not at present occupy; nor is it deemed necessary
for it, in consideration of the fact that it has land enough for
its cattle, and that, being unoccupied, it is considered public
abundance
land: besides, when the mission occupied it-had
have died and diminished, and the few that reof cattle, main do not need the land. He is a person of merit, and the
mission ought to place him before aiy other person. He has
testimony I
all the requisites, and is entitled to it; and sign, on the 7th December, 1833.
Friar ANTONIO SURRA DEL RE,

mfnister of Sznta Cruz.
MoNTEEY, December 10, 1833.
Let it pass to the alcalde of this capital, before whom the
party will produce, on information of three fit witnesses, who
will be questioned upon the following points:
1. If the petitioner is a Mexican by birth; if he has served
in the army; if he is married, and has children; if he is of
good conduct.
2. If the laud he asks for is of the ownership of any individual, or corporation or pueblo; if it is irrigable, dependent on
the seasons, or pasture laud, and what is its extension.
3. If he has cattle with which.to stock it, or the possibility
of acquiring them.
This examination being made, let him return the expediente
for its decision. His excellency the political chief, commanding
general, inspector and general of brigade, Don Jose Figueroa,
thus ordered, decreed, and signed it, to which I certify.
JosE FIGUEROA.
(Signed)

(Signed)

AuGusTus V. ZuAmERo.

Let the party interested in this expediente be notified to
present the witnesses who are to be examined on the points
included in the superior decree of the 10th instant which pre.
Qedes this.

SUPREME COURT.
Goza

v. United SIe.

Thus I, the alcalde, decreed, ordered, and signed it, with
the assisting witnesses, in. the established form.
MARCELINO ESCOBAR
Assisting witnesses:
(Signed) JOSE MARIA MALDORADO.
(Signed) JosE ANTONIO ROMERo.

On the same day, present Juan Jose Gonzales, the foregoing act was made known to him, and having understood it,
he said that he beard it, and that he presents citizens Salvio
Pacheco, Manuel Larios, and Felipe Hernandez, and he signed
it with rhe and the assisting witnesses.
(Signed).
(Signed).

W. ESCOBAR.

JuVr GONZALES.

Assisting witnesses:
(Signed) JOSE MARIA MALDORAD6.
(Signed) JOSE ANTONIO RoMERO.
In the port of Monterey, on the 13th day of the month of
December, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three, present, Salvio Pacheco, witness presented on the part of the persons interested, oath was received in form of law.
The petitioner is a Mexican by birth-; was in the army; has
thirteen children. The land petitioned for has no private
ownership; understood it belongs to the mission of Santa
Cruz; that its extent is from a league to a league and a half
from east and from north to south; he does not know how
much of it is, as it is a canon which reaches to the rancho of
citizen Antonio Buelna. He has two hundred head of cattle,
a drove of mares and tame horses, &e.
Manuel Larios, a witness, says he is a Mexican; was in the
army; is married; has children; knows that the land petitiuned for pertains to the mission of Santa Cruz; that the said
place is dependent on the seasons; that the land is about a
league or more Wide, and two from the beach to the hills.
A witness, Felipe Hernandez, repeats the same facts s
Rtated by the prior witness.
MONTEREY, D ~b52r 3, 1833.
The official acts ordered in the foregoing superior being fin.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

171

Gomaes v. United Stai.
ished, let the expediente be returned to the superior political
chief for the superior decision.
X. ESCOBAR.
MONTEREY, December 17, 1833.
Having seen the petition with this expediente, commences
the report of the municipal authority of the town of Branciforte, that of the Rev. father minister of Santa Cruz, the
declarations of the witnesses, together with all other things
which were presented and deemed proper to be seen, in conformity with the provisions of the laws and regulations on the
matter, Juan Jose Gonzales is declared owner in fee of the
land known by the name of San Antonio, (or El Pescadero,)
bounded by the rancho of Antonio Buelna, the sierra, the
coast, the Arroyo del Bratano, subject to the conditions which
may be stipulated. Let the corresponding patent issue, let
note be made in the proper book, and let this expediente be
directed for the approbation of the most excellent territorial,
in which case the person interested, who will be made to
know this decree, will again present his title, that it may be
revalidated.
JosE FIGUEROA.

The committee on colonization and vacant lands, to whom
was referred the expediente, the formation of which was
caused by the petition of citizen Juan Jose Gonzales for the
place named San Antonio, or El Pescadero, having examined
it with the corresponding circumspection, taking into consideration at the same time the law of August 18th, 1824, those
agreeing with it, and the general directions which, on the 24th
November, 1828, the supremie Governmeht of the Union gave
for the better fulfilment of the first; from the examination of
the expedients, the committee has become impressed with the
opinion which it before held of the scrupulousness and tact
with which his excellency the political chief ordered it'to be
made, so that neither in its formation, nor in the steps taken,
in any essential requisite wanting; wherefore the committee
concludes by offering to the deliberation of this most excellent
deputation the following proposition:
1. Approved the grant made to citizen Juan Jose Gonzales
of the place iiamed San Antonio El Pescadero, or the 24th

-SUPREME COURT.
aonza v. United Matae.
December, 1833, in entire conformity with the provisions of
the law of August 18th, 1824, and article 5th of the regulation of November, 1828.
MONTEREY, May 10, 1834.
CARLos ANTONIO CARIRLOo
(Signed)
Jose CASTRO.
(Signed)
JOSE T. ORTEGA.
(Signed)
JOsE A. ESTUDILLO.
(Signed)
MONTEREY, .May 17, 1834.
In sessions of this day, the proposition of the foregoing repdrt mad approved by the most excellent deputation ordering
that the.expediente be returned to his excellency the superior
political chief, for the convenient purposes.
JOSE FIoUEROA.
(Signed)
JuA B. AVARADO, Secretary.
GEORGE FISHER, Secrctary.
Opinionof the Board by Com'r B. Aug Thompson.
For the place called San Antonio, or El Pescadero.-Claim of
for one square league of land in the county of Santa Cruz.
This claim is founded on a grant made by Governor Figue.
roa, on 24th December, 1833, to the present claimant, which
was duly approved by the territorial deputation on the 17th
day of May following. The grant describes the land as that
known by the name of San Antonio, or El Pescadero, bounded
by the rancho of Antonio Buelna, the sierra, the coast, and
the Arroyo de Butano. The fourth condition states that the
land of which donation is made is one league in length and
three-quarters of a league in breadth, a little more or less, as
shown by the map which goes with the expediente, with the
usual reservations of the sobra.ute or overplus to the use of the
nation. The boundaries are distinctly marked out on the
map; and although there is no scale on the map, by which the
extent of the boundaries can be ascertained, yet there is a note
made upon it, stating.that they extend one league from north
to south, and three-quarters of a league from east to west.
This description, taken in connection with that contained in
the grant, shows very clearly that it is a grant by metes and
rounds, and that consequently no sobrahte can result.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

17.

GOnzales v. Uniecl &Wwie.

The original grant is in evidence, and the genuineness of
the signatures of the Governor and Secretary appearing thereon are duly proved by the deposition of David Spence. Manuel
Jimeno proves that the claimant has occupied the land since
1833; that he had a house, horses, and sowings on it, and he
still lives on it.
Entertaining no doubt, from the facts of the case, that the
grant is a valid one to the extent of one league in length, and
three-quarters of a league in breadth, it is hereby confirmed to
that extent; the three-fourths of a league to be surveyed within the out-boundary represented on the diseno.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered a separate opinion, in
which Mr. Justice NELSOT concurred.
The plaintiff was confirmed in his claim to a parcel of land
designated as San Antonio, or El Pescadero, in the county of
Santa Cruz, by the board of commissioners. The description
of the land in their decree is as follows:
'Being the same which has been held and occupied by the
present claimant since-the year 1833 to the present time, and
is bounded as follows: Beginning at the mouth of the Arroyo
de Butano, and running along the sea coast, and bordering.
thereon, to the boundary line of Antonio Buelna, the distance
being one league, a little more-or less; thence with the line of
said Buelna east three-quarters of a league; thence a line
southerly parallel with the sea coast until it intersects the
Arroyo del Butano, at the distance of three-quarters of a
league from the coast; thence along said arroyo and bordering thereon to its mouth, the place of beginning; the same
being in extent three-fourths of a square league, a little more
or less. For a more particular description, reference being
had to the original grant and map contained in the expediente
from -the archives now in the custody of the United States
surveyor general for California, the first of which and a traced
copy of the latter are filed in the ease."
The parties appealed to the District Court, and, upon the
hearing of the cause, the decree of. the commissioners was
affirmed, and it was further ordered, that the claim of the

SUPREME COURT.
Unied State ex rdezwne Crawfordv. Addimm

said Juan Jose Gonzales is a good and valid claim to the land
known by the name of San Antonio; or Pescadero, to the
extent and within the boundaries mentioned in the grant and
map, the original of the former and copy of the latter being
on file in the records of this case. From this decree the
plaintiff appealed. The only question presented on the appeal
is, whether the grant is to be located according to the natura
calls in the grant, or whether the clainiant is to be confined
to the quantity specified in the 4th condition of the grant.
But the decision of this question is reserved in the decree
of the District Court, and will properly arise after the location.
The failure to direct the precise manner of the location is not
erroneous. The result therefore is, that the decree must be
affirmed.

Tim UmET

STATES EX RELATIONE RICHARD- R C
HENRY ADDIS01T

V.
0RAvmORD

Where the matter in controversy was the right to the mayoralty in Georgetown,
tha salary of which office was $1,000 per annum, payable monthly, and the
dviation of which office was two years, this court has jurisdiction of a case
c'ming up by writ of error from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia.
The fact that the salary is payable monthly makes no difference; the appyopriation, when made, being made for the whole sum.
A judgment of ouster being -rendered in the Circuit Court, and the defendant
having filed the uecessary bond, and sued out a writ of error to this court, this
amounts to a supersedeas upon the judgment.
The case is not a proper one for a mandamus from this court to the judges below, or for a rule upon them to show cause why they should not carry out the
judgment of ouster.
The fact that the term of office will be about to expire when the writ of error is
retunable, viz: December term, 1860, is not a sufficient reason for the inter.
position of this court at the present stage-of the proceedings.

THIs was an application for a peremptory mandamus or for.
a rule to show cause why the judges of the Circuit Court of
the District of Columbia should not execute a judgment in
that court, by which Ifenry Addison had been directed to he

.

