D ECENMIIER TERM, 18b9

217

Chuw'e v. Jiodton Bdting. Conzjpawj.
the courts of admiralty, it is ordered, that "in all suits for salvage the suit may be in rem against the property saved, QR in
personam against the party at whose request and for Whose benefit the salvage service has been performed." By reference to
Mr. Conklin's treatise, page 42, it will be found that it is the
prevailing opinion that both cannot be joined in the same libel.
The point has not been brought before this court, and we notice it now only to show that it is not now decided.
2. The libel shows that the steamboat was engaged in the
internal trade of the State of Texas, proceeding from a port in
the same, up a river wholly within the same. It is not even
alleged that she had a coasting license. That a court of admiralty had jurisdiction in such a case, or that the maritime
law of Wreck and salvage could be applied to it, are questions
not-made by the pleadings nor noticed in the argument, and
therefore are not decided by the court.
Let the libel be dismissed, with costs.

EDWIN IL.CHAFiE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE BOSTON BELTING COMPANY.
Where a patentee, whose patent had been extended according to law, conveyed
all his interest .to another person, and the assignee brought suit against certain parties for an infringement of' the patent, and these parties claimed.
under a license granted by the original patentee before the assignment, it was
necessary to show a connected chain of title to themselves, in order to justify
their use of the improvements secured by the patent.
Having omitted to do this, the judgment of the court below, which was in favor
of the defendants, must be reversed, and the case remanded for another trial.
Whether the patent was for a process or a machine, is not decided in the present
case.

Tifs case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts.
It was an action of trespass on the case brought by Chaffee
against the Boston Belting Company, for an infringement upon
a patent granted for the manufacture of India-rubber, granted
to Chaffee in 1836, and extended for seven years from the 31st
-lay of August, 1850.

SUPREME COURT.
Chaffee v. Boston Belling Company.

The respective claims of the plaintiff and defendants are
fully stated in the opinion of the court.
The presiding judge in the ,court below ruled that the defendants had a right to continue the same machinery for the
same purposes, and in conformity with the directions contained
in the specification, after the expiration and renewal of the
letters patent,. and, consequently, that the plaintiff could not
recover.
To this ruling the plaintiff excepted, and brought the case
up to this court.
It was argued by Hr. Jenckes and Mr. C/areneA. &ward.for
the plaintiff in error, no counsel appearing for the defendants.
The case having gone off upon a single point, the argument
of the counsel for the plaintiff in error upon that point is
alone reported.
The court belGw erred in charging the jury, that, under
their title, the defendants had a right to continue to use the
same machinery -for the same purposes. This charge was
predicated upon an assumption of title in the defendants.
which they bad not proved. They had proved that Goodyear,
while the owner of the original term of the patent, had granted
to Edwards a license for a specific purpose. They did not
prove any privity between themselves and that license. They
did not prove an assignment of that license to themselves.
They did not prove the assent 6f Edwards to their use of the
plaintiff's patent in the manufacture of the articles specified
in the license. The only purpose for which the license seems
to have been fitroduced was to identify the uses to.which the
defendants applied the plaintiff's patent, to wit: "for the
preparation and application of India-rubber to the manufacture of the articles mentioned and described in the indenture
between Goodyear and Edwards." This identification wasnet a justification of the use, by the defendants, of the plaintiff's patent. It proved satisfactorily the nature and extenft
of that use; but it proved nothing more. It did not prove,
that the defendants were rightfully in the enjoyment of the
thing patented, during the original term of the patent.

DECEMBER TREM, 1859.
Chaffee v. Boston BeUing Comnpany.

The defendants, therefore, having failed to establish any
privity between themselves and Goodyear, the owner of the
original term of the patent, failed also to establish any right,
as against the plaintiff to use his patent during its extended
term. The defendants, upon the record, appeal as naked
infringers of the plaintiff's patent.
The charge of the court below, therefore, was erroneous in
assuming the existence of a license from Goodyear to the
defendants, and entitles the plaintiff to a reversal of the judgment and to a venirefacias de novo.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before the court on a writ of error to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts. It was an action of trespass on the case, for the
alleged infrinagement of certain rights secured by letters patent.
As the foundation of the suit, the declaration alleges, in
effect, that the assignor of the plaintiff was the original and
first inventor of certcin improvements in the manufacture of
India-rubber, and that i the year 1836 letters patent for such
improvements were duly issued to him by the Commissionei
of Patents, as is therein fully and correctly set forth and de.
scribed.
Those improvements, as is alleged in the declaration, consist
in a mode of preparing the rubber for manufacturing purposes,
and of reducing it to a pasty state, without the use of the
spirits of turpentine or other solvents, and of applying the
same to cloths, and for ofler purposes, by the use of heated
rollers and other means, as set forth in the letters patent,
saving thereby, as is alleged, a large portion of the expense of
reducing the original material to a proper degree of softness,
and of fitting and preparing it for the various uses to which
it may be applied.
On application subsequently made to the Commissioner of
Patents, in due form of law, by the original inventor, the
paient was extended for the further term of seven years, fropthe tairty-first day of August, 1850; and the plaintiff alleges
thdt the patentee, on the first day of July, 1853, transferred,

220

SYPREME (O"T.
Qfee v. Boston B"q Oa.

.

assigned, and conveyed to hiln all his title- to the invention
and to the patent. for the extended ter41.
By virtue of that deed- of' transfer, it is claimed in the declaration that the plaintiff a6qi fed the right to demand and
recover the damages for-all infringements<ofthe letters patent
piior to the date of the transfer, as well as for those that have
been committed since that time; and, accordingly, the pilaintiff
alleges, that the defendants, on the thirty-first day of August,
1850,, fraudulently commenced the use of those improvements,
without law or right, .nd so.contipued to use them to the day
of the bommencement of this suit; .verring, at the same time,
that the defendants have prepared large quantities of the
native rubber for manufacturing purposes, without the uce of
spirits of. turpentine or other solvents, thereby making large
gains, and greatly to the damage of the plaintiff.
As appears by the transcript, the action .Was entered in the
Circuit Court at the May term. 1854, but was continued from
term to term until the May term, 1857, when the parties went
to trial upon the general issue.
From what is stated in the bill of exceptions, it appears that
one Charles Goodyear was the owner of the original letters
patent on the twenty-sixth day of January, 1846, and that he
continued to own'them for the residue of the ierm for which
they were originally granted. On that day he entered into an
indenture with one Henry Edwards, of the city of Boston,
*herbby, for certain considerations therein expressed, he sold
and conveyed to the said Renry Edwards, his .executors, ad.
ministrators, and assigns, the exclusive right and license to
make, use, and vend, ,any and all articles appertaining to
machines, or in the manufacture, constructibn, and use of,
machines or machinery, of whatever description, subject to
cextain, limitations and qualifications therein expressed.
By the terms of the instrument, itwas understood that the
right and license so conveyed *as to apply to any and all
articles substituted for leather, metal, and-other substances, in
the use or manufacture of machines or machinery, in so far 6s
the grantor had any rights or priyileges in the same, by virtue
of any .nventio or improvement made or which should there-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

221

O~owe v. Boston Bding Company.
after be made by him in-the manufacture' of India-rubber oi
gum-elastic goods, aid"in'virtue of any and all letters patent
or patent rights of 'the-United. States grantqd or belonging to
him, or which should thereafter be granted or belong to him,
for any and all inventions or improvements in'the manufacture
of such goods in this country, but eicluding the right to make
any contract with the Government of the United States. In
consideration of the premisds, the grantee paid the sum of one
thousand 'dollars, as appears by the recital of the instrument,
and agreed to pay'a certain, tariff, at the -rate of fie cents
per superficial yird, or five cents per pound for the pure gdm,
according to the nature- of the article manufactured.
Reference is madh in the declaration to tfie 'fetters patent,
and to -the deed of assignment firom the patente to the plaintiff, but neither of those instruments apppears in the bill of
exceptions or in any.other part'of the record.
At the trial of the cause, it was conceded and agreed that
the defendanth, before the dat6 of the plaintiff's writ, used
certain machinery, constructed in conformity with the specification annexed to A]e letters patent declared on, and that the
defendants, in using the machinery, conformed to the directions cdnained in the specification, and that the same was so
used for the preparation' and application of India-rubber to the
manufacture of the articles mentioned and degcribed in the
indenture from Charles Goodyear to Henry Edwards, and that
all-the machinery so used was constructed and in use as aforesaid before and at the time the original letters patent expired..
Upon this state of the case, according to thp bill of exceptious, the presiding justice ruled and instructed the jury, that,
under their title, the defendants bad the.right to continue to'
use the same machinery for the same purposes, and in co-Ii
formity with the directions contained in the specification, after
the expiration and renewal of the letters patent; and conseuently, that the plaintiff could not recover.
Under the ruling and instruction of the court, the jury
returried their verdict for the defendants; and the plaintiff
excepted to the ruling, and his exceptions were duly allowed.
It is insisted by the counsel of the plaintiff, that the in-

222.

SUPREME COURT.
Chaffee v. Boston Beting compawi.

struction given to the jury was erroneous; and that is the
only question presented for decision at the present time. In
considering that question, our attention must necessarily be
confined to the evidence reported in the bill of exceptions, as
the only means of ascertaining the precise state of facts on
which the instruction to the jury was given. Whether the
report of the evidence, as set forth in the bill .of exceptions,
may or may not be incomplete, or imperfectly stated, cannot
be known in an appellate court. Bills of exception, when
properly taken and duly allowed, become a part of the record,
and, as such, cannot be contradicted.
By the admission of the parties in this case, it appears that
the defendants, before the date of the plaintiff's writ, had
used certain machinery, constructed in conformity with .the
specification of the plaintiff's patent. In the absence of any
explanation or suggestion to the contrary, it must be inferred that the use of the machinery so admitted was without
the license or consent of the plaintiff, and subsequent to the
period when he became the owner of the patent for tho extended term; and if so, the admission was sufficient, under
the pleadings, to make out a prira facie case for the plaintiff.
To maintain the issue on their part, the defendants proved in
effect, or it was admitted, that all the machinery so used by
them had been constructed, and was in use, as aforesaid,
before and at the time the original letters patent expired, and
that in using the machinery they had conformed to the directions contained in the specification, and that the same was so
used for the purposes and in the manufacture of the articles
specified and described in the bef6re-mentioned indenture.
As -before stated, they had previously proved, or it had been
admitted, that the owner of the original term of the patent
had granted the exclusive right and license to a third party
to use the invention for the same purposes for which the defendants, both under the original and extended term of the
patent, had used their machinery; but they did not prove,
and there is no evidence in the case to show, any privity between themselves, and that license, either by assignment or
ih any other manner. They offered no proof tending to show

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

223

:g~qfee v. Boston .Bdting Cortpaal.

that their use of the machinery in question, under either term
of the patent, was with the license, consent, or knowledge.
of the patentee, or of any other person who ever had or claimed
to have any power or authority under him to convey the right.
Provision is made by the eighteenth- section of the act of
Congress, passed on the fourth day of July, 1836, for the
extension of patents beyond the time of their limitation, on
application therefor, in writing, by the ptentee, to the Commissioner of the Patent Office, sefting forth the grounds for
such extension. By the latter clause of that section, the
benefit of such renewal is expressly extended to assignees and
grantees of the right to 'use the thing patented to the extent
of their respective interests therein. 5 Stat. at Large, p. 125.
Under that provision, it has been repeatedly held by this
court, that a party who had purchased a patented machine,
and was using it during the original term for which the patent
was granted, might continue to use the machine during the
extended term. Bloomer v. McQuewan et al., 14 How., 549;
Wilson v. Rosseau, 4 How., 646. That rule rests upon the
doctrine that the purchaser, in using the machine under such
circumstances, exercises no rights created by the act of Congress, nor does he derive title to it by virtue of the franchise
or the exclusive privilege granted to the patentee.
When the patented machine rightfully passes to the hands
of the purchaser from the patentee, or from any other person
by him authorized to convey it, the machine is no longer
within the limits of the monopoly. According to the decision
of this court in the cases before mentioned, it then passes
outside of the monopoly, and is no longer under the peculiar
protection granted to patented rights. By a valid sale and
purchase, the patented machine becomes the private individual property of the purchaser, and is no longer protected by
the laws of the United States, but by the laws of the State
in which it is 'situated. Hence it is obvious, that if a person
legally acquires a title to that which is the subject of letters
patent, he may continue to use it until it is worn out, or he
may repair it or improve upon it, as he pleases, in the same
manner as if dealing with property of any other kind. Apply-

SUPREME COURT.
Chaffee v. Boston Beltiny Com.pany.

lug these principles to the present case,,as it is exhibited in
the bill of exceptions, there would be no difficulty in sustaining the instructions given to the jury, provided it appeared
that the machinery used by the defendants had been legally
purchased by them of the patentee or his assigns during the
original term of the patent. But nothing appears in the
evidence reported to. warrant the inference that they were
either assignees or grantees of the thing patented, within the
meaning of the act of Congress or the decisions of this court.
All that the indenture offered in evidence showed'wa8 the
nature and extent that the defendants had used the invention, but, as is well contended by the counsel for the plaintiff,
it proved nothing more. It did not prove, or tend to prove,
that the defendants were rightfully in the enjoyment of the
thing patented during the original term of the patent, axid
having failed to establish any right or license to use their
machinery during the extended term by any other proof, they
appear in the record as naked infringers.
-Their right to continue to use the machinery as againstthe
plaintiff is predicated ill the instruction upon the assumption
that they had a title to it, and were rightfully in the-use of it
undear that title, before and at the time the original letters
patent expired. That assumed fact findsno support in the
evidence reported.' It is .clearly error for the court, in its
instruction to the jury, to assume a material fact as proved,
of which there is no evidence in 'the case. United States v.
Breitling, 20 How., 255. And when the finding of the juiy
accords with the theory of the instruction, thus assumed with-out evidence, the error is of a character to deserve correction.
Another position is assumed by the counsel of the plaintif
-which ought not to be passed over without a brief notice.
They contend that the invention of the plaintiff, as described
iti the letters paten't, is for a process, and not for a -machine
or machinery; and that the act of Congress, extending the
benefit of renewals to .assigpiees and grantees of the right to
use the" thing patented, when properly construed, does not
include patents for a process, but should be confined to
patents for machines. That question, .if
properly presented,

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

225

'Uhitd Staiea v. Pacheo -d al.

would involve the construction of the letters patent in this
case, as well as-the act of Congress; but as the patent is not
in the record, it is not possible to determine it at the present
time, and we only advert to it that it may not' appear to have
escaped attentior.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, with costs, and
with directions to issue a new venir&

THH UNM D STATEs, APPELLANTS, v. ROSA Plwneoo AND OTHBAS,
DEVISEES UNDER THe- LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT Or JuAN A.
SANCMZ DH PAOHECO, DBOASBD.
Where there was a grant of land in California in'luded within certain boundaries
laid down on a map, and the grant said it was made for two square leagues,
but the map and the evidence clearly show that the intention we. to give to
the grantee a rancho of at least two leagues on each side line, the equity of
the claim requires that it should be confirmed to that extent situate wityi the

given out-boundary.
It is for the United Stats to grant the legal title.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued .by Mr. Stanton for the United States, no couisel appearing for the appellees.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 31st of July, 1834, there was granted to Madame
P'acheco a rancho of land, "included between the Arroyo de
]as Nueces and the Sierra de Golgones, bouuded by the said
places, and bounded by the ranchos Las 3 untas, San Ramon,
and Monte Diablo." This description was accompanied by a
diseno, better defining the exterior boundaries than usual. But
the grant has the following condition, amongst others: "The
land of which mention is made is two square leagues, a little
more or less, as shown by the map which goes with the expeVOL. Xxir.

15

