DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

225

'Uhitd Staiea v. Pacheo -d al.

would involve the construction of the letters patent in this
case, as well as-the act of Congress; but as the patent is not
in the record, it is not possible to determine it at the present
time, and we only advert to it that it may not' appear to have
escaped attentior.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, with costs, and
with directions to issue a new venir&

THH UNM D STATEs, APPELLANTS, v. ROSA Plwneoo AND OTHBAS,
DEVISEES UNDER THe- LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT Or JuAN A.
SANCMZ DH PAOHECO, DBOASBD.
Where there was a grant of land in California in'luded within certain boundaries
laid down on a map, and the grant said it was made for two square leagues,
but the map and the evidence clearly show that the intention we. to give to
the grantee a rancho of at least two leagues on each side line, the equity of
the claim requires that it should be confirmed to that extent situate wityi the

given out-boundary.
It is for the United Stats to grant the legal title.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued .by Mr. Stanton for the United States, no couisel appearing for the appellees.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 31st of July, 1834, there was granted to Madame
P'acheco a rancho of land, "included between the Arroyo de
]as Nueces and the Sierra de Golgones, bouuded by the said
places, and bounded by the ranchos Las 3 untas, San Ramon,
and Monte Diablo." This description was accompanied by a
diseno, better defining the exterior boundaries than usual. But
the grant has the following condition, amongst others: "The
land of which mention is made is two square leagues, a little
more or less, as shown by the map which goes with the expeVOL. Xxir.

15

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. PacT~eo at A.

diente. The magistrate who may give the possession will cause
it to be measured in conformity with the ordinance, for the
purpose of marking out the boundaries, leaving the surpluo
which may result to the nation, for its convenient uses."
The board of commissioners held that this condition must
govern as to quantity, and decreed two square leagues.
Ii the District Court, that decree was reversed, and the land,
as above described, and as it is represented on the plan, was
decreed to the clainants, regardless of any exact quantity.
From this decree the United States appealed. The validity of
the grant is not disputed; the contest respects quantity only.
The plan presented by the party, and referred to in the
grant, will furnish a guide to the surveyor, as respects boundaries within which the survey shall be made. But, in ascertaining the quantity intended to be given, we think neither
the general description, nor the call for "two square leagues,"
found in the condition of the grant, can be relied on, as they
are inconsistent, and plainly contradict each other, and the
adoption of the one inust necessarily reject the other. 'To
find the true quantity intended to .be granted, we are com-pelled to rely on other title papers and proofs.
The map shows, when taken in connection with the evidence
of witnesses, explaining its contents, that the body of land petitioned for and granted was something more than two leagues
long, and about two leagues wide. To this effect, theoparol evidence is conclusive; and the map is equally so on its face, however inaccurate it may possibly be found when the 'bjects calle l
for, and laid down on the map, are sought on the ground. Nothing could be more manifest than that the grant was intended
to give to Madame Pacheco a rancho of at least two leagues
on each side line, making four leagues in superficies. And
as the plan is part of and accompanies the last title paper, we
feel bound to give it due weight, in reaching the undoubted
equity of the'claim.
This court is not dealing with a legal title; none such can
exist until there is a survey, the land severed from the public
domain, and the public title transferred by a -fnalgrant from
the United States into private ownership.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

227

Sinnot t Al.v. DaveiyMr et al.

What precise tract of land is to be surveyed and granted to
Pacheco's heirs, "according to the priuciples of equity," must
be ascertained in this proceeding, to the- end that the United
States may grant the legal title, in satisfaction of the treaty;
and a concession by leagues being the rule, and one extending
to indefinite out-boundaries the exception, we hold that it was
intended in this case to grant equal to two leagues square, situate within the given out-boundary; that is to say, four leagues
in one tract, if so much is found in the general description and
diseno.
The decree of the District Court is therefore reversed, and
the cause remanded to that court, to be further proceeded in,
according to this opinion.
Jom 0. SINNOT, SAMUEL WOLF, AND Jxs
SANDS. PLAINTIFFS
IN ERROR, V. GORHA DAVENPORT AND OTHERS, C0OMMISSIONERS
OF PILOTAGE OF THE BAY AND HARBOR OF MOBILE.
L law of the State of Alabama, passed in 1854, requiring the owners. of steamboats navigating the waters of the State, before such boat shall leave the port
of Mobile, to file a statement in writing, in the office of the probate judge of
kobile county-seiting forth, first, the name of the vessel; second, the name of
the owner or owners; third, his or their place or places pf residence; fourth, the
interest each has in the vessel-is in conflict with the act of Congress passed
on the 17th of February, 1793, so far as the State law is brought to bear upon a
vessel which had taken out a license, and was duly enrolled under the act of
Congress for carrying on the coasting trade, and plied between New Orleans
and the cities of Montgomery and Wetumpka, in. Alabama.
The State law, in such a case, is therefore unconstitutional and void.
An act of.Congress, passed in pursuance of a clear authority under the Consti.
tution, is the supreme law of the land, and any law of a State in conflict with
it is inoperative and void.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Alabama by a writ of error issued under the 25th
section of the judiciary act.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. PAilps for the plaintiffs in error, and.
submitted or a printed brief by m.
. C. Clay, jun., for the
rppellees.

