192

SUPREME COURT.
Veo-dn v. CoLem.

SAMUEL VERDEN, APPELLANT, V. IsAAo CoLEEMZ.
No appeal can be taken from the final decision of a State court of Iawt re=
under the 25th section of the judiciary act, to the Supreme Court of tho
United States. A writ of error alone can bring up the caue.

THIS was an appeal from the Supreme Court of the State
of Indiana, purporting to be brought up under the twenty-fifth
section of the judiciary act.
It was a case of foreclosure of a mortgage brought in the
Benton Circuit Court (State court.) In the progress of the
trial, there was a bill of exceptions signed and sealed by the
presiding judge, and the case then carried up by appeal to the
Supreme Court of the State. That court affirmed the judgment of the court below, upon which an appeal was prayed to
the United States Supreme Court, which prayer was granted.
The appeal bond recited that Samuel Verden hath "prosecuted a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the United
States," &c., but no writ of error was sued out.
. It is not necessary to notice the nature of the case any
further.

Mr. Justice GATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Colenman sued Verden in a State court of Indiana, on a note
6f hand, and a mortgage of lands, to secure its payment. On
various pleadings and prooth, the cause was submitted for
judgment to the court, the parties having dispensed with a
jury. Juidgment was rendered against Verden, who appealed
to the Supreme Court of Indiana. There the judgment of
the circuit was affirmed.
This occurred on the 26th day of June, 1858. And then
we find the fbllowing entry of record: "And afterwards, to
wit, at a court began and held on the 24th of Xay, 1858, and
continued from day to day till July 16th, 1858, at which time
,lome the appellant, by Hon D. Mace, his attorney, and praye
ln appeal to the United States Supreme Court, which prayeis granted."

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

i9

Lytle et al. v. State of Arkansar et al.

Bond was given to prosecute the appeal, and ie clerk certifies the record to be a true copy of the proceedings.
No appeal can be taken from the fina do:cision of a State
court of last resort, under the twenty-fift section of the judiciary act, to the Supreme Court of the United States. A writ
of error alone can bring up the cause. We refer to the appendix of Curtis's Digest for the mode.
It is ordered that the case be dismissed.

ROBINSON LJYTLE AND LYDIA L.

HIS WIFE, NATHAN HM CLOYEs,

AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. THE STATE OF ARKAN-

SAS, CHARLES

B.

BERTRAND, AND OTHERS.

Where the decision of a State court was against the validity of an entry of land
which had been allowed by the proper officers of the United States, this enurt
has jurin'iction, under the 25th section of the judiciary act, to revise that
judgment, whether the invalidity was decreed upon a question of fact or of
law.
The adjudication of the register and receiver is subject to revision in the courts
of justice, on proof; showing thki the. entry was obtained by fraud and the
imposition of false tc.timony on those officers, as to settlement and cultivation.
This court has so decided heretolbre.
Over the questions raised in the court below, ofthe effect of a bona fide purchase
and of the statute of limitations, this court has no jurisdiction.
But the evidence shows that the entry was obtained by false affidavits as to residence and cultivation. The judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas is
therefore affirmed.
THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Arkansas by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the judiciary act. It was a chancery case, but correctly
brought up by writ of error. See preceding case of Verden v.
Coleman.
It wps before this court at a preceding term, and is reported
in 9 Howard, 314., -Itwill be perceived, by referring to that
case, that this court decided that the pre-emption .act of 1830
conferred certain rights upon settlers upon public lands, upon.

proof of settlement or improvement being made to the satis-.
1S
VOL. XXII.

