SUPREME COURT.
Je~r v. Hewilt et al.

stituted. He alleges, among other things, that th6-defendants
whose firm name is on. the back of the note placed it there for
the purpose of becoming sureties and security to him as payee
for the amount therein- specified. That allegation, to use the
language of the statute of Minnesota, is expressed in ordinary
and concise language, and in such a manner as to be easily
understood,, and that is all which is required by the law of the
Territory prescribing the rules of pleading in civil cases. Under the system of pleading which prevailed in the courts of
the Territory, the objection 'cannot be sustained.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory is
therefore affirmed with costs

JOHN P. JETER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JA.iEs EDWMT,
VILLE HERON, AND MARY CONRAD.

n,'

Where a mortgage of land and slaves, in Louisiana, was made to the Bank of Louis.
iana, the property sold in the manner pointed out by the charter of the bank, the
purchasers applied to the District Court, (State court,) under a statute of Louisiana, for a monition, citing all persons who objected to the sale to make their
objection known , that court decided that the sale was null and void, but the
Supreme Court reversed the judgment as to the widow, and those claiming
under her ; this judgment cuts off all the objections that apply to the manner
of conducting the sale, and to the form of the judgment in'the court below.
The Supreme Court of the State decided that the courts below had jurisdiction
of the case, and that decision is binding upon this court. The whole matter
now in controversy has therefore been legally adjudicated by the courb of the
State.

Tmis case was brought up.by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
It was an action brought by John P. Jeter, a citizen of
Louisiana, resident -in New Orleans, against James Hewitt
and David Heron, citizens of the State of Kentucky, temporarily within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court for the district
of Louisiana.
The nature and history of the case are stated in the opinion
,)f the court. It was submitted to the Circuit Court upon the
pleadings, depositions, oral testimony, and arguments of coun-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Jeter v. Hewill et al.

sel,
the
the
the

which found the facts substantially as they are narrated in
opinion of this court, and then dismissed the petition of
plaintiff. A writ of eror was sued out, yhich brought
case up to this court.

It was argued by .M-. Carlisle, upon a brief filed by himself
and Mr.Badger, for th, plaintiff in erior, and by .2f?. Benjamin
for the defendants.
As the judgment of this court turned upon the point that it
was resjclidcata,only the arguments upon that subject will be
reported.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error made the -following
points, amongst others:
VI. The validity of this title set up by the defendants is not
resjudieata,as maintained by counsel in the court below. The
monition suit on which this pretension is founded could have
no such effect, if the proceedings in the fifth District Court
were a nullitv. This seems clear upon principle.
5 Monition Act, B. and C.'s Dig., 586.
City Bank v.Walden, 1 Ann., 4'7.
16 Louisiana R., 596.
Besides, the court where the monition suit was prosecuted
had no jurisdiction over the original suit, and could have none
over that which was merely incidental.
Again: The judgment in the monition suit was not a judgment upon the merits, even against Mrs. Ford, and was not at
all against Jeter.
C. C., 2265.
Finally: The decree of homologation, in its terms, seems
reaUy to come to nothing, since it only confirms and homologates the sale, "in so far as the same has not been .opposed,"
while the record shows thatlt was totally opposed.
VII. Jeter is not estopped to claim against the sheriff's sale,
or to show the nullity of the proceedings upon which it is
based.
In this respect, this case is in striking contrast with Erwin
VOL xxI.
23

SUPREME COURT.
Jeter v. Hewitt et aZ.

v. Lowry, in 7 Howard. There, Hector McNeill, under whom
Lowry claimed, had actively participated in the proceedings
at the sale, had joined in the selection of appraisers, had requested the marshal to offer the land and negroes together,
which was done, and all this in the presence of Erwin; and,
upon the faith of this conduct, Erwin purchased. In the present case, on the contrary, it isdistinctly proven, by two witnesses, that Jeter, "in a loud and audible tone," announced
"to the sheriff and the by-standers" that he was the owner of
the property, and forbade the sale of it; and this announcement was made before the property was adjudicated to Hewitt
& Heron."
"He made his objections known publicly to the crowd."
The sheriff answered, that "he would proceed with the
sale."
The only facts relied on by the defendants, as creating an
estoppel, are, first, that Jeter was present at the sale, and,
when the property was first offered, bid for it $70,000, and it
was knocked down to him; and secondly, that in 1852 he
joined with Mrs. Ford in making a deed for forty arpens of
the land, to Hewitt & Heron, for $2,000.
As to the first, his bid was for the protection of his own interest, and to avoid litigation. He had already paid Mrs. Ford
$5,000, and he had agreed to pay, not only the debts charged
on this property, but all the debts. Such a fact, even if the
other party had acted upon it, could create no estoppel.
Hearne v. Rogers, 17 Eng. C.L. Rep., 451, 452.
But Hewitt & Heron did not act upon it. The sheriff refused Jeter's draft on Hill, McLean, & Co., of :New Orleans,
with whom he had arranged for the money, and refused him
time to go to New Orleans to produce the money, and "de manded that he should pay in cash the amount of his bid
within half an hour, or he would set up the property and sell
it again, which he did."
Then it was that Jeter gave notice of his title, and forbade
the sale; and Hewitt & heron purchased under this notice.
As to the deed made in 1852, so far from importing a recognition of the title of Hewitt & Heron, it would rather signify

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

855

Jeter v. Hewit et al.

an admission by them that, at least as to this fragment of forty
acres, it required confirmation by a deed from Jeter.
In no.view of these facts can they operte an estoppel. The
general current of authorities, English and American, establishes the principle that a declaration in pais shall not work an
estoppel, unless it appears affirmatively that it was intended
that the party for or to whom it is made should act on the
faith of it, and that lie actually did so act, and will be prejudiced by the contrary assertion. If it be necessary to cite
authorities for this, they will be found collected in Hare &
Wallace's note to Howard & Hudson, (2 Ell. and BI., 13,.Amer.
ed.,) and in the principal case. Elere there was express warning given.
Upon the question that the merits of the case were not open
for review in this court, Mr. Benjamin made the following
points:
I. This action, plainly, is based on the assumption that the
proceedings in the State courts of Louisiana (under which
the title of Ford's succession to the property was divested,
and the property was sold to defendants), are an absolute
nullity.
It is an attempt, indirectly, to bring before the Federal
courts jurisdiction of a question which, under the decisions
of this court, cannot be examined by them.
Had the courts of Louisiana jurisdiction of the property appertaining to Ford's succession, and have they exercised that
jurisdiction by disposing of that property? Manifestly, yes.
How, then, can that disposition of the property be supervised or revised by the Federal courts?
This court has always declined to permit the proceedings
of even the inferior State courts to be attached collaterally
before it.
Tarver v. Tarver, 9 Peters, 174.
Gaines v' Chew et al., 2 How., 619, 644.
Fonvergne et al. v. City of New Orleans, 18 How., 471.
Hagan v. Preston, decided at present term.
In this case, the plaintiff goes to the extravagant length of

SUPREME COURT.
Jeter v. Hewitt et al.

calling on the court not to annul the proceedings of an inferior
State court as irregular or illegal, but to treat the final decision
of the Supreme Court of Louisiana as an absolute nullity.
The form chosen for the action (a simple petitory action or
ejectment) is a transparent device used by plaintiff to avoid
the necessity of bringing an action to set aside the judgment
of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, he being conscious that
such action would be utterly untenable.
11. Jeter was a party to the suit determined by the Supreme
Court of Louisiana, and it forms resjudcata.
It is true, he was not a party by name; but the opinion of
the Supreme Court is explicit, that Mrs. Ford's action as executrix was for the use of Jeter. Its language is: "We think
it inequitable to permit this sale to be questioned by the executrix, whom we consider as merely attempting to aid Jeter,
her vendee and agent, in a speculation, at the expense of these
bona fide purchasers, under the guise of representing a small
minority of the creditors, whom she personally and Jeter are
bound to pay."
But, aside from this decision, the record permits no doubt
that the suit decided in Louisiana was Jeter's suit. In the
sale from Mrs. Ford to him, he exacted a promise that she
would furnish him "my letter of substitution to appear for
-me and in my stead, t6 appear and act in any court, * * *
touching matters or interests in any manner connected with
the active or passive properties, goods, or effects, of the aforesaid succession."
She did give him just such a power; and, having sold to
him her entire interest in the estate, and obtained his obligation to pay the debts, she withdrew from -the whole business,
'lehving to Jeter, who alone had an interest, permission to use
fier name, and it was Jeter who brought the suit.
Having once litigated his rights through all the courts of
Louisiana, the plaintiff cannot renew the contest in the Federal courts. The exceptio rei adjudicalm is a complete bar to
his suit.
I1.The monition, proceedings, and judgment on them, are
in t*,e nature o'f proceedings in rern, and bind all the world.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

357

Ateer v. Hewitt et al.

even those ignorant of their pendency-afortiori, do they bind
one who, like Jeter, was not only conusant, but was active in
opposition.
The monition law of Louisiana (Acts 1834, p. 125, Revised
Statutes, 1852, p. 425) is a wise and beneficial statute, and
should be liberally construed. It was" passed for the protection of innocent purchasers at sheriff's sales, and by the fourth
section the court that issued the process had jurisdiction.
By the sixth section, the judgmeht is conclusive evidence
that the proceedings of the court on the monition were regular; and by the seveLh section, the judgment of the court
confirming the sale operated as res judicata, and a complete bar against all persons, vhether of age or minors, whether
present or absent; and the judgment is to be considered as
"full proof, and conclusive that the sale was duly made in
virtue of a judgment or order legally and regularly pronounced
on the interests of parties duly represented."
There is nothing in,the 8th section which can release the
plaintiff from the effect of this estoppel, because "notices cf
the sale and appraisement were served by the sheriff, by
leaving them odi the plantation with the overseer, and plaintiff
had notice of the sale, and was present at it, and bid for the
property."
Besides, plaintiff was in the place and stead. of Ford, and
had his rights, and no more. But Ford had confessed judg
ment in the original mortgage, and had thereby waived citation to make defence.
When a mortgage is granted with confession of judgment,
executory process issues at once without citation, (Code Practice, 734,) and is in the nature of the ft. fa. that is issued on
such judgments as are confessed in court.
1V. Jeter's presence at the sale, his bidding, his failure to
notify other bidders of any opposition to the sale, form a complete estoppel en pais, as well under the principles of equity
jurisprudence as by the settled rules of the law of Louisiana
Harris v. Denison, 8 L. R., 543.
Dozer v. Squires and al., 13 L. R., 180.
Walker v. Allen and al., 19 L. R., 308.

SU PIt'EME COURT.
Jeer v. Hewitt et al.

M6Masters v. Commissi6ners, &c., 1 Annual, 11.
Muir, Syndic, v. Henry and al., 2 Annual, 598.
Moore v. Lambeth, 5 Annual, 67.
Bank of Louisiana v. Ford, 9 Annual, 299.
V. Both Mrs. Ford and Jeter were parties to a deed, lVy
which, in consideration of $2,000, they ratified the title of the
purchasers.
This deed was passed on the 11th April, 1851. It had
reference to the property now in dispute. Compare description in deed with testimony of Robert Maurin, the plan H,
the testimony of P. 0. Ayraud, and T. Ayraud, Chapman's
testimony, and the description in the mortgage to Bank of
Louisiania, the identity of the tract will be apparent. Besides
which, the recitals of the deed admit that the land which
surrounds that described by its terms, on each side and in the
rear, belongs to defendants.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the
court.
The plaintiff commenced this suit to recover a plantation
and slaves, with the horses, mules,* implements, and other
things enumerated in the petition, destined to the use and
convenience of the plantation, and for an account of rents and
issues for a term of years. He deduces his title from Christopher Ford, who was in possession of the plantation at his
death, in 1849, through a conveyance from Louisa W. Ford,
the widow, executrix, and instituted heir of her deceased
husband, dated in November, 1850.
The defendants show, that in November, 1845, two banking
corporations of Louisiana (Bank of Louisiana and New Orleans Canal and Banking Company) sold to Christopher Ford
this plantation and twenty-eight slaves, for the price of
$40,000, a portion of which was paid in cash, and for the
remainder a credit.was given, and that Ford mortgaged the
property conveyed to him, and sixty-eight, other slaves, which
he agreed to place on the plantation. On the same day, he
obtained from the Bank of Louisiana a loan of money, which
was secured by another mortgage on the same pxoper.ty. At

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Jeter v. Hewitt e al.

the time of the death of Ford, he was in arrears for the debt
and interest that had accrued.
In the mortgage to the Bank of Louisiana, Ford agrees not
to alienate, deteriorate, or encumber, the property mortgaged,
and confesses judgment for the sum of money to be paid.
He renounces the benefit of the laws thlat require property
seized on execution to be sold on credit or after dppraisement,
and agrees, that if the debt shall not be paid according to the
tenor of the mortgage, then the banliing company may obtain
an order of seizure and sale, and sell the mortgaged premises
and slaves by public auction, for cash, after an advertisement
of thirty days. He waives his privilege to be sued in any
other district than the first judicial district of the State, and
agrees that process may issue from the District Court for the
first district, or any other court in :New Orleans having jurisdiction.
The charter of the bank provides, that upon all mortgages
executed under the act, the bank shall have the right to seize
the property mortgaged, in whatever hands it may be, in the
same manner and with the same facilities that it could be
seized in the hands of the mortgagor, notwithstanding aay
sale or change of the title or possession thereof, by descent or
otherwise.
On the 16th December, 1850, after the conveyance of Mrs.
Ford to the plaintiff, the Bank of Louisiana instituted a suit
upon the secbnd mortgage above mentioned; a writ of seizure
and sale isshed, and the property was advertised for sale the
1st February, 1851. Jeter was present at the sale that took
place on that day, bid for the property the sum of seventy
thousand dollars, and it was adjudicated to him at that price.
He offered a draft for the amount of the execution, on merchants residing in New Orleans, and asked for time to go for
the money; and these being refused, the property was again
offered for sale, and purchased by Heron & Hewitt for the price
of sixty-six thousand dollars; and thereupon the sheriff executed-a deed to the purchasers, conformably to the adjudication.
This sum being insufficient to discharge the encumbrances
on the property, proceedings were taken for the seizure and

SUPREME COURT.
Jetcr v. Hetvill Ct at.

sale of other slaves, which were sold in September, 1851, and
adjudicated to the defendants.
The defendants resist the claim of the plaintiff under these
titles. The plautiff objects to them1. That Ford, the mortgagor, was dead at the commencement of these proceedings, and that the notice issued to him
was nugatory'; that his heir and executrix was not notified at
all, and did not reside in the parish of Ascension, nor have
any title to the plantation at which the notices of the seizure
were left; and that the plaintiff is not concluded by'his presence at the sale and bid for the property, having forbade the
sale before the offer at which the defendants became the purchasers was made.
. 2. That the sale was irregular and illegal, in respect of the
notice of the seizure, the advertisements, appraisement, and
refusal to allow the plaintiff time to complete his purchase.
3. That the fifth District Court was not authorized to entertain a suit for a thihg in the parish of Ascension ; and that, if
consent could give jurisdiction-; the consent given by Ford-in
his mortgage was personal; and binding only in respect to his
own privilege, and did not affect his heir or her assignee.
-'The purchasers, Heron & Hewitt, in.April, 1852, applied
to the District (burt of New Orleans, under a statute of Louisiana, for a mo-iio.o,

citing all persons who can set up any

right to the property adjudicated, in consequence of any informality in the order, decree, or judgment of the court, under
whic.h the sale was made, or any irregularity or illegality in
the appraisements and advertisements, in time or manner of
"ale, or for any oter defect whatsoever, to show cause why ihe
sale so made shoulJ not be confirmed and homoloated, and,
after due proceedings .inthe premises, that the said sales be
confirmed, homologated, and made the final judgment of the
court.
The executrix (.Louisa W. Ford) appeared to this monition,
and made opposition to the homologation of the sale, and disclosed at large the objections above specified, and prayed that
the sale be declared null and .void, and that the property
might be restored to her possession.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

361

Aer v. Hewitt et al.
To this opposition Heron & Hewitt replied, that they were
bona fide purchasers at a public sale by the sheriff of Ascension, tinder a writ from the court, without any knowledge of
neglect, or illegality, or want-of jurisdiction; that the opponent had sold her interest in the property, and was estopped
to oppose the sale by her acts. They pleaded that the mortgage contained h confession of judgment, and no notice was
necessary to any one to obtain a judgment; and assert there
is no just cause to deny the homologation of the sales.
The District Court, at the Kovember term, 1852, entered an
order describing the property embraced in the sheriff's deed,
and reciting the facts relative to the grant of the monition,
and the motion for the homologation of the sale, and conclude:
"The court being satisfied, from inspection of the record
and evidence adduced, that all the formalities of the law have
been complied with; that the advertisements required have
been inserted and published for the space of time aiid in the
manner required by law; that the property has been correctly
described, and the price at which it was purchased truly
stated; and there being but one opposition filed thereto, to
wit: by Mrs. Christopher Ford, it is adjudged and decreed
that said sheriff's sale be confirmed and bomolog~ted according to law, in so far as the same has not been opposed."
The cause was continued in the District Court, upon the
opposition proceedings of Mrs. Ford.
In June.'1858, the District Court rendered the judgment
upon this opposition, that the sale was null and void, for the
reasons pleaded, and condemned the petitioners (Hewitt &
Heron) to costs. An appeal was taken to the Supreme Court
of Louisiana. That court rendered its judgment in 1854.
The' court say: The appellants are bona fide purchasers at
a judicial sale of the plantation and slaves,. at the instance of
a mortgage creditor, at-a fair price, which has been paid, and
possession taken, and improvements made. That, as executrix,
Mrs. Ford had done nothing, except toobtain probate of the
will, and as heir she has sold her interest to Jeter in the estate,
he covenanting to pay the debts, and that she gave him a power

SUPREME COURT.
Jefer v. HadIt e aL

to sell and administer the estate. That Jeter had failed to
comply with his bid at the sheriff's sale, and that then the
appellants had become the purchasers, settled with mortgage
creditors, and took possession. "Under these circumstances,"
the court conclude, "we think it inequitable to permit this
sale to be questioned by the executrix, whom we consider as
merely attempting to aid Jeter, her vendee and agent, in a
speculation, at the expense of these bona fide purchasers,
under the guise of representing a small minority of the creditors, whom she personally and Jeter are bound to pay. It is
obvious, under the facts above stated, that neither of them,
Jeter and Mrs. Ford, would be permitted personally to question the sale, on account of the alleged informalities." And
thereupon the decree of the District Court was reversed, and
the opposition dismissed, reserving to the creditors their right,
if any, to sue for a rescission of the sale. Bank of Louisiana v.
Ford, 9 Ann., 299.
The effect of the judgment confirming and homologating
the sale is declared in the statute that authorizes the monition
to issue, in favor of purchasers of property "at sheriffs' sales,"
at those "made by the syndics of insolvents' estates," at those
"made by the authority of justice," or of courts, and to enable
them "to protect themselves from eviction from the property
so purchased," and "from any responsibility to the possessors
of the same." It confers upon the order made by the court
upon the monition, "the authority of res judcata," so as to
operate "as a complete bar against all persons, whether of
age or minors, whether present or absent, who may thereafter
claim the property so sold, in consequence of all illegality or
informality in the proceedings, whether before or after judgment;" and the judgment of homologation is to be received
and considered "as full and conclusive proof that the sale was
duly made according to law, in virtue of a judgment or order
legally and regularly pronounced on the interest of the parties
duly represented," saving and exdepting, "that It shall not
render a sale valid made in virtue of a judgment, when the
party'cast was not duly cited to make defence."
The judgment of the District Court homologating the mle

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Tder v. Hewitt et at.

concluded all parties except Mrs. Ford, who had filed opposition to the. order. Subsequently the Supreme' Court overruled her opppsition, assigning as the reason that the sale was
fair, the purchasers bona fide, and the opponent had no interest in the subject of contest. The plaintiff, whether we consider him as acting independently or iri connection with Mrs.
Ford, and under the "guise of her name" and character, is
affected by these orders.
By the very terms of the statute, all the objeotions that
apply to the manner of conducting the sale and to the form of
the judgment are cut off by the judgment of homologation;
The only question that the judgment leaves open is, whether
the court that rendered the original judgment had jurisdiction
of the person. But this question was presented td the District
Court and the Supreme Court upon the opposition of Mrs.
Ford, in the same manner in which it is presented to this
court. The facts of the death of Ford, the probate of his will
in the parish of Ascension before the order of seizure, the
seizure within three days from the date of the order, the
notice directed to Ford, and left at the house of the overseer,
in the absence of Mrs. Ford, and after her sale to Jeter, the
presence of Jeter at the sale, the adjudication to him of the
property upon his bid, and the resale upon his neglect to comply with the terms of the sale, and the purchase by Heron &
Hewitt, with the sheriff's deeds to him, were presented to
those courts upon the evidence that has been submitted to
this court.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana was, that
as executrix, Mrs. Ford did not really and truly represent the
interest of the creditors of her husband in her opposition., and
that she used that title to protect her own interest and that of
Jeter, her agent and vendee-but that they would not be permitted "personally to question the sale, on the score of the
alleged irregularities."
The'authority of resjudicata as a medium of proof is acknowledged in the civil code of Louisiana; and its precise effect in
the particular case under consideration is ascertained in the
statute that allows the proceeding by monition. Under tf'c

SUPREMN1E COURT.
Aepto d a. v. CJommis3sioneraof the County of Davlmg.

system of that State, the maintenance of public order, the
repose of society, and the quiet of families, require that what
has been definitely determined by competent tribunals shall
be accepted as irrefragable legal truth. So deeply is this principle implanted in her jurisprudence, that commentators upon
it have said, the resjdicatarenders white that which is black,
and straight that which is crooked. .Facitexcurvo rectum, cx
albo nigrum. No other evidence can afford strength to the
presumption of truth it creates, and no argument can detract
from its legal efficacy.
The jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, in cases
like the present, is derived exclusively from the fact that the
parties are citizens of different States. The rights of these
parties originate in the law of Louisiana, and must be ascertained by a reference to the principles adopted and administered by her constituted authorities. We are not invested
with power to review the sentences of her courts, except in a
few cases arising under the Constitution and laws of the
United States; nor is it our province to augment or diminish
their value, or to place any different estimate upon them than
they have in the municipal code of the State. They are entitled
to the same force and effect here as they have in Louisiana.
The statement of the case of these parties shows conclusively that the whole subject of this controversy has been legally
submitted to the tribunals of Louisiana, and that the adjudication was in favor of the defendants.
This was the decision of the Circuit Court of the United
States in Louisiana, from whose judgment this writ of error
has been taken. It remains for us only to affirm that judgment.
Judgment affirmed.
WILLlAM IL AsPin ALL, JOSEPH.W. Aisop, HERY CHAUZcEY,
CHARLES GOULD, AND SAMUEL L. M. BARBOUR, PLAINTIFFS,
v. THE BOARD OF COMISSI ERS OF THE CouNTY ov DAvmss
The charter of the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Company, passed by the Leg
ilature of Indiana in 1848, and a supplement 2.1
1849, authorized the county

