DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

227

Sinnot t Al.v. DaveiyMr et al.

What precise tract of land is to be surveyed and granted to
Pacheco's heirs, "according to the priuciples of equity," must
be ascertained in this proceeding, to the- end that the United
States may grant the legal title, in satisfaction of the treaty;
and a concession by leagues being the rule, and one extending
to indefinite out-boundaries the exception, we hold that it was
intended in this case to grant equal to two leagues square, situate within the given out-boundary; that is to say, four leagues
in one tract, if so much is found in the general description and
diseno.
The decree of the District Court is therefore reversed, and
the cause remanded to that court, to be further proceeded in,
according to this opinion.
Jom 0. SINNOT, SAMUEL WOLF, AND Jxs
SANDS. PLAINTIFFS
IN ERROR, V. GORHA DAVENPORT AND OTHERS, C0OMMISSIONERS
OF PILOTAGE OF THE BAY AND HARBOR OF MOBILE.
L law of the State of Alabama, passed in 1854, requiring the owners. of steamboats navigating the waters of the State, before such boat shall leave the port
of Mobile, to file a statement in writing, in the office of the probate judge of
kobile county-seiting forth, first, the name of the vessel; second, the name of
the owner or owners; third, his or their place or places pf residence; fourth, the
interest each has in the vessel-is in conflict with the act of Congress passed
on the 17th of February, 1793, so far as the State law is brought to bear upon a
vessel which had taken out a license, and was duly enrolled under the act of
Congress for carrying on the coasting trade, and plied between New Orleans
and the cities of Montgomery and Wetumpka, in. Alabama.
The State law, in such a case, is therefore unconstitutional and void.
An act of.Congress, passed in pursuance of a clear authority under the Consti.
tution, is the supreme law of the land, and any law of a State in conflict with
it is inoperative and void.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Alabama by a writ of error issued under the 25th
section of the judiciary act.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. PAilps for the plaintiffs in error, and.
submitted or a printed brief by m.
. C. Clay, jun., for the
rppellees.

SUPREME COURT.
Sinnwt d~d. v. Davenyor e a&

Mr. Phillips gave a history of the case, and then proceeded:
The construction given to this act by the Supreme Court of
the State includes boats engaged in commerce between the
ports of another State and a port within its own territory.
See cases of Cuba, Swan, and Bell, 28 Ala. Rep., 185. And
the question thus presented is, whether this is not an interference with the power to regulate commerce, within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States, and in conflict
with the acts of Congress on the same subject matter.
Commencing with the act of 1st September, 1789, 1 Stat.,
55, we find a provision for registering vessels, coupled with
the declaration, that vessels so registered "shall be deemed
and taken to be and denominated vessels of the United States,
and entitled to the benefl. granted by any law of the United
States to ships or vessel4 of the descriptions aforesaid."
This registry is to be made with the collector of the district
to which the vessel belongs, and the'form of a certificate is
given, to be signed by the Secretary.of the Treasury, the party
applying having first made the prescribed oath, which, aniong
other, contains the names of the owners and their residences.
Bond is to be given that the certificate thus issued shall not
be transferred, and provision is made that, in case of any
change of ownership, it is to be given up to be cancelled, and
a new certificate issued. The 22d section of the act makes
similar provisions as to enrolment.
These provisions are re-enacted in the act of December 31,
1792, 1 Stat., 287; 18th February, 1793, 1,Stat., 305.
The statute of 2d March, 1797, makes provision for the case
of a sale by process of law. 1 Stat., 498.
The 2d section of trie act 2d March, 1819, authorizes vessels
licensed to trade between the different districts of the United
States, to carry on said trade "between the districts included
within the aforesaid great districts, and between a State in
one and an adjoining State in another great district, in manner and subject only to the regulations that are now- by law
required to be observed by such ships or vessels in trading
from one district to another in the same State, or from a
4istrict in one State to a-district in the next adjoining State."

DECEMBER TERM. 1859.
Siznnot d al. v. Davenort et a.

By the act 29th July, 1850, 9 Stat., 440, it is provided that
no bill of sale, mortgage, &c., shall be valid against any other
person than the grantor or mortgagor, and those having actual
notice, unless the same be recorded in the office of the cal.
lector of eustoms where the vessel is registered or enrolled.
It is made the duty of the collector to keep a record of all
such conveyances, and shall, when required, certify the same,
setting forth the names of the owners, their proportionate
shares, &c., for which fees are allowed.
The power to regulate commerce conferred in the Constitution of the United States includes the regulation of navigation, and was one of the primary objects which led to its
adoption.
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat., 567.
State of Pennsylvania v. Wheeling Bridge, 18 How., 481.
The power to regulate navigation is the power to prescribe\
rules in conformity with which navigation must be carried on.
It extends to the persons who conduct it, 4s well as to the
instruments used.
Cooley v. Portwardbns Phil., 12 How., 816.
Is the power to regulite commerce thus granted to the
Federal Government exclusive? In Gibbons v. Ogden the
court say: "It has been concluded that, as the word 'regulate'
implies in its nature full power over the thing to be regulated,
it eicludes necessarily the action of all others that would perform the same operation on the same thing. That regulation
is designed for the entire result applying to those parts which
remain as they were, as well as to those which are altered.
It produces a utiform whole, which is as much disturbed and
deranged by changing. what the regulating power designs to
leave untouched, as that on which it has operated. There is
great force in the argument, and the court is not satisfied that
it has been refuted."
Ir. Miln v. State of New 'York, (11 Peters, 130,) which
involved the qonstitutionality of an act requiring captains of
vessels arriving in the port of that State to furnish a list of
passengers, &c., and which .was sustained as a police regulation, +lhe .court O'waived the examination of the question

SU.REI E' COURT.
Sinnot et al. v. Davenporte a.

whether the power to regulate commerce be or be not exclusive of the States."
In commenting on this case, Justice WAYNE says that the
power to be exercised under State authority was after the passengers had landed. That on the question as to the exclusiveness of the power the ju dges were divided, four being in favor
of the exclusiveness, and three opposed, and to this state of
opinion was owing the waiver above quoted.
7 Howard, 481.
In the passenger cases (7 Howard) Justice McLEAN said:
"The power to regulate commerce, foreign and between the
States, was vested exclusively in Congress." (P. 400.)
Justice WAYNE: This power "includes navigation upon the
high seas, and in the bays, harbors, lakes, and navigable
waters .within the United States, and any law by a State in
any way affecting the right of navigation, or subjecting the
exercise of the right to a condition, is contrary to the grant."
(P. 414.)
Justices CATRMoN and GRIER: "That Congress has regulated
commerce and intercourse with foreign nations and between
the several States, by willing that it shall be free, and it is
therefore not left to the direction of each State in the Union
either to refuse a right of passage to persons or property
through her territory, or to exact a duty for permission to
exercise it." (P. 464.)
In Cooley v. Portwardens of Philadelphia, the court say:
"Although Congress has legislated on the subject of pilotage,
its legislation manifests an intention, with a single exception,
not to regulate this subject, but to leave its regulation to the
several States. To these precise questions, which are all we
are called on to decide, this opinion must be understood to
be confined. It does not extend to the question, what other
subjectp under the commercial power are within the exclusive
control of Congress, or may be regulated by the States in the
absence of all Congressional legislation," &c.
12 Howard, 320.
But whether this power is exclusive or not, when Congress,
in pursuance of thetower, proceeds to regulate the subject

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

281

Sinnot d aL v. Davenportel al.

matter, it necessarily excludes State interference with the same
subject matter.
In Houston v. Moore, (5 Wheat.,) the court say:."'We are
altogether incapable of comprehending how two distinct wills
can at the same time be exercised in relation to the same subject, to be effectual, and at the same time compatible with one
another."
In Prigg v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, (16 Pet., 617,)
the language of the court is: "If dongress have a constitutional power to regulate a particular subject, and they do regulate it in a particular manner, and in a certain form, it annot be that the State Legislatures have a right to interfere,
and, as it were, by way of complement to the legislation of
Congress, to prescribe additional regulations, and- what they
may deem auxiliary provisions for the same purpose. In such
a case, the legislation of Congress, in what it does prescribe,
manifestly indicates that it does not intend that there shall be
any further legislation to act upon the subject matter. Its
silence as to what it does not do is as expressive of what its
intention is, as the direct provisions made by it."
The license granted to the steamer to carry on the coasting
trade is a grant of authority to do whatever it purports to
authorize. The States cannot add to the regulations made
by the paramount authority, nor subtract anything from
them.
Gibbons v. Ogden, p. 579.
The Piople v. Brooks, 4 Denio, 479.
The act of the State is in directi conflict with these principles, for, in effect, it declares that vessels engaged in foreign
commerce, or the coasting trade, shall not navigate. its waters,
without complying with a condition not prescribed by the acts
.ofCongress. If the State has the power to inflict a penalty
for the violation of the condition, it is equally authorized to
use force to prevent the violation.
It is not pretended that the act is based on the police power
of the State; neither the preservation of the health, morals,
nor the peace of the community, is affected by it. In the language of the Supreme Court of the State, its object is merely

SUPREME COURT.
&nnot et al. v. Davenport el al.

to "advance the remedies for torts or contracts done or made
by the agents of steamboats," &c.
While the power of the State over its legal remedies is ad.
mitted, this, like the taxing power of the State, cannot be exercised so as to interfere with the power delegated to Congress
to regulate commerce.
Brown v. State of Maryland, 12 Wheat., 419.
Hays v. Steamship Company, 17 How., 599.
Towboat Company v. Steamboat Company, Law Regis
ter, March, 1857, p. 284.
The act of Congress of 29th July, 1850, provides the mode
by which sales and transfers shall be made, and what shall be
the evidence of ownership, while the act of the State disregards the mode thus provided, and declares a different rule
shall prevail in its courts.
The case of the owners of the Swan against same defendant
differs only in this-that the boat in question was engaged in
the business of a lighter and tow between the wharves of the
city and the vessels, and the vessels anchored in the lower
part of the bay.
(See the succeeding case of Foster et al. v. Davenport et al.)

Mr. CZay's argument (adoptirg a brief filed by Mr. T T.
Taylor) was as follows:
There are three cases on appeal from the Supreme Court of
Alabama, against this defendant, now pending. It is supposed
they will all be submitted together, as the same question arises
alike in all.
See the cases reported in 28 Alabama, 185.
The only question to be determined by this court is, whether
the act of the Legislature of the State of Alabama is in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
The object sought, and the evil intended to be cured by the
act, is clearly indicated on its face. The narrow and shallow
channels in the bay and interior rivers of Alabama required
the aid"of legislative protection. lavigation would be impeded by the sinking of wrecks, dis6harging ballast, &c., by
,!arelesa, negligent, and irresponsible seamen. On the narrow

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Sinnot ci al. v. Daot

233

A

rivers particularly, competition, strife, explosions, and collisions, were of frequent occurrence, against all which, the Legislature found it necessary to provide for the safety of navigation, and the protection of the life, property, and rights, of all
persons trading or navigating the waters. But the whole of
these police regulations were rendered inefficient, and irresponsible employ6s rendered more reckless, from the fict
that responsibility could not be fixed on the owner and real
wrong-doer. Even with the home vessels, in case of explosion,
collision, or the boat becoming involved in debt, no responsible owner could be found; and if any name at all appeared, it
was generally an irresponsible clerk or bar-keeper, or a man of
straw. And as to those running from other States, the difficulty
was greater; and where the vessel itself was lost, or exhausted
by claims, no redress was or could be obtained for their injuries, depredations, and violation of law. To remedy this, the
act referred to was passed, requiring, simply the captain ormanaging officer of all steamboats running the waters to give
the names of their owners, under such restriction's as would
make the record available,in case of wrong, injury, or violation
of law. It will be seen that the act does not in any way prohibit, obstruct, or interfere with free and uncontrdlled navigation; and. a compliance with it could not injure, but would
encourage, both domestic and foreign trade and commerc.
Neither is the law partial; it acts alike on all, and is for: the
benefit and protection of all.
The act, therefore, being for the purpose of carrying out
and rendering effectual the. undisputed police. reif" 1ions of
the State, is itself of the same Po/ce character, admitted, by
undisputed authority, to be within- the power of the
States.
The coasting license authorizes the navigation of-the waters,
and the carrying on of trade and commerce within the States.
but it does not pretend to authorize a disregard of the police
laws passed by the States for the observance of its own citizens. And all laws for the protection of life, health, and
property, ingpection laws, and laws to prevent strife and confusion iu bays, harbors, and rivers, and to secure the rights of

SUPREME COURlT.
Sinnot e al.v. Darepor e al

vessels navigating the waters, are of this ind.
authorities sustain these propositions.
18 Alabama, 185.
11 Peters, 102.
4 Sandford, 492.
12 Howard, 299.
7 Iredel, 821.
16 B. Monroe, 699.
i Parker 0. R., 659, 588.
18 Mississippi, 283.
4 Rich., 286.

The following

14 Texas, 153.

5 Texas, 426.
31 Maine, 360.
18 Connecticut, 500.
32 Maine, 383.
4 Georgia, 26.
'12 Connecticut, 7.
7 Shep., 853.
2 Spears, 769.
2 Peters, 251..
14 Howard, 574.
The Legislature of lNew York passed " an act requiring the
master of every vessel arriving at New York from a foreign
port, or any port of any other of the States, under certain penalties, to make a report in writing, containing the names, &c.,
of all passengers." The ship ip question landed passengers,
and failed and refused to file a report, as required. A suit
was brought for the penalty. The defence was, that the law
was unconstitutional; but it was held good by the Supreme
Court of the United-States, as apolice law. The case at bar.
and that above cited, differ in this only- one requires the
names of passengersto be recorded, and the other requires the
owners' names to be recorded. The law of New York was for
the protection of her citizens only. The act of Alabama was
Cor the mutual benefit of all persons and vessels.
2 Peters, 102.
2 Paine C. C., 429.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

285

Siniwt el al. v. Danpt et aL

The State of Pennsylvania passed an act requiring all
vessels to take a pilot, and on refusal shall pay to the master
warden of the pilots, for the use of the society, &c., one-half
the regular amount of pilotage. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania and the Supreme Court of the United States held
that this law was not void or inconsistent with the Constitution or any of the acts of Congress.
See 12 Howard, 299.
In this case, Justice DANIEL, in deli'ering the opinion, said:
"The power delegated to Congress by the Constitution relates
properly to the terms on which commercial engagemeiits may
be prosecuted, the character of tfe articles they may embraice,
the permission and terms according to which they may be
introduced, and do not necessarily, or even materially, extend
to the means of precaution and safety adopted within the
waters or limits of the States, by the authority of the latter,
for the preservation of vessels and cargoes, and the lives of
navigators or passengers; these last subjects are essentially
local. In the case of Vezie v. Moore, 14 Howard, 574, this
court says: "The design and bbject of the clause of the Constitution under consideration was to establish a perfect equality
between the States, and to prevent unjust discriminations,"
&c.; and in accordance therewith have been the expositions
of this court in the decisions quoted by counsel, &c.
And in nearly all the cases above referred to, it is held that
a State has the right to make improvements in its navigable
waters, in order to make the common right more beneficial
to all, and to pass laws for mutual protection.
In Connecticut, it is held that an act of the State Legislature, imposing reasonable tolls as a conipensation for improving the navigation,'is constitutional and valid; that commerce is not crippled- by such tolls, but the act of the Legislature comes in aid of the power of Congress.
18 Conn., 500.
In South Carolina, a -law appointing a person to assign to
vessels their proper places, and requiring a fee to be paid and
a penalty for non-observance, &c., was held good by.the Su.
preme Court of Sbuth Carolina.

SUPREME COURT.
Sinnot dt al. v. Da=n.7r ed aL~

4 Rich., 286.
It is also held by the Supreme Court of Texas, that an acnt
of the Legislature, imposing wharfage dues on all vessels
landing at Buffalou Bayou was constitutional, as these dues
were limited to the improvement of the navigation of the
bayou.
14 Texas, 157.
A case was lately decided in Kew York, where most of the
authorities on this subject are collected. The case was this.
The Legislature passed an act as follows:
"Whenever any steamboat shall be navigating in the night
time, the master of such boat shall cause her to carry and
show two good and sufficient lights-one to be exposed near
her bow, and the other near her stern, and the last shall be
at least twenty feet above her deck."
The defence was, that the steamer in that case was not
bound to carry more than one light, because she was a vessel
owned in another State, navigating a river subject to the
jurisdiction of Congress, under a national enrolment and
license. In this case, too, Congress had acted on this same
subject matter. The act of Congress of 1838 made it the duty
of masters and owners of every steamboat, running between
sunset and sunrise, to carry one or more signal lights, under
a penalty, &c., and it was further contended that the license
prohibited a further requirement to be added by the State;
but the court, after a full argument, held the State law good,
and that the defendants were liable for all the penalties imposed for disregarding it. See the case ani the numerous
authorities there cited.
4 Sandford, 462.
I[. If it should be considered that the act of Alabama is not
a police regulation, still, as it is necessary for the protecton
and the security of the rights of all persons trading and navigating the rivers, and is not in direct conflict with any act of
Congress, it will be held good. It was never intended by
Congress, in passing general laws for all the waters of the
Union; to prohibit the States from passin'g such other regulations, not in .conflict, that might*be found necessary for safe

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Sinnot et at. v. Daveilport e az.
and, peaceful navigation, on particular streams or localities.

In 14 Howard, United States, 296, it is said that "the
grant of commercial power to Congress does n~t forbid the
States from passing laws, not in conflicj with the acts of Congress. The power to regulate commerce includes various
subjects, upon some of which there should be uniform rule,
and upon others differefit rules in different localities."
In the case 4 Sandford, the court, after commenting on
the authorities of the Supreme Court of the United States,
says: "If any principle may be deduced from the decisions
and opinions of the judges of that high tribunal, it is this:
that each State may pass such laws affecting commerce, to
operate within its own limits, not in conilict with the provision of the Constitution of the United States, or acts of
Congress, as are necessary for thepreservation of the life, the
health, the personal rights, and property of its citizens, and
of those enjoying its protection." A great majority of the
cases already cited hold the same. The object of the act of
Alabama was to afford all passengers and persons trading, or
navigating the waters, some certain evidence by which to
sustain their rights or redress their wrongs, and a means of
getting at the secret wrong-doers; to give fair play and ready.
redress to all. Upon examining this act with the acts of Con.
gress, it will be seen that it does not conflict with the acts of
Congress; it is rather in addition, or in aid of the objects of
those laws.
MI. There are three classes of these cases appealed from
the Supreme Court of Alabama, one of which was engaged in
running from Mobile to Montgomery, one in towing vessels
in and about the port of Mobile, and one between New Orleans and Montgomery. As to the two first boats mentioned,
they are domestic vessels entirely, running on our own waters
within our limits, and so regularly occupied and engaged, and
not between the *ports of different States. The mere -fact,
therefore, that they happened to have a coasting license on
board, can't help them. The Supreme Court of the United
States, in 14 Howard, 573, says: "These categories are, 1st,
commerce with foreign nations; 2d, commerce a-nong the

SUPREME COURT.
Sinawt et at. v. Davepor e at.

several States; 3d, commerce with the Indian tribes. Taking
the term commerce in its broadest acceptation, supposing it
to embrace not merely traffic, but the means and vehicles by
which it is prosecuted, can it properly be made to include
objects and purposes such as those contemplated by the law
under review? Commerce with foreign nations must signify
commerce, which in some sense is necessarily connected with
thoae nations, transactions which, either immediately or at
some stage of their progress, must be extra territorial. It can
never be applied to transactions wholly internal," &c.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Alabama;
The suit was brought by the plaintiffs below, commissioners
t f pilotage of the harbor of Mobile, against fhe steamboat
Bagaby, of which Sinnot, the defendant, was master, to recover certain penalties for a violation of the law of the State
of Alabama, passed February 15, 1854, entitled "An act to
provide for" the registration of the names of steamboat
owners."
The 1st section of the act provides that it shall be the duty
of the owne es of steamboats navigating the.waters of the State,
before such boat shall leave the port of Mobile, to file in the
office of the probate judge a statement in writing, setting forth
the name 6"'the steamboat and of the owner or owners, his or
their plac,' or places of residence, and their interest therein,
which statement shall be signed and sworn to by the owners,
or their agent or attorney, and which statement shall be recorded by the said judge of probate; and, also, in case of a
sale of said boat, it is made the duty of the vendee to file a
statement of the change of ownership, his place of residence,
:and the interest transferred, which statement shall be signed
by the vendor and vendee, his or their agent or attorney, and
recorded in the office of the aforesaid judge.
The 2d section provides, that if any person or persons, being
owner or owners of any steamboat, shall run, or permit the
same to be run or navigated, on any of the waters of th-e State,

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

2.39

Sinnot et al. v. Davenqor et al.

without having first filed the statement as provided by the act,
he or they shall forfeit'the sum of $500, to be recovered ir&the
name of the commissioners of pilotage of the .bay-of Mobile,
either by a suit against the owners or by attachment against
the boat, the one half to the use of the commissioners, and the
other half to the person or persons who shall first inform said
commissioners.
The steamboat Bagaby in question was seized
and detained
under this act until discharged, on a bond being given to pay
and satisfy any judgment that might be rendered in the suit. A
judgment was subsequently rendered against the vessel in the
city court of Mobile, for the penalty of $500, with costs, which,
on an appeal to the Supreme Court was affirmed.
The material facts in the case are, that the steamboat was
engaged in navigation and commerce between the city of New
Orleans, in the State of Louisiana, 'and the cities of Montgomery and Wetumpka, in the State of Alabama, and that'she
touched at the city of Mobile only in the course of her navigation and trade'between the ports and places above mentioned; that she was an Americdn vessel, built at Pittsburgh, in
the State of Pennsylvania, and was duly enrolled and licensed
in pursuance of the laws of th'e United States, and had been.
regularly cleared at the port of New Orleans for the poits of
Montgomery and Wetumpka, whither she was destined at tle
time of the seizure and detention under the act in question.
The plaintiffs in *error,the master, and stipulators in the
court below, insist, that the judgment rendered against them
is erroneous, upon the ground that the statute of the Legislature of the State of Alabama is unconstitutional and void, it
being in conflict with that clause in the Constitution which
confers upon Congress the power." to regulate commerce with
foreign nations and among the several States," and the acts of
Congress passed in pursuance thereof. The act of Congress
relied on is that of the 17th February, 1793, providing for the
enrolment and.license of vessels engaged in the coasting trade.
The force and effect of this act was examined in the case of
Gibbons v.- Ogden, (9 Wh., pp. 210, 214,) and it was there held
that vessels enrolled and licensed in pursuance of it had.con-

SUPREME COURT.
Sinotd alv. umrt efaL

ferred upon them as full and complete authority to cary on
this trade as was in the power of Congress to confer.
The Chief Justice says,'(speaking of the lst section:) "This
sectiou seems to the court to contain a positive enactment that
the vessels it describes shall be entitled to the privileges of
ships or vessels employed in the coasting trade. These privi.
leges cannot be separated from the trade, and cannot be enjoyed
unless the trade may be prosecuted." Again, the court say', to
construe these words orherwise than as entitling the ships or
vessels described to carry on the coasting trade 'would be, we
think, to disregard the apparent intent of the.act. And again,
speAking of the license provided for in the 4th section, the
word "license" means permission or authority; and a license
to do any-particular thing is a permission or authority to do
that thing, and, if granted by a person haing power to grant
it, transfers to the grantep the right to do whatever it purport;s
to authorize. It certainly transfers to him all the right which
the grantor can transfer, to do what is within the terms of the
license.
The licenso is. general in its terms, according to the form
given in the a'ct of'Congress: "License is hereby granted for
the said steamboat (naming her) to be employed in carrying
on the coasting trade for one year from the date hereof, and
no longer."
; In the case already referred to, it was denied in the argumnent that these words authorized a voyage from New Jersey
to New York. The court observed, in answer to this objec.
tion: It istrue that no ports are specified; but it is eilually
true that the words used are perfectly intelligible, and do confer such authority as unquestionably as if the portz had been
mentioned. The coasting trade is a term well understood.
The law has defined it, and all know its meaning perfectly.
The act describes with great minuteness the various operatious of vessels engaged -in it; and it cannot, we think, be
doubted that a voyage from New Jeey to New York is ono
of those operations.
On lobking into the act of Congress regulating the coasting
trade, it will be found that many conditions are to be complied

DECEMBER TERMF, 1859
Sirnwt et at. v. Damporf d ay

with by the owners of vessels, before the granting of the enrol
ment or license. 1. The vessel must possess the same qualifications, and the same requisites must be complied with, as are
made necessary to the registering of ships or vessels engaged in
the foreign trade by the act of December 81, 1792. These con
ditions are many and important, as will be seen by a referenct
to the act. .2. A bond must be given by the husband, o'
managing owner, and the master, with sureties to the satisfaction of the collector, conditioned that such vessel shall not
be employed in any trade by which the United States sfall be
defrauded of its revenues; and also the master must make oath
that he is a citizen of the United States; that the license shall
not be used for any other vessel or any other employment
than that for which it is granted, or in any trade or business
in fraud of the public revenues, as a condition to the granting
of the license. -These are the guards and restraints, and the
only guards and restraints, which Congress has seen fit to annex to the privileges of ships and vessels engaged in the coasting trade, and upon a compliance with which, as we have seen,
as full and complete authority is conferred by the license to
carry on the trade as Congress is capable of conferring.
Now, the act of the Legislature of the State of Alabama im-.
poses another and an additional condition to the privilege of
carrying on this trade within her waters, namely: the filing
of a statement in writing, in the office of the probate judge of
Mobile county, setting forth: 1. The name of the vessel; 2.
The name of the owner or owners; 3.His or their place or
places of residence; and 4. The interest each has in the vessel.
Which statement must be sworn to by the party, or his agent
or attorney. And the like statement, mutatis mutandis, is required to be made each. time a change of owners of the vessel.
takes place. Unless this condition of navigation and trade
within the waters of Alabama is complied with, the vessel is
forbidden to leave the port of Mobile, under the penalty of
$500 for each offence.
If the interpretation of the court, as to the force and effect
of the privileges afforded to the vessel by the enrolment and
-license in the case of Gibbons v. Ogden, are to be maintained,
VOL. XXII.

16

SUPREME COURT.
Sinnot et al v. Davenpt e a?.
it can require no argument to show a direct conflict between
this act of the State and the act of Congress. regulating this
trade. Certainly, if this State law can be upheld, the full enjoyment of the right to carry on the coasting trade, as heretofore adjudged by this court, under the enrolment and license.
is denied to the ve.,sel in question.
If anything further could be necessary, we might refer to the
enrolment piescribed by the act of Congress, by which it is
made the duty of the owner to furnish, under oath, to the collectors; all the information required by this State law, and which
is inScoiporated in the body of the enrolment. Congress, therefore, has legislated on the very subject which the State act has
undertaken to regulate, and has limited its regulation in the
matter to a registry at the home port.
It has been argued, however, that this act of the State is but
the exercise of a police power, which power has hot been surrendered to the *General Government, but reserved to the
States; and hence, even if the law should be found in conflict
with the act of Congress, it must still be regarded as a valid
law, and as excepted out of and from the commercial power.
This position is not a new one; it has often been presented
to this court, and in every instance the same answer given to
it. It was strongly pressed in the New York case of Gibbons
v. Ogden. The court, in answer to it, observed: "It has been
contended, that if-a law passed by a State, in the exercise of
its acknov~ledged sovereignty, comes in conflict with a law
passed by Congress in pursuance of the Constitution, they
affect the subject and each other, like equal opposing forces."
But, the court say, the framers of the Constitution foresaw
this state of things, and provided for it, by declaring the
supremacy not only of itself, but of the laws made in pursuance of it. The nullity of any act inconsistent with the Constitution is produced by the declaration that the Constitution
is the supreme law. The appropriate application of that part
of the clause which confers the same supremacy on laws and
treaties, is to such acts of the State Legislatures as do not
transcend their powers, but, though enacted in the execution
of acknowledged State powers, interfere with or are contrary

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

24"r

Sinnot d AZv. Daveiyorl t aa?

to the laws of Congress, made in pursuance of the Constitution, or some treaty made under the authority of the United
States. In every such case, the act of Congress or treaty is
supreme; and the law of the State, though 3nacted in the
exercise of powers not controverted, must yield to it. The
same doctrine was asserted in the case of Brown v. the State
or Maryland, 12 Wh., pages 448, 449, and in numerous other
cases. (5 How., pages 573, 574, 579, 581; 2 Peters, 251, 252;
4 Wh., pages 405, 406, 486.)
We agree, that in the application of this principle of supremacy of an act of Congress in a case where the State law is but
the exercise of a reserved power,.the repugnance or confliet
should be direct and positive, so that the two acts could not' be
reconciled or consistently stand together; and, also, that the
act of Congress should have been passed in the exercise of a
clear power under the Constitution, such as that in question.
The whole commercial marine of the country is placed by
the Con~titution under the regulation of Congress, and all
laws passed by that body in the regulation of navigation and
trade, whether foreign or coastwise, is therefore but the exercise of an undisputed power. When, therefore, an act of the
Legislature of a State. prescribes a regulation of th6 subject.
repugnant to and inconsistent with the regulation of Congress,
the State law must give way; and this, without regard to the
source of power whence the State Legislature derived its. enactment.
This paramount authority of the act of Congress is not -only
-onferred- by the Constitution itself, but is the logical result
of the power over the subject conferred upon that body by the
States. They surrendered this power to the General Government; and to the extent of the fair exercise of it by Congress,
the act must be supreme.
The power of Uongress, however, over the subject does not
extend further than the. regulation of commerce with foreign
nations and among the several States. Beyond these limits
the States have not surrendered their power over the subject,
and may exercise it independently of any control or interfeC
ence of the Generld Government; andthere has been much

SUPREME COURT.
Foster et al. v. Davenport et al.

controversy, and probably will continue to be, both by the
bench and the bar, in fixing the true boundary line between
the power of Congress under the commercial grant and the
power reserved to the States. But in all these discussions, or
nearly all of them, it has been admitted, that if the act of
Congress fell clearly within the power conferred upon that
body by the Constitution, there was an end of the controversy.
The law of Congress was supreme.
These questions.have arisen under the quarantine and health
laws of the States--laws imposing a tax upon imports and
passengers, admitted to have been passed underothe police
power of the States, and which had not been surrendered to
the General Government. The law3 of the States have been
upheld by the court, except in cases where they were in conflict, or were adjudged by the court to be in conflict, with the
act of Congress.
Upon the whole, after the maturest consideration the court
have been able to give to the case, we are constrained to hold,
that the act of the Legislature of the State is in conflict with
the Constitution and law of the United States, and therefore
void.
The judgment of the court below is reversed.

PHINEAS 0: FOSTER, ROGER A. HEIRNE, AND GEORG. J. BLAKESLEE, OWNERS OF THE STEAMBOAT SWAN, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,
V. GORHAM DAVENPORT AND OTHERS, CoMmIssIoNERs or PILOTAGE OF THE BAY AND HARBOR OF MOBILE.
The principle established in the preceding case extends also to a steamboat
employed as a lighter and towboat, sometimes towing vessels beyond the
outer bar of the bay, and into the gulf to the distance of several miles,
The character of the navigation and business in wbich this boat was employed
cannot be distinguished from that in which the vessels it towed or unloaded
were engaged. The lightering or towing was but the prolongation of the voy
age of the vessels assisted to their port of destination.

THIS was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Alabama.
The case was similar to the preceding one of Sinnot and others

