sullEME COURT.
Thornpson et al. v. Lewsee of Carrollel al.

at the city of Los Angeles, 18th February, 1845, signed by
Pio Pico, Governor, and Jose Ml. Corvarubias, secretary.
Neither the grant nor the certificate of approval has been
found among the Mexican archives, nor the record of them
upon any book of records. Both papers came from the hands
of the claimant. The genuineness or the title depend; upon
proof of the official signatures, and some evidence of possesSion.
The board rejected the claim; but on appeal to the District

Court, and the production of further proof of possession, that
court affirmed it.
The case fhlls within the views of the court in the United
States v.* Tesebmaker and others, decided this term.
Decree reversed, and the case remanded for further evidence.

EMIA

B. C. THOMPSON AND IILLIAM G. W. WHITE, PLAINERRoR, V. RICHARD ROE, EX DEM JANB CARROLL, MA-

TIFFS IN

RIA C. FITZHUGH, ANNE C. CARROLL, SARAH NICHOLSON, REBECCA CARROLL, HENRY MAY BRENT, DANIEL I
AND CATHARINE D.

FITZHUGH

Ins WIFE., DEVISEES OF DANXEL CARROLL

OF DUDDIkGTON, DECEASED.
Under the act to incorporate the city of Washington, passed on the 15th of May,
1820, amended by the act of 1824, it is not a condition to the validity of the
sale of unimproved lands for taxes, that the personal estate of the owner should
have been exhausted by distress.
The ordinances of the corporation cannot increase or vary the power given by
the acts of Congress, nor impose any terms or conditions which can affect the
validity of a sale made within the authority conferred by the statute.

Tris case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia.
The facts of the case and instruction given by the Circuit
Court are stteod in the opinion of the court.
itwas argued by Mr. Carlisle, upon a brief filed by himself
and Mr. Badger, for the plaintiffi in error, who claimed under

DECEM-iER TER-,

1859.

Thompson el al. v. Lessee of Carrollet al.

the tax title, and Mr. Brent and Mr. ylter for the defendants,
upon which side there was also a brief by Mr. Marbury and
Mr. 1?edin.
Those parts of the arguments upon both sides which relate
to the construction of the charter of 1820, and the subsequent
act of 1824, will be noticed, omitting all those which referred
to the ordinances of the corporation. It was agreed that the
last charter of the city in 1848 had .nothing to do with this
case, the sale having been made in 1835.
Mr. Carlisle gave the following construction to the charter
of 1820 and act of 1824:
1. By the 10th section of the charter of 1820, (3 Stat., 589,)
"real property, whether improved or unimproved," might be
sold for taxes. The only restriction was in the proviso (p.
590) "that no sale shall be made, in pursuance of this section,
of any improved property whereon there is personal property
of sufficient value to pay the said taxes."
By the 12th section, (p. 590,) power is given to collect taxes
by "distress and sale of the goods and chattels of the person
chargeable therewith."
Both these sections contemplated that the property should
be assessed to the true owner. The 10th section distinguished,
in the term of notice required, between resident and non-resident owners. The 12th section subjected to the payment of
taxes the "goods and chattels of the person chargeable therewith."
lo person could be "chargeable" with the taxes, except by
their being assessed to him. The corporation charged by as.
sessment.
These provisions were found to be practically inefficient for
the collection of taxes. It was absolutely necessary that the
corporation should be relieved from the duty of ascertaining
the true owner, and assessing the land to him. Accordingly,
the act of Congress of 1824, (4 Stat., 76,) supplementary and
amendatory to the act of 1820, was passed.
By its 1st section, the provisions of the act of 1820, so fai
as "inconsistent with the provisions of this act," are repealed.

ISUPREM-E COUlRT.
Thompson el al. v. Lfwsee of Carroll d l.

By its 2d section, it. is provided that "no sale of real property for taxes, hereafter made, shall be impaired or made void
by reason of such property not being assessed or advertisedin the name or names of the lawful owner or owners there
of."

The same section abolished the distinction between residents
and non-residents, in respect to the advertisement, and prescribed a uniform term in all cases, irrespective of bwnership.
The provisions of the act of 1820, requiring the corporation
to ascertain the person chargeable with the taxes, was incon-.'
sistent with the provision of the act of 1824, which made it
unnecesdary to assess the property to the "lawful owner or
owners thereof,"' and therefore the former were repealed.
For it cannot be maintained that a mere stranger, having
no interest in the land, could be chargeable personally with
the taxes, so as to subject his goods and chattels to distress.
And yet the land might be assessed to such person, (e. y., a
former owner,) and advertised in his name; and the real owner
might be wholly unknown, and the sale of the land Would not
"be impaired or made void thereby."
The effect of the act of 1824 was to authorize the corporation to proceed in reni, the tax being assessable 'directly and
exclusively upon the lands, and not to any person.
This is understood to be the construction upon which this
court proceeded in ilolroyd v. Pumphrey, (18 Howard, 69.)
There the Circuit Court of this District had holden the tax
sale void, because the property was assessed to a dead man, it
having been, for previous years, assessed upon the books of
tbe corporation to his heirs. This court reversed the judgment, declaring, in effect, that under the charter of 1824 it
was immaterial to what person, or whether to any existing
person, the land was assessed.
It would seem to be hardly defensible to assert, that there
being but one assessment-and that being sufficient to pass
the.land, irrespective of the true ownership-there is,nevertheless, to be imputed to the corporation another assessment,
qscertaining "the person chargeable" with the taxes, so as to

I)E''MIATElMl,

1859.

425

Thompso. cl al. v. Lessee of CarroUd al.

compel a resort to the personalty, or otherwise to avoid the
sale.
This view may be further illustrated by the case of Mason
v. Fearson, referred to in the opposite brief. There it was
held, in effect, that if A, owning fifty lots, and having them
all assessed to him, sell and convey forty-nine of them, but
the whole fifty remain assessed to him, one lot (and it may be
the only one belonging to him) must be sold for the taxes on
the whole. But if the doctrine of tlfe court below be right, it
would seem to follow, that in order to make the sale of such a
lot valid, the personal property of the owner must first be exhausted by distress, thus making him personally chargeabld
with the taxes on all the lots assessed to him.
2. This- view of the question, founded mainly upon the
amended charter of 1824, is wholly disregarded by the brief
on the other side, which merely remarks that the act of 1824
"makes some changes in the charter of 1820, but not necessary to.be noticed." In our apprehension, these changes are
conclusive of the matter, even if, by the true construction of
the charter of 1820, it was imperative that recourse should be
first had to the goods and chattels of the owner.
But was such primary recourse required by the act of 1820
itself?
It is submitted that it was not. Nor, in the multitude of
tax titles which have been tried in the court below, was the
point ever suggested until the present case in 1857.
The wh6le argument in its support depends upon the assumption that the language of the 12th section, declaring that
"the person or persons appointed to collect," &c., "shall have
authority to collect the same by distress and sale of the goods
and chattels of the person chargeable therewith," is mandatory
upon the corporation, requiring a distress in all instances.
This is assumed because of the well-settled law, that, in certain cases, the word "may," and other equivalent expressions,
will be construed "must," in order to give effect to the intention of the Legislature, as in Mason r. Fearson.
But is this such a case?
In Mason v. Fearson, the charter had provided for the sale

Sb PREME

YCOURT.

Twmipson e al. v. Lessee of Carrollet aL

of one lot to pay the taxes on all; and this court held that the
corporation was bound to exercise the power so conferred, and
that, the first two lots having produced more than enough to
pay the taxes on the whole, the subsequent sales were void.
This is not at all analogous to the present case, which is that of
the express grant of co-ordinate remedies, to be exercised
optionally. The sale of one lot for the taxes due on all those
owned by the same person, instead of unnecessarily selling
them all, each for its own taxes, is manifestly for the benefit
of the owner. But is it manifestly for his benefit that the
summary remedy of a distress warrant shall be applied to his
household furniture, rather than that a vacant lot lying in
commons shall be sold?
The exemption clause in the bankrupt act of 1841, and the
homestead and exemption acts in the States, indicate a pre
vailing idea to the contrary; and no stronger individual case
can be put for illustration than that of the venerable gentleman who owned this property in 1835.
This precise matter has been adjudicated by the Supreme
Oouft of New Jersey, in the case of Martin v. Carron, 2
Dutcher, 230. There the clauses in the charter of Newark
were identical with those in this charter of 1820. This same
objection was taken. But the court held that "the remedies
are co-ordinate. It is not necessary that the goods and chattels of the owner or occupant of the lot be exhausted before
proceeding against the land."
Martin v. Carron, 2 Dutch., 230.
Mr.M arburyand Mr. Redin, for the defendants in error, contended that, under the tenth and twelfth sections of the charter
of 1820, there is no discretion in the corporation or collector;
but that it is mandatory upon them, under the provisions of
that act, first to take the personal property of the owner,
possessed by him within the corporation, for taxes claimed,
before resorting to his real estate.
The tenth and twelfth sections of the charter of 1820 relate
to the same subject, and must be taken together. The tenth
sectien (which authorizes the sale of real property) is not in.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

427

Thomyson et al. v. Lessee of CarroUd aL.

dependent, but must be construed in connection with the
twelfth section (which provides for the seizure and sale of the
goods of the owner;) and thus taken and construed, the two
sections mean, that if the owner of the real property has
personal property upon the promises, or anywhere else in his
possession within the corporate limits, sufficient to pay the
taxes claimed, it shall. be taken for them, and the real property, whether improved or unimproved, saved from sale therefor. The taxes to be collected were those which should
be "imposed by virtue of the powers granted by the act."
The taxes which the act authorized to be imposed were taxes
on unimproved as well as improved lots. And all the taxes
so imposed, on all descriptions of property, were, by the terms
of the act, to be collected out of the goods of the persons
chargeable with the tax; "the person appointed to collect any
tax imposed by virtue of the powers granted by this act shall
have authority to collect the same by distress and sale of the
goods and chattels of the person chargeable therewith." If
he had goods upon the property on which the tax was imposed,
they were to be taken there. If he had no goods thereon, but
possessed them elsewhere within the corporate limits, it was
not meant that the real property upon which the tax was im.
posed should be sold, but that such goods should be taken
wherever they were found in his possession within the jurisdiction of the corporation. It is the same as to both descriptions of property, improved and unimproved: taxes ae imposed equally upon both, "by virtue of the same act;" and
are, as to both, to be alike collected in the same way, out of
the goods of the person chargeable with the tax. The teal
property might be resorted to in the contingency of there
being no personal property; but not "until'all the other
means of collection, prescribed in the act, had been tried, and
failed." The twelfth section may be read as a further proviso
to the previous tenth section; and the third proviso of the
tenth section, as to improved property, may be considered to
have been inserted merely from abundance of caution as to tfiat
particular description of property, and not as any restriction
upon the duty required by the twelfth section, viz: to take

428

SUPREME coURT.
Thompson et al. v. Lessee of CarrolZ d d.

goods for all taxes imposed by virtue of the act, wherever the
party possessed them within the corporate limits. The-twelfih
section of itself was sufficient to protect both descriptions of
property, improved as well as unimproved. This contruction
-produces harmony, and protects all the real property from
sale, where the owner possessed personal property sufficient
for the taxes claimed within the corporation, which the collector could find, and which, when taken, would be protected
from .replevin by the last clause of the twelfth section. It
effects, it is submitted, the intent, and secures the rights of
all parties, the corporation as well as the citizen; whereas a
contrary construction, limiting the protection from sale to the
improved property only, would leave the unimproved exposed,
although the owner might have abundant personal property
for all the taxes ciaimed, and would violate the intent.
Similar sections of the act of Congress of the 14th of July,
1798, to lay and collect a direct tax, were thus placed together
and construed by this court, in the case of Parker v. Rule's
Lessee, 9 Cra., 67. The thirteenth section of that act, whiclf
authorized the sale of lands, was held not to be independent
of the ninth and eleventh sections of the same act, which provided for the publication of certain notices previous to the
distress' and sale of goods; but that, "taking the whole statute
together, and looking to the policy required," and the obvious
"solicitude to collect the tax by distress and sale of personal
property, rather than by a sale of the land itself," the thirteenth section was construed in subordination to the direction
to distrain and sell personal property contained in the ninth
and eleventh sections, and the notices required by those sections, before such distress could be made, not having been
given, the sale made of the laud, under the thirteenth section,
was declared void; the Chief Justice holding the language
above quoted, that "all the means of collection prescribed by
the act- must have -been tried, and must have failed, before a
sale of the land can be made."
The solicitude expressed by the court runs through all our
decisions and legislation; not-.nly is it manifested in the act
of Congress of 1798, but also in the legislation of Mars land

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

429

Thompsm et aL v. Lesee of Oarrol et aL.

existing at the time this District was laid out, whose tax acts
contained a similar section to the twelfth section of the charter
of 1820. So did the frst charter in 1802, and, from abundance of caution, a prohibition against the sale of unimproved
lots for taxes. The policy of the law has ever been to make
the personal estate the primary fund for the payment of debt.,
and especially of encumbrances and charges for taxes. The
authorities are numerous; but in addition to Parker and Rule's
Lessee, and the act of Congress of 1798, reference is merely
made to Blackwell on Tax Titles, pages 205, 209, 213; 12
Ala. Rep., 617; Scales v. Avis, the Tax Acts 'of Maryland,
1785, chap. 83, sec. 8; 1797, chap. 90, sec. 1; and 2 Gill and
John., 376, Mayor of Baltimore v. Chase-all going to establish that personal property must be resorted to-before the real
estate.
In the case at bar, the lot was unimproved, and the owner
at the time of the sale, and at all times, possessed abundant
personal property. The fact that lie had such was known to
the corporation and its officers; the quantity, value, and description, and the particular locality where to be found, being
all entered upon their own books. The fact that he possessed
such, and that the collector could hav6 taken it, is found by,
the jury.
"Taking the whole statute together," therefore, and "looking to the policy required," the duty to take such personal
property, and abstain from the sale of the unimproved real
property, was imperative and mandatory upon the corporation
and collector, under the provisions of this charter of 1820.
Mason v. Fearson, 9 Howard, is a direct authority in support of the view that it was mandatory. The duty, if not precisely the same, was of the same character in both cases, and
the words are equivalent. In the act of 1824, they are, (sec: 4,)
"it shall be lawful for the corporation, where several lots are
assessed to the same person, to sell one or more for the taxes
and expenses due on'the whole." In the charter of 1820,
(sec. 12,) the person appointed to collec(t any tax I! shall have
authority to collect the same by distress and sale cf the goods
and chattels of the person chargeable therewith."

SUPREME COURT.
Tkompsoa et al. -. Lpvec of Carrol d al.

Upon these sections ten and twelve, then, of the charter of
1820 alone, and independent of the corporation ordinance of
July, 1824, we submit that it was imperative first to take the
personal property possessed by Mr. Carroll at the time of the
sale; and that there was no discretion, in corporation or collector, first to resort to the unimproved real estate.
Mr. Brent, upon the same side made, the following point
upon this branch of the case:
First Point. The act of 1820, oh., 104, sec. 10, (3 Stat. at
Large, p. 589,) gives the corporation of Washington no power
to sell real estate until after two years' taxes are due and in
arrear, but no such limitation is found in regard to the liability of personal property for taxes, which may be distrained on
and sold the moment they are assessed, and upon ten days'
notice, according to the 12th section of this act.
The 7th section of the act of 1820 authorizes the corporation
"to lay and collect taxes upon the real and personal property
within the city."
It is therefore clear that Congress looked to the personal
property of the debtor as the primary fund for the immediate
•and available revenues of the city, and to the realty as only
secondarily or ultimately chargeable.
The power to collect taxes by distress on the goods, &e., is
compulsory, and not optional, on the part of the city.
Mason v. Fearson, 9 How., 248.
Parker v. Rule, 9 Cranch, 67.
The only difficulty is occasioned by the third proviso of the
10th .section of the act of 1820, which forbids a sale of improved property, whereon there is personal property sufficient
to pay the taxes.
An argument is based on this proviso, to the effect that
recourse need not be had to personal property, primarily, except where it is found on improved real estate; but we consider this proviso as merely designed to subject primarily all
personal property on the real estate, irrespective of its ownership.
It might happen that the owner of the improved real estate
had no personal effects liable to distress and sale, and hence

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

431

Thompson et al. v. Lossee of Carrol et al.

the legislative purpose to subject personal effects of the tenant
or a stranger found on the improved real estate, primarily, to
the payment of the taxes, and in exoneration of the real
estate.
This proviso, in connection with the 12th section of the
same act, manifestly shows that quoad taxes on real estate, if
improved, the personal, efiects (even of a stranger) found on the
premises were to be considered as the goods, &c., of a "person
chargeable with said taxes."
But if we are wrong in the construction of the act of 1820,
we maintain that the proviso in the 8th section of the act of
1824, chapter 195, (4 Statutes at Large, p. 77,) runs through
all th6 tax sales referred to in the law, because there is no
reason for a distinction in tax sales inL Georgetown, Alexandria, and Washington, and the principle of primary resort tc
personal property of "the owner or tenant" equally applies to
all tax sales in any city. This view is confirmed by the confused and irregular manner in which the sections and clauses
of this act are interwoven, without reference to order or divis.
ion of subject matter.
But, be this as it may, the corporation of Washington had
the right of pursuing, at its election, either the remedy by distress or by sale of unimproved real estate, and this is held on
the authority of the adverse case cited on the other side.
Martin v. Carson, 2 Dutcher Rep.,
228.
The ordinance of 3d July, 1824, (Rothwell'a Laws, p. 169,)
is a conclusive election by the city to require the collector to
exhaust the personal effects of debtors before selling the real.
estate.
This ordinance is conclusive to show a want of authority on
the part of the collector who made the sale.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinioi of the court.
The lessors of the plaintiffs below claim to recover a lot of
ground in the city of Washington, the title to which was admitted to have been in their ancestor in 1835. in that year it
was sold for taxes by the corporate authorities. The plaintiffs
in error claim through inesne conveyances of the tax title.

SUPREME COURT.
Tkonson et al. v. L ssee of Oarro" et al.

The lot in question was assessed as vacant and unimproved;
but the owner, Mr. Carroll, resided in Washington city. He
owned a large number of unimproved lots, the taxes on which
amounted to $5,690. He had personal property in and about
his house, estimated at between five and six thousand dollars.
On the trial, but a single defect was alleged against the tax
title, which raised the question, "Whether, upon the true construction of the charter of 1820, as amended by the act of
1824, it was a condition to the validity of the sale of unimproved lauds for taxes, that the personal estate of the owner
should have been previously exhausted by distress."
The court instructed the jury: "Thnt if Carroll resided
within the limits of the corporation of Washington, and had
it his possession personal prdp'erty sufficient to pay all taxes
due by him, which might have been seized and subjected to
distress and sale, it was the duty of the corporation, through
their collector, to resort first to such personal property; which
not being done, the sale of the lot in question was illegal and
void."
The correctness of this instruction is the only question pre..
sented by the record for our consideration;
The authority granted to the city and the mode of its exercise is to be found in the 10th section of the act "to incorporate the city of Washington," passed on the 15th of May,
1820. It provides "that real property, whether improved or
unimproved, on which two or more years' taxes shall have
remained unpaid, may be sold at public sale, to satisfy the
corporation therefor;" with this- proviso, that no sale "shall
be made in pursuance of this section of any improved property, .whereon tliere is personal property"of sufficient value to
pay the taxes," &c.
It is the obvious intent of this law, that the thing or property
shall be held liable for the tax a~sessed upon it, and that the
tax is a lien in ren, which may be sold to satisfy it. It seems
to assume, also, that the property should beAassessed to. some
person as owner, for it provides for a longer or shorter notice
by advertisement, according to the residence of the owner,
vbctbe" in or out of the District or of the United States. Where

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

483

Tkornpson elal. v. L.see of Carroll d al.

the owner is out of the jurisdiction of the corporation, the*assessment can impose no personal liability on him. But where
he resides in the city, he may be considered as personally liable for the taxes assessed- against his property, and "charged
to him;" and though not liable to an action of debt, the 12th
section of the act provides an additional remedy for the corporation. Besides that of proceeding in rem, under the provisions of the 10th section, it enacts that "the person or persons
appointed to collect any tax imposed by virtue of the powers
granted by this act shall have authority to collect the same by
distress and sale of the goods and chattels of the person chargeable therewith," &c.
The act of May 26th, 1824, which modifies and changes
s6tme of the provisions of this act, provides, among other
things, 1'that no sale for taxes shall be void by reason of such
property not being assessed or advertised in the name of the
lawful owner."
Without inquiring whether this act repeals the 12th section
of the previous act by implikation, it shows plainly that the
property assessed is considered as primarily liable for the. tax,
without regard to ownership. But assuming that the owner,
residing in Washington, is still personally liable for taxes
assessed on his unimproved lots, there is nothing to be found
in this law that, by any fair construction, requires that the
remedy against the person must be exhausted before that
against the property charged with the tax can be resorted
to. It is not necessary to the validity of the assessment and
sale of the property taxed, that the name ofthe true owner be
ascertained. The collector, -therefore, cannot be bound to
search for him, or to distrain the personal property of one
who may or may not be the owner, even-when named as such
in his assessmeht list.
The remedy given by the twelfth section to the corporation
is co-ordinate or cumulative, but is not imperative as a condition precedent to the exercise of the authority to sell the
property assessed. It is a power conferred on the officer, to
be used at his discretion-not a favor to the owner. If he
is unable to pay tle taxes assessed on his property, it may not
I 'VOL. XXU.

28

SUPREME COURT.
Thornpson et al. v. . essee of CarroUd a?.

be a very desirable measure for him to have his household
furniture distrained and sold on ten days' notice, when the
remedy against his land cannot be pursued till two years'
taxes are due and unpaid; and the owner has then two years
more to redeem his land after the sale. A construction of
this act, which made it the imperative duty of the collector to
distrain the personal property, might be ruinous to the pro-prietor, and deprive him of an important privilege.
The city of Washington was laid out on an immense scale.
But a very small portion of the lots and squares were improved or productive. Their value to the owners was, in a
great measure, prospective, while the present burden of taxes,
to those who owned large numbers of them, was, oppressive.
As we see in the present-case, if the collector had levied on
the personal property of the owner for the taxes charged on
his vacant and unproductive lots, it would have left him without furniture in his house, or servant to wait on him. -Hence,
a four years' delay was to him a valuable privilege. It demonstrates, too, the evident policy of the act of Congress in not
compelling a sale of the owner's personal property before the
lands charged could be sold. In Georgetown'and Alexandria,
old-settled towns, where the lots were nearly all improved,
and yielding profit to the owners, the statute adopted P different policy. By the proviso to the eighth section of the act
of 1824, which applies exclusively to those towns, the collector
is not pe'mitted to sell real property where the owner charged
with the tax has sufficient personal estate, out of which to
enforce the collection of the debt due.
The case of Mason v. Fearson (9 How., 248) has been urged
in the argument as an example of the construction of this
statute, which should be followed in this case, and where the
word may is construed to mean must. But that case has no
analogy to the present. It is only where it is necessary to
give effect to the clear policy and intention of the Legislature,
that such a liberty can be taken with the plain words of a
statute. But there is nothing in the letter, spirit, or policy,
,f this act, which requires us to put a forced constructibn on
its language, or interpolate a provision not to be found therein,

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Thompson el al.v. Lessee of Carrollet al.

In this ease, the owners of the tax title have had the posses
sion, paid the taxes, built and made valuable improvements
on the lot, in the presence of the. former owners, for near
twenty years. That which was of comparatively small value
at first, has now become valuable. Under such circumstances,
a court of justice should be unwilling to exercise any judicial
ingenuity to forfeit even a tax title, where the former owners
have been so slow to question its validity.
The counsel for the appellees have endeavored to support
this instruction of the court, by a reference to certain ordinances of the corporation, which, among other things, direct
the collector to levy first on the personal property of the
person chaiged with the tax, unless such person shall give
consent in writing to the contrary. This direction to the
collector is a very proper one. It leaves the election of this
remedy to the person charged, and not to the officer. But
the power to sell the lands for taxes is to be found in the acts
of Congress, not in the ordinances of the corporation. They
can neither increase nor vary it, nor impose any terms or
conditions, (such as evidence of the owner's election,) which
can affect the validity of a sale made within the authority
conferred by the statute.
The purchaser of a tax title is not bound to inquire further
than to know that the sale has been made according to the
provisions of the statute which authorized it. The instructions or directions given by the corporation to their officers
may be right and proper, and may justly be presumed to have
been followed; but the observance or non-observance of them
cannot have the effect of conditions to affect the validity of
the title. "
The question argued by the counsel of appellees, again
bringing up the endless controversy as to the terminus a quo,
in the computation of time, and which was noticed by this
court in the case of Griffith v. Bogert, (18 How.,
162,) is not
in the case as presented by the record, and we cannot anticipate its decision.
Judgment reversed, and venire de nevo.

