SUPREME COURT.
Bondkis v. Skewood et a7must, in the nature of things, be a maii of limited means, and
ineapable of maintaining an expensive suit at law; and it
has always appeared to me the true policy to limit those
questions to the land department of the Government. At all
events, that tley should be limited to the Federal tribunals,
where, it may be presumed, the land department will have an
uniform administration.
As this case now stands, I think the judgment of the
Arkansas Supreme Court must be reversed on two grounds:
1. Because it has reversed the judgment of this court, entered by a majority of the members at December term, 1849,
in these words: "The Supreme Court of the State, in sustaining the demurrers and dismissing the bill, decided against the
pi'e-emption claimed by the representatives of Oloyes; and as
we consider that a valid right, as to tr6 fractional quarter on
which his improvement was made, the judgment of the State
court is reversed."
This is the judgment of this court as it now stands upon
our docket. And
2. The judgment of the State court must be reversed, because it wholly disregarded the directions of this court in
trying the issues transmitted to it.

GEORGE BONDIES, LATE MASTER AND PART OWNER OP THE STEAM.
BOAT KATE, INTERVENING, &C., APPELLANT, V. JAMES P. SHElWOOD, JOSEPH MOOLELLAND, AND BARNEY McG N~is, LIBELLANTS.
Where there was a conimetr for raiang a sunken vessel upon certain stipulation.
the party who raised the vessel cannot abandon it, and claim salvage in a covt
of admiralty.
This court does not now decide whether, in suits for salvage, the suit may be in
personam and in rem jointly. The question is still an open one.
Uor does it decide whether . the. maritime law of salvage applies to a vessel
engaged in the internal trade of a State, proceeding from a port in the same,
up a river wholly within the same.

DECEMBER TERM, 1869
-Bondies v. Skerwood el al.

THis was an appeal from the District Court ,fthe United
States for the eastern district of Texas, sitting in admiralty.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court,
The District Court decreed that the libellants (Sherwood,
McClelland, and McGinnis) should recover the sum of fifty
per cent. salvage upon $5,150, which sum was adjudged to
the libellants against said steamboat Kate, and against George
Bondies, the owner thereof; the money to be raised by a sale
of the steamboat, and, in case of a deficiency,.execution was to
*issue against Bondies, to be levied and collected on the estate,
real and personal, credits and effects, of the said Bondies,
wherever the same may be found.
From this decree Bondies appealed to this courL
It was submitted upon a printed brief by Mr.Hae anla Mr.
•erood for the appellants, no counsel appearing for the appellees.
The counsel for the appellants, as the principal point in the
case, contended that the libellants could not set up that the
contract had been mutually abandoned, and their claim to be
aggneved by the refusal of Bondies to comply with its terms.
They must rest upon their allegation of a tescission of the contract, of which there is no proof whatever.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellees, describing theinselves as ship carpenters, residing in Galveston, filed their libel in the district court of
Texas against the steamboat Kate, and against Bondies, late
master and owner, in a "cause of salvage, civil and maritime."
They charge that the steamboat left the port of Galveston,
for ports and'places on the Trinity river, in said district of
Texas, laden with merchandise. That the boat was snagged
and sunk in the river near Morse's bluff, in Liberty county.
- That on the 24th of April, 1856, the libellants entered into
an article of agreement, under seal, with Bondies, who had be.
come sole owner of both cargo and vessel, to raise the vessel.
In this agreement, the libellants covehant to proceed with

SUPREME COURT.
Bd

,iewv. S7rwood d al.

-the necessary boats, apparatus, &c., and to raise the steamboat
at their own cost in fourteen days after their arrival at the
place where it lay, provided they were not hindered by high
water; when raised, the boat to be taken to Galveston. Bondies covenants to convey the boat to them, on their payment
to him of four thousand dollars, and also to subrogate them to
all his claims against the cargo. But, in the mean time, until
the covenants of libellants were performed, the legal possession of the boat and cargo was to be and remain in Bondies.
- The libel alleges that "this agreement was mutually given
up and abandoned." But this averment is not sustained by
the evidence. On the contrary, it appears that the libellants
proceeded under their contract to raise'the vessel, but did not
succeed till some time in July. The boat and merchandise
being much injured in the operation and by the delay, it turned out that the costs and- expenses would ,exceed the whole
value of the boat and cargo when recovered. The bargain
was therefore an unprofitable one, and.the libellants concluded
to repudiate it, and filed this libel for salvage.
Without adverting to the numerous other facts developed
in the -history of this case, but which cannot affect its merits,
it is very plain, that assuming the seivices rendered by these
mechanics to be in the nature of salvage services, and that a
court of admiralty had jurisdiction to enforce the contract
both against the owner and the boat as a mariime contract,
yet the libellants, by their own showing, cannot recover under
the contract. And it is equally clear that they cannot repudiate their contract, and libel the vessel-far salvage.
(See the Mulgrave, 2 Hagg. Adm., 269, and Abbot on Ship.
ping, 706.)
For this reason alone, the libel must be dismissed.
But there are- two other questions which arise on the face
off this record, and which it will not be necessary to decide,
but which ought not to pass without notice, lest an inference
shou-ld be drawn from our silence that the court considered
them of no importance, or intended to decide them in favor
9f libeJlants;
1. By the 19th rule prescribed by this court for practice in

D ECENMIIER TERM, 18b9

217

Chuw'e v. Jiodton Bdting. Conzjpawj.
the courts of admiralty, it is ordered, that "in all suits for salvage the suit may be in rem against the property saved, QR in
personam against the party at whose request and for Whose benefit the salvage service has been performed." By reference to
Mr. Conklin's treatise, page 42, it will be found that it is the
prevailing opinion that both cannot be joined in the same libel.
The point has not been brought before this court, and we notice it now only to show that it is not now decided.
2. The libel shows that the steamboat was engaged in the
internal trade of the State of Texas, proceeding from a port in
the same, up a river wholly within the same. It is not even
alleged that she had a coasting license. That a court of admiralty had jurisdiction in such a case, or that the maritime
law of Wreck and salvage could be applied to it, are questions
not-made by the pleadings nor noticed in the argument, and
therefore are not decided by the court.
Let the libel be dismissed, with costs.

EDWIN IL.CHAFiE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE BOSTON BELTING COMPANY.
Where a patentee, whose patent had been extended according to law, conveyed
all his interest .to another person, and the assignee brought suit against certain parties for an infringement of' the patent, and these parties claimed.
under a license granted by the original patentee before the assignment, it was
necessary to show a connected chain of title to themselves, in order to justify
their use of the improvements secured by the patent.
Having omitted to do this, the judgment of the court below, which was in favor
of the defendants, must be reversed, and the case remanded for another trial.
Whether the patent was for a process or a machine, is not decided in the present
case.

Tifs case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts.
It was an action of trespass on the case brought by Chaffee
against the Boston Belting Company, for an infringement upon
a patent granted for the manufacture of India-rubber, granted
to Chaffee in 1836, and extended for seven years from the 31st
-lay of August, 1850.

