DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

185

Mazwell et al. v. Moore et al.

more speedy relief, and might be more satisfactory, but we
must administer the law as we find it.
The bond and security given on the writ of error cannot be
regarded as an idle ceremony. It was designed as an indemnity to the defendant in error, should the plaintiff fail to prosecute with effect his writ of error.
We can entertain no doubt that the writ of error is the
legal mode of revising the judgment of the Circuit Court in
this case; and that security having been given on the judgment, as the law requires, it is superseded.
Mr. Justice WAYNE and Mr. Justice GRIER dissented.

DAvID MAXWELL, AND THOMAS WATKINS AND MARY WATKINS
HIS WIFE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. ISRAEL M. MOORE,
MADISON M.

JoHN

MORRIS, HENRY MORRIS,

JAMES P.

KELLEN,

F. BLACK, JAMES F. BATTE, AND WILLIAM M. CRAIG.

An act of Congress, passed in 1812, (2 Stat. at L, 729,) gave a bounty of 160
acres of land to every regular soldier of the army, and made void all sales or
agreements by the grantee before the patent issued.
Another ct, passed in 1826, (4 Stat. at L., 190,) permitted the soldier, under

certain circumstaoces, to surrender his patent, and select other land. This
act did not contain the avoiding clause contained in the first act.
These acts have no necessary connection in this particular, and an agreement to
convey, made after the first patent was surrendered, and before the second was
issued, held to be" valid and binding.

THIs case -was brought up ktom the Supreme Court of the
State of" Arkansas by a writ of error issued under the 25th

section"of the judiciary act.
Maxwell and Watkins brought an ejectment against Moore
and others, to recover the northeast quarter of iection ten, in
township seven north, range seven west, containing 160 acres of
land, in the county of White, and State of Arkansas. The plaintiffs claimed dhder the heirs of one McVey, upon the ground
that, under the two acts of Congress of 1812 and 1826, McVey
..ould not alienate his land, or covenant to convey it away

SUPREME COURT.
Hfaxwedl et a7. v. Moore et al.

before the issuance of a patent. There were otber points
involved in the trial in the State courts, as will be seen by a
reference to 18 Arkansas Rep., 475. But the above was the
only point before this court.
It was submitted on printed arguments by Mlr. Fowler for
the plaintiffs in error, and Mr. Watlkins for the defendants.

A'r. Fowler contended, on the part of the plaintiff in error,
that the several amendatory acts engrafted on the act of May
6, 1812, continue also in force the prohibitory clause, declaring all sales, contracts, &e., void, where they are made before
the patent issues. And, if so, the contract of sale made by
McVey to Pelham was null and void; and the land, entered
and patented' in McVey's name, enured to the benefit of his
heirs and their assignees. after the patent was issued, 'nd not
to Pelham, or his assignees, under such void contract.
The Circuit Court twice expressly decided that the contract
of sale from McVey to Pelham was valid, denying distinctly
the rights of McVey's heirs and their assignees, under these
acts of Congress; which the Supreme Court of the State
broadly affirmed. See the bill of exceptions, the judgment
of the Supreme Court, and its .opinion, in 18 Ark. Rep., p.
475 to 480.
Hence, the plaintifis have a right to a revision of the judgment, under the 25th section of the judiciary act of 1789.
The whole legislation upon these bounty lands, especially
the acts above referred to, shows conclusively the intention bf
Congress to guard and protect the rights of the soldier and
his heirs, and to prevent speculation in the lands.
And in all such cases, the courts construe such acts favorably
and liberally, for the protection of the recipients of the bounty
of the Government, and against the speculators in such batmty.See 2 Laws, Instr., and Opin., p.'177, Opinion of A-.iorGeneral Taney, No. 115.
4 Ark. Rep., 279, Nicks's Heirs v. Recor.
1 Pet. Rep., 667, Ross v. Doe, ex dem. Barlmud et ol.
16 Ark. Rep., 462, Wynn v. Garland.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

187

Mfaxwe.U el al. v. Moore et al.

2 Porter (Ala.) Rep., 152, McElyea v. Hayter.
The established rule of construction, and which is insisted,
oil the part of the plaintiffs in error, is applicable to and protects them in this case, is:
That where there are several legislative acts, in pari maieria,
relating to the same subject matter, as these are, they must be
taken and compared together, in their construction, as one
act, because they are considered as having one object in view,
and as acting upon one system. And they must be considered
as all gQverned by one spirit and policy, and intended to be
consisient and harmonious in, all their parts and provisions.
See 1 Kent's Coin., (5th ed.,) 463.
23 Miss. Rep., 74, White v. Johnson.
1 Burr. Rep., 447, Rex v. Loxdale et al.
1 Dougl. Rep., 30, Ailesbury v. Pattison.
Smith's Com. on Stat. and Const. Construction, sees. 636,
637, 638, 639, 642, 643.
And -the foregoing rule applies, although some of the
statutes may have expired, or are not referred to in the subsequent acts.
See 1 Kent's Com., (5thi ed.,) 463.
1 Burr. Rep., 447, Rex v. Loxdale et al.
Smith's Coin. on Stat. and Const. Construction, sees.
637, 638.
Even a subsequent and amendatory act of limitations, not
providing for a case specified in the former act, it will by the
court be intended and presumed that the Legislature designed
the latter to be governed by the previous act.
See 23 Miss. Rep., 301, Robertson v. De Moss.
See, also, on this point, Smith's Com. on Stat. and Const.
Construction, secs. 638, 643.
The intention of Congress, from a fair construction of the
several acts on the subject, was manifestly to protect the
soldier in his float, as much as in his original warrant, and in
either case to make all contracts of sale before the issuing of
the patent void. And an object or thing which, wiihin the
intention of the Legislature in making a statute, is as much
vithin the statute as if it were within the letter.

188

SUPREME COURT.
.faoxwell et al. i. Mfoore et aL.-

15 Johns. Rep., 880, 381, People v.. Utica Ens. Co.
Smith's Com. on Stat. and Cont. Construction, sec. 510.
Mr. Watkins said:
It is true that the military bgunty act of 1812 contained a
prohibition against any sale or assignment by the soldier of
his bounty, until after the issuance of the patent, and declaring all such assignments void. Such restrictions are of very
questionable utility, either by way of benefit or protection to
thq soldier, us all past experience has proved; are contrary to
the almost universal poliqy of our laws, to allow, if not to
favor, the right to free alienation of property, real as well as
personal. As it regards that particular enactment, however,
thqre was a motive, as expressed in the act itself, which was
to prevent the land, so long as the title remained in the Government, from being subject to the debts of the soldier. And
the reason of the law was to take away from the soldier the
temptation of selling his equitable interest in g tract of land,
drawn for him in the wheel, situate in a new and wild region
of country, at a great distance from the soldier, and which he
had never visited, ana had no opportunities for judging of its
value. There was also a reason, with perhaps the additional
one of preventing frauds on the Government, for the analogous
-restriction (and that of short duration) in the first general
pre-emnptiou act of 1830, because it was supposed that, in many
instances, the settlers in remote and frontier regions of country
might sell their improvements or settlement rights, in ignorance of the'terms and provisions of the act for their protec.
tion, or even of the passage of such an act.
But, as those military bounties were selected by lottery, it
inevitably resulted, that in many instances the lands proved
unfit for cultivation, and worthless. And on the 22d May,
1826, an act of Congress was passed, authorizing the soldier to
surrender and reconvey to the Uiiited States the bounty tract
which had been patented to him, and to locate in lieu of it a
like quantity of the public land within the military district, on
proof, to the satisfaction of the proper register and receiver,
that the tract originally patented to him was- unfit forcultiva-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
.axwdl

189

et al. v. Moore et al.

Lon, and that his right to it had not- been divested or-encumbered by sale or otherwise; and in order to entitle himself to .
the benefits of the apt, the soldier must have removed to the
Territory of Arkansas, with a view to actual settlement on the
land drawn by him. This act. was revived aid extendea by
various acts, until the act of 27th of May, 1840, which revived
and extended it for five years from that date. Such ights to
locate were called "floats,': and, as proved in this case, and
indeed a part of the public history of Arkansas, were the common subject of sale and transfer. Neither the act of 1826,
nor any of the subsequent acts extending it,- contained any
restriction whatever against alienation; and no presumption
ought to be indulged in favor of A restraint on alienation,
when no conceivable reason continued to exist, which might
be supposed to have influenced the prohibition in.the first instan.ce. The soldier had become a spttler, fully cognizant of
all his rights, receiving" his certificate of a floating right, not
as a mere gratuity, but upoh consideration of reconveying to
the Government the land originally patented to him. At the 'time McVey sold his right of float to William Pelham, the act
of 1840, authorizing such floats, was in force. If it was a
power coupled with an interest, it did not cease-after McVey's
death. But f"it was a mere-iiaked power, it did cease, and
the location, &c., was voi'd; and the plaintiffs, as heirs of MeVey cannot claim under it. But the plaintiffs are bound to
claim under the patent, atid so. recognise the validity of Pel:
ham's acts, and, as a consequence, the validity of his title, because, unless he acted for himself, and not as the mere naked
agent of McVey, he had nb power t? adt.
This restriction against assignment in the bounty act bf
1812 is not included within the terms, spirit, or policy, of the
acts of 1826, 1830, and 1840, allowing floats. Here, the sail
was n~ot of the land drawn by the soldier, but of his floating
right, a mere chose in action, (MulhoJlan v. Thompson, IS
Ark., 232,) and after al the purposes of the act of 1812 had
heen accomplished. McVey, in receiving pay for the sale-of
his float, would be guilty of an immoral and fraudulent act, to
attempt to i-Cptldiate it. His suipposed heirs, or rather those

SUPREME COURT.
.Haxwellet al. v. Moore et a.

who tampered with them, stand in no better situation. Besides, according to the whole*theory of our Government, laws
restricting alienation are to be strictly construed, and not extended without an express intention appears. It is inconsist
ent with the nature of property, if the individual owning property, or a right to property, has not the power to alienate it:
4 Kent Com., 479.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause is brought before us by writ of error to the
Supreme Court of Arkansas, and presenits a single question
for our consideration.
Allen McVey served as a regular soldier in the war of 1812,
and was entitled to a tract of 160 acres of land as a bounty for
his services. The land was located and granted in what is
now the State of Arkansas. By the act of May 6, 1812, which
granted the bounty lands, all sales or agreements made by a
grantee of these lands before the patent issued were declared
to be void.
Many tracts of the lands granted turned out to be unfit for
cultivation, so that the soldier took no benefit; and, as comphnsation, the act of May 22, 1826, declares that the soldier,
or his heirs, to whom bounty land has been patented in
the Territory of Arkansas, and which is unfit for cultivation,
and who has removed or shall remove to Arkansas with a
view to actual settlement on the land, may. relinqjuish it to the
United States, and enter a like quantity elsewhere in the district, which may be patented to him. This act was continued
in fbrce by that of May 27th, 1840.
McVey surrendered his first patent according to the act of
1826, and in 1842 another issued in his name for the land in
dispute.
In 1834, McVey gave William Pelham a bond to convey to
him the land that might be entered on his certificate of surrender, (known as a float,) and a power of attorney to locate
the same, and- ?btain the patent. McVey died in 1836. In
1842, Pelham entered the land in controversy in MeVey'o
tanle.

DECEMUBER TERM, 1859.

191

Mazwdl et dl. v. Moore d~al.

A-special act of the Legislature of the State of Arkansas
was passed, authorizing McVey's administrator to convey the
land to Pelham, which was done.
Afterwards, the plaintifis in error obtained a conveyance
from the heirs of McVey, on which their action of ejectment
is founded. As the title vested in Allen MeVey's heirs by
the patent of 1842, they could well convey the land unless the
administrator's deed stood in the way. Galloway v. Findley, 13
Peters, 264. That the special act of Assembly authorized the
administrator to make a valid deed, and divest the title of the
heirs, was decided in this case by the Supreme Court of Arkansas, and which. decision on the effect of the State law is conclusive on this court. We exercise jurisdiction to revise errors
committed by. State courts, where the plaintiff in error claims
title by force of an act of Congress, and the title has been rejected on the ground that the act did not support it. And
this raises the question, whether the act of 1826, allowing the
soldier to exchange his land, carried with it the prohibition
against alienation contained in the act of 1812.
The court below held that it did not, and that Allen McVey
did lawfully bind himself to Pelham for title.
It is insisted that the acts of 1812 and 1826 are on the same
subject, must stand together as one.lrovision, and the last act
cary with it the prohibition~found in the first. We are of the
opinion that the acts have no necessary connection; that there
was no good reason why the soldier who removed to Arkansas,
and inspected his tract of land, then patented, and alienable,
should not contract to convey the tract lie might get in exchange. We can only here say, as we did in the case of
French v. Spencer, (21 How., 238,) that the act of 1826 is
plain on its thce and single in its purpose; and that in such
cases the rule is, that where the Legislature makes a-plain
provision, without making any exception, the courts of justice
can make none, as it would be legislating to do so.
There being no other question presented by the record withthe jurisdiction conferred on this court by the 25th section
of the judiciary act, we order that judgment of the Supreme
Court ot Arkansis be afirmed.

