DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

19

Whik et aZ. v. Wright e al.

Lions or agreements on which the deed was executed. Hall v.
Combes, Cro. Eliz., 368; Jackson v. Moore, 6 Cow., 706;
Drew v. Drew, 8 Foster, 489; 4 Cruise Dig., 292; 85 N. H.
R., 121; 5 Metcalf, 15.
Upon the whole case, we are of opinion there is no error in
the record injurious to the plaintiff and that the judgment ot
the Distribt Court must be affirmed.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissented.

J. J. B. WHITE (DEFENDANT)

AND GiLBimT S. HAwKINS AND
PETER J. COCKBURN, bOMPOStNG THE FIRM OP OAKEY, HAWKflmS, & Co., AND MRS. W. C. W. FAUST, WIDOW, AND MRS.

REBECCA 3. WHITE, AIDED AND ASSISTED BY -ER HusBAND,
J. J. B. WHITE, (INTERVENOMs,) PLnINTs IN ERROR, v.
WRIGHT, WILLIAMS, & CO.
Where the question decided by the Supreme Court of Louisiana was, that the
introduction of a judgment obtained in Mississippi for the same cause of action
which was then before the court of Louisiana was not such an alteration of the
substance of the demand as was forbidden by the code of practice, this is not

a question which can be revised by this court under the twenty.fifth Bection
of the judiciary act; it being merely a uestion of pleading and evidence in
support of a new allegation, arising according to the practice in Louisiana s6
a'to reach the-merits of the case.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court. of
Louisiana by a writ of.error issued under the twenty-fifth
section of the judiciary act.
It originated in tbe Fourth District Court of gew Orleans,
upon the petition of Hamilton W. Wright, who stated that
he was the sole assiiee of the lights and interests of the late
commercial firm of Wright, Williams, & Co. The petition
then stated that J. J. B. White, who resided out of the State
of Louisiana, was indebted tb the petitioner, as such assignee,:
in the. 4um of $9,509.32 with interest and prayed for an
attachment upon his property. The writ was issued, and,
%cvicdupon one hundred nd- fifty-four'bales of cotton or

SUPREME COURT.
White et al. v. Wrigt e a.

board the steamboat Sallie Robinson. The consignees, Oakey,
Hawkins, & Co., intervened, and claimed thp cotton as the
property of O'Donnell; and afterwards Rebecca J. White, the
wife of the defendant, and Mrs. S. C. W. Faust, intervened,
and claimed the cotton attached as their joint, undivided,
separate property.
The writ of attachment was issued on the 17th November,
1856.
On the 29th May, 1857, the case thus being at issue, the
plaintiff filed an amended and supplemental petition, in which
he states that since the institution of this suit, upon the 29th
-f December, 1856, at a Circuit Court in and for the fifth
judicial district of the State of Mississippi, in and for the
county of Yazoo, a judgment was rendered in favor of petitioner, against the defendant, White, fQr the same subject
matter stated in the original petition filed in this cause, as
appears by the annexed transcript of the proceedings in this
case filed for reference, and as part of said supplemental and
amended petition, and prayed for judgment as in said original
petition.
On June 11th, 1857, the defendant through his curator filed
an exception to the amended petition, on the ground that the
original cause of action, if any ever existed, had been merged
in the judgment rendered in the State of Mississippi; that this
court, by the proceedings of plaintiffs, had been divested of
jurisdiction in the matters in controversy, and should be dismissed at plaintiffi' costs. He further plead resjudicata.
On the 19th of Nfovember, 1857, the intervenors filed similar
pleas.
The Fourth District Court decided as follows, viz:
Article 419, C. P., declares: "After issue joined, the plaintiff may, with the leave of the court, amend his original peti.
tion, provided the amendment does not alter the substance of
his deirand by making it different from the one originally
brought."
The original debt sued on has been merged in the judgment
rendered in the State of Mississippi; and, as the judgment is
entitled to the same force and eftect as if rendered in Louis.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

21

White efal. v. Wgltteial-

iana, no action can be maintained on the original cause of
action, viz: the open account.

2 N. S., 604.
The allegations in the supplemental petition alter the substance of the demand within the meaning of article 419, C. P.
See Dennistoun v. Payne, 7 Ann., 334.
Oakey v. Murphy, 1 Ann., 372; 3 Ann., 375, 388.
The amendment cannot be allowed; and, as the original
cause of action has been deftroyed by the plaintiffs' own
showing, it follows that the exceptions must be sustained, and
plaintiffs' petition be dismissed with costs, which is accordingly hereby ordered.
Upon-the construction of article 419, Code of Practice, (togethe with othe points which have no connection with this
report,) the case went up to the Supreme Court, which reversed the judgment of the court below, and gave judgment
for the plaintiff.
The opinion of the Supreme Court upon the point whether
the allegation of the judgment in Mississippi altered the substance of the demand, within the meaning of article 419, was
as follows:
3. The exception filed by the attorney appointed to represent the -defendant should have been overruled. The plaintiff
had the right, under the law of Louisiana, to sue the defendant in the courts of this State, and also in the courts 6f Mississippi, at the same time, and for the same cause of action.
This right necessarily carries with it the accessory right to
prosecute the suits in the courts of the two different States to
final judgments on the merits. This right is remedial, and
is intended to secure to the creditr all possible means for the
collection of his debt in different jurisdictions. If the excep.
tion filed on behalf of defendant were sufficient in law to
dismiss the" plaintiffs' action, the riglit to institute separate
actions in different States for the -same debt would be iugatory; for, sb soon as a judgment shou:ld be obtaincd in one
State, it could be made the means of dismissing the suit in
the other, and thereby deprive the creditor of the fruits of his
diligence in the undecided suit.

22

SUPREME COURT.
White et al. v. Wrigh e al.

Con ceding that the account sued on was merged in the Mississippi judgm~ent, the -debt was not thereby extinguished, but
established to- be due and owing from the defendant to the
plaintiff. This judgment .in Mississippi is only evidence of
the existence of the debt, for the recovery of which this suit
was instituted, the affidavit was made, the attachment bond
was given, and the writ of attachment issued, and there is no
legal reason why this judgment should not be substituted, by
way of amendment, as the cause of action, in place of the
account, for the purpose of maintaining the attachment.
The fact that the judgment is for a greater amount than
claimed and sworn to by the plaintiff is immaterial, for the
reason that the attachment is only valid as against the property for the amount sworn to, whatever may be the amount
claimed in the petition.
The supplemental petition did not change the substance of
the demand. The prayer of the original petition is, that the
attachment be maintained, and that the defendant be condemned to pay the sum bf $9,509.32 aid interest, with privilege upon the property atthched, and the prayer of the supplemental petition is the same.
The defendant and intervenors sued out a writ of error
under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act, and brought
the case up to this court.
Mr. Be7anzin moved to dismiss the writ of error, because
this case is not one in which. this court has jurisdiction to
revise the decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana under
the twenty-fifth section.
Mr. Justice McLEAIN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to.the Supreme Court of the State -of
Louisiana.
The defendant in error, by his counsel, J. P. Benjamin,
Esq., moves the court that the writ of error issued in this
cause be dismissed, for the reason that this case is not on, in
which the court has jurisdiction to revise the decision of the
Supreme Court of Louisiana.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

23

Lawler v. Ciaflin et al.

On looking into the record, there appears to be no ground
on which this writ of error can be maintained. There is no
complaint that the obligation of a contract has been impaired,
nor that any right has been claimed and refused under any
treaty or act of Congress. The cause must therefore be
dismissed, for want of jurisdiction.

WILL AM B. LAWLER, AP'PELLANT, V. HORACE B. CLAFLIN, WILLIAM H. MELLEN, NATHANIEL F. MILLER, DAviD H. CONKLING, AND HzNRY STONE.
Where proceedings were had in Minnesota for the sale of property mortgaged to
secure a debt, and the judgment of the court below was, that the property
should be sold, there appears to be no error in the judgment, and it must
therefore be affirmed.

THIs was an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Minnesota.
The action was commenced in the District Court, second
district, county of Ramsey, by Claflin and the other defendants in error, against Lawler and thirty-two other persons, who
were claimants under Lawler.
The statutes of Minnesota abolished the distinction between
the forms of action at law, and declared that there should be in
the Territory but one form of action at law, to be called a civil
action, for the enforcement and protection of private rights
and the redress of private wrongs, except as otherwise expressly provided by statute. The only pleadings allowed on the
part of the plaintiff were: 1, the complaint; 2, the reply or
demurrer; and on the part of the defendant, the demurrer and
answer. All equity and chancery jurisdiction, authorized by
the original act of the Territory, shall be exercised, and all
suits or proceedings to be instituted for that purpose are to be
commenced, prosecuted, and conducted to a final decision and
judgment, by the like process, pleadings, trial, and proceedings, as in civil actions, and shall be called civil actions.
Under this mode of practice, laflin and the other defend.

