SUPREME COURT.
eAsos et al. v. Leand et al.

Supreme Court. But on the twenty-seventh of December.
1.859, a paper was filed in the clerk's office, in. form of a writ
of error, but without a seal, and having no authenticated transcript annexed.
From this it appears that no writ of error has been certified
with the transcript, and that the paper purporting to be a writ
of error, which was flied in December last, being without seal,
was void. Two terms of this court have intervened, not ineluding the -present term, since the transcript was certified,
without a writ of error.
The cause must therefore be- dismissed for these irregularities, without noticing others apparent on the record.

STEPHEN 0. NELSON, ELLISON BANKSMITH, HENRY C. WALKER,
AND THOMAS A. NELSON, PARTNERS UNDER THE FIRM OF S.
0. NELSON & Co., APPELLANTS, v. Lucius C. LELAND, JOHN
H. CooxE, DUNCAN C. WILLIAMS, AND MORAE, COFMANI, &
CO., CLAIMANTS OF THE STEAMER BRIGADIER GENERAL

R. H.

SToxEs.
In a collision which took place between a steamboat and a flat-boat on the
Yazoo river, more than two hundred miles from its mouth where it falls into
the Mississippi river, both vessels were in fault-the flat.boat, becattse it
had not one or more steady and fixed lights on one or more conspicuous parts
of the boat, ad because of its erroneous position in the river; and the steam.
boat, because the master, seeing a liglt ahead, did not stop his boat, and reverse her wheels, until the locality of the light was clearly ascertained.
The collision tool, place within the admiralty jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States.
Upon a motion to dismiss an appeal, upon the ground of a want of jurisdiction
originally in the District Court, the question of jurisdictidn in that court is a
proper one for appeal to thlis court, and for argument when the case is regu.
larly reached. This court have jurisdiction on such an appeal. The motion to
dismiss, upon that ground, must therefore be overruled.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

States for the eastern district of Louisiana, sitting in admiralty.

DECEMfBER TERM, 1859.

49

N lson el al. v. Ldand et al.

It was a case of collision between the steamboat Brigadier
General R. H. Stokes and a flat-boat called '"Clear the Track,"
which occurred upon the Yazoo river, 200 miles above its
mouth where 'it empties into the Mississippi, twelve miles
above Vicksburg, and wholly within the State of Mississippi.
Its waters are fresh, and there are no tides in it. The libel
was filed by N elson & Co., the consignees of the flat-boat, and
of 366 bales of cotton shipped on board of it.
The District Court gave judgment in favor of the libellants
for the sum reported by the commissioners, viz: $7,616.44.
The CircuitCourt was of opinion that the exception taken to
the jurisdiction of the court was well founded, annulled the
decree of the District Court, and dismissed the libel with costs.
The libellants appealed to this court.
At December term, 1857, Mr. Gillet, of counsel for the appellees, moved the court to dismiss this appeal, "upon- the
ground of a want of jurisdiction originally in the District
Court." Upon which motion, Mr. Chief Justice Taney
delivered the opinion of the court, that the question of jurisdiction in the lower court is a proper one for appeal to this
court, and for argument when the case is regularly reached,
and that this court have jurisdiction on such appeal. The.
motion t dismiss the appeal on that ground was therefore
overruled.
At that term, Mr. Gillet and .Mr. Cushing filed an elaborate
brief against the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States
in this case; but at that term the court decided the case of
Jackson v. SteambQat Magnolia, which is reported in 20 Howard, 292. The points and authorities referred to in the brief
were examined and ruled in that case, and therefore it is not
necessary to state them in the present report.
The case was argued upon the facts as they appeared in evi
dence by Mr. Pike for the appellants, and Mr. Gillet for the
appellees. Each party accused the other of negligence and
want of skill in several particulars, which points would be of
little interest to the general reader, and are therefore passed
over.
VOL. XXII.

4

SUPIEME COURT.
Nelson et al. v. Leland dt aL.

Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in admiralty from the Circ.uit Court of the
United States of the eastern district of Louisiana.
The libellants allege that they were the consignees of a
certain flat-boat called "Clear the Track," and of three hundred and sixty-six bales of cotton, which were shipped to them
by various persons by. said flat-boat; that said boat left Sardinia, on Yakana river, in the State of Mississippi, on the 19th
February, 1858, bound for INw Orleans; that on the 2d farch
ensuing, on said voyage, descending the Yazoo river, about
eight miles below the head of .Honey Island, and within the
admiralty jurisdiction, about four o'clock on the morning of
said day, the flat-boat, being a stanch, tight, and well-built
vessel, completely rigged and well provided with tackle, apparel, and furniture, and having on board a full complement
of men to navigate the boat, being about the middle of the
said Yazoo river, leaving sufficient space on either side for a
steamboat or other large vessel to pass, and having a light
upon the flat-boat, the captain and crew of the boat being up,
the steamboat Brigadier General R. H. Stokes, ascending the
said river, struck the flat-boat" Clear the Track" in the bows,
which caused her to fill with water, and become a complete
wreck; that the steamboat rung her bell, reeognising the light
of the flat-boat, but continuing to run up the middle of the
river.
In their afiswers, the respondents say that the collision set
forth in the libel occurred on the Yazoo river, about fifty miles
above the foot of said island, and more than two hundred miles
above the mouth of the Yazoo, where it falls into the Mississippi river; and that the entire length of the Yazoo river is
within the State of Mississippi; and they allege that the District Court has not jurisdiction of the matters and things, or
the claim alleged in the libel against the respondent. And
the respondent denies that the collision was caused or did
happen by any fault, negligence, or want of skill, in the officers
or crew of the steamboat; and they say it was caused by the
unskilful management of the flat-boat; and the proper 'place
for the flat-boat, it is said, was at the shore at night; and that

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Nedson et aZ. v. Leland et al.

there was not sufficient space for the steamboat to pass between
the flat-boat and the shore.
D. B. Miller says: I have seen the flat-boat; she seemed to
have a sufficient number of hands.on board, and to be well
managed. From the size of the boat, witness thinks she was
suitable for the navigation of the Yazoo and Mississippi rivers,
and from her size she would carry three hundred and fifty
bales of cotton and more.
Jackson Harris is of the same opinion. James D. Bell ex.amined the boat well, and considered her strong and well built.
Saw her loaded with three hundred and forty bales of cotton,
and says she would have carried fifty more bales safely. Capt.
Williams was captain of the flat-boat " Clear the.Track" when
the collision dccurred. Besides himself, he bad five hands and
one passenger, who also worked. Witness began his trip at
Sardinia, on the Yakana river. The flat-boat had three hundred and seventy-one bales of cotton on board. N~othing of
importance occurred until the mornirng of the second of March,
1853, when a steamer was heard coming up the river, which
afterwards proved to be the Brigadier General R. H. Stokes.
Witness had laid down about twelve o'clock that night, but
was shortly afterwards awaked by Johnson, one*of his hands,.
who informed him a steamboat was approaching, and he desired witness to be on deck. Witness saw the steamer approaching, at a distance of about half a mile. A light on deck
was immediately prepared. At this time, the steamboat was
about four or five hundred yards out of sight round the point.
The witness ordered his men, four of whom were on deck at
the time, to throw the boat out from the point, so as to give
the steamer room to pass. Continued efforts were made for
this purpose, until the collision occurred.
When the boats came together, all hands were at the oars,
except Mr. Johnson, who hlh the light. The steamboat could
be seen across the point. It was some fifteen minutes, the
steamboat being in full view, before the boats came into collision. The flat-boat was struck on the first stanchfon from
the corner of the bow nearest the point of the nosing, about
three feet froim the jackstaff of the steamer. The collision was

SUPREME COURT.
Nelson et al.v. Leland et al.

very severe-so great as to knock every one down on the flatboat. Witness was knocked down senseless by the crane-neck
of the oar, but he saw all the others fall before he fell. When
witness recovered from the effect of the blow, he perceived the
steamer had passed out of his view. Every effort was made
to stop the hole made in the flat-boat by the steamer, and, by
working the pump, to keep the boat from sinkifig. The boat
floated down some twenty-five miles before they could land
her. In less than an hour after the collision, the boat sank
six feet deeper in the water, and became unmanageable; and
a landing was made, with great difficulty, at some three or
four o'clock in the afternoon.
The steamer Stacey came down the river the next day, and
she took on two hundred bales of the cotton, including the
thirty-five on shore. Before the arrival of the Stacey, wit,
ness bad engaged the steamboat McLean to gb up and take
up the cotton that could be saved.
Witness has .been engaged in flat-boating on the Yazoo
river for the last -eighteen years. He does not consider the
place where the collision happened as unsafe to run a flat-boat
at night, and that it is not usual to tie up flat-boats' in that
part of the river.
The witness says the flat-boat had a torch made of split pine
boards, as usual on- such occasions. The Stacey met the flatboat in a very narrow part of the river, much narrower than
where the*flat-boat met the Stokes. The Stacey was much
nearer the flat-boat when she rang her bell than the Stokes,
but she backed oit of the way. The Stacey is double the
size of the Stokes, it being the largest boat that runs up the
Yazoo.
Mr. Johnson is corroborated by others in his statement.
Thomas Barnes says the steamer did not change her course
after seeing the flat-boat. The steamer was not hurt. Her
,ackstaff was knocked oft; ivhich was replaced. Did not hear
Captain Williams offer any assistance to the flat-boat. At the
time the steamer struck the flat-boat, she was nearly in full
headway.
Witnes thinbs t1re was time enougl for the stnainer t.

DECEMBER TERM, 1869.

53

Neson et al. v. Ldand d al.

-get out of the way of the flat-boat. The master of the boat
entered a regular protest against the steamer. A.number of
witnesses referred to facts which have no material bearing -in
the case.
On the part of the respondent, it was proved by William F.
Mouldin, the pilot on the Yazoo since 1845, and was so acting
on the Stokes when the collision occurred, eight miles from
the head of Honey Island: The bell was rung to stop at Hall's
Landing. Directly after ringing the large bell to land, saw a
light, as he supposed, at the landing. The river was narrow
and the current swift.. After running a short distance, and
rounding the point, saw the flat-boat about three hundred
yards above the steamer. He immediately rang the bell to
stop the engines, and then to back her, which was done.
When she had made about six revolutions, the collision took
place. The steamboat was nearly at a stand. The flat-boat
was floating nearly broadside down the river. There was no
possible means by which a collision could be avoided. The
steamboat could not pass on either side of the flat-boat. This,
however, is controverted by other witnesses, who say that there
was space on each side of the flat-boat for the steamer to pass
up the river.
That the light on the flat-boat was seen some two or three
hundred yards by the steamer approaching the flat-boat, is adinitted; but it is urged that a steady light should have appeared on the flat-boat; that a waving lighted torch often
misleads an ascending boat, on the supposition that it is on
shore, and.designates a landing-place. Several of the witnesses
say, that on observing the approach of the flat-boat, the wheel
of the steamer wag reversed, and same five or six revolutions
-had been performed when the collision occurred. Some of
the witnesses think that the force of the steamer was checked,
so that its movement up the river could scarcely be perceived
whei the steamer struck the flat-boat.
Ithas happened in this case, as in all other cases of collision,
that the witnesses on board of their respective boats, from the
eircumstapees which surrounded them, 4nd the favorable impressions naturally felt. in regard to the efforts made by their

SUPREME COURT.
N.son el a, v. Leland ef al.

respective crews to save the property, and lives under their
charge, differ widely in their opinions. The steamboat received but little or no injury by the collision; but the flat,
boat, in its structure and cargo, received material injury. The
evidence fully proves this, not only in regard to the flat-boat
and cargo, but also as to the expense and loss to which the
owner was subjected.
It is unnecessary to go into detail to show the facts proved.
It is enough to know the character of the transaction, and the
.esponsibi~ties incurred by the respective parties.
The general rule is, where two vessels meet each other, one
propelled by steam and the other by the winds, the steamer
must give way, and avoid a collision. To this no one can object; but, .like'other general rules, it may be subj'ect to exceptions.
The V'azoo ext6nds, from its junction with the Mississippi
river, some two hu).dred miles and upwards into the State of
Mississippi, and in some parts its navigation requires care and
experience. Its channel widens and deepens as the volume of
water increases; but it is a narrow river, and its course is
crooked-but the Stacey and other boats, of a large class for
:nland boats, navigate it with success.
Several of the steamboat wmtnesses think that a flat-boat,
laden with three hundred and seventy bales of cotton, ought
not to run on a dark night, but should be tied up, where the
channel is narrow, and have fixed lights, which distinguish it
from a place of landing. Other witnesses differ from "the
above, and say that an inland navigation so long and important as this, ought to be left free to the enterprise of its inhabitants. This is more congenial to the spirit of our people than
a regulation which would retard commerce, without any adequate beneficial results. 1Ko measure of this character could
well be ailopted, without an accurate survey of the river, ip
which the points of danger should be designated. Until this
shall be done, it would seem most judicious not to go beyond
a regulation for boats, passing each other iiA ascending aild
descending this river, having lights, and giving notice of thci
upp'oach.. There are regulations which apply to our internal
-

DECEIBER TERM, 1859.
Nelson et aZ. v. Leland e al.

navigation, embracing our rivers and other waters. Under
these, every master of a boat should act with a presumed
knowledge of his duty, and be held responsible accordingly.
We think, in several particulars, the captain of the flat-boat
was in fault. He should have had one or more steady and
fixed lights on one or more conspicuous parts of his boat. He
should have been careful, by having the upper and lower end
sweeps or oars so worked as to have occupied near the shore
of the river, giving a sufficient passage to the.ascending steamboat. Especially he should have so guided his boat as to have
kept it on a straight line of the water, and not on a diagonal
course. It is easily perceived that, from the position of the
flat-boat, it was difficult, if not impracticable, to ascend the
river by the steamer without striking the flat-boat, in the position it occupied.
But we think ther*e was also fault in the steamer. In rounding the point, it is admitted, the steamer was at least three
hundred yards below the flat-boat. Seeing the light ahead,
the master, in the use of ordinary caution, should have
stopped his boat at once, and reversed her wheels, until the
locality of the light was clearly ascertained. .It is no excuse,
that he -mistook the light for a place of landing. The commander cannot lessen his responsibility by alleging his mistake. He is bound to make no mistake, for it is his duty to
stop his boat where he doubts, until he aicertains the facts.
Had this been done, the collision could not have occurred.
He could-have backed his boat, until he avoided.the flat-boat.
In hot having done this, the steamer was in fault, and the
damages must be divided between the two .boats; and also the
costs.
Some doubts have been suggested whether, in the exercise of
the admiralty jurisdiction, some limit may not be interposed.
Under the English system, the ebb and flow of the tide,
with few if any exceptions, established the fact of navigability; and this was the course of decision in this country, until
recently.
The vast extent of our fertile country, its increasing com-;
merce, its inland seas, bays, and rivers, open-to us a commer-

SUPIREME COURT.
SpriWfield TowA4j v. Quickc el aZ.

cial prosperity in the future which no nation ever enjoyed.
Our contracted views of the English admiralty, which was
limited by the ebb and flow of the tide, were discarded, and
the more liberal principles of the civil law, equally embraced
by the Constitution, were adopted.
This law is commercial in its character, and applies to all
navigable waters, except to a commerce exclusively within a
State. Many of our leading rivers are sometimes unnavigable; but this cannot affect their navigability at other times.
A commerce carried on between two or more States is subject
to-the laws and regulations of Congress, and to the.admiralty
jurisdiction.
Upon the whole, the decree of the Circuit Court is reversed;
and the cause is remanded, under the above order of this Court.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL dissented, and Mr. Justice CATRON concurred for the reason stated by him.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL dissenting:
The decree in the Circuit Court, dismissing the libel in thib
cause, was rendered before the judgment in this couit in the
case of Jackson v. Magnolia, 20 How., 292, was given.. There
is no material diflerence in the cases. The reasons for the
judgment of the Circuit Court in this case are contained in
the opinion filed by me in that case. L do not considerdit
necessary or proper to repeat them here. I concur in the
judgment of the court upon the merits of the cause.
Mr. Justice CATRON concurs with the opinion of the court,
because the question of jurisdiction, involved in this cause,
was ruled in the case of the Magnolia, referred o by 14r. Jus.
tice Campbell.
SPRINGpIELD TowNsHIP, OF FRANKLIN COUNTY, PLAINTIFF IN

ERROR. V. JOHN H. Quiox, AUDITOR, AND WILLIADI ROBESON,
"!REA5URER, OF FRANKLIN COUNTY.

(ongresg re-qervpa the sixteenth section of the public lands in all the new States
fbr the stuu nr of schools, for the benefit-of the inhabitants of the township.

