JANUARY TERM, 1849.

745

McDonald v. Hobson.
McAiTmn, DEWILLLAx McDoNAL,
ADmINISTRATOR or DuNOa
CEASED, PLiNTNiNp IN ERROR, V. MATTHEW HOBSON.
Where the complainant and respondent in a suit in chancery entered intd a mutual
covenant, that, pending the,suit, they would divide the money between them in
certain proportions, and that if,
in the said suit, it should be decreed that these
were not the correct proportions, they would respectively pay the difference so as
to conform to the decree i and the result of said suit was a dismissal of the complainant's bill, with costs; and the respondent brought an action of covenant
against the complainant, reciting the agreement in his declaration, with an averment, that, by virtue of the decree of dismissal, he was entitled to receive a certain
stun of money, - this declaration was bad.
The ag.derment looked to a judicial determination of the rights of the parties in some
court of law or equity,'and the declaration omits all averment that these rights had
been io settfed.
The decree of dismissal did mit, of itself, prove that the complainant owed the
respondent any thing. It only proved that the respondent was not indebted to the
complainant:
Nor is this defct in the declaration cured by verdict. ,It cannot be,presumed that.
evidence was givenupon the trial to show that some decree had adjusted the
amount due, as claimed .inthe declaration, because this would be presuming
against the record, which recites the substance of the decree. A total omission to
state any cause ofaction is a defect which a verdict will not cure.
The averment of the virtute cujus is insufficient either as matter of law or tact; -as
law, because no such legal consequence could follow from the premises, and as
fact, because the averment Was in contradiction to the record itself.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit

Court of the United States for the District of Qh'io.

There was no bill of exceptions in the case, but the whole
record was brought up, upon the allegation of a fatal defect in
it, because no cause of action was shown by the plaintiff below
in his declaration.
Hobson, a citizen of Alabama, brought an action of covenant
.against McDonald, as the administrator of McArthur. As the.
whole case depended upon -a very nice point of pleading, the
Repoirter has thought it proper to insert the whole of the dec-laration, "which was as follows :
"William McDonald, administrator of all and singular thegoods, &c., of Duncan McArthur, deceased, (which said William is, and the said Duncan was,'at the time of his'death, a'
citizen and resident of the State of Ohio,) was summoned to
answer unto Matthew Hobson, a citizen and resident of theState of Alabama, in the said United-States of America,.of a.
plea of covenant broken; and thereupon the said Matthew, by'
Win. Key Bond and H. Stanbery, his attorneys, complains:for that whereas, heretofore, to wit, on the 25th day of Septem-ber, A.- D. 1830, at Chillicothe, in the said district of Ohio, by
a certain article of agreement, made and executed, as well by
the said Matthew as by the said Duncan, and sealed with theirseals respectively, which said article being on #le in this court,
63
voL. vII.

746

SUPREME, COURT.
McDomald v. Hobson.

as an exhibit' in the. case in chancery hereinafter rhentioned the
said plaintiff is unable to make profert thereof, it was, among
other things, witnessed: That 'whereas,. on the 10th day of November, in the year of our Lord 1810, a contract whs entered into
by and between John Hobson and Matthew Hobson, (the said
plaintiff,) of the one part, and Duncan McArthur, (the said defendant's intestdte,) of the other part, providing for the withdrawal of certain entries of land-warrants, and the relocation of the
same, as by reference to .said contract will appear, since which.
time the said John Hobson had transferred his interest in said
contract to the said Duncan McArthur; and whereas, on the 26th
of May, 1830, the Congress of the United States passed and
enacted a certain stattite, in virtue of which it became competent for the parties to the' said last-mentioned: contract, "as'holders and owners of the reentries made under said last-mentioned
contract, to relinquish the same to the United States, and
receive therefor the amount at 'which the lands included'in said
entries were valued by an inquest appbinted by the United
States, with interest, as by the .said statute would appear. And
,whereas the said Matthew and Dtmcan were each willing to
make such relinquishment to the United States, and avail themselves of the benefits of the said act of Congress, but- had disagreed about their respective rights under said last-mentioned
contract; in consequence of which said disagreement the said
'Duncan McArthur had then recently instituted a certain suit in
chancery in-the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio, in and for
the county of Ross,.in said State; and, among other 'things,.
'had obtained an ipjunction. in said cause, restraining the said
Matthew Hobson from receiving any money under the said act
of Congress, until the matters could be inquired into, as by
reference to said suit would fully appear. And whereas, -(as is
further recited by said article of agreement first herein mentioned,) the said parties, to wit, the said Matthew and. Duncan,
were then mutually willing and anxious that the said money,
so appropriated by the said act of Congress, or such part of it
as should await the determination of said suit, should not remain' inactive, and did therefore wish to put the whole matter
in such state as would make the fune available and profitable,
pending the same suit, but without in any manner aifecting, or
being held, or interpreted as affecting, their .said'controversy ;
in order to accomplish which it had then been determined and
arranged, that the said Matthew should assign and transfer to
the said Duncan all -the interest of the said Matthew of, in, and
unto the said entries and warrants in such way as would enable
the said Duncan to receive from the United States the moneys
aforesaid,.out of which said money the said Duncan should at

JANUARY ThRM, 1849.

747.

McDonald v. Hobson.

once pay to the said Matthew the sum of eleven thousand fi.e
hundred dollars, and retain the balance of the same in his, the
said Duncan's, possession; and the said Duncan, in and by the
said- article of agreement first herein mentioned, did covenant,
to and with the said Matthew, .that if, in the said suit so instituted as aforesaid, it should be held, adjudged, decreed, or determined, that the said' Matthew, his heirs or assigns, executors
or administrators, "wera, or should be, entitled to any greater
portion of said iiioney, directly or indirectly, than the said sum
of eleven thousand five hundred dollars, then, and in such case,
he, the said Duncan, his heirs, executors, or administrators,
should and would pay to the said Matthew, his heirs executors,
administrators, or assigns, at the Bank of Ohillicothe, any such
excess over and above said sum, together with interest on Such
excess, from the day of the date of said article of. agreement,
which said covenant last aforesaid, it was. provided by said
article of agreement, should be held to embrace any judgment,
order, or decree, which might produce the said result, whether
made and rendered in said suit in chancery, or in any other
suit, or before any other tribunal, founded on the same subjectmatter or contract; and in and by said first-mentioned article
of agreement, it was further witnessed, that the said Matthew
Hobson did thereby covenant to and with the said Duncan McArthur, that in case it should be-determined, held, ordered, adjudged, or decreed in said chancery suit, or before any other
tribunal finally decided in a suit founded on the same subjectmatter, that he, the said Matthe' Hobson, was entitled to a
/ less sum than the aforesaid sum of eleven thousand five hundred dollars, then,' and in such. case, he, the said Matthew Hobson, his heirs, executors, and administrators, should and would
refund and pay to the said Duncan McArthur, his heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns, at the Bank of Chillicothe,
the said "amount so received by him beyond what he was entitled to, with interest thereon from the said date of said article
of agreement.
"Thesaid plaintiff further says, that, in performance of his
covenant in that behalf in said article of agreement mentioned,
he did, afterwards, to wit, on the said 25th day of September,
A. D. 1830, at Chillicothe aforesaid, assign and transfer to the
said Duncan McArthur all the interest of him, the said Matthew, of, in, and unto the- said entries and warrants; which
said assignment and transfer was then and there accepted and
received by the said Duncan in discharge of the said covenant
of the plaintiff in that behalf so made as aforesaid. In virtue
of which said assignment and transfer, the said Duncan, afterwards, to wit, on the same day and year last aforesaid, at Chil-.

SUPREME COURT.
McDonald v. Hobson.

licothe aforesaid, did receive from the United States the moneys
so appropriated, amounting, in the whole, to a large sum of.
money, to .wit, .the sum of fifty-seven thousand six hundred
and eight dollars.
"And the said plaintiff further-says, that such proceedings
were afterwards had in the said suit in ehancery, referred to in
said before-recited article of agreement, that afterwards, to wit,
at the December term, A., D. 1831, of said Ciicuit Court for the
Seventh Circuit and District of Ohio, the said suit in chancery
was, on the pu;tition of said Matthew Hobson, on the ground
of his yesidence and citizenship in the State of Alabama aforesaid, removed to and docketed in the said Circuit Court; and
such further proceedings were afterwards had in said suit, that
the same was finally heard and decided before the Supreme
Court of the United States at Washington, (to which- said
court the same had been taken by appeal fromh the'deree of said
Circuit Court,) at the Jaiuary term thereof, A. D. 1842; and such
decree was, by the said Supreme Court of the United States,
then and there rendered, that it was adjudged and ordered, that
the said Matthew Hobson should recover against the complainants in said suit, viz. Allen C. McArthur, James D. Mc-Arthur, Efe Coorrs, Mary Trimble, Eliza Anderson, Frances
Walker, and John Kercheval, heirs at law of said Duncan McArthur, (he, the said Duncan, having deceased during the pen.dency of said suit, and the said last-mentioned, complainants
having been made parties thereto in his place and stead,) the
sum of one hundred and sixty-six dollars and eighty-three cents,
for his costs therein expended, and that he have execution therefor; and further, that the said. cause should be, and the same
thereby was, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to the said last-mentioned court to dismiss the bill without
prejudice.
"'And afterwards, to wit, at the July term, A. D. 1843, of the
said Circuit Court, to which the mandate of the said Supreme
Court had been duly sent for execution of the said last-mentioned decree, -the said bill was, by the order of said Circuit
Court, in conformity with said mandate, dismissed without
prejudice; all which will more fully and at large appear by
reference to the record and proceedings of said suit in chancery,
and the said. mandate, and several orders and decrees therein,
now in said court remaining. ,
"And the said plaintiff further avers, and in fact says, that, in
virtue of the decree aforesaid, he is well entitled to have and
demand of and frqm the said defendant, as administrator as
aforesaid, a greater portion of the said moneys, so received by
the said Duican McArthur as aforesaid,, than the said sum of

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

749

MeDonald v. Hobson.

eleven thousand five hundied dollars, (which last-mentioned
sum the plaintiff admft he received from said Duncan at and
after the execution of said article of agreement,) to wit, the
sum of three thousand two hundred and one dollars, with 411terest thereon from the said 25th of S'eptember, A. D. 1830.
Of all which premises the said defendant, afterwards, to wit,
on the 10th day of July,. A. D. 1843, at Cincinnati- in the Dis-;
trict of Ohio aforesaid, had due notice; yet neither the said
Duncan, whilst in life, nor the said defendant, as administrator
as aforesaid, since the decease of said Duncan, has at any time,
though thereto requested, paid.to said plaintiff the said lastmentioned sum of money, at the Bank of Chillicothe or elsewhere, or any par thereof, but the same to do -have hitherto
refused, and the same, with the accruing interest, still remains
wholly due and. unpaid. Wherefore the said -Plaintiff saitlih,
that neither the said Duncan nor the said defendant, his administrator as aforesaid, hath.kept the said covenant in that behalf,
but the samp. is broken, to the damage of the said plaintiff -of
ten thousand d6llars ; and therefore he brings suit, &c.
"BoNi & H. SuAsrmy, Attorneys for Plainif.'
The defendant: demurred to this declaration, but' his demur.s
rer was overruled.
At December term, 1843, the defendant craved oyer of the
agreement, and pleaded non est factum and nul tiel recrc
The plaintiff joined issue upon both pleas.
The case was submitted to the -court upon both issues,
neither party requiring a jury. The* court decided in -f'avor
of the plaintiff upon both pleas, and assessed the damages at
$5,833.30, with costs.
The defendant, McDonald, sued out a writ of error and assigned the following causes: 1st, That the declaration aforesaid, and the matters thbrein
containe.d, are not sufficient in law to maintain the. said action.
2d. That said judgment was given in favor of the said plaintiff, when, by the laws of'the land, it ought to have been'given
for'the defendant.
3d. It does nbt appear, from the re~ord, that there was any
cause of action in favor of the said plaintiff against the said
defendant, at the commencement of this suit; but, on the contrary, it does appear, from the record, that there was no cause
of action.
Upon this writ of error, the cause came up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Vinton, for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Stanbery, for the defendant in error.
63 *

750

SUPREME COURT.
'McDonald v. Hobson.

Mr. Vinton made the following points 1st. Under the contract on which' the suit was broughit by
Hobson, it was a condition precedent to his right to the money
claimed, that he should obtain a decree in the suit mentioned
in that contract establishing his right to it.
Such being the character of the contract, the declaration
must aver the fulfilment of this condition precedent. 1 Chit.
351-401.
Till such condition precedent is performed, no action accrues
on the contract. I Chit. 353; Dodg. 683.
Every material fact which constitutes the ground of the
plaintiff's action must be alleged in the declaration, and no
proof at the trial can make good a declaration which contains no ground of action. Buxendon'v. Sharp, 2 Salk.. 662;
Drownd v. Stimpson, 2 Mass. -444; Rushton v. Aspinwall,
Doug. 683; Avery v: Hoole, Cowper, 825; 1 T. R. 145.
.And after verdict nothing is to be presumed but what is expressly stated in the declaration, and is necessarily implied from
those facts which are staied. Spieres v. Parker, 1 T. R. 141.
The averment in the declaration, that, by virtue of the decree
set forth by plaintiff below, he was well entitled to the money
.he sued for, is an inference of law deduced from the facts
averred, and as such not traversable. A traverse must be
taken on matter of fact, not on matter of law. 1 Chit. 645;
1 Saund. 23, note 5; 11 Price, 343; 3 Wils. 234; 1 Moore &
Payne, 803.
-The only exception to the rule, that the virtute cujus, pretextu, or per quod, are not traversable, is when they are compounded of law and fact,. which are connected together. Then
a traverse may be taken for the purpose of trying the fapt which
is connected with the law. 1 Chit. 646; Beale v. Simpson,
1 Ld. Raym. 413; Trustees of Rochester v. Symonds. 7 Wendell, 396'; 2 Blackf. 776; 2 Young & Jervis, 304; 1 Saund. 23,
Pote 5 11 Price, 343; 3 Wils. 234.
Mr. tanbery, for defendant in error.
There ars three causes of demurrer stated specially:
1. That plaintiff has not shown any cause of action against
McArthur, or his administrator.
2. That he has shown no breach of the covenant.
3. That there is nothing to show the plaintiff entitled to demand the said sum of $ 3,201, and interest.
no
The three grounds of demurrer are in effect one, -that
cause of action is shown; and though called, or intended for, a
special demurrer, is in truth a general demurrer, for it relies on
matter of substance, not of form.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

751

McDonald v. Hobson.

We suppose thq point intended to be made is, that we have
not averred or shown how the final decree, which upon its face
is simply a decree of dismissal, made the defendant liable to the
payment of the $ 3,201.
Very clearly, the iiecree is not for any money; and if our
action was upon that alone, we should show no case. It does
not, per se, give us any action for any money. but our action
is not founded on the decree, but on a covenant anterior to it.
In the sealed instrument containing that covenant, it is acknowledged, in such form as to estop any proof tb the contrary,
that certain lands belonging to this'plaintiff and McArthur were
to be paid for by the United States; that a controversy.existed
as to their relative rights to the land, which had led 'McArthur
to commence a suit in chancery to enjoin: the payment of .the
money by the United States; that both parties were anxious
to make the fund available, and therefore they temporarily divide the fund, the plaintiff taking $11,500, Mc ,rthur'all the
residue. Upon this state of things the covenant is made; providing that the parties shall stand, as tothe money, in statu quo,
until the determination of the suit; and that if, directly or indirectly, by any decree to be made in such suit, it should be
held that the $11,500 was less than Hobson's portion of the
whole sum, or if such a result should in any way flow from
any decree, then McArthur covenants to pay any excess that
Hobson might be entitled to.
Now it is perfectly clear that the parties did not contemplate
that the decree itself should be a decree for the money in dispute. A covenant to pay such a decree would be useless, for
the decree itself would be better than the covenant to pay it.
Besides, the express language is, that the covenant is to take.
effect upon any decree, which, directly or indirectly, should or
might produce a result in favor of the pllaintiff's right to a
greater portion of the money than the $11,500.
In setting forth a decree, then, which is not a decree for the
money, we show the sort of decree which is contemplated by
the covenant; but yet not such a decree as, without further
averment, would make a case against McArthur.
We do not stop, however, by showing the decree, but by
.positive averment state, that in virtue of it Hobson became
entitled, under the covenant, to the sum stated beyond the
$11,500. In effect, following the language of the coirenant,
we aver that this was a decree which produced that result.
Must we show, by averment, how a decree of dismissal produced the result alleged? That'i ; the only questioh that can
be made. In other words, must we introduce all our evidence
into our declaration? Unquestionably we must, on the trial,

752

SUPREME COURT.
I cDonald v. Hobson.

prove the allegation, that the liability to pay mor6 than the
$11,500 resulted from the covenant and the decree. We admit
that, but cannot admit that we must spread all the evidence out
in the declaration.
There are instances in which the mere averment of the fact
is not good,- without shbwing the manner; as where there. is
a covenant to pay money on' the release of all actions.- An
averment that the plaintiff executed g release will not do, for
it must' appear how the release was made,.i. e. by an instrument under seal, that the court may judge of its sufficiency.
In this case that doctrine does not apply.. The fact of liability to pay is not dependent upon a technical thing that .can
only be done in one way, and which must always be alleged
to have been done in that way.
Simply, the case is em action for so much money received .by
McArthur to Hobson's use; and the only reason why we might
not recover in indebitatus assuvipsitis, that the covenant under
seal drives us to this action of the .higher nature.
It well alipears that a certain sum of money arising out. of
joint prdperty of Hobson and McArthur -was in the treasury
of the United States. The parties differ in the division; Mc-.
Arthur files a bill to enjoin it in the treasury; they then agree
that Hobson shall take $11,500, and McArthur the residue,
amdunting to $46,108, and to stand upon that division until
the end of the suit pending. The plaintiff avers the suit to be
ended, and that he is entitled to $3,201 of the moneys so received by McArthur beyond the amount he has -received-; and
all this is admitted by the demurrer.
I I confess I am not able to see why this is'not a good declardtion.
But the case does not now stand upon the demurrer 1to the
declaration, but' upon a writ of error after a finding or verdict
for Hobson, and a judgment consequent on such verdict.
It appeaxs that, at the December term, 1843, the court below
overruled the demurrer, and the defendant then took leave to
plead, and filed two pleas, -non estfactum and nul tiel record.
Issue being joined on these pleas, the trial thereof was submitted
.to the court at the July, term, 1844, and there was a finding on
both pleas for Hobson, an assessment of damages, and judgment.
If there were any 'objection that might h-ave. been sustained
to the declaration in consequence of any supposed defective
.statement of .the plaintiffs right to recover the .$ 3,201, with
interest front .September 25, -1830, it. is now, after verdict,, to
be intended that such defect was supplied in the proof. The
rule on this subject is nowhere better laid down than by Lbrd
Mansfield, in Rushton v. Aspinwall, Doug. 679:.-

JANUARY TERM, .1849.

753

McDonald. v. Hobsopi.
." But on looking into the cases, we find.the rule to be, that
where the plaintiff has stated his title or ground of action defectively or inaccurately, -because) to entitle him to recover,
all circumstances necessary in form or substance to complete
the title so imperfectly stated must be proved at the trial, -it
is a fair presumption, after verdict, that they were proved; but
that, where the plaintiff totally omits to state his title or cause
of action, it need not be proved at the trial, and therefore there
is no room for presumption."
In our declaraion we set out the covenant with all necessary
strictness, and aver that, in virtue of the decree, McArthur became bouind" to pay the money demanded. This averment,
"in virtue of said decree,'I- was traversable.
Where the virtute cujus contains only matter of -law, it is
not traversable; otherwise, where it is mixed with fact. Beal V.
Simpson, 1 Ld. Raym. 408; Trustees of Rochester v. Symonds,
7 Wend. 392.
Now if the covenant had been limited to a decree which,
per se, was to be a decree for the mqney, and had been to pay
so much money as should be so decreed, the decree alone would
fix the liability without reference to any fact aliunde. Such
is not the covenant, nor such the decree contemplated by the
parties.
The decree may be any decree which, .directly or. indirectly,
that is in itself, or in reference to matter dehors,.may produce
the result.
.When, therefore, we allege. a decree which does not per se
give us thb money, or establish our right to it, and aver that, in
virtue of. it, we became, under the covenant, well entitled to a
specific sum, the averment is clearly mixed with matter of fact,
and is traversable, and must be proved at. the trial, unless admitted by the pleadings.

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ -of error to the' Circuit Court. of the United
States, held in and for the District of Ohio by the district judge.
The questions presented arise upon the record of judgment,
no bill of exceptions having been taken to the rulings of the
court at the trial. Itis insisted that" thie declaration is fatally
defective, and the judgment for that reason erroneous.
The action is covenant, brought by Matthew Hobson against
William McDonald, as administrator of Duncan McArthur, deceased.
The declaration recites, that, on the 10th of November, 1810,
a contract was entered into between the said Matthew and
Duncan, providing' for the withdrawal of certain entries.of land-

754

SUPR:EME

COURT.

McDonald'v. Hobson.
warrants and relocation of the same; that on the 26th of May,
1830, Congress passed an act which enabled the parties, as
holders and owners of these warrants, to relinquish the same,
and receive their value in money; that the said Hobson and
McArthur were each willing to make such relinquishment, and
to avail themselves of the provisions of the act, but that 'they
had disagreed'as to their respective rights under the contract of
1810; in consequence of which disagreement,, McArthur -had
commenced a suit in chancery in the State of Ohio against
Hobson, and had obtained an injunction restraining him from
receiving any of the moneys, under the act of Congress, until
the matters in dispute should be settled; that both parties had.
then become anxious that the money, or such part of it'as must
otherwise await the determination of the suit, should not remain useless, and therefore desired to put their differences on
such a footing as would make the fund available and profitable
during the litigation, and, at the same time, without in any
manner affecting the suit; that, in order to accomplish this, it
had been agreed that Hobson snould assign and transfer to
McArthur all his interest in the said warrants, so as Lo enable
him to receive the money from the government, out ,)f which
he should, at once, -pay over to Hobson the sum- of $11,506,
and retain the balance; and the said McArthur did then and
there covenant .to and with the said Hobson, that if it shpuld be
adjudged and-determined in the suit in chancery that the latter
was entitled to a greater portion'of the money than the $X1,500,
directly or indirectly, then and in such case McArthur would pay
to him such further amount, with ifiterest, at the Bank of Chillicothe. It was., at the same time, declared, that the covenant
should be held to embrace any judgment or decree that might
produce this result, whether rendered in the suit in chancery or
in any other.suit, or before' any other tribunal, founded! on the'
same subject-matter. And the said Hobson did also then aid
there covenanf to and with McArthur, that in case it should be
adjudged and determined in the suit in chancery,'or in any other
*tribunal? that he was entitled to a less sum than the $11,500,
then and in such cas6 he would refund to McArthur the excess so received, with interest, at-the Bank'of Chillicothe.
The declaration, then, after setting out the transfer of the
interest of Hobson in the land-warrants to McArthur, and also
the receipt of the sum of $ 57,608 from the governmen:t by the
latter, averred, that such proceedings were had in the suit in
chancery, that it was removed into the' Circuit Court of the
United States; and that such further proceedings -were there had,
that it was finally heard-and decided in the Supre.me Court of
the United States, at Washington, at the January term, 1842, to

JANUARY TERM, .1849.

755

McDonald v. Hobson,

which the same had been carried by appeal, and such decree
was then and there rendered, as adjudged and ordered, that
Hobson recover against McArthur $166.83 for his costs, and
that the cause be remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions
to dismiss the bill without prejudice, -all whiclh was afterwards done at the. following July term 'of the Circuit Court
accordingly.
The plaintiff then avers, that, in virtue of the decree aforesaid, he is well entitled to have and demand of and from the
defendant, as administrator as aforesaid, a greater portion of the
said money§, so received by McArthur, than the sum-of $11,500,
to wit, thd sum of $ 3,201, with interest from the 25th of September, 1830, the date of the articles of agreement, - of all
which the defendant had notice.
The usual breach js then set out, concluding to the*damage
of the plaintiff of $10,000.
The defendant put, in a demurrer to the declaration, which
was afterwards overruled by the court. He then' craved oyer
of the articles of agreement; and, after setting them out in hcsc
verba, plead, 1st, non estfactum, and 2d, as to the decree,
nul tiel record. Upon which issues were joined, and -werefound
for the plaintiff, and the damages assessed at the sum of
$5,833.30.
The question presented for our decision is as to the sufficiency of the- declaration after verdict, and this depends upon
the construction to be given to-the articles of agreement upon
which the action is founded, and as set forth in the pleadings.'
The construction given by one pleader is, that the decree or
order on the suit in chancery mentioned in the agreement, and
upon which the right to.any portion of the.fund in dispute, be.yond the $11,500 already received is made to depend, need not
determine either the right to any excess beyond that sum, or,
if aiiy, the amount of it;.but, on the contrary, either or both
may be established by evidence independently of the proceed-,
ings in that or any other suit, and that the decree is material
only as showing the suit to be at -an end. Hence, after setting
out the decree by which it appears that the bill of complaint
had been dismisse, with costs, the pleader proceeds to aver,
that, in virtue of the decree, the said plaintiff is well entitled to
have and demand of and from the defendant a greater portion
of the said moneys, so received by the said McArthur, than the
sum of $11,500, to wit, the sum of $ 3,201, with interest.
This, it is said, is an averment of a matter of fact, and not
of a conclusion of law; and that, after verdict, the 'court must
presume that evidence.was given on the trial to establish the
right of the plaintiff to the amount recovered over and above

756'

SUPREME COURT.
McDonald'v. Hobson."

the sum already received, and that, upon this ground, the judgment may well be sustained.
This is the view of the case, as set forth in the declaration;
and which was sought tQ be sustained in the argument; and,
conceding it to present the true construction of the articles of
agreement, -though
the averment is certainly informal:tnd
illogical in the mode of stating it, as it is difficult to perceive
how the right to the sum of money claimed, or to any sum,
'can result to the plaintiff, even as a matter of 'fact, in virtue of
a decree dismissing a bill in' chancery against him, - yet,
with the usual intendments of the' law in support of a judgment after verdictL it might, -perhaps, be deemed sufficient. The a1ppellate co urt would. presume that evidence had bden required and given, under the averment, at "thetrial, to support
the claim to the amount recovered. 1 Saund. 228, n. 1; 1
Chit..P1. 589; 1 Maule & Selw. 234; Doug. 68; 7 Wend. 396.
But the court is of opinion, that the pleader, has mistaken
altogether the 'true- constrlction of the agreement in.the particular mentioned, and has placed the right of action upon
ground not warraited by any of-the stipulations of .the parties.
This will be apparent, on recurring for a m6ment to' the
agreement as set-forth in the pleadings.
The recitals show, that a dispute 'had arisen in respect to
the division of a large sum of money coming from the government, in which the parties were jointly interested, and that a
suit had been commenced by McArthur against Hobson, in
chancery, enjoining him from receiving any part of it, until
their rights had -been judicially determined. -The effect of
this proceeding was to tie up the fund in chancery, pending
the litigation, and until the court could make a proper distribution., It was to remedy this inconvenience, and to enable
the pafties to possess.themselves of the fimd, pending the controversy, that the agreement in question was entered into; And
which was, in substance, as follows. McArthur was toxeceive
the'whole of the money from the government, and at once
pay'over to Hobson $11,500, retaining. in his possession' the
residue;- and if, in the suit then pending,-it should be determined, drectly or indirectly, that Hobson was entitled
fo a larger amount for his share, then McArthur would pay
such additional sum; with interest, at the 'Bank of Chillicothe ;
and, on the other hand, if it should 'be determined that
Hobson's portion of the fund was less than the sum already
received, he would refund the excess, with interest, to McArthur, at the same place.
The object of the parties was to procure the money from the
govemment, where it was lying idle,' and, at the same time,.to

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

757

McDonald v. Hobson.

make a provisional distribution, without in any way interfering with the suit in chancery. -That was:to be carried on. for
the purpose for which it was originally commenced; but as a
provisional division had taken place, it became necessary to
provide for a special decree, having reference to the changed
situation of the .fund, and, as the suit had become an amicable
one, to provide, also, for the payment of any sum that might
be found due fibm either party. Hence the stipulation, that
the decree should be made upon the basis of this provisional
distribution, and that the parties should pay over at once any
balance that Yiight be found due, without further proceedings.
The strongest proof exists, in the agreement itself, that the
adrties did not intend to interfere with the settlement of their
differences by the suit in chancery, or ty some other suit to
be instituted. for that purpose-; for the last article provides3.
that this contract shall not be used by either party in the suit
pending, or in any other suit, or in any other court, or in any
proceeding under'the contract of 1810, as affecting or inany way.
changing the rights of either in the matters in dispute; but.
that the suit .in chancery, or any suit which either might
think proper to-bring, should b6 conducted; in all respects, as
though this cpntract had not been entered into..
We thi.rik, therefore, it is clear, the parties intended that'
their respective rights to the common.fund in question should
be settled and fixed by the chancery suit then pending, or by
some other.legal proceeding that might be instituted for the
purpose; and that, when so settled, they would conform the
provisional distribution already made to the decision, by. laying over at once 'the amount adjudged to be -due; for wehave seen, 'that, instead of 'interfering with the suit which had
been alreedy commenced, great pains are taken, to guard,
against any such consequence,'and, as if apprehensive that their'
rights might not be definitively settled by that suit, provision.
is made for the institution of any other, by -either party, before
the same or any other tribunal having cognizance of thecase.
In a word, the whole amount of the agreement is, to provid6, first, for a provisional distribution of the fund, o that
the money might be used pending the litigation; secoiidly,
for a judicial determination of the controversy in respect to it,
in some court of law 'or equity; and, thirdly, for the payment
of any balance that might b6 found due from either, at the
•Bank of Chillicothe. 2This being, in our7:4ndgment, the legal effect of the.agreement, it is manifest that-the pleader .has Kfailed to comprehend.
-it, *andhas therefore filed ta set out any cause of action. in.
VOL. VU,
64

758

SUPREMI

COURT.

McDonald v. Hobson.

the declaration. There is a total omission of any averment of
the fact upon which the right of the plaintiff to any portion
of the fund beyond the $11500 is made to depend, namely
a judgment, order, or decree awarding to him the amount.
There is not only an omission of any such averment, but. the
contrary appears upon the face of the declaration, as the, decree
in the chancery suit is set out, and its contents particularly
described.
It is a decree simply dismissing the bill of complaint, with
costs. It may show that the defendant (now plaintiff) had
not received more than his share of the money in the division,
otherwise the bill would not'have been dismissed; but not"
that the defendant was entitled to more, unless the dismissal
of a bill is evidence that something is due from the complainant to the defendant.
Neither can we presume, e -en after verdict, that evidence
was-given at the trial, by whi: h it was made to appear that
the decree- did determine th, the amount which has been
recovbred in this su t was due from McArthur to the plaintiff;
for this would be a presumption against the face of the record. That shows what decree was rendered, and any one of
a different import would have been inadmissible under the
pleadings.
Besides,' there should have been an averment, not only
that a decree was rendered in 'the suit in chancery, but that
the sum claimed had been- therein adjudged to the plaintiff.
This is made the foundation of the right to the money, and,
of course, of the action, by the agreement; and the omission is
fatal to the judgment.
It is the case- of a total omission- to state any title or'
cause of action in the declaration, -a defect -which the verdict
will not cure, either at common law or by statute. Doug. 683;
Cowp. 826; 1:Johns. 453; 2 1b. 557'; 17" ib. 439.
The.averment, that, in virtue of the decree, the plaintiff was
well entitled to recover, &c., is insufficient, either as matter of
law or of fact. As matter of law, it was gien up in the ar- gument, as no such legal consequence could follow from the
premises stated; and, as matter of fact, the averment is in contradiction to the record itself. That shows, that the decree
determined nothing in favor of the plaintiff; it dismissed the
bill against him with costs, and nothing more.
Some weight was given,'in the argument, to the peculiar
phraseology of the covenant, on the part of McArthur, wherein
it is provided, that, if it should be determined in the chancery
suit, that the plaintiff was entitled to any greater portion of
the money, directly or .indirectly, than the $11,500, then, and

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

759

McDonald v. Hobson.

in that case, he would pay, &e. The object of using the words,
directly or indirectly, in the connection found, is, perhaps, at
best, but matter of conjecture. -But as the chancery suit was
against Hobson, for the purpos6 of asserting claims and demands agaiiistf him by the complainant, it was, according to
the rules of chancery, an inappropriate proceeding for -the
purpose of asserting claims -on the part of the defendant
against the complainar., These would have required a crossbill But as the suit had- become. an amicable one, it- *as
provided that the claims -of both parties might be settled
therein, notwithstandingj thie irregularity of the proceeding,
and hence -the'use of the peculiar phraseology referred to.
This explanation receives some confirmation from the
covenant, on the part of. Hobson, with McArthur. These
words are there omitted. The suit was appropriate to. enforce
any claim against him.
It was said, also, and some stress laid upon the remark, that
the agreement would not have provided for the v luntary payment of the balance that might be due from .ne to the other,'
if it had contemplated'ai adjustment of the particular amount
by the suit in chancery, as, in that event, the pdyment -could
be enforced by the decree.
'But we think this consideration leads to aid opposite conclusion. How could the payment be made at the bank, as provided, unless the amount in dispute was first adjusted.
There was no dispute about the payment, except as respected the ambunt. That being determined, each party *aS
ready to satisfy it. Besides, it. is difficult to believe, that, in
-providing so specially for the settlement of the controversy
by judicial proceedings, the 'parties had in -view simply the
determination of the question whether the one or the other
had received more of the fund than his share, ivithout regard.
to the -amount. Such a decision would have been idle, as it
could lead to n practical result in 'the settlement of their
differences.
Upon the whole, for the reasons stated, -we think the judgment below*erroneous; and should be reversed, and the cause
remanded to the court below for further proceedings.
Mr. -Justice WAYNE, being indisposed, did not sit in-this
cause.
.Mr. Justice WOODBURY dissented.
Order.
heard on the transcript of the
be
to
-on
came
cause
This
record from the Circuit Court of the United States- for the:.

760

-SUPREME COURT.
Massingill'et al., v. Downs.

District of Ohio, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now fiere ordered and adjudged by this
coutt, that the judgment of the said Circiit Court in his cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed,, with costs, and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit
Court, for further proceedings to be had .therein, in conformity
to the opinion of this court.

W. AND

H. MAsNGL,

PLMNTIFFS, 'v.

A. C. DowNs; Cr. w .•-

Where ajudgment was obtained in the Circuit ,Court'of the United States for the
District of Mississippi in 1839, and in 1841 the State of Mississippi passed a
law, requiring judgments to be recorded in a particular way, in drder to make
them alien upon'prperty, this statute did not abrogate the lien which Md been
acquired under the judgment of 1839, although the, itter had not been recorded
in the manner require&by t4e statute.

This case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States ko, the Southern District of Mississippi, upon a certificate of division in opinion between the judges thereof.The facts are fully set forth in the opinion of the court, as
,delivered by Mr. Justice McLean, to which the reader is
referred.
It was argued by 'Mr. Sargent and Mr; Bell,'for the plain-'
tiff, and Mr. Lawrence' and Mr. Badger, for- Downs, the
claimant,
Mr. Sargent and Mr. Bell 'made the following points:.1. When this judgment was entered, it became a lien on allthe .personal and real property of Chewning, in Mississippi.Hutch. Miss. Code, 881, 282. -Brown v. Clarke, 4 How. 12;
4 Stat. at Large, 184; ib. 278; Rankin v. Scott, 12 Wheat., 177;
United States v. Morrison, 4 Peters, 124; Burton v. Smith
et al., 14 Fe--ers, 464' Tayloe et al. v. Thompson-, 5 Peters,
358.
.2. The rules' of court,- so -far as they bie .more than declaratory of the effect of the United States process act .of1828,
adopt the State _practice of November 25, 1839; they adopt
nothing prospectively.
3. The' State act of 1841 .does not purport to. operate on
federal *judgments. No State statute can operate yproprio vigore
to affect directly, or indirectly a judgment of the federal courts.
Wayman V. Southard, 10 Whet. 1; Bank of the United
States v. Halstead, ib. 51.

