172

SUPREME COURT.
Erwin . Lowry.

-

take cognizance of the subject-matter,-whose peculiar province
and duty it was to iake cognizance of it. The exception, at
the utmost, resolves itself into matter of form, which the parties
were competent to waive, and which they did waive; for it is
expressly stated upon the -record, that. the removal of the cause
from the Court of Probate into the District Court was .by the
consent of all concerned. It cannot be pretended that the
forms of pleading may not be dispensed with by suitors; as it
is certain that the benefit of matters both of substance and
form may be lost by mere neglect or omission, where no intention of the renunciation of either is apparent or ever existed.
We must conclude that the District Court had -rightfully jurisdiction of the cause removed into it from the Probate Court;
that its judgment is and must be binding upon the parties to it,
until it shall be annulled or reversed by a competent authority.
The parties to that judgment, the subj6ct-matter thereof, and
embraced within the proceedings .on which it was founded,
being identical with those comprised in the bill in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Ninth Circuit, now under
review, the judgment was well pleaded in bar of the claims set
up by the bill, and the decree of the Circuit Court sustaining
this plea we hold to be correct, and the same is therefore hereby affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court .of the United States for the District
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court, that
the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be and the
same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

JArEs ERwIN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. ALFRED J. LowRy, CuRATOR
or ALEXANDER McNEILL, DECEASED.
Where a petition fur the seizure and sale of the mortgaged property of a deceased person was filed, in the Circuit Court of the United States for Louisiana,
against the executor of that deceased person, which petition* alleged the plaintiff
to be a citizen of Tennessee, and the defendant to be a citizen of Louisiana, and
the proceedings went on to a sale without any objection to the jurisdiction of the
courebeing made by the executor upon the ground of residence of parties, it is
too late for a curator, appointed in the place of the executor, to raise the objection
in a State court against a purchaser at the sale, and attempt to prove tli the
Circuit "Courthad no jurisdiction over the case, because the executor was not a
citizen of Louisiana. Evidence dehors the record cannot be introduced to dis-

prove it
Where a lien existed on property by a special mortgage before.the debtor's death, aid

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

178

Erwin v. Lowry.
the property passed, with the lien attached, into the hands of an executor, and was
in the course of administration in the Probate Court, the Circuit Court of the
United States had jurisdiction, notwithstanding, to proceed against the property,
enforce the creditor's lien, and decree a sale of the property. And such sale was
valid.
The Circuit Court of the United States, having jurisdiction over the parties and subject-matter, and having issued an order of seizure and sale, the presumption must
be, in favor of a purchaser, that the facts which were necessary to be proved in
order to confer jurisdiction were proved. No other court can inquire into those
facts.
Although the marshal did not give the notice required by law to the executor
against whom the petition was filed,
yet, if the executor was served with process
on the spot where the property was situated and where the advertisements were
posted up, was present at the sale and named one of the appraisers, and requested that the land and negroes should be sold' together, he cannot afterwards impeach the sale because formal steps were not strictly complied with. Nor can the
curator who subsequently represented the same estate.
Where the court below ordered that . sum of money should be liaid over by the
pary in whose favor they decided to the losing party, the reception of this money
by the losing party, before the writ of error was suedou; will not be a sufficient
cause for dismissing the writ of error.
THIS case was brought up-from the Supreme Court for the
Western District of Louisiana, by a writ of error issued under
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
In the beginning of the year 1835, Dawson and Nutt were
the owners of some land situated in the parish of Carroll, in the
State of Louisiana, on the waters of the Walnut Bayou, amounting to 640 acres, and also of a number of slaves. On the 8th
of January, 1835, they sold the land and slaves to Alexander
McNeill, of the State of Mississippi, for one hundred and fivethousand dollars, payable in five payments; the first four of
twenty-five thousand dollars each, and the last of five thousand.
McNeill gave a mortgage upon the land and slaves to secure
the last four payments.
Whether notes were given for all these payments, and when
they were to be made, the record did not show. But by an
indorsement upoa the mortgage under date of January 15th,
1838, it appeared that all the payments had been made excep5
the fourth.
About the 28th of May,,1839, Alexander McNeill died, in
Mississippi.
By his will, which contains several legacies of small value,
he bequeathed the mass of his estate to Hector McNeill, also 4
resident and citizen of Mississippi, whom he appointed his testamentary executor. On the 6th of June, 1839, this executor,
stating himself to be a citizen of Coahoma county, in Mississippi, presented a petition to the judge of probates of the parish
of Madison, in which, after stating that his testator had died o9
the date above stated, in Mississippi, and left a will, in which
he was appointed sole executor and principal legatee, an authenticated copy of which was annexed to the petition, he pro-

15 *

174

SUPREME

COURT.

Erwin v. Lowry.

ceeds to say, that two large estates were in the possession of
his testator, situated in this parish.
He says:further, that, by the laws of Mississippi, as executor
of the will, he was bound to present it for probate in Warren
"county in that State, without delay; but as the court would
not sit for some weeks, he could not then have the will proved
and recorded, nor could he then present a duly certified copy
of it to be recorded in the said Probate Court of Madison. H-e
says he is "desirous of taking on himself the succession of his
deceased brother's estate, according to the terms of his last will
and testament, and the laws of the State; he therefore prays
that au inventory of all the property in the parish, belonging to
the estate of said Alexander McNeill, deceased, be taken.)
And he prays the judoe to grant him the succession of the deceased Alexander McNeill, according to the terms of the Will
and the laws of the'State; and that he will grant any other
and whatever order may he necessary to entitle him (Hector)
to the possession and succession of the property left by the deceased. Upon this .petition no order or judgment was given by
the probate judge; but -on the 2d of July following, he proceeded to make an inventory of the property composing Alexander McNeill's succession, which is signed by Hector McNeill,
as executor. The will was probated in Warren county, Mississippi, on the 24th of June, 1839, and a copy of it, and the proceedings in the aforesaid court, recorded in the Probate Court of
Madison on the 1st of July, 1839, one' day before the taking of
the inventory, but no order taken on it, further than to record it.
By the inventory and appraisement, the whole property of.
the deceased in that parish amounted ta $ 245,317.
On the 1st of November, 1839, Hector McNeill presented the
following petition "To the Honorable Richard Charles Downes, Parish Judge in
and for the Parish of Madison, State of Louisiana.
"Hector McNeill, heretofore a resident of Warren county,
State of Mississippi, respectfully represents to your honor, that
he is the owner of large possessions in this parish, consisting
of plantations, negroes, &c., &c.; that he is desirous of acquiring residence, and to be entitled to the privileges, &c., .&c., of
a resident of this parish; that he is aged thirty-one years; that
he is from the State of Mississippi, as aforesaid, and that he desires to pursue planting in this parish, and to reside and make
his permanent domicile and home on the Walnut Bayou, parish
-ofMadison, Louisiana. Wherefore, he prays this notice may
-be duly filed and recorded.
(Signed,)
H. McNEILL.
"Walnut Bayou, La., Nov. Ist, 1839."

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

'115

Erwin v. Lowry.

On the 23d of May, 1840, Andrew Erwin filed the following
petition in the Circuit Court of the United States: "To the Honorable the Judges of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Ninth Circuit of Louisiana.
"The petition of Andrew Erwin, a citizen of the State of
Tennessee, therein residing, respectfully shows : -That Hector McNeill, testamentary executor of Alexander McNeill, a
citizen of the State of Louisiana, residing in the parish of Madison, within the jurisdiction of this honorable court, is justly
indebted to your petitioner in the sum of seventeen thousand
five hundred dollars, besides interest on the promissory notes
hereto annexed for reference and greater certainty, drawn on
the 8th of January, 1835, and payable four years after date,
and duly protested when due for want of payment, a. will
further appear from the protests thereof hereunto annexed
for reference; one of which notes was payable to: the order
of Conway R. Nutt, a citizen of the State of Mississippi, and
by him duly indorsed to your petitioner; and the other to
Henry S. Dawson, also a citizen of the State of Mississippi,
and by him duly indorsed to your petitioner; who avers that
the assignors of said notes could have maintained an action in
.your-.honorable court on'the said notes, against the said Alexder McNeill, previously to the assignment thereof; that on the,
"balance of one of said notes, seven thousand five hundred dollars, interest is due at the rote of ten per cent. per annum, from
,the 11th of January, 1839, until paid; and on the balance of
the other, five thousand dollars, interest is due from the same
date, 11th of January, 1839, until paid, and which, though
amicably requested,. the said Alexander McNeill, as wel- as his
testamentary executor, has neglected topay.
"Your petitioner further shows, that said. notes were given
in purchase of a plantation situated in the parish of Madison
aforesaid, and certain slaves; and for securing the payment
thereof, the said plantation and slaves were duly mortgaged, as
will further appear from a certified copy thereof, hereto annexed
to make part and parcel of this present petition, and to which,
for greater certainty, your petitioner refers ; and thence your
petitioner is entitled to an order 'of seizure and sale for the
payment of the balance aforesaid of seventeen thousand five
hundred dollars, with the interest from the 11th of January,
1839, of ten per cent. on the sum of seven thousand five
hundred dollars, and on ten thousand dollars interest at the
rate of five per cent. until paid, and the costs of the protests
of said notes, ten dollars and fifty cents. Wherefore your
petitioner prays that an order of seizure and sale may issue

SUPREME COURT.
Erwin v. Lowry.

against the said plantation, and the negroes mentioned and described in the act of sale and mortgage aforesaid, hereunto annexed, to pay and -satisfy said. sum of seventeen thousand five
hundred dollars, with interest as aforesaid, from the 11th of
January, 1839, until paid, with $ 10.50 costs of protest, and the
costs of suit. And your petitioner prays for all such other and
further relief as the nature of. the case may require, and to
equity and justice may appertain; and as'in duty bound will
ever pray your petitioner. '(Seventeen thousand and five hundred dollars, besides interest and costs, claimed.)
(Signed,)
ALFRED HENNEN,
Attorney for Petitioner."
On the day of the filing of the petition, the following order
wbs issued, viz. Inasmuch as the mortgage within mentioned imports a
confession of judgment, let an order of seizure and sale issue
for the sale of the property mortgaged, if the sum within
claimed is not paid after legal notice.
(Signed,)
P. K. LAWRENCE, U. S. Judge.
"New Orleans, 23d May, 1840."
Afterwards, to wit, on the 23d of May, 1840, the following
writ of seizure and sale *ras issued rUnited States of America:
"The
President
of
the
UnitedorStates
to thedeputy,
Marshalgreeting:
of the Eastern District of Louisiana,
his lawful
"You are hereby commanded to seize and sell, after legal
demand, for cash, the following described property, -to wit."
(Then followed a list of the property, namely, land and slaves.)
The return of the maishal was as follows:

-

"Received this order of seizure and sale on the 25th of May,
1840, and on the 29th of*May I delivered the order of-court
and copy of mortgage issued by the clerk of this court to the
defendant; also a copy of a notice of demand, which notice is
herewith retuaned (marked A). On the 1st day of June, Iseized
the lafid and fifty-seven slaves, mentioned in this order ofseizure
and sale, and delivered to said defendant a copy of notice of
said seizure, which is also herewith returned (marked B). On
the 4th day of June, 1840, I affixed copies of an adiertisement
(marked C), and herewith filed, to the door of the court-house,
the door of the parish judge's office, and at other places, in the
parish of Madison and State of Louisiana, in which the said

JANUARY TERM, 1849

17"

Erwin v. Lowry.

property is situated, announcing that the said property would
be offered for sale on the said premises, to the highest bidder
for cash, on Monday, the 6th day of July, 1840, being full thirty days, exclusive of the day on which the advertisements were
posted up, viz. the 4th day of June, 1840, and the day of sale.
On the said 6th day of July, 1840," I repaired to the premises
aforesaid, and after the appraisers, James Brooks and Jesse
Couch, duly qualified citizens of Louisiana, selected by the plaintiff and defendant in this case for that purpose, were duly sworn,
they proceeded to appraise the said land and forty-four of the
negroes in this order of seizure and sale, and the same conveyed
by deed from the marshal to the purchaser, bearing date the 7th
of July, 1840, and of record of this court. Thirtcen of the said
fifty-seven negroes which were seized by me, proving to be others than those named in this process, were not appraised, neither
could the said thirteen be found, as reported by the said appraisers in their re2ort, now filed in the court, and marked'D. The
said land was appraised at $ 13 per acre; the 640 acres at $ 13,
amount $ 8,320. The said forty-four negroes were appraised
separately and in families, and the amount of the whole when
added was $ 15,525, making the aggregate amount for the land
and negroes $ 23,845; After said appraisement was completed,
and between the hours of 12 A. M. and 1 P. M., I offered the said
land and forty-four negroes for sale; after making all the declarations required by law, in relation to the nature and description of the same, and after exhibiting and reading, in an audible voice, a certificate of the recorder of'mortgages of the said
parish of Madison; and after repeatedly crying the said, property, James Erwin, Esq. bid the sum of $ 16,000, which being
the highest and last bid, and more than two thirds of the appraisement thereof, the said land and negroes were adjudged to
him, and on the 7th of July, 1840, were conveyed by deed,
now of record in this court."
On the 7th of July, 1840, the marshal executed a deed of
the above property to James Erwin, reciting the circumstances
attending the public sale.
On the 23d of March, 1841, the Court of Probate in the
parish of Madison, appointed Alfred J. Lowry curator of the
vacant succession of Alexander McNeill.
-On the 16th of August, 1841, Lowry, the curator, filed a
petition in the ninth judicial District Court in and for the
parish of Madison (State, court). It represented that McNeill,
at his death, was the owner of the estate, and that James Erwin had illegally, and by fraud and collusion, taken possession
of it. It then prayed for a restoration of the property, and an
account of the rents and profits.

178

SUPREME COURT
Erwin v. Lowry..

On the 5th of MVay, 1842, Erwin filed his answer, reciting
the sale.
theEvidence
abov6 facts
and been
claiming
titlethe
under
having
taken,
District
Court, at December term, 1842, pronounced a judgment in favor of the petitioner, the curator.
An appeal was taken by Erwin from this judgment to the
Supreme Court of the State, which, in October, 1843, affirmed
the judgment of the court below. A' writ of error, sued out
under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, brought
the case up to this court.

-

It was argued by Mr. Brent and Mr. Badger,for the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Bradley and Mr. Jones, for the defendant
inerror.
The points made by the counsel for the appellant were the
following, viz.: Upon the whole record, it will be contended by the appellant, that the judgment must be reversed.
1. Because the proceedings .of the Circuit Court of the
United States, under which the appellant claims' title, disclose
a proper case for the jurisdiction of that court, and therefore the
regularity or validity of'said proceedings cannot be collaterally
impeached.
2. Because the judgment under which the appellant claims,
even if rendered upon a record defective as -to the averments
proper to give jurisdiction, cannot be thus collaterally impe ched.
3. Because the proceedings under which the appellant derives title were all regular and bona fide; but if they were
otherwise, they canpot be inquired into by the courts of
Louisiana.
4. Because the judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana
was otherwise erroneous and illegal, and more particularly in
decreeing the appellant to be a possessor in bad faith.
The Reporter was necessarily absent during the argument,
and has no notes of it.
Mr. Justice :CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Alfred J. -Lowry sued James Erwin in'
the District Court for
the ninth district of Louisiana, for a tract of land of about six
hundred acres, and forty-four slaves, wh6 were employed in
cultivating the land by growing cotton thereon. The property
was situate in the pdrish of Madison, in that State. The suit
was commenced in 1841, by petition, which alleges that about
July, 1840, one James Eiwin, illegally, and by fraud and col-'
lusion, and without any legal title thereto, took possession.of-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

179

Erwin v. Lowry.

all the above described property, and is still in possession of the
same, has appropriated and wrongfully converted to his own
use all the fruits and revenues of said property, and pretends to
be the owner thereof, and refuses to deliver to the petitioner
the possession. The property was not claimed by Lowry in his
own right, but as curator of the estate of Alexander McNeill.
To this petition Erwin answered, among other things not
within the cognizance of this court, that on the 6th day of July,
1840, he became the pu-.haser of the property at public auction, at a sale made thereof by the marshal of the Vnited
States, wrho sold the same under a judgment, and on a writ of
seizure and sale, issued from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, in a case wherein Andrew Erwin :was plaintiff, and Hector MeNeill, testafentary executor "of Alexander McNeill, deceased, was defendant; and that he paid the sum of sixteen thousand
dollars in cash therefor, which was applied to the payment
of a debt due by mortgage by the succession of Alexander'
McNeill; and he exhibited a copy of the proceedings on
which the sale was founded; and his bill -of sale made by the
marshal for the land and negroes. These proceedings and the
marshal's deed were given in evidence by the defendhnt on the
trial before the State District Court. A judgment was there
given against Erwin, and the property decreed to Lowry as
curator; from which Erwin appealed to the Supreme Court
of Louisiana, where the judgment-of the District Court was
affirmed; and to this judgment Erwin prosecuted a writ of
error out of this court;iunder the twenty-fifth section of the
Judiciary Act ,of 1789, on the ,ground that there was drawn in
question the validity of an authority exercised under the
United States, and that the decision of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana was- against its validity. That such was the fact,.
and that this court has jurisdiction, is'not and cannot be con-troverted. The judgment ordering the seizure and sale was
declared'void, for several reasons. Such of them as are subject to our cognizance we will proceed to consider.
The whole proceeding, commencing with the petition of
Andrew Erwin demanding a seizure and sale, to James Erwin's
deed from the marshal, *as the exercise of one authority; and
the question submitted for our consideration is, whether the
marshal's sale was void on any legal'ground ; - that is to say,
whether the deed by the marshal to James Erwin was void for
the reason that it was not supported by a lawful judgment, or
that, for want of a compliance with any legal requirements in
conducting the seizure and sale, the deed was void. If void
on any one ground, "it
would be altogether useless to reverse

SUPREME COURT.
Erwin v. Lowry.

the judgment because an error had been commitfed on some
other ground; as, on the cause being remanded, the State
court would pronounce the deed void a second time on the
true ground. This court was compelled so to hold in Collier
v. Stanbrough, 6 How. 14.
The deed, in the case before us, was held void by the Supreme Court of Louisiana: -First,
because Hector McNeill
was not a citizefi of that State when Andrew Erwin's petition
was filed. This fact the court ascertained by proof dehors the
record. The petition alleges that Andrew Erwin was a citizen
of the State -of Tennessee, therein residing; and that Hector
McNeill was a citizen of the State of Louisiana, residing in the
parish of Madison, aid within the jurisdiction of the court.
On being served witih process, Iector McNeill did not dispute
the fact, nor make any defence; the purchaser found the fact
established by the record, nor could it be called in question in
a collateral action and disproved, and the purchaser's title defeated by inferior evidence. On this question the case of
McCormick v. Sullivan, 10 Wheaton, 192, is entitled to great
weight. There neither party was averred to be a citizen of
any State; and the attempt was made by a second suit to treat
the purchaser's title as a nullity, because -of this defect in the
proceeding on which the purchase was founded; "but it was
held that the purchaser took a good title. In the case nefore
us, -he record on its face was perfect, and evidence was let in
to contradict and to overthrow it, which we deem to be wholly
inadmissible in any collateral proceeding. Hector McNeill was
estopped to deny the fact; and so is the present party, hissuecessor.
The next question decided below was, that the property
when it was seized and sold was part of a succession, and,
being in the course of administration in the Probate Court,
could not be seized and sold by an execution founded on a
proceeding in another court. This question we declined to
decide in the case of Collier v. Stanbrough, and ruled that
cause on another ground. That a special mortgage, where no
succession has occurred, may be foreclosed by this mode of
proceeding, -that
is, by an order of seizure and sale in the
Circuit Court of the United States held in Louisiana,- we have
.no doubt. But the question here is, whether jurisdiction' could
be exercised over mortgaged property whilst it was in a course
of administration. That no jurisdiction existed in the United
States Circuit Court was held in the case before us ; and so it
had been held by the Supreme Court of Louisiana in previous
cases. But in 1847 that court reviewed its previous decisions,
in the case of Dupuy v. Bemiss. In the opinion there given,

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

101

Erwin v. Lowry.

the jurisdiction of the Federal court held in Louisiana is so
accurately and cogently set forth, and the relative powers
-and duties of the State and Federal judiciaries are so justly
appreciated, us to relieve us from all further anxiety and embarrassment on the delicate question of conflict arising in the
case of Collier v. Stanbrough, and again in this cause. It was
held in the case of Dupuy v. Bemiss, that, where a lien existed
on property by a special mortgage before the debtor's death,
and the property passed by death and succession, with the lien.
attached, into the hands of a curator, and was in the course of
administration in the Probate Court, the Circuit Court of the
United States had jurisdiction, notwithstanding, to proceed
agaufat the propdrty, and to enforce the creditor's lien, and to
decree a sale of the property, and that such sale was valid.
We accord to this adjudication our decided approbation.; but
take occasion to say, that, had we unfortunately been compelled
to decide the question without this aid, our judgment would
have been, that the decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in the cause' under consideration was 'erroneous. It was.
also assumed by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, "that no.
explanation was given how the notes secured by the mortgage..
got into Andrew Erwin's hands in Tennessee, and that no.
transfer of the mortgage was proved to have been made tc him
without which, no State judge could have granted an order of
saizure and sale without a violation of law." We hold that
wherever a judgment is given by a iourt having jurisdiction of
the parties and of the subject-matter, the exercise of jurisdic-tion warrants the presumption, in favor of a purchaser, thatv
the facts which were necessary to be proved to confer jurisdiction were proved. It was so held by this court in the case of
Grignon's Lessee v. Astor, 2 How. 319, and to the principles
there laid down we refer for the true rule.. The Circuit Court
may have erred in granting the order of seizure and sale, but
this does not affect the purchaser's title.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana next held, that ".it is well
settled in our jurisprudence, that, in forced alienations of property, there must be a reasonable diligence in, and compliance
with, the forins of the law, under a penalty of nulli'y. When
a party resorts to the summary and more severe remedies
allowed by law, lie is then held to a stricter compliance with.
every legal formality, and the executory process of seizure and
sale may be considered as one of severity. It is obtained e
.parte,and all the proceedings under it are to be scrutinized
closely. It necessarily follows, that, if the law has not -been
complied with, the property is not transferred, and the purchaser acquires no' title." This was the doctrine adopted by
VOL. V1I.
16

182

SUPREME COURT.
Erwin v. Lowry.

us in the case of Collier v. Stanbrough, and is no more dpen to
question -in the Circuit Court of Louisiana than it is in the
State courts of that State ; and the question is, how far the
marshal complied with the legal formalities in conducting the.
seizure and sale. He was bound to give three darsl notice to
the debtor before the seizure, if he resided on the spot, and if
he did not, to count in addition a day for every twenty miles
between the residence of the debtor and the residence of the
judge to whom the petition was presented. (Code of Practice,
735.) The notice was given to Hector McNeil on the 29th
day of May, 1840, requiring him to pay within three days ; the
property was seized on the 1st day of June; the advertisements
were posted up on the 4th of June, and the property sold on
the 6th day of July following. The notice was given in the
parish of Carroll, about four hundred miles from New Orleans,
where the judge resided, so that more than twenty days less
than the due time required by law was allowed to the defendant, Hector McNeill, to appear before the judge, obtain an injunction, and make opposition to the proceeding instituted by
Andrew Erwin; and for this reason the sale would be void, if
the defendant, McNeill, had not acted in the matter. But the'
marshal's returns are required by the practice in Louisiana to
show the various steps in the proceedings, and are part of the
record on which James Erwin's title depends; these returns
show that McNeill was served with process on the spot where
the property was, and where the advertisements were posted.
When the sale came on, the marshal returns, that, "1by agreement of the plaintiff and defendant in the suit, that is, Andrew
Erwin and Hector McNeill, the following individuals were
selected as appraisers, to wit: Jam6s Brooks was selected by
the plaintiff, and Jesse Couch was selected by the defendant;
who, being duly sworn, proceeded to appraise all the property
mentioned in the order of seizure and sale; that they appraised
the negroes and the land; that is, each slave separately, and
the land separately." Both land and slaves being immovable
property, if two thirds of the. appraised value had not been bid
at the sale, a second was necessary by the laws of Louisiana.
(Code of Practice, 670, 671, &c.) And by Art. 676, 1" Slaves
seized must be appraised, either by the head or by families;
and the other effects must be appraised with such minuteness
that they may be sold together or separately, to the best advantage of the debtor, and as he may direct.'
The marshal's deed to James Erwin recites in general terms
all the necessary-steps required'to be taken previous to the
sale; and, after describing in detail all the property, the deed
says, that " the marshal proceeded to cry the aforesaid land and

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

183

Erwin v." 'Lowry.

negroes to go together, at the request of the defendant, Hector
McNeill; and that James Erwin.became the 'purchaser, for the
sum of sixteen thousand dollars; being more than two thirds
the appraised value of the land and negroes." The general
principle as respects third persons is, that where one having
title stands by and knowingly permits another to purchase and
expend. money on land, under the erroneous impression that he
is acquiring a good title, and the one who stands by does not
make his title known, he shall not afterwards be allowed to set
it up against the purchaser. We understand the decisions in
Louisiana to conform to this prihciple, and that it is applicable
there in cases of execution sales; and, as lands and slaves stand
on the 'same footing in Louisiana, the rule applies equally to
both.
Testing the sale by this principle, how does it stand? The
purchaser saw the debtor and the marshal select the appraisers,
and saw the appraised value, so that bidders could regulate
their bids by it; he heard the debtor order the marshal to sell
the plantation and slaves together, and they were so sold. Nor
did the debtor make any objection to the sale, but by his acts
and presence sanctioned it; and. therefore it cannot be impeached because formal steps were not strictly complied with
In our opinion, the order of seizure and sale, and the steps
taken in its execution, were such as to support the sale adjudicated to James Erwin by the marshal; but we only adjudge
the force and effect of the legal proceeding. As to any other
questions involved in the cause (if there be any), this court
has no jurisdiction, and consequently leaves them with the
State courts.
At October term, 1843, the Clrator, Lowry, had judgment,
but the court below ordered, "that no writ of possession issue
in this cdse to put the plaintiff in possession of the plantation
and slaves until he pay the defendant, or deposit in the bands
of the sheriff of the parish to the credit of the defendant,
$ 436.55, with interest thereon, at the rate of five per cent, per
annum, from the 18th day of March in the year 1843, -until
the day of payment or deposit."
In August, 1844, Lowry paid over the money to the sheriff
of the parish of Madison; and the sheriff paid it over to Ei wvin
in November, 1844. The writ of error was sued out in May,
1845; and there accompanied the record an assignment of
errors. The defendant in error now comes forward, and asks
to have the writ of error dismissed on production of a copy. of
Erwin's receipt to the sheriff., on the ground that, by receiving
the money, Erwin released the errors complained of.
In the first place, we think the motion comes too late to be

"384

SUPREME COURT.
Erwin v. Lowry.

heard; but that if it could be heard, it is no bar. The proceeding was of a mixed character, partaking more of the nature
of a proceeding in equity than one at law; and although it can
only come here by writ of error, yet this does not change its
character., A writ of error in equity proceedings is not pecu'liar. The twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act-of 1789
gave a writ of-error in clanceiry cases, and so the law coritinued until 1803. (Oh. 40..) And we take the rule to be, that
altiaough a decree in equity is fully executed, at the instance
of the successful party, he cannot complain of his own voluntary acts, if he does perform a condition imposed upon him
before he can have the fruits of the decree, although the
other party derives a benefit from such performance. If it was
otherwise, a writ of error in such a case as the present, or an
appeal in equity, might be defeated after the writ of, error or
appeal was sued out,'where there waq no supersedeas; and
here there was none.
Five years is the time allowed for prosecuting appeals to
-and writs of error 'out of this court, and in many cases decrees
and judgments are executed before any step is taken to bring
the case here; yet in no instance within our knowledge has
an appeal or writ of error been dismissed on the assumption
that a release of errors was implied from the fact that money or
property had changed hands by force of the judgment or decree. If the judgmerit is reversed, it is the duty of the inferior
court, on the cause being remanded, to restore the parties to
their rights.
For the reasons above stated, we order the judgment of' the
Supreme Court of Louisiana to"be reversed.
Mr. Justice WAYNE and Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.
Order. This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
'record from the Supreme Court for. the Western District of
Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
'whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Supreme Court in this cause be
and the same is hereby reverse&; with costs, and that this causp
be and the same is, hereby remanded to the said Suprem Court,
with directions to proceed therein in conformity to the opinion
,of this court.

