JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

8S

Passenger Cases.-Smith v. Turner.

motion of Mr. Inge, of counsel for the defendants in error, to
dismiss this writ of error for the want ofjurisdiction. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that this cause be and the same is hereby dismissed
for the want of jurisdiction.

GEORGE SMITH, PLAINTIFF IN .ERROR, V.

WILLIAM TuINEE, HEALTH-

COMMISSIONER OF THE PORT OF

Naw

YORK.

JAMES NoRRIS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE CITY OF BOSTON.
Statutes of the States of New York and Massachusetts, imposing taxes upon alien
passengers arriving in the ports of those States, declared to be contrary to the
Constitution and laws of the United States, and therefore null and void.
Inasmuch as there was no opinion of the court, as a court, the reporter refers the
reader to the opinions of the judges for an explanation of the statutes and the
goints in which they conffilcted..with the Constitution aifd laws of the United
tates.

THESE were kindred cases, and were. argued together. They
were both brought up to this court by writs of. error issued under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act; the case of
Smith v. Turner being brought from the Court for the Trial of
Impeachments and Correction of Errors of the State of New'
York, and the case of Norris v. The City of Boston from, the
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts. The opinions of.
the justices of this court connect the two casds so closely,
that the same course will be pursued in reporting them which
was adopted in the License Cases. .Many of'the arguments
of counsel relate indiscriminately to both. A statement of
each case will, therefore, be made separately, and the argu-"
ments and opinions be placed in their appropriate class, as far
as practicable.
SMITH v. TuR.NER

In the first volume of the Revised Statutes of New York,
pages 445, 446, title 4, will be found the law of the State
whose constitutionality was brought into question in this case.,
The law relates- to the marine hospital, then established upon
Staten Island, and under the superintendence of a physician
and certain commissioners of health.
The seventh section provides, that "1the health-commissioner.
shall demand and be entitled to receive, and in'case of neglect
or refusal to pay shall sue for and recover, in his name of office,

2SUPREME

COURT.
Passenger Cases. -Smith

v. Turner.

the following sims from the ,master of every vessel that phall
arrive in the port of New York, viz.:
" 1.. From the master of every vessel from a foreign port, for
himself and each cabin passenger, one dollar and fifty cents;
for each steerage passenger, mate, sailor, or mariner, one dollar.
"2. From the master of each coasting-vessel, for each person on board, twenty-five cents; but no coasting-vessel from
the States of tiew Jersey, Connecticut, and Rhode Island shall
pay for more than one voyage in each -month, computing from
the first voyage in each year."
The eighth section provides that the money so received shall
be denominated- " hospital moneys." And the ninth. section
gives "each master paying hospital moneys a right to demand
and recover from each person the sum paid on his account."
The tenth section declares7.any master who shall fail to make
the above payments within twenty-four hours after the arrival
of his vessel in the port shall forfeit the sum of one hundred
dollars. By the eleventh. section, the 6ommissioners of health
are required to account annually to the Comptroller of the State
for all moneys received by them for the use of .the marine hospital; "and if such moneys.shall in any one year 6xceed the sum
necessary to defray the expenses of their trust, including their
own salaries, and exclusive of such expenses as are to be. borne
and paid as a part of the contingent charges of the city of New
York, they shall pay over such surplus to the treasurer of -the
Society for the Reformation of Juvenile Delinquents in the city
of New York, for the use of the society."
Smith was master of the British ship Henry Bliss, which arrived at New York in June, 1841, and landed two hundred and
ninety-five' steerage- passengers. Turner, the health-commissioner,' brought an action against him for the sum of $295.
To this the following demurrer was filed, viz.: "And the said George Smith, defendant in this suit,'by ?J.
R. Zabriskie, his attorney, comes and defends the wrong and
injury, when, &c., and says that the said declaration, and the
matters therein contained, in manner and form as the same are
above stated and set forth, are not sufficient in law for the said
plaintiff to have or maintain his aforesaid action. thereof against
the said defendant, and that the said defendant is not bound by
law to answer the same ; for that the statute of this State, in
said declaration referred, to, in pursuance -of *hich the said
plaintiff claims to be entitled to demdnal and receive from the
said dtfendant the sum of money in said declaration named, is
contrary to the Constitution of the United States, and void,
and this he is ready to verify."
The plaiiitiff joined in demurrer, and the Supreme Court

JANUA.RY

TERM,"1849.

286

Passenger Cases.-Norris v. City of.Bostan.

of Judicature of the People of the State of New York overruled the demurrer, and gave judgment for the plaintiff, on the
28th of September, 1842. The cause was carried, by writ of
error, to the Court for the Trial of Impeachments and CorIrection of Errors, which affirmed the judgment of the court
below in October, 1843. A writ of error, issued under .the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, brought the case up
to this court.
NoRis ,v. Crm

or BoSTON.

Norris was an inhabitant of St. 'John's, in the Province of
New Brunswick and kingdom of Great Biftain. --He .wa %the
master of a vessel, and arrived in the port of Boston.in -June,
1837, in command of a schooner belonging to the port of St.
John's, having on board nineteen alien lasseqgers. Prior ;to
landing, he was compelled, by virtue of a law 6f Massachusetts
which is set forth in the special verdict of the jury, to pay the
sum of two dollars for each passenger to the city of Boston.
At the October term, 1837, of the Court of -Common.Pleas,
Norris brought a suit against the city of Boston, to recover this
money, and was nonsuited. The cause was carried up -to -the
Supreme Judicial Court, where it was tried in November, -1S42.
The jury found a special verdict as follows: -:"The jury find, that at a session of the legislature -of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, holden at the city, of Boston,
on the 20th of April, 1837, the following law was passed -and
enacted, to wit, ' An act relating to alien passengers.'
",' Sec. 1st. When any vessel shall arrive at any port or harbour within this State, from any port or place without the same,
with alien passengers on board, the officer or officers whom the
mayor and aldermen of the city, or the-selectmen of the-town,
where it is proposed to land such passengers, are hereby authorized and required to appoint, shall go on board such vessels
and examine into the condition of said passengers.
"'Sec. 2d. If, on such examination, there shall be found
among said passengers any lunatic, idiot, maimed, aged, or infirm person, incompetent, in the opinion of the officer so examining, to maintain themselves, or who have been paupers in
any other coumtry, no such alien passenger shall be permitted
to-land until the master, owner, consignee, or agent of such
vessel shall' have given to such city or town a bond in the sum
of one thousand dollars, with good and sufficient security, that
no such lunatic or indigent passenger shall become a city,
town, or State charge within ten years from the date of ;aid
bond.

286

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Norris v. City of Boston.

" 1Sec. 3d. No alien passenger, other than those spoken of in
the preceding section, shall be permitted to land until the mnaster, owner, consignee, or agent of such vessel shall pay to the
regularly appointed boarding officer the sum -of two dollars for
each passenger so landing; and the money so collected shall be
paid into the treasury of the city or town, to be appropriated
as the city or town may direct for the support of foreign
paupers.
"'Sec. 4th. The officer or officers required in the first section
of this act to be appointed by the mayor and aldermen, or the
selectmen, respectivelyi shall, from time to time, notify the
pilots of the port of said city or town of the place or places
where the said examination is made, and the said pilots shall
be required to anchor all such vessels at the place so appointed,
and require said vessels there to remain till such examination
shall be made; and any pilot who shall refuse or neglect to
perform the duty imposed upon him by this section, or who
shall through negligence or design permit any alien passengers
to land before such examination shall be had, shall forfeit to
the city or town a sum not less than fifty nor more than two
thousand dollars.
"' Sec. 5th. The provisions of this act shall not apply to any
vessel coming on shore in distress, or to any alien passengers
taken from any wreck when life is in danger.
"'Sec. 6th. The twenty-seventh section of the forty-sixth
chapter of the Revised Statutes is hereby repealed, and the
twenty-eighth and twenty-ninth sections of the said chapter
shall relate to the proviiions of this act in the same manner as
they now relate to thee section hereby repealed.
"'Sec. 7th. This act shall take effect from and after the passage of the same, April 20th, 1857.'
"And the jury further find, that the twenty-eighth and
twenty-ninth sections, above referred to, are in the words following, to wit:
"'Sec. 28th. If tony master or commanding officer of any
vessel shall land, ot per mit to be- landed, any alien passengers, contrary to the provisionsof the preceding section, the master,
-or commanding 6fficer of such vessel, and the owner or con-.
signee thereof, shall forfeit the sum of two huidred dollars Tir
every alien' passenger so landed; provided always, that the provisions aforesaid shall not be construed ,to extend to seamen
sent from foreign places by. consuls or vice-eonsuls of the United. States.
"' Sec. 29th. If any master or commanding officer of any
vessel shall land any alien passenger at any place within this
State other than that to which such vessel shall be destined,

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

287

Passenger Cases.-Norris ip. City of Boston.

with intention' t avoid the requirements aforesaid, such masteror commanding officer shall forfeit the sum of one hundred
dollars for every alien passenger so landed.'
"And the jury, further find, that the plaintiff in the above
action is an inhabitant of St. John'6,in the Province of New
Brunswick and kingdom of Great Britain; that he arrived in
the port of Boston oi or about the twentysixth day of June,
A. D. 1837, in command of a certain schooner called the
Union Jack, of and belonging to said port of St. John's;
there was on board said schooner at the time of her arrival in
said port of Boston, nineteen persons, who were passengers-in
said Union Jack, aliens to each and every of the States of the
United States, but none of them were lunatics, idiots. maimed,
aged, or infirm.
"That prior to the landing of said passengers the sum of two
dollars for each and every passenger was demanded of the
plaintiff by Calvin Bailey, in the name of the city of Boston,
and said sum, amounting to thirty-eight dollars, was paid by
the plaintiff to said Bailey, for permission to land said alien
passengers in said Boston; said' sum being paid by the plaintiff under a protest that the exacting the same was illegal.
"That said Calvin Bailey was the regularly appointed boarding officer for said city of Boston, chosen by the City Council
'(consisting of the mayor- and aldermen) in pursuance of said
act, entitled IAn act relating to alien passengers '; that as
such, said Bailey demanded and received said sum of thirtyeight dollars.
"But whether upon the afordeaid facts the defendant did
promise, the jury are ignorant.
"1If the court shall be of opinion that the aforesaid facts are
sufficient to sustain the plaintiff's claim, then the jury find
that the defendant did promise, in manner and form as the
plaintiff hath alleged, and aisess damages in the sum of 'thirktyeight dollars.
"But if the court are of opinion that the aforesaid facts are
not sufficient to sustain the plaintiff's claim, then the jury find
that the defendant did not promise in manner and form as the
plaintiff hath alleged."
Upon this special verdict the court gave judgment for the
defendant, from which judgment a writ of error brought the
case up to this court.
The case of Smith v. Turner was argued at December term,
1845, by Mr. Webster and Mr. D. B. Ogden, for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Willis Hall and Mr. John Van Buren, for the defendant in error; at December term, 1847, by

288

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.t--orris v. City of Boston.

the same counsel upoi each side,; and at December term, 1848,.
by Mr.-John Van Buren, for the defendant in error.
The case of Norris v. The City of Boston was argued at December term, 1846, by Mr. Webster and Mr. Ciwate, for the
plaintiff in error, and by -Mr. Davis, for the defendant in error;
at December term, 1847, by Mr. Choate, for the plaintiff in error; and at December term, 1848, by Mr. Webster and Mr. J.
PrescottHall, for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Davis and
Mr. Ashmun, f6r the defendant in error.
It is impossible to report all these arguments. If it -were
done, these cases alone would require a volume. The Reporter
selects such sketches of the arguments as have been kindly furnished to him by the counsel themselves, and omits those for
which he would have to rely upon his own notes.
The arguments reported are those of Mr. D. B. Ogden and
Mr. J. Prescott Hall, for the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Davis;
Mr. Willis Hall, and Mr. Van Buren, for the defendant in
error. Mr. Ogdm argued the New York, and Mr. J. Prescott
Hall the Boston case. On the other sid, the New York case
was argued by Mr. Willis Hall and Mr. Van Buren, and the
Boston case by Mr. Davis. Although the arguments are
placed 'in the usual order, namely, one for the plaintiff in the
first place, then those for the defendant in error, and then a.
concluding argument for the plaintiff in error, yet it is certain
that some of these counsel never heard the arguments to
which, frem this collocation, they might be suppoied to reply,
arising from the different terms at which the arguments were
made. The Reporter has observed the order of tiiae in arranging them as he has done. He knows that some injustice.
is done 'to the counsel, but it is impossible to avoid it.
The points stated.upon both sides were as follows, viz. :NoRms V. CITY OF BOSTON.
On the part of the plaintiff in error it will be contended:1. That the act in question is a regulation of commerce of
the strictest and most important class, and that Congress possesses the exclusive power of making such a regulation. ,
And hereiuder will be cited 11 Pet. 102; 4 Wash. C. C.
379 ; 3 How. -212; 14 Pet. 541 ; 4 Met. 285; 2 Pet. 245; 9
Wheat. 1-- 12 Wheat. 436; Federalist, No. 42 ; 3 Cow, 473;
1 Rent, 5th ed. ; 2 Story's Com.
Const. 506; 15 Pet. 506;
3 N. H. 499.
2. That the act is an impost or duty on imports, and so expressly prohibited by the Constitution, or is in fraud. of that
-prohibition.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

289

Passenger Cases.-Smith v. Turner.

And hereunder. will be cited 4 Met. 285; 12 Wheat. 4 6;
Dig. Lib. 1, tit. 3, De Leg. et Senat: Cons. § 29; 3 Cow. 738;
[4' Pet. 570.'
3. That it is repugnant to the actual-regulations and legally
manifested will of Congress. 9 Wheat. 210; 4 Met. 295; 11
Pet. 137; 12 Wheat. 446; 5 Wheat. 22; 6 Pet. 515; 15 Pet.
509; 14 Pet. 576; Laws U. S. 1799, c. 128, § 46; 1 Story's
Laws, 612, 1819, c.. 170; 3 Story's Laws, 1722, Laws of
Naturalization, 1802, c. 28; 1816, c. 32; 1824, c. 186.
D. WEBSTER,
R. CHOATE,

For Plaintiff in error.
SMrTH v. TumER.

The points on behalf of *the defendant in error were thus
stated by Mr. Willis Hall and Mr. Van Buren:-.
I. This case involves precisely the same question that was
submitted to this court in the case of the-City of New York
v. Miln, 11 Peters, 102, which, after two discussions, was decided, on full consideration, in favor of 'the State power.
II. The Constitution of the United States i. a specific grant
of certain enumerated powers-, made to the Union by existing:
State sovereignties, coupled with prohibitions upon the States.
If a given power is not granted to the Union or prohibited to
the States, it is a demonstration that it belongs to the States.
III. The quarantine laws of the State of New York have'
been sanctioned-and adopted by Congress, and frequently ad-verted to by this court with approbation.
IV. The quarantine charges are merely a common. law' toll .
granted by the State to the Board of Health of the city of New
York, in the exercise of- an undoubted right, which the State
has never, directly or indirectly, given up or abandoned.
V. An historical examination of the earlier laws of the State
will authorize the three following conclusions, to wit: 1. The people of the State of New York have acted in good.
faith. They have not, under color of quarantine or health laws,
attempted to regulate commerce. They" have had no object. in
view but protection from infectious diseases.
2. The people of the State of New York, when they adoptedthe Federal Constitution, did not understand it as depriving
them of this right. They did riot suppose their harbours were
to be taken from them, but only that they were to allow theUnion to use them for purposes of war and commerce. Had
they understood it -as now claimed, there is no hazard-in saying it never would have been adopted.

290

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argnment of Mr. Ogden.

point contended for by the defendant in error is contemporaneous with its formation, and has been continued without
objection for half a century.
The rile" in Stewart's case therefore applies, "that a contemporary exposition of the Constitution of the United States,
adopted in practice, and acquiesced in for a number of years,
fixes the meaning of it, and the court will not control it."
VI. If the law in, question is deemed to be in the nature of
an inspection law, it'lays no "duty on imports or exports," and
therefote comes not within the prohibitions or provisions of the
teth section of -the first. article, or in any manner within the
cognizance of the-Federal Constitution.
But if, on the other .hand, the court think the tenth section
applicable to this law, then the section itself prescribes the only
redress.
VII. It is not a regulation of commerce, because not So intended in fact nor by presumption of law; all the physical
instruments or agents on which a regulation of commerce can
act are merely means, and as such common to the States, unless expressly prohibited to them. "
VIII. It is not "1an impost or duty upon imports," because
passengers voluntarily immigrating into the country by sea or
land can in no sense be called "imports."
IX. The law in question, so far from being an infringement
of Federal power, is exclusively within the State power. The
end is the health of the city of New York, and of those who
enter it, which is an object not committed to Congress. ' The
means, a tax upon passengers equally removea ft6m Federal
jurisdiction.
Mr. D. B. Ogden, for the plaintiff in error.
This is a second argument in this case, which has been ordered by the court, it -must be presumed, in consequence of a
difference of opinio*n upon the'case among the members bf the
court by Whom the former argument was heard..
This admonishes me, that, however confident I may heretofore have felt that the judgment of the Court for the Correction of Errors in New York ought to be reversed, there must
be great and serious doubts upon the subject. I therefore nter upon this second argument with a confidence certa-inly
much lessened, but with a hope of success by no means extinguished.
By the Constitution of the United States, the people of the
United States"have vested certain powers in Congress, and the
people of the several Stat~s have vested in their respective
State legislatures other powers.

JANUARY .TERM, 1849.

291

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Ogden.

It is to be expected, that, in this complex system, composed
of two, governments, difficulties will arise as to the true line of
distirction between the powers of 'the one government and the
other.
To ascertain and point out with precision where that line is,
and to say, both to the general and to the State governments,
thus far shalt thou go and no farther, is the high and exalted
duty of this honorable court. It is a duty imposed upon it by
the poople of the United States, who 'have declared in their
Constitution that the judicial power of the government shall
extend to all cases in law or equity arising under the Constitution. No court ever held so exalted a station. It represents
the sovereignty of the people of a great nation. Its decrees
are the decrees of the people, and it is intended to secure to the
people the benefits 6f their Constitution by -keeping within their
proper constitutional bounds all the other departments of both
the general and State governments.
You are now called upon by the plaintiff in error in this
case to examine and decide upon the constitutionality and
validity of a law passed by one of the State legislatures. I
feel and acknowledge, not only the importance, but the great
delicacy, of the question before me.
I knowI to use the language of the late chief justice in the
great case of Fletcher v. Peck, that "' this court will not declare a law of a State to be unconstitutional, unless he opposition between the Constitution and the law be clear and plain."
The duty of deciding upon the constitutionality of this law,
you must perform. You will decide it cautiously, not rashly,
--. with great care and deliberation, but it the same time with
that fearlessness which the peopl6 of the United States, and my
clients, who consider their constitutional rights violated by this
law, have a right to expect at your hands.
Befofe I proceed to the argument of the particular points
which arise in this case, I hope I may be pardoned in making
one or two preliminary remarks. They are made with perfect.
respect for the court, and for every member of it; and they
are .made because, in my humble opinion, they ought never to
be lost sight of by the court when considering a constitutional
question.
In all our courts the judges are bound to decide according to
the law of the land; not according to what they think the law
ought to be, but according to the manner in which they find
it settled by adjudged cases. The judges are bound by the
most solemn obligations to decide according to the law as they
find it. In cases where, perhaps, it was originally a question
of great doubt what the law was, but it has now been ren-

292

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Ogden.

dered certain by a variety of judicial decisions, no judge would,
in ordinary cases, -although. he might think the law should
have been settled otherwise, feel himself at liberty to decide
contrary to a series of adjudged cases upon the subject, but
would feel *himself bound to yield his opinion to the authority
of such cases.
This court have always, in ordinary cases between man and
man, adhered to this rule.
If this were not so, it will at once be perceived that the law
would remain for ever unsettled, which would be one of th(
greatest misfortunes in a community like ours, who are gov
ermed by fixed laws, and' not by the whims and caprices o
judges, or of any other set of men. Lord Mansfield, in delivei
ing one of his opinions, said that it was not so much matte
what the law in the case was, as that it should be settled an(

known.
Now if, in questions originally doubtful, the good of the
community requires that they should be considered as settled
by adjudged cases, and what was doubtful before should be
considered so ne longer, I-ask the court whether djudged cases
upon points of doubtful construction of the Constitution are
not peculiarly within the good sense and principle of the rule?
If,.in ordinary questions, it is the interest of the public that
there should be an end of litigation as to what the law js, is it
not emphatically the interest of the public- that their great organic law,,should be fixed and settled? - that, in points upon
which the construction of the Constitution is doubtful, (and'
it could only be when that construction is doubtful that the
case could come before this court,) the- construction given by
adjudged cases should be adhered to?
If in orqinary cases between man and man it is important
that the law should be settled, it seems to me that it is infinitely more important to the community that the construction
of the Constitution should be settled. It is all-important to
every citizen of the United States that he should know -what
his constitutional rights and duties are. This, in many cases,
can only be learned by the decisions of this court. And if
those decisions are'to be changed with every change of judges,
what are our constitutional rights worth? To-day they are
one thing, to-morrow another.
Instead of being fixed and stable, they change with the
opinions of every new judge, they become anstable as the
wind, and our boasted constitutional rights may be said no
longer to depend upon law, but we hold them according to the
whims and caprice of the judges who may.happen to be on
the bench of this court.

JANUARY TERMV, 1849.

29

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Ogden.

I press this point no further. I repeat it, the observations
which I have made upon it are submitted most respectfully to
the court. I hope I have not pressed them in an offensive manner. I certainly mean not to do so. I feel their importance to
my clients and to the people at-large, and I hope the court will
excuse any undue earnestness in my manner.
Mly clients feel thaf their constitutional rights, as settled by
former adjudications of this court, have been violated by the
law of'New York, and they claim the benefit of the construction of the Constitution as settled by those former adjudica-

tions.
Thre is one other point to which I wish to call the attention of the court prior to entering upon the argument of the
case. The rights of the State governments were urged with
great vehemence by the counsel for the defendant in error
upon the former argument.. And in every argument which I
have ever heard in this court, in which the validity of State
laws came in question, the same argument has been urged, and
pressed with equal vehemence. I have views upon this subject which I wish briefly to submit to the consideration of the
court.
We talk.a great deal of the sovereignty of the United States
and of the sovereignty of the several States. I hold that the
only sovereignty in this country is in the people.- From them,
humanly speaking, proceed all the powers possessed. by those
who govern them. I know and acknowledge no other sovereign than the people. Whatever powers the general government possess are given to them by the people.
Whatever
powers the State governments possess are given by the people
in.the several States. The whole sovereignty of the country
being in the people, they have the right to parcel it out, and
to place it in the-hands of such agents as they, in their wisdom,
think proper.
The people of the United States, and the people of every
State in the Union, having, by their conventions, adopted the
Constitution of the United States, and thus become parties to
it, have given and vested certain powers in the government of
the United Sttes; and. in the itrongest terms have declared
that all those powers are to be exercised independent of all authority of the local State governments, because they have made
it incumbent upon the members of the several State legislatures
to take an oath to support this Constitution, thus making the
government of the United States, and intending to make it,
.supreme so far as the powers vested in it are granted by the
people.
I apprehend, therefore, that the questions 'arising under this•
25*

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Ogden.

Constitution are, and must be, decided by the Constitution itself, without reference to State rights or to State legislation, oito State constitutions. , This Constitution, as far as it goes, is
paramount to them all.
This Constitutioni is a most solemn instrument, to which all
the people of the United States are parties.- In construing it,
we must look at its words. Where they are plain, and- their
meaning certain, there can be no doubt that in construing it
we must give the words their full effect. The great object is to find out and ascertain the intent and meaning of the people
in adopting the Constitution, and -here the words express that
meaning clearly, there can be no room for cavil, or doubt.
Where -the words used are such as may bear two constructions, and it is a matter- of doubt what construction they ought
to receive, then we must resort to other means of constr.ing it.
We must examine, first,-the reasons and objects for which the
Constitution'was formed and adopted, and take care that in.
giving a construction to it we do not thwart the object and in'tention of those who fraied and adopted it.
*Inorder to assist us in ascertaining what was the intention
of any particular clause of the Constitution, we may refer to
tthe proceedings of the convention by whom it was formed, and
we may there discover what was their -intention when they
inserted the clause under consideration. And we may refer to
,early and contemporaneous constructions given to it by those
who were called upon to- act under it,-because the persons who
-lived and acted at the' time the Constitution was formed are
more likely to know what was its intention than we are at this
day; and it is upon this principle that contemporaneous constructions of any law are always resorted to, and deemed of
great weight.
There is one other observation upon this point which I deem
-

worthy of consideration upon this subject of State rights. The
argument resorted to upon the other side is, and always has
been, that the State governments were in existence anterior to
the formation of the Federal government, that the State governments were perfectly free and independent governments, and
that the Constitution of the United States is one of limited
powers, and that all the powers not expressly given to' it, and
not expressly taken away from the State governments, remain
in the State governments. Let us examine this argument a
little.
Itis true that, when the government of the United States
was first organized under the Constitution, there were existing
in'the Union thirteen separate independent States, all having
-constitutions formed and established, or recognized, by the peo-

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

295

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Ogden.

ple. These governments were organized by the people in the
several States with such powers as the people chose to give
them, but with no other powers. When the national government was formed, the powers of the State governments were,
to a certain extent, taken away, and vested in the rfational
government.
Since the establishment of" the present government of the
-United States, the people, in many of the States, have done
away with their old constitutions, and adopted new ones.
This is the case in Massachusetts,, Connecticut, New York,
New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia. Whether
it be so in any other of the old States I am not sure. In
Maine and Vermont in the East, and in all the new States
in the West and Southwest, the State governments came into
existence subsequent to the formation- of the Constitution of
the United States. And it is worthy of remark, that, in every
one of these new constitutions, without, as I believe, a single
exception, there is a provision that the members of the State
legislatures and the judicial and executive officers shall take
an.oath to support the Constitution of the United States.
What is the meaning and effect of this provision? Does it
not amount to a declaration by the people to the bodies constituted by the Constitution,- Remember, while we have given
you certain powers, we apprise you that we have already given
powers to the general government, and you hold the powers
now given to you upon condition that you support the Constitution of the United States, and you shall take an oath to do
so, before you shall exercise any of the powers with which we
have intrusted you? This amounts to an acknowledgmqpt of
the supremacy of the government of the United States, and of
the Constitution of the United States, so far as, by a fair construction of it, it goes. And what that construction is, this court
are to decide. And, in my view of. the Constitution, it is idle
to talk of an invasion of State righfts as a reason for not giving
a fair and just construction to it.
The very thing the people intended when they adopted the
Constitution of the United States was, that it should be the
supreme law of the land, and that this court should have the
power of construing it in all doubtful cases.
One of the wisest things ever said by Mr. Madison will be
found in his account of the proceedings of the convention who
formed the Constitution, at page 923, Vol. II., of the Madison
Papers, where he says, "1There was less danger of encroachment
from the general government than from the State governments,
and that the mischiefs from encroachments would be less fatal
if made by the former than if made by the latter." And in page

W6

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Ogden.

'924 he says, "'Guards were more -necessary against encroachments of the State governments on the general government,
than of the latter on the former."
Having made these preliminary observations, which I think
-the case called for, and which I hope the court will 'not think
out'of place, I propose now to argue the case presented to the
court' by this record for its consideration. I shall confine my
remarks entirely to the case from New York. 'I have purposely
kept myself in total ignorance as to the facts and points in the
Boston case.. I have no concern in that case, and kept myself,
therefore, ignorant upon the subject of it, lest in the course of
my argument .I might be led to say something in relation to a
ease with -which I have no business to interfere.
Before. entering upon the argument, it is necessary that the
court should distinctly understand the points in controversy between us.
'The action in the State court, the judgment in which this
'court are now asked to review, was an action of debt brought
'by the plaintiff, the health-officer of the city of New York,
against the defendant below, in order to recover the sum of one
dollar for each steerage passenger brought by the defendant, the
'master of a British ship, which arrived in New York with two
hundred' and ninety-five steerage passengers, brought on board
the said ship from Liverpool, in England, to the port of New
York. The plaintiff below claimed to be entitled to recover
'this amount from the defendant, upon the ground that he was
entitled to recover it under and by virtue of an act of the legislature of.the State of New York.
To this declaration the defendant filed a demurrer, alleging
at a cause of demurrer that the statute of New York under
which the 'plaintiff made his claim was void, it having been
passed in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
The plaintiff joined -in demurrer, and the only question therefore raised by the pleadings was the validity of the statute of
New York on which the action was founded.
.The action was commenced in the Supreme Court of the
State. Upon the argument of the demurrer, the court sustained
the validity of the law, and gave judgment for the plaintiff.
The defendant below brought his writ of error, and carried the
case up'to the Coiqrt for the Correction of Errors.in New York,
the highest court in that State. The Court of Errors affirmed
the judgment of the Supreme Court, and the case- is now
brought by 'writ of error to this court, under the provisions of
the Judiciary Act of 1789.
The single question, therefore, presented to the court by this
record is,'whether the'statute of the legislature of New York

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

29.7

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Ogden.

upon which the act is founded is an unconstitutional and invalid law, or'whether it is a constitutional and valid law.
In order to decide this question, we must first understand
what the law is. It will be found in the first volume of the
Revised Statutes, 2d ed., p. 436.
"Sec. 7. The health-commissioner shall demand and be entitled to receive, and in case of neglect or refusal to pay shall
sue for and recover, in 'his name of office, the following sums
from the master of every vessel that shall arrive in the port
of New York, viz. :"11. From the master of every vessel from a foreign port,
for himself and each cabin passenger, one dollai and fifty eents;
for each steerage passenger, mate, sailor, or mariner, one dollar.
"12. From the master of each coasting-vessel, for each person
on board, twenty-five cents; but no coasting-vessel from the
States of New Jersey, Connecticut, and Rhode Island shall pay
for more than, one voyage in each month, computing from the
first voyage in each year.
" Sec. 8. The moneys so received shall be denominated hospital moneys, and shall be appropriated td the use of the marine
hospital, deducting a commission of two and one half per cent.
for collection.
" Sec. 9. Each master paying hospital moneys shall be entitled to demand and recover from each person for whom they
shall be paid the sum paid on his account.
"1Sec. 10. Every master of a coasting-vessel shall pay to the
health-commissioner, at his office, in the city of New York,
within twenty-foux hours after the arrival of his vessel in the
port, such hospital moneys as shall then be demandable from
him; and every master, for each omission of such duty, shall forfeit the sum of one hundred dollars."
By the thirteenth section it is made the duty of the commissioners of health to account annually to the Comptroller of the
State for all moneys received for the use of the marine hospital;
and if such moneys shall, in any one year, exceed the sum
necessary to defray the expenses of their trust, including their
own salaries, and exclusive of such expenses as are to be borne
arid paid as part of the contingent charges of the city of New
York, they shall pay over the surplus to the treasurer of the
Society for the Reformation of Juvenile Delinquents in the city
of New York, for the use of the said society.
It is by a subsequent section declared, that there shall be paid
to the Society for the Reformation of Juvenile Delinquents the
sum of eight thousand dollars.
By referring to the same book, 1 Revised Statutes, 2d ed.,
417', it will be found that the board of health, in the city of

298

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Ogden.

New York consists, besides the mayor of the city, of the
health-officer, the resident physician, and the health-commissioner.
The health-officer is to reside at the quarantine grouid, to
board and examine any vessel arriving, &c., and to have the
charge of the hospital at the quarantine ground.
The resident physician and the health-commissioner are to
reside in the city, and shall meet daily at the office of the board
of health in the city during certain portions of the year. And
they are to receive an annual salary of one thousand dollars
each, to be paid out of the moneys appropriated for the use of
the 1iarine hospital.
In page 425, section 43, all passengers plated under quarantine, who shall be unable to maintain themselves, shall be provided for by tie master of the -vessel in which they shall have
arrived.
Thge laws, then, impose a tax upon all passengers arriving
at the port of New York. Have the legislature of New York
'the cotstitutional power to impose such a tax? It is a tax, not
-ohly' .upon *foreign passengers, but a tax upon every citizen of
-the United States' arriving coastwise at that port. But we
have in this case to deal only with that part of the. act imposing 'a -tax upon foreigners arriving in a foreign ship from
a foreign port.
The principal ground uponwhich the validity of the law is
attemipted to be supported is, that it is a part of the quarantine
systen '*hich it is essential .for-the safety and health -of the city
of-New York that -thelegislature of that Sta:te should have the
power f establishing, which power they never intended to part
with When they adopted the Constitution of the United 'States.
Let us stop here and examine into the strength of this argumetit, which is the very corner-stone upon which the whole
•fibric 6f this statute is attempted to be reared and sustained.
That every community has a ight. to provide for its own
safety is readily admitted. Salus pouli,est suprema les, is a
maxim always true in all nations, and is acted upon by all
'civilized, as well as dl uncivilized, nations. I admit it in its
"fullest force. The quarantine laws of New York are upon
this principle to be justified and maintained.
A brief reference to a part of their history may not be without its use-in this case.
'The iCovstituftion having given to Congress power to regulate the commerce of the country with foreign nations: and
between the several States, under that power Congress, have
-passed laws in -relation to -ships and vessels of the United
States, as' the means by which commerce is carried on, and
-

JANUARY
Passenger Cases.-

TERM, 1849.

299

Argument of MrOgden.

therefore within their power as having the power to regulate
commerce; and these regulations have made it incumbent
on vessels arriving at the different ports of the United States
to make entries at the custom-house within a given time,
with a manifest of their cargoes, &c., and make provision that
the cargoes shall be entered by the importers within a given
time.
It was found that some of the provisions of the quarantine
laws of New York interfered with these provisions of the court
of the United States. These laws compel vessels to come to
anchor at the quarantine ground, in certain cases to land their
cargoes there, and contain several other provisions of -this kind.
It was stated by one of the learned counsel, that a correspondence upon the subject of these laws, after repeated. visitations
of the yellow-fever, took place between John Jay, the then go'vemor of New York, and the President of -the United States,
upon the subject of these laws, which correspondence produced
the act of Congress to which I shall presently draw the attention of the court.
It is certainly not necessary for me to say that John Jay
was, not only one of the purest and best men this country has.
produced, but one of the' best lawyers in the country, well
acquainted with. the Constitution, and familiar with all its provisions. He, together with Mr. Madison and General Hamilton, wrote the Federalist, a book well known to this court,
and he was the first chief justice of this court.
Now, from the stateinent' 6f the counsel, Mr. Jay was so
strongly convinced that the exclusive power of regulating commerce was vested in Congress, that he believed that several of
the provisions of the quarantine law interfered with the power
of Congress, and that, although it was deemed by him and the
legislature of the State that those provisions were essential
parts of the quarantine laws, yet, in order to give them validity, an act of Congress was necessary. Hence his correspondence with the President, and hence the act 'of Congress to
which I will now draw your attention.
It will be recollected as an historical fact, that, in the spring
of 1794, Mr. Jay was sent as minister to England, for the purpose of endeavouring to make an an~icable settlement of our
differences with England, which then thrdatened an immediate
war between the two countries. Mr. Jay's treaty was made in
November, 1794; he returned to the United States in the
spring of .1795, and was elected governor of New York during
his absence.
The yellow-fever had first made its appearauce,.and raged
with great violence, in Philadelphia, in 1793. In 17-95, in-the

300

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Ogden.

summer, it broke out in New York, and raged there with considerable violence. 'It was no doubt immediately after this
fever had subsided that the attention of the governor and legislature of New York was called to the quarantine laws, and
thus, no doubt, the correspondence of which the counsel has
spoken took place between Governor Jay and the President.
And we find in I Story's Laws of the U. S. 432, an act passed
on May 27th, 1796, entitled "An act relative to quarantine,"
which authorizes the President to direct the revenue-officers,
and 4he officers commanding forts and revenue-cutters, to aid
in the execution of the quarantine and health laws of the
States, in such manner as may appear to him necessary. , This
was a short law, consisting of one short sentence, in substance
as I have stated it.
In February, 1799, - in less than three years afterwards, and,
after the yellow-fever had again made its appearance and' raged
with great violence in New York in 1798, - Congress passed
another law on the subject, (Ibid. 564,) which declares, that
",the quarantines, and other restraints which shall be required
and established by the health-laws of any State, or pursuant
thereto, respecting any vessels arriving in or bound to any port
or district thereof, whether from a foreign port or place or from
another district in the United States, shall be duly observed by
the collectors and all other officers of the revenue of the United
States.
"And the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized, in respect
to vessels which shall be subject to quarantine, to prolong the
terms limited for the entry of the same, and the report and entry
of their cargoes, and to vary or dispense with any other regulations applicable to such reports.
"Provided, that nothing herein shall enable any State to
collect a duty of tonnage or import without the consent of
Congress."
The other sections of the act relate to the manner in which
cargoes are to be landed, &c.
Now this law shows, that, notwithstanding the great principle
that every community has a-right to provide for the safety of
its people, by preventing the introduction of contagious and
infectious diseases, yet, in the- opinion both of Governor Jay
urd olf Congress, so exclusive is the power of Congress to
regulate commerce, that its aid and consent are necessary in
order to give validity to the quarantine laws of the different
States. And so cautious were Congress in giving their aid and
consent, that they made an" express condition in the proviso,
"that nothing herein shall enable any State to collect a duty
of tonnage or import without the"consent of Congress."

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

301

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Og4eu.

And if I shall.hereafter -succeed in proving that this
upon passengers is an import duty, then it is -not only prohibited by the Constitution, but by this act of Congress.
Having given this brief history of the introduction of the
system of quarantine, I shall now proceed to inquire whether
the law, the validity of which is now called in question, is a
quarantine law.
I would here, however, premise, that in this argument the
quarantine systems, such as they were, which were established
by the legislatures of the different States prior to the organ.ization of the general government, can have no bearing upon the
question now -under our consideration, because anterior to that
time there can be no doubt that the several State legislatures
had a constitutional power to make such regulations upon the
subject as they thought proper. Since the organization of the
Pederal governiaent, the quarantine laws of the State are enforced by the consent of-Congress in the acts to which I have
already referred, subject, however, to the conditions imposed
by these acts; and so far as the condition upon which the
assent of Congress was given has been violated, the laws are.
void.
But the question whirh I now propose to discuss is whether
the law, the validity of which is called in question, can be
considered as a part of the quarantine system of the port of
New York.
I understand the principle of these laws to be this. The
State has the right, and it is imposed upon it as a most solemn
duty, to provide for the safety of its citizens by preventing,
as far as human means can prevent it, the introduction among
them of contagious and infectious diseases.
This I understand to be the object and the end of all quarantine laws. In order to do this, the authorities of the State
have the right to prevent the introduction into the city of New
York of all pexsons laboring- under an infectious or contagious
disease. They have the right to prevent the landing of any"
merchandise or other thing which is deemed calculated to produce infectidn and disease. They have the-right to prevent
any ship or vessel, which is likely to have the seeds of contagion or infection on board of her, from coming to the city
until properly cleansed. Having these rights, they must necessarily have all the rights and powers which are essential to
their due exercise. They have, therefore, the right to boar#l
and examine every ship or vessel arriving at the port, for the
purpose of ascertaining the .tate of health of the persons on
board. They have the right to examine into the cause, as to
its nature and state and condition. They have the right to
26
VOL. v11.

302

SUPREMIE COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr."Ogden.

examine into the state of the ship, and to havd her properly
cleansed, and they have a right to detain any ship or vessel at
the quarantine ground for a length of time sufficient for all
these purposes. All these rights are acknowledged and readily
admittel to belong to every State in the Union;' The expenses attendihg such- examinations and searches 'may perhaps
be considered in the light of port charges, and may therefore
be -properly chargeable to the ship or vessel. No complaint is
made upon that subject. They are by the law charged upon
the ship.
Now what has the passenger-tax, to do with all this? Is it
in any way necessary that this tax should be laid upon passengers? What is its declared object.? It is to establish and
support a marine hospital, to pay the salaries of a, physician and
his assistant, who reside in the city of New York, and to support a society for the reformation of juvenile delinquents or
convicts.
Take the most favorable view of the case, and it is moneys
raised, not to enable the authorities of New York to prevent
the introduction of disease into that city, but to pay the expenses attending the exercise of the power of the State to
protect its citizens from the consequences of disease already in
-the city. It is a tax to save the State the expense of protecting its citizens from disease within the city, and it is not a
means of preventing the introduction of disease. It is a tax
upon passengers for the benefit of the State of New York, and
so the legislature of that State evidentlk consider it, by ap'propriating it 'to objects totally unconnected with the system
of quarantine.
By an act of the legislature of New York, 2 Rev. Stat. 430,
it will be found that the sums to be levied by the former law
upon the master, mate, and seamen are no longer to be collected by the health-commissioner, but by the trustees of the
seaman's fund, &c. And by section fifty-four, page 439, it is
declared that the eight thousand dollars appropriated by the
former act in aid of the Society for the Reformation of Juvenile Delinquents in the city of New York shall continue to be
paid by the health-commissioner out of the moneys collected
from passengers; but if the amount collected from passengers
should be insufficient (after paying all the expenses of the
quarantine establishment at Staten Island) to meet the eight
thousand dollars more appropriated from the hospital funds for
the support of the Society for the Reformation of Juvenile
Delinquents in the city of New York, then the balance to
make up the eight thousand dollars shall be appropriated annually'from the State treasury.

JANUARY TERM,-1849.

303

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Ogden.

This act is evidence of two things: 1st. That the passenger-tax is no part of the quarantine system, bit is resorted to as a means of,paying the expenses attending its execution.
2d. That the funds are applied to the relief of the State
treasury.
I have"thus stated the reasons why. the imposition of this tax
cannot be considered as any part of the quarantine laws, and
by declaring it to be unconstitutional this court will not in the
least interfere with the quarantine laws of.the States. This
law imposes a tax; it is treated as a tax levied upon passengers throughout the whole law; and the only question in the
case is, whether the legislature of the State of New York can,
in consistency with the provisions of the Constitution of the
United States, impose and collect such a tax, and it is to this
question that my argument will be applied.
Similar provisions, it is said, are made in several of the
States. I do not stop to examine into the provisions of the
different State laws upon the subject, for this plain reason: the more State laws that have been passed upon this subject,
the greater the necessity there is of this court's interference.
If the State legislatures have the power to impose a tax upon
passengers, the amount of that tax must be fixed at such a
rate as the different legislatures in their, wisdom may think
proper to fix it at. Hence the court will perceive that the tax
upon a passenger arriving in the United States may differ, and
in all probability will differ, in amount in each State having a
seaport, and thus destroy that uniformity. of taxation upon
*persons arriving here which nothing but an act of Congress
can establish, aid which the interest of the country requires.
The question now to be discussed is, whether the legislature
of the State of New York have a constitutional power to impose a tax upon foreigners arriving at the port of New York
from a foreign port.
, By the Constitution of the United -States the people of the
United States intended, instead of the old Confederation, to
form a national government. However we may differ"iht our
opinions as to the power of the general government upon some
subjects relating to our internal affairs, I think all must admit,
that, in regard to all our relations as a nation with other nations, or the subjects or citizens of other nations, the whole
power of the country is placed by the people in the hands of
the general government. Power is given to Congress to regulate commerce with foreign nations, to collect imposts and duties, to declare war and to make eace, to raise and support an
army or navy. Power is given to the national government

304

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases..-Argument of Mr. Ogden.

to make treaties, &c., with foreign nations; in short, to manage all matters which may arise between this nation and any
other. This igthe spirit of the whole Constitution; it wds one
of the causes, if not the principal cause, of its formation and
adoption.
Now, what shall be the intercourse between the United
States and d foreign nation, and between our citizens and their
citizens or subjects, and upon what .terms that intercourse
shall be carried on, are clearly national questions, and as such
must be decided upon by the national government. The
States can have no possible constitutional power in any manner to interfere with it.
It can be no answer to this to say, that, until Congress pass
some regulations upon the subject, the States may make theirown regulations upon it ;- because this is a national question.
It is a subject which the States have no right to touch or interfere with in any manner. It is a subject upon which the
people have intrusted them with no power.
If I am right in this, it seems to me to follow, that whether
foreigners upon their arrival in the United States shall or shall
not be compelled to pay a tax, before they will be permitted to
put their feet ashore in this land of liberty, is a question which
belongs exclusively to the general or national government.,, If
this be a correct view of the case, then it follows that, in passing the law the validity of which we"are now discussing, the
legislature of New York have exceeded their powers and authority, and have improperly trenched upon the powers of the national government, and their act is therefore void.
Let us pursue this poiit a little further.
If the legislature of the State of New York have the right
to impose atax upon foreigners arriving at the ports of New
York, then the amount of the tax is necessarily wholly within
their power and discretion. They may impose a tax of-one
dollar upon each passenger, or a tax of one thousand dollars.
It will thus be plainly perceived that they may totally prohibit the importation of foreigners into the.ports of New York,
and thus thwart "what may be considered the settled policy of
the general gov~mment'npon this subject.
Again, Congress have passed several laws in relation to passengers. They have, it is true, imposed no import duty upon
their arrival in the United States. Does not this, in effect,
amount to a declaration on the part of Congress that they shall
pay no such duty? Is it 'competent for a State legislature to
say, If Congress do not impose a duty upon passengers, they
have not legislated on the subject, - we will therefore impose
such a duty?

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

305

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Ogden.

According to this argument, if Congress think no duty should
be paid upon foreign passengers" arriving in the United States,
yet they must impose some duty, or the State legislatures may
impose such a duty as they in their discretion think proper.
Thus far my argument upon this point is that the whole
subject of the admission of foreigners into the United States,
and the terms upon which they shall be admitted, belongs, and
must belong, exclusively to the national government.
I proceed now to take another view of the case.
The la* of New York imposes a tax. It imposes a tax
upon persons brought or imported into the United States. Is
hot that an impost?
The Constitution, in express terms, prohibits the State from
passing any law .imposing duties or imposts on imports without
the consent of Congress. The precise words of this section
of the Constitution are worth attending to upon this point -:
"No State- shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports," &c.
Not upon goods or merchandise imported, but upon imports,
- upon any and every thing imported or brought into the country. And the words include men, as well as merchandise.
That the meaning of the word imports includes men as well
as things cannot, it seems to me, be denied. In common
parlance, we say, when a new manufacture is established, in
which we have had no experience, we must import our workmen from Europe, where they have experience in these matters. When we speak of the great perfection which any particular manufacture may have arrived at in a short time, we
say tfie workmen were imported from Europe.
But another clause in the Constitution throws great light
upon this subject: -"
The migration or importation of such
persons as any of the States now existing. shall think proper
to admit shall not be prohibited by Congress prior to the year
1808, but a tax or duty may be imposed on such importation
not exceeding ten dollars for each person."
I propose detaining the court for a short time by making a
few observations upon this clause of the Constitution. It is a
'limitation upon the powers of Congress. Now, a limitation of
a-power admits the existence of the power limited. Congress,
then, had by the Constitution, by the admission contained in
this clause of it, power to prohibit the migration or importation of any persons other than citizens of the United States
into the country, and they had the power, by the like admission, to impose a tax or duty upon such importation. If Coffgress had such power, whence did they derive it? What part
of the Constitution gave it to them?
26*

306

SUPREME COURT.
Pa'sienger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Ogden.

They had power to collect and lay duties upon imports.
They had power to-regulate Commerce with foreign nations,
and they had all the powers necessarily belonging to, a general national government, as it regards foreigners.
. As the limitations in that clause of the Constitution were
imposed but for'a limited time,.and as that time has long since
expired, Congress now possess 'all the powers which the Constitution gave them, subject no longer to the limitations contained in this clause, which has expired by its own limitation.
Congress have; therefore, now the power, 1. To prohibit migration of foreigners altogether.
2. To impose such an import duty upon their arrival. in the
United States as Congress in their wisdom may think proper.
This, I presume, will not and cannot be denied.
Now, if Congress have that power, it is derived either,
1. From the power to lay and collect import duties.
2. From the power of regulating commerce with foreign
nations.
3: Or from its being an attribute necessarily belonging to
the national government.
And if Congress derive the power .from any one of these
souices, their power is necessarily exclusive of any State authority upon the subject. As to infports, I have already shown
that the States are expressly prohibited by the Constitution
from laying or collecting any such duties. As.to the powei to
regulate commerce with foreign nations, I intend to endeavour
to-show, in a subsequent part of my argument, that that power
is also exclusive of the State legislatures. As to the authority
derived from the fact, that it is an attribute of the national.
government, there can be no doubt that, in that view of the
case, the State gdvernments can have no concurrent power on
the subject.
If, therefore, Congress possess the power of levying an import duty upoii persons imported or. brought into the United
States, if they have the power to prohibit the imliortation of
them altogether, no State can have such power, and the law
'of the State of New York is unconstitutional and void.
But it is said that this clause of the Constitution was only
intended! to be applicable to slaves which might be brought
into the United States. It seems to me that this argument
cannot avail the opposing counsel. BecauSe, if this be so,
then, as I have already shown that this clause -wasa limitation
upon the powers of Coigress, if that limitation extended only to
slaves, then the powers of Congress, so far as they relate to free
foreigners migrating-to the United States, were left, and now
exist, wholly unlimited, except so far as limitations may be

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

30

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Ogden.

found in the words of. the Constitution or in the nature of the
case.
But the convention intended, as the words of the iilause evidently show, that the provision should not be confined to
slaves. 3 Madison Papers, 1429.
Mr. Gouverneur Morris objected, that, as the clause now
stands, it implies that the legislature may tax freemen imported.
Colonel Mason admitted this to be so, and said "that it was
necessary, for the case of convicts, in order to prevent the introduction of them." With this explanation, the clause was
passed unanimously.
I shall here leave this point in the case.
I think I have shown that this tax is an impost, and that the
State of New York has no constitutional power to lay and collect it, without the 4ssent of Congress, and if collected, it must
be paid into the treasury of the United States.
But we were told upon the former argument, that no import
duty could be laid upon white men. I have shown that such
was not the opinion of the framers of the Constitution. But
what is this law of New York? It imposes a tax upon every
passenger brought or imported into the port of New York.
Such a tax is an impost. ,And if it be true that no impost can
be laid upon white men, by what authority does the State of
New York impose such a duty upon every passenger, white or
black, bond or free? Because we call it a tax, not an impost;
as if a change of the name can alter the nature of the thing,
.This law is not only an impost, but a regulation of commerce;- and I'propose now to inquire whether, as such, it must
not be considered as unconstitutional and void?
In discussing this question, it is not my intention to go into
i lengthened and minute consideration of the several cases
which have been heretofore decided in this court, in 4vhich the
validity of State laws has been the. subject. of decisions" here.
These cases were -so fully considered in the License cases
decided at the last term, that every member of the court must
be familiar with them. To enter now into a labored examination of them would, therefore be little less than a waste of the
time of the court.
11Congress have power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian
tribes."
What is the meaning of the word commerce in this clause df
the Constitution ? It becomes necessary to settle the meaning
of the word. Chief Justice Marshall, in the case of Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9.Wheat. 189, says, speaking of this word,-" The
counsel for the appellee would limit it to traffic, to buying and

308

SUPREME- COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Ogden.

selling, or the interchange of commodities, and do not admit
that it comprehends navigation. This would restrict a general
term, applicable to many objects, to one of its significations.
Commerce undoubtedly is traffic, but it is something more;
it is intercourse. It describes the. commercial intercourse between nations in all its branches, and is regulated by prescribing rules for carrying on that intercourse."
And in the same case, page 193, Chief Justice Marihall says,
" It has, we believe, been universally admitted, that these
words comprehend every species of commercial intercourse between the United States and foreign nations."
Commerce, then, is intercourse,and Congress have the power
of regulating that intercourse; and, as I shall contend, the exclusive power of regulating the intercourse with foreign nations. The Constitution draws a plain distinction between the
commerce with foreign nations and the commerce among the
several States. If there were no such distinction, the law
would have been differently expressed; the power to regulate tfhe commerce of the United States would have included
both.
Why is this marked distinction made in the Constitution ?
The regulation of the commerce with. foreign nations, including the. regulation of all our intercourse with them,. may, in
many instances, materially affect the relation between us and
foreign, nations. It may often, lead to war. It may become
the subject of treafies. All which considerations show that it
is a national question, from which the States must be absolutely
exclu,.ed. Not so with the power bf regulating commerce
among the States. This is a mere internal matter among ourselves, with which foreigners can have nothing to do. ! They
can know only the one government, and can do nothing with
the State governments. The power to regulate this internal
commerce is vested' in Congress, and they may exercise it or
not, as they think proper; ,and until they do. exercise it, it is
possible that the States may have power to regulate the matter
among themselves. Not so with foreign commerce. Foreign
nations know nothing of the States, and can look only to the
general government. With respect to foreign commerce; it is
essential that 'the regulations should be uniform throughout the
whole country, so that the different nations should know the
terms upon which their commerce or intercourse with this
country can be carried on.
In all cases where the right of commercial regulations comes
before this court, this distinction should never be lost sight of.
In cases of commerce among the States, if Congress do not exercise the powers given to them, it may be matter of doubt

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

30

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Ogden.

whether the State legislatures may not make regulations of the
commerce among themselves, and those regulations may be
good until Congress shall undertake to make the regulations.
And. all the cases where it has been admitted by any judge
of this court that the States have a concurrent power to make
such regulations, of commerce will be found to be of that
nature. The two leading cases are Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1, and Wilson v. The Black Bird Creek Co., 2 Peters,
245. They will both be found to be cases of internal commerce among the *States.
In the case of the City of New York v. Miln, 11 Peters)
the opinion of the court was delivered by Mr. -Justice Barbour.
He says, -"
We shall not enter into any examination of the
question whether the power to regulate commerce be or be
not exclusive of the 9tafes, because the opinion which we have
formed renders it unnecessary ;in other words, we are of opinion that the act is not a regulation of commerce, but of police;
and that, being thus considered, it was passed in the exercise
of a power which rightfully belonged to the State. - If, as
we think, it be a regulation, not of commerce, but police, then
it is not taken from the STates." (p. 132.)
In that case, the law of New York vwas considered as a part
of its system of poor laws, and was, therefore, held to be constitutional. But even in that case Judge Story dissented from
the opinion of the court, atd stated that Chief Justice Marshall
had been of opinion, upon the former argument of the case,
that the law of New York was unconstitutional.
In Judge Story's opinion, we find this paragraph (p. 161): "The result of the whole reasoning is, that whatever restrains
or prevents the introduction or importation of passengers or
goods into the country, authorized and allowed by Congress,
"whetherin the shape of a tax or other charge, or whether before or after arrival in port, interferes with the exclusive right
of Congress to regulate commerce."
And this is in strict conformity with the doctrine established
in the case of Brown v.The State of Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419.
That was also the case of an imported article from a foreign
nation, upon which the plaintiff in error had paid a duty upon
its importation. The State undertook, by law, to say that he
should not sell it without a license.
vlhe court decided that the duty required and paid upon the
importation of the article was a regulation of commerce, and
that, upon paying that duty, the importer had a right to sell the
article; else the importation of it would be of no use to him,
and he would have complied with the regulations of Congresg
to no purpose, ifi after paying the duty he could not sell the

310

$UPRLIE COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument. of Mr. Ogden.

article, which was the sole and only object of its importation.
711he court said, that, although the imported article was within the State, yet, so long as it remained in the original package
in which it was imported, it could not be considered as having become so identified with the mass of property in the State
as to subject it to the power of taxation by the State.
In support of the doctrine for which I am now contending,
I beg to refer the court to the opinion of Judge Johnson in the
case of Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 227, by which it will be
found that he takes the distinction between foreign commerce
and the commerce among the 5tates. The court declared that
the powel to regulate is exclusive, although that was a case
of collision between the State law and the law of Congress.
In the case of Brown v. The State of Maryland, the decision
of the court was substantially the same.
I contend, then, both upon principle and upon authority, that
the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations is vested
in Congress exclusively; that the States have no power to interfere with it ; that corn merce means intercourse, and that passengers are as much a part of that commerce and iiter'course as
goods or merchandise; that no State has the power of making
any regulations upon the subject, and most assuredly not of
laying and collecting an import duty upon passengers imported
or brought into the United States. 1 Tucker's Black., Appendix,
page 150; 3 Madison Papers, 1585.
. Before
I leave this point of the'case, I would call the attention of the court to the opinion of our State legislature upon
this subject, - an opinion entitled to some little weight in this
case. (Mi. Ogden here read the resolution, passed by the
legislature of the State of New York, in February, 1847.)
In the opinion, then, of the legislature of New York, passengers are a part of thp commerce of the country, which
Congress have the power to regulate, and the regulation of it
belongs to Congress by virtue of the Constitution, and the
State legislature cannot legislate on the subject. This, it
seems to me, is the plain language of this resolution. Now, I
think, taxing passengers has something to do with regulating
the commerce and intercourse between the United States and
foreign nations, and in the language of the legislature in this
resolution, that regulation "belongs, by virtue of the Constitution, to Congress."
The case of pilots has frequently been referred to as a regulation of commerce, and therefore within the powers given to
Congress; and in these cases the power of Congress has never
been held to be exclusive, but State laws are constantly passed.

JANUARY

TERM, 184-9.

311

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Ogden.

ofthat subject, and their validity has never been quiestioned.
I propose to make a few observatidns upon this subject.
The only piower which Congress can -possess over pilots must
be derived from -the power given to them to regulate commerce.
There is no express power given as to the regulation of pilots.
And unless the regulation of pilots can be considered as a regulation of commerce, it is not within the constitutional power of
Congress;
. And it may be well doubted whether the regulation of pilots
can be considered as a regulation: of commerce. Pilots are
rather a necessary aid to the successful carrying on of commerce
than a regulation of commerce itself.
A power to regulate commerce would hardly confer the
power of regulatihg ship-carpenters, and yet they are essential
to create the very means, and the only means, by which commerce can be carried on. Pilots are, it seems to me, rather to
'be considered as belonging to the port arrangements, such -as
the places where ships from different places may be'anchored,.
as to the wharfage, &c., all of which are now considered as
regulations of commerce, although the commerce of the country
may be, and often is, materially affected by them.
The regulations of commerce should be uniform throughout
the whole country. :This never can be the 'case in the regulation of pilots. Different skill and experience are required at different ports. The distahce which the pilot must conduct vessels is different at different ports; the dangers to be avoided
are more numerous and greater at some ports than'others. The
charges of pilotage must, therefore, be greater at some ports
than at others. No uniform regulations can, therefore, be made
upon the subject. The whole spirit of the Constitution is, that
the commercial reghlations' of Cofigress should be uniform
throughout the whole -country; and as it is impossible that the
regulations of pilots should be so, it affords a strong argument
.to prove that their regulation never was intended to be given
to Congress.
. Agahi, the regulation -of pilots can hardly be considered as a
regulation of foreign commerce; it is a mere local matter, confined to' particular ports and harbours, and may, therefore, be
considered as a*subject upon which the States. may legislate,
and their laws be valid, until they come in conflict with the
laws of Congress.
And this seems to have been the understanding of Congress.
At their first session under the Constitution, in August, 1789,
in "'An act for the establishment and. support of light-houses,
beacons, buoys, and public piers," we find a section declaring
that all "pilots in the bays, inlets, rivers, harbours, and ports

812

SUPREM E COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Ogden.

of the United States shall continue to be regulated in conformity with the existing laws of the States respectively wherein
such pilots may bei or with such laws as the States may respectively hereafter enact for the purpose, until further legislative provision shall.be made by Congress."
The words of this section are peculiar. Congress make no
regulations as to pilots, but leave them as they were regulated
by the States. They are to continue subject to the regulation of State laws then existing, and such State laws as may
hereafter be enacted by -the States, until further provision
to act upon the prinshall be made by Congress ; -seeming
ciple that the State laws would be valid until interfered with
by Congress.
The provision is found in an act for establishing and supporting light-houses, beacons, buoys, and public piers. The
objects of the act are local, and though intended fdr the security and safety of the commerce of the country, they cannot be
strictly called regulations of commerce. 'As to foreign commerce, no foreign nation could complain if we had no lighthouses, no beacons, or buoys. These are things for our own
advantage and convenience, by making our ports more accessible to ships 'and vessels. They are peculiarly advantageous to
the particular ports near which they are found, and might,
therefore, well be left to State logislation.
Noscitur a sociis. The provision in relation to pilots in this
law is to be judged of by the other provisions found in the
law, none of which can be considered, as commercial regulations in the sense in which the terms are used in the Constitution.
The only other law ever passed by Congress in relation to
pilots was passed on the 2d of March, 1837, which declares
that it shall and may be lawful for the master or commander
of any vessel coming into or going 'out of any port situate upon
waters which are the boundary between two States, to employ
any pilot duly authorized by the laws of either of the said
States bounded on the said waters, to pilot the said vessel to
or fhom the said port, &c.
It will be perceived, that this act does not pretend, in any
part of it, to.be a regulation of pilots. It regulates shipmasters,
if it can be called a regulation at all, and it authorizes them to
employ certain pilots; but it is no regulation of those pilots.
I have been thus particular upon the subject of pilots, because I am confident that Congress never have attempted any
regulation of them; that any uniform regulation, which is the
only regulation Congress could make on the subject, is, from
the nature of the subject, impossible ; and that the only provis-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

313

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Ogden.

ion Congress have ever pretended to make upon the, subject is
to consider them as local matters, like light-houseb,'&c., and,
therefore have left them properly to State laws.
There can be no doubt that any State may erect and maintain a light-house, may plant buoys and beacons fov the benefit
and advantage of its own ports and harbours. So may any
individual, and these, although they may be extremely useful -to
commerce, cannot be called regulations of commerce. And pilots stand upon the same footing, and are so placed by the act
of Congress of 1789.
We may say of the laws relating to pilots, as Chief Justice
Marshall says of the inspection laws of the States, in his opinion in Gibbons v. Ogden: - ".That these laws may have a
remote and considerable influence on commerce will not be denied; but that a power to regulate commaerce is the source from
which the right to pass them is derived cannot be admitted."'
There is. another clause in the Constitution which has some
bearing upon'this case, and which I shall briefly consider : "-No preference shall be, given by any regulation of commerce'
or revenue to the ports of one State over those of another."
This clause, it is true, is a limitation upon the powers of
Congress,'and is not applicable in its terms to State legislation
oirthe subject. But the words are general, and if Congress,.
who have the power of regulating the commerce of the country, and the revenue arising from that commerce, have no
power to give the preference mentioned in this clause of the
Constitution, surely a State which has no power to regulate
commerce, and hap nothing to do with the revenue derived
from it, can give no such preference.
• The intention of this clause in the Constitution evidently isi.
that the regulations of. commerce and of its revenues shall be
equal and uniform in. all the ports of the United States. It
was 'the inqluality existing in these respects in the different
ports of the United' States which, more than any thing else,
gave birth to the Constitution.
Now a very important part of. the commerce and intercourse
between the United: States and Europe is the transportation of
passengers, The passage-money received from passefigers is a
most important item in the freights carried by our merchant-.
'ships. This tax upon passengers is in effect a tax upon the shipowner. He -may, indeed, add it to the amount he charges for
the passage. If he does so, he is compelled to charge so much.
more for a passage to New York than is charged to. any other
port. The great body of our immigrants, many of whombring with them large families, cannot afford to pay an additional dollar for themselves .and each individual of their families."
27'
VOL. VII.

314

SUPREME COURT.
.assenger Cases, -Argument

of Mr. Ogden.

and they will therefore sail for other ports. The consequence is,
that the ship-owner in New York must lose the passage-money
altogether, or,he must consent to pay the dollar himself.,
The amount of this tax annually paid is much larger than is
generally supposed. By the report of the commissioners of
immigration., made on the 1st of October last, it appeals that,
from the 5th of May to the 30th of September, not quite five
months, the number of passengers, foreigners, who arrived at
New York was 101,546. For the remaining seven months
of the year they m.ay be fairly estimated at '100,000 more,
making 200,000 in a year, which is a tax upon our ship-owners
of $ 200,000 per annum.
The court will now see that these merchants have good ieason for appealing to this court for the establishment of their
constitutional right to bp put upon an equal footing with the
ship-owners in the other ports of the United States.
It is no argument against us upon this poirit to say, that some
of the other States also impose a similar tax upon passengers.
Because, if the different States have the power of imposing
this tax, the amount of it will be varied according to the discretion of the different State legislatures, which proves the
necessity that this whole matter should be exclusively'under
the regulation of Congress, in order to produce that equality
and uniformity called for by the 'Constitution.
My &rgument 'pon this point applies with much greater
force to the case of a foreign ship or vessel importing or bring- ing .passengers to this country.
Foreigners can only know us
as one nation, and certainly would have great right to complain, if compelled to pay a different rate of duty at the different
ports of the United States.
I have now stated the several grounds upon which I have
supposed the law of New Ybrk, the validity of which is the
question in this cause, to be unconstitutional and void. The
public authorities in-New York have always doubted the validity of the law. Collier's Report in January, 1842; Governor
Bouck's Message ; the act of the legislature of 1844.
These public documents show, First. That the validity of the law is considered as doubtful
by the government of New York.
Secondly. That they are ready to abide by, and to submit
to, any decision this honorable court may make' upon the
subject.
As a citizen of New York, I am proud to say that, although
there is no State in the Union whose laws have been so fiequently before this-.court as violating the Constitution, yet
there is no State which has ever shown greater respect and yen-

JANUARY TERM, 18.49.
Passeng.er Cases.-Argument of, Mr. D&vis.

eration for. the Constitution and for this honorable court, by al-ways submitting without a murmur to its decisions. The pride
of New York is, that she is a member-of this republic, - that
the.republic has a Constitutionmade and adopted -for the purpose of preserving the peace, prosperity, and happiness of the
people. She believes that on the preservation of this Constitution depends our Union, that upon-our Union depend the happiness and prosperity and the liberties of the people'of these
United States. And however, in New -York, we may differ
among ourselves.upon minor points, the greatest wish of our
hearts is that this Constitution and this Union may be per• petual.
NoRRis "V. CITY OF BOSTON.

The following is a sketch of the argument of Mr Davis,
for the defendants.
He said he rose to address the court with unaffected distrust
and diffidence in his ability to add any thing new in a case
that had been so fully investigated. The only circumstance
which inspired him with confidence was the order of the court
directing the rehearing, which he thought would have been.
more usefully executed by confiding the case to other counsel.;
but he had found it not entirely easy to pursue this course, as
the Executive of the State had manifested a wish that he"
should remain in the case.
The great-question involved was the constitutionality of the
act of Massachusetts of 1837, regulating the introduction of
alien paupers. The plaintiff's counsel alleged, substantially, 1st. That Congress has the exclusive power to regulate foreign commerce.
2d., That in a case like that of thee law of Massachusetts it is
unnecessary to prove any conflict with any law of the United
States, for the act of Massachusetts assumes to regulate foreign
commerce, which is of itself a violation of the Constitution.
3d. That the" bringing in of alien passengers is a part of
foreign commerce, and hence any attempt to regulate concerning them is a regulation of commerce.
4th. That nevertheless the law of Massachusetts does in fact
conflict with certain legislation and certain treaties of the
United States.
5th. That the law furthermore falls within certain provisions of the Constitution, which prohibit the levying of a duty
on imports, and also on tonnage.
We contend, on the other hand,
Ist. .That the power of Congress over foreign commerc~e is

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Davis.

not exclusive, but is and has at all times been exercised, both
in regard to foreign commerce and the commerce between the
States, concurrently within the territory of the State, and
that no regulation of a State within its territory has been or
can be adjudged unlawful, unless it be repugnant to or incompatible with some law of the United States.
2d. That, consequently, although alien passengers are
brought in by vessels engaged in foreign commerce, yet they
must be subject to and obey the police laws of the State,
unless such laws are in collision with laws of the United
States.
3d. That the law of Massachusetts does not conflict with
any act or treaty of the United States upon the subject of passengers.
. 4th. That it does not fall within the clause of the Constitution prohibiting the levy of duties on imports or upon tonnage, but is a police act for the regulation of paupers and pauperism.
. I shall notice all these positions, but not in the order in
which they have been stated.
First, I shall contend that the law of Massachusetts was
not made for the p'urpose of regulating foreign commerce, although it affects it so- far as is necessary in providing for the
-regulation of a class of persons connected with it, but it is in
fact an act modifying the pauper laws of the State, and designed to mitigate, in some degree, the burdens attempted to
be thrown upon us in subjecting'us to support the alien poor.
This can be made nanifest by tracing the history of our
legislation upon this subject, and the causes which have led
to it. It will appear that the Colony, Province, and State,
each in turn, exercised a.free, unrestrained-authority over paupers and pauperism.. I shall do little more than' refer the court
to some of the laws , and state in. the briefest way their provisions.
In 1639, there is an act of the Colony providing for the poor,
which evidently alludes to still earlier laws. (Ancient Charters
and Colony Laws, 173.) This act made it the duty of towns,
not only to provide for the' poor, but for all'alike, whether native inhabitants, lien sojourners, or transient persons.
In 1692, provision was made compelling the relatives of poor
persois to contribute, when able, to their support Ibid. 252..
In 1693; provision was made for the forcible removal of
paupers, not only from one town to another, but out of the
Colony; and further piovision of the like- kind was made in
1767. Ibid. 252, 662.
In 1720, the overseers of the poor were authorized and re-

JANUARY TERM

1849.

317

Passenger Cases.-Argument of.Mr. Davis.

quired to bind out hs apprentices the children of paupers. Ibid.
429.
By the statute of 1793, c. 59, §§ 15 and 17, felons, convicts, and infamous persons are denied the right of landing
in the Commonwealth, and shipmasters forbidden under penalties to bring in such.
By the statute of 1819, c. 165, masters of vessels, if required
by the overseers of the poor in any town, are obliged to give
bonds to indemnify the town for three years against 'any cost or
charge from persons brought in, who might become 'paupers,
By .the statute of 1830, c. 150, masters of vessels are required to give bonds to indemnify the towns where they may.
land alien passengers against liability for their support as paupers, unless excused from so dcoing by the overseers of the poor.
And there is.. a further provision, that, by faying five dollars
for any passenger, the claim for a bond should be commuted.
These various provisions were carried substantially into the*
Revised Statutes in. 1836.
Thus stood the law at the. end of"nearly two hundred years
from the first legislation now on record, by which it appears
that the Colony, Province, and State had.in succession asserted
an unlimited power over paupers and pauperismh. They asserted, not only the right to compel the body politic to provide for
the poor, but they made the relatives 'within certain degrees
contribute, if able; they bound out poor children, expelled from
their territory paupers which belonged elsewhere, denied to
such the right to come in, and also shut out convicts, felons,
and infamous persons. They asserted manifestly the highestprerogative over the whole subject, and the State has, down
to this time, considered its power in this respect unabridged.
They went to the extent of determining for themselves of
what and of whom their residents should consist, maintaining
this right as well after the adoption of the Federal Constitution
as before.
Abouf the year 1830, perhaps a little later, the king of England appointed 'a commission to examine into the condition
of the poor, and' to report the evidence, and a plan of relief.
By the increase of population and the introduction of machinery instead of the human hand in manufactures, the evil of
pauperism had greatly increased, and demanded some expedient
to mitigate its pressure.
This commission, after years of toil and taking an unexampled mass of evidence, reported it, with their comments
thereon. The evidence comes from magistrates, parish officers,
clergymen, &c., and discloses the most hideous details of poverty, distress, and profligacy that have ever been spread before
.27 *

.318

31 StPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Davis.

the public. It may all be found in the public' library in this
capital, but it would require a month's lab'or 'to -peruse it.
The great fact material here is, that the- commission. found
that several of the parishes had already adopted emigration as
the most sure and effectual'method of obtaining certain relief.
They had, therefore, raised money to pay the charges of shipping paupers. to- foreign lands. The commission give it as
their opinion, that this mode of disposing of paupers promised
much, and ought to be encopraged. The fruits of this policy
were soon visible among us. Indeed, such a fraudulent conspiracy to relieve themselves, not only of the obligations of humanity, but of the expense of supporting their own helpless
population, .could not remain long' concealed.' -Idiots, lunatics,
the lame, the aged and infirm, women and -children, were
thrown upon our shore destitute of every thing, and our poorhouses were filled with foreigners in this hopeless and helpless
condition.
The same plan of relief was also adopted at a later day on
the COntinent, and we seemed in a fair way to become the poorhouse of Europe. The evil has gone on increasing, until not
only the poor-houses and hospitals are full, but in Boston and
New York immense sums have been expended in mitigating
the sufferings of the alien poor and destitute,
The proof of these coming events was unmistakable farther
back than 1837i when the act of Massabhusetts now in question became a law. The State saw, not only parishes which
were insensible to the dictates of humanity and capable of
transporting their poor and destitute to unknown lands , there
to leave them to the mercy of strangers, but relatives and kindred regardless of the ties of blood, who were willing to thrust
from them the aged, the infirm, the in,sane, and the helpless,
and to place them beyond the possibility of a return.
These -were the" circumstances' which, in 1837, demanded
legislation, and the act, in our,, view, met the exigeny, and
nothing more. It secures two things -- first, a bond, to indemnify against the liability for the support of those wholly
incapable of providing for themselves; afd, secofidly, two dollars
for each and every other alien passenger. This-bond and
money
must be furnishfd ,before the' passengers are permitted
to land.
It is admitted that the provisions of the act are reasonable, sb
far as regards the class who come in formd paupe&is, but the
law in other, respects is alleged to 'be invalid. 'It was said,
.among other things', that we lay hold of a ship before she
,comes to our jurisdictfon; but this is' evidently a total misapprehension, for she must, by the terms of the ict, be within

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

819

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Davis.

our waters, in the port or harbour where the passengers are to
be landed, before she is boarded and the passengers examined.
The act is in every feature manifestly a pauper law, growing out of a pressing emergency, and although as lenient as the
circumstances would allow, yet our right to make and enforce
it is denied. We have seen that the State has exercised 'for
two hundred years the right to make pauper laws. Can she
do it now? I contend that this power is one of her attributes
of sover6ignty, which she -has never surrendered, and now has
the right to enjoy.
That she has not granted it to the United States, and that
th~y do not possess it, is obvious. And it is equally obvious
,that the States have generally exercised this power since the
adoption of the Constitution. In New York v. Miln, 11 Pet.
1441, the court say the police power of New York could not be
more appropriately exercised than, in providing against the evils
of pauperism. Also, at page. 142, they declare pauperism to be
a'moral pestilence, as much requiring protective measures as
contagion or infection. In Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16 Peters,
625, the court say the right to expel paupers and vagabonds is
undoubted. The same principle is recognized and approved
in the License Cases%5 How. 629.
These authorities, as well as the case of Holmes v. Jennison,
14 Peters, 540, place the right of the State not only to regulate,
but to expel, paupers in a very clear light. The State having
this right, has she so used it as to regulate unlawfully foreign
commerce, or has she usurped the taxing power of the United
States? The ground assumed is, that the power of Congress
to regulate commerce is exclusive, and hence the State can
make no law which affects such, commerce without regulating
it unlawfully.
This power. is not, by the terms of the grant, any,more exclusive than the power over the militia, or the right to make
bankrupt laws. Upon examination of the adjudged cases, it
will be equally manifest that the court have not so settled the
question. There are dicta which seem to look that way, and
some learned judges who have sat upon this bench have expressed themselves as satisfied with -these dicta; but there are
dicta, also, the other way, equally respectable.
The position asstimed by the counsel is, that a State law
made in the exercise of la'wful power is unconstitutional, if it
affects foreign commerce, This conclusion, I contend, cannot
be maintained.
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat- 1, is the leading case in which
this question of exclusive authority has been- agitated, and is
the case supposed to give countenance to the- idea, that the

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Davis.

power is exclusive; and yet the court manifestly studiously
avoid deciding the question.' On the contrary, they give a
construction- to the powers and laws of the States irreconcilable with such exclusive rights as are now claimed. The
court coneede,-in distinct terms, that the laws concerning pilots
and'pilotage, quarantine, health, harbours, - in short, police
laws generally, -are constitutional, though they do interfere "
With, and to some -extent regulate, commerce. They rest on
the police power of a State exercised for necessary purposes,
and are police laws, - not laws regulating foreign commerce.
It is obvious- that police and municipal laws' do and must
exist, to a great extent, and must, from the character of our
government, deal with and affect foreign commerce: , Debts
must be collected and crimes' punished; ships must be under
sanitary and harbour regulations; pilots are indispensable; in
general terms, life, property, and- personal rights must be protected. All such laws, in their application to those engaged in
foreign commerce, must affect and influence, nay, often tend to
regulate, that commerce. They cannot be executed without,
and, moreover, most of them must be State laws, and cannot
be supplied by the United States if they had power to do it.
The court saw all this when considering Gibbons v. Ogden,
and declare, in terms not to be misapprehended, that police laws
come from the acknowledged power of the State. They are,
says the chief justice, police laws, -not laws regulating commerce. The fact that they do affect commerce does not make
them -unlawful, though the influence amounts to regulation,
because they are made for other lawful purposes, and are as indispensable to the public welfare as foreign commerce.
The court, were manifestly of opinion, that health laws, harbour laws, and police laws- generally, do not conflict with the
power of the United States to regulate commerce, nor disturb
the harmony of the governments; -but both the States and the
United States may and ought to exercise their respective .powers together in the ports which are common to both.
The doctrine distinctly maintained -is, that all police laws are
constitutional unless in conflict with some law of the United
States. This opinion is fully sustained ii-the case of New
York v. Miln, 11 Peters, 1(62, and in the License Cases, 5
How. 504.
This is irreconcilable witht the proposition of the plaintiffs
counsel, that such a law may be unconstitutional without collision with a law of the United States, and proves, moreover,
that the power to regulate commerce is not exclusive.
The extent of the police powers of the State, and their
right to concurrent jurisdiction- over foreign commerce, for

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

321

Passenger Case.-Argument of Mr. Davis.

many purposes, within a State, are illustrated in-the same case in
another way, still more conclusive. The court say that police
measures maybe similar to the measures of the United States,
the forms of law may -be the -same as those employed by the
United States to regulate commerce, and yet such police acts
are not unconstitutional, unless they come in actual collision
with the laws of the United States. Thd case, therefore, of
Gibbons v. Ogden falls far short of maintaining the exclusive
power over commerce which is set up in this, case.
Thus stood the law in 1847, when the'subject came under
the consideration of the court in the License Cases, 5 Howard,
when a majority of the bench concurred in opinion, 1. That the question had not been: judicially settled.
2. That the power to regulate foreign commerce is concurrent.
3. That there neither isnor can be any unconstitutionality
in State laws regulating foreign commerce within State territory, unless such laws are in conflict with some law of Congress.
The question being thus finally disposed of, I come to the
inquiry, whether there is any law of the United States in conflict with the law of Massachusetts. The plaintiff's counsel,
allege that such conflict does exist. But before examining the
laws said to be in collision, I will ascertain, as far as I am able,
the principles upon which unconstitutional conflict rests.
The Constitution of the United States declares that the
laws of the United States shall, be supreme ; and it has been
often held, that, in case of conflict, the law of a State must
yield. But when does illegal.conflict eiist? What is the
evidence of it? State laws may be similar to those of the
United States, may act upon the same subjects and deal with
the same persons, and not be in collision. State laws may
control navigation, passengers, ship-owners, merchants, cargoes, &c., may enforce upon such civil process, criminal process, quarantine laws, health laws, pilotage laws, harbour laws,
dock and wharfage laws, &c., and yet cause no collision, no
repugnancy or incompatibility with the laws of the United
States upon the same subjects.
It is not legislation upon the same subject, or every seeming
conflict, then, that amounts to unconstitutional collision. The
rule applicable to collision is laid down with some distinctness
in 1 Story's Com. 432:- "In cases of implied limitations or
prohibitions it is not sufficient to show a possible or potential
inconvenience. There must be a plain incompatibility, a direct repugnancy, or an extreme potential inconvenience, leading to the same result."

322

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Davis.

A -law. may. be potentially inconvenient, -and yet constitutional. The system presupposes that the two governments
must work together in, the same territory, and upon the same
objects, or they cannot enjoy the functions confided to them.
The first object, therefore, is 'to harmonize their action, and
reconcile as far as possible the exercise of the powers belonging to each. The one, for example, has the care of life and
health, the other of- commerce ; but life and health cannot be
protected without controlling commerce. The object, then,
should be to' harmonize both, by not bringiiig into conflict
any laws which can be reconciled. by'a liberal and fair'interpretation of the Constitution.
Hence it is that repugnance must be direct and incompatibility plain, and hence it is that mere inconvenience is not to
be regarded, and hence it is that the rule substantially excludes
all cases of collision, except. those which cannot be reconciled.
If a navigator be arrested on board of a vessel about to sail, or
the ship be seized for debt,/it is attended with inconvenience..
If the vessel and crew are detained at quarantine, or she is
compelled to deposit ballast in a particular place, it may be.inconvenient; and so it may be to take and pay a pilot. And
yet it is manifest that, in most of these matters, the States do
and must hold the right to make and enforce laws, and the
law of collision must conform to this state of things. 'Congress neither can, nor~was it ever designed it should, provide
for all the public wants and exigencies in seaports. Hence the
necessitr of a concurrent, instead of an exclusive, jurisdiction
I
in the regulation of commerce.
With these remarks, I now come to the inquiry, whether the
acts which have been referred to are in collision with the law
of Massachusetts.
The act of 1799, c. 110, § 46, (1 Stat. at Large, 661,) exempts from.duty the apparel, personal baggage, and mechanical
implements of all passengers. The law of Massachusetts in
no respect interferes with or impedes the execution of this act.
It has no provision whatever in regard to apparel, baggage, or
tools. Where, then, is the direct repugnancy, the plain incompatibility, required by the rule?
The act of 1819, c. 46, (2 Stat. at Large, 488,) secures to
passengers ship-room, by limiting the number to two for every
five tons, and has provisions, also, in regard to ship's stores. It
requires, also, the master to report a list of the passengeris.
These are all, except the last provision, designed to secure
the comfort of the passengers while on the voyage. The lgw
of Massachusetts neither impedes, modifies, nor changes any of
the provisions. Indeed, the only thing in common to these

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

323

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Davis.

acts and the law of Massachusetts is the fact that they relate
to passengers.
This last-named act was considered in New York v. Miln,
and the law of that State declared not to be in confliot.
It seems to be supposed that a State has no power to legislate in regard to passengers ; but this is a misapprehension. Because, as I have shown, the State has the right, as it possesses
concurrent power over the subject, ' and because it does and has
exercised the power in-fegard to quarantine and health, subjecting passengers to detention and rigorous restraint. The
pauper law of Massachusbtts is as much a police act as the
health laws, and there is as urgent necessity for guarding
against thfe evils of pauperism as against contagion.
The counsel next referred generally to the naturalization
laws, leaving us to infer that the law of the State is in conflict
with all of them. This may be so, but I have not sagacity
enough to se6 in what way this conflict exists, or how the
process of naturalization has any connection with foreign com
merce, as it cannot occur until long after the subjects of it
have arrived in the country. The connection , if any, is too remote to demand notice.
It is next said to be in conflict with the treaty of 1794 with
Great Britain; but this treaty was abrogated by the war. The
treaty of 1815, in its first article, is not very dissimilar from the
fourteenth article of the treaty of 1794. It secures reciprocal
liberty of commerce to the subjects of each country; but the
terms are express, that persons doing business in the one country or the other shall be subject to the laws where they are.
The laws of Massachusetts cannot, therefore, conflict with any
rights secured by that treaty.
On the whole, there is no direct repugnancy or plain incompatibility with any law or treaty of the United 'States, and
therefore no unconstitutional conflict. Indeed, it would be
more than difficult to distinguish this law of Massaahusetts, in
its influence upon foreign commerce, from numerous police acts
of the States.
If no other objection than collision can be found against the
law of Massachusetts, it must remain in force., But other objections are raised. The right of the State to collect of the
owners of a vessel two dollars for each alien passenger isdenied, and this provision is supposed to furnish proof that the
act is a regulation of commerce. It becomes necessary, therefore, to inquire what right a State has to impose taxes, and
whether it is restrained from imposing this tax upon shipowners.
-Onthis point I find the doctrines held by the court so pre-

32

. SUPREME

COURT.

Passenger Cases.-Argdment of Mr. Davis.

cisely and clearly laid. down, that I shall do little more thancite the language of the bench. In McCulloch v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 425, the court declare, that the- power of taxation is
of vital importance to a State; that it is retained by the
States; that it is not abridged by the grant of -a similar power
to the Dnion"; that it is to be concurrently exercised; and that
these are truths which have never been denied.
In 2 Story's Com. 410, § 937, the author says, - "That the
power of taxation remains in the States, concurrent and coextensive. with that of Congress, the slightest attention to the
subject will demonstrate 'beyond controversy."
In the License Cases, 5 How. 582, the chief justice says:"The State power of taxation is concurrent with that of thegeneral government,'is equal to it, and is'not.bound to yield."
"Same.case, p. 588, Justice McLean says: - "1The power.to tax
is common to the Federal and State governments, and. it may
be exercised by each in taxing the same property; but this pro-,
duees no conflict.1
Most of these prinoiples are fully recognized in Providence
Bahk
v. Billings, 4 Peters, 561,
In McCulloch
v. Maryland, in answer to a suggestion, that
the States might abuse so unlimited a power if the law of the
United States is not supreme over it, the court say :-" This
vital power may be abused, but the Constitution of -the United
States was not intended to furnish the corrective for every
abuse of power which may be committed by the States......
The only security against abuse is found in the structure of the
government itself." Again, at page 428,- " It is admitted that
the power of taxing the people and their property is essential
to the very existence of the government, and may be legitimately exercised on the objects to which it is applicable, to the
utmost extent to which the government may choose to carry
it." Again, at page 429;-" It is obvious that the right of
taxation is an incident of sovereignty, and is coextensive with
it." The sovereignty is, therefore, the limit of the power.
In Weston v. City of Charleston, 2 Peters, 449, it is said, "Where the right to tax exists, it is a right which acknowledges no limits. It may be carried to any extent within the
jurisdiction of the State."
"The power may be exIn Providence Bank v. Billings,
ercised on any object brought within the jurisdiction."
The power, then, is vital, essential to the existence of a
State, unabridged, concurrent, coextensive with that of the
United States, coextensive with the sovereignty of the. State,
applies both to persons and property, knows no supreme law
pver it, may reach any object brought within the jurisdiction,

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

325

Prasenger Cases.-Argumeut of Mr. Davis.

and may be carried in its application to any extent te government chooses.
This summary of the power is sufficient. It .needs no commentary, being as broad, comprehensive, complete, and exclusive as can be desired; and yet we are asked if the State can
tax a ship or a passenger. There is manifestly no limitation,
except the prohibitions contained in the Constitution. The
State may tax ships, wharves, warehouses, goods, men of every
description, though engaged in commerce, unless .restrained by
positive prohibitions.
This brings me to inquire what the prohibitions are.' In art.
1, § 10, is found the following language: - 'No State shall,
without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties on
imports or exports, except, &c ...... No State shall, without
the consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage." - These
constitute the only limits to the power of taxation. It is in
all other things concurrent and equal.
The law of Massachusetts imposes no duty ether on imports or tonnage, unless a chatge upon the owner, master, or
consignee for bringing in alien passengers is a duty on imports
or a duty on tonnage. What are imports ? Are persons imports ?
In Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 437, Chief Justice Marshall,
in delivering the opinion of the court, says, -- An impost or
duty on imports is a custom or tax levied on articles brought
into the country."
Again, he says, - "1If we appeal to usage for the meaning of
the word [imports], we shall receive the same answer: they are
the articles themselves which are brought into the country."
The prohibition relates to imports and tonnage alone; imrts are the articles of merchandise brought into the country.
en are articles neither of merchandise nor tonnage, and cannot
be imports, in any known signification of the term. No onethinks of caling men imports or exports or cargo, but passengers. They are never included in the manifest, or deemed a
part of the cargo, nor are they subjected to any of the regulations which belong to imports. In New York v. Miln, '11
Peters, 136, the court say that goods are the subject of commerce; persons are not, nor do they belong to commerce.
It is supposed that the ninth section of the first article of the
Constitution gives some countenance to the opinion, that men
are imports; but this clause manifestly relates to slaves and the
foreign slave trade, and the right to tax those persons imported
was doubtless given to discourage the traffic. As soon as the.
twenty years ran out, Congress suppressed the traffic, which
indicates clearly the understanding in regard to the prorisidn.
VOL. VIL

28

326

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument' of Mr. Davis.

Moreover, the whole 'history of immigation shows clearly that
the frainers of the Constitution never anticipated interposing.
obstacles to it.
While, howover, 'it is admitted -that men are not usually
classed with imports, yet it is contended- that,, in the form of
imports, or as a tax geherafly-upon commerce, the iequirement
of two dollars for each alien passenger is unlawful. • I deny
that any such inference can be drawn, without manifest violation of the constitutional rights of the States.
If any-proposition is proved by authority piled~on authority,
it is that--the right of taxation is -coextensive with the jurisdictin of the State,- that it reaches all objects within that jurisdiction;- is uncontrolled by any superior power in the United
States, having no limitations upon.it except the prohibitions
contained in the Constitution. Every thing except duties "on,
imports and tonnage is left open for the Stactes to exercise
their authority upon it, when and-in what manner they see fit.
The right to tax every thing connected with foreign commerce save these two, things is unquestionable. This right is
the thing declared by the court to le vital, sacred, indispensable to the existence of a State, -a right which cannot be
relinquished, -a right not bound to yield to any other authority. This vital, sacred, fundamental right, the relinquishment
of which. cannot be presumed-, is not a matter to be impaired
or frittered away by construction. 'Itcannot be diminished.orinvided without .plain and manifest authority- for it from the
Constitution. The State has a right, by the terms of the
Constitution, to tax passengers,, or ship-owners, or ship-masters, or any othor.class of men, because it had this'right before
the Constitution was made, and has not granted it aw ay, or
been prohibited the, use of it. This substantive right is not
covered or embraced by the terms of the.prohibition, is a thing
separate and distinct from imports and tonnage, and was designed to be left to the use of the States, as much as land or
money at interest.
If the prohibition was intended to cover more than what
-every body understands to be imports and tonnage, if it were
intended to exempt men or property from taxation because
employed in foreign commerce, then the framers of the Constitution have utterly failed to express their meaning in intelligible language, which is highly improbable.
But if they did intend to limit the prohibition to imports and
tonnage, as the language implies, how unjust it would be to
enlarge that meaning so as to cover other things, by a forced,
unnatural construction of the language! Both justice to the
States and the sacred character of this right forbid that it
should be impaired by such a process.'

JANUARY TERM, 1849.
Passeiiger Cases. -A

327

gument of' Mr. Davis.

It seems to be supposed by the plaintiff's counsel, that, if a
tax has any bearing upon foreign commerce, this fact is proof
that the State is regulating commerce, and'has no right to
maintain such a tax.
The fact, that taxes upon men or property employed in
foreign commerce, or connected therdwith, would have a bearing upon it, and tend to regtflate it, was as well known when
the Constitution was made as at this time, and yet the right to
impoe such taxes is. manifestly-left in the States.
It is said, nevertheless, that a tax upon commerce in any
form tends just as much to regulate it as if it were upon imports or tonnage. This may be true; but as this power was
purposely left in the States to this extent; the presumption' is,'
that the makers f the Constitution intended they should have
the power to regulate commerce to .this extent.
But if the doctrine coniended for be admitted, it would utterly defeat all right on the part of a State to tax any thing connected with foreign commerce, as the tendenoy of all taxation
on such property or persons is to regulate it. Capital, ships,
warehouses, goods, men, all would, upon this principle, be
exempt, and yet we know, not.,only .by practice, but from
authority, that this unabridged right does extend to all these.
objects.
In 5 How. 576, the chief justice says: - "Undoubtedly a
State may impose a tax upon its citizens, in proportion to the
amount they are respectively worth; and the importing merchant is liable to this assessment like any other citizen, and is
chargeable according to the amount of his property, whether
it consists of money engaged, in trade, or of imported. goods
which he proposes to sell, or any other property of which he is
the owner."
Nothing can be given to the United States by construdtion,
*hich is not taken from the States. The terms of the prohibition are plain. No State shall lay a duty on imports or tonnage. Is this a denial of right to tax men or any other thing?
Is any thing reserved exclusively to the United States except
imports and tonnage? And if not, how' can a State be denied the right to its sources of revenue to the fullest extent?
We think the boundaries of jurisdiction are plainly marked
by the language of the prohibition, and that it would be an unpardonable violation of the rights of the States to cover objects
which are manifestly excluded.
But the case of Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, is much
relied on to authorize a blow at the rights of the States. ' By
this decision, two questions were raised and settled.
1. That a tax of 8 50 upon an importer, as such, for a license

M

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Ar.gumhent of Mr. Davis.

to sell, and making it penal to sell the goods imp6rted by himself before he pays such tax, is tantamount to a duty on the
goods iinported, and therefore within the prohibition of the
Constitution.
This case assumes that, if an importer is thus taxed, and
denied the right to sell before he pays the tax, he is taxed because he is an. importer and engaged in that business, and such
a tax is evasive in form, for in substance it is a tax or duty on
imports. The court take the ground, that what cannot be done
directly cannot be done indirectly, but that the act, which, when
done indirectly, is equivalent to its being done directly, must
be clearly the same thing as that which is forbidden. In other
about
Words, it must be a manifest case of evasion, -one
which there can be no reasonable doubt. The court admit the
right to tax classes of men, but. deny the iight to.tax the importer because he imports, for that is equivalent to a duty on
imports.
The decision of the first 'point comes to this and no' more.
The State may levy any tax which is not obviously a duty on
imports,-but it cannot, by indirection, do the precise thing forbidden. It seems to us very clear that men are, not imports,
nor were they ever thought of by the framers of the Constitu.tion as reserved sources of revenue to the United States.
2. The court decided that such a tax upon the importer was
a regulation of commerce, and therefore unconstitutional, The
court maintained, that the importer who paid a duty to the
United States was in fact, the purchaser of a right to sell his
goods, and they determined that this'right was secured to him
while the goods in the original bale remained in his hands, but
no longer. The right, therefore, is limited to the importer, and
to goods in the original bale in his hands.
The court were of opinion, that the right to tax imports in
the original- bale, if exercised by the States, might be carried
so far as to defeat the sale, and in that case the tax, would
regulate the disposition of the goods by frustrating the trade.
They therefore come to the conclusion, that the right to inport implied the right to sell, under the limitations which have
been stated.
This doctrine is probably pushed quite as far as the Constitirtion will bear. But passengers are not bales'of goods, or articles of commerce, nor are they brought in to sell. No trade is
defeated or frustrated by the law of Massachusetts, nor is any
commerce by water or on land regulated. The doctrine therefdre, maintained on 'the second point decided can-have no application -to the case under consideration.
There is, then, I apprehend, nothing in Brown v. Maryland

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

329

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Davis.

which tends to render the law of Massachusetts one of questionable authority. Men, I repeat, are not imports, or articles
of trade or traffic. If they are, I would ask, Who is the importer? Who trades in them? Who claims tte right to sell?
Nor is there any thing in the more general view of the ques'tion which can support the view that they are constructively
imports. Why do not the counsel contend that they are tonnage ? This has been done in the progress of this case, though
it now seems to be abandoned. It was said at one time, that
one of the acts of the United States connects passengers with
tonnage, as it forbids masters the right to bring more than two
for each five tons 'of shipping, and hence thd tax of Massachusetts was alleged to be a tonnage duty.
Nothing can illustrate more forcibly the danger ofconverting
a tax upon a ship-owner or master for bringing in passengers
into a duty on imports or a duty on tonnage than the fact,
that ingenious minds hesitate and disagree as to which.of two
classeg of things so utterly different in their character it shall
be assigned. It proves, what is' true,"that tnere is no similarity
to either, nor any congruity in the association; I trust, then,
the powe.. of the court will -not .be strained to diminish an obvious right of the State, in order to add to the increasing
power of the United States.
I will now, without pursuing this inquiry further, return to
an inquiry which I reserved in the outset. I have maintained
that the law of, Massachusetts is a police law, and although I
have argued the two-dollar assessment as a revenue measure,
yet I maintain that the police power carries with it a right to
provide for the expense of executing any law which the public
exigency demands.
Before considering the right of raising money, I will invite
the attention of the court to the rights which the States are
acknowledged to possess in regard to police authority, that we
may .see whether the law of .Massachusetts oversteps the
known limits-of that power in dealing with individuals, or
with the United States, or in raising money.
In 16 Peters, 625, it is said, -" We entertain no doubt whatever that the States, in virtue of their general police power,
possess full jurisdiction to arrest and restore runaway slaves,
and remove them from their borders, and otherwise to secure
themselves against their depredations and evil example, as they
certainly may do in cases of idlers, vagabonds, and paupers."
In 5 How. 629, License Cases, Mr. Justice Woodbury says,
"It is the undoubted and reserved power of every State as a
political body to decide .....
.who shall compose its population, who become its residents, who its citizens, who enjoy

28 *

330

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases. -Argument

of Mr. Davis.

the privileges of its laws, and be entitled to their-piotection and
favor, and what kind of business it will tolerate and protect.
And no one government, or its agents or navigators, possess
any right to make another State, against its consent, a penitentiary or hospital or poor-house farm for its wretched'outcasts,
or a receptacle for its poisons to health and instruments of
gambling and debauchery."
In New York v. Miln, 11 Peters, 141: - " There can be no
mode in which the power to regulate internal police could be
more appropriately exercised" (than in regard to paupers).
"It is the 4uty of the State to protect its citizens from this
evil; they have endeavoured to do so by passing, among other
things, the section of the law in question. We should upon
principle say that it had a right so to do." "We think it competent and as necessary for a State to provide precautionary
measures against the moral pestilence of paupers, vagabonds,
and possibly convicts, as it is to guard against physical pestilence, which may arise from unsound and infectious articles
imported, or from a ship, the crew of which may be laboring
under an infectious disease." (p. 142.)
In Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Peters, the same doctrine is maintained. -Also in Groves v. Slaughter, 15 Peters, 516,per Mr.
Justice Baldwin.
In 5 How.' 629, Licbnse Cases, Mr. Justice Woodbury says,
- "Who does not know that slaves [for sale] have been prohibited admittance by many of our States, ,whether coming from
their neighbours or from abroad? And which of them [the
States] cannot forbid their soil from being polluted by,incendiaries and felons from any quarter ?"
The constitutions of Kentucky,- Mississippi, Alabama, Missouri, Arkansas, - all States admitted by the acts of Codgress to the Union,- have provisions in their constitutions
authorizing the legislatures to exclude slaves brought in for sale
from other places. Nearly all the Slave States have laws upon
this subject, forbidding the introduction of slaves as merchandise under penalties. The Free States go farther, and, so do
some of the Slave States, and emancipate the slaves thus
brought in in violation of law. There have been, and probably now are, laws, in force raising a revenue out of the sale of
negroes brought from one State to another. An account of
most of these constitutions and laws may be found in Groves
v. Slaughter, 15 Peters, Appendix, 75.
A particular and even minute examination of the provisions
of these acts, and the power claimed by the States on this
head, might be both useful and instructive; but I have no time
to do more than invite the attention of the court to the subject, and make a few very obvious suggestions.

JANUARY TERM,. 1849.

88

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Davis.

If they may, as these authorities certainly authorize theito do, exclude from their territory convicts, felons, vagabonds,
paupers, and slaves, and if, as the Slave States claim, they may
exclude and expel free negroes without violating the commercial powers of the United States, may they not manifestly exercise the lesser power of regulating the admission of any of
these or any other classes of persons, and may they not prescribe the conditions upon which they shall be permitted to
come in? If they may shut out or expel, does it not follow
that the power to do so implies the power to make conditions?
Yet this is all that Massachusetts does. She says to shipmasters, If you will bring among us the insane, the imbecile,
the infirm, and such as are incapable of providing for themselves, I will receive even these. I will permit those sent from
the poor-houses of Europe to find a refuge here, but you shall
indemnify me to some extent for the expense which will be
incurred. You shall in one class of cases give bonds, in
another pay a very moderate sum of money. I make this a
condition upon which I open my territory to you.
I am aware that the regulations -to vhich I have referred in
regard to slaves have been considered regulations of police, and
not regulations of commerce, although slaves are held and
treated as property, being bought and sold like merchandise.
If slavery can upon this ground be withdrawn from the commercial power of the United States, and committed exclusively
to the States, then, I ask, how caii those who .entertain this
opinion hesitate for a moment in regard to paupers and pauperism, which in no respect belong to trade, traffic, or commerce,
but are manifestly subjects for police'regulation?" How, in a
matter so clear, can the power and right of the State to regulate be doubted?
The law of Massachusetts has no reference whatever to foreign commerce, except as the instrument employed to inflict an
injury upon the State. It is the avenue through which these
persons are introduced, and is controlled just so far as is necessary to mitigate the evil and make it endurable, but no
farther. Can we not do this? Is ou right doubted and denied? Then I ask those who concede the power to enforce
penalties for a violation of non-intercourse laws in regard to
slavery, and the zight to raise revenue when sales are made of
slaves from one State in another, on what ground these laws
can be sustained. If the law of Massachusetts comes within
the wide grasp of the commercial power of the United States,
which goes, not bnly to foreign, but to commerce between the
States, how are such laws to escape? How have they escaped
hitherto? Have we no right to control the mercenary ship-

332

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr.-Davis.

pers, who, stimulated by the hope of gain, are struggling to
empty both the prisons and poor-houses of Europe ripn us?
I have read the language .of this bench, in which they concede
the right; and declare it to be our duty, to exercise our police
power. by protective and preventive, measures. We are warned
that it is as much our duty to provide against the moral pestilence of pauperism as against infection. We have not, overstepped this boundary a hair's breadth; on the contrary, we
have not come fully .up to the advice,'for we do not shut out
the pestilence.
What kind of measures are we authorized to adopt? We
may, under the authority and sanction of this court, determine
who shall reside with us; we may shut out or expel vagabonds
and paupers,; we may guard against moral and physical pestilence; we may protect life, health, and property; we may stop
the approach of that foreign commerce which brings contagion;
we may say to a ship-master, You shall take a pilot, - you
shall anchor here, and deposit your ballast there. In a word,
we may give as much direction to commerce as is necessary to
accomplish these objects
This is what we may do, - it is what is conceded to us by
the highest authority. When we exact bonds of indemnity
for lunatics, paupers, aged and infirm persons, and those incapable of supporting themselves, is it doing more than to protect ourselves by very reasonable measures? When we exact
of masters two. dollars 'for each alien brought in, to be expended in relieving these alien. paupers, whom, if we receive,
we must support, is this a measure outside of what is r'ecommended'?
How are we met when we attempt to exercise the power
conceded to us? If we attempt to.meet pauperism in the'great
highway of its introduction, we are rebuked for regulating foreign commerce, although every body can-see that, if this privilege be denied to us, we 'can take no effective measures to prevent its introduction; for we must see the persons and know
their condition before we can decide what is expedient. Moreover, nothing can be effectual that is not felt by those who are
chiefly instrumental in the introduction of such persons.
We may protect ourselves, say the court ;"but when, how,
where? 'These are pregnant inquiries. Can we deal with.
paupers and pauperism as with contagion or infection?: Can
we hold those who bring the calamity -upon us accountable'?
Can we protect ourselves as we do against the dangers of gunpowder and explosive articles, which put in peril life and propert'y? We lay the burden of protective measures upon those
-who bring in such merchandise or such diseases.

JANUARY TERM,, 1849.
Pa~ssenger Cases.-Argument of

Xr. DAv.

What can a State do to avert or prevent, After the paupers
and vagabonds are landed and mixed with the population?
Such an exercise of the power conceded to us would be barren
and useless. We must-meet it on shipboard, as we do disease
and dangerous merchandise,. There we can put our hands
upon the lunatics, idiots, aged and infirm paupers, &c. There
we can learn what the ship-owner, the master; and the agents
for emigration are about. There we can detect, their conspiracy with the parishes of Europe to transfer their pobr and their
culprits to this country, to poison our morals and increase our
burdens. There is the place, and the only place, to apply the:
corrective, where the evidence can lead to no mistake.
If we cannot meet the evil here, and regulate it here, the
power to expel and the power to prevent are empty and worth.
less. The result will be, that ship-masters and traffickers in
emigration can and will force upon us paupers, vagabonds,
felons, and infamous persons, though we have an admitted
power to expel them.
The Constitution was never designed to work out such results, -results which are as injurious to the United States as
they are to the States. If we cannot meet and control by suitable -regulations the introduction of such persons, on what principle can the laws expelling or forbidding the introduction of
free negroes be sustained? Such laws exist, and I apprehend
it will be found difficult to sustain them on the ground of color
alone.
But I have dwelt, perhaps, sufficiently on this question of
power to admit or deny to persons the right to live among us.
A still more important inquiry, though secondary in principle,
ari~ses as to the power to exact two dollars for each alien, as a
condition upon which he may come to abide here? I contend that this feature of the law (although, in reply to the
arguments of counsel, it has been treated as a revenue -measure) is, in fact, strictly a police measure.
The counsel deny that the State has a right to take any
money in execution of the law. I trust we have vindicated
the right, as belonging to the reserved power of the State to tax
whatever is within its territory; but whether we have or not,
there can be little doubt that police laws carry with them the
inherent right to raise in some form sufficient funds to execute
the law.
It is upon this ground that fees are paid to pilots, and that
masters are compelled, to pay, whether they take a pilot or not.
It is on this ground that ship-owners are obliged to pay the
expenses, often large, of quarantine and health laws. It is on
this grgund that ballast laws and harbour laws are enforoed

334

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Davis..

All such acts subject the party, either to expense or to what is
equivalent.

These police acts all stand on -the firm basis of acknowledged right. The authority of a State to maintain and enforce them is admitted. They are mostly precautionary measures, found necessary for the public welfare. The principle
running through' them-all is, that those who give occasion to
resort to corrective legislation must bear the expense. It may
be a great misfortune ta have contagion on board- of a Vessel;
butthose who sail her bring it in, and must bear the expense
of the measures necessary to preserve the public health. This
right goes, not only to the requirement of money, but to the
destruction of property, when safety demands it. This principle is inherent in the police system, and if it were not, -if the
expense of executing such laws could not be exacted, - they
could not be executed at all. The State manifestly ought not.
to be required to pay pilots, or for the expense of quarantine.
Is there any well-founded distinction between this-mode of
employing police power and that adopted' by Massachusetts?
Is not protection against paupers just as necessary and as completely police in its character as the preservation of health ?
Let us look attentively-at the law of Massachusetts in this
-particular. It fianifestly cannot be executed without expense. Officers, boats, and boatmen are necessary, for vessels
must be boarded. The- passengers must b6 examined, and
bonds, in some cases, required. These are admitted to be appropriate measures, but they 'cannot be executed without
money. Those who can give no bonds must be sent back,
and this is attended with large expenses.
It is obvious that the amount of expense can neither be foreseen nor accurately estimated. What rule. could, under such
circumstances, be adopted for raising funds? The legislature,
being left at discretion, thought, in the then existing state of
things, a scale equal to two dollars each for such aliens as gave
no bonds would be adequate to the exigency; and accordingly
required the master to pay that much. And the Supreme
Court of Massachusetts say, that it little more than covered the
actual expense at the time this suit was instituted. There has
since been a great increase of the number of aliens arriving annually in Massachusetts, and this fact is employed to lead the
court to erroneous conclusions. We believe, however, the case
is to be decided by the record, and if so; it will be seen that.
the redord does not object to the amount of money raised, but
to, the right to raise any. The objection is to the power of the
State to demand any. We say we have a right to enough'to
meet all expenses, at least, under any.view of. constitutional

JANUARY

TERM. 1849.

335

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Davis.

power which may be taken,'and that an excess cannot be
noticed by the court unless the fact appears upon the record.
I have now chiefly gone over the material considerations
connected with this case, and feel deeply conscious that I have
but too imperfectly discharged the duty imposed upon me. I
will, however, briefly recapitulate the positions which have
been assumed, that the court may, at a glance, see in connection the grounds upon which we stand.
1st. I have maintained that the-law of Massachusetts is a
police act for the regulation of paupers and pauperism.
2d. That theState has a right to make such laws, which are
but a modification of a system which has been maintained by
her people for two hundred years, who have and do claim the
right of unqualified sovereignty in this particular.
3d. That although the Constitution givesto- Congress the
power to regulate foreign commerce, yet 'this is 'not an exclusive but a concurrent power, and that, consequently, the State
may, within its own limits, regulate foreign commerce, provided it does not make laws for that purpose which are repugnant
to the laws of the United States.
4th. That no such conflict or-repugnancy does exist between
the law of Massachusetts and any law of the United States,
and therefore the law of Massachusetts ;s valid.
5th. That two.views might be taken of that provision of the
law which required the master to pay after the rate of two dollars each for all alien passengers brought into port and landed.
. First, the counsel for the plaintiff maintains that it is a tax
for revenue, and as such is a regulation of commerce. We
meet them on this ground by saying, that the provision can be
and is maintained under the taxing power of the State, which,
being concurrent and coextensive with that of the United
States, and equal to it, necessarily confers the right to tax
navigators, owners, passengers, or any other dlass of persons
engaged in commerce, unless the State is, restrained by the prohibitions in the Constitution; that these are limited to dutieson imports and tonnage; that men are neither the one nor the
other, -&Fare they the subjects of trade and commerce, as they
are not bought, or sold, or brought into the country by any one
for the purposes of trade. They are, therefore, excluded from
the prohibitions, and are left to the State as a resource of\revenue, and may be taxed.
The other view follows out the principle upon which we
start, namely, that the law is strictly.a police act made to-correct an existing and growing evil, and stands upon the same
basis as the quarantine and health laws of the States. In looking at-li esubject in this aspect, we contended that the States

336

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Davis.

do, and always have, exercised an extensive concurrent jurisdiction over foreign commerce, and those employed in it;
that the laws of the States which relate to shipping, wharves,
docks, piers, harbours, and the men .employed in foreign commerce, are innumerable, and, as was well said by Mr. Justice
Catron, so numerous and diversified that Congress could not
supply them in a century. I said that hence the necessity of
a con/current exercise of the power over foreign commerce was
apparent. Our system, as a whole, is complicated; two governments spread over the same territory, but for different purposes, must, impinge upon each other occasionally. But the
day has gone by when we need feel any alarm from the
strength of individual States. Virginia once held a twelfth of
the political power in the Senate ; now, she holds but a thirtieth, and her relative importance to the Union has waned beyond tiat proportion. The States, at every advance of the
power and strength of the Union by an increase of the, members, of the confederacy, -lose something of their relative importance~and comparative strength. They go backward in the
pr6cess, while the confederacy goes forward. This is a warn-'
ing to us to take nothing from the power of the States to add
to the.power of the Union, for in the States lies the strength
of the Union. This Federal* government is wholly incapable
of managing the great and complicated affairs of this widespread country. It cannot -legislate for the local wants of
Maine and Texas. These are supplied by the local legislatures
of the States, whose powers are so great, so diversified, and so
comprehensive, that, if this government were suspended in its
operations, our persons and property would remain secure.
Justice would be administered, and good order just as well preserved as it is now. The only material derangement would be
in the foreign trade and commerce. It is manifest that our
strength, and the durability of our system, lie in the federative
principle, - in the organization of States, whose powers embrace every thing except a very few national objects. The
limitation of this government to such objects alone gives to it
its strength and usefulness, and the .most unwise, if not the
most fatal, course it can take will be to arrogate to itself the
power of the States, by taking from them what they have been
accustomed to enjoy through the whole Federal history. The
counsel say the power over foreign commerce is exclusive,,
and no doubt this doctrine extends also to commerce between
the States. Commerce consists of every thing belonging to
trade and navigation. It is manifest, however, that the States
have managed,. controlled, and regulated at all times nine
tenths of this intercourse. Their laws prevail, not only in the

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

337

Passenger Cases.-Argumeut of Mr. W Hall.

ports, harbours, cities, &c., but I know of no attempt on the
part of the United States to regulate in any way the trade
between New Hampshire, Vermont, Rhode Island, and Massachusetts, or that between New Jersey, Connecticut, and New
York. The great markets draw their daily supplies from the
neighbourmg States, which in turn supply their wants from
those markets. Hitherto the United States have wisely left all
these things undisturbed in the hands of the States, but if ever
a contest growgup concerning this power, the decision must be
that it is concurrent, as the United States are utterly mcompetent to supply the necessary legislation. This is sufficiently
manifest, if we take this District of Columbia as an example
of the capacity and ability of Congress to administer to local
wants.
Such are the grounds upon which I have endeavoured to
place the merits of the questions involved. We are opposed
at every step, and whatever position we assume, it is alleged
to be within the supposed mischief complained of. We are
denied the right to board a vessel for the purpose of examining
the passengers. We were always till now denied by the counsel the right to exact, in any case, a bond of indemnity for alien
paupers, and as a bond is a contingent "liability to pay money,
it is difficult to see how it can be lawful, though it is now conceded to be so, while a claim for money is denounced 'sunlawful. The one right stands upon no better foundation than
the other.
We are denied the right to demand money for any purpose.
We can do none of these things without regulating unlawfully
foreign commerce. We cannot meet and correct the evil of
pauperism. England, Ireland, and Germany may empty their
poor-houses upon us, and compel us to assume their burdens
and to perform their duties to humanity, because we are passive, powerless instruments in their hands.
We do not believe that the States are thus shorn of -their
authority, or that the Constitution of the United States was
ever designed to cover such broad ground. and therefore we.
feel confident that the law of Massachusetts is constitutional.
SmiTH v. Tuni.
Mr Willis Hall, for the defendant in error.
On the former argument of this cause, the distinguished
counsel who will conclude this discussion illustrated it by supposing a citizen of the Umted States coming from Charleston
by water to arrive in the harbour of New York, it may be a
member of Congress, on his way to discharge his legislative
VOL. VI.
29

338

SUPREME

COURT.

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. W. Hall.

functions in the Capitol, or it may be one of this honorable
court, proceeding to his seat in this august tribunal. His progress is arrested, and he is not allowed to proceed until, he has
paid a dollar to an official of the State or city of New York.
This is true. Nor is this citizen allowed to enter the city at
all, if infected with the yellow-fever or any other infectious
disease. And if he approaches the city by land, he will not
be allowed to enter the ferry-boat at Jersey City until he has
paid the toll.
It would be a truer illustration to tuppose a citizen 'or an
alien, -no matter whom, the President of the United States or
the humblest individual that ever entered the harbour, -any
person capable of being the vehicle of infectious disease, -to
approach our city, bringing infection, bearing death to thousands, - an approach more dreadful than that of an invading
army He Is repelled, -justly repelled, - by the express authority of the law of nations. (Vattel, Book 2, ch. 9, § 123.)
By whom is he-repelled ? By the Federal government?
Under what c'ause of -he Constitution? Under which of its
powers ? Uncier its commercial power ? -A
traffic in. contagion I a fariff ujon disease I Under its war power ) -A
war
with the king of terrorsi No. The State, and the State
alone, has the power, and alone is charged with the. duty, of
repelling disease, and of guarding its confines from the entrance of whatever might .njure its citizens.
To turn away the stranger to perish was uncivilized and unchristian, but long experience proved that it was also unsafe.
Men thus desperately situated would find means to communicate with their friends on shore, and thus the infection would
be propagated in spite of all efforts at preventibn.
The perception of this necessity, imicreasing wealth,, a better civilization, and a larger infusion of the Christian maxim,
"Do as you would be done by," at length erected a hospital
on the coast, in connection with the quarantine, for the exclusive use of all persons entering our harbour from the sea, until
they can safely be permitted to enter our thronged city
How should the expenses of the quarantine and its appurtenances be defrayed? By the passenger, or by the State ? The
State did not invite. the stranger to her shores. He did not
come for her benefit. The misfortune which has fallen upon
or- threatens him is- not of her procunig. Why should shedivide the evil with him '
It'is eminently proper that the passenger should pay all reasonable and proper expenses. He receives all the direct benefit, and the maxim applies, " Qur. sentit commodum debit et
sentire-onus." Here the State is indirectly benefited. So it

JANUARY TERM, 1849.
Passenger Cases. -Argument

339

of Mr. W Hall.

is by a turnpike, but the traveller, who receives the direct
benefit, pays the toll. So in Europe it is supposed that the
safety of society requires the adoption of a law in every nation that no one shall travel through the territory without a
passport, but the traveller, and not the State, pays for the passport.. The State is under no obligation to permit the passenger to enter her territory at all. Nothing can be more reasonable, therefore, than that she should make it the condition of
his admission, that- he should pay all the expenses which his
admission occasions.
The record in this case shows, that, some time in 1841, the
plaintiff, as master of the ship Henry Bliss, brought into the:
port of New York, from Liverpool, a foreign port, and landed,
two hundred and ninety-five steerage passengers.
1 Revised Statutes, p. 436, § 7, requires "the health-commissioner of the port of New York to demand, and, in case -of
refusal or neglect to pay, to sue for and recover, in his name of
office, the following sums, from the master of every vessel that
shall arrive in the port of New York, viz. - For the master
and each cabin passenger in a vessel arriving from a foreign
port, one dollar and fifty cents. For each steerage passenger,
mate, sailor, or mariner, one dollar."
The defendant, as health-commissioner, demanded of the
plaintiff, as master, &c., the sum of two hundrtd and ninetyfive dollars for the use of the quarantine, for that number of
steerage passengers brought by him in his vessel as aforesaid.
The master refused to pay, and the health-commissioner sued,
as required by the statute.
The action is debt on the statute. The master demurred,
on the ground that the State law is contrary to the Constitution of the United States, and void.
The Supreme Court of New York overruled the demurrer,
denying that the State law is contrary to the Constitution of
the United States, and declaring that the principle involved is
essentially the same as that involved in the case of New York
v. Miln, 11 Peters, decided by this court in favor of the State
law
The master appealed from this decision to the Court of Errors, the highest court in our State, and that court unanimously affirmed the decision of the Supreme Court. From that
court the master has appealed to this high tribunal, and the only
specification which he makes of the unconstitutionality which
he alleges against the State law is, that it is a regulation of
commerce over which the State has no jurisdiction.
This cause has already been once elaborately argued before
the court. Cases ivolving analogous principles have since

SUPREME COURT
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. W HaIl.

been fully discussed by very eminent counsel. This re-argument which has been ordered admonishes me that the case
itself has been thoroughly investigated by the court, which,
after viewing it in every aspect, L- the light of all the arguments which have been suggested, still finds itself perplexed
with doubt and surrounded with difficulties.
Under these circumstances, far abler counsel might well despair of being able to present a new view of the case, or a new
argument, but if I cannot hope to enlighten, I will promise at
least not to detain the court longer than is necessary to run
rapidly over the brief which I have prepared.
1. Our quarantine, as now established, rests upon two laws,
both passed on the same day, both having a common origin,
both made with obvious reference to each other, although by
different legislatures, and both forming m fact but one law.,
The first was passed by the State on the 27th of February,
1799. The second was enacted by the Federal government
on the same 'day To be understood, they must be collated
and traced historically
Far removed from danger, we now coolly discuss theprovisions of laws made in the very agony of fear. We must retrace
our steps, we must catch the spirit of the times before we
can understand or appreciate the various provisions of those
laws.
The State law is the one establishing the quarantine and
marine hospital at Staten Island, and which adopts the provision as to passengers substantially as it now exists.
The law which in these days of State rights is sought to be
overthrown, as going too- far in asserting the s6parate existence
of the States, was passed in the heyday of Federalism and
consolidation. It was passed by a Federal legislature, a Federal council of revision, and signed by John Jay, as Governor.
If it is obnoxious to the objections-now urged against it, the
objectionable clauses have not crept in through any oversight
or inadvertence on the part of its fiamers. No law was ever
better considered, both as to its efficiency for the purpose intended, and as to its - collision with any law of the Umted
States.
This obnoxious law was reported by a joint special committee, of which Aaron Burr was a member and De Witt Clinton
was chairman. For ten years prior, the yellow-fever had raged
almost annually in the city, and annual laws were passed to
resist it. The wit of man was exhausted, but in vain. Never
did- the pestilence rage more violently than in the summer of
1798. The State was in despair. The rising hopes of the
metropolis began to fade. The opinion was gaining ground,

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

341

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. W Hall.

that the cause of this annual disease was indigenous, and that
all precautions against its importation were useless. But the
leading spirits of that day were unwilling to give up the city
without a final desperate effort. The havoc in the summer
of 1798 is represented as terrific. The whole country was
roused. A cordon sanitasre was thrown around the city
Governor 1Mfflfin of Pennsylvania- proclaimed a non-mtercourse
between New York and Philadelphia. This may be thought
to conflict strangely with the doctrine, that the Federal government alone has jurisdiction of commerce between the States,
but it may serve as an illustration that the police laws of the
States are paramount that when men are trembling for their
lives, no commercial regulations can oppose a moment's obstacle. Fasts were proclaimed in Connecticut and in the neighbouring cities, and yrhen the pestilence had subsided, thanksgivings were proclaimed in this and the neighbouring States.
Governor Jay called the attention of the legislature to the subject in his message, and they responded by appointing a joint
special committee of the Senate and Assembly, at the head of
which they placed De Witt Clinton, then a senator from the
city of New York, just commencing that glorious career which
has since rendered his name immortal. This act of raising a special joint committee of the two houses is as rare, and almost as
significant of great danger impending over the republic, as that
of appointing a dictator in ancient Rome, This joint committee reported the law of 1799 as a supplement to the law of
1798. This law contemplated, by an express provision, that
the aid of the United Statps should be sought as far as deemednecessary, and another provision of the law imposed a light
charge upon passengers, for the purpose of supporting the establishment.
The system then established has continued without material
variation to this day It seems to have had two objects in
view 1st. To cut off completely all intercourse between persons
under quarantine and the city
To effect this, the law required that the quarantine should
be removed from Governor's Island, which was within three
quarters of a mile of the city, to Staten Island, which was
mQre than nine miles distant. It also required a plot of forty
acres of ground to be purchased, and a wall to be thrown
around it as high and impassable as that of a state prison, that
no one might enter or escape without the permission of the
health-officer. It also directed that a marine hospital should
be built within the wall, and adequate accommodations prepared
for all who should be sent to quarantine.

29 *

342

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. W Hall.

2d. The second object of the law was to cut off all communication between the vessel and goods, and the city.'
To do this, they must put an end to the practice of suspected
vessels breaking bulk at the wharves. They doubted their
constitutional right thus to interfere with the landing of goods.
They were puritanically scrupulous as to their federal duties.
But neither Jay, nor Clinton, nor Burr, ever doubted their entire right over persons, either to prohibit their landing or to
prescribe such conditions as they saw fit.
To obviate this constitutional difficulty as to their interfering with the landing of goods, they determined to apply to the
Federal government. Accordingly, a clause was inlroduced
into the law directing the Governor to make the application if
he saw fit. This was the, origin of the Federal- law The
court will perceive that it is directly connected with the State
law, and obviously made with reference -to it. Governor- Jay
had already applied to the Federal government. He induced
his friend, John 'Adams, to advert to the subject as follows, in
his message of December 8th, 1798 "While, with reverence and resignation, we contemplate the
dispensations of Divine Providence in the alarming and de,structive pestilence with which several of our cities and towns
have been visited, there is cause for gratitude and mutual congratulations that the malady has disappeared, and that we are
again permitted to assemble in safety at the seat of government for the discharge of our important duties. -But when we
reflect that this fatal disorder has, within a few years, made repeated ravages in some of our principal seapoTts, and with increased malignancy, and when we consider the magnitude of
the evils arising from the interruption of public and private
business, whereby the national interests are deeply affected, I
think it my duty- to invite the legislature of the Union to.examine the expediency of establishing suitable regulations in aid
of the health laws of the respective States."
In the response, which was then customary, from the Senate,
they reply to. this recommendation as follows "Sympathy for the sufferings of our fellow-creatures from
disease, and the important interests of the Union, demand of
the national legislation a ready co5peration with the State governmentsin the use of such means as seem best calculated to
prevent the return of this fatal calamity,"
Senate Journal,
Thus it appears that neither the President not the Senate
'cbntemplated the establishment of a complete system, but
mcrely a law auxiliary to the State systems. Of course it became necessary to examine the State systems, to see what aid

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

34

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. W Hall.

was required, and especially the New York system, with special
reference to which this legislation was called for.
In compliance with this recommendation of the President,
Congress passed the law of the 25th of February, 1799.
This law begins by requiring the collectors and revenue-officels to observe the restrictions imposed upon vessels by the
State health laws, and to aid in their execution. It next provides for landing -goods elsewhere than at the wharves of a
city It then require's the parties interested to pay for storage
of goods "landed elsewhere," &c.
Of this law it is to be observed,
1st. That it confines itself entirely to goods, over which it
vas supposed under its. aommercial- powers and its exclusive
right to collect duties) it must exercise.an exclusive control.
2d. That it providek no means of supporting the quarantine.
This is a universal charge throughout Europe wherever quarantines are established.
This was not an oversight, for the law provides for the expenses of purifying and storing goods, but says nothing of the
expenses of purifying, healing, and maintaining passengers.
This omission is fully accounted for by the/fact, that all the
State laws, and especially the laws of New York, had already
provided for the general expenses of the quarantine, and. Congress had knowledge of those lvs, and was satisfied with
them. Another inference from/he omission of this essential
provision is, that Congress doubted its power to lay a tonnage
or other duty for any such purpose. It certainly has no such
power except under the general welfare clause, which was then
stoutly denied by a party which, two years afterwards, gamed
the ascendency, which it has subsequently maintained.
3d. A third observation is, that it was passed on the same
day with the State law which suggested to the governor the
propriety of calling on the Federal -government for aid, and the
perfect understanding which existed at that time between' the
two governments leaves no room to doubt that it was passed
it was made
mainly at the instigation of Governor Jay, -that
especially with reference to the New York law, - that the two
to be understood they
laws form, in fact, but one, -that
must be read together, - that the Federal law contains not
only a general, but a particular sanction of every section m the
State law"
In reliance upon these two laws thus established, New York
has gone to great expense nr forming an adequate establishment
for our harbour,.- one which has protected the city since its
complete establishment in 1805. Of its efficiency, a distinguished physician of New Orleans thus speaks - "1If the dis-

844

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argumentof Mr. W HaIL

ease is not communicable by infection, how can we account
for the fact thatih, a few years five physicians, health-officers
for the quarantine of New York, have fallen victims to it,
-while there has not been a case known in that city for twentytwo years? "
From .the foregoing facts another conclusion arises worth
noting. New York has acted in good faith. Under color of
police regulations, she has not attempted to regulate commerce.
In her legislation, she has had no object in view but protection from disease.
II. The charge which the State, by her law, exacts from
passengers arriving in the port of New York to support her
quarantine, is merely a common-law toll, and may be defended
on the same principles as the ferriage from Staten Island to
the city. All the rules of a toll apply to it.
1st. It is established by the State for the. support of work
done for the public good, to be paid by those only who are
especially benefited by it. 1 Mod. 474, Cro. Eliz. 711.
2d. It is- supported by a good consideration, which is necessary to a toll. 2 Wilson, 296, 4 Taunt. 520, 10 Barn. &
Cres. 508.
Those who do not go to the hospital receive a consideration,
as well as those who do. The probability of advantage is as
good a consideration as the actual enjoyment of the consideration.
Ramsgate harbour is supported by a toll upon all Vessels,
whether they enter or not, which come into a situation from
which they would be compelled to seek refuge there in case of
a storm. 3 Win. Bl. 714.
If a port of refuge is a proper subject of toll at a point where
it becomes essential in case of a storm, much more is a hospital
of refuge, at a point, where there is peculiar danger of disease,
and when, without it, disease would be death.
This principle of charging those who receive no actual benefitis very common. It is sufficient to instance pilotage. It is
part of every system of pilotage, that, if a pilot offers, the vessel
must pay pilotage whether she receives or rejects him.
3d. There is an essential difference between a toll and a tax.
Taw' comes from a word that means the arrangement of the
items of the public account. It has long since come to mean
the charge which the government exacts of its citizens for its
support. A tax is public, a toll private. A toll rests upon a
good consideration. A tax is irrespective of consideration, it
rests upon the authority of g9vernment alone, it is as imperative in a bad government as a good. That the distinction is a
sibstanial one appears from the fact, that in England a toll

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

345

Vassenger Cases.-Argument of-Mr. W. Ha1L

may be granted by the kmg,.but a tax can be levied only by
an act of Parliament. Cro. Eliz. 559.3Lev. 424,2Mod. 143,
4 ib. 323.
In this respec, this case differs from the Massachusetts case,
which was argued at -the last term, and is About to be re-argued.
There the two dollars exacted of the passenger for the benefit
of the almshouse is applied to a purpose in which the passenger
has no particular interest. It might as well have been applied
to any other, or be paid at once into the treasury of the State,
for its use for all purposes. It is, therefore a tax, and rests
upon the authority of government alone, buf for the New York
charge there isa fair equivalent, -it rests upon a private consideration.
HI. In all ports, quarantine (including lazarettos) is now
one of the established charges. It is of modern origin. -None
prior to the plague in Marseilles in 1729. Mcdulloch's Diet.,
4Art. Quarantine, Howard on Lazarettos, passm.
The charge in England as much higher than it is here, indeed, the charge here is less than in any other commercial nation. The necessity of these establishments is now universally
admitted by all disinterested persons.
The laws relating to qiantine in all nations are usuaUy
classed among mumcipal -egulations. They are so in France.
(See Dict. de Jurisprudence, Arts. AutoritJ Municzpale, and
Salubriti Publique) They are so in England. Evans, in
Ins collection of statutes, places-them among police and criminal laws. -(6 EvanEs Statutes-142.)
For convenience, quarantine charges in England are collected
at the custom-house, but they are carried to the consolidated
fund. (45 Geo. III. a. 10, § 7 ) This fund is devoted to, the
support of the king's household and the civil expenses of the
internal government. 1 Bl. Com. 331.
They are so also in Denmark. A remarkable illustration of
this fact appears n the recent discussion of the "Sound dues."
In a communication on the subject from the Secretary of State,(the distinguished counsel who concludes this argument,) attaqhed to President Tyler's inaugural message of June, 1841,
the Sound dues were complained of as unreasonable. When
the territory on both sides of the Sound (it is said) belonged to
Denmark, there may have been some foundation for the charge;
but the territory on the north of the Sound has, for several
centuries, been an independent nation. There is, therefore, no
longer a pretext for the exaction. The distinguished counsel
admitted that the port charges which arose n consequence of
being compelled to go into port to pay the dues were properly
payable, for they rested upon an equivalent- By turning-to

8"6

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. W Hall.

our own State papers (2 Com. and Nay. 144), it will be seen
that one of these port charges is for quarantine.
Again, all the maritime States of the Union have conisidered
quarantines as an internal municipal regulation, entirely within
their jurisdictioh, and no one has ever thought of applying to
the Union on the subject, except where they have attempted to
defray the expense by a tonnage duty, which can be laid by a
State only by consent of Congress.
Virgina has never applied to Congress on the subject. She
requires the master or owners of the vessel to defray the expense.
Pennsylvama-and Delaware have never asked the assent of
Congress to any law -They defray expenses precisely as is
prescribed by the New York law
Maryland, South Carolina, and Georgia have -established
their own systems, but they have preferred -to defray the expenses by a tonnage duty To do this, they were of course
compelled to get the permission of Congress.
New York has considered them as municipal regulations under every dynasty The first law on the subject on her statutebook appears in 1758. (2 Liv and Smith, Col. Laws, ch. 199.)
She was then a Colony. All her commerce was then regulated in London, as now in Washington. Yet the execution
of this law was in the hands of the Colonial authorities. They
prohibited the vessel from landing, until examined and purified,
and charged all expenses to the master. This interference was
not considered a regulation of commerce by the mother coun-

try
The same law was reenacted verbatim in 1784. (1 Greenl.
117 ) New York was then a separate and independent sovereignty, and had her own custom-house and revenue officers.
Yet the executioil. of this law was given,-not to her revenue
officers, but to the.master and wardens of the port.
The third law was passed in 1794. (3 Greenl. 146.) New
York had then become a member of the Federal Umon. This
law assumed the whole subject of'quarantine, and all its appendages, as being under the exclusive control of the State.
Thus quarantine laws passed in three widely different dynasties preserve to the quarantine of New York the same mum.
cipal character.
This slight review of the New-York laws cannot fail to impress upon, the court, not only that she has always considered
them essentially police laws, but that" the construction which
New York has put upon her rights to impose quarantine
charges upon master, owner, or passengers was contemporaneQus with the Constitution, and has been continued without oh-

JANUARY TERM,, 1849.

347

Passenger 'Cases.-Argument of Mr. W Hall.

jection more than half -acentury. We claim, therefore, the
application of the rule in Stuart's case, that "1a contemporaneous exposition of the Constitution of the United States,
adopted in practice and acquiesced in for a number of years,
fbies the meaning of it, and the court will not control it." (1
Oranch, 299.)
IV All the legislation of the United States on this subject
has been in corroboration and recogmtion of theState quara4tine and health laws, and whenever this court has adverted to
them,, it has been to approve of them, as within the State
authority,, notwithstanding their admitted interference with
commerce. The United States have passed three laws on the
subject.
The first was the law of May 27th, 1796. (1 Story's Laws,
432.) This law simply required the President to direct the
revenue-officers to aid in the execution of quarantine, and also
the health laws of the States.
Hypercriticism may contend that the establishment of a
marine hospital on the quarantine grounds, for the exclusive
-reception of infected persons thrown upon our coast from the
sea, has nothing to do with quarantme. But it is absurd to
say that it is not a pertinent and appropriate part of our health
laws, and under the express sanction and protection of the
United States law of 1796.
The second law was passed on the 25th of February, 1799.
This law we have already examined, and found that the whole
purport of the law, as well as the proposition in the President's
message, was to. come in aid of,the State laws.
The third law was passed on the 13th of July, 1832. It
simply autlorizea the Secretary of the Treasury to employ additional boats, if necessary, to aid State quarantines.
These laws sanction the whole system of State quarantines,
and every thing appurtenant to quarantines, such as hospitals,
and the means of purification, and the preventing the spreading of contagion. Of these laws Chief Justice Marshall has
said, The laws of the United States expressly sanction the
health laws of a State." (12 Wheat. 444.)
Again, the decisions of this court, in harmony with the
laws of the United States, have always spoken with approbation of the health laws of the States. In Gibbons v. Ogden,
Chief Justice Marshall holds the following language - " The
inspection laws form a portion of that immense mass of legislation which embraces every thing within the territory of a State
not surrendered to the general government all which can
be most advantageously exercised by the States themselves.
Inspection laws, quarantine laws, health laws of every descrip-

348

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger -as~a5-eAr~gnment

of Mr. W Hall.

ton, as well as laws for. regulating the internal commerce of a
-State,- and those with respect to turnpike-roads, ferries, &c.
are component parts of this mass." (9 Wheat. 203.)
In-nutnerous subsequent decisions, this court have always
adverted to this class of State faws in the same strain.
To this it will be said, in reply, This doctrine is readily admitted, but a marine hospital is no essential part of a system
of -health laws. We answer, First, a marine hospital or lazaretto is connected with the
quarantine in every nation in Europe.
'Secondly, nearly a century's experience in our own port,
with and without a hospital, has demonstrated its necessity
Thirdly, the State, which has the sole discretion m the
matter, has deemed it a necessary part of her quarantine.
"A quarantine regulation. is not merely a detention of forty, or
twenty, or any other numberof days. Instead of a detention,
it may be a deviation, a requiiing of passengers to be landed
at a particular point, dr it may be an order that the sick shall
be received into a hospital made for the purpose, and cared for.
V It must be admitted that the States may pass quarantine
and health regulations, that is, laws to prevent the nutroduction
of infection into their harbours. Consequently, they Nray resort
to such means for that purpose, and to defray the expense, as
they judge expedient, and as are within their jurisdiction.
The possession of the power to establish embraces the power
to support. For example, the Constitution gives the power to
Congress to establish post-offices. Under that power they have
always exercised the right, without dispute, to exact postages.
Itis a maxim in. thii court, laid down in the case of Miln
and in numerous other cases, that a State has jurisdiction of
all means not prohibited to it by the Federal or State constitution. It is not prtended that the means resorted to in this
case are prohibited*by the State constitution, nor could such
prohibition, if it existed, be the subject of inquiry in this
court.
VI. The whol A-controversy, then, Xeduces itself to the single question, Is' the means which has been resorted to by the
State of New York to support its quarantine and health laws that of exacting a toll or tax of passengers - prohibited to it
by the Federal Constitution? We confidently aver, that it is
not.
1st. This power, .which is included in the power to-prohibit
the entiance or exit to and from -the territories of the States, is
nowhere given to -the Federal government. It is nowhere
granted as a substantive power. The power to grant ingress
and egress to and from its territory belongs to every sovereign

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

349

,Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. W. Hall.

State. (Vattel, Lib. 2, ch. 7, § 98; 2 Ruth. Inst. 476.)
They may, therefore, attach what conditions they please to
this privilege.
In the distribution of' the substantive powers of government
between the sovereignty of.the United States and the State
sovereignties, those only which were expressly granted fall to
the share of the United States; all others remain with the
States. In 4 Wheat. .195, this court 'say : -- "It does. not appear to be a violent construction of the Constitution, and is
certainly a convenient one, to consider the power of the States
as existing over such cases as the-laws of the Union. may not*
reach."
By a substantive power is meant a power which, may be exercised, not as a means, but an end. It must be expressly
granted, either directly and distinctly by name, or indirectly, as
included in and adhering to some other granted power. This
power is nowhere granted by name, nor :is included in any
other grant of power.
First, it is not included in the ninth section of the'first article
of the Constitution:
"The migration, or importation of such
persons as any of the States now existing shall think proper to
admit shall not be prohibited by the Congress brior to the year
1808; but a tax or duty may be imposed on such importation,
not exceeding ten dollars for each person."
t This is a case of migration, not of importation. This section gives Congress-no power over migration. It, recognizes a
preexisting right in the States to exdlude it at all times, and
says Congress shall not exclude it before 1808. Where does
Congress get the power to exclude it after 1808 ? The' prohibition of the exercise of a power for a limited time, which
Congress did not possess before at all, canrvot give it to them.
'Congress cannot take 'power, not as a means, but as an end, by
implicatioi. Such a conclusion is effectually excluded .by the
tenth amendmeht :The powers not delegated to the United
States, nor prohibited to the States, are reserved to the States
or the people."
I Again, this section at the time was explained, and has ever
since been construed; as having no other effect than giving
Congress power, after 1808, to prohibit the slave-trade.
Judge Iredell, the leading member of the Convention from
North Carolina, thus explains this section when submiLted to
the State convention: -"1, The Eastern States, who long ago
have abolished slavery, did not approve of the expression
slaves. They therefore used another, which answered the
same purpose ......
The word migration refers to free persdns, but. the word importation refers to slaves because free
voL. VW1.
30

350

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-7Argument of Mr. W. Hall.

persons cannot be said to be imported."

(3 -Ell. Deb., 1st ed.,

p. 98.)
Judge Wilson, who had the largest agency in forming the
Constitution of any man except Madison, thus explains this
section to the convention of Pennsylvania:-" Under the
present confederation, the States may admit the importation of
slaves as long as they please ; but by this article, after the
year 1808 the Congress will have power to prohibit such importation, notwithstanding the disposition of any State to the
contrary ......
.The
gentleman says that it means to prohibit the introduction of white-people from Europe, as this, tax
may deter them -from coming amongst us. A little impartiality
and'attention will discover the care that the Convention took
in selecting their language. The words are, ' The migration or
importation, of such persons, &c., shall not be prohibited by
Congress prior to the year 1808, but a tax or duty may be imposed on such importation.' It is observable here that the
term migration is dropped when a tax or duty is mentioned, so
that Congress have power to impose the'tax only on those imported."
Here we have the express authority of Judge Wilson, (and
there is no higher on a question of constitutional interpretation,) that this ninth sectibn does not give Congress the power
to tax free emigrants or passengers. The advocates for this
power in the Federal government must look for some other
clause in which this power lies concealed.
Secondly, we are told it is part of the power contained in
the grant to Congress ',c to regulate commerce."
The term "regulation of commerce " had a very definite
and well-understood meaning at and before the Revolution.
The phrase had become popularized by the'disputes between
the Colonies and the mother country. It was not understood
to embrace any of the offices between ship and shore, such as
pilotage, -wharfage, quarantine, &c., all of which were regulated
by colonial, and not by -the laws of the mother country. (See
Colonial Laws,passim.) It was not understood to embrace the
right to levy duties for revenue, either upon persons or things.
The assumption of the right to levy duties upon tea, under the
pretence of regulating commerce, produced' the Revolution.
But* the right to regulate commerce was conceded to England.
In the address of the Continental Congress to the people of
Great Britain they say, -" The Colonies are entitled to a free
and exclusive mower of legislation in their several provincial
legislatuteg, whe- their right of representatibi can alone be
preservad, in all cases of taxation and internal polity, subject
only to the negative of their sovereign: but from the necessity

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

351

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. W. Rall.

of the case, and'a regard for the mutual intercourse of both
countries, we cheerfully consent to the operation of such acts
of the British Parliament as are bona fide restricted to the
regulation of our foreign commerce:" (1 Journal, 28, 29.)
The regulation of commerce was considered as something
great and international, - almost synonymous with the Navigation Acts, - acts intended by Great Britain to secure the benefits of the commerce of her Colonies to herself, and to regu.
late her commercial intercourse with foreign nations. In this
popular sense it was used .by the framers of our Constitutio
The grant of the power to regulate commerce to Congres
was intended merely to substitute in this respedt the new government for the old, -the United States for England.
Passengers are not the subjects of commerce. The power to'
tax them, if it existed in the Federal government, would not
be by virtue of the power to regulate commerce. They never
have been treated as such by the Federal government. Duties
have been levied upon goods from the first, but never upon
passengers. Passengers may be landed anywhere, but goods
only in ports of entry. The payment of passage-money gives
no more control over them than the payment of board gives
the hotel-keeper control over his boarders. If the power to.
tax them is placed upon the general taxing power of the
United States, that is universally admitted to be common to
the States. This law of New York is, therefore, as constitutional as any other of her tax laws, even although Congress
may tax the same things.
Again, the grant to Congress of the metaphysical power
to regulate commerce did not carry with it any of the 'physical
means of iti exercise. The power- to regulate, &c., is a mere
capacity, a jurisdiction, an authority to make rules or laws.
For example, the, State has power to lay a poll tax of five
dollars a head on every resident of this State. But does any
one suppose that, by virtue of this power, the citizen may be
called upon by a tax-collector to pay this sum? Must there
not be a law to that effect? A mere power in the Federal or
State government is latent and dormant; like the electricity
of the air, it is unfelt and unseen until its energies are concentrated into the thunderbolt of a law.
It is palpable that the grant of power to regulate commerce
will not authorize the collector to exclude passengers from our
soil, or levy a tax upon them. There must be soma law to
that effect before he can move.
If there is any thing or any measure attached to the niere
grant of the power to regulate commerce, and which passes with
it, it is the right to lay a duty on tonnage. If the grant to-Con-

352

1 SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cabes.-Argument of Mr. W. Hall.

gress would of itself 6xclude the States from any act, it would
from this-. Yet Marshall tell us that the States would have
had this righf, had they not been expressly excluded from it by
another clause in the Constitution. (9 Wheat..202.) 'If the
right to lay a duty on tonnage is not taken from the States by
,the grant to Congress of the power to regulate commerce, with
what propriety can it be said that this grant takes from them
theAgain.
right to tax passengers ?
Laying duties on imports belongs especially to commerce. Yet Hamilton says the States would have had this
right had they not been expressly prohibited. (Fed&ralist, No.
32, p. 169.) And in neither case-does the collector derive his
authority to., collect duties from the grant'in the Constitution,
but from express laws.
I similar idea is conveyed by Marshall in the case of Sturges v. Crown'nshield, 4 Wheat. 196: - " It is not the mere
existence of the power, but its exercise," &c. Two .conclusions. follow: 11. The mere grant of -the metaphysical power by the Constitution does not carry with it any of the physical means nec6ssary for its execution. It does not execute itself.
2. That although the pow0 r be exclusive, the means are
not so. ,

This idea, that an exclusive power seizes upon the ap~propriate means of its execution and makes them exclusive also, has
been a fruitful source of error. The argument is- A tax upon
passengers is an appropriate means of regulating commerce;
therefore 'the power to regulate commerce seizes upon it and
converts it to its own nature, - that is, makes it exclusive, if it
is itself
exclusive.
This notion
of a grant of eiclusive power, carrying with it
the means of its own execution, and assimilating them to its
own exclusive nature, is not a mere abstract speculation, but
has often beei attempted to be enforced,-as in this case, in
practice. Thus in 1824 an attemnt was made to'compel the
boatmen on the Erie Canal to take out coasting licenses, on
the fallacious idea that .the exclusive power of Congress over
commerce gave an exclusive control over all the means of
commerce. (De Witt Clintonls Message of 1824.)
The same assumption led to the case of Wilson v. The Blackbird-Creek Marsh Co., 2 Peters, 245. In that case the legislaturd of Delaware had incorporated a company, and authorized
it to builda 'dam across a tide-water" navigable creek, actually
used for navigation. It was thought that this means of commerce peitained exclusively to the commercial power, and that
any. interference with it was of itself, withqut any act of Con-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

353

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr..W. Hall.

-

gress, an infringement of the power to regulate commerce.
But'Chief Justice Marshall held that the power, without a law
made in pursuance thereof, was nothing; that the repugnance
of the State law must be to an act of the United States made in
exercise of such power.
A similar case arose in the courts of the State of New York,
The People v. The Saratoga Railroad Co., 15 Wend. 114.
The railroad company built a bridge over the navigable waters of the Hudson, above'any port of entry, and interfering
with no law of the United States. The court held, that though
Congress had the power, yet that ther6 was no repugnance to
make the State law void till Congress had exercised the power
by passing a repugnant act:
Still, it is objected that the law of the State of New .York
laying a tax or toll upon passengers is a regulation of commerce, and that Congress alone has power to make a regulation of commerce. Admitting that Congress has th6 exclusive
right to make such regulations, this is not a regulation of
commerce. Does it purport to be a regulation of commerce ?
Does the State undertake to regulate commerce? No. It purports and has been used for half a century as a regulation
of health or quarantine. .Is it an appropriate regulation of.
health? Yes, unquestionably. Why, then, is it called a regulation of commerce ? Is it because it interferes with commerce? All quarantines must interfere with commerce more
or less; yet this court has repeatedly declared that they are
cit on that account unconstitutional. Is it because it may be
used as a regulation of commerce? So may a duty on tonnage. Yet Chief Justice Marshall says the States might use
it for revenue .purposes. It therefore became necessary to pro-,
hibit it by a distinct clause.
This court has repeatedly held that the States and the Federal government may do the selfsame thing in the exercise each
of its respective and acknowledged powers. "Whilst a State is
acting within the legitimate scope of its power as to the end to
be attained, it may use whatsoever means, being appropriate to
that end,- it may think fit; although they may be the same, or
so nearly the same,-as scarcely to be distinguishable from those
adopted by Congress, acting under a different power." (11
Peters, 137.)
To say that a tax upon passengers may be resorted to by the
Federal government as a means is saying nothing. Every act
which may be done by the States may be rdsorted to by the
Federal government as a means, if "necessary and proper" to
the exercise of a granted power.
It has been shown that this power to prohibit the entrance

354

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases. -Argunient of Mr. W. Hall.

of passengers, or. place any conditions upon their entrance, has
never been granted directly or .indirectly, as a distinct substantive power or as adhering to any other power, to the Federal
government.
2d. This power has nowhere been prohibited to the States.
All the prohibitions upon the States are found in Art. 1, §,10.
The only clause which is alleged to prohibit the States fr6m
the exercise of this, power is, - 1 No State shall, without the
consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or
exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for the execution of its inspection laws."
1. This is not an impost or duty. 'The lighter takes the
goods from the ship .to the wharf for so much a torn. This is
an impost in one sense, but not in the sense in which the word
is used in this section. "Impost or duty," as used in the Constitution, means such as is laid by virtue of sovereignty alone,irrespective of consideration. But we 'have seen that the tax
laid upon passengers by the State is, in fact, a toll resting upon
a private consideration, as much as pilotage or wharfage, both
of which are regulated by statute.
2. Passengers are not imports. That term is applied properly to things or slaves brought into the country as' property
without their own volition.
"Immigration applies as properly to voluntary as importation to involuntary arrivals," (9 Wheat. 2.16,) is the declaration
of Chief-Justice Marshall.
Judges Iredell and Wilson, ' active members of the convention which fcrmed the Constitution, also declare that import or
importationwas intentionally used to avoid the idea of its application to passengers or emigrants. (3 Ell. Deb., 1st ed., 98
and 251.)
Judge Barbour, in delivering the opinion of the court in the
case of The City of New York v. Miln, says, -" Passengers
are not the subjects of commerce, and are not imported goods,"
&c. (11 Peters, 136.)
3. But admitting, notwithstand'ng these authorities, that
passengers are imports, this section does not prohibit the States
from laying any duty or impost upon imports, but from laying
more than is " absolutely necessary for the execution of its inspection laws."
If passengers are imports, the law in question is an inspection
law. Infected or decayed goods are thrown into .the sea, Infected passengers are sent to the hospital, and the necessary
expenses are defrayed by a duty laid by the State, by express
authority of the Constitution.
Inspection laws apply to imports as well as exports. The

-JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

355

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. W. HalL

nucleus -of this provision as to State inspection laws was introduced into the convention by Colonel Mason, and applied only
to exports. (3 Madison Papers, 1568, 1569.) It-was afterwards
modified, the word imports introduced, and it took its present
form. (Ibid. 1584.)
Inspection of imports must relate principally to health. If,
then, this toll or tax upon passengers is a duty upon imports, it
is exclusively for the execution of a State inspection law. But
it is objected, that in this case more is taken than is "absolutely
necessary." This is denied. The State has advanced from its
treasury, for the support and execution of this inspection law,
more than it has received, -from the adoption of the Consti-"
tution to 1799, from $ 1,000 to $ 5,000 per annum;, in 1799,
$ 15,000 ; in 1809, $ 6,000.
During the war aid the previous non-intercourse and embargo laws, frbm 1809 to 1815, the quarantine establishment, including the marine hospital, was sustained almost exclusively
by the State. And the same must again occur whenever a
foreign war arises.
If,then, in time of peace, there is a surplus, (which is not
the case,) is it not proper that it should be applied to pay the.
debts of the establishment, and provide for its future wants?
Again, admitting that more is exacted than is "absolutely
necessary," the abuse cannot be corrected in this way. The
fact does not appear in the case. The State has had no opportunity of contesting this point. This case comes up on demarrer. But suppose the record presented the question of excess
-properly to the court. It dould not pronounce it, on any principle, a defence to a party refusing to pay at all.
Besides, the Constitution itself prescribes the appropriate
remedy for the evil: - "And the net produce of all duties and
imposts laid by any State on imports and exports shall be for
the use of the treasury of the United States, and all such laws
shallbe subject to the revision and control of Congress.". Constitution, Art. 1, § 10. This clause in the Constitution supposes that the State law may collect more than is necessary for
the purpose, and that it is not for that reason void. The action for excess must be brought by the United States, and Congress must coriect" the State law. This is the appropriate
remedy, and this court has fiothing to do with the matter.
The conclusion is irresistible. If this section includes a tax
or impost upon passengers, it contains also an authorization of
the State law.
3d. Not only does the Constitution nofgrant the power over
passengers to the Federal government, and not prohibit it to the
Stafts, but, from the foundation of the government, this power

356

SUPREME VOURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. W. HaIL

has-been exercised almost exclusively by the States, without
objection.
First, that this power of 'admission to their 'territories was
purely a State power was the doctrine of the founders 'of our
republic.
Those who formed the articles, oi confederation inserted the
following article: - " The people of Each State shall have free
ingress and' egriess -to and from any other State." (Confederation, Art. 4.) From which it is 'to be inferred, that the power
over ingress and egress was purely a State power, and that this'
article was necessary to restrict this power, so far as the citizens of other States of the .Union were concerned, but it did
not'attempt to interfere with its exercise in relation to aliens,
' When, a few years after the Federal Constitution was formed,
(which was intended.as'a revision of the articles of confederation,) this article had been -found defective in overriding the
health laws-of the States, - in absolutely requiring, the admission of thb citizens of other States, although they might bring
yellow-fever with tt em, - the article was modified as 'follows:
"The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens of the several States." (Constitution, Art.'4, § 2.)
This section was intended to authorize the exclusion of the
citizens of other Statest under the same circumstances under
which they 6xclude their own. This section had no reference
to aliens. .The ight of the State as t6 them remained as before. It is worthy 6f observation, 1. That the New York law -makes no distinction between
its own citizens and all other persons.
2. That the case shows, and the fact is conceded, that all
the persons on whom *the tax was levied in this case were
-aliens.
Again, that the power over ingress and egress was not taken
f6m the States by the new Constitution was the contemporaneous exposition.
In the first Qongress -after the adoption of the Constitution
by the convention, in which 'were many members df that convention, the following resolution, of the date of the 16th of
September, 1788, was passed:
"1Resolved; That it'be, and it is hereby, recommended to the
several States, to pass proper laws for preventing the transportatidn of convicted malefactors from foreign countries into the
United States." (Journal of Congress, Vol. 13.)
* Laws were accordingly passed during that year and the next,
and for five subsequent years after the Constitution went into
operation, br most of the States; among which were Virgihia,

-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

357

Passenger Cases:-Argument of Mr. W. Hall

South Carolina, Georgia, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and
New York.
Secondly, not only were such the expressed. opinions of the
statesmen of that day, but ever since - It is believed that every
State in the Union has practically guarded the gates of her own
territory, and permitted the ingress and egress- of such things
and such persons only as she pleased.
1. As to -the egress of persons. All .the States of. the
Union costantly enforce the writ of ne exeat. Numerous
States, since the adoption of the Constitution, have passed or
enforced laws prohibiting the egress of debtors without the
leave of their creditors.
2. As to the export 6f things. The statutes of New York
declare, that "1no flour shall be exported from the State -un-:
til it has been submitted to an inspector." (1 Rev. Stat., 1st
ed., p. 536, § 1.) Similar laws have been made as to beef aiid
pork, and most of the productions of the State. Similar laws
have also been passed ii other States.'
The State may lay an embargo absolutely prohibiting the
export of any or all articles. Mr. Madison mpved in convention to prohibit the States laying an embargo, but it was not
though expedient, and the proposition was rejected. (3 Madison Papers, 1444.)
It is not intended to say that Congress may not resort to an
embargo as a means. But it has no power to interdict the export of any articl irrespective of the object. For example, it
may perhaps resort to an embargo in the exercise of the war.
.power, but it cannot do it to prevent a famine.
3. As to the ingress of persons. The State poor laws, sdt..tlement laws, laws prohibiting the entrance of paupers, con-victs, infected persons, &c., are of this description.
The laws of most, if not all, of the slaveholding States pro. hibiting the entrance of free blacks, is another instance of the
exercise of this power. Does any one suppose the same power
could legally have been exercised by Congress?
4. As to the importation of things. Mississippi, and, it is
believed, some other of the Southern States, have assumed the
right to prohibit the importation of slaves as merchandise, and
this right has been sanctioned by this court in the case of
Groves v. Slaughter, 15 Peters, 449. - The same right has,
and exercised by all the Free States.
been
"Inclaimed
New York,
the introduction of bank-notes under one dollat, and of lottery-tickets, is prohibited. (1 Rev. Stat., 1st ed.,
p. 666, § 29; p. 713, § 8.)
So the introduction of noxious or immoral articles, injurious
to the health or morals of the people, is universally prohibifed

358

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. W. Hall.

by the States,, and not by the Federal government; such as
licentious books, immoral paintings, articles of gaming, tainted
food, dangerous preparations of gunpowder, and all nuisances.
The proposition, that the laying duties, or the right to regulate commerce, gives Congress the right to import what it
pleases, is not true. The case of Brown v. Maryland, 12
Wheat. 419, by no means supports it. The *hole doctrine of
that case is, that Congress has a monopoly of duties on whatever articles the State permits to. be landed.
Ellsworth held in the Convention, that taking from Congress
the power to lay duties on exports did not take away from it
the power to lay an embargo (3 Madison Papers, 1385) or prohibit exportation. On the same principle, giving the power to
lay duties on imports does not give the power to import.
These examples show abundantly how extensively and constawnly the States have exercised this power over ingress and
egress, -over imports and exports. On the other hand, no
instance is recollected of Congress exercising this power over
persons, except in the case of what is known as the alien law
of 1798. By this law power was given to the President, by his
marshals, to remove certain aliens. (1 Story, 515, ch. 75.)
This law was bitterly censured at the time, and the right
assumed by Congress denounced as unconstitutional. And it
is now almost universally admitted that it was a violent and
unconstitutional strdtch of Federal power. Mr. Tazewell, a
distinguished Senator from Virginia, said, -"
But one power
was given to Congress over aliens, - that of naturalizing them;
and this did not authorize Congress to prohibit the migration
of-foreigners to a State, or to banish them when admitted.
The States had not parted from their power of admitting foreigners to their society." (Ell: Deb., 1st ed., 251; 2 Virginia
Stat. at Large, New Series, 492.)
This assumption of power on the part of Congress greatly
excited and aroused the country. The legislatures of Virginia
and Kentucky denounced the law, and passed resolutions supposed to have been drawn by Jefferson and Madison, and which
have ever since been considered as of incontrovertible authority in-the construction of constitutional law.
The following is the fourth of the Kentucky resolutions :
"That alien friends are under the jurisdiction and protection
of the laws of the State where they are; that no power over
them has been delegated to the United States, nor prohibited
to the individual States, distinct from their power over citizens,
and it being true as a general principle, and one of the amendments to the Constitution having also declared that the powers
not, delegated to the United States by the Constitution nor

SANUARY

TERM, 1849.

359

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. W. HaIL

prohibited by it to the States are reserved to the States respectively or the people, the act of Congress of the United
States passed 22d of June, 1798, entitled ' An act concerning
aliens,' which assumes power over alien friends not delegated
by the Constitution, is not law, but is altogether void and of
no force."
I VII. The law of the State of New York does not violate or
contravene the provisions of any law or treaty of the United
States. "Laws made in pursuance of the Constitution, and
all treaties made or to be made, or which shall be made under
the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of
the land." (Constitution, Art. 6, § 2.)
1st. As to treaties. - The vessel was an English vessel, and
it is conceded that all the emigrants on whose account the toll
was collected were British subjects. If the toll violates in letter or spirit any treaty with England, it is illegal and void.
The 'treaties by which our intercourse is regulated with England are the treaties of 1794 and 1815. These treaties profess
to place the two nations on terms of equal and reciprocal advantages.
1. Does it violate reciprocity? The New York law lays a
tax or toll upon passengers to defray the selfsame expenses
which England defrays by a tonnage duty. England collects
four tilmes as much fron our vessels for the support of her
quarantine and hospital as we do from hers. The expenses in
England amount to nearly a-dollar per ton for an ordinary vessel of three hundred or four -hundred -tons. We collect that
amount only upon. here and there a passenger vessel..If, therefore, there is any violation of the reciprocity stipulations of the
treaties in the execution of quarantine or health laws, it is on
the part of England. (2 State Papers, Com. and Nay., MNitch-

ell's App., No. 9.)
2. This is a law regulating the internal police of the country; and it is a rule of international law, independent of treaties, "1that all foreigners are admitted into a country on condition of obeying its laws." (Vattel, Lib. 2, ch. 8, ' 101.)
One of the laws which they are bound to obey is the layment
of all reasonable tolls. (Ibid., Lib. 1, ch. 9, § 103.)
This principle of international law is incorporated in these
treaties, which are made expressly subject to the laws and statutes of the country. (Treaty of November, 1774, art. 14; of
It is immateJuly, 1815, art. 1; Ell. Dip. Code, 253 -275.)
rial, so far as treaties are concerned, °whether laws be made by
the States or the United States. If it were within its constitutional powers, indisputably Congress might lay such a tax, as
well as add a new item to the tariff. The State law is not
obnoxious to the objection of infringing any trea ,.

360

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. W. H*IL'

2d. As to a law. There is no law of the United States taxihg passengers. Even if they have the power, they have not
used it. Nor can it.fairly be said that there is a. law regulating
passengers. The law of 1819 (3 Story, 1722) relates to "passenger ships and vessels." It regulates the number-of passengers who may be taken on board by .the tonnage. It was
made 'in the exercise of the undisputed police power of Congress over vessels on the ocean. There is nothing in it with
which the State law interferes in the r6motest degree.
But, it is replied, we do -not contend there is any conflict
with any written law, any actual regulation, but with "a nonregulation."
Congress, it is assumed, has legislated on the subject of patsengers, and it is as much its will that what is not prohibited
should remain as it. is, as what is prohibited. In other wordsthat, by making one regulation on a subject,,Congress takes
'possession of the whole' subject as. effectually as by making
every possible regulation' This ingenious theory has, never
'been applied in practice, and never can be.
1. None but " laws made" are declared by the Constitution
to be the supreme law'of the land. Is this imaginary "nonregulation?' a law made by Congress? What are its terms, its
provisos, and its exceptions, -its extent, its length, and. its
breadth? And who is to construe and apply it?
2. This inferential legislation is uncontrollable by Congress.
A vast mass of means hitherto left .exclusively to the States, as
more advantageous to the country, will be immediately seized
upon and appropriated by the' Federal government, not by virtue of any new legislation, but by this court sanctioning the
No discretion is left to the legistheory of "non-regulation."
lature. The Constitution becomes self-acting. It seizes, piroprio vigore, when any power is put in action by the slightest
act of legislation on the subject, upon all the means which
might by any possibility be. brought within its reach. The
concurrence of State power becomes an empty sound.
The rule, in case of collision between Federal and State
laws on a sulject of concurrent jurisdiction, laid down by M7arshall,, is, that "the. State law, so far, and so far only, as. that
incompatibility exists, must necessarily yield.' (5 Wheat. 49,
50.) This is no longer- the rule. The State laws must yield
so far as the Federal power extends, - so far'as the Federal
government had power to pass incompatible laws.
Things which have hitherto been left'to the States must be
taken from them. Pilot laws, harbour regulations, laws respecting lighterage, wharfage, &c., must be abolished. Tidemills, dams, bridges, &c., upon navigable tide-water, which

JAN.UARY

TERM, 1849.

361

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. W. Hall.

line our coast, must b'e swept away. Under the doctrine of
" non-regulation," Congress takes possession at once of all the
remote as well as immediate means of executing its powers;
e., g. the power to regulate commerce gives remote power over
the ship-builder, the timber-merchant, the lumber-man, &c.
The names of some 6f the titles in the French Code of Commerce may convey some idea of the- extent of power which
may be included in the power to regulate commerce - Partnerships, Banks, Brokers, Carriers, Bis of Exchange, Vessels, Insurances, Bankruptcies, &c. Thus far Congress has left these
subjects to the States ; but if this doctrine of "non-regulation"
prevails, the matter is taken out of the hands of Congress,. and
all the regulations on these subjects which it was competent
"for Congress to make under its constitutional power are to be
considered as majle already. State power is in effect annihilated; if not at once, it is so crippled that it dies a lingering
death.
This rule of constmctioh will be found oppressive in the
extreme, and impossible. Oppressive, because it requires men
to obey laws which they cannot know; impossible, because
the courts, cannot apply it. The courts easily determine the.
limits of a written law, and their decisions are uniform ; but
it surpasses human knowledge to ascertain with precision the
ramifications of a subject-matter.
Subjects intermingle. Commerce, manufactures, agriculture, are concerned in ship-building. Scarcely an act can be
presented to the court which is not compound. How iluch of
that subject, whieh carries with it the power of Congress, shall
be necessary for that purpose ?
It is to commerce, particulrly that this theory has been applied. "Commerce," it'.is said, ", is a unit, and what is not
regulate is as much a part of the unit as what is." We may
admit that the power to regulate commerce is a unit, and is exclusive. We may(admit that the regulations of commerce form
one system, and are all exclusive. But the means employed or
resorted 'to by these -r6gulations are as diverse as nature, and
as free to the States aq to' Congress. This case turns. upon
taking money as a tax or toll from passengers. This is not
a regulation of any kind,, but an act,. a means.
These means are not permanently or necessarily attached to
the regulation which adopts them. Granted that they may be
resorted to to-day b# a regulation of commerce, they are not
inseparately attached to that regulation. They form no part
of the unit. They may be resorted to to-morrow by a totally
different regulation, - one of health or finance on the part of'
voL. Vil.
31

362

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger 0,ses.-Argument of Mr. W. Hall.

the States. The fallacy consists in confounding a regulation
of commerce with the means which it adopts.
This idea of unity was first broached by Mr. Madison, who
suggested that the right to regulate commerce was one and indivisible, and would exclude the States from the right to lay
tonnage duty, and consequently that there was no necessity
for any express prohibition in the Constitution upon the States.
(3 Madison Papers, 1585.) The convention thought otherwise,
and inserted the prohibitory clause, and Marshall intimates that
it might have been resorted to by the States had it not been
prohibited.. (9 Wheat. 202.) The idea was again suggested by
Mr. Webster in his argument in the case of Gibbons v. Ogden.
(9 Wheat. 14.) "Henceforth," he says, "the compierce of
the State, was to be a unit." This view of the nature of the
commercial power was afterwards referred to by Marshall as
one having great weight. (Ibid. 209.)
The major proposition of these distinguished men, of the
unity of the commercial power, is not contested, but merely
its application to commercial means. The case of Gibbons v.
Ogden was not decided, against the State on the ground that
the law of the State violated the commercial unity, or that the
means employed by the State were not in themselves common tor both governments, but because a law of the 'tnited
States had already appropriated them to her u.e, and that the
law of the ,State attempting to do the same was necessarily repugnant to the Federal law, and therefore void.
Marshall certainly did riot intend, by the unity of commercial power, unity of commercial means, nor that the power of
Congress to use the means of itself appropriated them, or that
"non-regulation" was equivalent to regulation, in any case.
In Sturges. v. Crowninshield, his language is, -" 1 It may be
thought more convenient that much of it [any subject c6mmitted to Congress] should ,be regulated by State legislation,
and Congress may purposely omit to provide for many cases to
which their power extends." (4 Wheat. 195.) It is. obvious
that he thought that-the States might use any means whatever
not prohibited to them, and which Congress had not by an
actual law apprqpriated to itself.
Again, he says in Wilson v. The Blackbird Creek Marsh
Co., -1 "If Congress had passed any act which bore unon the
case .....
.we
should feel not much difficulty in saying
that a State law coming in conflict with such act would be
void. But Congress has passed no such act." True, says the
objector, but" Congress has power to pass such an act, and
"non-regulation" is equal to regulation. It is clear that Marshall gave no such efficacy to " non-regulation."'

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. W. Hall.

The repugnance which makes a State law void must be to
some actual existing law of the United States, and not to some
non-existing inferential regulation.
I have attempted to prove that the power over passengers
either to exclude or tax them has not been given to Congress,
either directly or indirectly; that it has nowhere directly or
inferentially been prohibited to the States; that in practice it
has been used by the States exclusively since the foundation
of the government; and that the law of the State of New
York now in question, made in exercise of that power, does
not, in the remotest degree, infringe any treaty or any law of
the United States.
I cannot conclude this argument without calling the particular attention of this court to the case of The City of New York
v. Miln. The Supreme Court of the State of New York held
this cdse to be identical with that. In that case the State law
required the master to deliver a manifest of his passengers to
the mayor within twenty-four hours of his arrival; to give
bond and security for $ 300 to the city to indemnify against
expenses of maintenance; that the master shall remove such
passengers as the mayor, &c., shall direct; that the vessel shall
be liable for any penalties incurred by the master. That law,
like this, was alleged to be a regulation of commnerce. That
law prohibited passengers from landing altogether. This allows them to land on condition of paying expenses. That law
required the master to give bond and security in $ 300 for each
passenger. This law allows each one to come on shore on
payment of the expenses. That law, after two elaborate arguments, was held not to be a regulation of commerce. In what
particular does it differ in principle from this? Both are made
in the execution of police laws of the State. Neither assumes
to regulate commerce, and both are interferences with .it.
The gist of the argument of Mr. Justice Story in his dissenting opinion in that case is, that "the States cannot resort
to a regulation of commerce," &c., &c. Certainly not. The
very question in dispute was, whether that was a regulation
of commerce. He assumes, without proving it, the whole
question.
He speaks of exclusive means. Powers may be exclusive,
regulations. may be exclusive, but means cannot be so, unless
the States are excluded from them by name in the Constitution,
or unless the Federal government have appropriated them, by
an express law, to their own use. No doubt, as the very
learned judge says, if the same means had been resorted to by
Congress, it would have been in the execution of a regulation
of commerce, and when resorted to by jhe States, it is in the
bona fide execution of a police law.

364

SUPREME

COURT.

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. W. Hall.

The rule is very clearly and concisbly laid down by Judge
Johnson: Whenever the powers of the respective governments are frankly exercised with a distinct view to the ends of
- such powers, they may act upon the same means, and yet the
powers be kept perfectly distinct. A resort to the same means,
therefore, is no argument to prove the identity of their respective powers."
(9 Wheat. 239.)
.. This case cannot be decided for the plaintiff without overriding the case of Miln. This court, like all others, is presumed
to be governed by the maxim, Stare decisis. For no court is
it so important. Disrespect follows inconsistency, and woe to
the Union when the decisions of this court shall cease to be respected. If the majority of to-day attempt to correct a supposed
previous erroneous decision, the majority of to-morrow will certainly reinstate the old rule. This court remains, but its members change. Three of the five members who decided in favor
of State rights in the- case of MIiln are gone. Where is Thompson? Where is Baldwin? Where is Barbour, who gave the
opinion of the court in that case? Had these judges remained
in the seats which they once adorned,. this suit would never
have been brought. Is it wise thus to invite speculation upon"
the sad changes which the inevitable doom that awaits us -all
must produce in this tribunal? If temporary majorities are to
give 'the law of this court; its decisions, which should be as
permanent as the republic, will, become as fluctuating and mortal as its members.
The poor emigrants do not ask to be relieved of this tax.
-They do not bring this suit, nor is it brought for their benefit.
The foreign agent, the rich shipper, is before this court striving, at the expense of these unfortunates, to swell their enormous gains. This toll is embraced in the price of passage.
The emigrant knows nothing of it. If it is removed, he will
know nothing pf it, but that the home and the asylum that
greeted him, and rescued him-from disease and death on his
arrival, are gone.
What cares the rich shipper of Liverpool,- what cares his
agent in New York, whether infection is brought to our shores,
whether disease ravage, our city ? No ties -bind him to. the
soil. No family or kindred to weep over. Wealth is at his
disposal. -. He keeps aloof or flies from thb pestilence which his
accursed avarice has brought upon the devoted city.
But ask the emlgrant, ask the destitute, ask the pbor citizein,
ask the thronging masses who make up the population of a
great city, whom the strong bonds of poverty and affection
chain to their homes, "Come weal, come woe."
They will
.pray you to.preserve -unimpaired the health laws of the city,

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

365

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. W. Hall.

the quarantine, and its hospital, which have so long proved an
efficient protection to them and their families. They will conjurd you, with the agonizing earnestness, of men who feel that
their lives are concerned in what they ask.
Has this court listened to the suggestion, that, if this power is
conceded to the Statbs, it may be abused to the prejudice of
commerce? Such a consideration is not for them. Let them
close their ears, if they would not be betrayed-into error..
Marshall has said, - CCAll power may be abused, and if the
fear of abuse is to constitute an argument against its existence,
it might be. urged against the existence of that which is indispensable to the general safety." (12 Wheat. 440.)
But the suggestion is absurd. There is no such danger. If
the child may be trusted to its mother, the city may. be trusted
to the State. It forms its greatest pride, and dearest interest.
The commerce of New York is its gloryi and the great source
of its prosperity. Will it be guilty of the suicidal folly of destroying or injuring it? No. The accommodations for the sick
passenger form one of the attractions of its port. The emigrants flock to, it in preference to any other. The past year,
more than one hundred thousand have'arrived. All the hospitals at thd quarantine have been crowded, and yet no extraordinary fatality has prevailed.
On the other hand, the mortality among the emigrants who
have arrived at Quebec has been. frightful,- not less than one
tenth of the whole number. The pestilence has been scattered
through the country, and the whole province has been sorely
afflicted.
What has occasioned the difference but the very hospitals
supported by this tax, and which must fall with it? They
have been the refuge, and have yearly saved the lives, of thousands of the emigrants, and nothing, save their religion, is more
gratefully cherished by ihem than the hospital at the quarantine ground in New York.
Conceding for a moment, that, if the State institution is destroyed, the Federal government have power to replace it, -will
they do it? -Will they continue to give it adequate support?
Such is not the history of the past.
A few years before the close of the last century, Congress
set on foot a marine hospital fund for the relief of sailors. In
1802, it had accumulated to more than ninety thousand dollars.
At this time Massachusetts and Virginia governed the Union.
They concluded to divide the fund between them. Fifteen
thousand dollars were appropriated to build a sailor's hospital
at Boston, and thirty-five thousand went to purchase an oldhospital at Gosport, in Virginia.
'31*

366

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.,-Argument of Mr. Van. Buren.

Is it wise to leave an interest so local and so -intensely interesting as that which concerns the lives of the citizens of
New York to depend on the fluctuations of political influence ?
What do the Alleghanies or the Rocky Mountains know or
care for the ravages of yellow-fever in the city of New York?
The island of New York will soon contain a million of people. When pestilence comes, it will sweep away thousands in
a day. If she sees the necessary means of self-protection withheld or removed to more favored cities, what bonds will be
strong enough to bind her to submission? When, the poisoned
darts of death falling thick and fast around them, her citizens
are called upon to wait the slow, reluctant movements of the
Federal government, -when, driven to desperation by the imminent danger impending over them, they see themselves cut
off from reasonable succour by the selfish, unsympathizing legislation of a remote people, who send their exports to Hudson's
Bay or the mouth of the Columbia, will they not be impelled
to take the law into their own hands?
Our country is extending itself farther and farther to the
south and west; Wisdom cries aloud, with a warning voice, to
leave local interests as much as possible to local legislation, and
attend only to those common and external interests for which
the Uniorf was formed. Let the States repose in the undisturbed exercise of the'sovereignty which is left to them, and
we mhy, with safety, extend our system to the extreme limits
.of the continent.
, The State of New York asks the humble boon of being allowed to protect herself against an exclusively internal evil.
Two thirds of the common revenife" are collected in her harbour. Sh6 divides the annual millions which, but for the
Union; would be poured into her own- coffers, freely and ungrudgingly among her sisters. She calculates not the value of
the Union. She glories in the honor and welfare of our common country. But she has deemed it not unreasonable that she
should be allowed to protect herself against dangers -to which
this commerce, carried on for the common benefit, exposes her,
and her alone.
SMITH v. TumER.

Sketch of Mr. Van Buren's argument at the December
term, 1845. The references to the excise cases decided since
were made on the re-argument in 1847.
Mr. Van Buren referred to the printed points, and said the
able argument submitted on them by his colleague would perhaps justify him in remaining entirely silent, but the impor-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

367

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Van Buren.

tance of the questions presented to the court seemed to him to
authorize some additional suggestions.' He read the sections under which this suit was brought. (1 Rev. Stat. 445, § 7-9.)
By them the health commissioner was authorized to collect,
from the master of every vessel that should arrive from a foreign port at the port of New York; one dollar for each steerage passenger on board. The sum so received was devoted to
the use of the marine hospital, and the master was authorized
to sue for and collect from each of such passengers the sum
paid on his account. The dbelaration contained two counts,
the first alleging that the passengers were brought -into the
port of New York; the second, that they were landed in New
York. The demurrer is to the whole declaration, on the
ground that the law is repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States. Of course, the facts alleged in both counts are
to be taken as true. The question is not whether the law is
wise or politic, but whether it is repugnant to the United
States Constitution. This is the extent of the jurisdiction of
this court, (Judiciary Act, 1789, § 25,) and the question is to
be determined on this record. The court cannot legally know
how much money has been received under this law, nor the
use it has been put to, nor the extent of disease, nor the expenses of the hospital, nor when the fund falls short, nor when
it overruns. If these facts are important, they should be determined by proof in a competent proceeding. On this record,
the court are asked by the plaintiff in error to say that the sections referred to necessarily conflict with the United States
Constitution. The tax which they impose was first laid on the
30th of March, 1798, (3 Greenl. 388,) and it will be cop.ceded
that, if it was constitutional then, it is constitutional now. It
does not grow unconstitutional by age. The power to declare
a State law unconstitutional is one of great deicacy, as this
court have frequently said, and should never be exercised in
cases of doubt. (6 Cranch, 128 ; 4 Wheat. 621.) As Mr. Og-"
den truly remarks, in New York v. Miln, 11 Peters, 122, "it
should be so clear as to secure the acquiescence of the people
and of the States, and thus to"retain the affection of the different members of the Union for the Union itself." All the
presumptions are in favor of the constitutionality of a law.
Those who object to its unconstitutionality should be able to
point to the provision of the jnited States Constitution with
which it tomes in c6 llision, and the conflict should be so plain,
that it could be immediately seen by comparing the two.
The plaintiff in error says that this law conflicts with the eighth
section of the first article .of the Constitution ; also with the
tenth section of the first article ; also with the ninth section of

368

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Van Buren.

the first article, subdivisions fourth and fifth; also with the sixth
artiQle, subdivision second; and also with the general spirit of
the Constitution. The general spirit of the Constitution is to
be found in its letter. 'The sections of the Constitution referred
to should be examined separately; it is neither intelligible nor
safe to contrast the law with what may be deemed the blended effect of all; and in examining them it should be remembered that the States, at the adoption of the Constitution,
were free, independent, and sovereign communities; that as
such they formed, as such adopted, the Constitution; -that the
Constitution is a grant by them of certain enumerated powers.
The language of the tenth article of the Constitution only defines for greater caution what would have been the legal and
constitutional effect of the grant -in the, manner and form in
which it was made, to wit, that "the powers not delegated to
the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to
the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the
people." (Baldwin's Views of the Constitution, 29- 32.) The
strict observance of these 'principles, in construing the Constitution, is believed by a large portion of the American people to
.be the surest bond of the Union itself.
First, does the law in question conflict with the eighth
section of the first article of the United States Constitution ?
-This section provides, that "the Congress shall have power to
regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the everal
States, and with the Indian tribes." What is this power, and
is it exclusive in Congress, or concurrent in Congress and in
the States ? The terms used are capable of indefinite extension-in the hands of 'a skilful construer. Commerce, in'an enlarged sense, covers nearly all the business relations of society.'
Every law that qualifies or affects its transactions or relations'
necessarily regulates it. Take the first clause, -" Congress
shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign' nations."
Pilot laws affect this commerce; they touch-it on the open sea,
they restrain those engaged in it, they regulate it; yet the
States on the sea-board all have pilot laws. So too, inspection
laws; It is said these are authorized by the United States
Constitution. Not so. Duties and imposts are permitted 'to'
execute them, but the laws are enacted under the inherent
poiver of the State. It is true, most inspected articles are intended for exportation to foreign ports. But-commerce consists
as much of exports as imports; restraints and regulations of
one are as much regulation of commerce as the other., The
States also pass quarantine laws, wreck, laws, harbour regulations, &c., &c.
These would seem to show a concurrent power in the 'States

JANUARY TERM, 1849.
Passenger Cases. -Argument

369

of Mr. Van Buren.

over foreign commerce. Congress has power to regulate commerce among the States; yet the States 'establish ferries from
one to the other. The court has held that the transportation of
slaves from State to State is 'ithin the exclusive control of the
States. (Groves v. Slaughter, 15 Peters, 449.) Congress has
power to regulate commerce with-the Indian tribes. Yet several
States have habitually, since the adoption of the Constitution,
passed laws regulating trade with the Indians. The New York
constitution, article seventh, section twelfth, provides that no
purchase of lands, or contract for purchase, made with Indians,
within that State, subsecjuent to October, 1775, shall be valid,
unless made by the authorify and with the consent of the
legislature. A comparison of this power in the Constitution
with what it was in the Articles of Confederation, shows a
much greater solicitude to make this exclusive than either of
the others. The ninth article of the Confederation gave Congress power to regulate the trade and manage "all affairs with
the Indians, not members of any of the States; "provided that
the legislative right of any State, within its own limits, be nbt
infringed or violated." These restrictions were intentionally
omitted in the Constitution. (See Federalist, No. 42, by Madisbn.) Yet the constitutionality of the laws and constitutions
of the different- States, regulating trade with the Indians, has
never been questioned. The Constitution gives the same
power to Congress over -commerce among the States and with
the Indian tribes that it gives over foreign commerce. If the
latter is exclusive, the others are, and if the whole are exclusive, all the legislation thus briefly adverted to must be deemed
void. It is submitted that the power is concurrent, subjectto
the positive, inhibitions in the Constitution. It is -the power\
t6 regulate commerce with foreign nations which demands particular attention. This law' ehcroaches on that power or on
none.
We contend respectfully, that the power to regulate commerce is only exclusive in those cases where the regulation is
effected by the exercise of an authority specially given to Congress in exclusive terms in the Constitution, or specially prohibited to the States; and that the only other authority over
the subject remaining in- Congress is derived from the sixth
article .of the Constitution, which authorizes them to prostrate
State laws and constitutions by their own conflicting legislation.
Mr. Hamilton, in the thirty-second number of the Federalist,
says that there is an exclusive delegation or alienation of State
sovereignty in three cases: first, where exclusive power is in
terms given to Congress; second, where an'authority is granted

370

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-

Argument of Mr. Van Buren.

to the Union, and the States are prohibited from exercising a
like authority; third, where an authority is granted to the
Union, to which a similar authority in the States would be absolutely and totally contradictory and repugnant. As examples
of the third class, he instances -the power to establish uniform
laws on th" subjects of naturalization and bankruptcy.
This classification of .the exclusive powers of Congress has
been frequently referred to with approbation by this court. It
is with extreme- hesitation that a doubt is suggested as to its
accuracy; but it is believed that a careful analysis of the Constitution authorizes the position, that the first two classes mentioned by Mr. Hamilton cover every case of exclusive delegation of power by the States, and that his third class of cases
is covered by article sixth, subdivision second, which makes the
laws of Congress, enacted in pursuance of the Constitution, the
supreme law of the land.
This position is advanced with- less hesitation, because, first,
no case has ever been decided by the court which establishes
such a classification; and secondly, the illustration given by
Mr. Hamilton of the third class has been overruled. A single
section gives the power to establish laws on the subject of
naturalization and bankruptcy. They are to be alike uniform.
Yet in Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122, it was expressly decided that the grant of power to Congress to establish
uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcy did not alienate the
power of the States. Why, then, should this effect follow the
grant of power to establish uniform laws on the subject of naturalization ? Each of the States, before the adoption of the
Constitution, exercised this power of naturalization, and would
now but for the action of Congress and the provisions of article fourth, section second. (Chirac v. Chirac, 2 Wheat. 269;
Collett v. Collett, 2 Dail. 294.)
Mr. Van Buren then examined the various powers given to
Congress by the Constitution, and endeavoured to show that,
whenever the power granted was, or was intended to be, exclusive, it was either 1st. Granted in exclusive terms, or (what is synonymous)
necessarily exclusive, from operating in two or more States, or
without the territory of all the States ; or
2d. Granted to the general government, and prohibited to
the, States.
In the first class he placed the power to borrow money on
the credit of the United States, to establish post-offices and
post-roads, to establish tribunals inferior to the Supreme Court,
to define and punish piracies and felonies on the high seas,
to exercise exclusive legislation over the District of Colum-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

371

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Van Buren.

bia, forts, magazines, arsenals, &c., and to make all necessary
and proper laws to carry the foregoing powers into execution.
In the second class he placed the power to lay duties, imposts,
and excises, except to execute inspection laws, to coin moey,
regulate the value thereof and of foreign coin, to declare war,
grant letters of marque, &c., to raise and support armies, to
provide and maintain a navy, and make rules 'for the government of the army and navy.
The States are prohibited from entering into any agreement
or compact with another State, or with a foreign power.
Power to make treaties is given to the President and Senate.
This classification leaves, of the general powers of Congress
which it is believed are not exclusive, the powers, 1st. To lay and collect taxes. This is admitted to be concurrent.
2d. Over naturalization and bankruptcy, already adverted to.
3d. To fix the standard of weights and measures. This has
always been exercised by the States, and never by the general
government.
4th. To punish counterfeiting. - This is concurrent. (1
New York R. L. 466.)
5th. To promote science and the arts by copy and patent
rights. This, to the extent of State limits, is believed to be
concurrent.' (1 Tucker's Black., App. D., 182, 265; Livingston
v. Van Ingen, 9 Johns. R. 567, 568; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 221.)
6th. Over the militia, which is concurrent, except so far asexpressly distributed by the Constitution to the States and
Congress-respectively.
7th. Over commerce. (Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 1.) It
is submitted that this is a concurrent power, unless the regulation is one authorized in express terms by the Constitution, and
falling under the first or second class before mentioned. For
instance, commerce is usually provided for by treaties, coining
money, &c., &c.; it is usually protected by -armies and navies,
and the punishment of crimes on the high seas; it is usually
interrupted by war. The authority over all these great subjects is exclusively in the general government. If commerce
'is incidentally regulated in other modes, the powers of the
States and the general government are concurrent with the safeguard, in case of conflict, that the authority of Congress is paramount. This definition of the grant avoids three difficulties
which must always be encountered by those who claim that
the power over commerce, in its most enlarged signification, is
exclusive :-

372

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.--Argument

of Mr. Van Buren.

1. In Sturges v. Crowninshield, the court, in deciding. a
State insolvent or bankrupt law to be valid till Congress acts,
says, S'It is nPt the grant of a'power to the Union, but its exercise, that ousts the State. of jurisdiction."' This, it is believed, cannot be true of an exclusive power; If such a power
is granted to the Union, the State must necessarily be divested
of it, whether Congress acts or not. The State is at the mercy
of Congress, and helpless till it chooses to act.
2. In the argument -of Gibbons v. Ogden, the distinguished
counsel for the appellants contended (9 Wheat. 18), that regulation of any part made an entire system ; that what 'was untouched was'as much regulated as what was touched, and the
court say the're is-great force in the argument, and that, it has
not been answered. (p. 209.) If this be so, a single commercial regulation by Congress would oust the States of authority,
and leave their great interests to await the next movement of
Congress.
3. In every argument and decision in favor of the exclusive
power, counsel .and court have been obliged to-except from its
operation pilot, health, inspection laws, &c. (9 Wheat. 18,
203-207; 12 Wheat. 444.) But these-are nowhere excepted
in the grant, and if it is exclusive it must cover them. Inspection, laws are no exception. No authority is given to the
States to pass them, but they are authorized to lay imposts to
execute them.
This court has never held thd power to be exclusive. In
Gibbons v. Ogden, the• regulations were held to be conflicting,
and the case was decided on that ground. (9 Wheat. 200.)
In New York v. Miln, 11 Peters, 146, the court decline deciding the question. In Groves v. Slaughter, 15 Peters, 508, it is
left an open question. But 'in the License Cases, 5 Howard, a
majority of.the judges expressly hold the power to be concurrent. The plaintiff in error, then, to show the act now before
the.court an unconstitutional regulation of commerce, if we are
correct, must point, either, 1st. To the clause in the United States Constitution which
delegates exclusively to the general government the authority
to make this law.
2d. To the express prohibition on the States to make it.
,Neither can be shown. If not,'it remains with that mass of
inherent power appertaining to State sovereignty which has
never been alienated. All the States have passed laws similar
,to this for thelast half-century. He should refer to them particularly hereafter, and shaw 'that all these laws arrested vessels
on the high seas, inspected them, discharged, and destroyed
their cargoes, forbade them io anchor, &c., &c., and charged the

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

373

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Van Buren.

expense of executing the laws on the cargo, consignee, captain,
or passenger, at discretion. The "regulations of commerce,"
if any, in the act before the court, were the control and direction
exercised over the captain, passengers, ship, and cargo. The
orders to them were where to stop, when to proceed, what
should be destroyed, &c. Yet these act9 were within the unquestionable power of the States, and were not even seriously
disputed here. They were sanctioned in the case of New
York v. Miln. They occurred always in the pilot, inspection,
quarantine, and slave laws.
It seemed to him these considerations must dispose of the
theory that commerce was a unit; that it included all intercourse; that the whole power over the subject of commerce,
and its mode of prosecution, was surrendered to Congress; that
what was untoucied was as much regulated as what *as
touched, &c., &c.
But it was urged that, if this was a case of concurrent power,
Congress had acted on the subject, and that there was a conflict of legislation; also, that the act before the court conflicted
with treaties made by the United States. He examined these
positions at length, and endeavoured to show that the legislation of Congress, so far from conflicting, was in aid and approbation of the law. He referred to the law of '1796, ch. 31, 1
Story, 432; Act of 1799, ch. 118, ib. 564; New York v. Miln,
11 Pet .rs, 138, 139.
The treaties referred to were expressly subject to the laws
of _the two countries. If this law violated them, no tariff law,
and certainly no law prohibiting the entry of colored persons
into States, could be upheld. But it was urged that the tax
of ona dollar on each steerage passenger was "a regulation of
commerce." This he denied. The taxing power and the
commercial power were totally distinct. Even, laying imposts
is. not a regulation of commerce. (9 Wheat. 201.) Chief
There is no analogy between the
Justice Marshall says, -"
power of taxation and the power of regulating commerce."
The tax in this case is laid on an inhabitant of New York,
-within her limits and jurisdiction. It is laid when the ship has
arrived in the port of New York. As the record shows in this
case, the passengers, as they are called, had landed. To deny
the rigLt"of the State to do this is the most alarming proposition ever yet presented to this court. He contended, 1st. That the State had the power altogether' to forbid the
landing on her shores of such persons as she chose to forbid, or
to expel those who -aa . entered, and, as a necessary consequence, she might digtte-.the terms on which they should be
pymitted to enter, This was vital to her self-preservation.
IVOL. VIZ.
32

374

%

SUPREME COURT.

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Van Buren.

And having this right, the manner of its exercise must, bif necessity, be left to her discretion. It was to be presumed selfinterest, if no higher motive, would, induce a discreet exercise
of this power. But if the State was unreasonable, tat pro
ratione voluntas. This court had no power to supervise her
conduct. In support of this he cited New York v. Miln, 11
Peters, 132, 136; 7 Statutes of South Carolina, 459; Aikin's
Alabama Dig. 352; 1 Lislet's Dig. Lou. Laws, 499. He also
cited laws forbidding or regulating the admission of free persons of color in fifteen different States, - non-slaveholding
as well as 4laveholding States. In Groves v. Slaughter, 15
Peters, it was 'held that the right to admit slaves from other
States into Mississippi, or to forbid them to enter, rested exclusively with that State, and was unaffected by the authority of
Congress to regulate commerce among the States. The arglament that the general government, being charged with the
foreign relations of the country, acquired the right to regulate
the terms upon which aliens should be edmitted into the
States, could not be mrintained. The States retain the right
to prescribe who shall hold property within their jurisdiction,
who shall vote, &c. The sole power given to Congress is to
prescribe the terms of citizenship by means of naturalization
laws. " In support of these positions he cited Senator, Tazewell's speech against the Alien and Sedition Law. (4 Ell. Deb.,
2d ed., 453; 3 Madison Papers, 1385.) Also, the Virginia and
Kentucky resolutions and reports on the same subject. (4 'Ell.
Deb., 566 to 608 inclusive.)
2d. That the right of a State to tax all persons and things
within her jurisdiction was only limited by the express prohibitions of the United States Constitution, and that none of these
prohibitions reached the tax in question. The power of taxation is vital to a State. The concurrent right of taxation given
by the Constitution to the general g6vernment was one great
objection to its adoption. It would never have received the
sanction of the States, if they had not been satisfied that the
right to raise money from persons and property within their
limits was unrestricted except in specified particulars. (See
Federalist, Nos. 32, 33, 34, 36.) The importance of this
power to the State, and its unlimited character, have been frequently asserted by this court.' (4 Wheat. 436; 6 ib. 429; 9 ib.
198; Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Peters, 563.) The power
not only extends to all the real and personal property of its citizens, but to that of non-residents, to the property of the generalgovernment (4 Wheat. 436), and to the United States stock
(1 Nott & McCord, 527).- Nor is there any' such exemption as
the' plaintiff in error claims for the instruments of commerce.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.
Passenger'Cases.-

375

Argument of Mr. Van Buren.

Importing merchants, ship-owners, and others, are taxable like
all other inhabitants, for all their property, whatever it may
consist of. (5 How. 576, 592.)
There are but two restrictions on the State power of taxation :
1. No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any
imposts except what may be absolutely necessary to execute its
inspection laws.
2. No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any
duty of tonnage. The tax in question is not a duty of tonnage. If a passenger-ship of five hundred tons ,comes into
New York without passengers, the law imposes no tax. This
is not an impost or duty on imports; a human being is not an
import. (New York v. Miln, 11 Peters, 132, 136; 12 Wheat.
437.)
The authority of Congress over imports was carried to its
utmost verge in Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 442. It was
there held, that th right to sell articles imported and having
paidduties could not be taxed while the articles remained. in
the original package; that the importer by paying duties acquired a right to sell; that they could not be specifically
taxed till bulk was broken and they were mingled with the
mass of property subject to State taxation. (See opinion of
Chief Justice Taney, 5 How. 574, and of Justice McLean,
ib. 587.) This reasoning is inapplicable to a free human being. If he is exempt from taxation when entering the State,
he 'must remain so always. If he can once float on the waters of New York- or stand on her soil, exempt from taxation, no ingenuity can fix a time when he becomes subject to
taxation. He is a perpetual exempt. Unless the plaintiff in
error showed a prohibition on the State to lay this tax, it fell
within, the general taxing power of the State.
3d. The tax in question is an indispensable part of a health
and quarantine system, which is the exclusive subject of State
jurisdiction.
Under this head Mr. Van Buren traced minutely the history of the New York health and quarantine laws from their
earliest institution. The tax in question was first laid in 1798,
precisely as now. (3 Greenl. Laws of Newr York, 388.)' -.The
site of the marine hospital was purchased and the hospital
built by the State; frequent appropriations had been made
from the State treasury to meet deficiencies in the fund. It
was now'inadequate to defray the charges upon it. (3 Greenl.
305; ib. 455; Laws of New York, 1804, ch. 469,. 1805, ch. 31,
1809, ch. 66; 2 Rev. Laws, 534.) The rates had been frequently adjusted so as to meet the expenditures with the least burden,

376

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Van Buren.

on the passengers. (Laws of New York, 1843, ch.213; 1844, ch.
316.) The original and declared object of the tax was to pay
the expense of guarding the city against infectious and pestilential diseases brought in from abroad. This object had been
steadily adhered to. The occasional and temporary diversion
of an accidental surplus furnished no exception. It was inevitable where claims were pressed on the legislature, and had
been more than. made good by advances from the State treasury. The fact "that some might pay the tax who did not receive medical aid did not make the tax illegal. The same was
true of all quarantine charges. A quarantine and health system could not be otherwise maintained. The pilot system
was maintained in part by compulsory charges on those who
refused to take a pilot. '(Tate's Dig. Virginia Laws, p. 740,
4;-- Bullard and 'Curry's Dig. Louisiana Laws, A67 - 469.)
Taxes on'passengers for the support of hospitals were laid in
Delaware, Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Louisiana. They had
been levied ever since the adoption of the Constitution. (2
Laws of Delaware, 1357; 7 Smith's Laws of Pennsylvania, p.
20, § 21; Laws of Louisiana, 18,12, No. 158, p. 458; Dorsey's
Laws of Marylaid, 1601.) It was not true that Congress
exercised exclusive authority over the foreign transportation.
Pennsylvania compelled German passenger-ships to keep a
physician on board, to attend to passengers gratis, and to pay
an interpreter to prove to its authorities a compliance with
the law. (7 Smith, p. 29, ch. 4488.)
Mr. Van Buren then examined the quarantine laws of the
Atlantic States, and showed that all of them arrested ships,
diseharged cargo, if necessary, and destroyed it, charging expenses on cargo, master, owner, and consignee, at discretion.
He referred to the following statutes: - Rev. Stat. of Maine,
p. 186, § 27; Rev..Stat. of Massachusetts, 212; Laws of 1816,
ch. 44, §§ 6, 7; Rev. Stat. of Rhode Island, p. 264, § 5, 6;
Statutes of Connecticut, p. 621, § 12; Elmer's Digest of the
.Laws of New Jersey, p. 133, § 3; Purdon's Digest of Pennsylvania Laws, 632; 2 Laws of Delaware, 1357; Laws of Mary-.
land, 1793, ch. 56; 2 Rev. Stat. of Virginia, p. 297, § 13; 1
Rev. Stat. of North Carolina, 496; 6 Statutes at Lar.,e of
South Carolina, 472; Law of Georgia of December 14, L793;
Aikin's Alabama Digest, 352; 1 Lislet's Digest of the Laws of
Louisiana; 525.
.To the argument that section ninth, article first, of the Constitution, prohibiting Congress from forbidding, prior to 1808,
the migration or importation of such persons as the Staes shall
think proper to admit, gives Congress exclusive jurisdiction
over the admission of persons into the States, he replied, that

-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

377

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Van Buren.

this section applies exclusively to slaves, It was so understood
by the framers of the Constitution. (Federalist, No. 42; 3 Mad.
Papers, 1388, 1390, 1391, 1429.) It has been so held by this
court. (9 Wheat. 206; 15 Peters, 513.) The section recog-.
nizes the right of the States to admit or forbid. If -it gave
Congress power to tax the admission of whites, it would not
destroy the concurrent power of State taxation. The authority given to Congress to tax the importation of persons shows
such a tax is not an impost. The power to lay imposts 'the
general government has by another grant. To the argument
that this tax violates subdivision sixth, section ninth, article first,
of the Constitution, which forbids giving a preference through
a regulation of commerce to the ports of one State over those
of another, he replied, that the restrictions in section ninth were
all imposed on Congress. He examined them to show that
none referred to Sfate legislation. State taxation was notoriously unequal. The Constitution of the United States in no
degree forbids this. He instanced the rates of:pilotage, wharf
and harbour charges, personal taxes, &c. This tOx was not
"a regulation of commerce." It was i confusion of terms to
complain of a tax as oppressive, and at thesame time as giving
a preference to one port over another. The preference, if any,
was caused by the legislation of other States.
It was urged that New York might defray the expense of
the hospital and health establishment from other sources within her undisputed control. This was true. But ought she to
do so ? Was it not just that this burden should be borne by
those who created it? Beyond this, was it unconstitutional
that the expense should be thus defrayed? The last was the
only question which the court could pass upon. It was suggested that Congress should assume the charge of this subject.
The poweis of Congress are given to it as the legislature of
the Union; in no other capacity can it act. (6 Wheat. 424.)
The power of Congress to lay and. collect taxes is limited to
the objects of paying the debt and -providing for the common
defence and general. welfare. of the United States, a~id these
objects are enumerated. (Federalist, No, 41.) Would this
justify Congress in laying a tax to protect the health of New
York afid persons arriving there? The power over exports is
confined to this State; jurisdiction over persons in our territory
belongs to New York,' Undef" such circumstances, with what
wi dom, skill, or advantage could Congress interfere? (Bald-,
win's Views, 194- 197.) The State legislation heretofore referred to shows, that, since' the adoption of the Constitution,
this whole subject has been exclusively controlled by State
legislation. This is a practical construction ot the Constitu32 *

378

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. Van Buren.

tion of great weiglt. This court has said, a contemporary ex.position of the Constitution of the United States, adopted in
practice and acquiesced in for a number. of years, fixes the
meaning of it, and the court -will not control it. (Stewart v.
Land, 1 Cranch',.309.)
Mr. Van Buren adverted to the printed points submitted to
the c6urt, and insisted, on the whole case, I. That, if tjhe law in question be "a regulation of commerce," it is such a Tegulation as the State has a right to make.
The right has never been granted exclusively to the Union or
prohibited to the States. ,Itrests with the State.
II. If Congress might legislate on the same subject, it has
not done. so in a manner confliting with this law.
III. The tax laid-is not an impqst or duty of tonnage.
The. court needed no assurance, he added, that the people of
New York feel a deep interest in the decision of thig question.
The law has stood for half a'century, has been adopted and
approved by Congress; system has grown -up under it; with
an exposed situation, the health and lives of her citizens and
of the whole people have been protected by it. Our State had
not been a large claimant on either the justice or bounty of
the Union; yet she is believed to have contributed something
to its aggrandizement. The strength, the intellect, and the
lives of her citizens have been freely tendered to its support.
She has cheerfully poured into its lap, as her alma mater, the
immense resources collected at her port. Her insolvent laws
have been prostrated by the judgment in Sturges v. Crowninshield. This very power "to regulate commerce," under
which her .splendid schemes of internal improvement have
been projected and executed, has not been wielded to dig her
canals, or, to any considerable extent, to deepen her rivers or to
protect her harbours. Nay, the effort of the State to aid them,
and to encourage the brilliant but unrequited genius of one of
her sons, was deemed by this court to conflict with this overreaching power of. Congress, and fell a victim to judicial condemnation. She indulges the hope, at least, that it will not
now be so construed as to prostrate her institutions of public
health which have defied the constructions of half a century
of time, and of transcendent ability. She saw with unaffected
concern the prodigious strides made by this power to regulate
commerce towards engrossing .and consolidating the power of
the Union. This may well be regarded as the mastodon of
-construction, starting from this bench, and in its giant strides
trampling upon the rights of the States and their s6 vereignty.
Fortunately, it is only known to the present'day by its colossal
bones, scattered through the reports 'of the early- opinions of

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

379

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. J. P. Hall.

members of this court. Its march was arrested, its life terminated, in New York v. Miln. The noble ground then assumed was
maintained in the License Cases. He had no right to advise
the court, but, as an humble citizen contributing a mite towards
public opinion, there could be no impropriety in alluding to the
jealousy felt towards this branch of the government. The life.
tenure of its judges removes them from the direct effect of public opinion. Selected by the general government, they are yet
in some, sort arbiters-between it and the States. It *isdesirable
they should secure the affections of the people. Their recent
decisions have largely effected this, and the people regard these
as indications that popular and liberal impulses have reached
this bench. To -confirm this, they have only to adhere to the
just rules already laid down, to practise the great maxim which
secures respect and renders certain the rights of property and
life, Stare decisis. In the case at bar, New York asks nothing
but justice at their hands. Granting much, yielding much, to
the wealth, glory, and power of the Union, -a Union in which
she feels a just pride, and the value of which she never stopped
to calculate, - she does not feel that it is immodest to ask, (if.
it be considered asking,) that she may avail herself of her local
position to sustain in part the expense to her citizens, and the
danger to their health and lives, which attend her exposure and
the Union's commerce, - that she may arrest and purify the
stream before it enters her veins, that the blood of life to the
rest of the Uni6n may not be infection and death to her.

Nomus v. CITY or BosToN.
Mr. J. Prescott-Hall,for the plaintiff in error.
The object of the writ of error in. this case is to test the
constitutionality of an act of the legislature of the State of
Massachusetts, passed in the year 1837, entitled, "An act relating to alien passengers."
With the general question involved in the cause, this court.
is entirely familiar. It is a -branch of constitutional Jaw
which has occupied its attention at intervals during the "last
thirty years.
The controversy with regard to the powers of the several
States over commerce and navigation, and their. authority to
control these- and analogous -subjects, supposed to be beyond
their jiirisdiction, began as far back as the year 1819, with the
case of McCulloch v. Maryland (4 Wheat. 316), when it
waas here decided, that the act of Congress establishing a bank
of the United States was not. only constitutional, but that the
States had no warrant for taxing its branches,, or power, by

380

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. J. P. Hall.

--

these or other means, to impede their action, or drive them beyond theik territorial limits.
In strict analogy with this case was that of Weston v. The
City of Charleston (2 Peters, 449), in the year 1829, when this
court held that a tax. imposed by a State on stock issued for.
loans to the United States was unconstitutional, and could not
be collected.
The question as to the power of the States over commerce
and navigation was directly presented by Gibbofis v. Ogden,
in the year 1824, when it was held that the State of New York
.could not grant to any of its citizens an exclusive right to traverse the great bays and navigable waters of that State with
vessels propelled by steam, to the exclusion of those from other
States, licensed or enrolled under acts of Congress.
These discussions led to another, in the year 1827, when this
court decided that the State of Maryland could not compel
merchants, engaged in the business of importing and selling
foreign goods by the bale or package, to take out licenses for
the same, and to pay a sum of money, or tax, for the privilege.
(Brown v. State of Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419.)
Then followed, after an interval of ten years, the case of
The City of New York v. Miln (11 Peters, 102), which is supposed -to control the present controversy and recognize the
power of a State to regulate, in some degree, the commerce
and navigation of the whole country, even on the tide-waters
which wash our shores.
Nor will such controversies cease, perhaps, until other kindred subjects have beep exjlored and examined; for New York
claims now, and exercises, the power of imposing burdens upon
the disposition of foreign merchandise in its original condition
as imported, when sold in a particular manner, that is, by auction.
The recent decisions of this court upon the license laws of
New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island may be,
also, referred to, as bearing materially upon the reasoning we
must. employ, in expressing our views upon the subject now
under consideration; but as they will undergo a critical examination in the progress of the argument, they are here merely
glanced at, in passing.
This brief statement of the course of legislation and decision
upon-these subjects brings us back to the case now before the
court. ' It arises under the. act of Massachusetts before referred
to,'passed in the year 1837, shortly after the case of The City
of New York-v. Miln had opened the eyes of her legislators
to this new source of revenue.
This law provides, that, upon the arrival of a vessel in the

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

381

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. J. P. Hall.

waters of Massachusetts with alien passengers on .board, an
officer of the city or town where such passengers are ,to be
landed shall stop the vessel, and examine into the condition of
its passengers.
If any lunatics or infirm persons, inconpetent to maintain
themselves, are found, they cannot be permitted to land till se.
curity is given against their becoming chargeable within ten
years; and no other alien passenger shall be permitted to land
until two dollars are paid for each, to be appropriated for the
support of foreign paupers.
By another proviiion of the same law, -the State pilots are.
xequired to-anchor vessels at particular places, suitable for the.
examinatio. of such passengers; and all this may be done
while the ship is yet, comparatively, at sea,- more than a cannon-shot fr6m the shore, and beyond, the jurisdiction of Massachusetts. The examination may be made, and the tax is
exacted, before the pa.sage-money is earned; before.,the .voyage is completed;, while the insurance is running;'. before
the passenger touches the soil of the State; while all is in
itinere.
The validity of the act is defended upon the ground that it
is a poor-law; that it is a police regulation; that the State has
a system of patiper laws, of which this is a part; that the
money, when collected, is expended in the support of foreign
paupers; -and that, as the means are appropriate to the end, the
law itself may be upheld as valid.
The States have the.power, beyond doubt, to pass poor-laws
and make police regulations. But the question is, Can they
provide for paupers, foreign or domestic, by a tax upon the
commerce or navigation of the United States? Can they levy
contributions upon aliens and citizens of other States, on shipboard, for the support of their police regulations and pauper systems? Are they not forbidden the exercise of this power by
the Constitution of the United States. which is the paramount
law of the land? The means may be appropriate to attain the
end, if the State- has the power to use them; but have, they any
such power? And that is the whole'question before the court.
If the tax were imposed upon merchandise imported from
foreign countries, the mealis to accomplish the object would be
as appropriate as. any other; and Massachusetts, werd she an
independent nation, might employ them at her discretion. But
when she came into the Union, in 1789, she gave up, in ex.press terms, all control over foreign commerce, although she
was more interested'in it at that time than any other State.
But* she neVer did tax foreign commerce, be it observed,
when she had the power to do so, for the support of paupers;

382

SUPREME COURT.
Passentger Cases. -Arguznent

of Mr. J. P. Hall.

on the contrary, for more than half a century, she maintained
her own system by her other means. The tempting bait was.
first thrown out in the year 1837, by the case of Miln v. New
York, and she seized it with avidity.
In our view of the law in question, it'imposes a tax on the'
commerce of the country for the benefit of Massachusetts and
its treasury. We consider it as a direct invasion of the' power
of Congress to regulate navigation and trade, and therefore as
unconstitutional and void.
It is not an inspection law, nor a quarantine or police regulation; and if it were, the States cannot lay taxes on the commerce of the country, or any part of it, to build up and support
police or quarantine establishments, although we admit the incidental expenses and ordinary fees of inspection belonging to
sanatory regulations may be exacted by the States.
But the law in question imposes a duty on imports without
tht assent of Congress; for there may be importations of men
as well as merchandise. The ninth section of the first article of the Constitution of the United States) when speaking of
"the migration or importation" '"ofpersons," is not restricted
to any particular class of peisons. The words are general.
They are applicable to all persons, bond or free, and show that
the whole power over such importations is confided. to Congress.
Nor is the use. of the word "importation," when connected
with "persons," peculiar to the Constitution. An act passed
by Congress in 1793 is entitled, "An act to prevent the importation of certain persons into certain States: where, by the
laws thereof, theif admission is prohibited." And Judge Marshall held, in the case of the Brig Wilson (1 Brockenbrough,
437), that the prohibition of the law compreh 'nded freemen
as well as slaves. Various English statutes, applicable to the
British Isles, wher6 slavery, does not exist, have been passed
to regulate or impede or prohibit the importation of persons,
free in their own countries, and who would be so in England.
(Stat. 1 and 2"P. & M., c. 4; 5 Eliz., c. 20; Jacob's Law
Dict., Art. ,gyptians.)
And it may be remarked here, that the very act of Congress
before referred to proves that the whole power of regulating or
prohibiting the importation of persons is vested exclusively in
the- general government. It was passed upon a petition from
North Carolina, setting forth that the French had set free their
slaves in Guadaloupe, and the aid of Congress was invoked to
protect the institutions "of th South from the dangerous contact of-free persons of color. The State felt its want of power
over the subject. She knew it was vested in Congrefs alone,

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

383

Passenger Cases.-Argument of MIr. J. P.,HalL

and to Congress she turned for relief. That body immediately
prohibited the "importation" of "negroes, mulattoes, and persons of color," free as well as slaves, into any State which by
law had prohibited or should prohibit the importation of any
such person or persons. And this act sanctioned to this day
the legislation of the Southern States, to a great extent, upon
this very subject.
The act of the State of Massachusetts now under examination might also be regarded, were it necessary, as imposing a
duty on tonnage; being a tax on passengers by the poll. The
number of passengers to be taken on board, or imported, in
ships of the United States, is limited by law to a fixed relation, or ratio, with the tonnage of the vessel; and as only two
passengers are allowed for every five tons, a tax of two dollars
on each person is a tax on the vessel of eighty cents a ton.
The question before the court is a question as to power, aud
of power alone. It is a question as to the power on the pait
of a State to tax the commerce of the Union, to raise a revenue for her own uses. Give Massachusetts the authority to
collect money from passengers for the support of paupers, and
see how quickly she will extend the system. If it is advisable
to support emigrants when in a State of destitution, it is also
desirable to educate their children, so that they may not become a burden upon the Commonwealth at a future day.
The expense of free schools is far beyond that of pauper
asylums; and if Massachusetts has the power to raise revenue
by these means for bne purpose,'so may-she for the other.
It is true Chief Justice Shaw, in this very case of Norris v.
The City of Boston, now before the eourt, restricts the power
of the State to the object for which the tax islaid. He supposes that the States may impose small burdens of this kind,
.but are prohibited from their extension. He says (4 Met..
-297), - " If, under the form of pilotage, a large sum of money
should be demanded of any inward-bound vessel, the effect of
which would be to raise a revenu6 from foreign commerce, the
pretence of its being pilotage would not make it legal. And
this suggestion answers an argument much pressed, that if the
State could demand two dollars in respect to each passenger, it
could demand two hundred, or two -thousand, and so raise a
large revenue for any and all'purposes. We think it is plain,
that, if \any such large sum were exacted of passengers, it
would indicate the real purpose and design of the law to be to
raise revenue, and not in good faith to carry into- effect a useful
and beneficent-poor-law, - useful and beneficent to such aliens
themselves; and therefore it would be in contravention of the
Constitution and laws of the United States, and void."

384

SUPREME

COURT.

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mfr. J. P. Hall.

With great respect, we submit that these reasons for the decision of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts are not, strong
enough to sustain it. No court can determine the constitutionality of a law'by the-extent to which its purposes are carried;
for if a' State has the power to pass a law, she alone can limit
its-exercise. The courts cannot regulate or control the discretion of legislators; and if their power be once admitted, all
control over them is surrendered up. The chief justice of this
court has said, in express terms, that "upon this question the
object and motive of the State are of no importance, and cannot influence the decision. It is a questi6n of power." .
Can the Supreme Court of- Massachusetts say that its legislature may impose a tax of two dollars upon each alien passenger, but cannot increase it -to five? Can the court inquire
into the condition of the treasury, count foreign paupers, ascertain the- extent of their wants, and so, determine whether the
tax was designed for constitutional purposes or not? Is there
any limit in the power of A State to tax the property of its
own citizens in any way and to any extent it may see. fit?
Must not the same authority which selects the objects of taxation determine its extent also? Where is the limit? Who
can define its bounds? Surely the courts cannot, and it has
always been held that the power to tax is a power to destroy.
(2 Peters,.467; 4 Wheaton, 431.)
The money to be derived from the tax in the present case is
hot. devoted to the use of tho~e particular aliens who pay it,
but to all aliens subsequently to arrive. The strong are to pay
for the feeble, the rich for the poor. Passengers -arrive at Boston, .New York, and New Orleans, who have no purpose of
remaining in those places. Their destination is westward,
towards the interior States, who have no soil touching upon
that ocean which, by the Constitution, is as free to them as to
the States which are washed by its waves.
Emigration is encouraged by the Constitution of the United
States. Its prohibition and impediments in its.way were subThe
jects of complaint in the Declaration of Independence.
laws of Congress encourage and protect emigration. The condition of mankind solicits it; ships are given up entirely to the
importation of passengers, their decks being loaded With responsible beings instead of merchandise. Steam has added its
power to that of, the winds, and vessels propelled by its ener-

'"gies will- be hereafter exclusively devoted to this great branch
of commerce.
New York and Boston and New Orleans have almost a
monopely of this business, and they seize the occasion to raise
revenue from it. It may be well to regulate this matter; it

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

385

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. J. P..Hall.

may be expedient to raise a fund for paupers; it is kind and
benevolent to do so: but the question is, How can it be lawfully
done? Who shall make this regulation of cormerce, - Congress or the States? Congress has the power to make the
burden uniform; the States cannot. Massachusetts taxes the
passenger two dollars; New York but one.
Those who arrive in Boston, for the most part, pay through to other States.
Those who come to New York, oftentimes without touching
at the city, ascend the Hudson, and continue their progress
without ceasing, until they reach the great prairies of the West.
Yet each and all of these countless thousands leave a portion of their property, destined for their own use in other
States, in the treasuries of these two ocean powers, and for the
benefit of persons, other than themselves. The Norwegian is
taxed for the Frenchman, the Dane for the Irishman, the German for the Englishman, and all for the benefit of New York
and Massachusetts. If these two States have the burdens of
foreign pauperism, so have they also the benefits of foreigif
commerce. The sails of their ships whiten every sea, while
the internal States, shut out from the ocean, have no such
benefits in the same degree.
The tax of Massachusetts is not applicable to such paupers
as arrive at the same time with the rich and the healthful.
Her laws guard the Commonwealth sedulously against' this
burden, by requiring those who are in the condition of becoming a charge upon the State to give ample security for ten
ve6.rs against such charge before they are permitted to land.
The pauper gives security; those who are above his condition
pay a tax, -not for themselves, but for others.
The law of Massachusetts discriminates, taxing aliens alone.
If it may do this, it may discriminate among nations. Treaties
would have nothing to do with the subject, for. the States cannot make them; nor could Congress restrain them, if the power
in question is a mere police regulation or sanatory measure.
Congress cannot regulate or restFain the States in matters of
police and health, as each State has unlimited power over these
subjects, to be exercised according to its own discretion.
If States may tax those who arrive by sea, they may tax
those who travel by land. They .may favor the North and
burden the South; -and New York, in her laws, does discriminate, in relation to this very subject, favorably to New Jersey,
Connecticut, and Rhode Island, and adversely towards the other
States. She takes upon herself to say, that coastwise passengers shall all be taxed; but that those from contiguous States,
because of the frequency of intercourse, shall not be burdened
to the same degree as those who are more remote.
VoL. vi.
33

386

SUPREME COURT.
Pas-senger Cases. -Argument

of Mr. J. P. HaIL.

With entire confidence, we.submit that this cannot be done.
New York cannot discriminate between the Southern and the
Eastern States in favor of the latter and against the'former.
She has no power over the subject. Citizens of one State have
the privileges and immunities of citizens in all the other States,
and they cannot be limited or curtailed in their rights by State
authority. Even Congress could not do this, as its legislation
must be uniform throughout the nation.
But the act of Massachusetts taxes aliens who come here for
temporary purposes of business. "Alien passengers in steamers
and ships of *ari whether foreign or domestic, are brought
within its terms. The packets which ply constantly, in all
seasons of the year, between Boston and Liverpool, are subject
to its demands, and must obey them.
The comity of nations forbids -the exercise of this-power to
this extent, for the very idea of taxation includes, or implies,
that of reciprocal rights and duties; of allegiance on one side,
and protection on the other.
"The power of legislation, and consequently of taxation,
operates on all the persbns and propertu belonging to the body
politic. This is an original principle, which has its foundation
in society itself." "All subjects over which the sovereign power
of a State -extends are objects of taxation; but those over which
it does not extend are, upon the soundest principles, exempt
froln taxation." ' "The sovereignty of a State extends to every
thing which exists by its own authority, or ig introduced by
its permission; but does it extend to those means which are
employed by Congress to carry into execution powers conferred
oii that body by the people of the United States? We think
not." (2 Peters, 563, 564; 4 Wheat. 429.).
Aliens and merchandise are not "introduced" into Massachusetts by her "permission," nor do commerce and navigation
exist by her "authority."
The persons and property of aliens
do not belong to the "body politic" of that State, and her
"sovereignty" does not extend to commerce and navigation,
nor to aliens before they come witain her jurisdiction. Until
landed, ' they are under the jurisdiction of the United States,
covered and protected by.their laws.
It will not be denied that Congress may impose taxes or duties at pleasure on men and merchandise, upon their importation, (within the limits of treaties.) without any objection as
to its constitutional right to do so. But suppose the power
were exercised by Congress; from whence would such authority
be derived? .Obviously, from the .power "to lay and collect
taxes, duties, impostq, and excises," and "to regulate commerce " The control of Congress over foreign commerce is

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

387

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. J. P. Hall.

unlimited, while that of the States has been given up to the
general government.
Massachusetts cannot raise a fund for her pahper system by
taxing the property of aliens on shipboard before it is landed
or made subject to her jurisdiction. She could lay no duty, for
instance, under the tariff of 1842, on "wearing apparel, and
other personal effects, not merchandise, professional books, instruments, implements and tools of trade, occupation or employment -of persons arriving in the United, States," because
this law declared that those articles should be exempt from
duty. And upon this subject Congress has legislated from the
beginning to the same effect.
Has not the general government, then, interposed its authority and prescribed the terms under which aliens shall come into
the ports of the United States,- not the ports of Boston and
New York, but the ports of the nation at large, each and all
of them, from the St. John's to the Rio Grande? Congress has
said that the personal effects, not merchandise, of aliens sball
be admitted exempt from duties. It has nowhere taxed their
persons, but has permitted them, so far as their legislation is
concerned, to come in free of charge. If the States cannot tax
the personal effects, not merchandise, of aliens because Congress has permitted them to be free, how can they tax their
persons, which, by clear implication, are to be free also?
Congress as often regulates commerce by permitting it to go
un.trammelled as it does by direct action. If that power were to
impose taxes upon specific articles enumerated in a tariff, and
omit all others, the latter would be free; for all articles not
directly charged with duty by some act of Congress are undoubtedly exempt therefrom. (The Liverpool Hero, 2 Gall.
188.)
No State can, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty
on imports except to carry out, as far as may be necessary,
their inspection laws; and this by the express words of the
.tenth section of the first article of the Constitution. But suppose that section had been omitted; could the States then impose duties upon imports while the eighth section remains,
which gives to Congress the entire control over the subject?
"From the vast inequality," says Chief Justice Marshall, "between the different States of the confederacy as to commercial
advantageg, few subjects were viewed with deeper interest, or
excited more irritation, than the manner in which the several
States exercised, or seemed disposed to exercise, the power of
laying duties on imports. From motives which were deemed
sufficient by the statesmen of that day, the general power of
taxation, indispensably necessary as it was, and jealous as the

388

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases. - Argument of Mr. . P. Hall.

States were of any encroachment on it, was so far 'abridged as
to forbid them to touch imports or exports, with the single exception which has been noticed. Why are they restrained
from imposing these' duties? Plainl r because, in the general
opinion, the interests of all would be best promoted by placing
the whole subject under the bontrol.of Congress."
It is obvious that the same power which imposes a light
duty can impose, a very heavy one; one which anpounts to a
prohibition. Questions of power do not depend on the degree
to which it may be exercised at all; it must be exercised at the
will of those. in whose hands it is placed." (4 Wheat. 438,
439.)
1
It is not denied by the plaintiff in error, that States can establish systems of pauper laws, which may include aliens as
well as natives; but they cannot tax. commerce or navigation
in order to procure the meafis for their support. For this purpose they must assess their own property and their own constituents, and not assume a power to tax, because of the benevolent objects for which the revenue is to be raised. If the end
will sanction the means, then all power of restraining taxation
is at an end.
We do not complain of any just exercise of a police power,
nor of inspection laws, nor demands for lists of passengers,
nor of acts to keep out pestilence or regulate the introduction
of persons *burdensome to the Commonwealth, nor of the
stopping of ships for examination merely. All these things
may be done, 'and yet no authority found in the States to
tax passengers, brought into the country in the due course of
commerce and navigation, for the purpose of supporting these
measures.
If the States may impose these burdens, they may exelude
passengers altogether. If they can tax aliens as -such, they
may expel them, when landed, by an oppressive exercise of the
power. If they tax on arrival, they may tax on departure, and
z
there is no limit to the power.
It is supposed that' this case is governed by that of The City
of New York v. Miln; but upon examination it will be found
.that the action in that case was not founded upon any section
of the passenger law which imposed a tax upon them. It was
an action of debt, for the recovery of a penalty for not reporting
the names of the passengers. . The declaration averred that a
certain vessel arrived in the port of New York from Liverpool,
with passengers on board, and that the master did not make a
report in writing to the mayor of the city of the name,,place
of birth and last legal settlement, age, and occupation of the
several persons brought as Passengers on the ship, contrary to

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

389

Passenger Cases.-'Argument of Mr. J. P. Hall.

the provisions of the act of the State of New York, (partly recited in the declaration,) whereby an action accrued to the
plaintiff to demand from the defendant, the consignee of the
ship, the sum of seven thousand five hundred dollars. To
this declaration there was a demurrer and joinder.
The decision of the court was therefore confined to that part
of the act which requires the master, within twenty-four hours
after the arrival of his vessel, to make report of his passengers,
but the question as to the power of taxation did not arise. It
is true there were many general remarks upon constitutional
law, made by the judges who gave opinions; but the points before the court and the questions passed upon were those above
referred to.
Chief Justice Taney, in remarking upon this case of New
York v. Miln, observes, that "1the question as to the power of
the States upon this subject was very fully discussed at the
bar. But no opinion was expressed upon it by the court, because the case did not necessarily involve it, and there was'
grea.t diversity of opinion on the bench. Consequently the
point was left open, and has never been decided in any subsequent case in this court." (5 How. 584.)
But can the maritime States, by their own acts, prohibit the
importation of settlers for the public lands, or their migration
to those unoccupied regions of the interior which-are ready to
welcome their approach? Congress has legislated upon the
subject of emigration and naturalization, the exclusive power
over which is given to that body by the Constitution. It has
also legislated concerning the carrying of passengers, prescribing the space they shall be entitled to occupy on shipboard,
the food and water with which they shall be supplied, and the
privileges they shall enjoy.
The institutions and laws of the United States encourage
the emigration of foreigners, and our untilled soil requires the
stimulating power of their industry. Can the maritime States,
then, by their own legislation, restrain or destroy that commerce which relates to the importation of passengers, and their
migration to other States open for their receptiol?.- The law
of Massachusetts prescribes some of the terms upon which
aliens may land upon her shores. If it can prescribe some, it
can prescribe others. it may establish burdensome or imnposible conditions, and so shut out emigrants altogether. Let it
not be forgotten that- this is a question of power exclusively.
Emigrants arrive in Boston destined for Iowa. This convenient eastern port is selected as a place of disembarkation, the
ultimate purpose being a permanent settlement elsewhere.
The passengers are not, as a matter of course, either diseased,
33*

390

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. J. P. Hall.

decrepit, or infirm. They may be young, above want, adventurous, and determined. Upon approaching the shores of their
first western port they are met by the tax-gatherer, who demands two dollars from. each man, each woman, and each child.
Having submitted to this exaction, the emigrants pass immediately on towards their long-sought home in the fertile regions of the West. When they arrive at the boundary of New
York another tax-gatherer may meet them, and, under the pretence of pauperism and the burdens of poverty, he may demand
two dollars also from each emigrant, for the privilege of crossing. the borders of another State. For, if Massachusetts can
tax them as they come in by sea, New York may tax them
also as they journey through her -territory by land; and this
may be repeated in every State through which they may desire
to pass.
It is submitted to the court, that the States have no such
power. We repeat, that although the States may pass poorlaws, establish sanatory regulations, and provide for inspections, yet they cannot-taE. any branch of the foreign commerce
of the country, to aid them in their projects, be they charitable
or not. The power cannot be'derived from the subject to
which the money is to be applied, but must exist, if it exist at
all, altogether independently of such objects.
The whole -subject of emigration, so far as it is connectedwith commerce and navigation, is under .the control of Congress, and there it should remain. That body can exerdise the
power wisely, discreetly, and disinterestedly, for the benefit of.
the whole country, without permitting any improper burden
to be placed upon the maritime States. Their laws will be
uniform; those of the States must necessarily be diverse, - the
tax in Massachusetts being two dollars, while in New York it
is but one. The sovereign power may annex what conditions
it pleases to-the admission of foreigners within its jurisdiction,
or prohibit it al.together. But that sovereign power, ia 'this
country,, is in the United States, and the whole subject is committed, with great propriety, by the Constitution, to the Congress of the whole people, and not to the States in their corporate capacities.
But the- passengers referred to are not in all cases emigrants,
coming here for permanent settlement. In many cases there
are merchants, visiting our shores for purposes of commerce
merely, and we submit that to tax them is to tax the commence of the country, which cannot be .done by the States.
The act of Massachusetts is also open to another objection,
which is obvious. The tax is not specifically on the alien passengers themselves, although it may be so indirectly. It for-

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

391

Passenger Cases.-Argument of Mr. J. P. Hall.

bids the landing bf any such persons until the master, owner,
conignee, or agent shall have paid two dollars for eaeh passenger so landing.
We submit- that. this is a direct impost upon the masters or
owners, in direct relation to their commercial avocations; it is
a tax upon the master as master, upon the owner because he
imports emigrants rather than merchandise. Massachusetts
cannot compel a merchant to pay two dollars for each chest of
tea he. may import into Boston; and to impose upot him a
"duty'of two dollars upon each person he may import is as direct an interference with the commerce of the country as a
.tax upon baggage -or personal effects would be. Passengers are
brought in as freight; they take the place of cargo, and occupy all the decks of the ship. To tax the passengers is~to tax
the freight; and if the latter cannot be done, the former cannot.
The business of importing emigrants has become-a matter of
*great iAportance to the merchants of New York and Boston,
who.derive large emoluments from this employment of their
ships, the receipts for passage-money being counted by rmil-lions instead of thousands. Passage-nioney 'and freight are in
law identical, and are governed by, the same rules. (1 Pet.
Adm. 123 - 125.)
The navigation of the country is under the exclusive control, of Congress; -and if it were under that of the States, what
would bie the consequence? Massachusetts, having power over
the subject, might impose a tax of five dollars upon each emigrant imported in ships other than her own' and by this means
secure a monopoly, as far as this -could be done by legislation,
for the, vessels belonging to her own citizens. Un.iformity in
the laws of commerce and navigation would be destroyed, and
we should go back in effect to the old Confederation. Jealousies would spring up, and retaliation begin, and this entire
branch of' the commerce of the country would fall into chaos.
Thirty years ago, during the steamboat controversy, Cbnnecticut pased retaliatory laws against New York; and if the States
can xegulate the conditions upon which passengers may land,
these conditions may and would vary in all the maritime
States.
They -do so'n6w. In this respect there is no uniformity in
the.State laws; and hence the whole subject should be and is
referred -to Congress. - That body has the entire control over
our foreigi relations, which are wisely placed by the Constitution beyond State interference.
If Massachusetts can tax passengers arriving within hei jurisdiction before they come under the control of her laws, so
may New Mexico and California, when States. These latter

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice McLean's Opinion.

would have a strong, temptation to exercise the right at this
time, and might make New York herself. feel the weight of
State power. For if States can lay an impost upon aliens,
they may also upon natives, as New York herself now does.
She does' not discriminate between citizens of 'the United
States and foreigners but imposes the same, tax ujon both.
Neither is. she particularly nice as to the objects to which the
revenue thus raised is appropriated.'
To support an establishment for the reform of yQung offenders she gives eight thousand dollars per 'annum ; a large donation is.bestowed upon her hospitals and dispensaries; and finally, shbuld there be a surplus of revenue thus derived, the State
treasury itself becomes the depository of all balances -which
remain. If she has the power to impose the tax, and raise
the revenue, she doubtless has the power to dispose of it in
any way she may. see fit. She may defray out of it all the
expenses of her civil-list, maintain her schools, and support her
paupers.. The ease with which revenue may be raised by
means of imposts upon commerce presents great temptations to.
State power. The convenience of the sys.tem'is obvious. If
it can be upheld under the Constitution of the United States,
it will be resorted to by every State upon the Atlantic and the
Pacific, and indirectly a large portion of the rovenuesof -the
States will be derived from commerce, and navigation. The
temptation would not be resisted, and hence those who framed
the great charter under which the States are restrained wisel#
took the power to regulate commerce from these sovereignties,
and bestowed it upon Congress.
We submit to the court, that the law of Massachusetts now
under consideration is unconstitutional and void.
Mr. Justice McLEAN.
SmiTH v. TURNER.

Under the general denomination of' health laws in New
York, and by the seventh section of an act relating to the
marine'hospital, it is provided, that " the heilth-cdmmissioner
shall demand and be entitled to receive, and in case of neglect
or refusal to pay shall sue for and recover,..in his name of office, the following sums from' the magter of every vessel that
shall arrive in the port of New York, viz. :CC
1. From the master of every vessel 5fom a foreign port,
for himself and each cabin passenger, one dollar and fifty
cents; for each steerage passenger, mate, sailor, or mariner, one
dollar.
"2. From the master of each coasting-vessel, for each person

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

393

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice McLean's Opinion.

on board, twenty-five cents; but no coasting-vessel from the
States of New.Jersey, Connecticut, and Rhode Island shall pay
for more than one voyage in each month, computing from the
first voyage in each year."
The eighth section provides that the money so received shall
be denominated "hospital moneys." And the ninth section
gives "each master paying hospital moneys a right to demand
and recover from- each person the sum paid on his account."
The tenth section declares any master, who shall fail to make
the above payments within twenty-four hours after the arrival
of his vessel in the port, shall forfeit the sum of one hundred
dollars. By the eleventh section, the commissioners of health
are required to account annually to the Comptroller of the State
for all moneys received by them for the use of the marine hospital; "and if such moneys shall, in any one year, exceed the
sum necessary to defray the expenses of their trust, including
their own salaries, and exclusive of such expenses as are to be
borne and paid as a part of the contingent charges of the city
of New York, they shall pay over such surplus to the treasuer
of the Society for the Reformation of Juvenile Delinquents in
the city of New York, for the use ofthe society."
. The plaintiff in error was master of the British ship Henry
Bliss, which vessel touched at the port of New York in the
month of June, 1841, and landed two hundred and ninety
steerage passengers. The defendant in error brought an action
of debt on the statute against the plaintiff, to recover one dollar
for each of the above passengers. A demurrer was filed, on the
ground that the statute of New York was a regulation of commerce, and in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States, The Supreme Court of the State overruled the demurrer, and the Court of Errors affirmed the judgment. This
brings before this court, under the twenty:fifth section of the
Judiciary Act, the conptitutionality of the New York statute.
I will consider the case under two general heads :1. Is the power of Congress to regulate commerce an exilusive power?
2. Is the statute of New York a regulation of commerce ?
In the eighth section of the first article of the Constitution
it is declared that Congress shall have power "1to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States, and
with the Indian tribes."
Before the adoption of the Constitution, the 'states, respectively, exercised sovereign power, under no other limitations
than those contained in the Articles of Confederation. By the
third section of the sixth article of that instrument, it was declared that "1no State shall lay any imposts or duties which may

S

PIVEITE COURT.

Passenger Case.-Mr. Juatiae McLean's Opiinien.

interfere with any stipulations in treaties entered into by the,
United States.in Congress assembled."; and -this -was the only
commercial restiction oif State power.
As might have been expected, this independent legislationi.
being influenced by local interests alid policy, became conflicting -and hostile, insomuch that a change of the system was fe.
cessary to.preserve the fruits of the Revolution. - This led to
the adoption of the Federal Constitution.
It isadmitted that, in regard to the commercial,, as to other
powers, the States cannot be held to liave parted with any of
the attributes of sovereignty which are not plainly vested in the
Federal government and inhibited to the States, either expressly or by necessary implication. This impl'icatiom may'arise
from the nature -of the power.
In the shme.section which gives the commercial power tQ
Congress,. is given power "1to borrow money on the credit of
the United States," "to establish a uniform rule of naturalization," "to, coin mbney," "to establish post-offices and poo
roads," "1to constitute tribunals inferior to the Suleme Court,"
"todefine and punish piracies and felonies committed on the
high seas," "to declare war," "to provide and maintain.:a,
navy," &c., and "to make all laws which .shall be necessay
and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powerm."
Only one, of these powers * in the Constitution, exprely
inhibited to the States ; and yet, from the nature of the othir
powers, they are equally beyon.. State jurisdiction.
In the case of Holmes v. Jdnnison 14 Peters, 570,',the- chief
justice, in giving his own and the opinion of -three of his breth
ren, says: - "All the powers which relate to our. foreign inter,.
course are confided to the general government. Congress ham.
the power to regulate commerce, to define and punish piracies,"
&c. "1Where an aiuthority is granted to the Union, to which a.
similar'anthority in the States would be absolutely and totally
contradictory and repugnant, there the authority to the. Federal.
government is recessarily exclusive, and the' same power cannot be constitutionally exercised by the States." (p. 574.)
Ik']Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 23, the court say: - 1!We'
are altogether incapable of comprehending, how two! distinct
wills can, at the same time, be exercised in relation to the samws
subject, to be. effectuvl, and at the same time compatible with
one another. ' ?
The court, again, in treating of the commercial -power, say,
in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9, Wheat. 196-: -" It is the powe. tov
regulate; that is to prescribe the.rule .by which commerce is t#
be governed. This power, like all others vested in Congress,
is comjlete. in itself, may be-exercised to its.utmost extenit, ahd

JANUARY TERM

1849,

3

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice McLean's%pinion.

acknowledges no limitations, other than are- presciibed in the
Constitution." "The sovereignty of Congress, though limited
to specified objects, is plenary as to those objects." "The
power over commerce with foreign nations and among the
several States is vested in Congress as absolutely as it would
be ina single government having in its constitution the same
restrictions," &c.- And in the same case, page 199:"Where, then, each-government exercises the power of taxation, neither is exercising the power of the other'; but when a
State proceeds-to regulate commerce with foreign nations, or
among the several. States, it is exercising the very power that
is granted to Congress, and is doing the very thing which Congress is authorized to do."
And Mr. Justice Johnson, who gave a separate opinion in the
ame case, observbs, -" The power to regulate commerce here
meant to be granted was the power to regulate commerce
which previously existed in the States." •And again,.--t ' The
power to regulate commerce is necessarily exclusive."
In Brown v. The State' of Maryland, 12 Peters, 446, 'the
court say, -1 It is noi, therefore, matter of surprise that the
grant of commerciail power should be as extensive as the mischief, and should comprehend all foreigii commerce and all
commerce among the States." This question, they remark,
"was considered in the case of Gibbons v. Ogden, in which it
was declared to be complete in itself, and to acknowledge no
limitations," &c. And Mr. 'Justice Baldwin, in the, case of
Groves v. Slaughter,.15 Peters, 511, says,-" That the power
of Congress to regulate commerce among t#e several States is
exclusive of any interference by the States has been, in my
opinion, conclusively settled by the solemn opinions of this
court," in the two cases above cited. And he observes, - " If
these decisions are not to be taken as the established construction of this clause of the Constitution, I know of none which
are not yet open to doubt."
Mr. Justice Story, in the case of New York v. Miln,'11
Peters, 158, in speaking of the doctrine of concurrent power in
the Stat~s to regulate commerce,- says, that, in the case of Gibbons v. Ogden,. "it was deliberately examined and deemed inadmissible by the court." "Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, with
his accustomed accuracy aild fulness of illustration, reviewed,
at that time, the whole grounds of the controversy; and from
that time to the present, the.question has been considered, so
far as I know, at rest. The power given to Congress to regulate commerce with foreign natiofis and among 'th .States has
been deemed exclusive, from the nature ancd objects of the
power, and ihe necessary implications growing out of its exercise."

'396

SUPR)ME'COURT."
'Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice McLean's Opihioh'"

When the commercial -power was under discifssion in the
conventibn which formed the Constitution, Mi. Madison observed, that "he was more and more convinced that the regulation of commerce was in its nature* indivisible, and ought to
be wholly under one authority." Mr. Sherman said, - "The
power of the United States to regulate trade, being supreme,
can control interferences of the State regulations when suchinterferences happen; so that there is no, danger to be apprehended from a concurrent jurisdiction." Mr. Langdon "in-'
sisted that the regulatioi. of -tonnage was an -essential part of
the regulation of trade, and that the States ought to have nothing to do with it." And the motion was carried:, "thai no
State shall lay any duty on tonnage without the consent of
Congress." (3 Madison Papers, 1585, 1586.)
The adoption of the above provision in the Constitution, and
also the one in the samesection, - "that no State shall, without
the assent of the Congress, lay any imposts or daties on imports
or" exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its -inspection laws; and the net produce of all duties
and imposts shall be for the use of the treasury of. the United
States; and all such laws shall be subject to the revision and
control of the Congress,'? - is a restriction, it is contended, upon
the acknowledged power of the States.'
The force of-this argument was admitted by the court in the
case of Gibbons v. Ogden, and. it was answered"by the allegation'f that tlip Yestriction operated on the taxing power of the
States. The same argument was used in tho thirty-second
number of the Federalist. I yield more to the authority of this
position than to the stringency of the argument in support of
it. To prohibit the exercise of a power by'a State, as a general rule, admits the'existence of such.power. But this may
not be universally true. Had there been no inhibition on the
States as to "coining money and fixing the value thereof," or
as to tonnage duties, it could not have been successfully contended that the States might exercise. those powers. All duties
are required to be uniform, and this could not be the -result of
State action, And the power to coin money and regulate its
value, for the Union, is equally beyond the power of a State.
Doubts may exist as ,to the true construction of an instrument in the, minds of its framers, and to obviate those doubts,
additional, if not unnecessary, provisions may be. inserted.
This remark applies to the- Constitution in the instances
named, and in others.
A concurrent power in the'States to reguilate'commerce is an
inomaly not found in the Constitution. If such power exist, it
may be exercised independently of the federal authority.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

397

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice McLean's Opinion.

It does not followv, as is often said, with little accuracy, that,
when a State law shall conflict with an act of Congress, the
former must yield. On the contrary, except in certain cases
named in the Federal Constitu*tion, this is never correct when
the act of the State is strictly within its powers.
I am aware this court have held that a State may pass a
bankrupt law, which is annulled when Congress shall act on the
same subject. In Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122, the
court say, -" Wherever the terms in which a power is granted
by the Constitution to C6ngress, or wherever the nature of the
power-itself. requires that it shall be exclusively exercised by
Congress, the sibj~ct is as completely taken away from State
legislatures as if they had been forbidden to act upon it:"
But they say, -"
The power granted to Congress of establishing uniform laws- on the subject of bankruptcy is not of this
description."
The case of Wilson v. The .Blackbird Creek Marsh Company, 2 Pet. 250, it is contended, recognizes the right of a
State to.exercise a commercial power, where no conflict is produced with an act of Congress.
It must be admitted that the 1anguagp of the eminent chief
justice who wrote the opinion is less guarded than his opinions
generally were on constitutional questions.
A company was incorporated and authorized to construct a
dam over Biackbird Creek, in the State of Delaware, below
where the tide ebbed and flowed, in order to drain the"marsh,.
and by that eans improve the health of the neighbourh6od.
The plaintiffs, being desirous of ascending the creek, with their
vessel, above the dam, removed a part of it as an obstruction,
for which the company recov'ered damages. The chief justicein speaking. of the structure of the dam, the drainage of the
marsh, and the improvement of the health of the neighbourhood, says: -" , Means calculated to produce these objects, provided they do not come into collision with the ppwers of the
general government, are undoubtedly *ithin those which are
reserved to the States. But the measure authorized by this
act stops a'navigable creek, and must be'.suppqsed to abridgethe rights of those who have been accustomed to use it. But
this abridgmen't, unless it comes in conflict with the Constitution' or a law of the United States, is an affair between the.
government of, Delaware and its citizens, 6f which ihis court
can take no cognizance." And he observes; - ' If Congress
had passed any act which bore fipon the case, any att in execution of the power to regulate commerce, the abject of which
was to control State legislation over those small navigabler
creeks into which the tide flows," &c., '1 we should feel not
VOL. Vim.
34

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice McLean's- Opinion;

much difficulty in saying that a Siate law coming in conflict
with such act'would be void. But Congress had passed no
such act. The repugnancy. of the law of Delaware to the Constitution is placed entirely on its repugnancy to the power to
regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several'
States, -a power which has not been so exercised as to affect
the question."
The language of the chief justice must be construed in reference to the question before the court; to suppose that he intended to lay down the general propositi6n', that a State might
pass any act to obstruct or regulate commerce which did not
come in conflict with an act. of Congress, would not only be
unauthorized by the language used,'and the facts of the case
before the court, but: it would contradict- th6 language of the
court in Gibbons v. Ogden, Brown v. Maryland, and every case
inwhich the commercial power has I een considered.
The chief justice was speaking of-a creek'which falls into
the Delaware, and admitted in the pleadings to be navigable,
but of so limited an extent that it might Vell be doubted
whether the general regulation of commerce could apply to it.
Hurfdreds of creeks within the flow of the tide were similarlj
situated. In such cases, involving doubt whether the .jurisdiction may not be exclusively exercised by the State, it i§ politic
and prover in the judicial power to follow the action of Congress.
Over the navigable waters of a State, Congress can exerc"i~e-.no
commercial power, except as regards an intercourse with, other
States of the Union or foreign countries. And doubtless there
are many crebks made navigable by the flowing of the tide,
or by the backwater from large rivers, which the general
phraseology of an act to regulate commerce may not embrace.,
In all such cases, and many others that may be found to exist,
the court could not safely exercise -a jurisdiction not expressly
sanctioned by-Congress.
When the language of the court is applied to the facts of the
,above case, no such general principle as contended for is sanetioned. The construftion of the dam was complained of,not
as a regulation of commerce, but an obstruction-of it; and the
court held, that, " as Congress had not assumed to control State
legislation over those small navigable creeks into which the
tide flows, the judicial power could not do*so.. The act- of the
State was an internal and a police power, to guard the health
of- its citizens. By the erecti6n of the dam, commerce could
only be affected as charged consequentially and contingently.
The State neither assumed nor exercised a commercial power:
i -this whole case, nothing more is found than a forbearance
to exercise power over a doubtful object, which should ever
characterize the judicial branch of the government.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

399

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Jestice McLeans Opinion.

A concurrent power excludes the idea of a dependent power.
The general government and a State exercise concurrent
powers in' taxing the people of the State. The objects of
taxation may be the same, but the motivds and policy o the
tax are different, and the powers are distinct and ihdependent.
A concurrent power in two distinct sovereignties to regulate
the same thing is as inconsistent in principle as it is impracticable in action. It irvolves a moral and physical impossibility.
A joint action is not supposed, and two independent ivills cannot do the same thing. The action of one, unless there be
an arrangement, must necessarily precede the action of the
other; and that which is first, being competent, must establish
the rule. If the powers be equal; as must be the case, both
being. sovereign, one may-undo'what .the other does, and this
must be the result of. their action.
But th6 argument is, that a State acting in a subordinate capacity, wholly inconsistent with its sovereignty, may regulate
foreign commerce until Congress shall act on the same subject;.
and that the State must then yield to the paramount authority.
A jealousy of the federal powers has often been expressed, and
an apprehension entertained that they would impair the sovereignty of the States: But this argument degrades the States
by making their legislation, to the extent. stated, sabject to the
will of Congress. State powers do not rest upon this basis.
Congress can in no respect restrict or enlarge State powers,
though they may adopt a State law. State powers are at all
times and under all circumstances exercised independently of
the general government, and are never declared void or inoperative except when they transcend State jurisdiction. And
on the same principle, the Federal authority is void when exercised leyond its constitutional limits.
The organization of the nilitia by a State-, and also a State
bankrupt law, may be shperseded by the action of Congress.
But this is not within the above principle. The action of the
State is local, and may be necessary on both subjects, 4nd that
of Congress is general. In lieither case is the same power exercised. No one doubts the power of a State to regulate its
internal commerce.
It has been well remarked, that the regulation of commerce
consists as much in negative as in positive action. There is
not a Federal power which has been exerted in all its diversified means of operation. And yet it may have been exercised by Congress, influenced by a judicious policy and the instruction of the people. Is a commercial regulation open toState action because the Federal power has not been exhausted? No ingenuity can provide for every contingency; and if-it

400

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases. -Mr. Justice McLean'. Opinion.

could, it might' not be wise to do so. Shall free goods be
taxed by a State because Congress have not taxed them? Or
shall a State increase the duty, on the ground that it is too
low ? Shall passengers, admitted by act of Congress without
a tax, be taxed by a State? The supposition of such a power
in a State is utterly inconsistent with a commercial power,
either paramount or exclusive, in Congress.
That it is.inconsistent with the exclusive power will, be admitted; but the' exerci.se of a subordinate commercial power
by a 'State is contended for. When this power is exercised,
how can it be known'that the identical thing has not been
duly considered by Congress? ' And how can Congress, by any
legislation, prevent this interference? A practical enforcement
of this system, if system it may be cdlled, would overthrow
the Federal commercial' power.
Whether I consider the nature and object of the commercial
power, the class of powers with which it is placed, the decision
of this court in the case of Gibbon§ v. Ogden, reiterated in
Brown v. The State of Maryland, and often reasserted by Mr.
Justice.Story who participated in those decisions, I am brought
to the conclusion, that the power "1to regulate commerce with
foreign nations, and among the several States," by the Constitution, is exclusively vested in Congress.
I come now to inquire, under the second general proposition,
Is the statute of New York a regulation of foreign commerce?
All commercial action within the limits of a State; and which
does not extend to any other State or foreign country, is exclusively under State regulation. Congress have no more power
to control this than a State has to regulate. commerce "with
foreign nations and among the several States." And yet Congress may tax the property within a State, of every description,
owned by its citizens, on the basis provided in the Constitution,
the same as a State may tax it. But if Congress should impose a tonnage duty on vessels which ply between ports within
the same State, or require such vessels t6 take out a license, or
impose a tax on persons transported in them, the act would be
unconstitutional .and void. But foreign commerce and com
merce among' the several States, the regulation of which, with
certain constitutional exceptions, is exclusively vested in Congress, .no State can regulate.
In giving the -commercial power to Congress the States did
not part with that power of self-pieservation which must be
inherent in every organized community.- They may guard
against the introducti6n of any thing which. may corrupt the
morals, or endanger the health or lives of theircitizens. Quarantine or health laws have been passed by the States, and regulations of police for their .protection and welfare.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

401

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice M cLeans Opinion.

The inspection laws of a State apply chiefly to exports, and
the State may lay duties and. imposts on imports or exports to
pay the expense of executing those laws. But a State is limited to what shall be "absolutely necessary"' for that- purpose.
And still further to guard against the abuse of this power, it is
declared that "1the net produce of all duties and imposts laid
by a State on imports or exports- shall -be for the. use of the
Treasury of the United States; and all such laws shall be subject to the revisi9n and control of Congress."
The cautious manner in which the exercise of this commercial power by a State is guarded shows an -extreme jealousy
of. it by the convention; and no doubt the hostile regulations
of commerce by the States, under- the Confederation, had induced this jealousy. No one can read this provision, and the
one which follows it in relation' to tonnage duties, without
being convinced that they cover, and were intended to cQver,
the entire subject of foreign commerce. A criticism on the
term' import, by which to limit the obvious meaning of this
paragraph, is scarcely admissible in construing so grave, an instrument.
Commerce is defindd to be "an exchange of commodities."
But this definition does not convey the full meaning of the
term. It includes "-navigation aid intercourse." .That the
transportation of passengers is a part of ,ommerce is not now
an open question. In Gibbons v. Ogden, this court say, -" 1 No
clear distinction is perceived between the powers to regulate
vessels in transporting men for hire and prpperty for hire."
The provision of the Constitution, that "1the migration or importation of such persons as any of the -States now existing
shall think proper to admit shall not be prohibited by Congress
prior to- the year 1808," is a restriction on the general power of
Congress to regulate .commerce. "In reference to this clause,
this court. say, in the above case, -" This section proves that
the power to regulate commerce applies. equally to the regulation of vessels employed in transporting men who pags from
place to place voluntarily, and to those who pass involuntarily."
To encourage foreign emigration was a cherished policy of
this country at the time the Constitution was adopted. As a
branch of commerce the transportation of passengers has always
given a profitable employment to our -ships, and within a few
years past has required an amount of tonnage nearly equal to
that of imported merchandise.
Is this great branch of our commerce left open to State regulation on the ground that the prohibition refers to an import,;
and a man is not-an import'?
Pilot laws, enacted by the different States, -have been refer.34*

402

SUPRZM'E COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice McLean's Opinion.

red to as commercial regulations. That these laws do regulate
commerce, to a certain extent, is adniitted ; but from -what authority do they derive their force ? Certainly not from the
States. By the fourth section of the act of the 7th of August,
Thai all pilots in the bays, inlets,
1789, -itis provided,rivers, harbours; and ports of the United States shall continue
to be regulated in conformity wifh the existing laws of the
States, respectively, whereini such pilots may be, or with such
laws as the States may.respectively hereafter enact for the purpose,until further legislative provision shall be made by Congress." These State laws, by adoption, are the laws of Congress, and as such effect is given to them. ' So the laws of the
States which: regulate the practice of their courts are adopted
by Congress to regulate. the practice of the Federal 'courts.
But these laws, so far s they- are adopted, are as -much the
laws of the United States, and it has often been so held. as if
they had been specially enacted by Congress. A repeal -of
them by the State, unless future chariges in the acts be also
adopted, does not affect their force in regard to Federal action.
.In the above instanbes, it has been deemed proper for Congress to legislate by adopting the law of the States. And it is
not doubted that this has been found convenient to the puruic
service, Pilot laws were in force in every commercial State
on the seaboard wheii the Constituition was adopted; and on
the introduction of~a new system, it was prudent to preserve,
.asfar as practicable., the modes of proceeding with which the
. people of the different States were familiar. In regard to,pilots,
it was not essential that the laws should be uniform, - their
duties could be best regulated by an authority acquainted with
the local cirdumstanc6s under which they were performed; and
the fact that the -same system is continued shows that the
public interest has required no change.
No one has yet drawn the line clearly, because, perhaps, no
one can draw it, between the commercial power of the 'Union
and the municipal power of a State. Numerous cases have
arisen, involving these powers, which have been decided, but a
rule.has necessarily been observed as applicable to the circumstances of eadh case.- And so must every case be adjudged.
A State cannot regulate foreign commerce, but it may do
many -things which more or less affect it. -Itmay tax a ship or
other vessel used in. commerce the same as other property
owned by its citizens. A State may tax the stages in which
the mail is transported, bftt this does not regulate the conveyance of the mail any more than taxing a ship regulates commerce. And yet, in both instances, the tax on the property in
some degree affects its use.
"

'JANUARY TERM, 1849.

403

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice MeLen's Opinion.

An inquiry is made whether Congress, under "the power - to
regulate commerce among the several States," can impose a tax
for the use of canals, railroads, turnpike roads, and bridges, constructed by a*State .or its citizens? I inswer, that Congress
has no such power. The United States cannot use. any one
of these works without paying the curtomary tolls. The tolls
are imposed, not as a tax, in the ordinary sense of that -term,
but s compensation for the increased facility afforded by the.
improvement.
The act of New York now under consideration is called a
health law. It. imposes a tax on-the master and every cabin
passenger of a vessel from a foreign-port, of one dollar and fifty
cents; and of one dollar on the. mate, each steerage passenger;
silor, or mariner. And the master is made responsible for the
tax, he having a right to exact it of the others: The funds s.
collected are denomjinated hospital moneys, and are applied to
the use of the marine hospital; the surplus to be paid to the
treasurer of the Society for the Reformation of Juvenile Delinquents in the city, of New. York, for. the use of that society.
To call this a hlealth law would seem to.be a misapplication
of the term. It is difficult to perceive how a health law canbe extended to the reformation 'of juvenile offenders. On the
same principle, it may be made to em'brace all offenders, so as
to pay the expenses incident to an administration of the, criminal law. And with the same propriety it may include the expenditures of any branch of the civil administration of the city
of. New York, or of the State. In faet, I .can"see no principle
on which the fund can be limited; if it may be used as authorized by the act. The amount of the tax is as much.within
the discretion of the legislature of New York as the objects to
which it may be applied.
It is insisted that if the act, as regards the lospital fund; 1e
within the power of the State, the application of a part of the
fund to other objects, as provided in the 'act, cannot make it
iuconstitiitional. This. argument 'is unsustainable. If the
State has power to impose a tax to defray the necessary expenses of a health regulation, and .this power ,being exerted,
can the tax be increased so as to. defray, the expenses of the
estate government? This, is within the principle asserted.
The case of The City of New York v. Miln, 11 - Peters, 102,
-is relied on with great confidence as sustaining the act in question. As I assented to the points,ruled in that cae, consistenoy, unless convinced of having erred, will compel me to, support
-the law now before usif it be the same in principle.- The law
ia Milu'a ease required'that "the master or commander of any
ship or other v.essel arriving&at the- port of Neaw Yok shat

404

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger. Case.-Mr. Justice McLean's Opinion.

within "twenty-four hours after his arrival, 'make.'a report, in
writing, on oath or affirihation, to the mayor of the city of New
York, of the name, place of birth and last legal settlement, age,
and occupation of every person'brought as a passenger; and of
all persons permitted to land at any pla'e during the voyage, or
go on board of some other vessel, with the intention of proceeding to said city; under the penalty on such master or commander, and.the owner or owners, consignee or consignees, of such
ship or vessel, severally and respectively, of seventy-five dollars
for each individual not so reported.". And the suit was brought
against Miln as consignee of the ship Emily, for the failure of the
master to make report of the passengers on board of his vessel.
In their.opinion this court say, -"
The law operated on the
territory of New York, over which that State possesses an ac-.
kiowledged and undisputed jurisdiction for every purpose of
internal regulation"; and "on persons*whose, rights and duties are rightfully prescribed and controlled by the laws of the
respective States, within whose territorial limits they are
found." 'This law was considered as an internal police regulation, and as not interfering with commerce.
A duty was not laid upon the vessel or the' passengers, but
the report only was' required from the .master, as above stated.
Now, every StateL has an iinquestionable right to require a
register of the names of the persons who come within it to reside temporarily or permanently. This. was a precautionary
measure to ascertain the rights of the individuals, and the obligations of the public, under any contingency which might occur. It opposed no obstruction' to commerce, imposed no tax
nor delay, but acted upon the master, owner, or consignee of
the vessel, after the termination of the voyage, and when he
was within the territory of the State, mingling'with its citizens, and subject to its laws.
I But the health law, as it is called, under consideration,-is altogether different in its objects and means. It imposes a tax or
duty on the passengers, officers, and sailors, holding the master
responsible for the amount at the immediate termination of the
voyage, and necessarily before the passengers have set their feet
on land. The tax on each passenger, in the discretion of the
legislature, might have been: five or ten dollars, or any other
sum, amounting even to a prohibition of the transportation of
passengers; and the professed object of the tax is as welt for
the benefit of juvenile offenders, as for the marine hospital.
And it is not denied that a considerable sum 'thus received has
beenapplied to the 'former object. Th6 amount and application of this tax are only important to show the consequefices
of the exercise of this power by the States. The principle involved is vital to the commercial nower of the -Union.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

405

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice McLean's Opinion.

The transportation of passengers is regulated by Congress.
More than two passengers for every five tons of the ship or vessel are prohibited, under certain penalties; and the master is rdquired to report to the collector a list of the passengers from a
foreign port, stating the age, sek, and occupation of each, and
the place of their destination. In England, the same subject
is regulated by act of Parliament, and the same thing is done,
it is believed, in all commercial countries. If the transportation of passeng-rs be a branch of commerce, of which there can
be no doubt, it follows that the act of New York, in imposing
this tax,'is a regulation of commerce. It is a tax upon.a commercial operation, - upon what may, in effect, be called an
import. In a commercial sense, no just distinction can be
made, as regards the law in quostion, between the transportation
of merchandise and ;passengers. For the transportation of both
the ship-owner realizes a profit, and each is the subject. of a
commercial regulation by Congress. When the merdhandise
is taken from the ship, and becomes mingled Vrith the property
of the people of the State, like other property, it is subject to
the local law; but until this shall take place, the merchandise
is an import, and is not subject to the taxing power of the
State, and the same rule applies to passengers. When they
leave the ship, and mingle with the citizens of the State, they
become subject to its laws.
In Gibbons -v. Ogden, the court held that the act of laying
"duties or imposts on imports or exports" is'derived from the
taxing power; and they lay much stress on the fact, that this
power is given in the same sentence as the power to "lay and
collect taxes." "The power," they say, "to-regulate commerce
is given 1 in a separate clause, "as being entirely distinct from
the right to levy taxes and imposts, and as being a new power,
not before conferred "; and they remark, that, had not the
States been prohibited, they mig1 't, under the power to tax,
have levied "duties on imports or e.ports." (9 Wheat. 201.)
The Constitution requires that all "duties and imposts shall
be uniform," and declares that "no preference shall be given
by any regulation of commerce or revenue to the ports of one
State over those of another." Now, it is inexplicable to me
how thirteen or more independent States could tax imports
under these provisions of the Constitution. -The tax must be
uniform throughout the Union; consequently the exercise of the
power by any one State would be unconstitutional, as it would
destroy the uniformity of the tax. To secure this uniformity
was one of the motived which led to the adoption Gf the Constitution. The want of it produced collisions in the commercial' rggulations of the States. But if, as is contended, these

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger, Caoes.-Mr. Justice McLean's Opinion.

provisions of -the Constitution operate only on th Federal
goernment, and the States are ffee to regulate commerce by
taxing its operations in all cases-where they are not expressly
prohibited, the Constitution has failed to accomplish the great
object of those who adopted it.
These provisions impose restrictions on the exercise of the,
commercial power, which was exclusively vested in Congress;
and it is as binding on the States as any other exclusive pdwer
with which it is classed -inth "Constituti6n.
"Itis immaterial under what power duties on imports are im-posed. Tha. they:are 'the principal means .by'which commerce
is regulated no one can. quiestion. Whether duties shall be
imposed with the view to protect our manufactures, or. fr
purposes -ofrevenue-only, has always been a leading suhjeet of
discussion in Congress; and also what foreign articles may.be
admitted free of duty. The force of the argument, that thiftgs
untouched'by the'reguldting power have been equally considered with those of the same class on which, -ifhas opesated, is
not admitted by the counsel for the defendant. But does not.
all experience sustain, the argument-? A large amunit of foreign articles brought:into this country for several years, have
been admitted free 'of duty. Have not these articles been considered by Congress? The discussion in both houses of Congress, the report by the committees of both, and the laws that
have been enacted, showv that they have been duly'considered.
Except to guard its citizens against diseases and paupers, the
municipal power of a State cannot prohibit the introduction" offoreigners brought to this country'under the authority of Congress. It may deny to them a residence, unless they shall give
security to indemnify 'the public should .they become paupers.
The Slave States have the power, as this court held in Groves
v. Slaughter, to prohibit slaves from being brought into them
as merchandise, But this was on the ground, that such a prohibition did not come within the power of Congress "I to regulate commerce among the geveral'States." It is suggested, that,
under this -view of the commercial power, slaves may be introduced into the Free States. Does any one suppose that Congress can ever revive the- slave- trade ? And .if this were possible, slaves thus introduced Would be free.
As early as May 27th, 1796, Congress enacted, that "the
President, be authorized to direct the revenue-officers commanding forts and revenue-cutters to aid in the execution of quarantine, and also in the execution of the health laws -of the, States
respectively." And by the act of February 25th, 1799, which
repealed the above act, more -enlarged provisions were enactedi"
requiring the. revenue-officers of the United States to conform'

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

407

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice McLean's Opinion.

tor and aid in the execution of the quarantine and health laws
of the States. In the first section of this law there is a proviso,
that "nothing therein shall enable any State to collect a duty
of tonnage or impost without the consent of Congress."
A proviso limits the provisions of the act into which it is introduced. But this proviso may be considered as hot restricted
to this purpose. It shows with what caution Congress guarded
the commercial power, and it is an authoritative provision
against its exercise by the States. An impost, in its enlarged
sense, means any tax or tribute imposed by authority, and applies as well to a .tax on persons as to a tax on merchandise.
In this sense it was no doubt used in the above act. Any
other construction would be an imputation on the intelligence
of Congress.
If this power to tax passengers from a foreign country belongs to a State, a tax, on the same principle, may be imposed
bn all persons coming into or passing through. it from any
other State of the Union. And the New York statute does in
fact lay a, tax on passengers on board of any coasting-vessel
which arrives at the port of New York, with an exception of
passengers in vessels from New Jersey, Connecticut, and Rhode
Island, who are required to pay for one .tfip in each month.
All other passengers pay the tax every trip.
If this may be done in New York, every other State may do
the same, on all the lines of our internal navigation. Passengers on a steamboat which plies on the Ohio, the Mississippi,
or on any of our other, rivers, ,or on the Lakes, may be required
to pay a tax, imposed at the discretion of each State within
which the boat shall touch.. And the same principle will sustain a right in every State to tax all persons who shall pass
through its' territory on railroad-cars, canal-boats, stages, or in
any other manner. This would enable a State to establish and
enforce a non-intercourse with every other State.
The ninth section of the first article of the Constitution
declares, - "Nor shall vessels bound to or from one State be
obliged to enter, clear, or pay duties, in another." But if the
commercial. pnwer of the Union over foreign commerce does
not exempt passengers. brought into -the country from State
taxation, they cafr claim no exemption under the exercise of thp
same power among the States. In McOullQch v. The State
of Maryland, 4 Wheat. 431, this court say, -" That there is
a plain repugnance in conferring on one government a power
to control the constitutional measures of another, which. other,
with respect to those very measures, is declared to be supreme
over that which exerts the control, is a proposition not to be
denied."

408

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice McLean's Opinion.

The officerB and crew of the vessel are as much the instruments of commerce as the ship, and yet they are taxed under
this health law of New York as such instruments. The pa
sengers are taxed as passengers, being the subjectsof commerce
from a foreign country. By the fourteenth article of the treaty
of 1794, with England, it is stipulated that the people of each
c3untry may freely come, with their ships and cargoes;, to the
other, subject only to the laws and statutes of the two countries respectively. The statutes here referred to are those of
the Federal government, and not of the States.' The, general
government only is known in our foreign intercourse..
By the forty-sixth section of the act of March, 1799, the
wearing apparel and other personal baggage, and the tools or
implements of a mechanical trade, from a foreign port, are admitted free of duty. These provisions of the treaty and of the
act are still irforce, and they have a strong bearing on this subjct. They are, in effect, repugnant to the act of New York.
It is rlot doubted that a large portion, perhaps nine, tenths,
of the foreign passengers landed at the port of New York pass
through the State to other places of residence. -Atsuch places,
therefore, pauperism must be increased much more bythe influx of foreigners than in the city of. New York. " If, by-reason of commerce, a burden is thrown upon our commercial
cities, Congress should make suitable provisions for their relief.
And I have no doubt this will be done.
The police poywer of the State- cannot draw within its juris-diction objects which lie beyond it. It meets the commercial
power of the Union in Olealing with subjects under the protection of that power, yet it can only be exerted under peculiar
emergencies and to a limited extent. . In guarding the safety,
the health, and morals of its citizens, a State is restricted 'to
appropriate and constitutional means. If extraordinary expense
be incurred, an equitable claim to an indemnity can give no
power to a State to tax objects not subject to its jurisdiction.
The Attorney-General of New York admitted, that 'if the
commercial power wre exclusively vested in Congress, no part
of it can be exercised by. a State. The soundness of this conclusion is not only sustainable by the decisions of this court,
but by every approved rule of construction. That the power
isexclusive seems to be as fully established as any other power
under the Constitution which has been controverted.
A tax or duty upon tonnage, merchandise, or passengers is
a regulation of commerce, and cannot be laid by a State, except
under the sanction of-Congress and for the- purposes specified
in the Constitution. On the subject of foreign, commerce, in.cluding the transportation of passengers, Congress have adopod

JANUARY TBRM, 1849.

409

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice McLean's Opinion.-

such regulations as they deemed proper, taking into view our
relations with other countries. An4 this covers th% whole
ground. The -act of New York which imposes a tax on passengers of a ship from a foreign port, in the manner provided,
is a regulation of foreign commerce, which is exclusively vested
in Congress; and the act is therefore void.
NoRms v. CrTy o0 BOSTON.

This is a writ of error, which brings before the court the
judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Massachusetts.
"An act relating to alien passengers," passed the 20th of
April, 1837, by the legislatare of Massachusetts, contains the
following provisions "'§ 1. When any vessel shall arrive at any port or harbour
within this State,.from any port or. place without the same,
with alien passengers on board, the officer or officers whom
the mayor and aldermen of the city, or the selectmen of the
town, where it is proposed to land such passengers, are hereby
authorized and required to appoint, shall go on board such vessels and examine into the condition of saidpassengers.
"§ 2. If, on such examination, there shall be found among
said passengers any lunatic, idiot, maimed, aged, or infirm person, incompetent, in the opinion of the officer so examining, to
maintain themselves, or who have been paupers in any other
country, no such alien passenger shall be permitted to land,
until the master, owner, 'consignee, or agent of such vessel
shall have given to such city or town a bond in the sum of
one thousand dollars, with good and sufficient security, that
no such lunatic or indigent passenger shall become a city, town,
or State charge within ten years from the date of said bond.
" 3. No alien passenger, other than those spoken of in the
preceding section, shall be permitted to land, until the master,
owner, consignee, or agent of such vessel shall pay to the
regularly appointed boarding officer the sum of two dollars foreach passenger so landing; and the money so collected. shall
be paid into the treasury of the city or town, to be appropriated
as the city or town may direct for the support of foreign paupers."
The plaintiff being an inhabitant of St. John's, in the Province of New Brunswick and kingdom of Great Britain, arriv-:'
ing in the port of Boston, from that place, in command of a
schooner called the Union Jack, which had on board nineteen
alien passengers, for each of which two dollars were demanded
of the plaintiff, and paid by him, on protest that the exaction
was illegal. An action being brought, t6 recover back this:
VOL.

vii.

35

"410

-

SUPREME -COURT.,

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice. Wayne's Opinion.

money, against the city of Boston, in- the Court of Common
Pleas, under the instructions of the court, the jury found a verdict for the defendant, on whi6h judgment was entered; and
which was affirmed on a.writ of error to the- Supreme Court.
Under the- first and second sections of the above -act, the
persons appointed may go. on board of a shipfrom a foreign
port, which.arrives at the port of Boston with alien passengers on board, and examine whether any of thtem are lunatics, idiots, maimed, aged; or infirm, incompetent to maintain
themselves, or have -been paupers in any other country, and
not permit' such, persons to be put on shore, unless security
shall be given that they shall not become a city, town, or State
charge. This is the exercise of an unquestionable power in
the State to protect itself from foreign paupers and other persons who would be a public charge; but the nineteen alien
passengers.for whom the tax was paid did not come, nor any
one of them, within the second section. The tax of two dollars was l~aid by the master for each of these passengers before
they were permitted to land. This, according to the view
taken in the above case of Smith v. Turner,' was a regulation
of commetee, and not .being within the pow-er of the State, the
act imposing the tax is void.
The fund thus raised was no doubt faithfully applied for the
support of foreign paupers, but the question is one of power,
and not of policy. The judgment of the Supreme Court, in
my opinion, should be'reversed, and this cause be remanded to
that court, with instructions to carry out the judgment of this
court
Mr. Justice WAYNE.
Nomus v. CITy oF BosTOX, mm Smrr, v.

TusRNERL

I agree with Ir. Justice McLean, Mr. Justice Catron, Mr.
Justice McKinley, and Mr. Justice 'Grier, that the laws of MasSachusetts and New York, so far- as thek. xe- iF question ii'
these cases, are unconstitutional and void. I would not say
so, if Ihad any, the least, doubt of it; for I think it obligatory
upon this court, when there is a doubt of the unconstitutionality of a laW, that its judgment should be in favor of its valid:ity. I have- formed my conclusions in these cases with this
admission constantly in mind.
Before stating, however, what. they are, it will be well for
me to say, that the four judges and myself who concurlin giving the judghent in- these cases dO not differ in the'grounds
upon which our judgmnent -has been formed, except in one
particular;-in no way at variance with our united -onclusion;

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

411

Passenger Chses.-Mr. Justice Wayne's Opinion.

and that is, that a majority of us do not think it necessary in
these cases to reaffirm, with our brother McLean, what this
court has long since decided, that the constitutional power to
regulate "commerce with foreign nations, and among the
several States, and with the Indian tribes," is exclusively
vested in Congress, and that no part of it can be exercised by'
a State.
I believe it to be so, just as it is expressed in the preceding
-sentence. And in the sense in which those words were used by.
this court in the case of Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 198. All
that was decided in that case remains unchanged by any subsequent opinion or judgnent of this court. Some of the judges
of it have, in several cases, expressed opinions that the power
to regulate commerce is not exclusively vested in Congress.
But they are individdal opinions, without judicial authority 'to
overrule the contrary conclusion, as it was given .by this -ourt
in Gibbons v. Ogden.
Still, I do not think it necessary to reaffirm that position in.
these cases, as apart of our judgments upon them. Its exclusiveness in Congress will, it is true, be an unavoidable inference from some of the arguments which I shall use upon the
power of Congress to regulate commerce; -Mut it will be seen
that the argument, as a whole, Wrill be a proper and apt foundation for the conclusion to which'five of us have come,- that the
laws of Massachusetts and New York, so far as they are resisted by the plaintiffs in the cases before us, are tax acts, in the
nature of -regulations acting upon the commerce of the United
States, such as no State can now constitutionally pass.
For the acts of Massachusetts and New York imposing taxes
upon passengers; and for the pleadings upon which these cases.
have been brought to this court, I refer to the opinion of Mr.
Justice. Catron. They are fully and accurately stated.' I take
pleasure in saying that I concur with him in all the points
made in his opinion, and in his. reasoning in support of them.
They are sustained by such minute references to the legislation
of Congress and to treaty stipulations, that nothing of either is
left to be added. As an argument, it closes this controversy
against any other view of the subject-matter, in opposition to
my learned brother's conclusions.
His leading positions are, that the acts of Massachusetts and
New York are tax or revenue acts upon the commerce of the
United States, as that commerce has been regulated by the
legislation of Cofigress and by treaty stipulations; that the
power to regulate commerce having been acted upon by Congress indicates how far the power is to be exercised for the
United States as a nation. with which there can be no inter;-

412

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Waynes Opinion.

ference by any State legislation; that a treaty permitting the
ingress of foreigners into the United .States, with or without
any other stipulation than a reciprocal right of ingress for our
people into the territories of the nation with which the treaty
may be made, prevents a State from imposing a poll-tax or personal impost upon fore igners, either, directly or indirectly, for
any purpose whatever, as a. condition for being landed in any
part of the United States, whether such foreigners shall come
to it for commercial purposes, or as immigrants, or for temporary visitation.
-Those of us who are united with Mr. Justice Catron in giving the judgments in these cases concur with him in those
opinions. Mr. Justice McKinley and Mr. Justice Grier have
just said so, my own concurrence has been already expressed,
and the second division of Mr. Justice McLean's'opinion contains conclusions identical with those of Mr. Justice Catron
concerning the unconstitutionality of the laws of Massachusetts
and New York, on account of the conflict between them with
the .legislation of Congress and with treaty stipulations. I also
concur with Mr. Justice McKinley in his interpretation of the
ninth section of the first article of the Constitution; also with
Mr. Justice GCer, in his opinion in the case of Norris v. The
City of Boston?
I have bean more particular in speaking of the, opinions of
Messrs. Justices McLean and Catron than, I would otherwise
have been, and of the points of agreement between them, and
of the concurrence of Messrs. Justices McKinley and Grier and.
myself in all in which both opinions agree, because a summary
maybe made from them of ivhat the -court means to decide in
the cases before us. In my view, after a very careful perusal of
those opinions, and of those also of Mr. Justice McKinley and
Mr. Justice Grier, I think the court means now to decide,
1. That tle acts of New York and Massachusetts imposing
a tax upon passengers, either foreigners or citizens, coming into
the ports in those Sttes, either in foreign vessels or vessels of
the UnitechStates, from foreign nations or froff ports in 'the
-United States, are unconstitutional and void, being-in their natur regulations of commerce contrary to the grant in the Constitution to Congress of the power to regulate commerce with
foreign nations and among the several States.
2. That the States of this Union cannot constitutionally
tax the commerce of the United States fdr the purpose of paying any expense incident to the execution of their police6 laws;
-Andhat the commerce of the United States includes an intercourse of persong;-as well as the importation of merchandise.
3." That the acts of Massachusetts and New York in question

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

413

Passenger Cases. -Mr. Justice Waynes Opinion.

in these cases conflict with treaty stipulations existing between
the United States and Great Britain, permitting the inhabitants of the two countries "freely and securely to come, with
their ships and cargoes, to all places, ports, and rivers in the
territories of each country to which other foreigners are permitted to come, to enter into the same, and to reniain and reside in any parts of said territories, respectively; also, to hire
and occupy houses and warehouses for the purposes of their*
commerce, and generally the merchants andtraders of each nation, rdspectively, shall enjoy the most complete protection and
security for their commerce, but subject, always, to. the laws
and statutes of the two countries, respectively"; and that said
laws are therefore unconstitutional and void.
4 That, the Congress of the United States having by sundry
acts passed at different times admitted foreigners into the United
States with their personal luggage and tools of trade free from
all duty or imposts, the acts of Massachusetts and New York
imposing any tax upon foreigners or immigrants for any purpose whatever, whilst the vessel is in t'ansitu to her port of
destination, though said vessel may have arrived within the
jurisdictional limits of either of the States of Massachusetts or
New York, and before the passengers have been landed, are in
violation of said acts of Congress, and therefore unconstitutional
and void.
5. That the acts of Massachusetts and New York, so far as
they impose any obligation upon the owners or consignees of
vessels, o upon the captains of vessels or freighters of the same,
arriving in the ports of the United States within the said
States, to pay any tax- or duty of any kind whatever, or to be'
in any way responsible for the same, for passengers arriving"
in the United States or coming from a port in the United
States, are unconstitutional and void; being contrary to the
constitutional grant to Congress of the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States, and
to the legislation of Congress under the said power, by which
.tlhe United States have been laid off into collection districts,
and ports of entry established within -the same, and commercial
regulations prescribed, under which vessels, their cargoes and
passengers, are to be admitted into the ports of the United
States, as well from' abroad as from other portsof the United
States. That the act of.New York now in question, so far as
it imposes a tax upon passengers arriving in vessels from other
ports in the United States, is properly in this case before .this.
court for construction, and that the s=id tax is nconstituttiofial
and void. That the. ninth section of the first article of the
Constitution includes within it the migration of other persons,-'

35*

414

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr., Justice Wayne's Opinion.

as well as the importation of slaves, and in terms recognizesthat other persons as well as slaves may be the subjects of importation and commerce.
6. That the fifth clause of the ninth section of the first article of the Constitution, whichdeclares that "no preference shall
be given by any regulation of commerce or revenue 'to the
ports of one State over those of another State; nor shall
vessels bound to or from one State be obliged to enter, clear,
or par duties in another," is a limitation upon the power of
.Congress to regulate commerce for the 'purpose of producing
entire commercial equality within the United States, and also
a.prohibition upon the States 'o de'troy such equality br any
legislation prescribing a condition upon which vessels bound
from on6 State shall enter the ports of another State.
. 7. That the acts of Massachusetts and New York, so far
as they impose a tax upon passengers, are unconstitutional
and void, because each of them so far conflicts with the first
clause of the eighth section of the- first article of the Constitution, which enjoin's that all duties, imposts, and excises shall
be uniform throughout the United States; because the constitutional uniformity enjoined in respect to duties and imposts is
as real and obligatory upon the States, in the absence of all
legislation by Congress, as if the uniformity had been made by
the legislation of Congress; and that such constitutional uniformity is interfered with and destroyed by any State imposing
any tax upon the intercourse of persons from State to State, or
from foreign countries to the United States.
" 8. That the power in Congress to regulate commerce with
foreign nations and among the-several States includes navigation upon the high seas, and in the bays, harbours, lakes, and
navigable waters within the United States, and that any tax by
a State in any way affecting the right of navigation, or subjecting the exercis& of the right to a condition, is contrary to
the aforesaid grant.
9. That the States of this Union may, in the exercise of their
police powers, pass quarantine and health laws, interdicting
Vessels coming from foreign ports, or ports within the United
States, from landing passengers 'and goods, prescribe the places.
and time for vessels to quarantine, and impose penalties upon
persons for violating the same; and that such laws, .though affecting commerce in its transit, are not regulations of commerce
prescribing terms upon which merchandise and persobs shall be
admitted into the ports of the United States, but precautionary
regulations to prevent vessels engaged in commerce from introducing disease into the ports to which they are bound, and that
the States may, in the exercise of such police power, without

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

415

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Wayne's Opinion.

any violationi of the power in Congress to regulate commerce,
exact from the owner or consignee of a quarantined vessel, and
from the passengers on board of her, such fees* as will pay to
the State the cost of their detention and of the purification of
the vessel, cargo, and apparel of the persons on board.
Having done what Iothought if was right to do to pievent
hereafter any misapprehension of what the court now means to
decide, I will give some reasons, in addition to those which
have been-urged by my associates, in support of our common
result. In the, first place, let it be understood, that, in whatever
I may say upon the power which Congress has "to regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States,
and with the Indian tribes," the internal trade of a State is not
meant to be included; that not being in any way within the
regulating power of Congress.
In the consideration, too, of the power in Congress to regulate commerce, I shall not rely, in the first instance, upon what
may be constitutionally doie in many commercial, particulars,
as well under the treaty-making power as by the legislation of
Congress. My. first object is to show the plenitude of the
power in Congress from the grant itself, without aid from any
other clause in the Constitution. The treaty-making power
for commercial purposes, however, and other clauses in the
Constitution relating to commerce, may afterwards be used to
enforce and illustrate the extent and character of the power
which Congress has to regulate commerce. It is a grant of
legislative power, susceptible, from its terms and the subjectmatter, of definite and indisputable interpretation.
Any mere comment upon the etymology of the words " regulate' and "commerce ' would be unsatisfactory in such a
discussion. But if their meaning, as they were used by the
framers of the Constitution, can be made precise by the subject-matter, then it cannot be doubted that it was intended by
them that Congress should have the legislative power to regulate commerce with foreign nations; and among the several
States, and with the Indian tribes, to the exclusion of any regulation for such commerce by any one of the States.
All commerce between nations is permissive or conventional.
The first includes every allowance of it, under what is termed
by writers upon international'law the liberty or -freedom of
'commerce, -its allowance by statutes, or by the orders of any
magistracy having the power to exercise the sovereignty of a
nation in respect to commerce. Conventional commerce is, of
course, that which nations carry on with each other under
treaty stipulations. With colonial commerce - another distinct kind, between nations and their colonies, which the laws.

416

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Wayne's Opinion.

of nations permit the former to monopolize--we have nothing
to do upon this occasion.
Now, what commerce was in fact, at least so far as European
nations were concerned, had been settled beyond all dispute
before our -separation from the mother country. It was well
known to the framers of the Constitution, in all its extent and
variety. Hard, denials of many of its privileges had taught
them what it was. They were familiar with the many valuable works upon trade and interriational law which were writreir and published, and which had been circulated in England
and in the Colonies from the early part of the last century up
to -the beginning of the Revolution. It is not too much to say,
that our controversies with the mother country upon the subject had given to the statesmen in America in that day more
accurate knowledge of all that* concerned trade in all its
branches and rights, and a more prompt use of it for any occasion, than is now known or could be: used by the statesmen
and jurists of our own time. Their knowledge, then, may
well be invoked to measureI the constitutional power of Congress to regulate commerce,
Commerce between nations or among states has several
branches. Martens, in his Summary of the Laws of Nations
says, -1 It consists in selling the superfluity; in purchasing
articles of necessity, as well productions as manufactures; in
buying from one nation and selling to another, or in transporting thb merchandise from the seller to the buyer to gain the
freight."
"Generally speaking, the commerce in Europe is so far free, that no nation, refuses positively and entirely to permit the subjects of another nation, when even there is no treaty between
them, to trade with its possessions in or out of Europe, or to
establish themselves in its territory for that purpose. A state
of war forms here a natural exception. However, as long as
there is no treaty existing, every state retains its natural right
to lay on such commerce whatever restriction it pleases. A
nation is then fully authorized to prohibit the entry or exportation of certain merchandise, to institute customs and to augment them at pleasure, to prescribe the manner in which the
commerce with its dominions shall be carried on, to point out
the places where it shall be carried on, or to exempt from it certain parts of its dominions, to exercise freely its sovereign power
over the foreigners living in its territories, to make whatever
distinctions between the nations with whom it trades it may
find conducive to its interests."
In all of the foregoing particulars Congress may act legislatively. It is conceded that the States may not do so in any

JANUARY TERM, 1849.
Passenger Cases. -M

4V7

r. Justice Waynes Opinion.

one of them; and if, in virtue of the power to lay taxes, the
United States and- the States may act in that way. concurrently
-upon foreigners when they reside in a State, it does not follow
that the States may impose a personal impost upon them, as
the condition of their being permitte to land in a port of the
United States. "Duties on the ent y of merchandise are to
be paid indiscriminately by foreigners as well as subjects.
Personal imposts it is customary not to exact from foreigners
till they have for some time been inhabitants of the state."
(Martens, p. 97.),
Keeping, then, in mind what commerce is, and how far a
nation may legally limit her own commercial transactions with
another state, we cannot be at a loss to determine, from 'the
subject-matter of the clause in the Constitution, that the meaning of the terms used in it is to exclude the States from regulating commerce in any way, except their own internal trade,
and to confide its legislative regulation completely and entirely
to Congress. When I say completely and entirely to Congress,
I mean all that can be included in the term "commerce among
the several States," subject, of course, to the right of the States
to pass inspection laws in the mode prescribed by the Constitution, to the prohibition of any duty upon exports, either from
one, State to another State or to foreign countries, and to that
commercial uniformity which the Constitution enjoins respecting all that relates to the introduction of merchandise into the
United States, and those who may bring it for sale, whether
they are citizens or foreigners, and all that concerns navigation, whether vessels are employed in the transportation of passengers or freight, or both, including, also, all the regulations
which the necessities and safety of navigation may' iequire.
"Inspection laws, quarantine laws, health laws of every description, as well as laws for regulating the internal commerce
of a State, and those which respect turnpike-roads, ferries, &c.,
are component parts of that immense mass of legislation which
embraces every thing within the territory of a State nof surrendered to the general government."
But the conclusion derived from the subject-matter of the
clause, as I have just stated it, is strengthened particularly by
what may be done in respect to commerce by treaty, and by
other clauses in the Constitution relating to commerce. Martens (p. 151) says, -" The mere general liberty of trade, such
as it is acknowledged at present in Europe, being too vague to
secure to a nation all the advantages it is necessary it should -derive from its commerce,- commercial powers have been obliged
to have recourse to treaties for their mutual benefit. The
number of these treaties is considerably augmented since the

418

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger -Cases. -Mr. Justice Waynes Opinion.

-

sixteenth century. However they may differ in their conditions, they .turn generally- on these three points: - 1.On commerce.in time of peace. . 2. On the measures to be pursued
with respect to commerce and commercial subjects in case of
rupture between the parties. 3. On the bommerce of tle contracting .party that may happen'to remain neuter, while the
other contracting party is at war with a third power. -With respect.to the first point the.custom is, -1.
To settle in general
the privileges that the contracting powers grant reciprocally to.
their subjects. 2. To enter .into the particulars of the rights
to be -enjoyed. by their subjects; as well with respect' to their
property as to their personal rights. Particular care is usually.
taken -to provide for the free enjoynent of their religion; -for
their right to the benefit of the laws of the country; for the
security of the books of cofmerce, &c. 3. To mention'specifically the kinds of merchandise which are to be admitted, to.
be imported or exported, and the advantages to be- granted relatively to customs, tonnage, &c.,
"With respect to the rights and immunities in case of a rupture between the parties, the great objects to be obtained are,
-1.
An exemption from seizure of the person or effects of
the subjects residing in the territory of the other contracting
power. 2. To fix the time which they shall- have to iremove -withtheir property out of the territory. 3. Or to point out the
conditions on which they may be permitted to remain in the
enemy's country during the war.
"In specifying the-rights of commerce to be enjoyed -by the
neutral power, it is particularly necessary,- 1. To. exempt its
vessels from embargo. -2.- To specify the merchandise which
is to be accounted contraband of war, and to. settle the penalties in case of contravention. 3. To agree on the mnanner
in which vessels shall be 'searched- at sea. 4. To stipulate
whether, neutral 'bototuxis are lto make neutral goods or not."
it seems to me', when such -egulations of commerce as may
be made by treaty are considered in connection with that
clause in the Constitution giving to Congress the power to
regulate it by legislation, and also in c6nnection with ;the restraints upon the States in thetenth section of the first article
of the Constitution, in respe6ct to treaties and commerce, that
the States have parted with all power over commerce, except
the regulation of their, internal trade. The restraints in that
section are, that no State shall enter into any treaty, alliafice,
or confederation; no State shall, without the G'"sent of Congress, lay any duties on imports or exports, exopt what may
be necessary for executing its inspection laws; nD 1tate shall,without the consent of Congress, lay any duty of -tonnage,

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

419

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Wayne's Opinion.

or enter into any agreement, or compact with ano'ther State
or with a foreign power.
The States, then, cannot regulate commerce by a treaty or
compact, and before it can be claimed that they may do so in
any way by legislation, it must be shown that the surrender
which they have made to a common government to regulate
commerce for the benefit of all of them. has been done in
terms which necessarily imply that the same power may be
used by them separately, or that the power' in Congress to
regulate commerce has been modified by some other clause
in the Constitution. No such modifying, clause exists. The
terms used do not, in their ordinary import, admit of any exception from the entireness of the power in Congress to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian tribes. The exercise of any such
power of regulation by the States, or any one or more of them,
would conflict with the constitutional authority of.the United
States to regulate commerce by legislation and by treaty, and
would measurably replace the States in- their commercial attitude to each other as they stood under the Articles of Confederation, and not as they meant to be when "we, the people of
the United States," in their separate sovereignties, as they existed" under the Articles of Confederation, superseded the latter by their ratification of "the Constitution for the United
States of America."
In what I have said concerning commercial regulations under
the treaty-making power, I do not mean to be understood as
saying that by treaty all regulation of commerce can be made,
independently of legislation by Congress. That question I do
not enter into-here, for in such' cases ,as are now before the
court I have no-right to do so. It has only been alluded to
by me to prevent any such inference from being made.
Apply the foregoing reasoning to the acts of Massachusetts
and New York, and whatever may be the motive for such
enactments or their legislative denomination, if they practically
operate as regulations of commerce, or as restraints upon navi-"
gation, they-are unconstitutional. When they are considered
in connection with the existing legislation of Congress in respect to trade and navigation, and with treaty stipulations, they
are certainly found.to be in conflict with the supreme law of
the land.
But those acts conflict also with other clauses in the Constitution relating to commerce and navigation; also, with that
clause which declares that duties, imposts, and excises shall be
uniform throughout the United States. Not in respect to excises, for those being taxes upon the consumption or retail sale

420

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Waynes Opinion.

of commodities, the States have a power to lay them, as well
as Congress. Not so, however, as to duties and impost;" °the
first, in its ordinary taxing sense, being.,taxes or customs upon
merchandise; and an impost being also, in its restrained sense,
a duty upon imported goods, but also, in its more enlarged
meaning, any tax or -imposition upon persons. Notwithstanding what may have otherwise been said, I was brought to the
conclusion, in my consideration of the taxing power of Congress before these cases were before us, that there was no substantial r6ason for supposing it was used by the framers of the
Constitution exclusively in. its more confined sense:But I return to those clauses with which I have said the
acts in question conflict. It will be conceded by all, that the
fifth clause of the ninth section of the first article of the Constitution, declaring that " no preference shall be given by any
regulation of commerce or revenue to the ports of one. State
over those of another," was intended to establish among, them
a perfect equality in commerce and navigation. That all
should be-alike, in respect to commerce and navigation, is an
enjoined constitutional equality, which can* neither be .interrupted by Congress nor by the States. When Congress enacts
regulations of commerce or revenue, it does so for the United
Siates, and the equality exists. "When a State passes-a law in
any way acting upon commerce, or one of revenue, it can only'
do so for 'itself, and the equality is destroyed. 'In. such a case
the Constitutihih would be violated, both in spirit and in letter.
Again, it is declared in' the first clause of the eighth section
of the first article of the Constitution, that all duties, imposts,
and excises shall be uniform throughout the United States;
that is, first, that when Congress lays duties, imposts, or excises,
they shall be Viniform; and secondly, that if, in the -exercise of
the taxing power, Congress shall not lay duties or imposts upon persons and particular things imported, the States shall not
destroy the uniformity, in the absence of regulation, by taxing
either. Things imported, it is admitted, the States cannot
tax, whether 'Congress has made them dutiable articles or free
goods; but persons, it is said, they can, because a State's right
to tax is only restrained in respect to imports and exports, apd,
as a person- is not an import, a tax or -duty may be laiddpor
him as the condition of his admission into the State.
. But this is not a correct or full view of the point. A State's
right to tax may only be limited to the extent mentioned; but
that does not -give the State the right to tax a foreigner or person for coming into one of the States of the United States.
That would be a tax or revenue act, in the nature of a regulation of commerce, acting upon navigation. It is not a disput

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

421

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Wayne's Opinion.

table point, that, under the power given to Congress to lay-and
collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, it may, in the exercise of its power to regulate commerce, tax persons as well as
things, as the conditiown of their admission into the United
States. To lay and collect taxes, duties, and imposts gives to
Congress a plenary power over all persons and things for taxation, except exports. Such is the received meaning of the
word taxes in its most extended sense, and always so when it
is not used in contradistinction to terms of taxation, having a
'limited meaning as to the objects to which, by usage, the terms
apply. It is in: the Constitution used in both senses. In its
extended sense, when it is said that Congress may lay and collect taxes; and in a more confined sense, in contradistinction
to duties, imposts, and excises.
The power, then, t9 tax, and the power to regulate commerce, give to Congress the right to tax persons who may
come into the United States, as a regulation of commerce and
navigation. I have already mentioned, among the restraints
which nations may impose upon the liberty or freedom of commerce, those which may be put upon foreigners coming into or
residing within their territories. This right exists to its fullest
extent, as a portion of the commercial rights of nations, when
not limited by treaties.
The power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and:
among the several States having been. given to Congress, Congress may, but the States cannot, tax persons for coming into
the United States.
It-is urged, however, in reply to what has just been said,
that, as the power to regulate commerce and the right to levy
taxes are distinct and substantive powers, the first cannot be'
used to limit the right of the States to tax, beyond the prohibition upon them not to tax exports or imports. The proposition is rightly stated, but what is gained in these cases from it?.
Nothing. The sums directed to be paid by or for passengers
are said to be taxes which the States have a right to impose, im
virtue of their police powers, either to prevent the evils of pauperism or to protect their inhabitants from apprehended disease.
But the question in these cases is, not whether the States may
or may not tax, but whether they can levy a tax upon passengers coming into the United, States under the authority and
sanction of the laws of Congress and treaty stipulations.
The right in a nation or state occurs -not in all cases, for
there are international exceptions - upon all persons and things
when they come or are brought within the territory of a state.
Not, however, because the person or thing is within the territory, but because they are under the sovereignty or politica
VOL. VII.

36

422

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Wayne's Opinion.

jurisdiction of the state. If not within the latter, the right to
tax does n~t arise until that event occurs. States may have
territorial jurisdiction for most of the purposes of sovereignty,
without political jurisdiction for some of them.
The distinction is not mine. It has been long since made
.by jurists and writers upon national law, because the history
of nations, from an early antiquity until now, shows such relations between them.- The framers of the Constitution acted
upon it throughput, in all the sovereign powers which they proposed that the States should yield to the United States. Martens properly says, that, to have a just idea of the states of
which Europe is composed, we must distinguish those which are
absolutely sovereign from those which are but demi-sovereign..
The states of the German empire, for instance, and the Italian
princes who acknowledge their submission to the empire,.- and
the German states, in their present Diet for great national purposes, with a vicar at its head, ovrertopping in might and majes*ty, but with regulated power, all before who have been emperors of Germany. I do -not mean to say that the States of this
Union are demi-sovereign to the general governmeht in the
sense in which some of the nations in Europe are to other' nations ; but that such-connection between those nations furnishes
the proof of the distinction between territorial sovereignty and
'political sovereignty.
The sovereignty of 'these States and
that of the United States, in all constitutional particulars, .have
a different origin. : But I do mean to say, that the distinction
between territorial and political jurisdiction arises, whether the
association be voluntary between states, or otherwise. Whenever one power has an exterritorial right over the territory or
sovereignty of another power, it is called by writers "a partial
right of sovereignty." Is not that exactly the case between
the United State4,'as a nation, and the States? Do not the
constitutional powers of the United-States act upon the ierritory, as well as upon the sovereignty, of the States, to the extent of what was their sovereignty before they yielded it, to the
United States? Can any one of the sovereign powers of the
United States be carried out by legislation, without acting upon
the territory, and sovereignty of the States? This being so,
Congress may say, and does say, whence a voyage may begin to
the United States, and where it may end in a State of the United
States. Though in its tran'sit-it enters the territory of a-State,
the political'jurisdiction of the State cannot interfere with it
by taxation in any way until the voyage has ended; not until
the persons 'ho may be brought as passengers have been landed, or the goods which may have been entered as merchandise
have .passed from the hands of the .importer, or have been

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Waynes Opinion..

made -by himself a portion of the mass of the general property
of the State. It is upon ihis distinction between territorial
and' political jurisdiction that the case of Brown v. Maryland
rests. Without it,.it has no other foundation, although it is not
so expressed in the opinion of the court.
In these cases the laws complained of meet the vessels when
they have arrived in the harbour, on the way to the port to
which they are bound, before the passengers have been landed.
And before they are landed they are met by superadded conditions in the shape of a tax, with which it is said they must
comply, or which the captain must pay for them, before they
are permitted to land. Certainly it is not within the political
jurisdiction of a State, in such circumstances of a voyage, to tax
&assengers.
But it is said, notwithstanding, that the tax may be laid in
virtue of police power in the States, never surrendered by them
to the United States. A proper understanding 9f the police
power of a nation will probably remove the- objection from the
mind of those who made it. What is the supreme police
power of a state? It is one of the different means used by
sovereignty to accomplish that great object, the good of the
state. It is either national or municipal,in the confined application of that word to corporations and cities. * It was used in
the argument invariably in its national sense. In that sense it
comprehends the restraint which nations may put upon the
liberty of entry and passage of persons into different countries,
for the purposes of visitation or commerce.
The first restraint that nations reserve to themselves is the
right to be informed of the name and quality of every foreigner
that arrives. That, and no more than that, was Miln's case.
(11 Peters.) Nations have a right to keep at a distance all s.nspected persons; to forbid the entry of foreigners or foreign merchandise of a certain description, as circumstances may require.
In a word, it extends to every person and every thing in the
territory ;and foreigners are subject to it, as well as subjects to
the state, except only ministers and other diplomatic functionaries; and they are bound to observe municipal police, though
not liable to its penalties.
c1 The care of hindering what night trouble the inftemal
tranquilliy and security of the state is the basis of the police,
and authorizes the sovereign to make laws and establish institutions for that purpose, and as every foreigner living in the
state ought to concur in promoting the object, even those who
enjoy the right exterritorially (such as sovereigns and ministers) cannot dispense with observing the laws of police, although in cage of transgression they cannot be punished like
native or temporary subjects of the state."

424

SUPREME

COURT.

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Wayne's Opinion.

Polic&powers, then, and sovereign powers are the same, the
former being considered so many'particular rights under that
name or word collectively placed in the hands of the sovereign. Certainly the States of this Union have not retained
them to the extent of the preceding enumeration. .low much
of it have the States retained? I answer, unhesitatingly. all
necessary to their internal government. Generally; all not
delegated by them'in the Articles of Confederation to the
United States of America; all not yielded by them under the
Constitution of the United States. Among them, qualified
rights to protect their inhabitants by quarantine from disease;
imperfect and qualified, because the commercial power which
Congress has is necessarily connected with quarantine. And
Congress may, by adoption, presently and for the future, provide for the observance of such State laws, making such alterations as the interests and conveniences of commerce and navigation may require, always keeping in mind that the great
object of quarantine shall be secured.
Such has been the interpretation of the rights of the States
to quarantine, and of that of Congress over it, from the beginning of the Federal government. -Under it the States and the
United States, both having measurably concurrent rights of
legislation in the matter, have reposed quietly and without any
harm to either, until the. acts now in question caused this controversy. The act of February 25th, 1799, (1 Stat. at Large,
619,) will show this.
By that act, collectors, revenue-officers, masters and crews of
revenue-cutters, and military officers in command of forts upon
the coast, are required to aid in the execution of the State's quarantine laws. But then, and it may be observed *particularlyin
reference to the acts of Massachusetts and New York now in
question, the law provides that nothing in the act "1shall enable
a State to collect a duty of tonnage or.impost without the consent of Congress "2; that no part of the cargo of any vessel
shall- in any case be taken out, otherwise than as by law is
allowed, or according to the regulations thereinafter established;
thus showing that the State's quarantine power over the cargo
for the purpose of purifying it or the vessel has been 'taken
away. By the second section of the same act, the power of
the States in respect to warehouses and other.buildings for the
purification of the cargo is also taken away, and exclusively
assumed by the United States. And by the third section, in
order that the States may be subjected to as little expense as
possible, and that the safety of the public revenue may not be
lessened, it is provided that the United States, under the orders
of the President of the United States, shall purchase or erect

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

425

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Way e's Opinion.
suitable warehouses, with wharves and inclosures for goods
and merchandise taken from 'vessels subject to quarantine, or
other restraint, pursuant to the health laws of any State.. And
in regard to the word imposts, in the first section of the act, I
may here remark, though I have heretofore given its meaning,
that it means in the act; as well as it does in the Constitution,
personal imposts upon a foreigner enjoying the protection of a
State, or it may be a condition of his admission (Martens, p.
97), as well as any tax or duty upon goods; and Martens, as
well as all other jurists and writers upon international law, uses
the word in the sense I have said it has, also, as '!.imposts on
real estates and duties on the entry and, consumption of merchandises."
(pp. 97, 98.)
But, further, by the police power in the States they have reserved the right to be informed of the name and quality of
every foreigner that arrives in the State. This, and no more
than this, was Miln's case, in 11 Peters. But after they have
been landed, as is said in'Miln's case. And it -as surprising
to me, in the argument of these cases, that that admission in
Miln's case was overlooked by those who spoke in favor of the
constitutionality of the laws of Massachusetts and New York;
for the right of New. York to a list of passengers, notwithstanding the passenger laws of the United States, is put upon'the
ground that those laws "affect passengers whilst on their voyage, and until they shall have landed." And "after that, and
when they shall have ceased to have any connection with the
ship, and when, therefore, they shall have ceased to be passengers, the acts of Congress applying to them as such, and only
professing to legislate in relation to them- as such, have then
performed their office, and can with no propriety of language
be said to come in conflict with the law of a State, whose operation only begins where that of the laws of Congress ends."
That is, that the passenger acts, as my brother Catron has
shown in his opinion, extend to his protection, from all State
interference, by taxation or otherwise, from the time of his
embarcation abroad~until he is lauded in the port of the United
States for which-the vessel sailed.
The States have also reserved the police right to turn off
from their territories paupers, vagabondls, and fugitives from
justice. But they have not reserved the use of taxation universally-as the means to accomplish that object, b they had it
before they became the United States.. :aving surrendered
to the United States the sovereign police power over commerce, to be exercised by Congress or the treaty-making power,
it is necessarily a part of the power of the United States to determine who shall .come to and reside in the United States for
36*

426

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Wayne's Opinion.

the purposes of trade, independently of every other conditioni
of admittance which the States may attempt to impose upon
such persons. When it is done in either way, the Pnited
States, of course, subject the foreigner to the- laws of the
United States, and cannot exempt him from the inteknal power
of police of the States in any particular in which it is not constitutionally in conflict with the laws of the United States.
And in this sense it is that, in treaties providing for such mutual admission of foreigners between nations, it is' universally
said, "but subject always to the laws and statutes of the two
countries respectively" but certainly not to such of the laws
of .a State as would exclude the foreigner, or which add anotlfer condition to his admission into the United"States.'
And,.further, I may here remark that this right of taxation
claimed for the States upon foreign passengers is inconsistent
with the naturalization clause in the Constitution, and the laws
of Congress regulating it. If a State can, by taxation or
otherwise, direct upon what terms foreigners may come into it,
it may defeat the whole and long-cherished policy of this country and of the Constitution in respect to immigrants coming
to the United States.
But I have said the States have the right to turn off paupers,
vagabonds, and fugitives from justice, and the States where
slaves are have a constitutional right to exclude all such as
are, from a common ancestry and country, of the same class of
men. And when Congress shall legislate, - if it be not disrespectful for one who is a member of the judiciary to suppose
so absurd a thing of another department of the government, to make paupers, vagabonds, suspected persons, and fugitives
from justice subjects of admission into the United States, I do
not doubt it will be found and declared, should it ever become a matter for judicial decision, that such persons are not
within the regulating power which the United States have
over commerce.- Paupers, vagabonds, and fugitijres never have
been subjects of rightful national intercourse, or of commercial
regulations, except in the transportation, 6f them 'to distant
colonies to get rid of them, or for punishment as convicts.
They have no rights of national intercourse; no one has a
right to transport them, without authority of law, from where
they are to any other place, and their only rights where they
may be are such as the law gives to all men who have not
altogether forfeited its protection. The States may meet such persons uponf their arrival in port,
and may put them, under all proper restraints. They may
prevent them from entering their territories, may carry them
out or drive them off. But can such a police power be right-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

427

Passenger Cases.- Mr. Justice Wayne's Opinion.

fully exercised over those who are not paupers, vagabonds, or
fugitives from justice? The international right of visitation
forbids it. The freedom or liberty of commerce allowed by
all European nations to the inhabitants of other nations does
not permit it ; and the constitutional obligations of the States
of this Union to the United States, in respect to commerce and
navigation and naturalization, have qualified the original discretion of the States as to who shall come and live in the
United States. Of-the extent of those qualifications, or what
may be the rights of the United States. and the States individually in that regard, I shall not speak now.
But it was assumed that a State has unlimited-discretion, in
virtue of its- unsurrendered police power, to determine -what
persons shall reside in it. Then it was said to follow, that the
State can remove all persons who are thought dangerous to its
welfare and to this right to remove, it was said, the right to
determine who shall enter the State is an inseparable incident.
That erroneous proposition of the State's discretion in this
matter has led to all the more mistaken inferences made from
it. The error arose from its having been overlooked that a
part of the supreme police power of a nation is identical, as I
have shown it to be,. with its sovereignty over commerce. Or,
more properly speaking, the regulation of commerce is one of
those particular rights collectively placed in the hands of the.
sovereign for the good of the State. Until it is shown that
the police power in one'of its particulars is not what it has just
been said to be, the discretion of a State of this-Union to determine what persons may come to and reside in it, and what
persons may be removed from it, remains unproved-. It cannot
be proved, and the laws of Massachusetts and New York derive no support from police power in favor of their constitutionality.
Some reliance in the argument was put upon the cases of
Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Pet. 540, Groves v. Slaughter, 15 Pet.
449, and Prigg v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 16 Pet.
539, to maintain the discretion of a State to say who shall
come to and live in it. Why either case should have been
cited for such a purpose I was at a loss to know, and have been
more so from a subsequent examination of each of them.
All that is decided in the case of Holmes v. Jennison is, that
the States of this Union have no constitutional power to give
up fugitives from justice to the authorities of a nation from
which they have fled. That it is not an international obligation to do so, and that all authority to make treaties for such a
purpose is in the United States.

-

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Wayne's Opinion.

The point ruled, in the case of Groves v. Slaughter is, that
the State of Mississippi could constitutionally prohibit negroes
from being br6ught into that State for sale as merchandise,
but that the provision in her constitution required legislation
before it acted upon the subject-matter.
The case of Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
is inapplicable to the cases before us, except in tjie support
which it gives to the congtruction of the police power, as'stated
in this opinion, - that it is applicable to idlers, vagabonds, paupers, and, I may add, fugitives from justice, and suspecte&
persons.
Miln's case I will speak of hereafter, and. now only say that
no point was ruled in it, either in respect to commerce or the
right of the State to a list of passengers who may come-by sea
into New York after they are landed, which gives any countenance or support to the laws now in question.
The fear ex

essed, that if the States have not the discretion

to determine 4ho may come and live in them, the United
States may introduce into the Southern States emancipated
negroes from the West Ihdies and elsewhere, has no foundation. It is not an allowable inference from the denial of that
position, or the assertion of the reverse of-it.
All the political sovereignty of the United States, within
the States, milst be exercised according to the subject-matter
upon which it may be brought to bear, and according to what
was the actual condition of the States in their domestic imstitutions when the Constitution was formed, until a State, shall
please to alter them: The Constitution was formed by States
inwhich slavery existed, and was not likely to be relinquished,
and States in which slavery had been, but was abolished, or
for the prospective abolition of which provision had been made
by law. The undisturbed continuance of that difference between the States at that time, unless as it might be changed
by a State itself, was the recognized condition in the Constitution for the national Union. It has that, and n.an have no
other, foundation.
Is it not acknowledged by all that the ninth section of the
first article of the Constitution is a recognition of that fact ?
There are other clauses in the Constitution eqially, and srome
of them more, expressive of it.
That is a very narrow view of the Constitution which supposes that any political sovereign right given by it can be exercised, oFwas meant to be used, by the United States in such a
way as to dissolve, or even disquiet, the fundamental organization of. either of the States. The Constitution is to be interpreted by what was the condition of the parties to it when it

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

429

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Wayne's Opinion.

was formed, by their object and purpose in forming it, and by
the actual recognition in it of the dissimilar institutions of the
States. The exercise of constitutional power by the United
States, or the consequences of -its exercise, are not to be concluded by the summary logic of ifs and syllogisms.
It will be found, too, shoffld this matter of introducing free
negroes into the Southern' States ever become the subject of
judicial inquiry, that they haye a guard against it in -the Constitution, making it altogether unnecessary for them to resort
to the casus gentis extraordinarius,the casus extremce necessitatis of nations, for their protection and preservation. They
may rely upon the Constitution, and the correct interpretation
of it, without seeking to be relieved from any of their obligations under it, or having recourse to the jus neesstatis for selfpreservation.
I have purposely refrained from repeating any thing that has
been said in the opinions of my lehrned brothers, with whom I
am united in pronouncing the laws of Massachu'setts and New
York in question unconstitutional. What they have said for
themselves they have, also said for me, and I do not believe
that I have said any thing in this opinion which is not sanctioned by them.
Having- said all that I mean to say directly concerning the
cases before us, I will now do what I have long wished to do,
but for which a proper opportunity has -not been presented be.
fore. It is to make a narrative in respect to the case of The
City of New York v. Miln, reported in 11 Peters, 102, that
hereafter the profession may know definitely what was and
what was not decided in that case by this court. It has been
much relied upon in the cases before us for what was not decided by the court.
The opinion given by Mr. Justice Barbour in that case,
though reported as the opinion of the court, had not at any
time the concurrence of a majority of its members, except in this
particular,- that so much of the act of New York as required
the captain-of a vessel to report his passengers as the act directs
it to be done was a police regulation, and therefore was not
unconstitutional or a violation of the power of Congress to regulate commerce. In that particular, and in that only, and, as it
is said in the conclusion of the opinion, "that so much of the
section of the act of the legislature of New York as applies 'to
the breaches assigned in the declaration does not assume to
regulate commerce between the port of New York and foreign
(11
ports, and that so much of said act is constitutional."
Peters, 143.) But as to all besides in that opinion as to the constitutional power of Congress to regulate commerce, -except

430

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Wayne's Opinion.

the disclaimer in the 132d page, that it was not intended to enter into any examination of the question, whether the power to
regulate commerce be or be not exclusive of the States, - and
especially the declaration that persons were not the subjects of
comiperce, the opinion had not the assent of a majority of the
members of this court, nor even that of a majority of the judges
who concurred in the judgment. The report of the case in
Peters, and the opinion of Mr. Justice Baldwin, accidentally
excluded from the report, without the slightest fault in the
then reporter of the court or in the clerk, but which we have
in full in Baldwin's View of the Constitution, published in the
same year, fully sustain what I have just said., I mention
nothing from memory, and stand upon the record for all that I
have said, or shall say, concerning the case.
The court then consisted of seven justices, including the
chief justice; all of us were present at the argument; all of us
were in consultation .upon the case; all of us heard the opinions
read, which were written by Messrs. Justices Thompson and
Barbour, in the case; and all of us, except Mr. Justice Baldwin,
were present in this room when Mr. Justice Barbour read the
_opinion which appears in Peters as the opinion of the court.
The case had been argued by counsel on both sides, as if the
whole of, the act of New York were involved in the certificate
of the division of opinion by which it was brought before this
court.c The point certified was in these words: - "That the
act of the legislature of New York; mentioned in the plaintiff's
declaration, assumes to regulate trade and commerce between
the ports of New York and foreign ports, and is unconstitutional and void."
• In the consultation of the judges upon the case, as the report
shows, the first point considered by us was one of jurisdiction.
That is, that the point certified was a submission of the whole
case, which is not permitted, and was not a specific point arising on the trial of the cause. The court thought it was the
latter, principally fdr the -reason given by Mr. Justice Thompson, as it appears in his opinion. That reason was, that the
question arose upon a general demurrer to the declaration, and
that the certificate under which the cause was sent to this
court contains-, the pleadings upon -which the question arose,
which show that no part of the act was drawn in question, except that which relates to the neglectof the master ,to repprt to
the mayor or recorder an account of his passengers, ,according
to the requisitions of the act. , In the discussion of the,,'case,
however, bythe judges, the nature and exclusiveness of the
power in Congress to, regulate commerce was much, considered.
There- was a divided mind among us about it. Four of the

JANUARY TERM, 1-849.

431

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Wayne's Opinion.

court being of the opinion, that, according to the Constitution
and the decisions of this court in Gibbons v. Ogden and in'
Brown v. Maryland, the power in Congress to regulate commerce was exclusive. Three of them thought otherwise.
And to this state of the court is owing the disclaimer in the
opinion, already mentioned by me, that the exclusiveness of the
power to regulate commerce was not in the case a point for
examination.
But there was another point of difference among the judges
in respect to what was commerce under the constitutional grant
to Congress, particularly whether it did not include an intercourse of persons and passengers in vessels. Two of the court
-

the report of the case shows it-

thought, in the language

of the opinion, that "persons are not subjects of commerce."
Mr. Justice Thompson declined giving any opinion on that
point, and repeated it in the opinion published by him. Four
of the justices, including Mr. Justice Baldwin, thought that
commerce did comprehend the intercourse of persons or passengers. For this statement I refer to the opinion of Mr. Justice
Thompson, to the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Story, to
the opinion of Mr. Justice Baldwin, to the constantly avowed
opinion of Mr. Justice McLean, and to what has always been
known by the justices of this court to be my own opinion upon
this point.
In this state of the opinions of the court, Mr. Justice Thompson was designated to write an opinion, - that the law in question was a police regulation, and not unconstitutional. He did
so, and read to the court the opinion, which he afterwa rds published. It was objected to by a majority of the court, on
account of some expressions in it concerning the power of Congress to regulate commerce, and as our differences could not be
reconcildd, Mr. Justice Thompson said he would read it as his
own.
Then Mr. Justice Barbour was asked to write an opinion for
the majority of the court. He did so, and read that which is
printed as such, in our last conference of that term, the night
before the adjournment of the court. The next day it was
read in court, all of the judges being present when, it was
read, except Mr. Justice Baldwin. In the course of that
morning's sitting, or immediately after it, Mr. Justice Baldwin,
having examined the opinion, objected to its being considered
the opinion of the court, on account of what was said- in it
concerning the power of Congress to regulate commerce, and
what was commerce. He sought Mr. Justice Barbour, with
the view of having it erased from the opinion, declaring, as
all the rest of us knew, that his objection to the opinion of

432

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Waynes Opinion.

Mr. Justice Thompson was on account of what it contained
upon the- subject of commerce; that his objection to the
reasoning upon the same matter in Mr. Justice Barbour's
opinion was stronger, and that he had only assented that an
opinion, for the court should be written, on. the understanding
,that so much of the act of New York as was in issue by the
pleadings should be treated as a regulation, not of commerce,
but police. Without his concurrence, no opinion could" have
been written. Unfortunately, Mr. Justice Barbour had left the
court-room immediately after reading his- opinion, already prepared to leave Washington in a steamer which was in waiting
for him. Mr. Justice Baldwin- did not see him. The court
was adjourned. Then: there was no authority to make any
alteration in what had been read-as the opinion of the court.
Mr. Justice Baldwin wished it, but, under the circumstances of
preparation .which each judge was making for his departure
from Washington, nothing was done, and Mr. Justice Baldwin
determined to neutralize what he objected to in the opinion by
publishing in the reports his own opinion of the case. That
was not done, but he did so contemporarily with the publication of the reports, in his View of the Constitution. There it
is, to. speak for itself, and it shows, as I have said, that so much
of -the-opinion in the case of New York v. Miln as related- to
commerce did not have the assent of Mr. Justice Baldwin, and
therefore not the assent of a majority of the court.
How, then, did the case stand? Mr. Justice Thompson gave
his own opinion, agreeing with that of Mr. Justice Barbour, that
so much of the section of the act of the legislature of New
York as applies to the breaches assigned in the declaration
does not assume to regulate commerce between the port of
New York and foreign ports, and that so much of said section
is constitutional, but giving his own views of the conimercial
question as it stood in relation to the case..- The attitude of
Mr. Justice Baldwin with respect to the opinion has just been
told.' Mr. Justice Story dissented from every part of the
opinion, on the ground that the section of the act in controversy was a regulation of commerce, which a State could not
constitutionally pass. Mr. Justice McLean is here to speak for
himself, and he did then speak as he has done to-day in these
cases concerning the power in Congress to regulate commerce
being exclusive, and held that persons are the subjects of commerce as well as goods, contrary to what is said in the opinion
(136th page), that persons are not. I certainly objected to the
opinion then, for the same reasons as Mr. Justice McLean.
Thus there were left of the seven judges but two, the Chief
Justice and Mr. Justice Barbour, in favor of the opinion- as a
"
whole.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

433

Passenger Cases. -Mr. Justice Wayne's Opinion.

I have made this narrative and explanation, under a -sol;emn conviction of judicial duty, to disabuse (he public mind
from wrong impressions of what this court did decide in that
case; and particularly from the misapprehension that it was
ever intended by this court, in the case of New York v. Miln,
to reverse or modify, in any way or in the slightest particular,
what had been the judgments and opinions-expressed by this
court in the cases of Gibbons v. Ogden and Brown v. Maryland. And I am happy in being able to think, notwithstanding the differing opinions which have been expressed concerning what was decided in those cases, that they are likely to
stand without reversal.
The chief justice, the morning after I had read the foregoing
statement in the case of New York v. Miln, nade another to
counteract it, in which he says his recollections differ from
mine in several particulars. I do not complain of it in any
way. But it enables me to confirm my own in some degree
from his, and in every other particular in which it does not
give such assistance, the facts related by me are indisputable,
being all in the report of the case in Peters, from which I took
them. They are in exact coincidence, too, with my own recollectiohs.
The only fact in my statement not altogether, but in part,
taken from the record, is Mr. Justice Baldwin's discontent with
the opinion written by Mr. Justice Barbour, and his wish that
it might not -as a whole be published in. our volume of reports as the opinion of the court. The chief justice admits
that Mr.-Justice Baldwin did apply to him after the adjournment of the court,.and before they left Washington, for that
purpose. Now if, by mistake or oversight, a judge shall fall
into an admission, which more care afterwards enables him to
recall and correct before the judgment has been published, but
after it has been read, whatever may be .the operation of the
judgment, does it follow that the argument in the opinion -in
which the judgment is given continues to be the law of the
court? And if the same judge, after more careful and matured
thought, publishes contemporarily his opinion, differing from'
the dictum which had escaped his. notice, will that make it
law ? Is it not plain that it is a case of mistake, which cannot
make the law? And if his cooperation is- essential to the validity of the original opinion, from those who may advocate it
being thrown into the minority by his withdrawal, and his
declaration that he never meant to codperate in it in the'particular objected to, can it be said that it. ever was the law of
the court? Is it at all- an uncommon thing in the English and
American law reports, that a case is published as law which is
voL. VW1.

37

434

SUPREME .COURT.
Passenger Cases.-

Mr. Justice Wayne's Opinion.

deemed afterwards not to be so, on account of error in its publication, ftom its not having -been really the opinion of the
court when it was published ? Mistake in all cases restores
things to the correct condition in which they were before the
mistake was made, except where the policy of the law has determined that it shall be otherwise. A single mistaken- and
misstated case is not within that policy. Long acquiescence,
or repeated judicial decisions, may be, and then only because,
the interests of society have been accommodated to the error.
But the chief justice says that he has the strongest reason
t6 suppose that Mr. Justice Baldwin became satisfied, because,
in his opini6n in the case of Groves v. Slaughter, he quotes
the case of New York v. Miln with approbation, whep speaking in that case of the difference between commercial and
police powers.
I 'certainly cannot object to the opinion of Mr. Justice Baldwin in Groves v. Slaughter being a test between the chief
justice and myself in this matter; for Mr. Justice Baldwin's
opinion in that .case is the strongest proof that could have been
given four years afterwards, by himself, that he never was reconciled to the opinion of Mr. Justice Barbour in Miln's case
as a whole. For instance, in that opinion he does not leave
the exclusive power of Congress to regulate commerce to the
disclaimer in Miln's case, that it was not the intention of the
judges to decide that point in that case.- He, says,-" That
the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the States
is exclusive of any interference by the States has been, in my
opinion, conclusively settled by the solemn opinions 'of this
court in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 186- 222 ;.and in Brown
v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 438 -446.
If these decisions are not
to be taken as. the established construction of this clause of the
Constitution, I know of none which are not yet open to doubt,
nor can there be any adjudications of this court which must
be considered as authoritative upon any question, if these are
not to be so on this." And the learned judge goes on to say,
-"Cases
may indeed arise, wherein' there may be found
difficulty in discriminating between regulations of commerce
among the several, States and the regulation of the internal
police .of a State, but the subject-matter of such regulations of
either description will ,lead to the true line which separates
them, when they are examined with a disposition to.avoid a
collision between the powers granted to the Federal govern'mnt by the people of the several States and those which they
reserved exclusively to themselves. Commerce among the
States, as defined by, this court, is trade, traffic, intercourse,
and. dealing in articles of commerce between States by its citi-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.
Passenger Cases.-

435

Mr. Justice Wayne's Opinion.

zens or others, and carried on in more than one State. Police
relates only to the internal concerns of one State; and commerce within it is purely a matter of internal regulation, when
confined to those articles which have become so distributed asto form items in the common mass of property. It follows,
that any regulation which affects the commercial intercourse
between any two or more States, referring solely thereto, is
within the iowers-granted exclusively to, Congress, and that
those regulations which affect only the commerce carried on
within one State, or which refer only to subjects of internal
police, aie within the powers reserved." And then it is that
the sentence follows cited by the chief justice to show that he
had reason to suppose that Mr. Justice Baldwin had become
satisfied. The citation made- by me from his opinion shows
what his opinion was in respect to the power of Congress to
regulate commerce, confirming what I have said in my statement, that four of us 'were of the same opinion when that point
was touched upon in the case of Miln, and that Mr. Justice
Baldwin refused to sanction what was said by Mr. Justice
Thompson in respect to it in the opinion written by him for
the court in Miln's case. And that he was not satisfied as to
that sentence of Mr. Justice Barbour's opinion in which it is
said that persons are not the subjects of commerce, is manifest
from that part of his opinion in Groves v. Slaughter in which
he says that commerce is ,"trade, trafic, intercourse " ; - intercourse, in the sense of commerce, meaning, as it always does,
"1connection by reciprocal dealings between persons and nations." But, further, the chief justice says that Mr. Justice
Baldwin called upon him and said there was a sentence or
paragraph in the opinion with which he-was dissatisfied, and
wished altered, thus confirming all that I have said in respect
to the case in what is in it concerning persons not being the
subjects of commerce, that being the only declaration in the
opinion relating to commerce, it having been previously declared that the exclusiveness of the regulation of commerce in
Congress was not to be decided. - All that was meant to be decided in Miln's case was, that the regulation stated in the certificate of division of opinion between the judges in the Circuit Court was not a regulation of commerce, but one of police.
In respect to our lamented -brother Barbour not knowing the
dissatisfaction of our brother Baldwin and other members of
the court with the opinion, I know that he did kriow-it. In
regard to the chief justice's declaration, that he had never
heard any further dissatisfaction expressed with the opinion by
Mr. Justice Baldwin, and never at any time, until this case
came before us, heard any from any other member of the court
-

436

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Wayne's Opinion.

who had assented to or acquiesced in the opinioxr; while, of
course, that must be taken to be so, as far as the chief justice
is concerned, I -must say that I have never, in any instance,
heard the case of Miln cited for the purpose of showing that
persons are not within the regulating power of Congress over
commerce, without at once saying to the counsel that that point
had not been decided in that case. -I have repeatedly done so
in open court, and, as I supposed, was heard by every member
of it. I have only said,'in reply to the chief justice's statement, what was necessary to show that it was not decided in
Miln's case, by this court, that persons are not within the power
of Congress to regulate commerce.
Indeed, it wolild be most, extraordinary if the case of Gibbons v. Ogden could be considered as having been reversed by
a single sentence in the opinion of New York v. Mili; upon
a point, too, not in any way involved in theccertificate of the
division of opinion by which that case was brought to this
court. The sentence is, that I!they [persons] are not the sub.jects of commerce; and, not being imported goods, cannot fall
within a train of reasoning founded upon the construction
of a power given to Congress to 'regulate commerce, and the
prohibition to the States from imposing a duty on imported
goods."
In'the case of Gibbons v. Ogden the court said, - Commerce is traffic; but it is something more. It is intercourse.
It describes the commercial intercourse between nations in all
its branches, and is regulated by prescribing rules for carrying
on that intercourse."
Again: -'"
These words comprehend every species of commercial intercourse between the United States and foreign nations. No sort of trade can be carried on between this country and any other to which this power does not extend." "In
regulating commerce with foreign nations, the power of C6ngress does not stop at the jurisdictional lines of the several
States. It would be a very useless power if it could not pass
those lines." "If Congress has the power to regulate it, that
power must be exercised whenever the subject exists. If it
exists within the States, if a foreign voyage may commence or
terminate at a port within a State, then the power of Congress may be exercised within a State." "The power of Congress comprehends navigation within the limits of every State
in the Union, so far as that navigation may be connected with
commerce with foreign nations, or among the several -States."
"It is the power to regulate ; that is, to prescribe the rule by
Which commerce is governed.-" "Vessels have, always been
employed to a greater or less extent in the transportation of

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

437

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

passengers, and have never been supposed, on that account,
withdrawn from the control or protection of Congress. Packets
which ply along the coast, as well as those which make voyages between Europe and 'America, consider the transportation
of passengers as an important part of their business. Yet it
never has been suspected that the general laws of navigation
did not apply to them. A coasting-vessel employed in the
transportation of passengers is as much a portion of the Amencan marine as one employed in the transportation of cargo."
In my opinion, the case of Gibbons v. Ogden rules the cases
before ug. If there were no other reasons, with such an authority to direct my course, I could not refrain from saying
that the acts of Massachusetts and New York, so far as they
are in question, are unconstitutional and void.
The case of Gibbpns v. Ogden, in the extent and variety of
learning, and in the acuteness of distinction with which it was
argued by counsel, is not surpassed by any other case in the
reports of courts. In the consideration given to it by the
court, there are proofs of judicial ability, and of close and precise discrimination of most difficult points, equal to any other
judgment on record. To my mind, every proposition in it has
a definite and unmistakable meaning. Commentaries cannot
cover them up or make them doubtful.
The case will always be a high and honorable proof of the
emmenee of the American bar of that day, and of the talents
and distinguished ability of the judges who were then in the
places which we now occupy,
There were giants in those days, and I 'hope I may be allowed to say, without more than judicial impressiveness- of
manner or of words, that I rejoice that the structure raised by
them for the defence of the Constitution has not this day been
weakened by their successors.
Mr. Justice CATRON.
SMITH V. TUNER.

The first question arising in this controversy is, whether the
legislation of New York, giving rise to the suit, is a regulation
of commerce, and this must be ascertained, in a great degree,
from. a due consideration of the State laws regulating the port
of the city of New York in respect to navigation and -intercourse. They are embodied in a system running through various titles in the Revised $tatutes. The sections on which the
action before us is founded will be found in Vol. I. pp. 445, 446.
Title fourth purports to treat of the marine hospital and its
funds, then, in 1829, erected on Staten Island, under the super37 *

438

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

intendence of a,health-officer, who is to be a physician, and
certain commissioners of health. By section seventh, it is provided, -that "the health-commissioner shall demand and be entitled to receive, and in case of neglect or refusal to pay shall
sue for and recover, in his name of office, the following sums
from the master of every vessel that shall arrive in the port
of New York, viz. - 1. From the master of every vessel
from a foreign port, for himself and every cabin passenger, one
dollar and fifty cents, and for each steerage passenger, mate,
sailor, or marine, one dollar. 2. From the master of each
coasting-vessel, for each person on board, twenty-five cents;
but no coasting-vessel from the States of New Jersey, Connecticut, and Rhode Island shall pay for more than one voyage in each month, computing from the first voyage in each
year.)
"'Sec. 8. The moneys so received shall be denominated
'hospital moneys,' and shall be appropriated to the use of the
marine hospital, deducting a commission to the health-commissioner of two and one half per cent. for collection."
Turner, the heal h-commissioner. sued Smith, as master of
the ship Henry Bliss, a British vessel, coming from Liverpool,
in England, for the amount of money claimed as due from the
defendant under the above provisions, becaue he brought in
.two hundred and ninety-five steerage passengers, who were
British subjects, immigrating into the United States, and in-tending to become inhabitants thereof.
By section ninth, the master paying the hospital money may
recover from each person for whom it was paid the sum paid.
on his account, in case of a foreign vessel', and by section tenth,
the master of a coasting-vessel shall pay the tax in twenty-four
hours after the vessel arrives in port, under the penalty of one
hundred dollars.
The eleventh section directs the health-commissioners annually to account to the Comptroller of the. State for the moneys
received by them by means of the tax for the use of the marine
hospital. and if such moneys shall in any one year exceed the
-sum necessary to defray the expenses of their trust, including
salaries, &c., they shall pay over such surplus to the Society
for the Reformation of Juvenile Delinquents in the city of New
York, for the use of that society
By the act of'April 25th, 1840, the Comptroller of the State
was authorized to draw on the treasurer, annually, for twenty
years, a slim iot exceeding fifteen thousand dcllars in each
year, for the benefit of the State hospital in the city, and a sum
of eight thousand dollars is there recognized as payable to the
.Society for the Reformation of Juvenile Delinquents, and the

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

439

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

city hospital is bound by te act to support at least twenty indigent persons from any part of the State. Thus a State hospital is also supported out of the funde-as well as an institution
for young culprits, imposing an annual charge on the fund of
twenty-three thousand dollars, having no. necessary connection
with commerce, and, by- the act of 1841, three medical dispensaries are endowed. out of the fund to an amount of four
thousand five hundred dollars.
The ship Henry Bliss wm, -engaged m foreign commerce
when she arrived in the port of New York, and when the tax
was demanded of Smith, the master, by Turner, -the healthcommissioner. The baggage of passengers was on board, and
alho their tools of trade, if they had any, and of course the passengers were on boara, for the master is sued, m one count, for
landing them after the demand. The tax of two hundred and
ninety-five dollars was therefore demanded before the- voyage
was ended, or the money earned for carrying passengers, and
their goods. The vessel itself was undoubtedly regulated by
our acts of Congress, and also by our treaty with Great Britain
of 1815,- the national- character of the vessel being -British.
She had full liberty to land, and so the goods on board belonging to trade and coming in for sale stood regulatedi and
could be landed and -entered at the custom-house. And by the
same treaty, passengers on board coming to the United States
in pursuit of commerce in buying and selling were free to
land. The master and crew were of the ship and"navigation,
and stood equally regulated with the ship. The property of
passengers could not be taxed or seized, being expressly and
affirmatively protected by the act of 1799. It was an import,
and whilst it continued in form of an import, could be lauded
and transferred by the owners inland. Tkis is the effect of the
decision in Brown v. The State of Maryland. As the State
power had nothing left to act upon but the person simply, nor
any means of collecting the tax from passengers, it was levied
on the master, of necessity, in a round sum.
As the ship ,was regulated, and was free to land all the property on board, the question arises, whether these immigrant
passengers were not also regulated, and entitled by law to accompany their goods and to land. exempt from State taxation.
The record states, that C1the two hundred and ninetyfive passengers imported in the ship Henry Bliss belonged to
Great Britain. and intended to become inhabitants of the United
States."
By the laws of nations, all'commerce by personal intercourse
is free until restricted, nor has our government at any time
proposed to restrain by taxation such immigrants as the reord
describes.

440

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

Our first step towards establishing an independent government was by the Declaration of Independence. By that act
it was declared that the British king had endeavoured to
prevent the population of the colonies by obstructing the laws
for the naturalization of foreigners, and refusing to pass others
to encourage their migration 'hither, and raising the conditions
of new appropriations of lands. During the Confederation,
the States passed naturalization laws for themselves, respectively, m which there was great want of uniformity, and'therefore the Constitution provided that Congress should have power
"to establish a uniform rule of naturalization." In execution
of this poweri Congress passed an act at its second session,
(March 26th, 1790,) providing that any alien, being a free
white person, who shall have resided i the United States two
years, and m any one State one year, may become a citizen by
taking an oath to support the Constitution in a court of record,
and such step shall naturalize all the childien of such, person
under twenty-one years of age. In 1795, another act was
passed (ch. '0), requiring five yearsYresidence, and on the 26th
of April, 1802, (ch. 28,) the naturalization laws were amended.
This act is now in force, with slight alterations. Under these
laws have been -admitted such numbers, that they and their
descendants consfitute a great part of our population. Every
department of science, of labor, occupation, and pursmt, is filled
up, more. or less, by naturalized citizens and their numerous
offspring. From the first day of our separate existence to this
time has the policy of drawing hither aliens, to the end of becoming citizens, been afavorite policy'of the United States, it
has been cherished by Congress with rare steadiness and vigor.
By this policy our extensive and fertile country has tbeen, to a
considerable extent, filled up by a respectable population, bothphysically and mentally, one that is easily governed and usually
of approved patriotism. We have invited to come to our country from other lands all free white persons, of every grade and
of every religious belief, and when here to enjoy our protection, and at the end of five years to enjoy all 6 ur rights, except
that of becoming President of the United States. Pursuant to
this.notorious and long established policy, the two hundred and
ninety-five passengers in .the Henry Bliss arrived at the port
of New York.
Keeping m view the spirit of the Declaration of Independence with respect to the importance of augmenting the population of the.United States, and the early laws of naturalization,
Congress, at divers subsequent periods, passed laws to facilitate
and- encourage more .anal more the inmigration of Europeans
into the United States f6r' the purpose of settlement and residence.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

441

Passenger. Cases:-Mr. Justice Catrons Opinion.

The twenty-third section of the general collection -act of the
2d of March, 1799, requires that every master of a vessel arnvingin the United .States shall have on board a manifest, in writing,
signed by such master, of the goods, wares, and merchandise
on board such vessel, "together with the name or names of
the several passengers on board the said ship or vessel, distinguishing whether cabin or steerage passengers, or both, with
their baggage, specifying the number and description of packages belonging to each respectively"
The twenty-fifth section of the same act makes it the duty
of the master to produce, on-Is a'rival within four leagues of
the coast, such manifest to such officer or officers of the customs as shall first come on board his said ship or vessel, and
by the twenty-sixth section, a fine of five hundred dollarsis
impdsed on the master for not producing such manifest.
By the thirtieth section of the same act, the master is required, within twenty-four hours after his arrival from a foreign
port, to repair to the office of the collector and make report of
the arrival of his ship, "and within forty-eight hours after
such arrival, shall make a further report in writing to the collector of the district, which repsrt shall be in the form, and
shall contain all the particulars, required to be mserted in a
manifest", and he is required to make oath or solemn affirmation to the truth of such report. But the material section of
that act is the fory-sixth. That section declares, that "the
wearing apparel, and other personal baggage, and the tools or
implements of a mechanical trade pnly, of persons who arrive
in the United Stittes shall be free of duty"
The same section prescribes a form of declaration, that the packages contain
no goods or merchandise other than the wearing apparel, personal baggage, and tools of trade belonging to the person mak'ing the declaration, or his family Before the property exempt
from duty is allowed, to be landed, a permit to do so must be
obtained from the collector of the port, and each owner is
bound to pay a fee for such privileges, for the support of the
revenue-officers.
It is quite obvious, from these proceedings, that the passengers who were thus 14 the contemplation of Congress were, for
the most part, immigrants, or persons coming to settle in the
United States with their families. The act of the 27th of
April, 1816, section second, regnacts, imsubstance, that part of
the forty-sixth section of the act of the 2d of March, 1799,
above quoted. Exemptions and privileges in favor of passengers arriving in the United -States are carried still further, by
the provisions of the fourth subdivision of the ninth section
of the duty act of the 30th of August, 1842. Among articles

442

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

declared by that act to be free of duty are "wearing apparel
in actual use, and other personal effects, not merchandise, professional books, instruments, implements and tools of trade,
occupation, or employment, of persons arriving in the United
States." This provision is.very broad. It not only exempts
from duty tools of mechanical trades, but all instruments and
implements of occupation and employment, and also all professional books, without limitation of value or numbers.
A still further enlargement of these privileges and exemptions is contained in the duty act of the 30th of July, 1846, for
the eleventh section of that act (schedule 1), in addition to the
passengers' articles made free by the act of 1842, declares.free
from duty "household effects, old and in use, of persons or
families from foreign countries, if used abroad by them, and
not intended for any other person or persons."
Now, is it possible to reconcile State laws, -laying direct and
heavy taxes on every immigrant passenger and every member
of his family, with this careful, studied, and ever-increasing
security of immigrants against every legal burden or charge of
any kind) Could Congress have done more than it has done,
unless it had adopted what would have been justly regarded
as a strange act of legislation, the insertion of passengers themselves m the list of free articles ?
The first and one of the principal acts to be performed on
bringing slps and, goods from foreign countries into the United
States is the production of a manifest, and in such manifest,
along with the specifications of the cargo, the names and description of the passengers, with a specification of their packages of property, are to be inserted. Then comes a direct exemption of all such property from duties. All agree, that, if
Congress had included the owners, and declared that immigrants might come into the country free of tax, these State
laws would be void, and can any man say, m the face of the
legislation of Congress from 1799 to 1846, that the will of
Congress is not as clearly manifested as if it had made such
a direct declaration
It is evident that, by these repeated and
well-considered acts of legislation, Congress has covered, and
has intended to cover, the whole field of legislation over this
branch of commerce. Certain conditions and restraints it has
imposed, and subject to these only, and acting m the spirit of
all our history and all our policy, it h~s opened the door wiaely
and invited the subjects of other countries to leave the crowded
population of Europe and come to the United States, and seek
here new homes for themselves and their families. We cannot
take into consideration what may or may not be the policy
adopted or cherished by particular States, some States may
I

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

443

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Catron's Opimon.

be more desirous than others that immigrants from Europe
should come and settle themselves within their limits, and in
this respect no one State can rightfully claim the power of
thwarting by its own authority the established policy of all the
States umted.
The foregoing conclusions are fortified by the provisions of
the act of March 2d, 1819. It provides that not more than
two passengers shall be brought or carried to each five tons'
measure of the vessel, under a severe pexialty, and if the number exceeds the custom-house measure by twenty persons, the
vessel itself shall be forfeited, according to the nnmiety-first section of the act of 1799. The kind and quantity of provisions
are prescribed, as well as the quantity of water, and if the passengers are put on short allowance, a right is given to them to
recover at the rate of three dollars. a day to each passenger,
and they are allowed to recover the same in the manner seamen's wages are recovered, that is, in a summary manner, in a
District Court of the United States. The master is also required, when the vessel arrives in the United States, at the
same time that lie delivers a manifest of his cargo,. and if
there be none, then when he makes entry of the vessel, to deliver and report to the collector, by manifest, all the passengers
taken on board' the ship at any foreign port or place, designating age, sex, and occupation, the country to which they severally belong, and that of which it is their intention to become
inhabitants, which manifest shall be sworn to as manifests of
cargo are, and subject to the same penalties. These regulations apply to foreign vessels as well as to our own, which
bring Dassengers to the United States.
1. By the legislation of Congress, the passenger is allowed to
sue in a court of the United States, and there to appear in person, as a seaman may, and have redress for injuries inflicted on
him by the master during the voyage.
2., The passenger is allowed to appear at the custom-house
with his goods, consisting often of all his personal proper.ty,
and there, if required, take the oath prescribed by the acts of
Congress, and get his property relieved from taxation. The
clothes on his person, and the money in his purse, from which
the tax is sought, may freely land as protected imports, and
yet the State laws under consideration forbid the owner to
land, they hold him out of the courts, and separate him from
his property, until, by coercion, he pays to the master for the
use of the State any amount of tax the State may at its discretion set upon. him and upon his family, and' this on the assumption that Congress has not.regulated in respect to his free
admission.

444

.,SUPREME COURT.
Paspnger.. Cses. -Mr. Justice Catron's Op'inion.

"And- howdoes, the assumption stand, that a poll-tax, may be
leviedon-ll-passengers, notwithstanding our commercial treaties?-By
ttefourteenth article of the treaty of 1794 (known
asJay's. treaty) and which article was renewed by. our treaty
with-Grea Britan of 1815, it was stipulated that reciprocal.
liberty of ,commerce should exist between the United States
and&:'ll 'haBritish territories in Europe - 11That the inhabitants ,ofGreat Britain shall have liberty freely and securely
to, pme 1th their ships and cargoes to our ports, to- enter the
same, and.to remain and reside in any part of our territories,
also, to-hii e,nd occupy houses and warehouses for the purposs'of. tbeir commerce." And that no higher or other duties
shdlabe imposed on British vessels than were by our laws
imposed ofAmerican vessels coming into our ports from Great
Biibi, and that our people should have reciprocal rights in
ieBritish ports and-territories.
'The taxes under consideration are imposed on all persons
ngage d
commerce who are aliens, no matter where they are
frqm. "Wehave commercial treaties of the same import with
the ,pne above recited with almost every nation whose inhabiitants grosecute commerce to the United States, all these are
free to come and enter our country, so far as a treaty can se6ureihe right. Many thousands of men are annually engaged
u.this
.
commerce. It is prosecuted, for a.great portion of the
terrmtorv of the United States, at and through the two great
ports where these taxes have been imposed., and it is a~matter
of Aistory, that the greater portion of our foreign commerce
enters these ports. There aliens must come as passengers to
prosecute commerce and to trade, and the question is, Can the
States tax them out, or tax them at all, in the face of our treat ps expressly providing for their free and secure admission
It is thus seen to what dangerous extents these State laws
have been pushed, and that they may be exte! -led, if upheld
by this court, to every ferry-boat that crosses a narrow water
within the flow of tide which divides States, and to all boats
crossing rivers that are State boundaries, is evident.
These laws'now impose taxes on yessels through their masters, in respect to the mastefs and crews, and all passengers on
board, when the vessel commences and ends its voyage within
sight and hearing of the port where the tax is demandable,
making no distinction between citizens and aliens. They tax,
through the masters, all American vessels coming from other
States (inicluding steamboats) protected by coasting -licenses,
under United States authority, and also exempt by the Constitution' from paying duties in another State. They tax,
,.through the masters,' fQreign vessels protected by the Constitu-

445

YANUARY TE&RM, 1849.
Passenger Cases.--]Mr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

tion from tonnage duties, sav by the authority of Congress,
and who are also protected by, trieaty stipulations. They tax
passengers whir-are owners- -and agents of the vessel, and accompany the ship. They -tax owners, agents, and servants
who accompany goods brought in fo" sale, and who are by our
and reside in any part of
treaties at full liberty freely to..nomecommerce.
our territories in pursuit of -foreign
The tax is demandable from the master on entering the port,,.
and the law. provides that, when he pays the money to the
State collector, the master may, by way of remedy over, recover by suit from 6ah passenger the sum paid on-.his account.
And it is.insisted that the master had still a better remedy in
the carrier's lien. on goods of passengers, which he might detain, and by this means coerce payment at once before theves- .
sel lande4.
]Plainly, this latter was the principal mode -of distress contemplated by the State, authorities, as wives and children could.
not be-sued, n6r have they any property, and. therefore proper-,
ty of heads of families could only be reached on their account.
Now what do these lars require the master to do ?- As- theagent of New York, and as her tax-collector, he is required to
levy the tax on goods of passengers, and make it out of. prop-erty which is 'beyond the reach of the State laws; and ybt the.
thing is to be done by.force of these same State laws. Sup--.
pose it to be true, that this' forcing' the master to levy a distress.
on protected goods is yet no tax on him or his vessel, and
theiefore, in that respect, the law laying the' tax does not vie'late the Constitution; all this would only throw the tax from.
one protected subject to another, -it would shift -the bdrden
from the master and vessel on to the goods of the passenger,.
which are as much protected by the Constitution -and acts ;bf
Congress as the Inaster and vessel.
And. how would this assumption, that a State law may es-cape constitutional invasion, by giving a remedy over, operate
in practice ?
Before the Constitution existed, the States taxed the commerce and intercourse of each other. This was the leading
cause of abandoning' the Confederation and forming the Constitution, -niore than all other causes it led to the result; and
the provision prohibiting the States from laying any duty on
imports or exports, and the one which declares that vessels
bound to or from one' State shall not be obliged to enter, clear,
or pay duties -in another, were especially intended to prevent
the evil. Around our extensive seaboard, on our great lakes,
and through our great rivers, this protection is relied on against
State assumption and State interference. Throughout the"
38
voL. Vw.
'

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

Union, our vessels of every description go free and unrestrained,
regardless of State authority. They enter at pleasure, depart
at pleasure, and pay no duties. Steamboats pass for thousands
of miles on rivers that are State boundaries, not knowing nor
regarding in whose juxisdiction they are, claiming protection
under these provisions of the Constitution. -If they did not
exist, such vessels might be harassed by insupportable exactions. If it be the true meaning of the Constitution, that' a
State can evade them by declaring that the mastei may be
taxed in regard to passengers, on the =ere assertion that he
9hall have a remedy over against the passengers, citizens and
aliens, and that the State may assess the amount of tax at discretion, then the old evil will be revived, as the States may
tax at every town and village where a vessel of any kind lands.
They may tax on the assumption of self-defence, or on any
other assumption, and raise a revenue from others, and thereby
exempt .their own inhabitants from taxation.
If the first part of the State law is void, because it lays a
duty on the vessel, under the disguise of taxing its representative, the master, how can the after part, giving the master a
remedy over against passengers, be more valid than its void
antecedent? All property on board belonging, to passengers is
absolutely protected from State taxation. And how can a
State be heard to say, that truly she chnnot make distress on
property for want of power, but still that she can create the
power in the master to do that which her own officers cannot do ?
In the next place, the Constitution, by article first, section
eighth, provides, that "the Congress shall have power to lay
and collect taxes, duties, .imposts, and excises, to pay the debts
and provide for the common' defence and general welfare of the
United States. "
Such taxes. may be laid on foreign commerce- as regulations
of revenue; these regulations are the ordinary ones to which
the Constitution refers. Congress has no power to lay any but
unifoxm taxes when regulating foreign commerce to the end of
revefnue, - taxes equal and alike at all the ports of entry, giving
no one h preference over another. .Nor has Congress power to
lay taxes to pay the debts of a State, nor to provide by taxation for its general welfare. Congress may tax for the treasury of the Union, and here its power ends.
The question, whether the power to regulate commerce and
navigation is exclusive in the government of the United States,
or whether a State may regulate within its own waters and
ports in particular cases., does not arise in this cause. The
question here is, whether a State can regulate foreign -com-

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

447

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

merce by "a revenue measure," for the purposes of its own
treasury. If the State taxes, with the consent of Congress,, the
vessel directly, by a tonnage duty, or indirectlr, by taxing the
master and crew, or taxes the cargo by an impost, or assumes
to tax passengers, or to regulate in any other maode, she assumes to exercise the jurisdiction of Congress, and to regulate
navigation engaged in foreign commerce; she does that which
Congress has the power to do, and is restrained by the Constitution within the same limits to which Congress is restricted.
And as Congress cannot raise money for the benefit of a State
treasury, so neither can a State exercise the same power for the
same purpose.
Again: give the argument all the benefit-that it claims; concede the full municipal power in the State to tax all persons
wiithn her territory, as a general rule, whether they have been
there a year or an hour; and still she could not impose a
capitation tax on these passengers by the hand of her own,
tax-collector. The tax was demanded whilst they were on
board. All the property they brought with them, the clothes
and moneys on their persons, were imports; that is, "property
imported or brought into this country from another country."
No duty could be laid on it by the State; as, until it was separated from the ship, it belonged to foreign commerce, and was'
an import. Had the tax been imposed directly on the passengers, as a poll-tax is on land, and had the heads of families been
bound to pay for their wives, children, and servants, and had
the collector, with the tax-list in his hand (which was an execution in fact), gone on .board, he would have found no property that was not protected, which he could touch by way of
distress to make the money. The passengers could defy him,
could turn about, go to another port in the next State, land,
and go their way. Here, then, a demand was made for a most
stringent tax, which could not be enforced at the time and
place of demand from anybody, without violating the Constitution, various acts of Congress, and a most important commercial
treaty.
It has also been urged on the court, with great earnestness,
that, as this tax'is levied for the support of alien paupers
and purposes of city police, and as the police power has not
been taken from the States, that the "1object "1 for 4rhich it
was imposed brings it within the State power. City police is
part of the State police, and on this assumption a poll-tax on
foreigners might be imposed to maintain almost the entire
municipal power throughout the State, embracing the administration of justice in criminal cases, as well as numerotii city
expenses, together with the support of the poor. The objects

448

SUPREME-COURT.
Passinger CGses.-Mr Justice Catrons Opinion.

arid assumptions might, indeed, be endless. Were this court
,once to Hold that aliens belonging to foreign commerce, and
.passengers coming from other. States, could have a poll-tax
levied on them on entering any port of a State, on the assump-tion that the tax should be applied to maintain State police
•powers, and by this means the State treasury could be filled,
the time is not distant when States holding the great inlets of
commerce might raise all necessary revenues from foreign intercourse, and from intercourse among the States, and thereby
exenpt'their own inhabitants from taxation altogether. The
money once being in the treasury, the State legislature might
apply it to. any and every purpose, at discretion, as New York
has done; and if more was needed, the capitation tax might be
increased'at discretion, the power to tax having no other limitation.
The .passengers in this instance were not subjects of any
police power. or sanatory regulation, but healthy persons of
good moral character, as we are bound to presume, nothing appearing to the contrary ; nor had the State of New York manifested by her legislation any objection to such persons entering
the State.
Again:, it was urged that the States had the absolute powcr
to exclude all aliens before the Constitution was formed, and
that this power renained unsurrendered and unimpaired; that
,it might be exercised in any form that the States saw proper to
adopt; and having the power to admit or reject at pleasure, the
States might, 'as a condition to admission, demand from all
aliens a-sum of money, and*if they refused to pay, the States
might keep them out, nor could.'Congress or a treaty interfere..
If such .power existed in the Slate of New York, it has not
been exerted in this instance. That it was intended ;o impose
a condition hostile to the admission of the passengers, in respect to whom the master was sued, is without the slightest
foundation. . They were.not hindered or interfered with in any
degree by the State law. It is a gei.era revenue measure, and
declares that the health-commissioner shall demand, and be
entitled to. -receive, and in case of neglect or refusal shall sue,
for and recaver, from the master of every vessel from a foreign
port, that shall arrive,in the port of New York, for himself and'
each cabin passenger, one dollar and fifty cents; and for each
steerage passenger, mate, ailor, or marine, one dollar; and
from the master of ceach coasting-vessel, for each person on
board, tventy-five cents.. No restraint is imposed on passengers, either of foreign, vessels or of coasting-vessels. In the one
case, as.in-the other, the merchants, traders, and visitors in the
cabin,-and the immigrants- in.the steerage, were equally free to

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

449

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

come into-the harbour, and equally welcome to enter the State.
She does not address herself to them at all, but demands a revenue duty from the master, making the presence of passengers
the pretext. We have to deal with the law as we find it, and'
not with an imaginary case that it might involve, but undoubtedly does not.
Por the reason just stated, I had not intended to examine
the *questionpresenting the State right claimed, but it has become so involved in the discussions at the bar and among the
judges, that silence cannot be consistently observed. The
assumption is, that a State may enforce a non-intercourse law
excluding all aliens, and having power to'do this, she may do
any act tending to that end, Ibut short of positive prohibition.
If the premises be true, the conclusion cannot be questioned.
The Constitution was a compromise between all the States
of conflicting rights among them. They conferred on one
government all national power, which it would be impossible
to make uniform' in a process of legislation by several distinct
and independent State governments; and in order that the
equality should be preserved as far as practicable and consistent
with justice, two branches of the national: legislature were created. In one, the Stktes are representedi equally, and in the
other, according to their respective populations. As part of the
treaty-making power, the States are equal. The action of the
general government by legislation or by treaty is the action
of the States and of their' inhabitants; these the Senate, the
House of Representatives, and. the President represent. This
is the federal power. In the exercise of its authority over
foreign commerce it is supreme. It may admit or it may refuse foreign intercourse, partially or entirely.
The Constitution is a practical instrument, made by practical men, and suited to the territory and circumstances on
which it was intended to operate. To comprehend its whole
scope, the mind must take in the entire country and its local
governments. There were at the time of its adoption thirteen
States. There existed a large territory beyond them already
ceded by Virginia, and other territory was soon expected, to be
ceded, by North Carolina and Georgia. New States were in
contemplation, far off from ports on the ocean, through which ports aliens must come to our vacant territories and new Statei,
and through these ports foreign commerce must of necessity be
carried on by our inland population. We had several thousand
miles of sea-coast ; we adjoined the British possessions on the
east and north for several 'thousand miles, and were divided
from them by lines on land to' a grekt extent; and on the west
and south we were bounded for three thousand miles.and more
38 *

450

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Catron's Opinion.

by the possessions of Spain. With neither of these governments was our intercourse by any means harmonious at thai
time.
Provision had to be made for foreign commerce coming
from Europe and other quarters, by navigation in pursuit of
profitable merchandisd and trade, and also to regulate personal
intercourse among aliens coming to our shores by navigation in
pursuit of trade and merchandise, as well as for the comfort and
proteition of visitors and travellers coming in by the ocean.
Then, again, on our inland borders, along our extensive lines
of separation from foreigi nations, trade was to be regulated;
but more especially was personal intercourse to be governed by
standing and general rules, binding the people of each nation
on either side of the line. This could only be done by treaty
of nation with nation. If the individual States had retained
national power; and each might have treated for itself; any one
might have broken its treaty and given cause of war, and involved, other States in the war; therefore all power to treat, or
have foreign intercourse, was surrendered by the States; and
so were.the .powers to -make war and to naturalize aliens given
up. These were vested in the general government for the
benefit of the whole. This became "the nation" known to
foreign governments, and was solely responsible to them for
the acts of all the States and their inhabitants.
The general government has the sole power by treaty to
regulate that foreign commerce which consists in navigation,
and in buying and selling. To carry on this commerce, .men
must enter the United States (whose territory is a unit to this
end) by the authority of the nation.; .and what may be done in
this respect will abundantly appear .by what has been done
from our first administration under the Constitution to the
present time, without opposition from State authority, and
without being questioned, except by a barren and inconsistent.
thdory, that admits exclusive power in the general government
to let in ships and -goods, but denies its authority to let in the
men who navigate the vessels, and those who come to sell the
goods. and purchase our productions in return.
Our first commercial treaty with Great Britain was that of
1794, made under the sanction of President Washington's administration. By the fourteenth article, already referred to, the
inhabitants of the king of Great Britain, coming from his Majesty's territories in Europe, had granted to them liberty, freely
and securely, and without hindrance or molestation, to come
"with their ships and cargoes to the lands, countries, cities,
ports, places, and rivers within our territories, to enter the
same, to resort there, to remain and reside there, wthout limi-

JANUARY TXRM, 1849.

451

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Catron!s Opinion.

tation of time; and reciprocal liberty was granted to the people
and inhabitants of the United States in his Majesty's European
territories; but subject always, as to what respects this article,
to the laws and statutes of the two countries respectively.
This stipulation was substantially renewed by the treaty of
1815, article first. In the Bfitish dominions our inhabitants
were to abide by the general laws of Great Britain, and in our
territories the subjects and inhabitants of that country were to
abide by the laws of the United States, and also by the laws
of any State where they might be. But the treaty does not
refer to laws of exclusion. The State laws could not drive out
those admitted by treaty without violating it, and furnishing
cause of war; nor could State laws interpose any hindrance or
molestation to the free liberty of coming. We have similar.
treaties with many tither nations of the earth, extending over
much of its surface, and covering populations more than equal
to one half of its inhabitants. Millions of people may thus
freely come and reside in our territories without limitation of
time, and after a residence of five- years, by taking the proper
steps, may be admitted to citizenship under our naturalization
laws. Thousands of such persons have been admitted, and we
are constantly admitting them now; and when they become
citizens they may go into every State without restraint, being
entitled "to all the privileges and immunities of citizens of the
several States."
And as respects intercourse across our line of separation from
the British possessions in America, it is agreed, by the th4
article of the treaty of 1794, "that it shall at all times be free
to his Majesty's subjects and to the citizens of the United
States, and also to the Indians dwelling on either side of said
boundary-line, freely to pass and repass, by land or inland navigation, into the respective territories and countries of the two
parties on the continent of America, (the country within the
limits of the Hudson's Bay Company only excepted,) and to
navigate all the lakes, rivers, and waters thereof; and freely to
carry on trade and commerce with each other." Tolls and rates
of ferriage are to be the same, on either side of the line, that
natives pay on that side.
Although this treaty was abrogated by the war of 1812, still
I understand that it was intended to be renewed, so far as it
regulated intercourse at our inland borders, by the second article
of the treaty of 1815.
Thus have stood fact and practice for half a century, in the
face of the theory, that individual States have the discretionary
power to exclude aliens, because the power was reserved to the
States, .is
exclusively in them, and remains unimpaired by the
Constitution.

452

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice McKinley's Opinion.
-

It is-also insisted that the States may tax all persons and
property within their respective jurisdictions, except in cases
where they are affirmatively prohibited. This is a truism not
open to denial. Certainly the States may tax their own inhabitants at discretion, unless they have'surrendered the power.
-But constitutional exceptions to the State power are so broad
as to render the claim valueless in the present instance. The
States cannot lay export duties; nor duties on imports, nor tonnage duties on vessels. If they tax the master and crew, they
indirectly lay a duty on the vessel. If the passengers on board
are taxed, the protected goods- the imports -are reached.
In short, -when the tax- in question was demandable by the
State law, and demanded, the ship rode in the harbour of New
York; with all persons and property on board, as a uni belonging to foreign conmerce. She stood as single as when
on the open ocean, and was as exempt from the State taxing
power.
For the reasons here given, I think the judgment of the State
court should be reversed because that part of the .State law on
which it is founded was void.
GRIER, J. I concur with this opinion of my brother Catron.
NOTE.

-I

here take occasion to say, that the State police

power was more relied on and debated in the cause of Norris v.
The City of Boston than in this cause. In that case I had
prepared an opinion, and was ready to &eiver it when I deliv.ered this opinion in open court. But being dissatisfied with its
composition, and agreeing entirely with my brother Grier on
all the principles involved in both causes, and especially on the
State power of exclusion in particular instances, I asked him to
write out our joint views in the cause cqming up from Massachtisetts. This he has done to my entire satisfaction, and
therefore I have said nothing here on the reserved powers of
the States' to protect'themselves, but refer to that opinion as
conthining my views on the subject, and with which I fully
concur throughout.
Mr. Justice McKINLEY.
NoRus v.

CITY OF BOSTON; AND

SMITH V.

TuP.NER.

I have examined the opinions of Mr. Justice McLean and
Mr. Justice Catron, and concur. in the whole reasoning upon
the main question, but wish to add, succinctly, my own views
upon a single provision of the Constitution.
The first clause of the ninth.section and first article of the

JANUARY TERM, 1849.
Passenger Cases.-

453

Mr. Justice M9Kinley's Opinion,

Constitution provides, that "the migration or importation of
such persons as any of the States now existing shall think
proper to admit shall not be prohibited by the Congress prior
to the year 1808; but a tax or duty may be imposed on such
importation, not-exceeding ten dollars for each person."'
On the last argument of this cause, no reference was made
to this clause of the Constituti6n ; nor have I ever heard a full
and satisfactory argument on the subject. Yet on a fall examination of this clause, connected with other provisions of
the Constitution, it has had a controlling influence on my
mind in the dtermination of the case before us. Some of my
brethren have insisted that the clause here quoted applies exclusively to the importation of slaves. If the phrasq, ' the
migration or importation of such persons," was intended by
the Convention, to mean slaves only, why, in the assertion of
the taxing power, did ihey, in the same clause, separate migration from importation, and use the following language: -- " But.
a tax or duty may be imposed on such importation, not exceeding ten dollars for each person"? All will admit, that, if the
word migration were excluded from the clause,.it would apply
to slaves only. An unsuccessful attempt was made in the
Convention to amend this clause by striking out the word migration,and thereby to make it apply to slaves exclusiyely.
In the face of this fact, the debates in the Convention, certain
numbers of the Federalist, together with Mr. Madison's report
to the legislature of Virginia in 1799,- eleven years after the
adoption of the Constitution, - are relied on to prove that the
words migration and importation are synonymes, within the
true intent and ineaning of this clause. - The acknowledged
accuracy of language and clearness of diction in the Constitution would seem to forbid the imputation of so gross an error
to the distinguished authors of that instrument.
I have been unable to find any thing in the debates of the
Convention, in the Federalist, or the report of Mr. Madison,
inconsistent with the construction here given. Were they,
however, directly opposed to it, they could not, by any known
rule of construction, control or modify the plain and unambiguous language of the clause in question. The conclusion, to my
mind, is therefore irresistible, that there are two separate and
distinct classes of persons intended to be provided for by this
clause.
Although they. are both subjects of commerce, the latter
class only is the subject of trade and importation. The slaves
are not immigrants, and had no exercise of volition in their
transportation from Africa to the United States.
. The owner was bound to enter them at the custom-house as

454

SUPREME-COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice McKinley's Opinion.

anj other article of commerce or importation, and to pay the
duty imposed by law, whilst the persons of the first class, although subjects of commerce, had the free exercise of volition,
and could remove at pleasure from one place to another; and
when they determined to migrate or remove from any European government to the United States, they voluntarily, dissolved
the bond of allegiance to their sovereign, with the intention to
contract a temporary or permanent allegiance to the government of the United States, and if transported in an American
ship, that allegiance commenced the moment they got on
board. They were subject to, and protected by, the laws of,
the United States, to the end of their voyage.
Having thus shown that there are two separate and distinct
classes included in, and provided for by, the clause of the Constitution reterred to, the question arises, how .far the persons
of the first class are protected, by the Constitution and laws of
the United States, from the operation of th6 statute of New
York now under consideration. The power was conferred on
Congress -to prohibit migration and importation of such persons
into all the new States, from and after the time of their admission into the Union, because: the exemption from the prohibition of Congress was confined exclusively to the Stateq then
existing, and left the power to operate upon all the new States
admitted into the Union prior to 1808. Four new States having been thus admitted within that time, it follows, beyond
controversy, that the power of Congress over the whole subject
of migration and importation was complete throughout the
United States after 1808.
The power to prohibit the admission of "all -such persons"
includes, necessarily, the power to admit them on such conditions as Congress may think proper to impose; and therefore,
as a condition, Congress has the unlimited power of taxing
them. If this reasoning be correct, the whole power over the
subject belongs exclusively to Congress, and connects itself indissolubly with the power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations. How far, then, are these immigrants protected, upon
their arrival in the United States, against the power of State
statutes? The ship, the cargo, the master, the crew, and the
passengers are all. under the protection of the laws of the
United States, to the final termination of the voyage; and the
passengers have*a right to be landed and go on shore, under the
protection and subject to these laws only, except so far as they
may be subject to the quarantine laws of the place where they
are landed; which laws are notdrawn in question in this controversy. The great question here is, Where does the power
of the United States over this subject end, and where does the

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

455

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Grier's Opinion.

State power begin? This is, perhaps, one of the most perplexing questions ever submitted to the consideration of this
court.
A similar question arose in the case of Brown v. The State
of Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, in which the court carried out
the power of Congress to regulate commerce with foreign nations, upon the subject then under consideration, to the line
which separates it from the reserved powers of the States, and
plainly established the power of the States over the same subject-matter beyond that line.
The clause of the Constitution already referred to m this
case, taken in connection with the provision which confers on
Congress the power to pass all laws necessary and proper for
carrying into effect the enumerated and all other powers granted by the Constitution, seems necessarily to include the whole
power over this subject; and the Constitution and laws of the
United States being the supreme law of the land, State power
cannot be extended over the same subject. It therefore follows, that passengers can never b6 subject to State laws until
they become a portion of the population of the State, temporarily or permanently; and this view of the Bubject seems to
be fully sustained by the case above referred to. Were it even
admitted that the State of New York had power to pass the
statute .under consideration, in the absence of legislation by
Congress on this subject, it would avail nothing in this case,.
because the whole ground had been occupied-by Congress before that act was passed, as has been fully shown by the preceding Qpinion of my brother Catron. The laws referred to in
that opinion show conclusively that the passengers, their moneys, their clothing, their baggage, their tools, their-implements,
&c., are permitted to land in the United States without tax,
duty, or impost.
I therefore concur in the opinion, that the judgment of the
court below should be reversed.
Mr. Justice Catron concurs in the foregoing opinion, and
adopts it as forming part of his own, so far as Mr. Justice
McKinley's individual views are expressed, when taken in connection with Mr. Justice Catron's opinion.
Mr. Justice GRIER.
NORRIs v.

CITY OF BOSTON.

As the law of Massachusetts which is the subject of consideration in this case differs in some respects from that of New
York, on which the court have just passed in the case of Smith
v. Turner, I propose briefly to notice it. In so doing, it is not

456

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-

Mr. Justice Grier's Opinion.

my purpose to repeat the arguments .urged in vindication of
the judgment of the court in that case, and which equally apply to this, but rather to state distinctly'what 'I consider the
point really presented by this case, and to examine some- of the
propositions assumed; and arguments urged with so )nuch ability by the learned counsel of the defendants.
The plaintiff in this case is an inhabitant of St. John's, in
the Province of New Brunswick and kingdom of Great Britain, He arrived at the port of Boston in June, 1837, in command of a schooner belonging to the port of St. John's, having
on board nineteen alien passengers. Prior to landing, he was
"compelled to pay to the city of Boston the sum of two dollars
each for permission to land said passengers. This sum of
thirty-eight dollars was paid under protest, and this suit instituted to recover it back.
.The demand was made, and the money .received from the
plaintiff, in pursuance of the following act of the legislature of
Massachusetts, passed on the 20th of April; 1837, and entitled,
"An act relating to alien passengers."
II 1. When any vessel shall arrive at any port or harbour
within this State, from any port or place without the, same,
with alien passengers on board, the officer or officers whom
the mayor and aldermen of -the city, or the selectmen of the
town, where it is proposed to'land such passengers, are hereby
authorized and'required t6 appoint, shall go on board such vessels and examine into the condition of such passengers
"§ 2. If, on such examination, there shall be found among
said passengers any'lunatic, idiot, maimed, aged, or infirm person, incompetent, in the opinion of the officer so examining,
to maintain themselves, or who have been paupers in any other
country, no such alien paigenger shall be permitted to land
until the master, owner, cqnsignee, or agent of such vessel
shall have given to such city or town a bond in the sum of
one thousand dollars, with good and sufficient surety, that no
such lunatic or indigent passenger shall become' a city, town,
or State charge within ten-years from the date of said bond.
"§ 3. No alien passengers, other than those spoken of in the
preceding section, shall be permitted to' land until the master,
owner, consignee, or agent of such vessel shall pay to the
regularly appointed boarding officer the sum -of two dollars for
each passenger so landing; and the money so collected shall
be paid into the treasury of 'the city or town, to be appropriated as the city or town may direct, for the support of foreign
paupers.
"t§ 4. The officer or officers required in the first section of
this act to be appointed by the mayor and aldermen, or the select-

JANUARY -TERM, 1849.

457

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Grier's Opinion.

men, respectively, shall, from time to time, notify the .piots of
the port of said city or town of the place or places where the said
examination is t6 be made, and -the said pilots shall be required
to anchor all such vessels at the place so appointed, and require
said vessels there to remain -till such examination shall be
made; and any pilot who shall refuse or neglect to perform
the duty imposed upon Jim by this section, or who shall,
through negligence or design, permit any alien passenger to
land before such examination shall be had, shall forfeit-to the
city or town .a sum not less than ffty nor more than two
thousand dollars.
"1 5. The provisions'-of this act shall not apply to any
vessel coming on shore in distress, or to any alien passengers
taken.from any wreck where life is in danger."
It must be bome in mind (what hag been sometimes fotgotten), that the controversy in this case is not with regald to the
right claimed by the State of Massachusetts,. in the second section of this act, to repel from her shores lunatics, idiots, criminals, or paupers,. which any foreign country, or even one of her
sister States, might endeavour to thrust upon her; nor the right
of any State, whose domestic secarity might be endadigered by
.the admission of free negroes, to exclude them from her borders. This right of the States has its foundation in the sacred
law of self-defence, which no power granted to Congress can
restrain or annul. It is admitted by all, that those powers
which relate to merely municipal legislation, or what may be
more properly -called internal police, are not surrendered or restrained; and that it is as competent and necessary for a State
to provide precautionary measures against the moral pestilence
of paupers, vagabonds, and convicts, as it is to guard against
the physical pestilence which may arise from unsound and infectious articles imported. The case' of New York v. Miln
asserts this doctrine, and no more. The law under consideration in that case did not interfere with passengers as such,
either directly or indirectly, who were not paupers. It.put
forth no claim to tax all persons for leave to land and pass
through the State to other States, or .a right to regulate the
intercourse of foreign nations with the United States, or to
control the policy of the general government with regard to
immigrants.
But what is the claim set up in the third section of the act
under consideration, with which alone we have now to deal?
It is not the exaction of a -fee or toll from passengers for
some personal service rendered to them, nor from the master
of the vessel for some inspection or other service rendered.
either to the vessel or its cargo. It is not a fee or tax for.a
VOL. Vii.
39

458

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Grier's Opinion.

license to foreigners to become denizens or ditizens of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts; for they have - sought no
such privilege, and, so far as is yet known, may have been on
their way to some other place.
,It is not an exercise of the police power with regard 'to paupers, idiots, or convicts. The second section effectually guards
agaiust injury from. them. It is only after the passenger has
been found, on inspection, not to be within the description
whose crimes or poverty require exclusion, that the master of
the vessel is taxed for -leave to land him. Had this act commenced with the.third section, might it not have been truly
entitled, "An act to raise revenue off vessels engaged in the
transportation -of passengers ') ? Its true character cannot be
changed by. its collocation. nor can it be termed a police regulation because it is in the same act which contains police
regulations.
In its letter and its spirit it is. an exaction from the master,
bwner, or consignee of a vessel engaged in the transportation
of passengers, graduated on 'the freight or. passagelmoney
earned by the vessel. It is, in fact, a duty on the vessel, not
measured b3y her tonnage, it is true, but pioducing a like result,
by merely changing the ratio. It is a taxatiQn of the master,.
as representative of the vessel and her cargo.
It has been argued that this is not a tax on the master or the
vessel, because in effect it is paid by the passenger having enhanced the price of his passage. Let us test the value of this
argument by its- application to other 'cases that naturally siiggest themselves. If this act had, in direbt terms, compelled
the master to pay a tax- or duty levied or graduated on the
ratio of the tonnage of his vessel, whose freight was earned by
the transportation of passengers, it might have been said, with
equal truth, that the duty was paid by the passenger, and not
.by the vessel. And so, if it had .laid an impost on the goods
of the passenger imported by the vessel, it might have been
said, with equal reason, it .was only a tax on the passenger at
last, as it comes out of his pocket, and, graduating it by the
amount of his goods, affects only the modus or ratio b whichIn this' way, the most stringent
its amount is calculated.
enactments may be easily evaded.
It is a just aid well-settled doctrine established by this court,
that.a State cannot do that indirectly which she is forbidden
by the Constitution to do directly. If she cannot levy a duty
or tax from the master or owner of a vessel engaged in commerce 'graduated on the tonnage or admeasurement of the vessel, she cannot effect the same purpose by merely changing the
ratio, and graduating it on the number of masts, or of ihariners,

JANUARY.TERM,

1849.

459

Passenger. Cases.-Mkfr. Justice Grier's Opinion.

the size and power of the steam-engine, or the number of passengers which she carries. We have to deal with things, and
we cannot change them by changing their names. Can a
State levy a duty on vessels engaged in commerce, and not
owned by her own citizens, by changing its name from a
"duty on tonnage" to a tax on the master, or an impost upon
imports, by calling it a charge on the owner or supercargo,
and justify this evasion of a great principle by producing a dictionary or a dictum to -prove that a ship-captain is not a vessel,
nor a supercargo an import?
The Constitution of the United States, and the*powers confided by it to the general government, to be exercised for the
benefit of all the States, ought not to be nullified or evaded by
astute verbal criticism, without regard to the grand aim and object of the instrument, and the principles on which it is based.
A constitution must necessarily be an instrument 'which enumerates, rather than defines, the powers granted by it. ,While
we are notadvocates for a latitudinous construction, yet "we
know of no rule for construing the extent of such powers
other than is given by the language of the instrument which
confers them, taken in connection with the purpose for which
they are conferred."
Before proceeding to examine the more prominent and plausible arguments which have been urged in support of the power
now claimed by the State of Massachusetts, it may be proper
to notice some assumptions of fact which have been used for
the purpose of showing the necessity of such a power, from the
hardships which it is supposed would, otherwise be inflicted on
those States which claim -the right to exercise it.
. It was assumed as ' fact, that all the foreigners who arrived
at the ports of Boston and New York, and afterwards became
paupers, remained in those cities, and there became a public
charge; and that, therefore, this tax was for their own benefit,
or that of their class. But is this the fact?* Of the many ten
thousands who yearly arrive at those ports, how small a proportion select their residence there! Hundreds are almost daily
transferred from the vessels in which they arrive to the railroadcar an4, steamboat, and proceed immediately on their journey
to the Western States. Are Boston, New York, and New Orleans, through which they are compelled to pass, the only cities
of the Union.which have to bea'r the burden of supporting such
immigrants as afterwards become chargeable as paupers? It
may well be questioned whether their proportion of this burden exceeds the ratio f their great wealth. and population.
But it appears by the second section of the act now before us,
that all persons whdse poverty; age, or infirmities render them

460

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Grier's Opinion.

incompetent to maintain themselves are not pernlitted to land
until a bond has been given, in the sum'of one thousand dollars,
with sufficient security, that they will not become a cityj town,
or State charge within ten years. By the stringency of these
bonds, the poor, the aged, and the infirm are compelled to continue their journey and migrate to other'States; aid yet, after
having thus driven off all persons of this class, and obtained an indemnity against loss by them if they remain, it is complainid of as a hardship, that the State should not be allowed
to tax those .who, on examinatibn, are found not to be within
this description, - who are not paupers, nor likely to become
such; and that this exaction should be demanded, not for a
license to remain and become domiciled in the State, but for.
leave to pass through it. -But admitting the hardship ot not.
permitting these States to raise revenue by'tixing 'the citizens
of other States, or -immigrants seeking to become such, the
answer still remains, that the question before the court is not
one of feeling or discretion, but of power.
The arguments in support of this power in a State to tax
vessels employed in the transportation of passengers assume, 1st. That it is a tax-upon passengers or persons, and not up6n
vessels. 2d. That the States are sovereign, and 1that "the
sovereign may forbid the entry of his territory either to foreigners in general or in particular cases, orfor certain purposes,
according as he may think it advantageous to the State; and
since the lord of the territory may, whenever he thinks proper,
forbid its being entered, he has power to annex what conditions
he pleases to the permission to enter"; that the State of Massachusetts, having this power to exclude altogether, may therefore impose as a condition for a license to pass through her territory any amount of tax she may see fit; and this is but the
exercise of the police power reserved to the States, and which
cannqt be controlled by the government of the Union. 3d.
That it is but an exercise of the municipal power which every
State has, to tax persons and things within her jurisdiction, and
with which other States have no concern.
Let us assume, for the. sake of argument, that this is not a
duty on the vessel, nor an interference with commercial regulations made by Congress, but a tax on persons transported in
the vessel, and carry out the propositions based on this hypothesis to their legitimate results.
It must be admitted that it is not an exercise of the usual
power to tax persons resident within a State, and their property ; but is a tax on passengers qua passengers. It is a condition annexed to a license to them to pass through the State, on
their journey to other States. It is founded on a claim by a

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

461

Passenger Casts.-Mr. Justice Grier's Opinion.

State of the power to exclude all persons from entering het
ports or passing through her territory.
It is true, that, if a State has such an absolute and uncontrolled right to exclude, the inference that she may prescribe
the conditions of entrance, in the shape of a license or a tax,
must necessarily follow. The' conclusion cannot be evaded if
the premises be proved. A right to exclude is a power to tax;
and the converse of the pr6position is also true, that a power to
tax is a power to exclude ; and it follows, as a necessary result,
from this doctrine, that those States in which are situated the
great ports or gates of commerce have a right t6 exclude, if
they see fit, all immigrants from access to the interior States;.
and to prescribe the conditions on which they shall be allowed
to proceed on their journey, whether it be the payment of two
or of two hundred dollars. Twelve States of this Union are
without a seaport. The United States have, within and beyond the limits of these States, many.millions of acres of vacant lands. It is the cherished policy of the g~neral government to encourage and invite Christian foreigners of our own
race to seek an asylum within our borders, and to convert these
waste lands into productive farms, and thus add to the wealth,.
population, and pdwer of the nation. Is it possible that the
framers of our Constitution have' committed such an oversight,
as to leave it to the discretion of some two or three States to
thwart the policy of the Union, and dictate the terms upon
which foreigners shall be permitted to gain access to the other
States? Moreover, if persons migrating to the Western States*
may be compelled to contribute to the revenue of Massachusetts, or New York, or Louisiana, whether for the support of
paupers or penitentiaries, they may with equal justice be subjected to the same exactions in every other city or State through
which they are compelled to pass; and thus the unfortunate
immigrant, before he arrives at his deistined home, be made a
pauper by oppr-ssive. duties on his transit. Besides, if a State
may exercise this right of taxation or exclusion on a foreigner,
on the pretext that he may become a pauper, the same doctrine will apply to citizens of other States of this Union;
and thus the citizens of the interior States, who have no
ports on the ocean, may be made tributary to those who hold
the gates of exit and entrance to commerce. If' the bays
and harbours in the United States are so exclusively the
property of the States within whose boundaries they lie, that,"
the'moment a ship comes within them, she and all her passengers become the subjects of unlimited taxation before they
can- be permitted to touch the shore, the assertion, that this
is a question-with which the citizens of other States have no.
39*

462

SUPREMTE COURT.
Passenger Cases.

-M

r. Justice Grier's Opinion.

concern, may well be doubted. If these States- still; retain
'all the rights of sovereignty, as this argument assumes, one of
the chief objects for which this Union was formed has totally
failed, and "we may again witness ihe sdene of conflicting commercial regulations and exactions which were once so destructive to the harmony of the States, and fatal to their commercial
interests abroad."
To guard against the recurrence of these evils, the Constitution hias conferred on Congress the power to regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and among the States. . That; as regards
our intercourse with other nations and with one another, we
Might be one "people, -not a mere confederacy of sovereign
States for-the purposes of defence or aggression.
Commerce, as defined by this court, means something more
than traffic, -

it is intercourse; and the power committed to

Congress to regulate commerce is exercised by prescribing rules
for carrying on that intercourse: "But in regulating -commerce
with foreign nations, the power of Congress does not stop at
the jurisdictional lines of the 'several States. It would be a
very useless po.wer if it could not pass those lines. The commerce of the United States with foreign nations is that of the
whole United States. Every district has a right to participate
in it. The deep streims which penetrate our country-in every
direction pass through the interior of almost every State in the
Union, and furnish the means for exercising this right. If
Congress has the power to regulate it, that power must be exercised wherever -the subject exists. If it exists -.within the
States, if a foreign voyage may commence or terminate at a
port within a State, then the power of Congress may be exercised within a State." (Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 195.)
The. question, whether this piower is exclusive, is one on
which the-majority of this court have'intimated different opinions at different times; but it is one of little practical importance in the present case, for this power has not lain dormant,
like those for'enacting a uniform* bankrupt law, and for organizing the militia. The United Statds have made treaties, and
have regulated our.intercourse with foreign nations by prescribing sits conditions. No single State has, therefore, a right to
change them. To what pfrpose commit to Congress the power
of regulating our intercourse with foreign nations and among
the States, if these regulations may be changed at the discretion of each State? And to what weight is that argument entitled which'assumes, that, because it is the policy of Congress
to leaveP this intercourse free, therefore it has not been regulated, and each State may put as many restrictions upon it as
-she pleases.?

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

463

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Grier's Opinion.

The argument of those who challenge the ri'ght to exercise
this power for the States of Massachusetts and New York, on
the ground that it is a necessary appurtenant to the police
power, seems fallacious, also, in this respect. It assumes, that,
because a State, in the exercise of her acknowledged right,
may exclude paupers, lunatics, &c., therefore she may exclude
all persons, 'whether they come within this category or not.
But she may exclude putrid and pestilential goods from being
landed on her shores; yet it does not follbw that she may prescribe what sound. gooids may be landed, or prohibit their im-,
portation' altogether. The powers used for self-defence and
protection against harm cannot be perverted into weapons of
offence and aggression upon the rights of others. A State is
left free to impose such taxes as she pleases-upon those who
have elected to become residents or citizens; but it is not necessary to her safety or welfare ehat. she should exact a transit
duty on persons or property for permission to pass to other
States.
It has been argued, also, that, as the jurisdiction of the State
extends over the bays and harbours within her boundaries for
the purpose of punishing crimes committed thereon, ther'fore her jurisdiction is absolute for every purpose to the same
extent ; and that, as she may tax persons resident on land and
their ships engaged in commerce, she has an equal right to tax
the- persons or property of foreigners or citizens of other States,
the moment their vessels arrive within her jurisdictional limits.
But this argument is obnoxious to the imputation of proving
too much,. and therefore not to be relied on as proving any
thing. For if a State has an absolute right to tax vessels and
persons coming from foreign ports, or those of other States,
before they reach the shore; and as a conditioni for license to
land in her ports, she may tax to any amount, and neither Congress nor this court can restrain her in the exercise of that
right; it follows,.also, as a necessary tonsequence, that she may
exclude all vessels but her own from. entering her .ports, and
may grant monopolies of the navigation of her bays and rivers.
This the State of New York at one time attempted, but was
restrained by the decision of this court in the case of Gibbons
v. Ogden.
In conclusion, we- are of' opinion, 1st. That the object of.the constitutional prohibition to the
States to lay duties on tonnage and imptsts on imports was to
protect both vessel and cargo from State. taxation while in
transiti ; and this prohibition cannot be evaded, and the same
result effected, by calling it a tax on the master or passengers.
2d. That the power exercised in these cases to prohibit the

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

immigration of foreigners to other States, except on prescribed
conditions, and to tax the commerce or intercourse between
the citizens of these States, is not a police power, nor necessary
for the preservation of the health, the morals, or the domestic
peace of the States who claim to exercise it.
3d. That the power to tax this intercourse necessarily challenges the right to exclude it altogether, and thus to thwart the
policy of the other States and the Union.
. 4th. That Congress has regulated commerce and intercourse
with foreign nations and between the several States, by willing
that it shall he free, and it is therefore not left to the discretion
of each State in the Union either to refuse a right of passage
to persons or property through her territory, or to exact a duty.
for permission to exercise it.
CATRON, J. I concur with the foregoing opinion of Mr.'
Justice Grier.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, dissenting.
Crr or BosToN, .AN SMITH V. TuRNER.
I do not concur in the judgment of the court in these two
cases, and proceed to state the grounds on which I dissent.
The constituti6nality of the laws of- Massachusetts and New
York in some respects -depends upon the same principles.
There are, however, different questions in the two cases, and I
shall make myself better understood by examining separately
one of the cases, and then pointing out how far the same reasoning applies to the other, and in.what respect there is a difference between them; and, first, as 'to the case from Massachusetts.
This law meets the vessel after she has arrived in the- harbour, and within the territorial limits of the State, but before
the passengers have landed, and while, they are still afloat on
navigable water. It requires the State officer to go on board
and examine into the condition of the passengers, and provides
that, if any lunatic, idiot, maimed, aged, or infirm person, mcompetent, in the opinion of the examining 'officer, to maintain
themselves, or wh6 have been paupers in any other country,
shall be found on board, -uch alien passenger shall not be permitted to land, until the master, owner, consignee, or agent of
the vessel shall give. bond, with sufficient security, that no such.
lunatic or indigent person shall become a city, town, or State
charge within ten years from the" date of .the bond. These
provisions are contained in the. first two sections. It is the
third section that has given rise to this 'controversy, and which
NoRris v.

JANUARY TERM, 184"9.

465

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

enacts that no alien passengers other than those before spoken
of shall be permitted to land until the master, owner, consignee, or agent of the vessel shall pay to the boarding officer
the sum of two dollars for each passenger so landing; the
money.thus collected to be appropriated to the support of foreign paupers.
This law is a part of the pauper laws of the State, and the
provision in question is intended to create a fund for the support of alien paupers, and to prevent its own citizens from being burdened with their support.
I do not deem it material at this 'time to inquire whether the
sum demanded is a tax or not. Of that question I shall speak
hereafter. The character of the transaction and the. meaning
of the law cannot be misunderstood. If the alien chooses to remain on board, and to depart with the ship, or in any other vessel, the captain is not required to pay the money. Its payment
id the condition upon which the State permits the alien passenger to come on shore and mingle with its citizens, and to reside among them. ,He obtains this privilege from the State by
the payment of the -money. It is demanded of the captain, and
not from every separate passenger, for the convenience of collection. But the burden evidently falls on the passenger; and
he -in fact pays it, either in the enhanced price of his passage,
or directly to the captain, before he is allow0ed to embark for
the voyage. The nature of the transaction and the ordinary
course of business show that this must be the case; and the
present claim, therefore, comes before the court without any
equitable considerations to recommend it, and does not call
upon us to restore money to a party from whom it has been
wrongfully exacted. If the plaintiff recovers, he wilt- -'ost
probably obtain from the State the money which he has
doubtless already received from the passenger, for the purpose of being paid to the State; and which, if the State is not
enitled to it, ought to be refunded to the passenger. The writ
of error, however, brings up nothing for revision here but the
constitutionality of the law- under which this money was- demanded and paid, and that question I proceed toexamine.
And the first inquiry is, whether, under the Constitution of
the United- States, the federal gov&rnment has the power to
compel the several States to receive, and suffer to remain in association with its citizens, every person or class of personi whom
it may be the'policy or pleasure of the United States to admit.
In my.judgment, this question lies at the foundation of the
controversy in this case. I do not mean to say that the general
government have, by treaty or act of Congress, required the
State of Massachusetts to permit the- aliens in question to land.

466 '

SUPREME COURT.

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

-

I think there is no treaty or act of Congress which can justly
be so construed. But it is not necessary to examine that question until we have first inquired whether Congress can lawfully
exercise such a power, and whether the States are bound to
submit to it. For if the people of the several States of this
Union reserved to themselves the power of expelling from their
borders- any person, or class of persons, whom it might' deem
dangerous to its peace, or likely to produce a physical or moral
evil among its citizens, then any treaty or law of Congress invading this right, and authorizing the introduction of any person or description of persons against the consent of the State,
would be an usurpation of power which this court could neither recbgnize nor enforce.
I had supposed this question not now open to dispute. It
was distinctly decided in Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Pet. 540; in
Groves v. Slaughter, 15 Pet. 449; and in Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539.
If these cases are to stand, the right of the State is undoubted. And it is equally clear, that, if it may remove from among
its citizens .any person or description of persons whom it regards as injurious to their welfare, it follows that it- may meet
them- at the threshold and prevent them from entering. For it
will hardly be said that the United States may permit them to
enter, and compel thd State to receive them, and that the State
may immediately afterwards expel them. There could be no
reason ,of policy or humanity for compelling the States, by the
power of Congress, to imbibe the poison, and then leaving them
to find a remedy for it by their own exertions and at their own
expense. Certainly no such distinction can be found in the
Constitution, and such a division of power would be an inconsistency, not to say an absurdity, for which I presume no one
will contend. , If the State has the yower to determine whether the persons objected to shall remain in the State in associaiion with its citizens, it must, as an incident inseparably connected with it, have the right also to determiie who' shall
enter. Indeed, in the case of Groves v. Slaughter, the Mississippi constitution prohibited the entry of the objectionable persons, and the opinions of the court throughout treat the exercise of this power as being the same with that of expelling
them after they have entered.
Neither can this be a concurrent power, and whether it belongs to the general or to the State government, the sovereignty
which possesses the right must in its exercise be altogether independent of the other. If the United States have the power,
then any legislation by the State in conflict with a treaty or
act of Congress would be void. Ani -if the States possess it,

JANUARY TERM, f849.

467

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

then any act on the subject by the general government, in conflict with the State law, would also be void, and this court
bound to disregard it. It must be paramount and absolute in
the sovereignty which possesses it. A concurrent and equal
power in the United States and the States as to who should
and who should- not be permitted to reside in a State, would
be a direct conflict of powers repugnant to each other, continually thwarting and defeating its exercise by either, and -could
result in nothing but disorder and confusion.
Again: if the State has the right to exclude from its borders
any person or persons whom it may regard as dangerous to the
safety of its citizens, it must necessarily have the right to decide when and towards whom this power is to be exercised.
It is in its nature a discretionary power, to be exercised according to the judgment of the party which possesses it. And it
must, therefore, rest with the State to determine wlhether any
particular class or description of persons are likely to produce
discontents or insurrection in its territ6ry, or to taint the morals
of its citizens, or to bring among them contagious diseases, or
the evils and burdens of a numerous pauper population. For
if the general government can in any respect, or by any form
of legislation, control or re '.ain a State in the exercise of this
It has been exercised with proper
power, or decide wheth
discretion, and towards proper persons, and on proper occasions,
then the real and substantial power would be in Congress, and
not in the States. In the cases decided in this court, and herein before referred to, the power of determining who is or is
not dangerous to the interests and well-being of the people of
the State has been uniformly admitted to reside in the State. I think it, therefore, to be very clear, both upon principle and
the authority of adjudged cases, that the several States have a
right to remove from among their people, and to prevent from
entering the State, any person, or class or description of persons,
whom it may deem dangerous or injurious to the interests and
welfare of its citizens; and that the State has the exclusive
right to determine, in its sound discretion, whether the danger
does or does not exist, free from the control of the general government.
This brings me to speak more particularly of the Massachusetts law, now under consideration. It seems that Massachusetts deems the introduction of aliens into the State from
foreign countries likely *to produce in the State a numerous
pauper population; heavily and injuriously burdensome to its
citizens. It.would be easy to show, from the public history of
the times, that the apprehensions of the State are well founded;
that a fearful amount of disease and pauperism is daily brought

468

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.--Mr. Chief Justi'ce Taney's Opinion.

to our shores in emigrant ships, and that measures of precaution and self-defence have become absolutely necessary on the
Atlantic border. But whether this law was necessary: or not
is not a question for this court; and I forbear, therefore, to discuss its justice and necessity. This court has no power to
inquire whether a State has acted wisely or justly in ihe-exercise of its reserved powers. Massachusetts had the sole and
exclusive right to judge for herself whether any evyil.was to be
apprehended "from the introduction of alien passengers fromforeign countries. And in the exercise of -her disqretion, she
had a right to exclude them if she thought proper to do so.
Of course I do not speak of public functionaries or agents, or
officers of foreign governments. Undoubtedly no State has a
right to interfere with the free ingress of persons' of that description.. But there does not appear to'have been any such
among the aliens who are the subjects of this suit, and no
question, 'therefore, can arise on that score.
Massachusetts, then, having the right to refuse permission to
alien passengers' from foreign countries to land upon her territory, and the right to reject them as a class or description of
persons who may prove injurious to her interests, was slie
bound to admit or reject them without reserve? Was she
bound either to repel them altogether, or to admit them abso-lately and unconditionally? And might she not admit them
upon such securities'and conditions as she supposed would protect the interest of her own citizens, while it enabled the State
to extend the offices of humanity and kindness to the sick and
helpless stranger? There is certainly no provision in the Constitution which testrains the power of the State in this respect.
And if she may reject altogether, it follows that she may admit
upon such terms and conditions as she thinks proper, and it
.cannot be material whether the security required be a bond to
indemnify or the payment of a certain sum of money.
In a case where a party hs a discretionary power to -forbid
or permit an act to be done, as he shall think best for his own.
interests, he is nbver bound absolutely and unconditionally
to forbid or permit it. He may always permit it upon such
terms'Rnd conditions as he supposes will make the act compatible with his own interests. I know no -exception to the rule.
An individual mayforbid another from digging.a ditch through
his land to draw off water from the property. of the party who
desires the permission. Yet he may allow him to do it upon
such conditions and terms as, in his judgment, are sufficient to
protect his own property from 'overflow; and for. this purpose
he may either take a bond a'nd security, or he may accept a
sum of money in lieu of it,' and take upon himself the obliga-

JANUARY 'TERM, 1849.

469

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

tion of guarding against the danger. The same rule must
apply to governments who are charged with,'the, duty of protecting their citizens. Massachusetts has legislated .upon this
principle. She requires bond- and security from one class of
aliens, and from another, whom she deems less likely to become
chargeable, she accepts a sum of money, and takes upon herself the obligation of providing a remedy for the apprehended
evil.
I do not understand that the lawfulness of the provision for
taking bond, where the emigrants are actual paupers and un.able to gain a livelihood, has Been controverted. That question, it is true, is not before us in this case; but the right of
the State to protect itself against the burden of supporting
those who come to us from European almshouses seems to be
conceded in the argament. Yet 'there is no provision in theConstitution of the United States which makes any distinction
between different descriptions of aliens, or which reserves the
power to the.State as to orie class and denies it over the other.
And if no such distinction is to b~e found in the Constitution,
this court cannot engraft one upon it. 'The power of the State
as to these two classes of aliens must be regarded here as standing upon the same principles. It is in its nature and essence a
discretionary power, and if it resides in the Stater as to the poor
and the diseased, it mu'st also reside in it as to all.
In both cases the power depends upon the same principles,
and the same construction of the Constitution of the United
States; it results from the discretionary power which resides.
in a State to determine from what person or description of persons the danger of pauperism is to be apprehended, and to provide the necessary safeguards against it. Most evidently this
court cannot supervise the exercise of such a power by the
State, nor control or regulate it, -nor determin 'whether the occasion called for it, nor whether the funds raised have been properly administered. This would be substituting the discretion
of the court for.the discretionary power regerved to 'the State.
Moreover, if this court should undertake to exercise this.
supervispry power, it would take upon itself a duty which it is
utterly incapable bf discharging. For how could this court
ascertain whether the persons classed by the boarding officer
of the State as paupers belonged to that denomination or not?
How could it ascertain what had been the pursuits, habits, and
mode of life of every emigrant, and how- far he was liable to
lose his health, and become, with a helpless famij.y, a chargeupon the citizeris of the State? -How could it determine who
was sick and who was well ?>who was rich 'and who was poor ?
who was likely to become chargeable and who not? . Yet .all
VOL. VII.
40

470

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

th~s iust be done, add must be decided. too upon legal evidence, admissible in a court of justice, if it is determined that
the State may provide against the admission of one description
of aliens, but not against another; that it may take securities
against paupers-and persons diseased,-but not against those who
are in health or have the means of support ; and that this court
have the power to supervise the conduct of the State authorities, and to regulate it and determine whether it has been properly exercised or not.
I can, therefore, see no ground for the exercise of this -power
by the government of the United States or any of its tribunals.
In my opinion, the clear, established, and safe rule is, that it is
reserved to the several States, to be exercised by themn according to their own sound discretion, and according to their own
views of what their interest and safety require. It is a power
of self-preservation, and was never intended to be gurrendered.
But it is argued in support of the claim of the plaintiff, that
the conveyance of passengers from foreign countries is a branch
of commerce, and that"the provisions of the Massachusetts law,
which meet the ship on navigable water and detain her until
the bond is given and the money-paid, are a regulation of conimerce ; and that the grant to Congress of the -power to regulate
commerce is of itself a prohibition to the States to make any.
regulation upon the subject. The construction of this article
of the Constitution was fully discussed in the opinions delivered in the License Cases, reported in 5 Howard. I dQ not propose to repeat here what I then said, or what was said by other
members of the court with whom I agreed. -It will appear by
tl~e,report of the case, that five of t-he justices of this court,
being a majority of the whole bench, held that the- grant of the
power to, Congress was not a prohibition -to-the States'Eo make
such regulations as they deemed-necessary, in their own ports
and harbours, for the convenience of. trade or the, security of.
health; and that such regulations were valid, unless they came
in conflict with an act of Congress. After such opinions, judicially delivered, I had supposed that questioi to be settled, so
fa as'any question upon the construction" of the Constitution
ought to be regarded as closed by the decision of this court. I
do not, however, object to the revision of it, and am quite
willing, that if be regarded hereafter as the law 6f this court,
that its opinion upon the construction of 'the Constitution is
always open to discussion .when it is supposed to have, been
founded. in error, and that its judicial authority should hereafter depend altogether on the force of the reasoning by which
it is supported. Referring to'my opinion on that occasion, and
the reasoning. by which it is maintained, as showing what I

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

471

Passenger Cases.-Mr. ClIef Justice Taney's Qpinion...

still think upon the subject, I desire now to add to it a reference to the thirty-second number of the Federalist, which
shows that the construction given to this clause of the Constitution by a majority of the justices of this court is the same
that was given to it at the time of its adoption by the eninent
men of the day who were concerned in framing it, and active
in supporting it. For in that number it is explicitly affirmed,
that, "notwithstanding the affirmative grants of general authorities, there has been the most pointed care in those cases where
it was de6med improper that the like- authorities should reside
in the States, to insert negative clauses prohibiting the exercise
of them by the States." The grant of a general authority to
regulate commerce is not, therefore, a prohibition to the States
to make any regulations concerning it within their own. territorial limits, not in conflict with the reglations of Congress. But I pass from this objection, which was sufficiently discussed in the License Cases, and come to the next objection
founded on the same clause. It is this: that the law in question is a regulation of commerce, and is in conflict with the
regulations of Congress. and with treaties, and must yield to
the paramount authority over thiis subject-granted to the'United
States.
It is a sufficient answer to this argument-. to say, that no
treaty or act of Coligress has been produced which gives, or attempts to give, to all aliens the right to land in q State. The
act of March 2, 1799, ch. 23,. § 46, has been referred to, and
much pressed in the 'rgument. But this law obviously does
nothing more than exempt certain articles belonging to a passenger from the duties which the United States had a right to
exact, if they thought proper. Undoubtedly the law presupposes that the passenger will be permitted to land. But it does
Aot attempt to confer on him the right.. Indeed, the construction contended for-would be a startling one to the States, if
Congress has the power now claimed for it. For neither this
nor any other law of Congress prescribes the character or condition of the persons who may be taken on board in a foreign
port to be brought to the United States. It makes no regulations upon the subject, and leaves the selection altogether to
thp discretion and pleasure of the ship-owner or ship-master.
Tlie ship-owner, as well as the ship-master, is in many cases a
foreigner, acting sometimes, perhaps, under the influence of
foreign governments or foreign cities, and having no common
interest or sympathy with the people of the United States; and
he may be far more disposed to bring away the worst and
most dangerous portion of the population rather than the moral
and industrious citizen. And as the act of 1799 speaks of pas-

472

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice'Taney's Opinion.

sengers generally, and makes no distinction as to their character
or health, if the argument of the counsel for the plaintiff can
be mintained, and this law gives every passenger which the
ship-owner has selectedand brought with him the right to land,
then this act of Congress has not only taken away from the
States the right to determine who is and who is not fit to be
received among them, but has delegated this high and delicate
power to foreign ship-masters and foreign ship-owners. And
if they have taken on board tenants of their almshouses or
workhouses, or felons from their jails, if Congress has the power contended for, ind this act of Congress will bear the construction given to it, and gives to every passenger the right to
land, then this mass of, pauperism and vice may be poured out
upon the shores of a State in opposition to its laws, and the
State -authorities are not liermitted to resist 6r prevent it.
SIt is impossible, upon any sound principle of construction, so
to interpret this law of Congress. Its 'language will not justify
it, nor can such be supposed to have been: the policy of the
United States, or such its disposition towards the States. The
general government merely intended to exercise its powers' in
exempting the articles mentiqned from duties, leaving it to the
States to determine whether it was compatible with their interest and safety to permit the person to land. And, this power
the States have always exercised before and since the passage
of this act of Congress.
The same answer may be given to the argument on treaty
stipulations. The treaty of 1794, article 4,referred to and- re-,
lied on is no longer in force. But the same provision is, however, substantially contained in the first article of the convention with Great Britain of July 3, 1815, with this exception,
that it puts British subjects in this respect on the same footiig
with other foreigners. But the permission there mutually givqn, to-reside and hire houises and warehouses, and to trade and
traffic, is in express terms made subject to the laws of the two
countries respectively. 'Now, the privileges here given within
the several- States are all regulated by State laws, and tbe reference to the laws of this country necessarily applies to t;iem,
and subjects the foreigner to their decision and control. Indeed, the treaty may-be said to disavow the construction now
attempted to be given to it. Nor do I see how any argument
against the validity of the State law can be drawn from the
a C
of
gress-of 1819. On. the contrary, this act seems accurately to mark the line of division between the powers of the
general and State governments over this subject; and the powers of the former have been exercised in the passage of this law
without encroaching on the riglfs of the liatter. It regulates

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

473

Passenger Cases. -Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

the number of passengers which may be taken on board, and
brought to this country from foreign ports, in proportion to the
tonnage of the vessel, and directs that, at the time of making
his entry at the custom-house, the captain shall deliver to the
collector a list of the passengers taken on board at any foreign
port or place, stating their age, sex, and occupation, and whether they intend to become inhabitants of this country, and how
many have died on the voyage; and this list is to be returned
quarterly to the State Department, to. be laid before Congress.
But the law makes no -provision for their landing, nor does itrequire any inspection as to their health or condition. These
matters are evidently intended to be left to the State government, when the voyage has ended, by the proper custom-house
entry. For it cannot be supposed that, if the legislature of the
United States intended by this law to give the passengers a
right to land, it would have been so regardless of.the lives, and
health, and interests of our own citizens as to make no inquiry
and no examination upon a subject which so nearly concerned
them. But it directs no inquiries, evidently because the power
was believed to belong to the States. And as the landing of
the passengers depended on the State laws, the inquiries as to
their health and condition properly belonged to the State authorities. The act of 1819 may fairly be taken as denoting
the true line of division between the two sovereignties, asestablished by the Constitution of the United States and recognized by Congress.
I forbear to speak of other laws and treaties referred to.
.They are of the same import, and are susceptible'of the same
answer: There is no conflict, therefore, between the law of
Massachusetts and any treaty or law of the JV.nited States.
Undoubtedly, vessels engaged in the transportation of passengers from foreign countries may be regulated by Congress, and
are a part of the commerce of the country. Congress may
prescribe how the vessel shall be manned and navigated and
equipped, and how many passengers she may bring, and what
provision shall be made for them, and what tonnage she shall
pay. But the law of Massachusetts now in question does not
in any respect attempt to regulate this trade or impose burdens
upon it. I do not speak of the duty enjoined upon 'the pilot,
because that provision is not now before us, although I see no
objection to it. 'But this law imposes no tonnage duty on the
ship, or any tax upon the captain or passengers for entering its
waters. It merely refuses permission to the passengers to land
until the security demanded by the State for the-protection of
its own people from the evils of pauperism has been given. If,
however, the treaty or act of Congress above- referred to had

40 *

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

attempted to compel the State to receive them without any
security, the question would not be on tny conflicting iegulations of commerce, but upon one far more important to the
States, that is, the power of deciding who should or should not
be permitted to reside among its citizens. Upon that subject I
have already stated my opinion. I cannot, believe that it was
ever intended to vest in Congress, by the general words in relation to the regulation of commerce, this. overwhelming power
over the States. For if the treaty stipulation before referred
to can receive the construction given to it in the argument, and
has that commanding power claimed for it over the States,
then the emancipated slaves of the West Indies have at this
'hour the absolute right to reside, hire hoxuses, and traffic and
trade throughout the Southern States, in spite of any State law
to the contrary ;.inevitabl.y producing the most serious discontent, and ultimately leading to the most painful consequences.
It will hardly be said, that such a power was granted to the
general government in the confidence that it would not be
abused. The statesmen of that day were too wise and too
well read in the lessons of history and of their own times to
confer unnecessary authority under any such delusion. And I
cannot imagine any power more unnecessary to the general
government, and at the same time more dangerous and full of
peril to the States.
But there is another clause in the Constitution which it is
said confers the exclusive power over this subject upon the
general government. The ninth section of the first article declares that the migration or importation of such persons as any
of the States then existing should think proper to admit should
not be prohibited by the Congress prior to the year 1808, but
that a tax or duty might be imposed on such importation, not
exceeding ten dollars for each importation. The word migration is supposed to"apply to alien freemen voluntarily migrating
to this country, and this clause to place their admission or migration"entirely in the power of Congress.
At the time of the adoption of the Constitution, this clause
was understood by its friends to apply .altogether to slaves.
The Madison Papers will show that it was introduced and.
adopted solely to prevent Congress, before the time specified,
from prohibiting the introduction of slaves from Africa into
such States as should think proper to admit them. It was discussed on that ground in the debates upon it in the Convention; and the same construction -isgiven to it in the fortysoecond number' of the Federalist, which was writfen by Mr.
Madison, and certainly nobody could have understood the object and intention of this clause better than he did.

JANUARY TE.RI, 1849.

475

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief JustiCe Taney's Opinion.

It appears, frdm this number of the Federalist, that those wlT6
in that day were opposed to the Constitution, and endeavouring
to prevent its adoption, represented the word " migration" as
embracing freemen who might desire to migrate from Europe
to this country, and objected to the clause because it put it in
the power of Congress to prevent it. But the objection made
on that ground is dismissed in a few words, as being so evidently founded on misconstruction as to be unworthy of sdrious
reply; and it is proper to remark that the objection -then made
was, that it was calculated to prevent voluntary and beneficial
migration from Europe, which all the States desired to encourage. Now the argument is, that it was inserted to secure
it, and to prevent it from being interrupted by the States. If
the word can be applied to voluntary immigrants, the construction put upon it by those who opposed the Constitution is certainly the just one; for it is difficult to imagine Why "apower
should be so explicitly and carefully conferred on Congress to
prohibit immigraiioti, unless the majority of the States desired
to put an end to it, and to prevent any particula State from
contravening this policy. But it is admitted on all hands, that
it was then the policy of all the States to encourage immigration, as it was also the policy of the far greater number of them
to discourage the African slave-trade. And with these opposite
views upon these two subjects, the framers of the Constitution
would never have bound them both together in the same clause,
nor spoken of them as kindred subjects which" ought to be
treated alike, and which it would be the probable policy of
Congress to prohibit at the same time. No State could fear
any evil ftom the discouragement of immigration by other
States, because it'would have the power of opening its own
doors to the immigrant, and of securing to itself the advantages
it desired. The refusal of other States could in no degree
affect its interests or counterdct its policy. It is only upon the
ground that they considered it an evil, and desired to prevent
it, that this word can be construed to mean freemen, and to
class them in the same provision, and in the same words, with
the importation of slaves. The limitation of the prohibition
also shows that it does not apply to voluntary immigrants. Congress could not prohibit the migration and importation of such
persons during the time specified "in such States as might
think proper to admit them." This provision clearly implies
that there was a well-known difference of policy among the
States upon the subject to which this article relates. Now, in
regard to voluntary immigrants, all the States, without exception, not only admitted them, but encouraged them to come;
and the words "in such States as may think proper to admit

476

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

them" would have been useless and out of place if applied to
voluntary.immigrants. But in relation to slaves it was known
to be, otherwise; for while the African slave-trade was still
permitted in some of the more southern States, it had been
prohibited many years before, not only in what are now called
Fiee States, but -lso in States where slavery- still exists. In
Maryland, for example, it was prohibited as ealy as 1783.
The qualification of the power of prohibition, therefore, by the
words above mentioned, was entirely appropriate to the, importation f slaves, but inappropriate and useless in relation to
freemen. They could not and would not have been inserted
if the clause in question embraced them.
I admit that the word migrationin this clause of the Constitution has occasioned some difficulty in- its construction; yet
it was, in my judgment, inserted to prevent doubts or .cavils
upon its meaning; for as the words imports and impdrtation in
the English laws had always been applid to property and
things, as contradistinguished from persons, it seems to have
been apprehended that disputes might arise whether these
words covered the introduction of men into the country, although these, men -vere the property .of the persons who
brought them in. The framers -of the Constitution were unwilling to use the word slaves in the instrument, and described
them as persons; and so describing them, they employed a word
that would describe them as persons, and which had uniformly
been used when persons were spoken of, and also the word
which was always applied to matters of property. The whole
context of the sentence, and its provisions and limitations, and
the construction given to it by those who-asgisted in framing
the clause in question, show that it was intended to embrace
t
those persons only who were brought in as property.
But apartfrom these considekations, and-assuming that the
word migrationwas intended to describe those who iolunt rily
came into the country, the power granted is merely a power to
prohibit, not a power to comlfel tfe States to admit.
And it is caying the powers of the general government by
construction, and without express grant or necessry implication, much farther than has- ever heretbfore been done, if the
former is to be construed to carry with it th6 latter. The powers
are totally different in their nature, and totally different in their
action on the States. The prohibition could merely retard the
growth of population in the Statts. It could bring upon, them
no danger, nor any-new evil, moral or physical.
But the power of cormlrelling them to receive and to retain
among them persons whom the'State may deem dangerous to
its peace, or who may be-tainted with crimes or infectious

JANUARY

TERM,. 1849;

477

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief Justic.e Taney's Opinion..

diseases, or who may be a burden upon its industrious citizens,
would subject its domestic concerns and social relations to the
power of the Federal government.
It would require very plain.and unambiguous words to convince me that' the States had consented thus ,to place themsalvcs at the feet of the general government; and if this power is
granted in regard to voluntary immigrants, it-is equally granted
in the case of slaves. The grant of power is the same, and in
the same words, with respect to migration and to importation,
with the exception of the right to impose a tax upon the latter;
and if the States have granted this great power in one case,
they have granted it in the 6ther; and every. State may be.
compelled to receive' a cargo , of slaves from Africa, whatever
danger it may bring upon the State, and however earnestly it
may desire to prevent it. If the word migration is supposed
to include voluntary immigranis, it ought at least to be confined
to the power granted, and not eXtended by construction to
another power altogether unlike in its character and consequences, and far more formidable to the States.
But another clause is relied on by the plaintiff to show that
this law is unconstitutional. It is said that passengers are imports, and that-this charge is therefore an irihpost or duty on
imports, and prohibited to the States by the second clause of
the tenth section of the first article. This objection, as well
as others which I have previously noticed, is in direct conflict
with decisions heretofore made by this court. The point was
directly presented in the case of Miln v. The City of New
York, 11 Peters, 102, and was there deliberately considered,.
and the court decided that passengers clearly were not imports.
This decision is perfectly ii "accordance with the definition of
the word previously given in the case of Brown v. Maryland,
12 Wheat. 419. Indeed, it, not only accords with this definition, but with the long establisheil and well settled meaning of
the word. For I think it may be safely affirmed, that, both -in
England and this country, the words imports and importation,
in statutes, in 9tatistical tibles, in official reports, and in public
debates, have uniformly been applied to articles of property,
and never to passengers voluntarily coming to the'country in
ships; and in the debates of the Convention itself, the words
are constantly so used.
The members of the Convention unquestionably used the
words they inserted in the Constitution in the same sense in
which they used them in their debates. It was their object tobe understood, and not to mislead, and they ought not to be
supposed to have used familiar words in a new or unusual
sense. And there is no reason to suppose that they did not

478

SUPRIEME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

use the word imports, when they inserted it in the Constitution, in the sense in which it had been familiarly used for ages,
and in which it was daily used by themselves. If in this court
we are at liberty to give old -words new meanings when we. find
-them in the Constitution, there is no power which may not, by
this mode of construction, be conferred on the general government and denied to the States.
But if the plaintiff could succeed in maintaining that passengers were imports, and that the money demanded was a dut '
on imports, he would at the same time prove that it belongs to
the United States, and not to him, and, consequently, that he
is not entitled to recover it. The tenth section of the first
article prohibits a State from laying any duty on imports or
exports except -what may be. absolutely necessiary for the execution of its inspection laws. 'Whatever is 'necessary for that
purpose may therefore be laid by the State without the previous consent of Congress.
If passengers are imports, then their condition may be examined and inspected by an officer of the State like any other
import, for .the -purpose of ascertaining whether they may not
when landed bring disease or pauperism into the State ; for if
the State is bound to permit them to land, its citizens have yet
the right to know if there is danger, that they may endeavour
to avert it, or to escape from it. They have, therefore, under
the clause of the Constitution above mentioned, the power to
lay a duty on this import, as it is called, to pay the necessary
expenses of the inspection. It is, however, said, that more than
sufficient-to pay.the necessary expenses of the inspection was.
collecte.4and that the auty was laid also for other purposes.
Thig is true. But it does not follow that the party who paid
the money is entitled Io recover it back from the State. On
.the contraiy, it is expressly, provided in the clause above mentioned, that the-nef pro4uce of all"duties and imposts laid by
any State on-impbrts--or- 'exports shall-be for the use of the
treasury of the United States. - If, therefore, these passengers
were imports, within the meaing of this clause of the Constitution, and the money in question ,a duty'on imports, then the
net produce or surplus, after paying the necessary expenses of
inspection, belongs to the treasury of the-United States. The
plaintiff has no right to it, and cannot maintain a sit for it.
It is appropriated by the express wbrds of the Cor ztitution to
the United States, and they," and.they alone, would have a
right. to claim it from the Stt. The argument, however, that
n- my" judgment, most evidently
passeigers are imports"' Js, m
without any reasonable foundation.
The 6nly remaining' topicwhich seems to require examina-

JANUARY

TERM,

1849.

7. .
479

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief Juatice Taney's Opinion.

tion is the objection, that the money demanded is a tax on the
captain of the vessel, and therefore'a regulation of commerce.
This argument,- I think, is sufficiently answered by what I
have already said as to the real and true character of the transaction, and the relative powers of the Union and the States.
But I proceed to inquire whether, if the law of Massachusetts
be a tax, it is not a legitimate exercise of its taxing power, putting aside for the present the other considerations herein before
mentioned, and which I think amply sufficient to mintain its
validity.
Undoubtedly the ship, although eigaged in the transportation of passengers, is a vehicle of commerce, and within the
power of regulation granted to the general government; and I
assent fully to the doctrine upon that subject laid down in the
case of Gibbons v. Ogden. But it has always been held that
the power to regulate commerce does not give to Congress the
power to tax it, nor prohibit the States from taxing"it in their
own ports, and within their own jurisdiction. The authority
of Congress to lay taxes upon it is derived from the express
grant of power, in the eighth section of the first article, to lay
and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, and the inability
of the States to tax it arises from the express prohibition contained in the tenth section of the same article.
This was the construction of the Constitution at the time of
its adoption, the construction under which the people of the
States adopted it, and which has been affirmed in the clearest
terms by the decisions of this court.
In the thirty-second number of the Federalist, before referred
to, and several of the preceding numbers, the construction, of
the Constitution as to the taxing power of the general government and of the States is very filly examined, and with all
that clearness and ability which everywhere mark the labors
of its distinguished authors; and in these numbers, and more
especially in the one above mentioned, the construction above
stated is given to the Constitution, and supported by the most
conclusive arguments. It maintains that no right of taxation
which the States had previously enjoyed was surrendered unless expressly prohibited; that it was not impaired by any
affirmative grant of power to the general government; that
duties on imports were a part of the taxing power, and that the
States would have had a right, after the adoption of the Constitution, to lay duties on imports and exports, if they had not been
expressly prohibited.
The grant of the power to regulate commerce, therefore, dia.
not, in the opinion of Mr. Hamilton, Mr. Madison, and Mr.
Jay, prohibit the States from laying imposts and duties upon

480

SUPIEME COURT.
Passengei' Cases.-,Mr.* Chief Justice -Taniey's' Opinion.

imports brought into their own territories. It 4id not apply to
the right -of taxation- in' eithe sovereignty, the taxing, power
being a distinct _nd separate power from the regulation of commerce; and the right of taxation in -the States remaining over
every subject'where it before existed, with the exception only
of those expressly prohibited.
This construction, as given by the Federalist, was recognized
as the true one, and'affirmed by this court, in the case of Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 201. The passage upon this subject
is so clear and forcible, that I quote the words used in the
opinion of the court,' which was delivered by Chief Justice
Marshall.
"In a separate clause," he says, "of the enumeration, the
power to regulate commerce is given, as being.entirely distinct
from the right to levy taxes and" imposts, and as being a new
power not before conferred. The Constitution then considers
those powers as substantive and distinct from each other, and
so places them in the enumeration it contains. The power of
imposing duties on imports is classed with the power to levy
faxes, and that seems to be its natural place. But the power
to levy takes could never be considered as abridgiiig the right
of the States on that subject;- and they might) consequently,
have exercised it by levying -duties on imports or exports, had
the Constitution, contained no prohibition upon the subject.
This prohibition, then, is an exception from the acknowledged
power of thb States to lev'r taxes, not from -the questionable
power to regulate commerce."
With such authorities to support me, so clearly and explicitly
stating the doctrine, it cannot be necessary to pursue the argument further.
I may therefore safely assume, that, according to the true-constr*uction of the Constitution, the power granted to Congress to
regulate commeree did not in any degree abridge .the power of
taxation in the States; and that they would at this day have
theright to tax the merchandise 'brought into their ports and
harbours by the authority and under the regulations of- Congress, had they not been expressly prohibited.
They .are expressly lrohibited from laying any duty on imports-or exports, except.what may be absolutely necessary for
executing their inspection laws, and also from laying any tonnageduty. So far, their taxing powver over commerce is re-.
straiied, but no farther. They retain all the rest; and if the
money demanded is a tax upon commerce, or the instrument or
vehicle of commerce, it furnishes no objection to it unless it is
a duty Qn imports or a tonnage duty, for these alone are forbidden.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

481

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

And this brings me back to the question whether alien passengers from a foreign country are imports. I have already
discussed that question, and need not: repeat what' I have said.
Most clearly, in my opinion, they are not imports; and if they
are not, then, according to the authorities referred to, the State
has a right to tax them, -their authority to tax not being
abridged in any respect by the -power in the general government to regulate commerce. I say nothing as to its being a
tonnage duty, for, although mentioned in the argument, I do
not suppose any reliance could be placed upqn it.
It is said that this is a tax upon the captain, and therefore a
tax upon an instrument of commerce. According to the authorities before referred to, if it were a tax on the captain it
would be no objection to it, unless it were indirectly a duty on
imports or tonnage.
Unquestionably a tax on the captain of a ship, bringing in
merchandise, would be indirectly a tax on imports, and consequently unlawful; but his being an instrument of commerce
and navigation does not make it so; for a tax upon the instrument of commerce is not forbidden. Indeed, taxes upon property in ships 'are, continually laid, and their validity never yet
invalid, it
doubted. And to maintain that a tax upon him "is
must first be shown that passengers are imports or merchandise,
and that the tax was therefore indirectly a tax upon imports.
But although this nioney is demanded of the captain, and required to be paid by him or his owner before the passenger is
landed, it is in no proper and legitimate sense of the word a tax
on him. Goods and merchandise cannot be landed by the cap-tain until the duties upon them are paid or secured. He may,
if he pleases, pay the duty without waiting for his owner or
consignee. So here the captain, if he chose, might pay the
money and obtain the privilege of landing his passengers without waiting for his owner or consignee. But he was under no
obligation to do it. Like the case of a cargo, he could not land
his passengers until it was done. Yet the duties demanded in
the former case have never been supposed to be a tax on the
captain, but upon the goods imported. And it would beagainst all analogy, and against the ordinary construction of all
statutes, to call this demand a tax on the captain. The amount
demanded depends upon the number of passengers who desire
to land. It is not a fixed amount on every captain or every
ship engaged in the passenger trade; nor upon her amount of
tonnage. It is no objection, then, to the Massachusetts law fo
say, that the ship is a vehicle or the captain an instrument of
commerce.
The taxing power of the State is restrained only where the
41
voL. vIZ.

482

SUPREME COURT.
Passengex Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opi'nion.

tax is directly or indirectly a duty on imports or tonnage. And
the case.before us is the first ill which this power has beeii held
to be still further abridged by.mere afftiative grants of power
to the general government. -In my judgment, this restriction
on the power of the States is a new Aoctrine, in opposition to
the contemporaneous construction and the authority of adjudged cases. And if it. is hereafter to be the lawof this court,
that the power to regulate commerce has abridged the taxing
power of the States upon ihe vehicles or instruments of commerce, I cannot foresee to what it may lead; whether the same
prohibition, upon the same principle, may not.be carried out in
respect to ship-owners and merchandise in a way seriously to
impair the-powers of taxation which have heretofore been exercised by the States.
I conclude the subject by quoting the language of Chief Justice Marshall in the lcase of Billings v. The Providence Bank,
in 4 Peters,-561, where, speaking upon this subject, he says: "That the taxing pdwer is of vital importance, that it is
essential to the existence of government, are truths which it
cannot be necessary to reaffirm. They are acknowledged and
assented to by all. It would seem that the relinquishment of
such a power is never to be assumed.' We will not say that a
State may not relinquish it, - that a consideration sufficiently
valuable to induce a partial release of it may not exist; but as
the whole commuriity is interested in retaining. it- undiminished, that community has a right- to insist that its abandonment ought n6t to be presumed in a case in which the deliberate purpose of the State to abandoirAt does not appear.",
Silch has heretofore been the language of this court, and I
can see nothing in the, power granted to Congress to regulate
commerce that shows a deliberate -purpose on the part of the
States who adopted the Constitution-to abandon any right-of
taxation except what is directly prohibited. The contrary appears in the authentic publications of the time.
It cannot be necessary to* say any thing upon the article of
the Constitution which gives to Congress the power to establish a unifofm rule of naturalization. The motive and object
of this provision are too plain to be misunderstood. Under the
Constitution of the United States, citizens of each State are entitled to the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several
States; and no State would be willing that another State
should determine for it what foreigner should become one of
its citizens., and be entitled to hold lands and to vote at its
elections. For, without this provision, any one State could
have given the right of citizenship in every other State; and,
as every citizen of a State is also a citizen of the United States,

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

483

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

a single State, without this provision, might have -given to
any number of foreigners it pleased the right to all the privileges of citizenship in, commerce, trade, and navigation, although they did not even reside amongst us.
The nature of our institutions under the Federal government made it a matter of absolute necessity that this power
should be confided to the government'of the Union, where all
the States were represented, and where all had a voice; a:
necessity so obvious that no statesman could have oi'erlooked
it. The article has nothing to do with the admission or rejection of aliens, nor with immigration, but with the.rights of citizenship. Its sole object was to prevent one State from forcing
upon all the others, and upon the general government, persons
as citizens whom they were unwilling to admit as such.
It is proper to adl, that the State laws which were under
examination in the License Cases applied altogether to merchandise of the description mentioned in those laws, which was
imported into a State from foreign countries or from another
State; and as the States have no power to lay a tax or duty
on imports, the laws in question were subject to the control
of Congress until the.articles had ceased to be imports, according to the legal meaning of the word. And it is with reference to such importations and regulations of Congress and the
States concerning them, that the paraniount power of Congress is spoken of in some of the opinions then delivered.
The questions as to the power of a State to exclude from its
territories such aliens as it may deem unfit to reside among its
citizens, and to prescribe'the conditions on which -they may
enter it, and ai to the 'power of a State to levy a tax for revenue upon alien passengers arriving from foreign ports, were
neither of them involved in those cases, and were not considered or discussed in the opinions.
I come now to the case from New York.
The object of this law is to guard its citizens, not only from
the burdens and evils of foreign paupers, but also against the
introduction of contagious diseases. It is not, therefore, like
the law of Massachusetts, confined, to aliens, but the money is
required to be paid for every passenger arriving from a foreign,
port. ,The tax is imposed on the passenger in this case clearly
and distinctly; for although the captain who lands them is
made liable for the cllection, yet a right is expressly. secured.
to him to recover- it from the passenger. There can be no
objection to this law upon the ground that the burden is
inposed upon citizens of other States, because citizens of New
York are equally liable; but embracing, as it does, its own
citizens and citizens of other States, when they arrive from a

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

foreign port, the right of a State to determine whdt person or
class of persons shall reside among them does not arise, and
what I have said upon that subject in the Boston case is inapplicable to this. 'In every other respect, however, it stands
upon the same principles, involving also other and further considerations, which I proceed to notice, and which place it upon
grounds equally firm with the case from Massachusetts.
., It will be admitted, I understand, that New York has the
right to protect herself from contagious diseases, and possesses
the right to inspect ships with dargoes, and to determine when
it is safe to permit the vessel to come to the wharf, or the
cargo to be discharged. In other words, it may establish quarantine laws. Consequently the State may tax the ship and
cargo with the expenses of inspection, and with the costs and
expenses of all measures deemed necessary by the State authorities. This is uniformly the case in quarantine regulations; and, although there is not the least appearance of disease in the crew, and the cargo is free from taint, yet if the
ship comes from a port where a contagious disease is supposed
to exist, she ,isalways placed under quarantine, and subjected
to the delay and expenses incident to that condition, and
beither the crew nor cargo suffered to land until the State
authorities are satisfied that it may be- done without danger.
The power of deciding from what port or ports there is danger
of disease, and what ship or crew shall be made subject to
quarantine, on account of the-port from which she sailed, and
what ,precautions and securities are required to guard against it,
must of'necessity belong to the -State authorities ; for otherwise the power to direct the quarantine could not be executed.
And this power of a State has been constantly maintained and
affirmed in this court whenever the subject has been under
consideration. And when the State authorities have directed
the quarantine, if proof should be offered showing that the
foreign ports to which it applied were freb from disease, and
that there was no just ground for apprehension, this court
would hardly, upon that ground, feel itself authorized to pronounce the expenses charged upon the vessel to be unconstitutional, and the law imposing them to be void.
Upon every principle of reason and justice, the s~ine rule
must be applied to passengers that-is applied to ships and cargoes. If, for example, while rumors were recently prevailing
that the cholera had shown itself in. the principal seaport
towns of Europe, New York had been injudicious enough to
embarrass her own trade by placing at quarantine all vessels and
persons coming from those ports, and burdened them with the
heavy expenses and ruinous delays incident to that measure, -

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

485

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief-Justice Taney's Opinion.

or if she were to do so now, when apprehensions are felt that
it may again suddenly make its appearance in the great marts
of European trade, - this court certainly would not undertake
to determine that these fears are groundless, and precautionary
measures unnecessary, and the law therefore unconstitutional,and that every passenger might land at his own pleasure. Nobody, I am sure, will 'contend for such a power. And however groundless the apprehension, and however injurious and
uncalled for such regulations may be, still, if adopted by the
State, they miist be obeyed, and the -courts of the United
States cannot.treat them as nullities.
If the State has the same right to guard itself from persons
from whom infection is feared that it has to protect itself
against the danger arising.from ships with cargoes, it follows
that it may exerciserthe same power in regard to the former
that it exercises in ielation to the latter, and" may tax them
with the expense of the sanatory measures which their afrival from a foreign port is supposed to render necessary or prudent.
For the expenses imposed on ships with cargoes, or on the
captain or owner, are as much a tax as the demand of a particular sum to be. paid to the officer of the State; to be expended
for the same purpose.- -It is in'truth always the demand of a
sum of money to indemnify the State for the expense it incurs. And, as I have already said, these charges are not always
made and enforced against ships actually infected vith disease,
but frequently upon a. particular class of vessels; that is to
say, upoA all ships coming from ports from which danger is
apprehended,- upon the sound and healthy as well as the infected.. The charge is not made. upon those ships alone which
bring disease with them, but upon all that come from a port or
ports from which it is .feared disease may be brought. It is
true the expenses may and do differ in amount, according to
the condition of the ship land cargo. Yet all are subjected to
the tax, to the amount of the charges incurred by the State.
Now, in the great commercial emporium of New York,
hundreds are almost daily arriving from' different parts of the
world, and that multitude of strangers (among whom are always many of the indigent and infirm) inevitably produces a
mass of pauperism which, if not otherwise provided for, mnst
press heavily on the industry of its citizens; and which, moteover, constantly subjects them to the danger of infectious diseases. It is to guard them against these dangers that the law
in question was passed. The apprehensions which appear to
have given rise to it may be without foundation as to some of
the foreign ports from which passengers have arrived, but that
. 41*

486

SUPREME COURT.Passenger Cases.-

19r. Chief. Justice

Taney's Opinion.

is not a subject of inquiry here; and it will hardl' be denied
that there are sufficient grounds for apprehension and for measures of precaution as to many pf the places from which passenger ships are frequently arriving. Indeed, it can hardly be
said that there is -any' European port from which emigrants
usually come which can be regarded as an exception.
The danger arising from passenger ships cannot be provided
against, with a due regard to the interests and convenience of
trade and- to the calls of humanity, by precisely the same
means that are usually employed in cases of ships with
cargoes. In the latter case, you may act without difficulty
upon the particular ship, and charge it with the expenses which
are incident to the quarantine regulations. But how are you
to provide for hundreds of sick and suffering passengers? for
infancy and age? for those who have no means, -who

are not

objects of taxation, but of charity? You must have an extensive hospital, suitable grounds about it, nurses and. physicians,
and provide food and: medicine for them: Anrid it is but just
that these expenses should be borne by the class'of persons
.who make them necessary; that is to -say, the passengers from
foreign ports. It-is from 'them, as a class, that the danger
.is feared, and they 'occasion the expenditure. They are all
entitled to share in the relief which is provided, and the State
cannot foresee which of them will require it and which will
not. -Itis provided -for all that need it, and all should therefore contribute. You must deal with them as you do with
ships with merchandise and crews arriving from ports where..
infectious diseases are supposed to exist; vhen, although the
drew are in perfect health, and the ship and cargo free from
infection, yet the -ship-owner must bear the expense of the
sanatory precautions vhich are supposed to be necessary on
account of the pl'ce from which the vessel comes.
The State might, it is true, have adopted towards the passenger ships the quarantine regulations usually applied to ships
with merchandise. It might have directed that the passenger
ships from any foreign 15ort should be anchored 'n the stream,
and the passengers not permitted to land for the period of time
deemed prudent. And if this had been done, the ship-owner
would have been burdened with the support of his numerous
passengers, and his ship detained for days, or even weeks, after
And if a contagious .disease had
the voyage was ended.
broken out' on the a-age, or appeared after the vessel arrived
in port, the delay-aid'expense to him would. have been still
more serious.
The sanatory measures presbribed by this law are far more
favorable to the 'passengers" than the- ancient regulations, and

JANUARY TERM, 1849.-

487

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

incomparably more so to the feeble, the sick, and the poor.
They are far more favorable, also, and less burdensome, to the
ship-owner ; and no one, I think, can fail to see that the ancient
quarantine regulatio'ns, when applied" to passenger ships, are altogether unsuited to the present condition of things, to the coit.
venience of trade, and to the enlightened policy which governs
our intercourse with foreign nations. The ancient quarantine
regulations were introduced when the passenger trade, as a
regular occupation, was unknown, and when the intercourse
between nations was totally unlike what it is at the 5resent
day. And after all, these quarantine regulations are nothing
more than the mode in which a nation exercises its power of
guarding its citizens from the danger of disease. It was, no
doubt, well suited to the state of the world at the time when
it was generally adopted; but can there be any reason why a
State may not adopt other sanatory regulations in the place of
them, more suitable to the free, speedy, and extended intercourse of modern times? Can there be any reason why'they
should not be made less oppressive to the passenger, and to the
ship-owner and mariner, and less embarrassing and injurious to
commerce? This is evidently what the New York law intended to accomplish, and has accomplished, while the law has
been permitted to stand. It is na more a regulation of commerce, and, indeed, is far less burdensome and occasions less
interruption to commerce, than the ancient quarantine regulations. And I cartnot see upon what ground it can be supposed
that the Constitution of the United States permits a State to
use the ancient means of guarding the health of its citizens,
and at the same time denies to it the power of mitigating its
hardships and of adapting its sanatory regulation to the extended and incessant intercourse with foreign nations, and the more
enlightened philanthropy of modern times; nor .why the State
should be denied the privilege of providing for the sick and suf.fering on shore, instead of leaving them to perish on shipboard.
Quarantine regulations are not specific and unalterable powers
in a State; they are but the means of executing a power. And
certainly other and better means may be .adopted in place of
them, if they are not prohibited by the Constitution of the
United States. And if the old mode is constitutional, the one
adopted by the law of New York must be equally free from
objection. Indeed, the case of The'City of New York v. Miln,
so often referred to in the argument, ought, in my judgment,
to decide this. It seems to me that the present case is entirely
within the -principles there ruled by the court.
I had not intended to say any thing further in relation to the
case of New York v. Miln, but the remarks of one of my breth-

488

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

ren have rendered it necessary for me to speak of it more particularly, since I have referred to it as the deliberate judgment
of the court. It is eleven years since that decision was pronounced. After that lapse of time, I am sensible that I ought
not to undertake to state every thing that passed in conference
or in private conversations; because I may be mistaken in some
particulars, although my impressions are strong that all the circbmstances are yet in my memory. And I am the less disposed to enter upon such a statement, because, in my judgment, its judicial authority ought not to rest on any such
circumstances depending on individual "memory. The court
at that time consisted of seven members; four of them are
dead, and among them the eminent jurist who delivered the
opinion of-the court. -All of the seven judges-were present,
and partook in the deliberations which preceded the decision.
The opinion must have .been read in conference, ahd assented
to or acquiesced in by a majority of the court, precisely as it
stood, otherwise-it cbuld not have been delivered as the court's
opinion. It was delivered from the bench in open court, as
usual, and only one of the seven judges, Mr. Justice Story, dissented. Mr. Justice Thompson delivered his own 6pinion,
which concurred in the opinion of the court, bilt which, at the
same time; added another ground, which the court declined
taking and determined to leave open. This will be seen by
referring to the opinions. And if an opinion thus prepared and
delivered and promulgated in the official report may now be
put aside, on the ground that it did not express what at that
time was the opinion of the majority of the court, I do not see
how the, decisions, when announced by a single judge, (as is
usual when the majority concur,) can hereafter command the
public confidence. What is said to have happened in this case
may, for aught we know, have happened in others. In Gibbons v. Ogden, for example, or Brown v.'The State of Maryland, which have been so often referred to. The question which the court determined to leave open was,
whether regulations of commerce, as such, by a State within
its own territories, are prohibited by the grant of the powei to
Congress. This appears in the, opinion itself, and the law of
New York was maintained on what was called the police
power of the State. I ought to add, as Mr. Justice Baldwin
has been particularly referred to, that the court adjourned on
the; day the opinion was. delivered, arid on the next day he
called on me and said there was a sentence, or a paragraph, I
.do not remember-which, that had escaped his- attention, and
which he was dissatisfied with, and wished altered. Of course
nothing could be done, as the court had separated, and Mr.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

489

Passenger Cases.-Air. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

Justice Barbour, as well as others, had left town. Mr. Justice
Barbour and Mr. Justice Baldwin were both present at the next
term, and for several terms after -but I never heard any further
dissatisfaction expressed with the opinion by Mr. Justice Baldwin, and never at any time, until this case came before us,
heard any from any other member of the court who had assented to or acquiesced in the opinion, nor any proposition to
correct it. I have no reason to suppose that Mr. Justice Barbour ever heard in his lifetime that the accuracy of his opinion
had been questioned, or that any-alteration had been desired in
it. And I have the strongest reasofi to suppose that Mr. Justice
Baldwin had become satisfied, because, in his opinion in Groves
v. Slaughter, he quotes the case of New York v. Miln with approbation, when speaking in that case of the difference between
commercial and police power. The passage is in 15 Pet. 511,"
where he uses the following language: - " The opinion of this
court in the case of Miln v.. New York, 11 Pet. 130, &c., draws
the true line between the two classes of regulations, and gives
an easy solution to any doubt which may arise on the clause
of the constitution of Mississippi which has been under consideration." I quote his words as judicially spoken, and forming a part of the official report.
I have deemed it my duty to say this much, as I am one of
the three surviving judges who sat in that case. My silence
would justly have created the belief that I concurred in the
statement Which has been made in relation to -the case of
which I am speaking. But I do not concur. My recollectiong,
on the contrary, differ from it in several particulars. But it
would le out of place to enter on such a discussion here. All
I desire to say is, that I know nothing that, in my judgment,
ought to deprive the case of New York v. Miln of its full judicial weight as it stands in the official report. Mr. Justice Barbour delivered the opinion. Mr. Justice Thompson's opinion
maintains, in the main, the same principles; Mr. Justice Baldwin, four years afterwards, quoted it with approbation; and I
certainly assented to it, -maiing a majority of the whole court.
I speak of the opinion of my deceased brethren from their public acts. Of the opinions of those who sit beside me I have no
right to speak, because they are yet here and hav& spoken for
themselves. But it is due to myself to say, that 6ertainly, at
the time the opinion was delivered, I had no reason to suppose
that they did not both fully concur in the reasoning and principles, as well as in the judgment. And if the decision now
made is to come in conflict with the principles maintained in
that case, those who follow us in these seats must hereafter decide between the two cases, and determine which of them best

490

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

accords with the tiue construction of the Constitution, and
ought, therefore, to stand. The law now in question, like the
law under consideration in the case of New York v. Miln, is, in
all of fis substantial objects and provisions, in .strict analogy to
the ordinary quarantine regulations in relation to ships with
cargoes from places supposed to be dangerous; at least as much
so as the nature of the danger brought, by a passenger ship, and
the means necessary to guard against it, will permit.
But if this law is held to- be invalid, either because it is a
regulation of commerce, or because it comes in conflict'with a
law of Congress, in what rmode can the State protect' itself?
how can it provide against the danger of pestilence and pauperism from passenger ships?- It is admitted that it has a right
,to do so; that want and disease are not the' subjects of commerce, and not within the power granted to Congress., They
do not obey its laws. Yet, if the State has the right, there
must be a'remedy, in some form or other, ial its own hands, as
.there is in the case of ships with cargoes. The State can
scarcely be required to take upon itself, and impose upon the
industry -of its .citizens, the duty of supporting- the immense
mass of poverty and helplessness which is now pressing so
heavily upon property in Europe, and which it.is endeavouring
to throw off, It cannot be expected -that it should take upon:
itself the burden of providing buildings, grounds, food, and all
the necessary comfortg for the multitude of helpless and poor
Spassengers who are daily arriving from foreign ports. Neither,
presume, will it be, expected that the citizens of New York
s ould disregard the calls'of sympathyand charity, and repulse
from their shores the needy and wretched who are seeking an
asylum amongst them. Those who deny the legality of the
mdde adopted would seem .to be called upon to point out
another consistent with .the rights and safety of the State, and
with the interests of commerce in the present condition of the
commercial world,'and not inconsistent with the obligations of
•humanity. I have heard none suggested, and I think it would
be difficult to devise one on the-principles on which this case
is decided, unless the health and the lives of the citizens of
every State are made altogether dependent upon the protection
of the Federal government, and the reserved powers of the
States over this subject, which were affirmed by this court in
Gibbons v. Ogden and Brown v. The State of Maryland, are
now to be denied.
• With regard to the taxing power.in the State, the case of
Brown v. The State of Maryland, referred to in the argument,
does not appl t to it. The riglls of the ship-owner or the captain wore in no degree inrolved in that suit. Nor was 'there

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

491

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

any question as to when the voyage terminated, as to the ship,
or when passengers were entitled to land. The case turned
altogether upon the rights of the importer, the owner of imported goods; and the inquiry was, how long and under what
circumstances they continued, after they had been actually landed, to be imports or parts of foreign commerce, subject to the
control of Congress and exempt therefore from taxation by the
State. And even with regard to the importer, that case did not
decide that he was not liable to be taxed for the amount of his
capital employed in trade, although these imports were a part
of that capital.
I But here there is no owner. It is the case of passengers,
.freemen. It is admitted that they are not exempt from taxation after they are on shore. And the question is, When was
the voyage or passage ended, and when did the captain and
passengers pass from the jurisdiction and protection of the
general government and enter into that'of the State. The
act of 1819 regulated and prescribed the duties of the shipowner and captain during the voyage, and until the entry *as
made at the custom-house and the proper list delivered. It
makes no further provision in relation to any of the parties.
The voyage was evidently regarded as then completed, and the
captain and passengers as passing from the protection and regulations of Congress, into the protection and exclusive jurisdiction of the State. The passengers were no longer under'
the control of the captain. They? might have landed where
and when they pleased, if the State law permitted it, and the
captain had no right to prevent them. If he attempted to do
so, there was no law of Congress to afford redress or to grant
relief. They must have looked for protection to the State law
and the State authorities. If a murder had been committed,
there was no law of Congress to putish it. The personal
safety of the passengers and the captain, and their rights, of
property, were exclusively under the jurisdiction and protection
of the State. If the right of taxation did not exist in this
case in return for the protection iforded, it is, I think, a new
exception to the general rule upon that subject. For all the
parties, the captain as well as the passengers, were as entirely
dependent for the protection of their rights upon the State authorities, as if they were dwelling -in a house in one of its
cities; and I cannot. see why they should not be equally liable
to be taxed, when no clause can be found in the Constitution
of the United States which prohibits it.
"
Th different provisions of the two laws, and the different
circumstances of the two cases, made it necessary to say this
much concerning the case from New York. In all other re-

492

SUPREME

COURT.

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Chief-Justice Taney's Opinion.

spects, except those to which I have adverted, they stand upon
the same principles, and what I have said of the Boston case
is equally applicable to this.
In speaking of the taxing power in this case, I must,. how-ever, be understood as speaking of it as it is presented in the
record, - that is to say, as the case of passengers from a foreign port. The provisions contained in that law relating to
American citizens who are passengers from the ports of other
States is-a different question, and involves very different considerations. It is not now before us ; yet, in .order to avoid
misunderstanding, it is proper to say, that, in my opinion, it
cannot be maintained. Living as we do under a common government, charged with the great concerns of ihe whole Union,
every citizen of the United States, from the most remote
States or Territories, is entitled to free access, not only to the
principal departments established at Washington, but also to
its judicial tribunals and public offices in every State arid Territory of the Union. And the various provisions in the Constitution of the United States -such, for example, as the right
to sue in a federal court sitting in another State, the right to
pursue and reclaim one who has escaped from service, the
equal privileges and immunities secured to citizens of other
States, and the provision that vessels bound to or from one State
to another shall not be obliged to enter and clear or pay duties
all prove that it intended to secure the freest intercourse
between the citizens of the different States. For all the great
purposes for which the Federal government was formed, we are
,one people, with one common country. We are all citizens of
the United States; and, as members of the same community,
must have the right to pass and repass through ^every part of
it without interruption, as freely as in our 6wn States. And
a tax imposed by a State for entering its territories or harbours
is inconsistent with the rights which belong to the citizens of
other States as members. of the Union, and with the objects
which that Union was intended to attain. Such a power in
the States could produce nothing but discord and mutual irritation, and they very clearly do not possess it.
But upon the question which the record brings up, the judgment in the New York case, as well as that from Massachusetts, ought, in my opinion, to be affirmed.
It has been said in the discussion of these cases, by
NOTE. those who maintain that the State laws are unconstitutional,
that commerce means intercourse; and that the power granted
to regulate it ought to' be construed to include intercourse.
I have never been able to see that any argument which need-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

493

Pass-enger Cases.-Mr. Chief Justice Taney's Opinion.

ed examination could be justly founded on this suggestion, and
therefore omitted to notice it in the aforegoing opinion. But
some stress was, perhaps, intended to be laid on the word intercourse thus introduced, and I therefore subjoin this brief
note, in order to show that it has not been overlooked.
It has always been admitted, in the discussions upon this
clause of the Constitution, that the power to regulate commerce includes navigation, and ships, and crews, because they
-are the ordinary means of commercial intercourse; and if it is
intended by the introduction of the -v&ord intercourse rierely
to say that the power to regulate commerce includes.in it navigation, and the vehicles and instruments of commerce, it leaves
the question in dispute precisely where it stood before, and requires no further answer.
But if intercourse means something more than commerce,
and would give to the general government a wider range of
power over the States, no one, I -am sure, will claim for this
court the power to interpolate it, or to construe the Constitution as if it was found there. And if, under the authority to
regulate commerce, Congress cannot compel the States to admit or reject aliens or other persons coming from foreign ports,
but would possess the - power if the word fiztercourse is, by
construction, substituted in its place, every one will admit that
a consfruction .whicli substitutes a word of larger meaning than
the word usedin the Constitution could not be justified or defended upon any principle of judicial authority.
The introduction of the word intercourse;therefore, comes
'to this: if it means nothing more than the word commerce, it
is- merely the addition of a word *ithout changing the argument ; 'but if it is a word of larger meaning, it is sufficient to
say that then this court cannot substitute it for the word of
more limited meaning contained in the Constitution. In either
view, therefore, of the meaning to be attached to this word intercourse, it can form- no foundation for an argument to support the power now claimed for the general government.
And if comnmerce with foreign nations could be construed
to include the intercourse of persons, and to embrace travellers
and passengers, as well as merchandise and trade, Congress
would also have the power to regulate this intercourse between
the several States, and to exercise this power of regulation
over citizefis passing from one. State to another. It, of course,
needs no argument to prove that such a power over the intercourse of persons passing from one State to another is not
granted to the Federal government by the power to regulate
commerce among the several States. Yet, if commerce does
not mean the intercourse of persons between the several States,
VOL. VIL

42

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

and does not embrace passengers or travellers from one State
to another, it necessarily follows that the same word dbes not
include passengers or travellers from foreign countries. And
if Congress, under its power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations, possesses the power claimed for it in the decision of
this case, the same course of reasoning and the same rule of
construction (by substituting tntercourse for commerce) would
give the general government the same power over the intercourse of persons between different States.
Allusion has been made in the course of thes6 dliscussions
to the exclusive power of the Federal government in relation to
intercourse with foreign nations, potentates, and public authorities. This exclusive power is derived from its ,power of
peace and war, its treaty-making power, its exclusive right
to send and receive ambassadors and other public functionaries,
and its intercourse in exercising this power is exclusively with
governments and public authorities, and has no connection
whatever with private persons, whether they be emigrants
or passengers, or travellers by land or water from a foreign
country
This power over intercourse with foreign governments and authorities has frequently been spoken of, in opinions delivered in this .court, as an exclusive, power. And I do
not suppose that any of these opinions have been alluded to
in this case, as furnishing any argument upon the question
now before us. For an argument drawn from a mere similitude of words, which are used in relation to a subject entirely
different, would- be a sophism too palpable to need serious
reply
Mr. Justice DANIEL, dissenting.
NORRIs -v. CITY OF BOSTON,

AND SMITH V. TURNER.

Of the decision of the court just given, a solemn 'sense of
duty compels me to declare my disapproval. Impressed as I
am with the mischiefs with which that decision is believed to
be fraught, trampling down, as tc me t seems to do, some of
the strongest defences of the safety and independence of the
States of this confederacy, it would be worse than a fault in
me could I contemplate the invasion in silence. I am unable
to suppress my alarm at the approach. of power claimed to be
uncontrollable and unlimited. My objecti6ns to the decision
of the court, and the' grounds on which it is rested, both at the
bar and by the court, will be exemplified in detail in considering the case of Smith v. Turner, arising under the statute of
New York. The provision of the statute m question is m
the following words -

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

495

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

"The health-commissioner shall demand and be entitled to
receive, and in case of neglect or refusal to pay shall sue for
and recover, m his name of office, the following sums from the,
master of every vessel that shall arrive in the port of New
York, viz. - 1. From the master of every vessel from a
foreign port, for himself and each cabin passenger, one dollar
and fifty cents, for each steerage passenger, mate, sailor, or
(Rev Stat. of New York, 445.)
mariner, one dollar."
It is wholly irrelevant to the case before us to introduce any
other provisions of this statute, such provisions have no connection with this cause, which originated in the single provision just cited, the intrusion of other provisions of the law of
New York can tend only to confusion,1 and to the effect of
diverting the mid from the only proper question for our decision.
Under this provision of the statute, an action was brought by
the defendant in error, as health-officer of New York, against
the plaintiff in error, to recover the amount authorized by the
statute to be demanded of him for bringing within the port of
the city of New York, from a foreign country, two hundred
and ninety-five alien passengers. It is deemed necessary particularly to state the character of the persons with respect to
whose entrance the demand originated and was made, with the
view to anticipate objections which might be founded on a supposed invasion of the right of transit in Ayerican citizens from
one portion of the nation to another. T raise such an objecan of straw, for the
tion would be the creation of a mere
quixotic parade of being tilted at and emolished. This case
involves no right of transit in Americ n citizens or their property, it is a question raised simply anid entirely upon the right
of the State to impose conditions on which aliens, or persons
from foreign countries, may be introduced within her territory
When a case 'f a different tharacter, touching the right of
transit in citizens, shall arise, it will then, and"not till then, be
proper to consider it. We cannot properly take cognizance of
matters existing only in imagination. Whether this statute of
New York and those which have preceded it -n parz materia,
be wise, or beneficent, or equitable, or otherwise, in their provisions,- whetheriinder color of those statutes, more may have
been collected than either justice or prudence, or the objects
professed in those laws, would require, - wJaether the amounts
collected have "been diverted to purposes different from those
alleged in excuse for such collection, - are not questions adjourned hither for adjudication upon this record. The legitimate and only regular inquiry before the eourt is this. whether the authority claimed and exerted by New York, and

496

SUPIEME COURT
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

the mode she has chosen for its exertion, be in conformity with
the provisions of the Constitution?. I shall dismiss from my
view of this cause every other question, as irrelevant and out
of place.
The legislation of New York, and the proceedings adopted
to enforce it, are assailed as violations of the Constitution, first,
as being repugnant to, and an interference with, the power delegated to Congress to regulate foreign commerce. And this
general proposition has been divided into two nmore specific
grounds of objection
1st. The-prohibition to the States -to levy taxes or inposts
on imports.
2d. The alleged right of Congress- to regulate exclusively the
admission of aliens, - a right insisted on as falling by construction within the' commercial power, or within some other implication in the Constitution.
As guides in the examination of these objections, I will take
leave to propound certain rules or principles regarded by myself, at least, as postulates, and conceded to be such, perhaps,
by every expositor of the Constitution and. of the powers of the
State governments.
1st. Then, Congress have no powers save those which are
expressly delegated by the Constitution, and such as are necessary to the exercise of powers expressly delegated. (Constitution, art.1, sec. 8, clause 18, and Amendments, art. 10.)
2d. The necessary adxiliary powers vested by art. 1, see. 8,
of the Constitution cannot be correctly interpreted as conferring powers which, in their own nature, are original, independent substantive powers, they must be incident to original substantive grants, ancillary in their nature and -objects, and controlled by and limited to the original grants themselves.
3d. The question, whether a law be void for its repugnancy
to the Constitution, ought seldom, if ever, to be decided in the
affirmative in a doubtful case. It is not on slight implication
and vague conjecture, that a legislature is to be pronounced
to have transcended its powers; and its acts to be considered
void. The opposition between the Constitution and the law
should be -such, that the judge feels a clear and strong conviction of. their iifeompatibility with each other. (6 Cranch,
128.) Various other cases might be adduced to the same
effect. Governed by the above principles, whose soundness
will scarcely be doubted, I proceed to inquire wherein the existing legislation of New York is in conflict with the Constitution, or with any regulation of Congress established under the
authority of that instrument. Whilst, with respect to the paramount authority in Congress to regulate commerce with for-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

497

Passenger Cases. -Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

eign nations and amongst the several States, (with the exceptions and qualifications of internal commerce and of regulations
necessary for the health and security of society,) there appears
to have been great unanimity everywhere amongst all persons,
much diversity of opinion has existed amongst members of this
tribunal as to another characteristic of this grant to Congress,
namely, as to whether it implies an exclusiveness which necessarily denies and fo.bids, apart from actual or practical collision
or interference, every thing like the power of commercial regulation on the part of the States.
To collate or comment upon these various opinions would
here be a work of detail and curiosity rather than of utility
A reference to them is no further necessary than to remark,
that their preponderance is against the position of exclusiveness
in the sense above mentioned, or in any acceptation beyond an
actual interference or an unavoidable and essential repugnance
in the nature of the separate State and Federal action.
And still more would an examination of these opinions be
useless, if, indeed, it would not be irregular, since the decision
at the last term but one of this court, upon- the license laws' of
Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and New Hampshire, reported in
5 Howard, 504, in which decision the preceding cases upon
this subject were reviewed, and the character of exclusiveness
in the power delegated to Congress repelled and denied. It
was my purpose, with this general reference to the decisions of
this court, to pass from the. point of exclusiveness in the power

of Congress over commercial regulations to other questions involved in the present cause, but certain positions just confidently stated, from the bench seem to require a pause in my
progress, long enough to show the inconsistency of th~se positions with the Constitution, - their direct conflict, indeed, with
themselves. Thus, in the argument to 'sustain the exclusiveness of the commercial power in Congress, it has been affirmed
that, the powers of the Federal government being complete, and
within the scope of their design and objects admitting of no
partition, the State governments can exercise no powers affecting subjects falling within the range of Federal authority,
actual or potential, or in subordination to the Federal government, yet it is remarkable that this assertion has been followed
in the same breath by the concession, that the pilot laws are,
to some extent, regulations of commerce, and that pilot laws,
though enacted by the States, are constitutional, and are valid
and operative until they shall be controlled by Federal legislation.
Again the very language of the Constitution may be appealed to for the recognition of powers to be exercised by the
42 *

498

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases. -Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

States, until they shall be' superseded by a paramount authority
vested in the Federal government. Instances of these are the
powers to train the militia, to lay duties or imposts on imports
or exports, so far as this shall be necessary to execute the inspection laws, and the provision in the fourth section of the
first article of the Constitution, declaring that the times, places,
and manner of holding elections for senators and representatives shall be prescribed in each State by the legislature thereof, subject to .the power of Congress at any time to alter such
regulation. Here, then, are examples put by the Constitution
itself, which wholly overthrow this idea of necessity for universal exclusiveness in the investiture of Federal power, examples surely not of minor importance to any which can be derived from the ordinary exigencies of trade. I must stop here,
too, long enough to advert to a citation which has been made,
in support of the ideaof exclusive commercial power, from t~he
opinion of the late Mr. Justice Baldwin, in the case.of Groves
v. Slaughter, 15 Peters, 511, With regard to this opinion, it
would seem to be enough to deprive it of binding influence as
authority, to remark that it was a: dissent by a single judge,
and this opinion should have still less weight here or elsewhere, when it shall be understood to have asserted the extraordinary doctrine that the States of this Union can have no
power to prohibit the introduction of slaves within their terntory when carried thither for sale or traffic, because the power
to regulate commerce is there asserted to reside in Congress
alone. ,It may safely be concluded, I think, that the justice
who cites, with seeming approbation, the opinion of Mr. Justice
Baldwin, will hesitate to follow it to the eccentric and startling.
conclusion to which that opinion has attained.
In opposition to the opinion of Mr. Justice Baldwin,. I will
place the sounder and more orthodox views of Mr. Justice
Story upon this claim to exclusive power in Congress, as expressed in the case of Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 48, with
so much clearness and force as to warrant their insertion
here, and which must strongly commend them to e-ery constitutional lawyer. The remarks of Justice Story are these "Questions of this nature are always of great importance and
delicacy
They involve interests of so much magnitude, and
of such deep and permanent public concern, that they cannot
but bie approached with uncommon anxiety
The sovereignty
of a State in the exercise of its legislation is not to be impaired,
unless it be clear that it has transcended its legitimate authority, nor ought any power to be sought, much less 16 be adjudged, in favor of the'United States, unless it be clearly within the reach of its constitutional charter. Sitting here, we are

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

499

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

not at liberty to add one jot of power to the national government beyond what the people have granted by the Constitution, and, on the other hand, we are bound to support the
Constitution as it stands, and to give a fair and rational scope
to all the powers which it clearly coltains. The Constitution
containing a grant of powers in many instances similar to
those already existing in the State governments, and some of
these being of vital importance to State authority and State
legislation, it is not to be admitted that a mere grant of such
powers in affirmative terms to Congress doesper se transfer an
exclusive, sovereignty on such subjects to the latter. On the
contrary, a reasonable interpretation of that instrument necessarily leads to the conclusion, that the powers so granted are
never exclusive of similar-power4 existing in the States, unless
where the Constitution has expressly in terms given an exclusive power to Congress, or the exercise of a like power is Frohibited to the States, or there is a direct repugnancy or incompatibility in the exercise of it by the States. In all other
cases not falling within the classes already mentioned, it seems
unquestionable that the States retain concurrent authority with
Congress, not only upon -the letter an& spirit of the eleventh
amendment of the Constitution, but upon the soundest principles of general reasoning. There is this reserve, however, that,
in cases of concurrent authority, where the laws of the States
and of the Union are in direct and manifest collision on the
same subject, those of the Union, being the supreme law of the
land, are of paramount authority, and State laws so far, and so
far only, as such incompatibility exists must necessarily yield.
Such are the general principles by which my judgment is
guided in every investigation on constitutional points. I do
not know that they have ever been seriously doubted. They
commend themselves by their intrinsic equity, and have been
amply justified by the opinions of the great men under whose
guidance the Constitution was framed, as well as by the practice of the government of the Union. To desert them would
be to deliver ourselves over to endless doubts and difficulties,
and probably to hazard the existence of the Constitution
itself." Here, indeed, is a commentary on the Constitution
worthy of universal acceptation.
As the case of Gibbons v. Ogden has been much relied on
in the argument of these cases, and is constantly appealed to
as the authoritative assertion of the principle of excl-isiveness
in the power in Congress to regulate commerce, it is proper
here to mqire how far the decision of Gibbons v. Ogden
affirms this principle, so often and so confidently ascribed to it,
and after all that has been said.on this subject, it may be mat-

500

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. JZustice Daniel's Opinion.

ter, of surprise to learn, that the court, in the dedision above
mentioned, so far from, affirming. that principle, emphatically
disclaims all intention to pass upon it. It,is true that the
court, in speaking of the power to regulate commerce vested
in Congress by the Constitution, says, that, like all other powers
vested in Congress, "it is complete in itself, may be exercised
to its utmost extent, and acknowledges no limitations other
than are comprised by the Constitution." How far exclusiveness in its nature or in the modes of its exercise is iiidispensable to this completeness of the power itself, the court does not
say, but, as has been already remarked, declares its intention
not to speak on these topics. These are the words of the
court - "In discussing the question -whether this power is still
in the States, in the case under consideration, we may dismiss
from it the inquiry whether it is surrendered by the mere grant
to Congress, or is retained until Congress shall exercise the
power. We dismiss that inquiry, because it has been exercised,
and the regulations which Congress deemed it proper to make
are now in full operation. The sole question is,. Can a State.
regulate coamerce with foreign nations and among the States,
while Congress is regulating it?" And, in fine, upon this
question of exclusiveness, the case of Wilson v. The Blackbird
Creek Marsh Company affirms, -in language too explicit for
misapprehension, that the States may, by their legislation,
create what may be obstructions -of the means of commercial intercourse, subject to the controlling and paramount authority of Congress. The words of the court in the case last
mentioned are these. - 1 If Congress had passed any act which
bore upon the case, any act in execution of the power to regulate commerce, the object of which was to control State legislation over those small navigable creeks into which the tide
flows, and which abound throughout the lower country of the
Middle and Southern States, we should feel not much diffictlty
in saying that a State laW coming ih .conflict with such an act
would be void. But Congress has passed no such act. The
repugnancy of -the law of Delaware to the Constitution- is
placed entirely on its repugnancy to the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States, a
power which has not been so exercised as to affect the question. The act is not'in violation of this power in its dormant
state." (2 Peters, .252.)
I now proceed to inquire whether the exaction of one dollar
by New York from aliens arriving within her limits from
abroad by sea, can be denominated a regulation of commerce,
either according to the etymological meaning of tle;-word
commerce, or according to its application in common parlance.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

501

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

Commerce, from con -and merczs, critically signifies a mutual
selling or traffic, and in ordinary and practical acceptation it
means trade, bargain, sale, exchange, barter, embracing these
both as its means and its objects. Different and metaphorical significations of the term can doubtless be suggested by
ingenious imagmations. Thus, we read in a great poet of
"looks commercing with the skies", but this sublimated
application of the term would badly accord with the 'mews
of commerce in a mercantile sense, or with the utilitarian
spirit of this calculating and prosaic age..
Does the law of New York operate either directly or necessarily upon any one of these ingredients of commerce ? Does
it look to them at all? With regard to the emigrant, this law
institutes no inquiry either as to his pursuits, or his mtentioAs,
or his property. HR may be a philosopher, an agriculturist, a
mechanic, a merchant, a traveller, or a man of pleasure, he
may be opulent, or he may be poor, - none of these circumstances affect his admission. It is required, upon his entering
the State, that there be paid by or for him. a given sum, graduated upon a calculation of benefit to himself and to others
similarly situated with himself, -or, if you choose, upon a calculation of advantage to the 'State, but, under whatever aspect it is viewed, wholly irrespective of property or occupation. So far, then, as the emigrant himself is considered. this
imposition steers entirely clear of regulating commerce, in any
conceivable sense, it is literally a tax upon a person placing
himself within the sphere of the taxing power, and the nature
and character of the proceeding are in no wise changed where
payment shall be made by the master of the vessel acting as
the agent and on 'behalf of the emigrant. It would still be
purely an exercise of the great, indefeasible right of taxation,
which, it has been explicitly said by this court, would extend
to every subject. but for the 'restriction as to imports and exports imposed by the Constitution, a right, too, expressly declared to belong to a branch of power wholly different from
the power to regulate commerce, and forming no part of that
power. Thus, in the case of Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton,
201, this court, speaking of the power of laying duties or imposts on imports or exports, make use of the following lan-guage -" We think it very clear, that it is considered as a
branch of the taxing power. It is so treated in the first- clause
* Commerce, from eomand merr, which Vossmus derives from the Hebrew, to divide a part of his own for a part of another's, to exchange, to bargain and sell, to

trade or traffic, to have intercourse for purposes of traffic. Merehand, or merchant,
from merx or meres, contracted from metrcs, is by some derived from mercar, by
others from the Greek gpo , pars, quia res per partes venditur. To merchandto buy,
to trade, to traffic. - Rihdson's Dictionary.

502

SUPREME

COURT.

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniers Opinion.

of the eighth section. I Congress shall have power to lay and
collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises', and before commerce is mentioned, the rule by which the exertion of this
power must be governed is declared. It is that all duties, imposts, and excises shall be uniform. In a separate clause of the
enumeration, the power to regulate commerce is.given, as being
entirely distinct from the right to levy taxes and imposts, and
as being a new power not before conferred. The Constitution,
then, considers these two powers as substantive and distinct
from each other, and so places them in the enumeration it contains. The power of imposing duties on imports is' classed
with the power to levy taxes, and that seems to be its natural
place. But the power to levy taxes could never be considered
as abridging the right of the States on that subject, and they
might consequently have exercised it by levying duties on imports or exports had the Constitution contained no prohibition
on this subject, This prohibition, then, is an exception to the
acknowledged power of the States to levy taxes, not from
the qu-stionable power to regulate commerce." Again, in the
same case, p. 200, it is.declared that "there is no analogy between the power of taxation and the power to regulate commerce", that the powers are not the same, that there is
neither affinity nor resemblance between them (p. 198). It
follows ex necessitate from this language, that the right to
regulate commerce must mean something essentially distinct
and separate from the power to impose duties or taxes upon
imports, and that the latter might exist-independently of and
without the former. The assertion of the court here is too
clear and emphatic to be misapprehended, and it would seem
to follow by regular induction therefrom, that a tax directly
upon the master himself, in consideration of the emigrants
brought by him within the limits of the State, could not be
within the prohibition of the Constitution, unless those emigrants could in legal or in ordinary acceptation-be made to fall
within the meaning of the term mraports. This would be absolutely iiecessary, and by a different construction the authority of Gibbons v. Ogden would be wholly overthrown. It is
said, upon the authority of Gibbons v. Ogden, that commerce includes navgation, as a necessary means or instrument.
Let this, as a general proposition, be conceded, still it by no
means follows that namgation al'ways implies commerce, and
much less does it follow that the instruments of commerce,
simply because they may be instruments, either as agents or
as property, are to be wholly exempted from burdens incident
to all other subjects of social polity
I will not contend that
the master, his vessel, and his -mariners and passengers, are not

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

503

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

all subject to proper regulations of commerce enacted by Congress, the proposition I maintain is this that regulations of
commerce do not embrace taxes on any or on all the subjects
above named, exacted within the just sphere of the power imposing them. Thus, then, the assessment made by New York
is purely a tax, net a regulation of commerce, but it is not
a tax on imports, unless passengers can be brought within this
denomination, if they cannot, it is a tax. simply on persons
coming within the jurisdiction of the taxing power. And
who shall deny or control this sovereign attribute, when operating within its legitimate sphere? When and by whom shall
any restriction be put upon it beyond the point to which it has
been voluntarily and expressly conceded by the Constitution ?
And this point, it is said, by the decision of Gibbons, v. Ogden, is established singly and determinately in the prohibition
to impose taxes on imports. With regard to this essential and
sovereign power of taxation, it may be proper here to advert
to the caution with which it was granted, and the extreme
jealousy which was manifested, towards any and every apprehended encroachment upon it by the Constitution when it was
Against such dreaded encroachment
offered for adoption.
were pointed some of the most strenuous objections of the opponents of the new government. They insisted that revenue
was as requisite to the purposes of the local administrations as
to those of the Union, and that the former were at least of
equal importance with the latter to the happiness of the people, that it was therefore as necessary that the State governments should be able to command the means of supplying
their wants, as that the national government should possess
the like means in respect to the wants of the Union, and they
said that, as the laws of the Union were to become the supreme law of the land, and as the national government wasto
have power to pass all laws necessary for carrying into execution the authorities with which it was proposed to-vest it, the
national government might at any time abolish the taxes imposed for State objects, upon the -pretence of an interference
with its own. The objections just stated, and the feeling of
mistrust in which they had their origin, the advocates of the
Constitution found it indispensable to remove, hence it is
that in the Federalist we find several numbers of that able
work devoted particularly to the purpose of reconciling the existence of the power of taxation in the Federal government
with its possession and exercise on the part of the States, and
nothing can be more explicit than is the admission contained
in these papers of the independent and unqualified power in the
States in reference to this subject. In the thirty-second number'

SUPREME

COURT.

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

of the Federalist, the writer thus expresses himself -"
I am
willing here to allow, in its full extent, the justness of the reasoning -which requires that the individual States should possess
an independent and uncontrollable authority to raise their
own revenues for the supply of their own wants. And making this concession, I affirm (with the exception of duties on
imports and exports) they would, under the plan of the Conventioi, retain that authority in the most absolute and unqualified sense,, and that an attempt on the part of the national government to abridge them in the exercise of it would be
a violent assumption of power, unwarranted by any article or
clause of its Constitution."
Again, in the same number,
speaking with respect to the prohibition on the States from
imposing duties on imports, it is said -"
This restriction implies an admission, that, 'if it were not inserted, the States
would possess the power it excludes, ard.it implies a further
admission, that -as to all other taxes the authority of the
States remains undiminished." Such were the principles and
doctrines of the Constitution as admitted, nay, urged, by the
advocates for. its adoption, ahd it is thought that there is no
candid inquirer into the history of the times who will profess to
believe that, had their admission not been thus made and earnestly pressed, the Constitution could have been accepted by
the States. The contemporaneous interpretation thus given by
the very fabricators of the instrument itself, confirmed, as has
been shown, by the decision of Gibbons v. Ogden, is perhaps
more emphatically declared in the later decision of this court
in the case of the Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Peters, 561,
where the court expresses itself in the following language "That the taxing power is of vital importance, that it is essential to the existence of, government, are truths which it cannot be necessary to affirm. They are acknowledged and assented to by all. It would seem that the relinquishment of
such a power is never to be assumed.. We will not say that a
State may nbt relinquish it, that a consideration sufficiently
valuable to induce a partial release of 'it may not exist, but as
the whole community are interested in maintaining it undiminished, that community has a right to insist that its abandonment ought not to be presumed in a case in which the deliberate purpose of the State to abandon it does not appear."
Can it be admitted, then, - can it be established by any correct reasoning, - that this high sovereign attribute, pronounced
by this court to be of vital importance, and essential to the existence"of a government, must be yielded,.upon mere implication, to a theory based on no express authority, but on construction alone, - not recommended by superior utility, but

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

greatly embarrassing in practice the theory of exclusive power
an Congress to regulate commerce)
The inquiry next m order, and growing out of-the aforegoing
views, is this - Can the emigrant or passenger on whom the
tax is assessed, on his arrival within the State be properly denominated an import? It has been contended that he may,
because, according to the classical derivation of the term from
27hportare, or sn and porta, he has, like every thing else in the
ship, been brought un. The advocates of this etymological interpretation should be cautious of adopting it, since it might
implv too much, may lead to strange confusion, and ultimately
to conclusions directly adverse to those they would deduce
from it. Thus, if the alien passenger is an import, simply from
the fact of being brought into the State, will not the- master
and mariners also be imports, precisely for the same reason, although they may be natives and~inhabitants of, and merely returning to, the country and port at which the vessel arrives,
and thus, if imported, must be imported home, having equally
sustained, a short time previously, when temporarily leaving
that home, the character also of exports ? Again under this
interpretation a dilemma might arise as to whether the ship, as
she had been brought in, would not likewise be an import, or
whether the ship had imported the crew, or the crew the ship,
for although the latter would have been c6nducted into port by
the former, it would be literally true that they would have,
been brought in by her. These 'departures from the common
and received acceptation of language may give, rise to distinctions as astute as-those in Scriblerius upon the famous bequest
of Sir John -Swale of all his black and white horses, and equally useful with those either in the development of truth or the,
establishment of justice. But the strict etymologists have this
further difficulty to encounter. It is said by Livy, and by
Varro. in his book De Lingui LatinA, that the Romans when,
they laid out a town, as a religious ceremony observed on sucht
occasions, delineated its boundaries with a plough, and that
wherever they designed there should be a gate, they took uP
the plough and left a space. Hence the word porta, a gate, a"
portando aratrum. Those, then, who will insist upon etymological acceptation, necessarily place themselves, as importedr
within the gate, in other words, within the municipal authority of the State, and by consequence within the acknowledged operation of its laws. But such critical derivation cannot
be admitted as accordant either with common acceptation or
general experience, by these the term imports is justly applicable to articles of trade proper, -goods,
chattels, property,
subjects in their nature passive and having no volition, - not to
voG. Vw1.
43

506

SUPREME

COURT.

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

men whose emigration is the result of will,-and could not be
accomplished without their co~peration, and is as much their
own act as it is the act "of others, nay, much more so. The
conclusion, then, is undeniable, that alien passengers, rational
beings, freemen carrying into execution their deliberate intentions, never can, without a singular perversion, be classed with
the subjects of sale, barter, or traffic, or, in other words, with
imports.
The law of New York has been further assailed in argument,
as being an infraction of the fourteenth article of the treaty of
amity and commerce negotiated between Great.Britain and the
United States in the year 1794, by which article at is provided
that "there shall be between -all the dominions of his Majesty
in Europe, and the territories of the United States, a reciprocal
and perfect liberty of commerce and navigation. The people
and the inhabitants of the two countries shall have liberty-freely and securely, and without hindrance and molestation, to
come with their, ships and cargoes to the lafids, countries,
cities, ports, places, and rivers within the dominions and terntones aforesaid, and to enter into the same, to resort there, and
to remain and, reside there without any limitation of time, also
to hire and possess houses and warehouses for the purposes of
their commerce, and generally the merchants and traders on
each side shall enjoy the most complete protection and security
for their commerce, but subject always, as to what respects this
article, to the laws and statutes of the two countries respectively"
It has been insisted tjhat the article of the treaty just cited,
having stipulated that British subjects shall have liberty freely
and. securely, and without hindrance, to come with" their ships
and cargoes to the lands, countries, cities, ports, &c., and to
remain and reside for the purposes of their commerce, and the
second clause of the sixth article of the Constitution having
declared the Constitution and the laws of the United States,
made in pursuance thereof, and treaties made under the authority of the United States, to be the supreme law of the land, the
laws of New York, being in derogation of the fourteenth article
of the treaty of. 1794, are unconstitutional and void.
The
fourteenth article of the treaty of 1794, having expired by
limitation of time anterior *to the enactment of the statutes
complained- of, it cannot in: terms, as a part of that compact, be
broughf to.bear upon. this case. The same provision, however,
with the single variation that British subjects are placed on the
same footing -with. btlter foreigners who.-shall be admitted- to
enter Amehca- ports,. was renewed .by the first article of the
treaty of 1815, and bthe
third- article of the same treaty was

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

507

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

continued for four years. Subsequently, by the fourth article
of the Convention with Great Britain of 1818, it was extended
for ten years, and finally, by the first :article of the Convention
with the same power of the 6th of August, 1827, for an indefinite period, but liable to be terminated upon notice, from either
of the contracting parties, of twelve months from and after the
20th day of October, 1828. The fourteenth article of the
treaty of 1794, or rather its effect and meaning, with the variation above, engrafted on the treaty of 1815, may be considered
as subsisting at the present time. Before examining particularly the force of the objection founded upon this stipulation,
and of the effect sought to be imparted to it from the clause of
the Constitution adduced in its support, I cannot forbear to recur to my opinon expressed on a former occasion, it being the
view I still entertain as to what should be the interpretation of
the second clause of the sixth article of the Constitution. The
opinion referred to is as follows "This provisioit of the Constitution,. it is to be. feared, is
sometimes expounded without those qualifications which the
character of the parties, to that instrument, and its adaptation
to the purposes for which it was created, necessarily imply
Every power delegated to the Federal government must be expounded m coincidence with a perfect right in the States to all
that they have not delegated, in coincidence, too, with the
possession of every power and right necessary for theii existence and preservation, for it is impossible to believe that these
ever were, either in intention or in fact, ceded to the general
government. Laws of the United States, in order to be binding, must be within the legitimate powers vested by the Codtitution. Treaties, in order to be valid, must be made within
the scope of the same powers, for there can be no authority of
the United States, save what is derived mediately or immediately, and regularly and legitimately, from the Constitution. A.
treaty no more than an ordinary statute can arbitrarily cede
away any one right of a State, or of any citizen of a State."
(5 Howard, 613.)
Admittmgthis fourteenth article of the treaty to be in full
force, and that it purported to take from the State of New York
the right to tax aliens coming and commorant within her territory, it would be. certainly incompetent for such a purpose, because there is not, and never could have been, any right in any
other agent than her own government to bind her by such a
stipulation. In the next place, the right of taxation claimed
by New York can by no rational construction of it be made to
conflict with a correct comprehension of the treaty stipulations
in question. These neither express nor imply any thing more

508

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. JTustice Daniel's Opinion.

than security for free, but regular, legitimate commercial intercourse, between the people of the contracting nations, and exemption from burdens or restrictions inconsistent with such intercourse, for this was the sole purpose either contemplated or
professed. If these stipulations can be extended beyond this
meaning, and, under the terms "shall have liberty freely and
securely to come and'enter the ports of the country, and to remain and reside and to hire and occupy houses for the purposes
oftheir commerce," there can be claimed the right to withdraw, for an indefinite period, either the persons or the property of aliens from the power of taxation in the States, then
there is asserted for Congress or the executive the power of
exerting, through foreign governments and foreign subjects, a
control over the internal rights and polity of the States, which
the framers of'the Constitution and the decisions of this court,
already quoted,. have denied to the government in the exercise
of its regular domestic functions. It would be difficult to limit,
or even To imagine, the mischiefs comprised in such an interpretation of the treaty stipulations above mentioned. As one example of these, if it should suit the commercial speculations of
British subjectl to land within the territory of any of the States
cargoes of negroes from Jamaica, Hayti, or Africa, it would be
difficult, according to the broad interpretation of the commercial privileges conferred by those stipulations, to designate any
legitimate power in the States to prevent this invasion of their
domestic security According to the doctrines advanced, they
could neither repulse nor tax the nuisance.
The argument cons ructed by counsel and by some of the
judges upon the provisions of the act of Congress authorizing
the importation of the tools of mechanics, their clothing, &c:,
free from duties, presents itself to my mind as wanting in
logical integrity, and as utterly destructive of positions which
those V*ho urge this argument elsewhere maintain. The exemption allowed by Congress can correctly be made to signify
nothing more-than this that the general government will not
levy duties on the private effects of certain classes of persons
who may be admitted into the country. But, by any rule of
common sense, can this exemption be made to signify permission to those persons to land at all events in the States? It asserts or implies no such thing,,much less does it convey a command, or the power to issue a command, to the States to admit
them. Must not this benefit of exemption from dutmes be always in enjoyment subordinate to and depend.nt upon the
right of.he owner of the property exempted to enter the c6untry? This is inevitable, unless it be contended that a, mere
forbearance to exact duties on the property is identical with

JANUARY TERM, 1849.
Passenger Cases.-Mi.

Justice Daniel's Opir

509
u.

ordering the admissiori of its owner, thus making the man the
incident of the property, and not the property that of the man,
-a reductio rn absurdum, which cannot be escaped from by
those who deduce the right of admission from the act of Congress. But are those who assume this ground aware that it is
destructive of other positions which they themselves have not
only conceded, but even insist up.on? They have admitted
the power or right of self-preservation in the States, and, as a
means of securing this right, the power of excluding felons,
convicts, paupers, and persons infected, but according to this
argument, based upon the acts of Congress and on the treaty
stipulations, for free access and commorancy,. all must be permitted to land and to remain, for these acts of. Congress and
treaty stipulations contain no exceptions in favor of the safety
of the States, they are general, and in their terms ride over
all such considerations as health, morals, or security amongst
the people of the States. This argument cannot be maintained. The true interpretation of the act of Congress referred
to is this tools, clothing, and personal property of mechanics, are goods, chattels, imports, in the known and proper sense
of the.term -imports, Congress, having under the Constitution
the power to impose duties on these, possess the correlative
right of exempting them from duties, this they have done,
and nothing beyond this. Congress.have not pretended to declare permission to the mechanic, or to any other description of'
person, directly, to come into the States, because they have no
such direct power under the Constitution, and cannot assume
or exercise it indirectly
I will now consider the- second head of objection to the
legislation of New York, as propounded in the division stated
in the commencement of this opinion, namely, the alleged right
of Congress to regulate exclusively the admission of aliens, as
a right comprehended within the commercial power, or within
some other implication in the Constitution.
Over aliens, qua aliens, no direct authority has been delegated
to Congress by the Constitution. Congress have the right to
declare war, and they are bound to the duty of repelling invasions. They have the power, too, to establish a uniform
rule of naturalization. By an exercise of the former power,
Congress can place in the condition of alien enemies all who
are under :bllegiance to a nation m open war with the United
States, by an exercise of the second, they can extend to alien
friends the common privileges of citizens. Beyond these predicaments put by the Constitution, and arising out of the law
of nations, where is the power in Congress to deal with aliens,
as a class, at all ' and much more the power, when falling with43 *

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

in neither of the aforegoing predicaments, to invite them to or
to repel them from our shores, or to prescribe the -terms on
which, in the first instance, they shall have dcess to, and, if
they choose, residence within, the several States, - and this, too,
regardless of the considerations either of interest or safety
deemed important by the States themselves? The Constitution, confessedly, has delegated no such direct power to Congress, and it never can be claimed as auxiliary to, that which,
in a definite -and tangible form, can nowhere be found within
that instrument.
The power to regulate the admission, as implied in the right
of banishment or deportation, of aliens, not the citizens or subjects of nations in actual war with the United States, was at
one -period of our history assumed by the Federal government,
and a succinct review of the arguments by which this pretension was sought to be sustained must expose its absolute
fallacy
Congress, it was insisted, could exert this power under the
law of nations, to which aliens are properly amenable. To this
it was -answered, that, under the law of nations, aliens are responsible only for national offencees,.- offences in which their
nation bears a part, they are then alien enemies. That alien
friends, on the other hand, owe a temporary allegiance to the
government under which they reside, and for their. ndividual offences committed against the laws of that government
they are responsible, as other members of the community, to
the municipal laws.
Again, it was asserted that the right was vested in Congress
under the power to make war, ahd under the power and the
duty to prevent invasion. The obvious refutation of this argument was furnished in the reply that alien friends could not
be the subjects of war (public .national-conflict), nor in any
sense the instruments of hostile- invasion, such invasion -being
an operation of war. Neither could they fall within the power
vested by the Constitution to grant letters of marque -and reprisal, as an equivocal authority partaking of the characters of
war and peace, "reprisal being a seizure of foreign persons
and property, with a view. to obtain that justice for injuries
done by one state or its members, for which..a refusal of the
aggressors requires such a tesort to force under the law of nations. It must be considered as an abuse of words to call the
removal of persons from a-country a seizure or a reprisal on
them, nor is the distinction to be overlooked between reprisal
on persons within the country, and under the faith of its laws,
and on persons out of the country" (Madison's Report.) It
may, then, be correctly-affirmed, that by no direct delegation of

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

511

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

power by the Constitution, - not by the power to declare war,
not by the power to make reprisals, not by the more general
power to punish offences against the laws of nations, nor by
the power and duty of repelling invasion, - has the right
been given to Congress to regulate either the admission or the
expulsion of alien friends. I~oes such a right result from any
rational or necessary implication contained rn-the Constitution?
We find that, even anterior to the adoption of this instrument,
attempts were made to ascribe to it the delegation of such a
power by the ninth section of the first' article, and this ascription was strenuously urged as a reason against its adoption.
The objection, whether fairly or tncandidly urged, was founded, no doubt, upon some ambiguity of language of the ninth
section, an ambiguity perfectly explained by contemporaneous
exposition, and by the written history of its progress and ultimate adoption. Let us see how this section has been interpreted at its date by those who bore the chief part in the
formation of the Constitution, and who, to commend it when
completed to their countrymen, undertook and accomplished an
able and critical exposition of its every term. We shall see,
by the almost unanimous declaration of these sages, that the
clause and article in question was intended to apply to the
African slave-trade, and to no other matter whatever. Thus,
in the forty-second number of the Federalist, it is said by Mr.
Madison, speaking of the section and article in question -" 1 It
were doubtless to be wished that the power of prohibiting the
importation of slaves had not been postponed until the year
1808, or rather that it had been suffered to have immediate
operation. But it is not difficult to account, either for this
restriction on the general government, or for the manner in
which the whole clause' is ex'pressed. It ought to be considered as a great point gained in favor of humanity, that a
period of twenty years may terriinate for ever within these
States a traffic which has so long and so loudly upbraided the
barbarism of modern policy." Again he says, - "Attempts have
been made to pervert this clause into an objection against the
Constitution, by representing it on one side as a criminal toleration of an illicit practice, and on another, as calculated to
prevent voluntary and beneficial emigrations from Europe to
America. I mention these misconstructions, not with a view
to give them an-answer, -for they deserve none, - but as specimens of the mainer- and spirit in which some have thought
fit to conduct their opposition to the. proposed government."
Before proceeding farther with the history of this article,
it will be well to contrast the view of its scope and objects, as
given in the quotation just made from' the Federalist. 'with the

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

arguments of the counsel who press this article as evidence of
an intention to vest in Congress the sole power of controlling
the., admission of aliens, subsequently, at least, to the year
1808. It is strenuously urged by them,. that the introduction
of aliens has always been accordant with the policy of the
government, and so highly promotive of advantage to the country in clearing and cultivating its forests, and increasing its
physical strength, that the power of interfering with these important objects should not be subjected to the hazard of State
abuses, but that they should be 'intrusted to the Federal government alone. Yet the learned counsel will be somewhat surprised to hear that the migration or importation he so zealously
advocates is proved (by contemporaneous authority, on which
he rests his argument) to be "an unnatural traffic, which has so
long and so loudly upbraided the barbarism of modern policy ";
and that 11it ought to be regarded as a great point gained in
favor of humanity, that a period of twenty years might terminate it for ever in these States." For such, and such only,
is the- migration limited to the States for twenty years, by the
ninth section of the fourth article, on which counsel found
themselves, such only the migration over which the Constitution has given power to Congress, as the natural meaning of
the section signifies, and which alone it.was intended to convey, as we are told by those who framed it.*
If the history of the ninth section of article fourth be traced.
in the proceedings of the Convention, from its introduction
into that body until finally moulded and: engrafted upon the
Constitution (3 Madison Papers, from p. 1388 to p. 1673), it
will be found that not one member of the Convention ever
treated this section in other terms, or as designed for any other
purpose', than as a power specially given to Congress by that
section alone to abolish the foreign slave-trade from the' period
limited by that section, with the exception of a single observation of Colonel Mason of Virginia, that the provision as it
stood might be necessary in order to prevent the introduction
of convicts, but not pretending to extend the power of Congress beyond these and the foreign slave-trade.
* 3 Madison Papers, August 21st; 1787. 1. Proposition by Mr. Martin against
article 7. Motion to exclude slave-trade (Vol. III. p. 1388). Mr. Rutledge, Mr.
Ellsworth, and Mr. Pinckney, all opposed to Mr. Martm's motion (pp. 1388 and
1389). August 22.- Mr. Sherman, though against slave-trade, was opposed to
taking it from the States (p. 1390). Colonel Mason thought it immoral and dangerous, and was for its immediate abolition (pp. 1390, 1391). Mr. Ellsworth opposed to interference; if it was so immoral as to require interference, they ought to
abolish it, and free all slaves (p. 1391), that slaves were necessary, and must be
imported for ue in the si.ckly rice-swamps of South Carolina and Georgia (p. 1392).
Pi.
'inckney, General Pinckncy, Mr. Baldwin, Mr. Wilson, Mr. Gerry, Mr. Dickinson, Mr. Williamson, Mr. Rutledge, Mr. Sherman, (Vol. III. pp. 1392-1397,) all
treat of this article as applicable only to the slave-trade.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.
Passenger Cases. -Mr.

513

Justice Daniel's Opinion.

The migration or importation embraced in it is in the debates uniformly and 'plainly called the slave-trade by certain
Southern States, which the Convention would have abolished
by the Constitution itself, but for the avowed necessity of
propitiating those States by its toleration for twenty years.
There, too, it will be seen that Mr. Gouverneur Morris, with
a frankness and sagacity highly creditable, objected to the
.ambiguous language in which the section was proposed and
adopted. He said "he was for making the clause read at
once, 'the importation of slaves' into North Carolina, South
Carolina, and Georgia shall not be prohibited,, &c. -This, he
said, was most fair, and would avoid the ambiguity by which,
under-the power with regard to naturalization, the libertyreserved to the States might be defeated. He wished it to be
known, also, that this part of the Constitution was a compliance with those States."
(3 Madison Papers, 1427 and
1478.) A portion of the Convention objected to an open
sanction of the slave-trade upon the very face of the Constitution, whilst the Southern States would not yield their views
of their own interests or necessities, hence, in the spirit, of
compromise, the section was unfortunately permitted to retainthe ambiguity objocted to .by Mr. Moms, and 'hence, too, the
color given for those misconstructions of the restriction on the
general government, end the manner in which it is expressed,
so decidedly reprehended in the number of the Federalist. already quoted. This ninth section of the fourth article of the
Constitution has, on a former occasion, been invoked in support
of the power claimed for the Federal government over alien
friends. The supporters in Congress of the alien law, passed
in 1798, endeavoured to draw from this very section a justification of that extraordinary enactment, and as their argument
deduced from it is, perhaps, as cogent as any likely to be propounded at this day, it may be properly adverted to as a fair
sample of the pretension--udvanced in- this case, and of the
foundation on whidh it seeks to plant itself. The argument
alluded to was by a committee of the House of Representatives, and is in these words -. "That as the Constitution hias
given to the States no power to remove aliens during the period
of the limitation under consideration, in the mean time, on the
construction assumed, there would be no authority in the
country to send away dangerous aliens, which cannot be admitted." Let the comment of a truly great man on these
startling heresies expose their true character. "It is not," says
Mr. Madison. "1the inconclusiveness of the general reasoning
on this passage which chiefly calls the attention to it. It. is
the principle assumed by it, that the powers held by the States

SUPREME

COURT.

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion..

are given to them by the Constitution of the United States, and
the inference from this principle, that the powers supposed to
be necessary, which are not so given to the State governments,
must reside-in the government of the United States. The respect which is felt for every portion of the constituted authorities forbids some reflections which this singular paragraph
might excite, and they are the more readily suppressed, as it
may be presumed with justice, erhaps, as well as candor, that
inadvertence may have had its share in the error. It would be
unjustifiable delicacy, nevertheless, to pass ly so portentous a
claim without a -monitory notice of the fatal tendency with
which it would be pregnant." (Madison's Report.) The assertion of a general necessity for permission' to the States from
the general government, either to expel frotn, their confines
those who are mischievous or dangerous, or to admit to hospitality and settlement whomsoever they may deem it advantageous to receive, carries with it either a denial to the former, as
perfect original sovereignties, of the right of self-preservation, or
presumes a concession to the latter; the creature of the States,
wholly incompatible with its exercise.
This authority over alien friends belongs not, then, 'to the
general government, by any express delegation of power, nor
by necessary or proper implication from express grants. The
claim to it is 'essentially a revival of what public sentimentso generally and decisively condemned as a usurpation in the
alien law of 1798 , and however this revival may at this time
be freed from former imputations of foreign antipathies or partialities, it must, nevertheless, be inseparable from-nay. it
must be the inevitable cause of far greater evils - jealousy, illfeeling, aud dangerous conflict between the members bf this
bonfederacy and their common agent. '
Thus far I have preferred to consider this case as depending
rather upon great fundamental- principles, inseparable from- the
systems of government under which' this country is -placed,
than: as dependent upon forms of pleading, and conclusions deducible from those forms. But judging of the case in the latter aspect as moulded by those forms,.it seems to fall directly
-within the operation of a precedent settled by this court, which
must, if regarded, decide the law to be with the defendant *in
error. By th6,- second',count in the declaration, it is averred
that the defendant below .(the plaintiff in error), being the master of the ship Henry Bliss, in violation of the -laws of New
York, brought into the port of New York, and there actually
landed the same, two hundred and ninety-five passengers, the
demurrer to the declaration, admitting the truth of these averments, places the lncale of the origin, as well as the infraction

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

515

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

of the obligation declared on, within the municipal authority
of the State, and without the pale of the authority of Congress
to regulate commerce with foreign nations. In this view, this
case is brought, not only within the reasoning, but within the
literal terms, of the decision of The City 6f New York v. Miln,
and must be sustained upon.the authority of that decision, were
there no other grounds on which it could be supported. But
as it is manifest that this case involves the high,. and what this
court has.asserted (with the single exception of taxes on "importsi) t6 be the perfect and undiminished and indispensable,
power-of taxation in-a sovereign State, it would have seemed
to me a species of delinquency not to make that right the
prominent and controlling subject of investigation an decision,
or to have forborne to vindicate it in its full integrity.
Between this case and that of Norris v. The City of Boston,
there are some shades of difference, they are such, however, as
by me are not regarded as essential, both the cases rest in
reality upon the right of taxation m the States, and as the
latter case has been examined with so much more of learning
and ability than I could have brought to its investigation, by
his Honor the Chief Justice, I shall content myself with de
laring my entire concurrence in his reasonings and conclusions
upon it.

It is my opinion that the judgment of the Court for the Tfial
of Impeachments and Correction of Errors in New York, and
the judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts,
should be affirmed.
NoTE. -In the opinions placed on file by some of the justices constituting the majority in the decision of this case,
there appearing to be positions and arguments wbhicf are not
recollected as having been propounded from the bench, and
which are regarded as scarcely reconcilable with the former
then examined and replied to by the minority, it becomes an
act of justice to the minority that those positions and arguments, now for the first time encountered, should not pass withotit comment. Such comment is called for, in order to vindicate the dissenting justices, first, from the folly of combating
reasonings and positions which do not appear upon the record,.
and, secondy..from the- delinquency of seeming -to recoil from
exigencies, with which, however they may be supposed to
have existed, the dissenting justices never were in fact confronted. It is called for by this further and obvious consideration, that, should the modification or retraction of opinions delivered in court obtain in practice, it would result in this palpable irregularity; namely, that opinions, which, as those of the

516

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

court, should have been premeditated and solemnly pronounced
from the bench antecedently to the opinions of the minority,
may m reality be nothing more than criticisms on opinions delivered subsequently in the order of business to those of the
majority, or they may be mere afterthoughts, changing entirely
the true aspect of causes as they stood in the court, and presenting through the published reports what would not be a true.
history of the causes decided.
Examples of diversity between the opinions in this cause,
comprehended as they were delivered in court, and as subsequently modified, will now be adverted to. The first is found
in the solecism, never propounded, perhaps, from any tribunal,
- one, indeed, which it might have been supposed no human
imagination, not the most fruitful in anomalies, could ever
conceive,-" that the action of the Federal government by
legislation and treaties is the action of the States and their inhabitants." If this extraordinary proposition can -be taken as
universally or as generally true, then State sovereignty, State
rights, or State existence even, must be less than empty names,
and the Constitution of the United States, with all its limitations on Federal power, and as it has been heretofore generally
understood to be -a special delegation of power, is a falsehood
or an absurdity It must be viewed as the creation of a power
transcending that which called it into existence, a power single,
universal, engrossing, absolute. Every thing in the nature of
civil or political rignt is thus ingulfed in Federal legislation,
and in the power of negotiating treaties. History tells us of an
absolute monarch who characterized himself and his authority
by the declaration, "I am the State." This revolting assertion
of despotism was, even in. the seventeenth century, deemed
wortl~y of being handed down for the reprobation of the friends
of civil and political liberty What, then must be 'thought in
our day, and in future time, of a doctrine,. which, under a government professedly one of charter exclusively, claims beyond
the terms of that charter, not merely thp absolute -control of
civil and political rights, but the power to descend to and
regulate ad libitum the private and personal concerns of life.
Thus the ground now- assumed in terms for the Federal government is, that the power to regulate commerce means still
"more especially" the power to regulate "personal intercourse." Again, it is asserted that the Federal government,
m the regulation of commerce, "may admit or may xefuse foreign intercourse partially or entirely"
If those who resort to
this term entercourse mean merely commercial transactions as
generally understood, their arg!ment is an unmeaning variation
of words, and is worth nothing. They obtain by the attempt-

JANUARY
Passenger Cases.

-M

TERM, 1849.,,

517

r. Justice Daniel's Opinion.

ed substitution no new power. They have the power to regu-late commerce, and nothing beyond this. Commercial intercourse is simply commerce. But ifthey adopt the word intercourse singly, in its extended and general acceptation, and
without the proper qualifying adjunct, they violate the text
and the meaning of the Constitution, and grasp at powers
greatly beyond the scope of any authority legitimately connlected with commerce as well understood. The term commuerce, found in the text of the Constitution, has a receivedr
established, and adjudged acceptation. The wise men who
framed the Constitution designed it for practical application.
They preferred, therefore, to convey its meaning in language
which was plain and familiar, and avoided words and phrases
which were equivocal, unusual, or recondite, as apt sources of
future perplexity
They well understood the signification of
the word intercourse. and knew it was by no means synonymous with the word commerce, they shunned, therefore, the
ambiguity and seeming affectation of adopting it, in order.4o
express their meaning when speaking of commerce.
This
word intercourse, nowhere found in the Constitution, implies
infinitely more than the word commerce Intercourse ,"with
foreign nations, amongst -the States;, and with the Indian tribes."
Under this language, not only might namional; commercial, or
political intercourse be comprehended, but every conceivable
intercourse between the individuals of )ur own country and
foreigners, and afnongst the citizens of the different States,
might be transferred to the Federal government. And thus
we see that, with-respect to intercOurse with aliens, in time of
peace, too, it is now'broadly asserte& that all power has been
vested exclusiveiy in the Federal government. The investiture of power in Congress under this term would not be limited
by this construction to this point. It would extend, not only
to the right of going abroad to foreign countries, and of requiring licenses and passports for that purpose, it would embrace
also the right of transit for persons and property between the
different States of the Union, and the power of regulating
highways and vehicles of transportation. We have here a few
examples of the mischiefs incident to the doctrine which first
interpolates into the Constitution the term intercourse in lieu
of the word commerce contained in that instrument, and which
then, by an arbitrary acceptation given to this term, claims for
Congress whatsoever it may be thought desirable to coidprise
within its meaning. By permitting such an abuse, every limit
may be removed from the power of the Federal government,
and no engine of usurpation could be more conveniently. devised than the introduction of a favorite word which the intervoL. v11.
44

518

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

polator would surely have as much right to interpret as to introduce. This 'would be fulfilling almost to the letter the account in the Tale of a Tub, of Jack, Peter, and Martin engaged in the interpretation of their father's will. Once let the barriers of the Constitutioh, be removed, and the march of abuse
will be onward and without bounds.
Mr. Justice NELSON, dissenting.
NoRIus

V. CITY OF BOSTON, AN

SMITH V. TuRNE .

I have examined particularly the opinion of the Chief Justice
delivered in these cases of Smith v. Turner, and Norris v. The
City of Boston, and have concurred, not only in its conclusions,
but in the grounds and principles upon whiclf it is arrived at;
and am in favor of affirming the judgments in both cases.
*Mr. Justice WOODBURY, dissenting.

NoRms

V. CITY OF BOSTON, AND SMITH v. TURNER.

In relation to the case-6f Turner v.. Smith, from New York,
I wish merely to express my non-concurrence with the opinions
pronounced by the majority of this court. But standing more
intimately connected. wiih the case of Norris v. Boston, by my
official duties in the First Circuit, I feel more obliged to state, in
some detail, the reasons for my opinion, though otherwise con-tent to-acquiesce silently in the views expressed by the 'Chief.
Justice; and though not flattering myself with being able, after
the elaborate discussions we have just heard, to present much
that- is either novel or interesting..
The portion of the statute of Massachusetts which in this
case is assailed, as most questionable in respect to its conformity
with the Constitution, is the third section. The object of that
is to forbid alien passengers to laud in any port in the State,'
until the master or owner of the vessel pays " two dollars for
each passenger so landing." The provisions in the other sections, ,and'especially -the second one, requiring indemnity for
the support of lunatics, idiots, and infirm persons on board Df
vessels before they are landed,.if they have been or are paupers,
seefn admitted by most persons to be a fair exercise of the
police powers of a State.
This claim of indemnity is likewise excused or conceded as
a piower which has long been- exercised by several of the,
Atlantic States in self-defence against the ruinous burdens
which would otherwise be flung upon them by the incursions
of paupers from abroad, and their laws are often as stringent
against the introduction of that class of persons from adjoining

'JANUARY

TERM, 18'19.

519

Passenger'Cases.-Mr. Justice Woqdbtry's Opinion.

States as from -foreign countries. (Revised Statutes of New
Hampshire, ch. 67, § 5; 5 Howard, 629.)
Such legislation commended in Massachu'setts early after our
ancestors arrived at Plymouth.- It first empowered the removal of foreign paupers. (See Colonial Charters and. Laws, 1639,
p. 173, and 1692, p. 252.) It extended next to-the requisition.
of indemnity from the master, as early as the year 1701. '(See
Statute of 13 Win. III., Ibid. 363.) But while it embraced
removals of paupers not settled in'the Colony, and indemnity
required from the master for the support of foreigners ifitroduced by sea, I do not think it assumed the special form used
in the third section of this statute, until the year 1837 after
the decision in the case of The City of New York v. Miln, 11
Peters, 107. .1 shall not, therefore, discuss further the provisions in the second section of the statute for, at all' events, the
requisitions of that section, if not by all admitted to be constitutional, are less objectionable than those of the third; and if
the last can be vindicated, the first must be, and hence the last
has constituted the burden of the arguments on both sides.
. It will be remembered that this third section imposes a condition on landing alien passenger.s, or, in"other words, levies a
toll or fee on the master for landing them, whether them paupers or not, and that the present action is to recover back the
money which has been collected from the master for landing
such passengers.
-After" providing, in the following words, that, 11when any
vessel shall arrive at any'port or harbour within the State, from
any port or. place without the same, with alien passengers on
board, the officer or officers whom.the mayor and aldermen of.
the city, or the selectmeA of the town, where it is proposed to
-land such passengers, are hereby authorized and required- to
appoint, shall go on. board such vessel and examine into the
condition of said passengers." The third section of the statute
declares that "no alien passenger, other than those spoken'of'
in the preceding section, shall be permitted to land, until the
master, owner, consignee, or agent of' such vessel shall pay to
the regularly appointed boarding officer the'sum of two dollars
for each passenger so landing; and the money so collected
shall be paid into the treasury of the city or town, to -be appropriated as the city or town may direct for the support of foreign
paupers."
It is conceded that the sum paid here on account of "1alien
passengers" was demanded of them, when 'coming in some
"v.essel," and was collected after she arrived at, a "port or harbour within the State." Then, and not till then, the master
was required to pay two dollars for each before landing, " to be.

520

SUPREME

COURT.

-Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

paid into the treasury of the city or town, to be appropriated
as the city or town may direct for the support of foreign pauI
pers. 3
By a subsequent law, as the foreign paupers had been made
chargeable to the State treasury, the balances, of this fund in
the- different towns were required to be transferred to that
treasury.
After careful examination, I-am not satisfied that this exercise of power by a State is incapable of being sustained as a
matter of right, under one or all of three positioris.
1st. That it is a lawful exercise of the police power of the
State to help to maintain its foreign paupers.
2d. If not, that it may be regarded as justified by the sovereign power which every State possesses to prescribe the conditions on which aliens may enjoy a residence within, and the
protection of, the State.
3d. Or it may be justified under the municipal power of the
State to inpose taxes within its limits for State purposes. I
think, too, that this power has never been ceded to the general government, either expressly or by implication, in any of
the grants relied on for that purpose, such as to lay duties on
-imports, or to.prohibit the importation of certain persons after
the year 1808, or to regulate commerce.
Under the first ground of vindication for the State, the,
whole statute was most probably enacted with the laudable
design to obtain some assistance in maintaining humanely the
large number of paupers, and persons likely 'soon to become
paupers,'coming to our shores by means furnished by the municipal authorities in various parts of Europe. (See 3 Ex. Doe.
of 29th Congress, 2d Session, No. 54.)
Convicts were likewise sent, or preparing to be sent, hither from some cities on
the Continent. (Ibid.)
A natural desire, then, would exist, and would appear by
some law, to obtain, first, indemnity against the support of emigrants actually paupers, and likely at once to become chargeable ; and, secondly;-funds to maintain such as, though not actually paupers, would probably become so, from this class of aliens.
It is due to the cause of humanity, as well as the public
economy of the State, "that-.the maintenance of, paupers,
whether of foreign or domestic origin, should be well provided for. Instead of being whipped or carted back to their
places of abode or settlement, as'was once the practice in
England and this .country in respect to them; or, if aliens,
instead of being reshipped over a 'desolate waste of ocean,
they are to be treated with kindness and relieved or maintained. But still, if feasible, it should, in justice be at the

JANUARY TERM, 1849..

521

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

expense of those introducing them, and introducing the .evils
which may attend on them. This seems to have been the attempt in this statute, and as such was a matter of legitimate
police in relation to paupers.
. But those persons affected by the third section not being
at the time actual paupers, but merely alien passengers, the e'x-.
pediency or right to tax the master for landing them does not
seem so clear, in a police view, as it is to exact indemnity
againmpt the support of those already paupers. Yet it is -not
wholly/without good reasons, so far as regards the master or
owner who makes a profit by-bringing into a State persons
having no prior rights there, and likely in time to add something to its fiscal burdens and the number of its unproductive
inhabitants.. He who causes this danger, and is the willing
instrument in it, and profits by it, cannot, in these views, object to the condition or tax imposed by the State, who may
not consider the benefits likely to arise from such a population
a full counterbalance to all the anticipated disadvantages and
contingencies. But the aspect of the case is somewhat different, looking at the tax as falling wholly on the passenger. It
may not be untrue, generally, that some portion of a burden
like this rests'eventually on the passenger, rather than the
master or owner. (Neil v. State of Ohio, 3 Howard, 741Yet it does not always; and it is the master, and
743.)
the owners through him, who complain in the present action, and not the passengers ; if it fell on the latter alone, thdy
would be likely, not only to complain, but to go in vessels to
other $tates where onerous conditions had not been imposed.
Supposing, however, the burden in fact to light on them, it
is in some, though a less degree, and in a different'view, as a
matter of. right, to be vindicated.
Were its expediency alone the question before us, some, and
among them myself; would be inclined to doubt as to the expediency of such a tax on alien passengers in general, not paupers or convicts. Whatever may" be their religion, whether
Catholic or Protestant, or their occupation, whether laborers,
mechanics, or farmers, the majority of them are believed to be
useful additions to the population of the New World, and since,
as weil as before our Revolution, have deserved encouragement
in their immigration by easy terms of naturalization, of voting,
of holding office, and all the nolitical and civil privileges which
their industry and patriotism have in so many instances shown
to--be usefully bestowed. (See Declaration of Independence ;
Naturalization Law; 1 Lloyd's Debates, Gales and Seaton's
ed., .p. 1147; Taylor v. Carpenter,- 2 Woodbury & Minot.)
If a design existed in any statute to thwart this policy, or if

44*

522

SU.PREME C'OURT.
.Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's 'Opinion.

-

such were its necessary consequence, the measure would be of
-very questionable expediency. But the makers of this law
may hare had no such design, and such does. not seem.to be
-the necessary. consequence of it, as large numbers of emigrants
still -c ontinue to arrive in Massachusetts when they would be
likely to ship for ports in other States where .no such law
exists, if this operated -on them- as a discouragement, and like
6ther taxes when felt, or when high, had become in some degree prohibitory. . The conduct of the State, too, in this measure, as a matter
of rightpis the only-question to be decided by us, and may be.a- very. different one from its expediency. Every sovereign
State. possesses the right t6 decide this matter of expediency
for itself, provided it has the power to control or govern the
subject. Our inquiry, therefore, relates merely to that power
or right in a State; and the grboind now under consideration
to support the exercise of it is her authority to prescribe terms,
in a -police view, to the entry into'her boundaries of persons
who are likely to become chargeable as paupers, and who are
aliens.
In this' view, as .conuected with- her police over pauperism,
and as a question of mere right, it may be fairly. done by imposing terms which, though incidentally making it more expensive for aliens to come here, are designed to maintain such
of them and, of their class as are likely, id many instances, ere
long to becote paupers in a strange country, and usually without 'sufficient means for support in case either of sickness, or
accident, or reverses in business. So it is not without justification that a class of passengers from whom much expense
arises in supporting pdupers should, though not at that moment
chargeable, advance something for this purpose at a time when
they are, able to contribute, and 'when alone it can with certainty be collected. ' (See New York v. Miln' 11 Peters, 156.)
When this is done in a law providing against the increase of
pauperism, and seems legitimately to be connected with the
subject, and when the -sum required of the master. or passenger
is not disproportionate to the- ordinary charge, there appears no
reason to regard it as any measure except what it professes to
be, - one connected with -the State police as to alien passengers, one connected with -the .support of paupers, and- one
designed neither to regulate commerce nor be a source of rev-.
enue for general purposes. (5. Howard, 626.)
The tax is now transferred to the State treasury, when collected, forilhe reason that the support .of foreign paupers is
transferred there; and this accords with an honest design to
collect the money only for that object.'

JANUARY TERM," 18.49.

, 523

Passenger Cases.'-Mr. Justice 'Woodbury's Opinion.
-The last year, so fruitful in immigration and its contagioUs
diseases of ship-fever and the terrific cholera, and the death of
so many from the, former, as well as the extraordinary expense
consequent from these causes, furnish a strong illustration that
the terms required are neither excessive nor inappropriate.
Theie are many other reusons showing that this is legitimately a police measure, and,'as such, competent for the State
to adopt. It respects the' character of those persons to come
within the limits of the. State, -it 'looks to the benefits and
burdens deemed likely to be connected with th'eir presence, it regards the privileges they may rightfully claim of relief,
whenever sick or infirm, though on shipboard, if wvithiu the
boundaries of the State, - it has an eye to the protection they
will humanely receive if merely in transitu through the State
to othei governments, and the burdens which, in case of disease
or accidents, without much means,'they may thus throw upon
the State. And the fund collected is expressly and wholly
applied, after deducting the expenses 6f its collection, to "the
support of foreign paupers."
A police measure, in common parlance, often relates to something connected with public morals; and .in that limited view
would still embrace the subject of pauperism, as this court
held in 16 Peters, 625. But in law, the- word police is much
broader, and includes all legislation for the internal policy, of a

Statc. (4 BI. Com., ch. 13.)
The police of the ocean belongs to Congress and the admiralty powers of the general gpvernment; but not the police
of the land or. of harbours.
(Waring v. Clarke, 5 Howard,
471.)
Nor is it any less a police measure because money, rather
than a bond of indemnity, is required as a condition of admission to protection and privileges. 'The payment of money is
sometimes imposed in .the nature of a toll or license fee, but it
'is still a matter of police. It is sometimes demanded in the nature of charges to cover actual, or anticipated expenses.' Such
is the case with. all quarantine charges. 'Substantially, too, it
is demanded under the indemnity given by the second section,
if the person becomes chargeable; and if that be justifiable, so
must be this ; the fact that one is contingent and the other absolute cannot affect their constitutionality. Neither is it of
consequence that the charge might be defrayed- otherwise, if
the State pleased, as from other taxes or other sources. This
is a matter entirely discretionary with the State. This might,
be done with respect to quarantine expenses or pilotage of vessels; yet the State, being the sole judge of what is most expedient in respect to this; can"legally impose it on the vessel, or

524

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

master, or passengers, rather than on others, unless clearly forbidden by the Federal Constitution. - And it can be none the
less a police measure than is a quarantine charge, because the
master or owner is required to- pay it, or even the -passengers,
rather than the other people of the State by a general tax.
Even to exclude paupers entirely has been held to be a police measure, justifiable in a State. (Prigg v. Pennsylvania,
16 Peters, 625; 5 Howard, 629.) Why, then, is not the
milder measure of a fee or tax justifiable in respect to those
alien passengers considered likely to become paupers, and *to
be applied, solely to the support of those who do become
chargeable from that class? And why is not this as much
a police'measure as the other ? If such measures must be ad-mitted to be local, are, of State cognizance, belong -to State
interests,, they clearly are among State rights.
Viewed as a mere police regulation, then, this statute does not
conflict with any constitutional provision. Measures which are
legitimately of a police character are not pretended to be ceded
anywhere in the Constitution to the general government in express terms; and as little 6ian it be argued that they are impliedly to be considered as ceded, if they be honestly and truly
police measures. Hence, in all the decisions of this tribunal
on the powers granted tb the general government, either expressly or by implication, measures of that character have been
regarded 'as 'not properly to be included. (License Cases, 5
Howard, 624; Baldwin's Views, 184, 188; cases cited in
The United States v. New Bedford Bridge, I Woodb. & Min.
423.).
Thus viewed, the case also comes clearly within the principles settled in New York v. Miln, 11 Peters, 102, and is fortified by the views in the License Cases, 5 Howard, 504. The
fact that the police regulation in the case of Miln was enforced
by a penalty instead of a toll, and in the License Cases by a
prohibition at times, as well as a fee, does not alter the principie, unless the mode of doing it in the present case should be
found, on further examination, before closing, to be forbidden to the States.
But if this justification should fail, there is another favorable view of legislation such as that of the third section of the
statute -of Massachusetts, which has already been suggested,
and which is so important as to deserve a separate consideration. It presents a vindication for it different from that of a'
mere police regulation, connected with the introduction or .upport of aliens, who are or may afterwvards-['ecorie paupers, andresults from the po'ver of every sovereign State -to impose such"
terms as she pleases on the admission or continuance of for-

JANUARY TERM,'-1849.

525

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

eigners within her borders. If this power can be shown i
exist, and it is in its nature and character a police power also,
then we have already demonstrated that the States can rightfull-pcontinue to exercise. it. But if it be not such a power,
and hence cannot be ranked under that title and enjoy the benefit of the decisions exempting police powers from control by
the general government, yet if it exists as a municipal rather
than a police power, and has been constantly exercised by the
States, they cannot be considered as not entitled to it, unless
they have clearly ceded it to Congress in some form or other.
First, then, as to its existence. The best writers on national
law, as well as our own decisions, show that this power of excluding emigrants exists in all states which are sovereign.
(Vattel, B. 1, ch. 19, § 231 ; 5 Howard, 525, 629; New York
v. Miln, 11 Peters, 142 ; Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16 Peters, 625;
and Holmes v. Jemlison, 14 Peters, 565.)
Those coming may be voluntary emigrants from other nations, or.travelling absentees, or refugees in revolutions, party
exiles, compulsory victims of power, or they may consist of
cargoes of shackled slaves, or large bands of convicts, or brigands, or persons with incendiary purposes, or imbecile paupers,
or those suffering from infectious diseases, or fanatics with
principles and designs more dangerous than either, or under
circumstances -of great ignorance, as liberated serfs, likely at
once, or soon, to make them a serious burden in their support
as paupers, and a contamination of public morals. There can
be no doubt, on principles of national law, of the right to prevent the entry of these, either absolutely or on 'such conditions
as the State may deem it prudent to impose. In this view, a
condition of the kind here imposed, on admission to land and
enjoy various privileges, is not so unreasonable, and finds vindication in the principles of public law the world over. (Vattel, B. 1, ch. 19, § 219, 231, and B. 2, ch. 7, 44 93, 94.)
In this aspect it may be justified as to the -passengers, on the
ground of protection and privileges sought by them in the
State, eiiher permanently or transiently, and the power of the
State to impose conditions before and while yielding it. When
we speak here or elsewhere of the right of a State to decide
and regulate who shall be its citizens, and on what terms, we
mean, of course, subject to ahy restraint on her power which
she herself has granted to the general government, and which,
instead of overlooking, we intend to examine with care before
closing.
It having been, then, both in Europe and America, a matter
of municipal regulation whether aliens shall or shall not -reside in any particular state, or even cross its borders, it follows

.526

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Ca ses.-Mr. Justice Woodbhurys Opinion.

that, if a sovereign state pleasesit may, as a matter of clear
right, exclude them entirely, or only when paupers or convicts,
(Baldwin's Views, 193, 194;) or only when slaves, or, what is
still-more common in America, in Free States as well as Slave
States, exclude 'colored emigrants, though free. As further
proof and illustration that this power exists in the States, and
has never been parted with, it was early exercised by Virginia
as to others than paupers, (1 B. Com., by Tucker, pt. 2, App.,
p. 33,) and it is now exercised, in one form or another, as to
various persons, by more than half the States of the Union.
(11 Peters, [42; 15 ib. 516; 16 ib. 625; 1 Brockenbrough,
434; 14 Peters, 568; 5 Howard, 629.)
Even the old Congress, - September 16th, 1788, recorfimended
to the States to pass laws excluding convicts; and they did
this, though after the new Constitution was adopted, and that
.fact announced to the country. "Resolved, That it be, and
it is hereby, recdmmended to the several'States to pass proper
laws for preventing the transportation of convicted malefactors
from foreign countries into the United States." (Journal of Congress for 1788,'p. 867.)
. But the principle goes further, and extends to the right to
exclude paupers, as well as convicts, by the States (Baldwin's
Views, 188, 193, 194);. arid Mr. Justice Story, in the case of
New 'York v. Miln, 11 Peters, '56, says as to the States, "I admit that they have a right to pass poor-laws, and laws to
prevent the introductiodof paupers into the States, under like
qualifications."
Many of the States also exercised this power, not only during
the Revolution, but after peace; and Massachusetts especially
did, forbiddiig the return of 'refugees, by a law in 1783, 'ch. 69.
Several of the' States had done the same as -to refugees. (See.
Federalist, No. 42.)
The first naturalization laws by Congress recognized this
old right in the States, and expressly provided that such persons could not become naturalized without the special consent
of those States 'which had prohibited their return. -Thus in
the first act:
"Provided, also, that no person heretofore
proscribed by any State shall.be admitted.a citizen as aforesaid,
except by an act of the*legislature of the State in which such
person was proscibed." . (March 26, 1790, 1 Stat. at Large,
104. See a similar proviso, to the third section of- the act of
29th January, 1795, 1'Stat. at Large, 415.)
The power given to Congress, as to naturalization geneially,
does not conflict with this question of taxing or excluding alien
passengers, as acts of naturalization apply to those aliens only
who have already resided here from two to five years, and not

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

527

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

to aliens not re.ident here at all, or not so long. (See acts of
1790, 1795, and 1800.)
And it is not a little remarkable, in proof that this power of
exclusion still remains in the States rightfully, that while, as
before stated, it has been exercised by various States in the
Union, -some
as to paupers, some as to convicts, some as to
refugees, some as to slaves, and some as to free blacks, - it
never has been exercised by the general government as to
mere aliens, not enemies, except so far as included in what are
called the Alien and Sedition Laws of 1798. By the former,
being "'An act conc 6 rning aliens," passed June 15th, 1798,.
(1 Stat. at Large, 571,) power was assumed by the general
government, in time of peace, to remove or expel them from the
country ; and that act, no less than the latter,, passed about a
month after, (Ibid. 596,) was generally denounced as unconstitutional, and suffered to expire without renewal; on -the ground,
among others assigned for it, that, if such a powet existed at
all, it wasin the States, and not in the general government,
nnless under the war power, and then against alien 'enemies
alone.' (4 Elliot's Deb. 581, 582, 586 ; Virginia Resolutions
of 1798.)
It deserves special notice, too, that, when it was exercised
on another occasion by the general government, not against
aliens as such, but slaves imported from abroad, it was in aid
of State laws passed before 1808, and in subordination to them
The only act ofCongress on this subject before 1808 expressly
recognized the power of the State alone then to'prohibit the
introduction or importation "of any negro, mulatto, or other
person of color," and punished it only where the States had.
(See act of Feb. 28, 1803, 2 Stat. at Large, 205.) In ftirther
illustration of this recognition and cooperation with the States,
it provided, in the third section, that all officers of the United
States should "notice and be goverhed by the provisions of the
laws now existing in the several States, prohibiting the admission or importation of any negro, mulatto, or other person
of coloi as- aforesaid; and they are hereby enjoined vigilantly
to .carry into effect said laws," i. e. the laws of the States.
(See 1 Brockenbrough, 432.)
The act of March 2d, 1807, forbidding the bringing in of
slaves, (2 Stat. at Large, 426,) was to take effect on the 1st of
January, 1808, aud was thus manifestly inteqded to carry into
operation the admitted power of prohibition by Congress, after
that date, of certain persons contemplated in the ninth section
of the first article, and as a branch of trade or commerce which
Congress, in other parts of the Constitution, was empowered to
regulate.
That act was aimed solely at the foreign slave-

528

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion:

trade, and not at the bringing in of any other persons than
slaves, and not as if Congress supposed that, under the ninth
section, it was contemplated to give it power, or recognize its
power, over any thing. but the foreign slave-trade. But of this
more hereafter.
It will be seen also in this, that the power of each State to
forbid the foreign slave-trade was expressly recognized as existing since, no less than before, 1808, being regarded as a concurrent power, and that by this section no authority was conferred on Congress over the domestic slave-trade, either before
or since 1808.
If the old Congress did not -suppose it was right and proper
for the States to act in this way on the introduction of aliens,
after the new Constitution went into operation, why did they,
by their resolution of 1787, recommend to the States to forbid the introduction of convicts from abroad, rather than recommend it to be done by Congress under the new Constitution ?
It is on this principle that a State has a right, if it pleases, to
remove foreign criminals, from within its limits, or allow them
to be removed by others. (Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Peters,
568.) Though the obligation to do so is, to be sure, an imperfect one, of the performance of which she is judge, and sole
judge, till Congress make some stipulation with foreign powers
as to their surrender (11 Peters, 391); and if States do not
surrender this right of affixing conditions to their ingress, the
police authdrities of Europe will proceed still further to inundate them with actual convicts and paupers, however mitigated
the evil may be at times by the voluntary immigration with.
the rest of many of the enterprising, industrious, and talented.
But if the right be carried beyond this, and be exercised with
a view to exclude rival artisans, or laborers, or to shut out all
foreigners, though persecuted and unfortunate, from mere naked
prejudice, or with a view to thwart any conjectural plicy of
the general government, this course, as before suggested, would
be open to much just criticism.
Again: considering the power to forbid as existing absolutely in a State, it is for the State where the power resides
to decide on what is sufficient cause for it,
- whether municill
or economical, sickness or crime ; as, for example, danger of
pauperism, danger to health, danger to morals, danger to property, danger, to public principles by revolutions and change of
government, or danger to religion. This power over the person is much less than that exercised over ships and merchandise under State quarantine laws, though the general government regulates, for duties and commerce, the ships and their

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

Passenger Cases.-Mr. ,ustice

529

Woodbury's Opinion.

cargoes. If the power be clear, however others may differ as
to the"expediency of the exercise of it as to particular classes
or in a particular form, this cannot impair the power.
It is well considered, also, that if the power to forbid or expel exists, the power to impose conditions of admission is inqluded as an incident or subordinate. Yattel (B. 2, ch. 8,
§ 99) observes, that, "Isince the lord of the territory may, whenever he thinks proper, forbid its being entered, he has, no doubt,
a power to annex what conditions he pleases to the permission
to enter." (Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Peters,-469, 615, Appendix.)
The usage in several States supports this view. Thus the
State of Maryland now, of Delaware since 1787, of Pennsylvania since 1818, if not before, and of Louisiana since 1842,
besides New York and Massarhusetts, pursue this policy in
this form. (7 Smith's Laws of Pennsylvania, 21 ; 2 Laws of
Delaware, 167, 995; 1 Dorsey's Laws of Maryland, 6, 10.)
And though it is conceded that laws like this in" Massachusetts
are likely, in excited times, to become of a dangerous character,
if perverted to illegitimate purposes, and though it' is manifestly injudicious to push all the p9wers possessed by the States
to a harsh extent against foreigners any more than citizens,
yet, in my view, it is essential to sovereignty to be able to
prescribe the conditions or terms on which aliens or their
property shall be allowed to remain under its protection, and
enjoy its municipal privileges. (Yattel, B. 1, ch. 19, §§ 219,
231.)
As a question of international law, also, they could do the
same as to the citizens of other States, if not prevented by, other
clauses in the Constitution reserving to them certain rights over
the wh6le Union, and which probably protect them from any
legislation Which does not at least press as hard on their own
citizens as on those of other States. Thus, in article fourth,
section second: -"
The citizens 6f each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the s6veral
States." And the old Confederation (article fourth) protected
the ingress and egress of the citizens of each State with others,
and made the duties imposed on them the same.
Such is the case of Turner v. Smith, considered in connection with this, collecting the same of its own citizens as of
others ; and to argue that States may abuse the power, by taxing citizens of other States different from their own, is a
fallacy, because Congress would also be quite as likely to abuse
the power, because an abnse would react on the State itself, and lessen or destroy this businiess through it, and because the abuse, instead of being successful, would probably

530

SUPREME COURT.
Passen-ger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

be pronounced unconstitutional by this court, whenever appealed to.With such exceptions, I am aware of no limitations-on the
powers of the States, as a matter of right, to go to the extent
indicated in imposing terms of admission within their own
limits, unless they be so conducted as to interfere with some
other power, express or implied, which has been clearly granted
Congress, and which will be considered hereafter.
to
. The
last ground of vindication of this power, as
exercised
by Massachusetts in the third section, is under its aspect.as imposing a tax,
Considering this, the inquiry may be broad enough to ascer-"
tain whether the measure is not constitutional, under the taxing power of the State generally, independent of its authority,
.already examined, as to a police, over, the support 6f, paupers,
and, as to municipal regulations, over the admission of travellers
and non-residents.
It deserves remark, in the outset, that such a tax, under the
name of a toll or passport fee, is'not uncommon in foreign
countries on alien travellers when passing their frontiers. In
that view it would be vindicated under long usage and numerous precedents abroad, and several in this country, already
referred to.
It requires notice, also, that this provision, considered .as a
license fee, is not open to the objection of not being assessed
beforehand.at stated periods, and collected, at the time of other
taxes. When fees of a specific sum are exacted ior licenses
to sell certain gooas, or exercise certain trades, or exhibit
something rare, or for admissions to certain privileges, they
are not regarded §o much in the light of common taxes as of
fees or tolls. They resemble this payment required here more
than a tax on property, as they are not always annual, or collected at stated seasons ; they are not imposed on citizens only,
or permanent residents, but frequently are demanded'as often as
an event happens, or a: certain act is done, and at any period,
and, from any visitor or transient resident. But fees or tolls
thus collected are still legitimate taxes.
Another view of it as a tax is its imp6ition on the master of
the vessel himself, on account of his capital or-business in trade,
carrying passengers, and not a tax on the passengers themselves. The master is often a citizen of the State where he
arrives with a cargo and passengers. In such a cake, he might
be taxed on -account of his business, like other citizens ; and
so, on other general 'principles, might masters of vessels who
are iot citizens, but who come within the limits and jurisdiction and protection of the -State,and are hence, on that account,

JANUARY TERM, 1849.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

rightfully subjected to its taxation, and made to bear a share
of its burdens. It is customary in most countries, as before
named, to impose taxes on particular professions and trades or
businesses, as well as on proferty; and whether in the shape
of a license or fee, or an excise or poll-tax, or any other form, it
is of little consequence when the object of the tax ig legitimate,
as here, and its amount reasonable.
States, generally, have the right also to impose poll-taxes, as
well as those on property, though they should be proportionate
and moderate in amount. This one is not much above the
usual am6unt of poll-taxes in New England. Nor need they
require any length of residence before a person is subject 'to
such a tax; and sometimes none is required, though it is usual
to have it imposed only on a fixed day.
The power of taxation, generally, in all independent states,
is unlimited as to persons and things, except as they may have
been pleased, by contract or otherwise, to restrict themselves.
Such a power, likewise, is one of the most indispensable to
their welfare, and even their existence.
On the extent of the cession of taxation to the general government, and its restriction on the States, more will be presented hereafter; but in all cases of doubt, the -leaning may well "
be towards the States, as the general government has ample
means ordinarily by taxing imports, and the States limited
means, after parting with that great and vastly increased source
of revenue connected with imposts. The States may, therefore, and do frequently, tax every thing but exports, imports,
and tonnage, as such. They daily tax things connected with
-foreign commerce as well as domestic trade. They can tax
the timber, cordage, and iron of which the vessels for foreign
trade are made; tax their cargoes to the owners as stock in
trade; tax the vessels as -property, and tax the owners and crew
per head for their polls. Their power in this respect travels over
water as well as land, if only within their territorial limit§.
It seems conceded, that, if this tax, as a tax, had not been
imposed till the passenger had reached the shore, the present
objection must fail. But the power of the State is manifestly
as great in a harbour within her limits to tax men and property
as it is on shore, and can no more 'be abused there than on
s-ho6,-and can no more conflict there than on shore with any
authority of Congress as a taxing power not on imports.as imports. Thus, after emigrants have landed, and are on the
wharves, or on public roads, or in the public hotels, or iii private dwelling-houses, they could all be taxed, though with less
ease; and they could all, if the State felt so disposed to abuse
the power, be taxed out of their limits as quickly and effecti-

532

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.--' Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

ally as have been the Jews in former times in seteral of the
most enlightened nations-of modern Europe.
To argue, likewise, that the State thus undertakes to assess
taxes on persons not liable, and to control what it has not got,
is begging the question, either that these passengers were not
within its limits, or that all persons actually within its limits
are not liable to' its laws and not within its control. To contend, also, that this payment cannot be exacted, on the ground
that the-great orrection of excessive taxation is its oppression
on the' 9nstituent, which causes a reaction to reduce it (4
Wheat' 16,. 428), and in this case the tax does not operate on
a cistjtuent, is another fallacy, to some extent. For most
taxes operate on some classes of -people who are not voters, as,
for example, women, and especially'resident aliens; -and -if this
reasoning would exempt these passengers, when within the
limits of the State, it would also exempt all aliens, and others
not voters, however long resident -there, or however much
property they possess.
It seems likewise well settled, that, by the laws of national
intercourse and as a consequence of the protection and hospitality yielded to aliens, they are subject to ordinary- reasonable
.taxation in their persons and property by the government
where they reside, as fully as citizens. (Vattel, B. 2, ch. 10,
,§ 132, p. 235; Taylor v. Carpenter, 2 Woodbury & Minot.)
But I am not aware of the imposition of such a tax in this
form, except as a toll or a passport; it being, when a poll-tar,
placed on those who have before acquired a domicile in the
State, or have come to obtain one animo manendi. Yet,
whatever its form, it would not answer hastily to denounce it
as without competent authority, whexi impose& *ithin the
usual territorial limit6 of the State.
In short, the States evidently meant still to retain all power
of-'this kind, except where, for special reasons at home, neither
government was to tax.exports, and, for strong reasons both athome and abroad, only the general government was to tax imports and tonnage.
Having explained what seem to me the principal reasons in
favor of a power so vital to the States as that exercised by
Massachusetts in this statute, whether it be police or municipal,
regulating its residents or taxing them, I shall proceed to the
last general consideration, which is whether this power has in
any way- been parted with to Congress entirely, or as to certain
objects, including aliens.
It is not pretended that there is eo norine any express delegation of this power to Congress, or any express prohibition
of it' to.the States. And yet, by the tenth amendment .ofthe
-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

533

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

Constitution, it is provided, in so many words, that "the
powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution,
nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States
respectively, or to the people." If, in the face of this, Congress
is to be regarded as having obtained a power of restriction over
the States on this subject, it must be by mere implication, and
this either from the grant' to impose taxes and duties, or'that
.which is usually considered a clause only to prohibit and tax
the slave-trad, or that to regulate commerce. And this statute
of Massachusetts, in order to be unconstitutional, must be equivalent to one of these, or conflicting with one of them.
In relation, first, to the most important of- these objections,
regarding the statute in the light of a tax, and as such supposed
to conflict with the general power of taxation conferred on
Congress, as well as the exclusive power to tax imports, I
would remark, that the very prohibition to the States, in express terms, to tax imports, furnishes' additional proof that other
taxation by the States was not meant to be forbidden in other
cases and as to other matters. Expressio unius, exclusio est
alterius. It would be very extraordinary, also, that, when
expressly ceding powers of taxation to the general government,
the States should refrain from making them exclusive in terms,
except as to imports and tonnage, and yet should be considered
as having intended, by mere implication, there or elsewhere in
the instrument, to grant away all their great birthright over all
other taxation, or at least some most important branches of it.
Such has not been the construction or practical action of the
two governments for the last half-century, but the States have'
continued to tax all the sources of revenue ceded to Congress,
when not in terms forbidden. This was the only safe course.
(Federalist, No. 32.)
One of the best tests that this kind of tax or fee for admission to the privileges of a State is permissible, if not expressly
forbidden, is the construction in two great cases of direct taxes
on land imposed by Congress, in 1798 and 1813. The States,
on both of those occasions, still continued to impose and collect
their taxes on lands, because not forbidden expressly by the
Constitution to do it. And can any one doubt, that, so far as
regards taxation even of ordinary imports, the States could still
exercise it if they had not been expressly forbidden by this
clause? (Collet v. Collet; 2 Dallas, 296; Gibbons 'v. Ogden,
9 Wheat. 201.) If they could not, why was the express prohibition made? Why was it deemed necessary? (Federalist,
No. 32.)
This funishes a striking illustration of the-true general rule
of construction, that, notwithstanding a grant to Congress is

45 *

534

SUPREME COURT..
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Sustice 'Woodbury's Opinion.

express, if the States are not directly forbidden to act, it does
not give to Congress exclusive authority over the matter, but
the States may exercise a power in several respects relating to
it, unless, from the nature of the subject and' their relations to
the general government, a prohibition is fairly or necessarily
implied. This power in some instances seems to be concurrent or coirdinate, and in others subordinate. On this rule Of
construction there has been much ,less doubt in this particular
case as to taxation, than as a general principle on. some other
matters, 'which will hereafter be noticed under. another head.
Theargument for it is unanswerable, that, though the States
have, as to ordinary taxation -of common subjects, granted a
power to Congress, it is merely an additional powdr to their
own, and not inconsistent with it.
It has been conceded by most American jurists, and, indeed,
may be regarded as settled by this court, that 'this concurrent
power of taxation, except on imports and exports and tonnage,
(the last two specially. ahid exclusively resigned to the general
government,) is vital to the States, and still clearly exists in
them. In support of this may be seen the following authorities: - McCulloch v. State of Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 425;.
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, by Chief Justice Marshall;
Providenc6 Bank v. Billings, 4 Peters, 561 ; Brown v. State of
Maryland,. 12 Wheat. 441; 4 Gill & Johhs. 132; 2 Story's
Com. on Const., § 437; 5 Howard, 588; Weston v. City of
Charleston, 2 Peters, 449 ; Federalist, No. 42..
Nor is the case. of Brown v. Maryland, so often referred to,
opposed to this view. It seems to have been a question of
taxation, but the decision was not that, by the grant *'nhe

general government of the power to lay taxes and imposts, it
must be considered, from "the nature of the power,". "that it
[taxation generally] should be exercised exclusively by Congress." On the contrary, all, the cases before and hereafter
cited, bearing on this question, concede that the general power
of taxation still remains in the States; but in that instance it
was considered to be used so as to amount to a tax on. imports,
and, such a tax being expressly prohibited to .the States, it was
adjudged there that for this reason it was unconstitutional.
Under this head, then, as to taxation, it only remains to ascertain whether the toll or tax here imposed on alien passengers
can be justly considered a tax on imports, as it was in the case
of Brown v. Maryland, when laid on foreign goods.- If so considered, it is conceded that this tax has been expressly forbid-.
den to be imposed by a State, unless with .the consent of Congress, or to aid in enforcing the- inspection laws of the State.
Clearly it does not come within either of those last exceptions,

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

535

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Jfstice "Woodbury's Opinion.

and therefore the right to impose it must depend upon the question, whether it is an "impost," and whether passengers are
"imports," within the meaning of the Constitution. :Al impbst
is usually an ad valoremi or specific duty, and not a fee like
this for allowing a particular act, or a poll-tax like this, - a
fixed sum per head. An import is also an article of merchan(Brown
dise, goods of some kind, -property, "commodities."
v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 437. See McCulloch's Dit., Imports;
5 Howard, 594, 614.) It does not include persons unless they
are brought in as property, - as slaves, unwilling or passive
emigrants, like the importation referred to in the ninth section
of the first articJe of the Constitution. (New York v. Miln,
11 Peters, 136 ; Case of the Brig Wilson, 1 Brock. 423.)
Now there is no pretence that mere passengers in vessel are
of this character, or are property; otherwise they must be valued, and pay the general ad valorerm duty now imposed on, nonenumerated articles. They are brought in by no owner, like
property generally, or like slaves. They are not the subject of
entry or sale. The great objection to the tax in Brown v. Maryland was, that -itclogged the sale of the goods. They are not
like merchandise, too, because that may be warehoused, and
regxported or branded, or valued by an invoice. They may
go on shore anywhere, but goods cannot. A tax on them is
not, then, in any sense, a tax on impcrts, even in the purview
of Brown v. Maryland. There it was held not to be permitted
until'.the import in the original package or cask is broken up,
which it is difficult to predicate of a man or passenger.' 'The
definition there, also, is "imports are things imported," not persons, not passengers; or they are "articles brought in," and not
freemen coming of their own accord. (12 Wheat. 437.) And
when " imliorts" or "importation" is. applied to men, as is the
case in some acts of Congress, and in the ninth section of the
first article of the Constitution, it is to.men or "persons" who
are property and passive, and brought in against their will or
for sale as slaves, -brought as an article of commerce, like
oiher merchandise. (New York v. Miln, 11 Peters, 136; 15
Peters, 505; 1 Bl. Com., by Tucker, pt. 2, App. 50.)
But, so far from this being the view as to free passengers
taxed in this statute, - that they are merchandise or articles of
commerce, and so considered in any act since 1808, or before, it happens thatwhile the foreign import or trade as to slaves -is
a'bolished, and is made a capital offence, free passengers are not
prohibited, nor their introduction -punished as a crime. (4 Eliot's Deb. 119.) If "importation" in the nifith section applied
to one class of persons; and "migration" to another, as has
been argued, then allowing a tax by Congress on the "impor-

- -sm

SUPREME

CO.URT.

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

tation' of any person was meant to be confined to slaves,
,and is not allowed on "migration," either in words or spirit,
and hence itconfers no power on Congress to tax other persons (see Iredell's remarks, '4 Elliot's Deb. 119) ; and a special
clause was thought necessary to give the power to tax even the
"importation;; 'of slaves, because "a duty or impost" was
usually a tax on things, and not persons. (1 Bi. Com., by
Tucker, App. 231.)
Indeed, if passengers were "imports" for the purpose of
revenue by the general government, then, as was never pretended, they shovld and can now be taxed by our collectors,
because they are not enumerated in the tariff acts to be admitted "free" of duty, and all von-enumerated imports have a
general duty imposed on them at the end of the tariff; as, for
instance, in the act of July 30, i846, section third, "a duty
of twenty per cent. atd valorem" is laid "on all goods, wares,
and merchandise imported, from foreign countries, and not.
specially provided for in this act."
To come within the scope of a tariff, and within the princi-.
ple of retaliation by or towards foreign powers, which was
the cause.of the policy of making imposts on imports exclusive in Congreaw, the import must still be merchandise or
produce, some rival fruit of industry, an article of trade, a
subject, or at -least an instrument, of commerce. Passengers,
being neither, come not within the letter or spirit or object of
this provision in the Constitution.
It is, however, argued, that, though passengers may not be
imports, yet the- carryipg of them is a branc, of commercial
business, and a legitimate and usual employment of navigation.
Grant this, and still a tax on the passenger would not be
laying a duty on "imports" or on "tonnage "; but it ,might
be supposed to affect foreign commerce at times, and in some
forms and places, and thus interfere with the power to regulate
that, though not with the prohibition to tax imports and tonnage. Consequently, when hereafter'considering the meaning
of the grant "to regulate commerce," this view of the objection will be examined.
But there seems to be another exception to this measure, as
conflicting with the powers of .the general government, which
partly affects the question as .a tax, and partly as a regulation
of -commerce.- It is, that the tax was imposed on a vessel before the- passengers-were landed, and while under the control'
'of"the general government. So far as it relates to the measufe
as a tax, the exception- must be regarded -as applying to the"
-particular place where it iscollected, in a vessel on -the water,

JANUARk TERM, 1849.

537

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

though after her arrival within, a port or harbour. It would.
seem to be argued, that, by some constitutional provision, a
State possesses no power in such a place. But there is nothing in the taxing part of the Constitution which forbids her
action in such places on matters like this. If forbidden.at all,
it must be by general principles of the conimon-and of national
law, that no State can assessor levy a. tax on what is without
the limits of its jurisdiction, or that, if within its territorial
limits, the subject-matter is vested exclusively by the Constitution in the general government.
It will be- sten, that, if the first exception be valid, it is not
one connected with the Constitution of the United States, and
hence not revisable here. It was not, and could not properly
be, set up as a defence in the court of a State, except under its
own constitution, and hence not revisable in this court by this
writ of error. But as it may be supposed to have' some influences on the other and commercial aspect of the objection, it
may be well to ascertain whether, as a general principle, a vessel in a port, or its occupants, crew, or passengers, are in fact
without the limits and jurisdiction of a State, and thus beyond
its taxing power, and are exclusively for all purposes under the
governmenit of the United States. One of the errors in the
argument of this part of the cause has be.en an -apparent assumption that this tax - considered as a tax - was collected
at sea, before the voyage ended, and was not collected within
the limits and jur diction of the State. 'But, ex concesso, this
vessel then was in the harbour of Boston, some miles within the
limits of the State, and where this court itself has repeatedly
decided that Massachusetts, and not. the general government,
has jurisdiction. First, jurisdiction to punish crimes. (See in
Waring v. Clarke, 5 Howard, 441 ; Tbid. 628 ; Coolidge's case,
1 Wheat. 415; Bevans's case, 3 Wheat. 336; 1 Woodbury &
Minot, 401, 455,.481, 483.) Next, the State would have jurisdiction there to enforce contracts. So must she have to collect
taxes, for the like reason (5 Howard, 441); because it was a
place within the territorial limits and jurisdiction, of the State.
Chief Justice Marshall, in 12 Wheat. 441, speaks of "1their [the
States'] acknowledged power to tax persons and property within
their territory." (Ibid. 444.)
. The tax in this case does not touch the passenger in transitu
on the ocean, or abroad, - never till the actual arrival of the
vessel with him in port. An arrival in port, in other acts of
Congress using the term, is coining in, or anchoring within, ,its
limits, with a view to discharge the cargo. (2 Sumner, 419;
5 Mason, 445; 4 Taunton, 662, 722; Toler v. White, Ware,
277.)

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

For aught that appears, this vessel, before visited, had come
in and was at anchor in the port. The person so going into
port abroad is considered to have "arrived," so as to be amenable to his consul, and must deposit his papers. He has come
under or into the control of shore power, aid shore authority,
and shore laws, and shore writs, and shore juries,; at least concurrently with other authorities, if not exclusively. In common parlance, the voyag6 for this purpose at least is not interrupted; for then it has ended, and the State liabilities and
powers .begin, or the State becomes utterly imbecile. Hence,
speaking of a country as distinguished from the sea, and of a
nation as a state, Yattel (B. 1, ch. 23, § 290) says: - IPorts
and harbours are manifestly an. appendage to, and even a part
of the. country, and consequently are the property of the na.tion. Whatever is said of the land. itself will equally apply to
them, so far as respects the consequences of the domain and of
the empire." If the ports and harbours of a State are.iftra
fauces terrw, within the body of a country, the power of taxa*tion is as complete in them as it is on land, a hundred miles in
the interior. Though on tide waters, the vessels are there subject for many purposes to State authority rather than Federal,
are taxed as stock in trade, or ships owned, if by residents;
the cargo may le there taxed; the officers and crew may be
there taxed for their polls," as well as estate; and, on the same
principle, may be the master for the passengers, or the passengers themselves., Persons there, poor and sick, are also entitled
to public relief from the city or State. (4 MNttcalf, 290, 291.)
No matter where may be the place, if only within the territorial boundaries of the State, or, in other words, within its
geographical limits. The. last is the test, and not whether it
be a merchant-vessel or a dwelling-house, or something.in
either, as property or persons. Unless beyond the borders of
the State, or granted, as a fort or navy-yard within .them, to a
separate and exclusive jurisdiction, or used as an authorized instrument of the general government, the State laws control
and can tax it. (United States-v. Ames, 1 Woodb..& Minot,
76, and cases there cited.)
It is true there are exceptions as to taxation which do not
affect this questi6n; *aswhere something is taxed which is held
under the grants to the United'States, and the grants'might be
defeated if taxed by the State. That was the point in-McCulloch v.'Maryland, -4 Wheat. 316;' Weston v. City 6f Charleston, 2 Peters, 449; Dobbins'v. Commissibners of Erie Cofinty,
16 Peters, 435; Osbom v Bank of. the United, States, 9 Wheat.
738. But that is not the question here, as neither passengers
nor the master of the vessel can be considered as official.instr.
ments of the government.

JANUARY

TERM. 1849.

539

Passenger Case.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Qpinion.

In point of fact, too, in an instance like this,, it is well known
that thegeneral jurisdiction of the States for most municipal
purposes within their territory, including taxation, has -never
been ceded to the United States nor claimed by them; but
they may anchor their navies there, prevent smuggling) and
collect duties there, as they may do the last on land. But this
is not inconsistent with the other, and this brings us to the.
second consideration under this head,- how far such a concurrent power in that government, for a particular object, can,
with any propriety whatever, impair the general rights of the
States there on other matters.
These powers exist in the two governments for different purposes, and are not at all inconsistent or conilicting. The gereral government may. collect its duties, either on the water or
the land, and still the State enforce its own laws without any
collision, whether they are made for local taxation, or military
duty, or the collection of debts, or the punishment of crimes.
There being no inconsistency or collision, no reason exists to
hold either, by mere construction, void. This is the cardinal
test.
So the master may not always deliver merchandise rightfully, except on a wharf; 'nor be always entitled to freight till
the goods are on shore; -yet this depends on the usage, or contract, or nature of the p6rt, and does not affect the question of
jurisdiction. (Abbott on Shipping, 249; 4 Bos. "& Pul. 16.)
On the contrary; some .offences may be completed entirely on
the water, and yet the State jurisdiction on land is conceded.
(United States v. Coombs, 12 Peters, 72.)
So a confract lwith the passenger may or may not be completed on arriving in port, without landing, according as the
parties may have been pleased to stipulate. (Brig Lavinia, 1
Peters- Adm. 126.)
So the insurance on a cargo of a ship may not in some cases
terminate till it is-landed, though in others it may,depending on
the language used. (Reyner v. Pearsoni 4 Taunton, 662, and
Levin v. Newnham, lb. 722.) But none of these show that the
passengers may not quit the vessel outside the harbour in boats
or other vessels, and thus go. to the' land, or .go to other ports.
Or that, if not doing this, and coming in the same vessel within the State limits, they may not be subject to arrests, punishments, and taxation or police fees, or other regulations of the
State, though still on board the vessel. Nor do any of them
show that the vessel and cargo, after within the State limits,though not on the shore, ar6 -not within the jurisdiction of the
State, and liable, as property of the owner, to be taxed in common with other stock in trade.

540

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

I will not waste a moment in combating the novel idea, that
taxes by the States must' be uniform, or they are void by the
Constitution on that account; because clearly that provision
relates only to taxds imposed by the general government. It
is a falla y, also, to argue that the vessels, crews, and passengers, wI-eh within the territory of a State, are not amenable to
the State laws in these respects, because- they are enrolled as
belbnging to the United States, and their flag is the flag of the
United .States. For though they do belong to the United
State. iirespect to foreign nations and our statistical returns
and tables, this does not prevent the vessels at the same time
from being owned by citizens of the State of Massachusetts,
and the* crew beldnging there, and all, with the passengers,
after within her limits, from. being amenable generally to her
laws.'
If taking another objection to it as a tax, and arguing against
the tax imposed on the vessel, becaus, it may be abused to injure emigration and thwart the -general government, it would
still conflict with no particular clause in the Constitution or
acts of Congress. It should alsofth' remembered that this was
one objection to the license laws in 5 Howard, and that the
courtheld unanimously they were constitutional, though, they
evidently tended to diminish importations of spirituous liquor
and lessen the revenue -of the general government from that
source. But that being only an incident to them, and not their
chief design, and the chief design being within the jurisdiction
of the 'States, the laws. were upheld.
It is the purpose which Mr. Justice Johnson thinks may show
that .nocollision was ifitehde or effected. "Their different
purposes nark the distinction between the powers brought into
action, and while 'frankly exercised they can produce no serious collision." (Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 235.) "Collis"Wherever' the powers
ion must be sought t6 be produced.'
of the respective governments are frankly exercised, with a distinct view to the end ef such powers,-they may act on the
dame subject, or use the same means, and yet the powers be
kept perfectly distinct." (p"239-) See' 4 Woodbury& Minot,
423, 433.
The next delegation of power to Congress, sapposed by, some
to )se ificonsistent witl this statfite, is argued.to be involved in
the ninth section of the frst article of the Constitation.. This
they consider as a grant of power to Congress to prohibit the
migration from-abroad of all persons, bond or free, after the
year 1808, and to tax their importation at once and for ev'er,
not exceeding ten dllats, per head. (See 9 Wheat. 230., by
Mr. Justice .Johnson; 15 Peters, 514.) The words are :-

JANU.ARY

TERM. 1849.

541

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion..

"The migration or importation of such persons as any of theStates now existing shall think proper to admit shall not be
prohibited by the Congress prior to the year 1808; but a tax
or duty may be imposed on such importation, not exceeding ten
dollars for each person." But it deserves special notice, that
this section is one entirely of limitation on power, rather than
a grant of it; and the power of prohibition being nowhere
else in the Constitution expressly granted to Congress, the section seems introduced rather to prevent it from being,implied
except as to slaves, after 1808, than to confer it in.all cases.
(1 Brockenbrough, 432.)
If to be implied elsewhere, it is from the grant tW regulate
commerce, and by the idea that slaves are subjects of commerce, as they often are. Hence, it can go no further than
to imply it as to them, and not as to free passengers.
Or if to "regulate commerce" extends also to the regulation
of mere navigation, and hence to the business of carrying pas:
sengers, in which it may be employed, it is confined to a forfeiture of the vessel, and does not legitimately involve a prohibition of persons, except when articles of commerce, like
slaves. (I Brockenbrough, 432.) Or finally, however far the
power may extend under either view, it is still a power concurrent in the States, like most taxation and much local legislation a3 to matters connected somewhat with commerce, and
is well exercised by them when Congress does not, as here,
legislate upon the matter either of prohibition or of taxation
of passengers. It is hence that, if this ninth section is a grant
of the power to prevent the migration or importation of other
persons than slaves, it is not an exclusive one, any more than
that to regulate commerce, to which it refers; nor has it ever
been exercised so as to donflict with State laws, or with the
statute of Massachusetts now under.consideration. This clause
itself recognizes an exclusive power of prohibition in the States
until the year 1808. And a concurrent and subordinate power
on this by the States, after that, is nowhere expressly forbidden
in the Constitution, nor isit denied by any reason or'necessity
for such exclusivehess. The States can often use it more
wisely than Congress in respect to their own interests and'
policy. They cannot protect their police, oi health, 6r public
morals without the exercise of such a power at times and under
.ertain exigencies, as forbidding the admission of slaves and
certain other p&rsons within their borders. One State, also,
may require its exercise, from its exposures and dangers, when
.another may not. So it may be said, as to the power to tax
importation, if limited to slaves, the-States could continue to do
the same when they pleased if men are not deemed "imports."
VOL. VII.
46

542

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

But to see for a moment how dangerous it would be to consider a prohibitory power over all aliens as vested exclusively
in Congress, look -to some of the consequences. The States
must be mute and powerless.
If Congress, without a co6rdinate. or concurrent power in
the States, can prohibit other persons as well as slaves from
coming into States, they can of course allow it, and hence can
permit and demand the admission of-slaves, as well as any kind
of free person, convicts or. paupers, into any State, and enforce
the demand by all the overwhelming powers of the Union,
however obnoxious to-the habits an4 wishes of the people of a
particular State. In view of an inference like -this, 'ithas
therefore been said that, under this section, Congress cannot
admit persons whom a State pleases to eiclude. (9 Wheaton,
230; Justice Johnson.) This rather strengthens the propriety
of the independent, action of the State, here excluding conditionally, than the idea that it is under the control of Congress.
Besides this, the ten dollars per head allowed here specially
-to be collected by Congress on imported slaves is not an exclusive power to tax, and would not have been necessary or
inserted, if Congress coula clearly already. impose such a tbx
on them as - "imports," and by a "duty " -on imports. It
would be not cc little extraordinary to imply by construction a
power in Congress to :prohibit the coming into- the States of
others than slaves, or of mere aliens, on the principle 'of the
alien parts of the Alien and Sedition Laws, though it never
has -been exercised as, to others permanently; but the States
recommended to exercise it, and sevenateen of them now actually -doing it. And equally extraordizary to imply, at this late
day, not only that Congress possesses the power, but that;
though not exercising it, the States are incapable of exercising
it concurrently, or even in sub6rdination to Congress: . But beyond this, the States have exercised it concurrently as to slaves,
no less than exclusively in respect to certain free, persons, since
as well -as before 1808, and this as to their admission from
neighbouring States no less'than from abroad. (See cases before cited; and Butler v.Hopper, 1 Wash. C. C. 500.)
-The word "migration"
was probably .added to "importation" to cover slaves when'regarded as persons rather than
property, as-they are for some purposes. Or if to gover others,
such as convicts and redemptioners, itwas those only who
cane against their will, or in a quasi servitude. And though
the expression may-be broad knough to cover emigrants generafly, (3 Madis6n State Papers, 1429; 9 Wheat. 216, 230;
1 Brockenbrough, 431,) and some thought it might cover con-

JANUARY

TER-M,

1849.

543

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

victs, (5 Elliot's Deb. 477; 3 Madison State Papers, 1430,)
yet it was not so considered by the mass of the Convention,
but as intended for "slaves," and calling them "persons " out
of delicacy. (5 Elliot's Deb. 457, 477 ; 3 ib. 251, 541 ; 4 ib.
119 ; 15 Peters, 113, 506; 11 ib. 136; 1BL Com., by Tucker,
App. 290.) It was so considered in the FPderalist soon after,
and that view regarded as a "misconstruction " which extended
it to "emigration" generally. (Federalist, No. 42.) So afterwards tho.fight Mr. Madison himself, the great expounder and
framer of most of the Constitution. (3 Elliot's Deb. 422.) So
it has been held by several members of"this court (15 Peters,
508); and so it has been considered by Congress, judging from
its uniform acts, except the unfortunate Alien Law of 1798,
before cited, and which, on account of its unconstitutional
features, had so brief and troubled an existence. (4 Elliot's
Deb. 451.)
In the Constitution, in other parts as in this, the word "persons" is used, not to embrace others as well as slaves, but
slaves alone. Thus, in the second section of the nrst article,
"three fifths of all other persons " manifestly means slaves;
and in the third section of the fourth article, "no p erson held
to service or labor in one State," &c., refers to slaves. The
word slave was avoided, from. a sensitive feeling; 'but clearly
no others were intended in the ninth section. Congress so
considered it, also, mwhen it took up the subject of this section
in 1807, just before the limitation expired, or it would then
probably have acted as to others, and regulated the migration
and importation of others as well as of slaves. By forbidding
merely "to import'or bring into the United States, or territories
*thereof, from any foreign kingdom, place, or country, any
negro, mulatto, or person. of color, with intent to hold, sell, or
dispos6 of such negro, mulatto, or person of color as a slave,
or to be held to service or labor," it is manifest that Congress
then 'considered this ciause in the Constitution as referring
to slaves alone, and then as a matter of commerce; and it
strengthens this idea, that Congress has ifever since attempted
to extend this clause to any other "persons, while the States
have been in the constant habit of prohibiting the introduction
of paupers, convicts, free blacks, and persons sick with contagious diseases; no less than slaves; and this from neighbouring States as well as from abroad.
There was no occasion for that express grant, or rather recognition, of the power to forbid the entry of slaves by the general government, if Congress could, by other clauses of the
Constitution, for what seemed to it good cause, forbid'the entry of every body, as of aliens generally; and if Congress could

544

SUPREME-COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Sustice Woodbury's Opiniqa.

not do this generally, it is a decisive argument that the State
might do it, as the power must exist somewhere in every independent country. ,
Again, if the States had not such power under the Constitution,_ at least concurrently' by what authority did most of
them forbid the importation of slaves from abroad into their
-limits between 1789 and l-.08 ?- Congress has no power to
transfer such rights to States. And how came Congress to
recognize their right to do it virtually-by the first article and
ninth section, and also by the act of 1803 ? It was because the
States originally had it as sovereign States, and had never
parted with it exclusively to Congress. This court, in Groves
v. Slaughtpr, 15 Peters, 511, is generally understood as sustatniing .the right of States since 1808, no less than before,- to
prohibit the bringing into their limits of slaves for sale, even
-from other States, no less than from foreign countries.
From the very nature of State sovereignty over what is not
granted to Congress, and the power.of prohibition, either as to
persons or things, except slaves after the year 1808, not being
anywhere conferreA -on, or recognized as in, the general government, no good reason seems to exist against the present exercise of it by the States; unless where it may clearly conflict
with other clauses in the Constitution. In fact, every Slave
State in the Union, long before 1808, is believed to have pronibited t'he further importation of slaves into her territories
from abroad (Libby's Case, 1 Woodb. & Min. 235; Butler v.
Hopper, I Wash. C. C. 499); and sevexalas before stated, have
since prohibited -virtually the import of them from contiguous
States.. Among them may be named Kentucky, Missouri, and
Alabama, as wall as Missi sippi, using, for instance, as in the
constitution of the last, such language as the following :"The introduction of slaves into this State as iferchandise,
or for sale, shall be prohibited from and after the first day. of
May, 1833." (See Constitutions of the States, and 15,Peters,
50.0.)
Coming by land or sea to be sold, slaves are -equally articles
of commerce,- and thus bringing them in is an "importation or
migration of persons "; and if the power over that is now exclusive in Congress, more than half the States in the Union
have violated it. If a State can do this as to slaves from
abroad or. a contiguous State, why n6t, as has often been- the
case, do it in respect to any other person deemed dangerous or
hostile to the stability and prosperity of her institutions ? They
can, because they act on these persons when within their limits, and for Objects not commercial, and doing this is not disturbing the voyage, which brings them in as passengers, nor

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

-545

Opinion.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodb-ary's

taxing the instrument used in it, as the vessel, nor even the
master and'crew, for acts done abroad, or any thingwithout her
own limits. The power of the State in prohibiting rests'on a
sovereign right to regulate who shall be her inhabitants,- a
right more vital than that to regulate commerce by the general.
government, and which,- as independent 'or concurrent; the
latter has not disturbed, and should not disturb. 'Z15 Peters,
507, 508.)
Bat the..final objection made to the collection- of this money,
by a State is a leading and difficult one. Itconsists in this
view, that, though called either a police regulation, or a municipal condition to admission into a State, or a tax on an alien'
visitor, it is in substance and in truth a regulation of foreign
commerce, and, the power to make that being exclusively vested in Congress, no State can properly exercise it.
If- both the points involved in this position could be sustained, this proceeding of the State might .be obliged to yield.
But there are two answers to it. One of them is, that this
statute is not a regulation of commerce ; and the other is, that
the power to regulate foreign commerce is not made exclusive
in Congress.
As to the first, this statute does not eo -noniineundertake "to
regiilate commerce," and its design, motive, and object were
entirely different.
At"the forMation of the Constitution, the power to. regulate
commerce attracted but little attention, compared with that to
impose duties on imports and tonnage ; and this last had caused
so much .ifficulty, both at home and abroad, that it was expressly and entirely taken away from the States, but the former was not .attempted to be., The former, too, occupies
scarce a page in the Federalist, while the latter engrosses
several numbers. A like disparity existed in the debates
-in the Convention, and-in the early legislation of Congress.
Nor did the former receive much notice of the profession in
construing the qonstitution -till after a quarter of a century;
.and then, though considered in the case of Gibbons v. Ogden
(9 Wheaton, 1) as d power clearly conferred on Congress, and
to be sustained on all appropriate matters, yet it does not appear to have been held that nothing connected in any degree
with commerce, or'resembling it, could be regulated by State
legislation; but only that this last must nfit be so exercised as
to conflict directly with an existing act of Congress. (See the
text, and-especially the mandate in 9 Wheat. .239, 240.) On
the contrary, many subjects of legislation are of such a doubtful class, and even of such an amphibious character, that one
person would arrange and define them as matters of police,
46 *
-

546

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

an'other as matters of taxation, and another as matters of commerce. But all familiar with these topics must know, that
laws on these by States for local purposes, and to operate only
within State limits, are not usually intended, and should not
be considered, as laws "to regulate commerce." They are
made entirely diverso intuitu. Hence,-much connected with
the local power of taxation, and with the police of the States
as to paupers, quarantine laws, the introduction of criminals or
dangero&,persons, or of obscene and- immoral prints and books,
or of destructive poisons and liquors, belongs to the States at
home. It varies with their different home policies and habits,
and is. not either in its locality or operation a matter of exterior policy, though at time connected with, or resulting
from, foreign corimerce, and over which, within their own
borders, the States have never acted as if they had parted with
the power, and never could with so much advantage to iheir
people.as' to retain it among themselves. (9 Wheaton, 203.)
Its interests and influences are nearer to each State, are often
peculiar to each, better understood -by and f4 each,. and, if
prudently watched over, will never involve them in conflicts
with the general government or with foreign nations.
The regulation and support of paupers and convicts, as well
as their introduction into a State through foreign intercourse,
by vessels, are matters 'of this character. (New York v. Miln,
11 Peters, 141; License Cases, 5 Howard; Baldwin's Views,
184.) Some States are much exposed to large burdens and
fatal diseases and moral pollution from this source, while others
are alost entirely exempt. Some, therefore, need no legislation, State or national, while others do and must protect themselves whien Congress cannot or will not. This matter, for
instance, may be vital to Massachusetts, New York, Louisiana,
or Maryland ; but it is a subject of indifference to a large portion of the rest of the Union, not much resorted to from abroad;
and this'circumstance indicates, not only why those first-named
States, as States, should, by local legislation, protect them-'
selves from supposed evils from it where deemed necessary or
expedient, but that it is not one of those incidents to our foreign
commerce in ynost of the Union which, like duties, or imposts,
or 'taxes on tonnage, require a uniform and universal rule to be
applied by the general government.
A uniform rule by Congress not being needed on this particular -point, nor being just, is a strong proof that it was not
intended Congress should exercise power over it; especially
when paupers; or aliens likely to become paupers, enter a
State that .has not room or business for them, but they merely
pass through to other places, the tax would. not be needed to

JANUARY TERM, 1.849.
Passenger Cases. -

547

Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opiniodn.

support them or help to excludb them; and hence such a State
would not be likely to impose one for those purposes. But
considering the power to be in Congress, and some States
needing legislation, and that. being required to be uniform, if
Congress were ,to impose a tax for such purposes, and pay a
ratable proportion of it over to such a State, it would be unjust. If, to avoid this, Congress -were to collect such a tax,
and itself undertake to support foreign paupers out of it, Congress would transcend the powers granted to'her, as none
extend to the maintenance of paupers, and it might as .well
repair roads for local use and make laws to settle intestate
estates, or, at l.ast, estates of foreigners., And if it can do
this because passengers are aliens and connected with foreign
commerce, and; this power being exclusive in it, State taxes on
them are therefore void, it must follow that State laws are void
also in respect to foreign bills of exchange, a great instrument
of foreign comrherce, and in respect to bankrupt laws, another
topic connected with foreign commerce,- neither of which,
but directly the reverse,, is the law.
"To regulate" is to prescribe rules, to contr~l. But the
State by this statute prescribes no rules for the- "commerce
with foreign nations." It does not regulate the vessel or the
voyage while in progress. On the contrary, it prescribes rules
for a local matter, one in which she, as a State, has the deepest interest, and one arising -after the voyage has ended, and
not a matter of commerce or navigation, but rather of police,
or municipal, or taxing supervision.
Again, it is believed that in Europe, in several instances of
border states,*so far from the introduction of foreigners who are
paupers, or likely soon to be so, being regarded as a question
of commerce, it is deemed one of police merely; and the ex-.
penses of alien paupers ire mad& a subject of reclamation from
the contiguous government to'which they belong.
Thig view, showing that the reguiation of this matter is not
in substance more than in words to regulate foreign commerce,
is strengthened by various- other matters, which have never
been regarded as regulating commerce, though nearer connected'in some respects with that commerce than this is. But like
-this, they are all, when provided for. by the States,'regulated
only witnin their own limits, and for themselves, and not without their. limits, as of a foreign matter, nor for other States.
Such are the laws of the States which have ever continued to
regulate several matters in harbours and ports wher6 foreign
vessels enter and unload. (Vanderbilt v. Adams, 7 Wendell,
349.) The whole jurisdiction over them when within the
headlands on the ocean, though filled with salt water and

548

SUPREMt COURT.
Passengpr Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinio'n.

str6ng tides, is in the States. We have under aAother'head
already shown that it exists there exclusively for most criminal
prosecutions, and also for all civil proceedings to prosecute
trespasses and recover debts of the owners of the ship or cargo, or of the crew-or passengers, and whether aliens or citizens. And though the general government is allowed to collect it6 duties and enforce its specific requirements about them
there, as it is authorized to do, and does, under acts of Congress, even on land, (Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.; United
States v. Coombs, 12 Peters, 72,)yet it can exercise no power
there, criminal or civil, under implication, or under a construction that its authority to regulate commerce there is exclusive as to matters like these. No exclusive jurisdiction has
been expressly ceded to it there, as in, some forts, navy-yards,
and arsenals. Nor is any necessary. Not one of its officers,
fiscal or judicial; can exert the smallest authority there in opposition to the State jurisdiction, and State laws, and, State
officers, but only in public vessels of war, or over forts and
navy-yards ceded, or as to duties on imports, and other cases,
to the extent specifically bestowed on them by constitutional
acts of Congress. And to regulate these local concerns in this
way by the States is not to regulate foreign commerce, but
home concerns. The design is local; the object a State object,- and not a foreign, or commercial ohe ; and the exercise of
the power is not conflicting with any existing actual enactment by Congress.
The States also hve and can exercise there, not only their
just territorial jurisdiction over persons and, things, but make
special officers and special laws for regulating there in, their
limits variotis matters of a local interest and bearing, in connection with all the commerce, foreign as well as domestic,
which is there gathered. They appoint and pay harbourmasters, and officers to regulate .the deposit of ballast, and
anchorage of vessels, (7. Wendell, 349,) and the building of
wharves; and are often at great expense in removing obstructions. (1 Bl. Com., by Tucker, 249.)
These State officers have the power to direct where vessels
shall anchor, and the preqautions to be itsed against fires on
board; and all State laws in regard to such matters imust
doubtless continfe in force till conflicting with some express
legislation'by Congress. (1 Bl. Corm., by Tucker, 252.) I
allude to these with the greater particulaity, because they are
so directly connected .vit.h foreign commerce, and are not justified more, perhaps, under police, or sanatory, or moral considerations, than under the general principle of concurrent authority in the States on mady matters granted to Congress,

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

1549

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

taking care not to attempt to regulate the foreign commerce,
and not to conflict directly and materially with any provision
actually made by Congress, - nor to do it in a case where the
grant is accompanied by an express prohibition to the States,
or is in its nature and character such as to imply clearly a total
prohibition to the States of every exercise of power connected
with it. To remove doubts as to the design to have the power of the States remain to legislate on such matters within
their own limits, the old Confederation, in article ninth, where
granting the power of regulating " the trade and managing all
affairs wIth the Indians, not members of any of the States,"
provided that "the legislative right of anj State, within its own
limits, be not infringed or violated." The same end was meant
to be effected in the new Constitution, though in a different
way; and this was, by not granting any power to Congress
over the internal commerce, or police, or municipal affairs of
the States,' and declaring expressly, in the tenth amendment,
that all powers not so granted were reserved to the people of
the States.
It follows from what has been said, that this statute of Massachusetts, if regarded as a police measure, or a municipal regulation as to residents or visitors within its borders, or -as a tax
-or any local provision for her own affairs, ought not to be considered as a regulation of commerce ; but it is one of those other
measures still author 3d in the States, and still useful and
appropriate to them. Such measures, too, are usually-not conflicting with that commerce, but adopted entirely diierso intuitu, and so operating.
'Conceding, then, that the power to regulate foreign commerce may include the regulation of the vessel as well as
the cargo, and the manner of using the vessel in that comIt
merce, yet the statute of Massachusetts does neither.
merely affects the master or passengers after. their arrival,
and for some further act than- proposed to be done. And
though vessels are instruments, of commerce, passengers are
not. And though regulating the mode of carrying them on
the ocean may be to regulate commerce and. navigation, yet 'totax them after their arrival here is not. Indeed; the regulation
of any thing is 'not naturally or generally to tax it, as that
usually depends on another power. It has been well held in
.this court, that under the Constitution the tdxing of imports
is not a regulation of commerce, nor to be sustained under
that grant, but under the grant as to taxation. (Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 201.) Duties may, to be sure, be imposed at
time to regulate commerce, bat oftener are imposed with a
view to revenue; and therefore, under that heid, duties as
taxes were prohibited to thfe States. (9 Wheat. 202, 203.)

550

SUPREME

COURT.

Passenger Cases. -Mr. Jusfice Woodbury's Opinion.

It is a mistaken view to say, that the power of a State to
exclude slaves, or free blacks, or convicts, or paupers, or to
make pecuniary terms for their admission, may be one not conflicting with commerce, -while the- same power, if applied to
alien: passengers coming in vessels, does conflict. Slaves now
excepted, though once not entirely,. they are all equally and
frequently passengers', and, all oftener come in by water in the
business and chanmels of ocean commerce than by land. But
if the transit of persons coming into the States as passengers,
by water, is a branch of commerce, so -is their coming in by
land; and this, whether from other nations on our.land frontier, or from other States. And if Mississippi and -Ohio can
rightfully impose prohibitions, taxes, or any terms to such
coming by land or water from other States, so may Massachusetts and New York, if thus coming from foreign nations by
water. Congress, also, has like power to regulate commerce
between the States, as between this country and other nations,
and if persons coming in by water as passengers belong to the
subject of commerce and navigation on the Atlantic, so do
they on the,Lakes and large rivers; and if excluding or requir-.
ing terms of them in one place interferes with comrerce, so it
does in the other.
Again, if amy decisive indication, independent of general
-principles, exists as, to which government shall exercise the
taxing power in respect to the support of paupers, it is that
the States, rather than the general government shall exercise
it '(9 Wheat. 206, 216); and exercise it as such a power,
and ixot, by a forced construction, as a power "to regulate cornmerce."! The States have always continued to exercise the
various powers of local taxation and -police, and not Congress;
and have maintained. all paupers. And this, though the general authority to regulate commerce, no less than to lay taxes,
was granted to Congress. - But police powers and powers over
-the internal commerce and municipal affairs of States, were
not granted away; and under them,' and the general power of
taxation, States continued to. control this subject, and not under the power to regulate commerce. Nor did Congress,
though possessing, this last power, ever attempt to interfere,
as if to do so was a branch of that power or justifiable under
it, because ifi
terms using language connected with commerce.
Thus, in the -Kentucky constitution, and substantially in several
others, it is provided that the legislature "shall have full power to prevent slaves from being brought into this State as merchandise," and Congress sanctioned that Constitution, and the
rest, with such provisions in-them.
These affairs are a part of the domestic economy of States,

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

551

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

belong to their interior policy, and operate on matters affectinq
the fireside, the hearth, and the altar. The States have no
foreign relations, and need none, as to this. " (1 BL. Com.,
by Tucker, App. 249.)
The fair exercise of such powers rightfully belonging to a
State, .though connected often with foreign commerce and indirectly or slightly affecting it, cannot therefore be considered, in any point of view, hostile, by their intent or origin, as
regulations of such commerce. *See in point, Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 203 ;. 11 Peters, 102.
In this view, it is immaterial whether this tax is imposed on
the passenger while in the ship, in port, or when he touches
the whvrf, or reaches his hotel. All .these places, being wVithin
the territory, axe equally within the jurisdiction of the State
for municipal purposes such as these; and not with a view to
regulate foreign commeice; it being conceded that a tax may
be imposed on a passenger after quitting the vessel and on the
land, why may it not before, when he is then within the limits
of the State? In either instance, the tax has no concern with
the foreign voyage, and does not regulate the foreign commerce; whereas, if otherwise, it might be as invalid when
imposed on land as on water.
Much of the difficulty in this case arises, I apprehend,
from a misconception, as if this tax was imposed on the passenger at sea and before within the territorial limits of the
State. But. this, as before suggested, is an entire misapprehension of the extent of those limits, or of the words and meaning of the law.
If, then, as is argued, intercourse by merchants in person,
and by officers in their vessels,, boats, and wagons, is a part-of
commerce, and the carrying of passengers is also a branch of
navigation or commerce, still the taxing of these after the arrival in port, though Congress there has power to collect its
duties as it has on land, is not vested at all in Congress; or, if
at all, not exclusively.
Who can point to the-cession to the United States of the
jurisdiction, by Massachusetts or New York, of their own
ports and harbours for purposes of taxation, or any other local
and municipal purpose?
So far from interfering at all here with the foreign voyage,
the State power begins when that ends and the vessel has entered the jurisdictional limits of the State. Her laws reach
the consequences and results of foreign commerce, rather than
the commerce itself. They touch not the tonnage of the vessel, nor her merchandise, nor the baggage or tools of the
aliens; nor do they forbid the vessels carrying passengers.

552

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodburys Opinion.

But as a condition to their landing and remaining within the
jurisdiction of the State, enough is required by way of condition or terms for that privilege, and the risk of their becoming
chargeable, when aliens, (though not chargeable at the time,)
to cover in some degree -the expenses happening under such
contingency. This has nothing to. do with the regulation of
commerce itself, - the right to carry passengers to and fro over
the Atlantic Ocean,- but merely with their irLhabitancy or
residence within a State so as to be entitled to its charity, its
privileges, and protection. Such laws do not conflict directly
with- any provision by the general government as to f6reign
commerce, because none has been- made on this point, and they
are not in clear collision with any made by that government
-on any other point. When, as here, they purport to be for a
different purpose from touching the concerns of the general
government, - when they are, as here, adapted to another
local and legitimate object,- it is unjust to a sovereign State,
and derogatory to the character of her people and legislature,
to impute a sinister and illegitimite design to them concerning
foreign commerce, different from that avowed, and from that
which the amount,. of the tax and the evil to be guarded
against clearly indicate as the true design. Hence, as bef6re remarked, Mr. Justice Johnson, in the same opinion
which was cited by the -original defendants, says the purpose
is the test; and if that be different, and does not clash, the
law is not unconstitutional.
So Chief. Justice Marshall, in 9 Wheat. 204, says, that Congress for one purpose and a State for another may use like
means and both be vindicated. And though Congress obtains
its power from a special grant, like that of the'power CCto regulate commerce," the State may obtain it from a reserved
Hence,
power over internal commerce or over its police.
while Congress regulates the number of 'passengers to the
size of the vessel, as a matter of foreign commerce, and may
exempt their baggage and -tools. from duties as a matter of imposts on imports, yet this is not inconsistent with the power
of a State, after passengers arrive within her limits, to impose
t6rms on their landing, with a view tp benefit her pauper police, or her fiscal resources, or her municipal safety and welfare.
And the two powers, thus exercised separately by the two
governnients, may, as Mr. Justice Johnson says, "be perfectly
distini*ct." So, in the language of Chief Justice Marshall, "if
executed by the Same means," "this does not prove that the
powers themselves are identical."
The measures of the general government amount to a regulation of the traffic, or trade, or business, of carrying passen-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

553

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbary's Opinion.

gers, and of the imposts on imports; but those of the States
amount to neither, and merely affect the passengers or master
of the vessel after their arrival within the limits of a State,
and for State purposes, State security, and State plicy.
As we have before explained, then, if granting that the
bringing of passengers is a great branch of the business of
navigation, and that to regulate commerce is to regulate navigation, yet this statute of Massachusetts neither regulates that
navigation employed in carrying passengers, nor the passengers
themselves, either while abroad in foreign. ports, or while on
the Atlantic Ocean, but merely taxes them, or imposes conditions on them, after *ithin the State. These things are done,
as Mr. Justice Johnson said in another case, "with a distinct'
view." And it is no objection that they "act on the same
subject" (9 Wheat. 235); or, in the words of Chief Justice
Marshall, "although the means used in - their execution may
sometimes approach each other so nearly as to -be confounded"
(p. 204). But where any doubt arises, it should operate against
the uncertain and loose, or what the late chief justice called
"questionable .power to regulate commerce," (9 Wheat. 202,)
rather than the more fixed and distinct police or taxingpower.
In cases like this, if, amidst the great complexity of human
affairs, and in the shadowy line between the two governments
over the same peoplb, it is impossible for their mutual rights
and powers 'not to infringe occasionally upon each other, or
cross a little the dividing line, it constitutes no cause for denouncing the acts on either side as being exercised under the
same power or for the same purpose, and therefore unconstitutional and void. When, as is seldom likely, their laws come
in direct and material collision, both being in the exercise of
distinct powers,. which beloilg to them, it is wisely provided,
by the Constitutioh itself, and consequently by the States and
the people themselves, as they framed it, that the States, being
the granting power, must recede. (9, Wheat. 203; License
Cases, 5 Howard; United States v. New Bedford Bridge, I
Woodb. & Minot, 423.) Here we see no such collision.
There are' other cases of seeming opposition which are ,econcilable, and not conflicting, as to the powers exercised both
by the States and the general government, but for different purposes. Thus hides may be imported under the acts of
Congress taxing -imports and regulating commerce; but this
does not deprive a State of the right, in guarding the public
health, to have them destroyed if ,putrefied, whether before
they reach the land or after. So as to the import of gunpowder by the authority of one government, and the prohibitions
voL. VII.
47

554

SUPREME

COURT.

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodburys Opinion.
by the other, fqr the public safety, to keep it in large quantities.
(4 Metcalf, 294.) -Neither of these acts by the State attempts
to. interfere with the commerce abroad, but after its arrival
here, and for other purposes; local' and-sanatory, or municipal.
. In sh6rt, it has been deliberately held by this court, that the
laying a duty on imports, if this was of that character, is .an
exercise of the taxing power, and not of that to regulate commerce.
(Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 201, by Chief Justice
.Marshall.)
And if, in Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 447,
the tax or duty imposed there can be considered as held
to violate both, it was because it was not only a tax on imports, but provided for the treatment of goods themselves, or
regulated them as imported in foreign commerce, and while in

bulk. But if the powei exercised in this law by Massachusetts
could, by a forced construction, be tortured into a regulatidn
of foreign commerce, the next requisite to make the law void
is not believed to exist in the fact that the States 4o not retain
some concurrent or'subordinate powers, such as were here ex-ercised, though connected in certain respects with foreign commerce. - Beside the- reasons already assigned for this opinion,
it is not opposed to either the language or the spirit of the
Constitution in connection-with this particular grant. Accompanying it are no exclusive words, nor is the further action of
the States, or any thiig concerning commerce, expressly forbidden in any other Way in the Constitution. But both of these
are done in several other cases, such as "no State shall coin
money," or no State "engage in war," and these are ordinary
modes adopted in"the Constitution to indicate that a power
granted is exclusive, when it was meant to be so.
If this reasoning be not correct, why was express prohibition to the States used on any subject where authority was
granted io Congress?
The only other mode to ascertain
whether a power thus granted is exclusive "is to look at the
nature of each grant, and if that does not clearly show the
power to be exclusive, not to hold it to be so."
We have'
seen that was the rule laid down by one of the makers and
great ekpounders of the instrument.' (Federalist, No. 82. See
also 14 Peters, 57'5.)
It held out. this as an indueement to the States to adopt the
Constitution, and was urged by all the logic and eloquence of
Hamilton. It was, that a grant of power to Congress, so far
from being ipso facto exclusi~Ve, never ousted the power of
the Stateg previously existihg, unless " where an exclusive authority is in express terms granted to the Union, or where a
particular authority is granited" to the Union and the exercise

JANUARY T.ERM, 1849.

555

Passeng'er Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

of a like authority is prohibited to the States; or where an
authority is granted to the Union, with which a similar autlority in the States would be utterly incompatible."
This rule has been recognized in various decisions on constitutional questions by many of-the judges of -this court. 2
Cranch, 397; 3 Wheat. 986; 5 Wheat. 49; Wilson v. Blackbird- Creek Marsh Company, 2 Peters, 245; Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16 Peters, 627, 655, 664; New York v. Miln, 11 Peters, 103, 132; Groves v. Slaughter, 15 Peters, 509; Holmes
v. Jennison, 14 Peters, 579. So by this court itself,-in Sturges
v.Crowninshield,.4 Wheat. 193. And also by other authorities entitled to much respect. 4 Elliot's Deb. 567; 3 Jefferson's Life, 425-429; 3 Serg. & Rawle, 79; Peck's Trial, 86,
87, 291-293, 329, 404, 434, 435; Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386;
1 Kent's Com. 364; 9 Johns. 568.
9 Wheat.
In other cases it is apparently contravened.
209; 15 Peters, 504, by Mr. Justice McLean, and 511, by Mr.
Justice Baldwin; Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16 Peters, 543; New
York v. Miln, 11 Peters, 158, by Mr. Justice Story; The
Chusan, 2 Story, 465; Golden v. Prince, 3 Wash. C. C. 325.
But this is often in appearance only, and not in reality.- It
is not a difference as to what should be the true rule, but in
deciding what cases fall within it, and especially the branch
of it as to what is exclusive by implication and reasoning
from the nature of the particular grant or -case; or in the
words of Hamilton, "where an authority is granted to the
Union, with which a similar authority in the States would be
utterly incompatible."
Thus, in the celebrated case of Sturges v. Crowninshield,
the rule itself is laid down in the same way substantially as in
the Federalist; namely, that the power is to be taken from the
State only when expressly forbidden, or where ",the terms .in
which a power is granted to Congress, or the nature of the
power, require that it should be exercised exclusively by Congress." , (4 Wheat. 122, 193, by Chief Justice Marshall; Prigg
v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 16 Peters, 626, by Chief
Justice Taney, and 650, by Mr. Justice Daniel.)
And Chief Justice Marshall on another occasion considered
this to be the true rule. That was in the case cf Wilson v.
Blackbird Creek Marsh Company, 2 Peters, 245, though a comJudge Story did the same in Houston
mercial question. -And
So, many of
v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 49,- -a militia question.
the other grants in this same section of the Constitution, under like forms 4of expression, have been virtually held not to
be exclusive; such as that over weights and measures; that
over bankruptcy (Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122);

556-

SUPREME "COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

that over taxation (see cases already cited); that to regulate
the value of foreign coins; that to discipline ,the militia
(Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 1; 3 Stor. Com. on Constitution,
§ 1202; 15 Peters, 499; Rawle on the Constitution, ch. 9,
p. 111); that "to provide for the punishment of counterfeiting coin" (Fox v. State ,of Ohio, 5. How. 410) ; nd robbing
the mail when" punished as highway. robbery (5 Wheat. 34).
Why, then, hold this to be otherwise than concurrent?
There are still other grants, in language like, this, which
never have been considered exclusive. Even the power to
-pass uniform naturalization laws was once considered by this
court as not exclusive (Collet v. Collet, 2 Dallas, 296); and
though doubt has been flung on this since by the United
States v. Villato, 2 Dall. 372, Chirac v. Chirac, 2 Wheat. 269,
anid by some of the court in 5 Howard, 585, and Golden b.
Prince, 3 Wash. C. C. 314; and though these doubts may be
well foufided unless the State naturalization be for local purposes only in the State, as, intimated in Collet v. Collet, and
more favorable than the law of the United States, and not to
give rights of- ctizenship out of the State, (1 Bl. Com., by
Tucker, App. 3, 4, 255, 296,) which were the chief objections
in 3 Wash. C. C, 314; yet this change of opinion does
not impugn in principle the ground for considering the local
measure in their case as not conflicting with foreign commerce.
The reasoning for a change there does not apply here.
So, it is well settled that no grant of power. to Congress is
exclusive, unless expressly so, merely because it may be broad
enough in terms to cover a power which clearly belongs to the
State; e. g. police, quarantine, and license laws. They may relate to a like place and subject, and by means somevhat alike,
yet, if the purposes of the State and of -Congress are differnt
and legitimate for each, they are both permissible and neither
exclusive. (See cases before cited, 4 Wheat. 196; 3 Ell.
Deb. 259; Baldwin's Views, 193, 194.)
This very grant of the power "1to regulate commerce " has
also been held by this court not to prevent bridges or ferries
by the States where waters are navigable. (Wilson v. Blackbird Creek Marsh Company, 2 Peters, 245.) So elsewhere.
(Corfield v. Ccryell, 4 Wash. C. C. 371; 1 -Woodb.-& Min.
417, 424, 425; 9 Wheat. 203. See also Warren Bridge Case,
11 Peters, 420; 17 Conn. 64; 8 Cowen, 146; 1 Pick.
180; 7 N. Hamp. 35.) And it has been considered elsewhere not to confer, though in navigable waters, any right or
control over the fisheries therein, within the limits of a State.
(4 Wash. C. C. 383. See also Martin v. Waddell, 16 Peters,
367; 3 Wheat. 383; Angell on'Tide Waters, 105.) So the
.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

557

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

States have been accustomed to legislate as to pilots, and Congress has concurred in it., But if the acts of the States alone
as to pilots are not valid, on the ground of a concurrent power
in them, it is difficult to see hoV. Congress can transfer or cede
to the States an authority on th is which the Constitution has
not given to them. (Chief Justice Taney, in 5 Howard, 580.)
The real truth is, that, each possessing the power in some
views and places, though not exclusively, Congress may declare it will not exercise the power on its part, either by an express law or by actual- omission, and thus leave the field. open
to the States, on their reserv'ed or concurrent rights, and not
on any rights ceded to them by Congress. This reconciles
the whole matter, and tends strongly to sustain the same view
in the case now under consideration.
Nor has it ever been seriously contended, that, where Congress has chosen to legislate about commerce and navigation
on our navigable waters as wella as the' sea-coast, and to introduce guards against steam explosions and danger m steam
vessels, the law is not to be enforced as proper under the power to regulate commerce, and when not in conflict with any
State legislation. This power in Congress is at least concurrent, and extends to commerce on rivers, and 'even on land, as
well as at sea, when between oir own States or with 'foreign
countries. Whether this could be done as to vessels on waters
entirely within any one State is a .different question, which
need not be here considered. (See Waring v. Clark, 5 How-

ard, 441.)
"As a general rule of construction, then, the grants to Congress should never be considered as exclusive, unless so indicated expressly in the Constitution by the nature or place of
the thing granted, or by the positive prohibition usually resorted to when that end is contemplated, as that "no State
shall enter into any treaty," or "coin money," &c.; "no State
shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or
duties on imports," &c. (Art. 1, § 9. United States v. New
Bedford Bridge, '1 Woodb. & Min. 432.)
It is also a strong argument, after using this express- prohibition in some cases, that, when not used in others, as it is not
here, it is not intended. Looking at the nature of this grant,

likewise, in order to see if it can or should be entirely exclusive, we are forced to the same conclusions.
There 14snothing in-the nature of much which is here connected with foreign commerce that is in its character foreign,
or appropriate foi the action of a central and single governinent; on the contrary, there. is matter' which is entirely local, -something which is seldom universal, or required to be

558

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-

Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

either general or uniform- For though Congress is empowered
to regulate commerce, and ought to legislate -for foreign commerce as for all its leading incidents and uniform and universal wants, yet 1'to reguiate commerce" .could hever have been
supposed by the framers of the Constitution to devolve on the
general government the care of any thing except exterior intercourse with foreigni nations, with other States, and the -Indian
tribes. Every thing else within State limits was, of course, to
be left to each State, as too different in so large a'country to
be subjected to uniform rules, too multifarious for the attention
of the central government, and too local for its cognizance
over only general matters.
It was a difference between the States as to imposts or. duties on imports and tonnage which embarrassed their intercourse with each other and with foreign nations, and which
mainly led to the new Constitution, and not th&mere regulation of commerce. (9 Wheat. 225.) It was hence- that tle
States in respect to duties and imposts were not- left to exercise cbncurrent powers, and this was prevented, -not by merely
empowering Congress to tax imports, but by expressly forbidding the States to do the same; and this express prohibition
would not-have been resorted to, or been necessary,-if a mere
grant to Congress of the power to impose duties oi to "regulate commerce" was alone d eemed, exclusive, and was to prevent taxation of imports by the States,. or assessing money by
them on any kind of business or tdaffic by navigation, such as
carrying passengersi.
Congress; in this way, resorted to a special -prohibition
where they meant one (as to taxes on, imports); but where
they did n t, as, for'example, in other taxation or regulating
commerce, they introduced no such special prohibition, and
left the States to act also on local and appropriate matters,
though connedted in some degree with commerce. Where, at
any time, Congress had not legislated or preoccupied that particular field, the States acted freely and beneficially, yielding,
-however, to Congress when it does act on the same particular
matter, unless both act for different and. consistent objects.
(Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 204, 239.) In this way much
was meant to be left in the States, and much ever has been
left, which partially related to commerce, and an expansive,
and roving, and absorbing construction has since been attempted to be given to the grant of the power to regulate commerce, apparently never thought of at, the. time it was introduced into the Constitution. When I say much was -eft, and
meant to be left, to the States in connection.with commerce,
I mean, concerning details and local matters, inseparable in

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

559

Passenger Caees.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

some respects from foreign commerce, but not belonging to
its exterior or general character, and not conflicting with any
thing Congress has already done. (Vanderbilt v. Adams, 7 Wen-'
dell, 349; New Bedford Bridge Case, 1 Woodb. & Min. 429.)
Such is this very matter as to taxation to support foreign
paupers, with many other police matters, quarantine, inspections, &c.
(See them enumerated in the License Cases, 5
Howard.)
The. provisions in the State laws in 1789, on these and
kindred matters, did not therefore drop dead on the adoption
of the Constitution, but only those relating to duties expressly
prohibited to the States, and to foreign and general matters
which were then acted on by Congress. Chief Justice Mairshall, in Sturges v. Crowninshield, (4 Wheat. 195,) considered "the power of the States as existing over such cases as
the laws of the Union may not reach."
So far as reasons exist to make the exercise of the commercial power exclusive, as on matters of exterior, general, and
uniform cognizance, the construction may be proper to render
it exclusive, but no further, as the exclusiveness depends in
this case .wholly on the reasons, and not on any express prohibition, and hence cannot extend beyond the reasons themselves. Where they disappear, the exclusiveness should halt.
In such case, emphatically, cessante ratione, cessat et ipsa lex.
It nowhere seems to have been settled that this power -is
exclusive in Congress, so that the States can enact no laws
on any branch of the subject, vhether conflicting or not with
any acts of Congress. But, ca the contrary, the majority of
the court in the License Cases (5 Howard, 504) appear to have
held that it is not exclusive as to several matters connected
in some degree with commerce. The case of New York v.
Miln (11 Peters, 141) seems chiefly to rest on a like principle,
and likewise to hold that measures of the character now under
consideration are not regulations of commerce.
Indeed, besides these cases, and on fis very subject of commerce, a construction has at times been placed, that it is not
exclusive in all respects, as Will soori be shown, and if truly
placed, it is not competent to hold that the State legislation
on such incidental, subordinate, and local -matters is utterly
void when it does not conflict with some actual legislation by
Congress. For the silence of Cohgress, which some seem to
regard as more formidable than its action, is, whether in fullor in part, to be respected and obeyed only where its power
is exclusive, and the States are deprived of all authority over
the matter. The power must first be shown to be exclusive
before any inference can be drawn that the silence of Congress

560

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

speaks, and a different course of reasoning begs the question
attempted, to be proved. In other cases, when the power of
Congress is not exclusive and that of the States is concurrent,
the silence of Congress to legislate on any mere local or subordinate matter within the limits of a State; though connected
in some respects with foreign ccmmerce, is rather an invitation
for the'States to legislate upon it, - is rather leaving it to them
for the present, and assenting to their action in the matter, than a circumstance nullifying andbdestroying every useful
and ameliorating provision made by them.
Such, in. my view, is 'the true rule in respect to the commercial grant of power over: matters not yet regulated by
Congress, and which are obviously local. In the case of Wilson v. The Blackbird Creek Marsh Co., Chief Justice Marshall
not only treated this as the. true-rule -generally, but held it applicable to the grant to Congress of the power "to regulate
commerce," and, that this. grant was not -exclusive nor prohibitory on the action of the States, except so far as it was
actually exercised by Congress, aqd thus came in conflict with
the laws of the States. These are some of his words: "The repugnancy of the law of Delaware to the Constitution is placed entirely on its, repugnancy to the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several
States, a power which has not been so .exercised as t6 affect
the question." (2 Peters, 252.)
The Chief Justice in -another case held that a power being
vested in Congress was not enough to bar State action entirely, and that it did not forbid by silence as much as by
action. He says, - "It is not the mere existence-of the power,
but its exercise, which is incompatible with the exercise of the
same power by the States. It is -not the right to establish
these uniform laws, but their actual establishment, which is
inconsistent with the partial acts of the States." (Sturges v.
Crowninshield, 4 Wheaton, 195, 196.) And in 16 Peters, 610,
Justice Story admits "that no uniform rule of interpretation
can be applied to it. [the Constitution], which may not allow,
even if it does not positively demand, many modifications in
its actual application to particular clauses."
Hence, if the power "to regulate commerce" be regarded
by us as exclusive, so far as respects its operations abroad, or
without the limits of the country, because the,nature 'of the
grant requires it, to be exclusive there, and not exclusive so
far as regards. matters consequent on it -which are within the
limits of a State, and not expressly prohibited to it nor conflicting with any thing done by Congress, because the nature
of th~e grant does not require it to be so there, we exercise

JANUARY

TERM, 18,49.

561

Passenger Cases.-Mre Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

then what appears to be the spirit of a wise conciliation, and
are able to reconcile several opinions elsewhere expressed,
some as to the concurrent and some as to the exclusive character of the power "to regulate commerce." It may thus be
exclusive as to some matters and not as to others, and every
thing can in that aspect be reconciled and harmonious, and
accord, as I have before explained, with the nature and reason
of each case, the only constitutional limits where no express
restrictions are imposed. I.am unable to see any other practical mode of administering the complicated, and sometimes
conflicting, relations of the Federal and State governments,
but on a rule like this. And thus deciding the cases as they
arise under it, according to the nature and character of each
case and each grant, some indicating one to be exclusive, and
some indicating another not to be exclusive; and this, also, at
times, as to different kinds of exercise of power under one and
the same grant. (See Justice Johnson, 9 Wheat. 235-239.)
There is another view of this question which leads to like
results. If the opposite opinions mean only that the States
cannot, after express grants to the general government, legislate on them for and in behalf of the general government, and
not simply for themselves in local matters, - cannot legislate for
other States without their own limits, extra territorium,or as
to general uniformity, general conduct, or the subject-matter
over the whole country, like naturalization and bankruptcy, then there is no difference between the spirit of those opinions
and my own. But if they are construed to mean, that after
such a grant, with no express prohibition on a State to act for
itself alone on the matter, and none implied from their relations to the general government and the nature of the subject,
a State cannot make such regulations and laws for itself, and
its own people, and local necessities, as do not violate any act
of Congress in relation to the -matter, I do not think they are
supported either by sound principle or precedents.
Necessities for a different course have existed, and ever must
exist, in the complex movements of a double set of legislators
for one and the same people.
They may> crowd :against each other in their measures
,lightly and doubtingly, but that, as beforb shown, is not
sufficient to annul and override those of the States, as there
must be for that disagreeable consequence a direct conflict, a
plain incompatibility. (3 Stor. -Com.on Const. 434 ;. New
Bedford Bridge Case, '1 Woodb. & Min. 417, 418; 9 Wheaton,
238.)
I This, circumstance shows, also, that the argument to avoid
State legislation is not sufficient wlei it discovers some differ-

562

SUPREME

COURT.

Passenger Cases.-Mr; Justice Woodbury's Opinion.
ent spirit -or policy in the general measures of the States from
that in - the general government. - The States have a right to
differ in opinion, -some are very likely often to differ. But
what clause in the Constitution makes such an instance of independence a nullity, or makes a different object an illegitimate
one ? To be a nullity, it must oppose what'has been actually
done or prescribed by Congress, and in a case where it has no
reserved power to act differently from Congress. We have
already seen that an indirect reduction of the revenue of the
general government by the -license laws, when passed under a
legitimate power, and with a different legitimate view, did not
render them unconstitutional, nor does this, under like circumstances, though it may indirectly operate in some measure
against emigration.
If it did, a law by a State to favor the consumption of its
own products would be pronounced void, and so would be a
high tax by a State on wharves or stores, as all these would
somewhat embarrass and render more expensive the business
coiffected with foreign commerce. So this condition imposed
on passengers. after their arrival might in some degree affect
the business and commerce of carrying them to that State,.
when the alien passengers are taxed before they are permitted
to land.
There are two classes of grants to which this rule now under consideration is applicable, and the force of it will be -more
striking when they are examined separately. One includes
grants where Congress has acted, and continues to act, in
relation to them; and the other, where it has never acted, or,
if it has once acted, has ceased to do so.
Now, the vindication for the States to act in the last class is,
that, unless each State is considered authorized still to legislate
for itself, the subject-matter will be without any regulation
whatever, and a lawless condition of things will exist within
the heart of the community, and on a matter vital to its
interests. Such is now the case as to -weights and measures,
Congress never having legislated to produce uniformity concerning thpm, though the power is expressly granted to it in
the Constitution.
Now, on the construction that such a grant of power is exclusive, and, whether exercised or not, it is unconstitutional for
any State to legislate on the subject for itself; and, moreover,
that Congress does in truth regulate by its silence as mu~h as,
by its action, and when doing nothing about it virtually, enacts
that nothing shall be' done about it by any of the States, it
will follow that not only all the legislation by the States on
weights and measures since 1789 is illegal and void, but all

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

563

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

their legislation now existing on matters of bankruptcy, and in
respect to the disciplining of the militia, and imposing taxes on
land, is also void. For the powers over all these, are expressly
ceded to Congress, and are not now regulated by any .existing
acts of Congress, though all except weights and measures once
have been. The argument alluded to, if sound, would thus be
strong, that Congress, having once acted- on these and ceased
to, means that nothing more shall be done.
On this exclusive principle, though the action of the States
on them is not forbidden expressly- in the Constitution, nor
impliedly beyond what grows out of any express grant, all
the States in the Union are disarmed from any action whatever
on such matters, and all their laws on these topics, so essential
to their domestic industry and trade, their public security and
political existence by means of revenue, are to be considered
null and void.
The catastrophe which would follow on such a construction
has led this court, as heretofore explained, to hold that the
States still possess a concurrent power to act on matters of
bankruptcy, the discipline of the militia, taxati6n of land, and
some subjects of commerce; and. like considerations would
undoubtedly lead them, when the cases arise, to hold, that,
notwithstanding such grants, the laws of the States, not conflicting with any passed by the general government on many
other such topics, must be considered valid. Indeed, it seems
conceded by some of the members of the courtin this case, that
the States are, by some power coirdinate or subordinate, rightfully legislating on weights and measures, pilots, bankruptcy,
the militia; &c. But if they have not this power without any
grant or license by Congress, they cannot have it-by any such
grant, because Congress is not empowered by the Constitution
to grant away powers vested in it by the people and the States;
and how can it hereafter, by legislation, give any power to them
over this subject-if not having it now ?
Again, iu the other class of cases, where Congress has already legislated' and still legislates, some time elapsed before it
passed laws on any subject, and years before it acted at all on
,some of them; and in almost the whole, its first legislation
was only a beginning and in part, doing more and more from
time to time, as experience and the exigencies of the country
seemed to require. It is not necessary to repeat here several
detailed illustrations and cases on this collected in the case of
the United -States v. New Bedford .Bridge, 1 Woodb. & Min.
430. In the meati time, the States continued tQ exercise their
accustomed powers, and have ever since done-it on all matters
not f6r-bidden expressly in the Constitution, not exclusive in

564

SUPREME COURT.
'Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

their nature, and not conflicting with actual provisions in relation to them already made under the general government.
(14 Peters, 594.)
To,show, further, that these grants of power are not always
and necessarily exclusive, and that legislation on them by Congress to any extent is not as prohibitory on the States where
it is silent as where it enacts, the States' have not only continued to punish .crimes which Congress could punish, but
they have, in numerous instances, regulated matters connected, Tocally at least, with commerce abroad, and between the
States, and with the Indians.
In so large a territory as the jurisdiction, of the general government embraces, in so many and so diversified topics as come
before it, and in the nature of its supervisory powers on certain
subjects, requiring action only on what is general and foreign,
and to produce uniformity merely as to that, it becomes&almost
inevitable that many local matters and details must be left to
be regulated by some local authorities. Yet, as explained in
the License Case., like the by-laws of corporations, made by
them and not thc legislature, they must not conflict with the
general regulations or laws prescribed by the paramount power.
But,.so far from being exclusive, even while it is exercised,
and much less while it is dormant or unexercised, the paramount power summons to it§ aid, in order to be effective, the
contemporaneous and continued action of others. Thus not
only moneyed corporations, but towns and cities, must make
numerous by-laws in order to enforce the general provisions laid
down by the legislation of the State. Thus, too,* this court
must make numerous rules to carry into effect the legislation
of Congress in respect to it; and the War and the Navy Departments must compile and enforce volumes of regulations
of a like kind and for a like purpose, taking care, as allisubordinate power in such cases must; not to violate any general
law prescribed on the subject. (See 1 Woodb. & Min. 423.)
The condition of this whole country when colonies of England furnishes another illustration of the. relation and character
of such powers. The parent government at home was sovereign, and provided general regulations, either in acts of Parlia-"
ment or charters, but' still left the several colonies (and, surely
our States have as much power as they) to legislate as to details, and introduce any regulations- suited to their own condition and interests, not conflicting with the general provisions
made by the paramount power at home. .(I Bl. Com., by
Tucker, App..109, 110.
Indeed, what becomes of the whole doctrine of concurrent
powers on this hypothesis of exclusiveness in all mere grants,

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

565

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

and of the usage that the States may act in such concurrent
cases or local matters till their measures conflict directly with
those of Congress? (Ibid. 179.) Where is the line of distinction between a measure by the State which is void,
whether it conflict or not, and one which is not void till it comes
into actual collision with some law passed by the general government ? What becomes of the idea, that the power to
regulate foreign commerce is exclusive, and Congress may
prohibit the introduction of obscene prints under it, And yet
the Statesmay do the latter also, but touch nothing'connected
with conmmerce? Is not the introduction of these connected
with it? Cannot the States, too, patronize science and the
arts in various ways, though a like power is conferred on Conpatents and copyrights. (Livingston v.
gress by means of f572.)
Van Ingen, 9 Johns.
Nor do I understand the words of Mr. Justice Johnson, in
the case of Gibbons v. Ogden, in the sense attributed to them
by some. "The practice of our government," says he, "has
been, on many subjects, to occupy so much only of the field
open to them as.they think the public interests require." (9
Wheat. 234.) It is argued that this means to exclude State
action, where Congress has not occupied the field, as well as
where it has. Yet it seems plainly to be inferred, from other
words connected, that- he considers I' the power of the States
must be at an end so far as the United States have by their legislative ait taken the subject under their immediate superintendence." This means -the subject then under consideration.
But where have they so taken the subject of the admission of
alien passengers into States, and the terms of it, "under their
immediate superintendence "'? They may have regulated the
manner of their coming here, but where their maintenance
here when siick br poor, or likely to be poor? where their taxation here ?
They have regulated also their- naturalization in this country, but not under the grant of the power "to regulate commerce," or impose imposts on imports; but, knowing it was
not involved in either, a separate and express grant~was wisely
inserted in the Constitution to empower Congress to make
uniform rules on this subject.
It will be seen, that, where Congress legislates about foreign
commerce or passengers as connected with it, that legislation
need not, and does not, forbid the States to legislate on other
matters not conflicting. Thus all will harmonize, unless we
interpolate, by mere- onstruction, a prohibitory clause either in
the law or in the Constitution. You may, if' you please, call
the power so exercised by Congress exclusive in one sense or
48
voL. vri.

566

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Casos.-Mr. Jstice

Woodbury's Opinion.

to one extent, but it is not inothers., It may be considered as
exclusive so far as it'goes, and still leave the rest of the feld
concerning them open to the States. Thus the right to regulate the number of passengers in vessels from abroad in proportion to the tonnage has been exercised by Congress, and may
be deemed the use of a legitimate authority. (3 Statutes at
Large, 448; 9 Wheat. 216..) So has it been exercised to exempt their personal "-baggage ", and. "tools" from imposts,
not, as some seem to suppose, their goods or merchandise. (1
Statutes at Large, 661.) But .this statute of Massachusetts
conflicts with neither: So Congress' provides for uniform
naturalization' of aliens, but this statute'does not interfere with
that. So Congress does not forbid passengers to come from
abroad; neither does this statute.
Again, Congress no-where stipulates or enacts, or by the
Constitution can do it, probably, as before suggested, that passengers shall not in their persons be .taxed on their arrival
within a State, nor terms be made as to their residenee within
them. Again,.the objection to this view' involves another apparent absurdity, - that, though the regulation of commerce
extends to passengers, it is not entirely exclusive in the general
government if they come with yellow-fever and the cholera,
and that they are then subject to State control and its quarantine expenses and fees; but are not, if they come with what
the State deems equally perilous. That is, if they.endanger
the health of the body, the power over them is not exclusive
in Congress, but if they endanger only the police of the State,
its pauper secuiities, and its economy, morals, and public peace.,
the power is exclusive in Congress, and goes to strip the State
of all authority to resist the intioduction of either convicts,
slaves, paupers, or refugees. If -these last only come in the
tracks of commerce in vessels from broad, and are enrolled as
passengers, the States cannot touch them, but may. seize on
*them at once if their bodies are. diseased. It -would be useful
to have that clause in the Constitutiorn pointed out which
draws such a novel line of discrimination.
In holding this measure to be a r~gulation of commerce, and,
exclusive. and hence void, wherever the power of Congress
over commerce extends, a most perilous principle is adopted in
some other respects; for that power, extends over the -land as
well as water, and to cQomnrce among the States and- with the
Indian tribes, no less than to foreign commerce. (See art. 1,
§ 8.) And if. it can abrogate a tax or terms imposed by
States in harbours over persons there, it may do so whenever
the power over commerce g4oes into the interior, and as t6 matters connected with it, and also between States-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

567

Passenger Cases. -Mr. Justice Woodbury's "0pinion.-

On this reasoning, passengers there in vessels' boats, wag,ons stages, or on. horseback, are as much connected with commerce as if they come in by sea; and they may consist of
paupers, slayes, or convicts, as well as of merchants or travellers for pleasure and personal improvement; and' thus all the
laws of Ohio, Mssissippi, and many .other States, either forbidding or taxing. the entrance of slaves or liberated blacks,
will be' nullified, as well -a those of almost every Atlantic
State, 'excluding paupers coming in from without their limits.
Congress has sanctioned at least five constitutions of States
exercising a power to exclude slaves, an& th introduction of
them as merchandise and for* ommercd. And how can this
be reconciled by those who would, reverse the jdgments below, on the ground that the commercial power is 'exclusive in
Congress and not-either concurrefit in one view or iidelend.ent in another, in some, particulars, in the States.
Another consequence from the opposite doctrine is, that, if
'Congress by regulating commerce acts exclusively upon'it, and
can admit whom it pleases as' passengers, independent of State
wishes,' it can force upon the States slaves or criminals, or
political incendiaries of the most dangerous character. And
furthermore, that it can do this only 'by admitting their personal baggage free, as doing that, 'it is argued here by some,
shows the owner must come" in free, and neither be excluded
nor taxed by the State after within her limits.
This makes the owner of the personal baggage a mere incident or appurtenant to the baggage itself, and renders, by analbgy, any legislation as -to taxing property more important 'than
taxing the person, anud, indeed, overruling and governing tie
person as subordinate and inferior. So, if Congress by making baggage free exonerates passengers froth a State tax, it ex.onerates all the officers and crews of 'vessels from State taxes;
for their personal baggage is as free as that of passengers.
They, too, are as directly connected with commerce as the
passengers; and by a' parity of reasoning, the absurdity follows, that, by admitting American vessels free of tonnage duties, the owners of them are also made free from State taxes.
. Every person acquainted with the tariff of the general government knows that specially declaring a box or chest of apparel "free" does not exonerate any thing else or any other
article, much less can it any person, if taxed by a State law.
On the contrary, all things' not. specially taxed, nor specially
declared C1free," have'a duty imposed on them by'Congress as
non-enumerated articles, and. so would. passengers, if imports,
and if Congress had a right to tax them. -And if saying. noth'ing about passengers would imply-.that they were free from.

568

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbuiy's Opinion.

taxes of the United States, much more of the States, why is
it necessary to declare in terms any article "1free," when
silence would make it so? The real truth rather is, that Congress has no right to tax alien friends, or exclude them, and'
hence tie silence. -This statute, then, contravenes no act of
Congress on this matter of passengers.
And while all the legislation of Congress as to passengers
operates onthem-at sea during the voyage, except imposts being forbidden on their baggage, which is solely within the jurisdiction of Congress, all the legislation of Massachusetts
operates on them after their arrival in port, and without any
attempt then to, impose any duty on their baggage. The for-mer legislation by Congress, regulating their number in proportion to the tonnage, is, as it should be, extra territorium; the
latter, as it should be, infra territoriumr;and thus both are
proper, and the jurisdiction over either is not exclusive of that
exercised by the other, orconflicting materially with it..
Having considei~d the different general grounds which can
be urged in support of this statute, and the objections made in
opposition to them, I shall proceed, before closing, to submit a
few remarks on some miscellaneous topics relied on to impeach
its provisions. One is a supposed conflict between this statute
and some treaties of the general government.
I am aware .that a tax or fee on alien passengers, if large,
might possibly lead to collision with those foreign govemments,- such as Great Britain and Prussia, with whom we have-treafies allowing free ingress and egress to our ports. (See S
Stat. at Large, 116, 228, 378.) But neither-of them complains
in this instane, and I do not consider this law as conflicting
with.any such provisions in treaties, since none of them profess to exempt their people or their properLy from State taxation after they arriye here.
If such a stipulation were made by the general government,
it would be difficult to maintain the doctrine, that, by an ordinary treaty, it has power to restrict the rights and powers of the
several States any further than the States have by the Constitution authorized, and that, this has ever been authorized. But
it has not here been attempted; and these particular treaties
are subject to the ordinary laws of the States, as well as of the
general government, and -enable the citizens of those couitriks
merely to have free ingress -and egress here for trade, (see Treaty of 1794, art.. 3; -8Stat. at, Large, 117,) having no relation to
their. coming here as passengers to reside or for pleasure. Nor
can they-apply in the present case at all, as the record now
stands, finding only that the mastet was a British .subject or
his vessel British, but notthat, his passengers belonged to Great
Britain.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

.569

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's 9pinion.

The Prussian treaty does not appear to contemplate any
thing beyond the establishment of reciprocal duties, and a
treatment in other respects like "the most favored nations."
(8 Stat. at Large, 164.)
And who ever thought that these treaties were meant to
-empower, or could in any- moral or political view empower,
Great Britain io ship her paupers to Massachusetts, or send her
free blacks from the West Indies. into the Southern States or
into Ohio, in contravention of their local laws, or force on the
-States, so as to enjoy their protection and privileges, any persons from abroad deemed dariger6us,-such as her.felon convicts and the refuse of*her jails? -Again, so faz- as regards
the liberty of commerce *secured to British subjects in Europe by the fourteenth article of the treaty of 1794, it .does
not apply to those coming from the British Provinces in America, as did this vessel, (8 Stat. at Large, 124,) and by-the
eighteenth article of that treaty was to last *onlyten years (p.
125). And while it did last, it 'was expressly made " subject
always, as to what respects -his article, to the laws and stat-'
utes of the two countries respectively" .(p. 124).
Besides this, the whole of the treaty of 1794, including the
third article, probablry was suspended by the war of 1812 and
exists now only as modified in that of 1815, which gives to
British subjects no higher rights -than "other foreigners."
(Art. 1- 8 Stat. at -Large, 228.) The old Articles of Confederation contained a clause which indicated in a different form
like view' as 'to what was proper in -treaties, and indicates a
wise jealousy of power exercised in hostility to the.policy of
a State. That policy is never intended to be thwarted by any
arrangements with foreign nations by reciprocal treaties, as
they relate merely to the imposts on tonnage and cargoes by
the national governments, requiring them to be equal, and do liot
concern the port and harbour fees or expenses -imposed by the
local authorities for local' purposes. The best security that
these fees and taxes will never be unreasonably high and injurious to' foreigners is the tendency they would then have to
drive trade to other ports or countries contiguous, wherw they
might be lower.
The same right exists also in states to impose condi tions on
the selling of certain articles by foreigners and others within
their' limits, as a state may prefer to encourage its own products, or may deem the use of some foreign articles of bad influence in other respects. (Grotius on the Rights of Peace
and War, B. 2, ch. 2, § 20; License Cases, 5 Howard.)
Nor can I see; as has been urged, any collision between this
statute and- the act of Congress to carry into effect our coM-.48 *

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

mercial arrangement of 1830 with Gieat Britain. - (4 Stat. at
Large, 419.) The intention of that act does not in any respect seem to go beyond that of the treaties just referred to,
and in some respects is to have matters stand as they did before. Each side imposed charges and duties. They existed
in England and her colonies, as weUl as with us; but this arrangement sought only to have them not unequal nor prohibitory of trade, and not to discriminate against each- other by
general legislation. (See 1 Commerce and Navigation, State
Papers, 158; 4 Stat. at Large, 419.)
A few remarks as to some objections urged against the large
amount and the motive of this tax, and I have done.
If the payment was to be vindicated under the general taxing power alone, it is clear that the aumount could not affect
*the question- of the cons titutionality of the tax. And if it
was very high, considering its, professed object "for the support of foreign paupers," and was applied in part to other objects, that is a matter within the discretion of the State, aid
if it proved oppressive, and thus diverted this kind of business
,to the ports of other States, it would, like all high taxes, react,
and be likely in time to remedy in a great degree the evil.
But viewed as a -police meastre, the amount of the payment
and the application of it may, in my view, have an important
bearing.
. Thus a State is authorized to impose duties on imports sufficient to defray the expenses of her inspection laws, but not
an amount disproportionate to them, nor to apljily the money
thus collected to other purposes.
It would seem that the same rule would govern her assessments to enforce her quarantine laws, 'and it could hardly be
tolerated, under the right to enforce them and demand sufficient to defray their charges, that they should be justified to'
collect enough more for other purposes, and thus apply the
quarantine funds to make roads or maintain schools.
In such events in these cases, either this court would be
obliged to declare void assessments which were clearly perverted and improperly collected and applied, or Congress, could
direct the excess to be paid into the treasury.of the general
government. (3 Elliot's Deb. 291.) Congress is in the Constitution expressly empowered to revise and control the sums
collected by the States ito defray the expenses of their ispection laws. (Art. 1, § 1(
1
A mere pretext in a law colorably for one object, but really
for another, as in condemning lands for public purposes when
the true object was different, though not to be presumed to be
done by any sovereign state; must, if clearly proved, be difficult

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

_671

Passenger Cases.-Mr. Justice Woodbury's Opinion.

to uphold. (West River Bridge v. Dix, 6 Howard, 548.) But
here .the amount of the tax, compared with the burden flung on
the State by foreign paupers, does not look so much like a
wish to prohibit entirely the entrance of alien passengers, and
thus disclose a covert design, hostile to the policy of the general government, as like a wish to obtain enough to cover the
expenses and trouble of maintaining such of them as, -though
not paupers, are likely to become so in the ordinary couse of human events. This is a highly important consideration in judging whether the law throughout looked really to the subject
of pauperism, and not to hostility towards emigration, nor, under the third section,, to revenue from foreign commerce, mdependent of the pauper system. It is unjust to regard such
provisions as intended to conflict with foreign commerce, when
there is another and local matter which they profess to reach,
and can and do honestly reach.
It is, therefore, too broad in some cases to say that the object
and motive of the State in requiring the payment, or the
amount demanded, is of no importance, because, though the
great question is a question of power, yet the object and motive
may bring it within some existing power, when a different object or motive would not. The different purpose in a State
often shows that there is no collision or wrong, and justifies
(4 Wheat. 196, 9 Wheat. 335, Baldwin's
the measure.
Views, 193.)
So, as to the amount demanded, it might be sufficient only"
for a legitimate State object, and hence might be constitutional,
as, for instance, to pay the expenses of inspection laws, when
a much larger amount would not be permissible, if too much
for the particular object deemed constitutional. But in this
case, as no excess is shown on the record, a conclusive opinion
on this point is unnecessary
This construction of the Constitution, upholding concurrent
laws by a State where doubts exist and it is fairly open for
adoption, has much to commend it in this instance, as the
States, which singly become feebler and weaker daily as their
number and the whole Union increases, being now thirty to
one, instead of thirteen to one, will not thus be rendered still
feebler, aid the central government, daily becoming more powerful and strong, will not thus be rendered still stronger. So
the authority of the latter will not thus, by mere construction,
be made to absorb and overwhdlm the natural and appropriate
rights of sovereign States, nor mislead them by silence. Leaving this matter also to each will not conflict with any existing
action of the general government, but promote and sustain the
peaceful operations of both in their appropriate spheres.

579

SUPREME COURT.
Passenger Cases.-Orders of Court.

It will operate justly among the States, no less than between
them and the general government, as it will leave each to
adopt the course best suited to its peculiar condition, and not
leave one helplessly borne down with expenses from foreign
sources while others are entirely free, nor draw the general
government, in order to remedy such inequalities, into a system of police and local legislation, over which their authority
is doubtful, as well as their ability to provide so well for local
wants as the local governments, and those immediately interested in beneficial results.
A course of harshness towards the States by the general
government, or by any of its great departments, -a course of
prohibitions and nullifications as to- their domestic policies in
doubtful cases, and this by mere implied power, -is a violation
of sound principle, will alienate and justly offend, and tend
ultimately, no less than disastrously, to dissolve the bands of
that Union so useful and glorious to all concerned.
"E:Libertas ultima mundi,
Quo steterit, ferienda loco."

In conclusion, therefore, I think that,, in point of law, the
conduct of the State in imposing this condition or paymeift on
alien passengers can be vindicated under its police rights to
provide for the maintenance of paupers, and under its authority
as a sovereign State to decide on what conditions or terms
foreigners, not citizens of any of the United States, shall'be allowed to enjoy its protection and privileges, and under its concurrent powers of taxation over every thing but imports and
tonnage. I think, too, 'that this power in the State is not
taken away by the authority ceded to Congress, either to tax
imports and tonnage, or to prohibit the importation of persons
(usually limited to slaves), or t6 regulate commerce.
Orders.
SMITH V.

TuRNEa.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record of the Court for the Trial of Impeachments and the Correction of Errors of the State of New York, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this
court, that the statute law of New York, by which the healthcommissioner of the city of New York is declared entitled to
demand and receive, from the master of every vessel from a
foreign port that should arrive in the port of said city, the sum
of one dollar for each steerage passenger br6ught in such vessel, is repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United
States, and therefore void. Whereupon, it is now here ordered

JANUARY TERM, 1849;

573

Tyler v.'Hand et al.

and adjudged by thtis court, that the judgment of the said Court
for the Trial of Impeachments and the Correction of Errors be'
and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and- that this cause
be and the same is hereby remanded to the said.Court for the
Trial of Impeachments and the.Correction of Errors, in order
that further proceedings may be had therein, in conformity to
the aforesaid opinion and judgment of this court.
NounIs v. C0r- OF BosToN.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the
opinion of this court, that the third section of the' act of the
legislature of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts of the 20th
of April, 1837, entitled, 11A n act -relatig.to, alien passengers,"
under which the money mentioned in the record and pleadings
was demanded of the plaintiff in.error; and paid by him, is repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the United States, and
therefore void. Whereupon, it is now here ordered and adjudged b this court, that the judgment -of the said Supreme
Judicial Court of. Massachusetts be and the same is hereby re.versed, with costs, and that this cause be and the same is hereby
remanded to the said Supreme Judicial Court, in order that
further proceedings may be had therein in conformity to the
aforesaid opinion and judgment of this court.

JOnN TmEu, wno IS A CITIZEN OF VIRGINIA,. PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, AND SUCCESSOR IN OFFICE OF MARTIN VAN BuREN,
AND TRUSTEE FOR THE USE OF THE ORPHAN CHILDREN PROVIDED
FOR IN THE NIxNETEENTH ARTICLE OF THiE TREATY WITH THE CHOCTAWS, OF SEPTEMBER, 1830, PIAINTIFF IN ERRORI, V. JOHN H.

HAND, JOHN HuDDLESTON, AND ToxA s

G. BLEwETT, DEFENDANTS

IN ERROR.
A general demurrer by the defendant, assigning reasons why the plaintiff should not
recover, must be considered and treated as a special demurrer, which is an objection for defects in form.
In this case, none of the reasons are valid as objections to a matter of form, but the
court, nevertheless, *l examine them as if brought forward. to sustain a general
demurrer.
Where bonds were given to the President of the United States, and his successors in
office, for the use of the orphan children of certain Indians, and the deplaration so
averred, it was not a good cause of demurrer to iflege that they were taken without authority of law. They were valid instruments, though voluntarily given and
not prescribed by law; and as the demurrer admitted the facts sated in the
declaration, the defendant was estopped from contesting the right of the obligee
to sue.

SUPREME' COURT.
Tyler v. Hand et al.
So, alsO'was not a valid reason to ay, in support of the demurrer, that the bonds
were giveif without consideration; and if there was any illegality in the transaction, it should have been pleaded in bar.
Where the defendant demurred, and assigned as a reason that the place of abode of
the plaintiff, or his Aight to sue, was not set forth in the declaration, it was demuring in abatement, and the judgment of the court, if the demurrer be overruled,
-will be final for the plaintiff.
So, also, it is not a good ground for the defendant to say that the plaintiff has shown
no title to the bonds. It is not a good objection to a matter of form or substance.
Nor was it a good ground of demurrer to say that the cestui W use was not named
in the declaration. The demurrer admits that the recital of the use in the declaration was correct, and it was not necessary for the plaintiff to set out the individual uses, when the uses wer6 general in the bonds.

THis cause was brought up, by writ of error, from the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Mississippi.
The circumstances were these.
By the treaty of Dancing Rab]bit Creek, of the 27th September, 1830, the Choctaw nation ceded to the "United States the
entire country they owned and possessea east of the Mississippi
River. The nineteenth article (7 Stat. at Large, 336, 337),
allowing certain reservations to be made, by its sixth section
provides as follows: "Sixthly.'Likewise, children of the Choctaw nation, residing in the nation, who have neither father nor mother a list
of which, with satisfactory proof of parentage and orphanagei
being filed with the agent in six months, to be for*arded to
the War Depaftment, shall be entitled to a quarter-section of
land, to be located under the direction of the President; and
with his consent the same may be sold, and the proceeds
applied to some beneficial urpose for the benefit of said

.orphans."
- The number of orphans entitled to. the provision above recited was one hundred and thirty-four; and the lands having
been selected, the same were sold in quarter-sections at public
sale in- 1838, by Mr. Aaron V. Brown, under the direction ofPresident Van Buren, for a sum amounting to upwards of one
hundred and thirty-five thousand dollars. -The purchasers
were entitled to a credit of two, four, and six years, were to
give security for the payment of the purchase-money, with
interest, and no title was to be given until the whole amount
of principal and interest was paid. Thomas G. Blewett became a purchaser of several pieces of the land, and, together
with John H. Hand and John Huddleston, executed joint and
several b6nds. to "Martin Van Buren, President of the United
States, and his successors in office, for the use. of the orphan
children provided for in the nineteenth article of the trea'ty
with the Choctaws of September, 1830." The bonds bore the.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

575

Tyler v. Hand et al.

following dates, and were for the following sums of money,
viz.: 1838, May 28,
"
cc

"

"

9

"

c

"

"

"

"

$ 300
300
300
300
600

1838, May 28,
"
June 6,
cc
cc "
"
"
C
"
" C

$,250
300
300
350
450

The bonds were given as security for the payment of the,
interest upon certain notes for the principal, which last-mentioned notes were recited in the above ten bonds.
In Ma, 1843, John Tyler. as President of the Utiifted States,
brought an action of debt upon these bonds in the DiStrict
Court for the Northern District of Mississippi, which exercised
the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court.
The declaration contained a count for each separate bond,
the first of which was as follows, viz. "John Tyler, who is a citizen of Virginia, President of the
United States,' and successor in office of Martin Van Buren,
and trustee for the use -of the orphan children provided for in
the nineteenth article of the treltr with the Choctaws of September, 1830, by attorney, complainj of Thomas G. Blewett,
John Huddleston, and John H. Hand,, citizens of the State of
Mississippi, being in the custody of the marshal, &c., of a plea
that they render unto him. the sum of thirty-four hundred and
fifty dollars., which to him they owe, and from him unjustly
d6tain; for that whereas the said defendants, by the way and
style of Thomas G. Blewett, John Huddleston, and J. H. Hand,
heretofore, to wit, on the 28th day of May, A. D. 1838' at, to
wit, in the district aforesaid, by their certain writing obligatory,
sealed with their seals, and now here to the court shown, the
date whereof is a certain day and year theiein mentioned, to
wit, the day and year aforesaid, jointly and severally acknowledged themselves to be held and firmly bound to Maitiri Van
Buren, President of the United States, and his successors- in
office, for the use of the orphan children provided for in the
nineteenth article of the treaty with the Choctaws of September, 1830, in the sum of three hundred dollars, to be paid to
the said Martin Van Buren,' President as aforesaid, and his successors in office, in good and lawful money of the United
States; and the said plaintiff avers that he is President of the
United States, and a successor in office of Martin Van Buren,
which said writing obligatory was and is subject to a condition
thereunder -written, to wit, that whereas the said Thomas G.
Blewett, on the 28th day of May, 1838, at a public sale of the
Choctaw orphan lands, -had and held in the town of Columbus,

SUPREME COURT.
Tyler v. 3Hand et al.

became and was the purchaser of northwest quarter of section
thirty-two, township twenty-three, range eight east,-for which
the said Thomas G. Blewett has executed his three several
notes with Thomas McGee, John Huddleston, -and John H.
Hand-, his securlty, to Martin Van Buren, President of the
United States, for the use of the Choctaw orphan. children provided for in the niheteenth article of the treaty'with the Choctawi of September, 1830, to wit, one note dated the 28th day
of May, 1838, and due the 28th day of May, 1840, for two hundred and fourteen dollars and twenty-six'cents; one other, note
of same date and amount, due the 28th day of May, 1842 : and
one other note of the same date and amount, due the. 28th day
of May, 1844. All of said several bonds or notes, by the terms,
of said purchase, are to bear interest from their date at the rate.
of six per cent. per annum. Now, if said Thomas G,. Blewett
shall pay or cause to be paid interest at . the rate of.six per.
centum per annum on said several notes at the expiration of
each and every year from the 'date of the same, in- good and
lawfulmoney of the United States, at the office of the Com.missioner of Indian Affairs, in Washington city, then this
obligation to be void, otherwise to be good and binding as by
the. said writing obligatory, and the condition thereof will more
fully and at large appear.
"Nevertheless," &c. (setting out the breach).
To this declaration, the defendants filed the following demurrer, viz. "And said defendants, by attorney, come and defend the
wrong and injury, whefi, &c., and say that the plaintiff ought
not to have or maintain his aforesaid action thereof against
them, because they say that the declaration and matter .therein
contained are insufficient in law for the plaintiff to maintain
his aforesaid action thereof against them, -and that they are
not bound by law to answer the same, and this they are ready
to verify; wherefore, they pray judgment, and that the plaintiff be barred from having or maintaining his aforesaid action
thereof' against them, and according to che statute they state
.
and show the following causes of demurrer, viz.
"1st. That there is no sufficient averment in the proceedings or record showing the citizenship or place of abode
of the plaintiff, -or that he is, by reason of the nature of his
place of abode and citizenship, qnt tled by law to maintain said
suit,
"2d. That the plaintiff, shows no title to the bonds or obligations-sued on, nor such an interest in the suit as will authorize him to maintain the same.
"3d. That the parties for whose use-the suit is brought (who,

JA91JARY TERM, 1849.

577

Tyler v. Hand et al.

by the laws of Mississippi, are the real plaintiffs, and responsible
for costs) are not named in the record.
. - 4th. That said bonds sued on were taken without authority
of lawy the said Martin Van Buren, President of 'the United
States, having.no such delegated pbwer, and having no right
to make the Isame payable to himself and his tuccessors in
office, or to assume to himself or his successors in, office a legal
perpetuity and succession unknown to the said office and noqt
given by. law.
"5th. That said bonds in the declaration mentioned appear,
from the face of the pleadings, to have been given without
any .actuial consideration, .and -by virtue of an assumption of
authority on the part of said Martin Van 'Buren to dispose of
said orphan Indian lands at public sale,, without any legal right
to sell the same, . And btcause the said declaration is in other
respects informal aid insuffi6ient."
The plaintiffs joined in demurrer, and in December, 1844,
the case was argued upon the 'demurrer, which was sustained
by the-court.
To review this judgment, a writ of error brought the case up
to this court.
It was argued at the preceding term, and held under a curia
advisarevult.
It was argueid, ona- the pait of the plaintiff in error, by Mr.
Clifford, then Attorney-General, and o4 the part of the defendants in error, by Mr. Eaton and Mr. Fbote, with whom
were Mr S. Adams and Mr. Bibb.
The Attorney-General, for the plaintiff in error, stated -the
facts in the case, and proceeded as follows.
For error it is assigned,1st. That the suit was well brought in the name of John
Tyler, a citizen of the State of Virginia.
2d. That the plaintiff, as the successor of President Van
Bren, had title to the bonds *sued-on,
3d. ,That there was no necessity that -the parties for whose
use th suit .was brodightshould be named in the record.
4th. That the bonds' sued on were lawfully taken to Mr.
Van Buren, as President, and his successors in office.
5th. That Mr. Van Baren had authority to dispose of the
lands, and that there was no failure of consideration.
I. The declaration avers, that John Tyler, the plaintiff, is a
citizen of the State of-Virginia, President of the United States,
and successor in.-office of Martin Van Buren. This is the
usual mode of averring citizenship, and meets the requirements
of the Constitution and the Judiciary Act on the subject.
vo: vil.
49

578

_SUPREVE COURT.
Tyler v. Hand et al.

II. The-declaration avers, that the bonds were taken payable io Martin Van Buren, President of the United States, and
his. successors in office. If Mr. Van Buren had any title, to the
bonds in question while President, and as President, then Mr.
Tyler, as his successor, had the same title. The title was not
-in Mr. Van Buren individually, but in him as President. The
bonds -were executed to him as President of the United States,
and his successors; and the suit is well brought in the name of
Mr. Tyler, who was in office at the time it was commenced.
No principle is better settled than the one which asserts that
no suit could be commenced in the name of Mr. Van Buren
after he had retired from the office of President, and of course
it must be brought in the name of his successbr, according to
the terms of the bond. This is the law and the contract.
The point is destitute of all merit, as it seems to me, and need
not be further examined.
III. There is no law requiring a plaintiff who sues as trustee
to name in the record the parties for whose use the suit is
brought; and if there were, it could not apply to a case like
the preent. It-is presumed the demurrer is.based upon the
thirtieih section of the process act of Mississippi, which falls
far short of sustaining the position assumed by the defendants.
It provides that, "if any suit or action shall be commenced in
any court of record in this State, in the name of any person
for the use and benefit of another, the same shall not abate by
the death of the noininal plaintiff, but shall progress to final
judgment, and execution may be awarded thereon in like manner as if brought in the name of the person for whose use or
benefit such suit or action was instituted, who shall be liable
for the costs of suit -as in other cases." (H. & H. Miss. Laws,
584.)
I The act nowhere makes any such requirement as is supposed by the demurrer. It authorizes the suit to progress,
notwithstanding the death of the nominal plaintiff; and in
such cases costs are allowed.
This action is therefore well brought 'in the name of the
trustee, who must hold whatever may be recovered, subject to
the disposition which the law authorizes and directs, for the
benefit of the cestui que trust. The point, being unaffected by
the Mississippi act, stands upon general principles, which are
clearly against.the defendants.
The description given of the cestui que trusts in the declaration follows. the language of the bond, and is therefore sufficient. It might, -however,' have been wholly omitted, and,
being entirely immaterial, may be rejected as surplusage, and
cannot embarrass the suit.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

.579

Tyler v. -- and. et al.

IV. That these bonds were lawfully taken, and made payable to the President for th4 time being, and to -his successors
in office, there can be no doubt. To take securities for the
lands sold, if it should be deemed most advantageous for the
interests of the Indian orphans that they should be sold on
credit, was not only an incident to the power to make the-sale,
but an obvious duty incumbent on the President. It was no
more than an act of common prudence to see that the securities
were exeduted in such form that payment could be enforced,
if delayed beyond the period when he might expect to retire
from office, and to leave the trust reposed in him in the hands
of a successor. United States v. Tingey, 5 Peters, 115; Lord
v. Dall, 12 Mass. 115; Dugan v. United States, 3 Wheat.
172; Commonwealth v. Wolbert, 6 Binney, 292.
V. The fifth ground of demurrer raises the main question involved in the case. The defendants contend that the
bonds were given without any actual consideration; the President having, as they allege, no authority to. dispose of the
lands.
The first question is, Can this point be raised on the :ecord
as it stands ? The declaration does not state of whom the purchase was made, or by what athority the sale took place.
Until it otherwise appears, it niuist be presumed that it was
made by virtue of a lawful authority. - A bend under seal imports a consideration without its being expressed; and a want
or failure of consideration is not sufficient at law to'a;void a
specialty.
(Vrooman v. Phelps, 2 Johns. 177; Dorlan v.
Sammis, lb. 179; Dorr v. Munsell, 13 Johns. 430.) A note
in Petdrsdorff's Abridgment, Vol. IV. p. 613, cites a number
of cases to the same effect, and defines the true rule on the
subject.
It is a very great error, as it seeni-to me, to suppose that
there is any want of consideration in these bonds appearing on
the face of the record and pleadings-. It is a familiar principle
that, the demurrer admits every thing that is well pleaded;
and under this rule the point is nct open to the defendants even
by the Mississippi statute, which requires a special plea to
authorize a party " to impeach any writing under seal, or to go
into the consideration of the same2. (H. & H. Miss. Lawp,
589.)
But was it competent for the President to direct the sale. of
these lands? It is contended, on the part of the -defendants,
that he had no such authority, but that the Indian orphans
took a fee-simple estate under the treaty, as tenants in coinmon, and that they were in all respects competent to dislhse
of the lands thusvested-in them, subject only to the consent.of-

580

•SUPREME

COURT.

Tyler v. Hand et al.

the President for the time being.. It is, however, insisted for
*the plaintiff, that the terms of the-provision do not in the-least
degree countenance any such construction of the treaty. It
might;. perhaps, be considered a sufficient answer to this proposition of the defendants, to ask the attention of the court to
the fact,-that no, particular Indian, for whose benefit the lands
were to be reserved and selected, is named in this 'provision.
Even the number entitled. 'was unknown,'and had to be subsequently ascertained in virtue of the 'tipulation under which
this pretension is set up.
The true intent and 5urpose of the provision seems to me
to be apparent. It was to, create a trust for the benefit of the
orphans, of which the President of the Ubited States was declared to be the"ustee, 'nd which he was to. execute. The
objedt of the trust was to create a fund .for the benefit of the
orphans, in which all were to participate equally. This is the
leading idea in the provision. The construction contended for
on the other side would defeat the end intended to be accomplished." The language of the provision is not, it is admitted,
precise, but its true meaning and intention cannot well be mistaken. When the number of orphans entitled had been ascertamined in the manner prescribed, and the list of them f6rwarded
to the War Department, the lands were to be located under the
direction of the President, and with his consent sold, and, with
the like consent, the proceeds were to be applied for s ome
beneficial purpose for the benefit of the orphans. The legal
title to the lands in question was vested in the United States,
and Was' held by them in subordination to this provision, giving authority to the President to sell and invest the proceeds
for some beneficial object in accordance with the trust. That
the legal title to the whole lands of the Choctaw nation east
of the Mississippi became vested in the United States is clear,
not- only from the third article by which the cession is made,
but from the fourteenth, which provides for reservations to such
Choctaws as were degirous to become citizens of the United
States, and especially from the provision'which stipulates that
grants in fee simple should issue from the United States to this
class of Indians. The other reservations in the nineteenth
article are to certain parties by name, and to certain classes of
the.Indians who had made improvements, and furnish no argument to illustrate" this case. 'These reservations' stand' on a
very differetit footing from those of the orphans. They were
ascertained and certain, and constituted the homes in which the
'Ipdians lived. But in the case of the orphans, the lands had
no identity, and,, when selected, were to' be sold to raise a fund
for their benefit.
-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

581

Tyler v. Hland et aL

Mr. Eaton and Mr. Foote, for the defendants in error,
rested their argument upon the point that the President had no
power to order the sale; that the treaty secured to him no
such authority, and that if he could be considered in the character of trustee, even then he was incapable by law to delegate the trust to another, and being so delegated, the act and
every thing under it were void. This point was illustrated
with great particularity.
Mr. Adams contended that the court below did not err in
sustaining the demurrer, and that the judgment should be affirmed -lst. For the reasons that the President had no authority to sell, had no title in himself, nor obligation upon others
to .make title';' that he was not a trustee With power to sell for
the benefit of the Indians, or otherwise; and that the contract
is void for the want of proper parties and consideration. 2d.
That the fee is still in the reservees, who cannot be deprived
of it but by their own act, with the consent of the President,
or the law. 3d. For the reasons assigned in the first, second,
third, and fourth special causes of demu~rer.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit is brought upon ten bonds payable to Martin Van
Buren, President of the United States, and his successors in
office, for the use of the orphan children lrovided for in the
nineteenth article of the treaty with the Choctaw Indians
of September, 1830.
The principal and interest due upon the bonds are demanded, and the plaintiff in the action, John Tyler, sues as successorThe
of Martin
Van Buren and trustee for the orphan children.
defendants
have demurred to the plaintiff's declaration,
pursuing the usual form of a general demurrer, and, have added thereto several special causes of demurrer. There is a
joinder in demurrer. Upon these pleadings, the court below
sustained the demurrer of- the defendants. It is that judgment
which is now before this court by writ of error.
In our opinion, there is error in the judgment. We shall reverse it, with an order to the court below to enter up a final
judgment for the plaintiff.
-The cause is not before us on the grounds upon which it
was placed in argument by the counsel of the defendants, except as to the insufficiency of the facts averred in the plaintiff's
declaration to entitle him to recover, or to enable the defendants to sustain their demurrer.
A demurrer is an objection made, by one party to his oppdnent's pleading, alleging that he ought lot to answer it, for
49 *

582

SUPRk]ME

C ountS

Tylir v.Hand et al.

some defect in .law in the pleading. It admits tile facts, and
refers the law arising thereon to the court (Co. Lit. 71. b; 5
Nod. 132.) The opposite party may demur when his oppo-.
no;ntis pleading is defective in substance or form, but there can
ne no demurrer for a defect not apparent in the pleadings.
This being so, the question now is, whether or not, notwithstanding .the objections in substance and form which the defendants have -made to the plaintiff's declaration, sufficient
matter appear in the pleadings, upon which the court may
give judgment according to the very right of the case. Five
special causes -of demurrer are assigned; they were of course
mneant to be objections for defects in form, as .none othler can
be assigned in aa special demurrer. A general demurrer .ies
only for defects in -substance, and excepts to the sufficiency of
the pleading in general terms, without showing specially the
-nature of the objection. A special demurrer is .only for defects in form, and adds to the terms of a general d~murrer a
specification of the particular ground of exception.
Our first remark, then, is; that neither of the special causes
of demurrer alleged in this case is for a matter of form. They
are as follows :
" lst. That there is'no sufficient averment in the proceedings or record showing the citizenship or place of abode of the
plaintiff, or that he is, by reason of the nature of his place of
abode and citizenship, entitled by law to maintain said suit.
"2d. That the plaintiff shows no title to the bonds or obligations suied of, nor such an interest in'the suit as will authorize
him to maintain fhe same.
*"3d -That the parties for. whose use the suit is brought (who,
by the laws of Mississippi, are the real plaintiffs, and responsibhle for costs) are not named in the record.
" 4th. That said bonds sued on were taken without authority
of law, the said Martin Van Buren, President of the United
States, having no such delegated power, and having no right
to make the same payable to himself and his successors in
office, or to assume to himself or his successors in office a legal
perpetuity and succession unknowni to the said offide, and no.t
given by law.
"5th. That said bonds in the declaration mentioned appear,
from the face of the pleadings, to have been given without any
actual consideration, and by virtue of an assumption of authority on the part of said, Martin Van Buren to dispose of
said orphan Indian lands at public sale, without any legal right
to sell the same. And because the said declaration is in other
respectsinformal and insufficient."
The case, then, is before -the court upon a general demurrer,

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

583

Tyler v. Hand et al.

inwhich must be considered the whole record, and judgment
should be given for the party who on the whple appears to be
'entitled to it. (Le Bret v. Papillon, 4 Ep st,%02.) It cannot
b6 better shown in this case for whom the judgment should
be, than by showing that the special causes of objection assigned, supposing them to have been made as matters of, substance, are not sufficient in law to prevent a recovery by the
plaintiff. We will first speak of the fourth .and fifth, because
they are the chief reliance of the defendants to show that no
judgment can be rendered against them.
The fourth is, that the bonds given by the defendants were
taken without authority of law. The fifth is, that it appears
from the face of the pleaaings they were given without any
actual -consideration. Neither of these points can be raised in
this case by a demurrer. As to the first of the two, it was
not necessary to aver-in the declaration that the bonds were
taken with the authority of law, -nor is it so averred. The
bonds are made to the President of the United States and his
successors in office, for the use of the orphan children pr6vid•ed for in the ninoteenth article of the treaty with the Choctaw Indians of September, 1830. They are so recited in the
declaration, and are admitted by the defendants to have been
given by them. In point of law, then, they are valid instruments, though voluntarily given, and not prescribed by, lawy
(United States v. Tingey, 5 Peters, 115.) It is not the case
of a bond given contrary to law, or4 in violation of law, but
that of bonds given voluntarily for a consideration expressed
in them to a public officer, but not happening to be.prescribed
by law. Nor does it matter that they are made to the President of the United States and his successors in office, if the
political official character of the President is recognized in
them, and is so averred in the declaration. This cause of demurrer, whether well taken or not, admits" the fact that the
bonds were given, aud estops the defendants from denying it
as a matter of form, or from contesting by a demurrer the
right of the obligee and his successors in office to sue the obligors at law.
As to the alleged want .of consideration for
these bonds, as stated in the fifth special cause of demurrer,
that affords no ground for a demurrer, as a bond cannot be
avoided at law either for a want or failure of consideration,
and any thing illegal in the consideration can only be pleaded
in bar to the action. (Fallowes v. Taylor, 7 T. R. 475.)
But it is said that these bonds were given without any actual 'consideration, the President, as it is alleged, having no
authority to dispose, of. the land. What of that? The .declaration does not state of whom the purchase was made, or by

584

SUPREME COURT.
Tyler v. Hand et aL

what authority the 'sale took place. The defendants, admit
that a sale did take place, that they were purchasers of the
lands, and that they gave the bonds voluntarily, according to
the terms of sale. Neither of these questions, then, can be
raised under the demurrer of the defendants, and could not
have been the foundation of the judgment given in their
favor.
Having disposed of the fourth and fifth special causes of
demurrer, we will now inquire, in their order, whether or not
the judgment which was given can be sustained upon either
of the other alleged grounds.
The first is, "That there is no sufficient averment in the
proceedings showing the citizenship or place of abode of the
plaintiff, or that he is, by reason of the nature of his place of
abode and citizenship, entitled. by law to maintain this suit."
This cannot justify the judgment, because it is demurring in
abatement., In such a. case the plaintiff is entitled to final
jtfdg'ment.. If the matter of abatement be extrinsic, the defendant must 'plead it. If intrinsic, the court will act upon it
upon motion, or notice it of themselves.
(Dockminique v.
Davenant, Salk. 220.) But it does not follow, because a demurrer in abatement cannot be- available for the defendant,
that it is to be rejected altogether from the pleading, if tendered in 'proper time. It will be re'ceived, but being erroneously put in, it entitles the plaintiff to final judgment, so that
for this reason the judgment of the court below would have
to be reversed.

'

.

Perhaps the best exposirion of this point of pleading anywhere to be found is that. given in Furniss et al. v. Ellis and
Allen, in 2 Brockenbrough's Reports 17, by Chief Justice
Marshall. He says, " The cases quoted to show that the demurrer is not good, do not showthat even in England it ought
.not to be received, if tendered in proper Lime. In 5 Bac. Abr.
459, it is said, if a defendant demur in abatement, the court
will, notwithstanding, give a final judgment, because there
cannot be a demurrer in abatement.- This does not prove that
the demurrer shall be rejected, but that it shall be received,
and that the judgment upon it shall be final. A judgmen. on
a plea in abatement, or on a demurrer to a plea in abatement, is
not final, but on a demurrer.which contains matter in abatement it shall be final, because a demurrer cannot partake of
the character of a plea in abatement. Salk. 220; is quoted by
Bacon, and is to the same purport, indeed in the same words.
These cases show that a demurrer, being in its own nature a
plea to the action and being even in form a plea .to the action,
shall not be considered as a plea in abatement, though the

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

585

Tyler _..Uand -etsl

special cause alleged for demurring be matter of abatement.
This court will disregard these special causes, and, considering
the demurrer independently of them, will decide upon it as if
they had not been inserted -init." And then the Chief Jurtice adds, in respect to the particular case then- in hand, that
"these cases go far to show that the court would overrule the
demurrer, and decide the cause against the party demurring,
not that it should be expunged from the pleadings."
The second ground of special demurrer is, that the plaintiff
shows no title to the bbnds or obligations sued on, nor such-an
interest in the suit as will authorize him to maintain an action
on the'same. Neither fact stated is a matter of form, and cannot therefore be a cause for a special demurrer. But taking
them as matters of substance, the insertion of them in the
*plaintiffs declaration is not necessary to show his right to sue
and recover upon these bonds, or material for the defendants in
their plea. This objection will not avail to sustain the judgment.
The remaining objection to be considered is the third in
order stated, and may be as briefly and .s satisfactorily disposed of as some of the rest have been. It is, that the parties for whose use the suit is brought are not named, who by
the laws of Mississippi are the real plaintiffs, and responsible
for costs. We remark, that for whose use the bonds were taken
is, not recited as personal to any of the Choctaw orphans, but
as an aggregate for all such as were entitled to lands under the
nineteenth article of the treaty. The demurrer admits that
the bonds were so made by the defendants, and that tlhrecital in the declaration is as the fact is expressed in the bonds.
The inquiries, then, into who are individually the orphan children residing in the Choctaw nation, or who by name are entitled to a quarter-section of land, or any such averments in
the plaintiff's declaration, were not necessary to entitle him to
recover, and could not be shown either as a cause of special
deihrrer or be urged under a general demurrer, to prevent a
recovery in this case.
All of us are of the opinion, that there is nothing in the
causes of demurrer which were shown in argument, or in the
special causes assigned, to sustain the demurrer, 4nd thinking,
as we all do, that nothing has been shown to lessen the obligation of the defendants to pay these bonds, or their liability
to be sued for them at law, -we shall direct the judgment of
the court below to be reversed, with costs, and shall orddr the
cause to be remanded to the District Court,-with directions to
that court to enter judgment in this case (principal and interest) for the plaintiff in that court.

SUPREME COURT.

586

Kennedy's Executdrs et aL z).Hunt's Lessee-et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District -Court of the United States, for the
Northern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said District
Court in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed, with
costs, and that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded
to the said District Court; with directions to that court to enter judgment in this case for both principal and interest for the
plaintiff in that court.

ExEcuToRs ET AL., PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. LESSEE OF. JONATHAN HUNT, JOHN HAGAN ET AL., DEFENDANTS IN
ERROR.

JOSHUA KINNEDY'S

Forbes and Company obtained a grant of land in 1807 from Morales, IntendantGeneral uder the Spanish government4 which land was adjacent to Mobile, in
West Florida. This grant purported to be, in part, the confirmation of a concession granted in 1796 and surveyed in 1802. The survey terminated at highwater-mark upon the river.
The grant of 1807 included the land between the then bank of the river and the
high-water-mark of 1802.
This grant of 1807 wag excepted from the operation of the act of Congress
passed on the 26th of March, 1804, which annulled allSpanish grants made after
the 1st of October, 1800, and was recognized as a valid grant by the act of 3d
I
March, 1819. An act of March 2d, 1829, confirmed an incomplete Spanish concession which was
alleged to draw after it, as a consequence, certain riparian rights conflicting with
those claimed under the grant of 1807.
A decision of a State court, giving the land covered by these riparianrights to the
claimants under the grant of 1807, was only a construction of a perfected Spanish title, and cannot be reviewed by this court under the twenty-fifth section of
the Judiciary Act. It did not draw in question an act of Congress or any authority exercised under the Constitution or laws of the United States.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Alabama, by a writ of error, i~sued under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act.
The facts in the case are sufficiently set forth in the opinion
of the court.

" It w'as argued by M11r. John 0. Sargeit and Mr. Johnson,.
for the, plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Underwood and Mr.
Sargeant,for the defendants in error.
The points made by the coumsel for the plaintiffs in error
were the following.

