198

SUPREME

COU RT.

Smith et al. v. Kernochen.

•ord of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Illinois, and on the points and questions on which the judges
of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which
were certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the act
of Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this
-

court,---- 1st. That the corporate powers of the city of Chicago

have no riglht to open the streets through that part of. the
ground laid out into lots and-streets, but not sold by the government.
d. That the corporate powers of the city are limited to that part of the plat which, by sale of the government,
has become private property. And 3d. That the streets laid
out and dedicated to public use.by Birchard, by his surveying
the land into lots and streets, and making and recording a map
or plat thereof, did not convey the legal estate in the streets to
the city of Chicago, and thereby make the ground- embraced
by said streets "private property," so as to authorize said city
of Chiu.go to keep said streets open. Whereupon, it is now
here ordered and decreedby this court, that it be so certified
to the said Circuit Court.

JENNET SMITH, CALVIN S. POWE, AID THOMAS A.
TIFFS IN ERROR, V. JosEPH KERNOCHEN.

PowE,

PLAIN-

When a mortgagor and mortgagee are citizens of the same State, and the mortgagee
assigns the mortgage to a citizen of another State for the purpose of throwing the
case into the-Cireuit Court, it is necessary, in order to dives; the court of jurisdiction, to bring.home to the assignee a knowledge of this motive and purpose. Till
then, he must be considered an innocent purchaser without notice.
if the assignment was only fictitious, then the suit would in factbe between two
citizens of the same State, over which the court would have no jurisdiction.
The question of jurisdiction, in such a case. should have been raised by a plea in
abatement. Upon the trial of the merits, it was too late.
A former suit in chancery between the original parties to the mortgage involving directly the validity of that instrument, in which suit a bill to foreclose was dismissed, upon the ground that the mortgage was void, was good evidence in an ejectment brought by the assignee claiming to recover by virtue of the same mortgage.
'The instruutent had been declared void by a court of competent jurisdiction, and
neither the parties nor their privies could recover upon it.
There is'no difference, upon this point, between a decree in chancery and a verdict
at law. Either constitutes a bar to a future action upon the instrument declared
to be void. The authorities upon this point examined.
The highest court of the State of Alabama having decided that the original mortgagee (an incorporated company) violated its charter in the transaction which led
to the mortgage, this court adopts its construction of a statute of that State.

THE Reporter finds the following statement of the case, prepared by Mr. Justice Nelson, and prefixed to the opinion of the
court.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

199

Smith et al. v. Kernochen.

This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States-for the Southern District of the State of Alabama.
The plaintiff below, Kernochen, a citizen of New- York,
brought an action of ejectment against the defendants to recover the possession of eleven hundred and sixty acres of land,
situate in that State,'and to which he claimed title.
On the trial it appeared that Archibald K. Smith, being. the
owner in fee of the premises, executed a mortgage of the same,
on the 9th of April, 1839, to the Alabama Life Insurance and
Trust Company, a corporation duly incorporated by the legislature of the State of Alabama, to secure the sum of seven
thousand five hundred dollarg, payable in five equal annual
payments, with interest. And, further, that the mortgage, had
been duly assigned and transferred by that company to Kernochen, the plaintiff, in consideration of the sum of one thousand dollars, on the 26th of August, 1844. Possession. being
admitted by the defendants, the plaintiff rested.
It appeared, on the part of the defence,: that the n rtgage
and bond accompanying it, with other securities belornging to
the Life and Trust Company, were placed in the hands of Hunt
an agent of the company, to procure a loan of money in New
York; and that one thousand dollars was loaned, at his instance
and request, by the plaintiff to the company, for the security of
which the assignment of the above mortgage was mide. That
the motive of the company in making the assignment was to
obtain a decision of the Federal courts upon the questions decided in the court below, but that Kernochen was not advised
of the motive at the time of the advance of the money, nor was
he in any way privy to it.
It further appeared, that a bill of foreclosure of the mortgage
had been filed in the Court of Chancery of Wilcox county,
State of Alabama, by the company., against Smith, the mort.gagor, which was defended by him. In the answer he admitted the execution of the bond and mortgage, but denied their
validity, setting out the consideration, which consisted of
bonds and obligations of the company made and delivered to
him for the like sum of seven thousand five hundred dollars,
payable at a future day, with six per cent. interest. The mortgage in question bore eight per cent.
'The proofs taken in the case sustained the answer, and
showed that .the transaction between the company and the
mortgagor consisted simply in an exchange .of securities with
each other, with an advantage .to the former of two per cent.
profit.
The-chancellor decreed that the contract was valid, and the
bond and mortgage binding upon. the defendant, and that, un-

.. 0

SUPREME COURT.
Smith" et aL v. Kernochen.

less the principal and, interest were paid within thirty days, the
mortgage be foreclosed.
Upon an appeal to the Supreme Court-of the State, this de-cree wa§ reversed, and a decree entered dismissing the bill.
That court held, that the charter of the Life and Trust Company conferred no authority upon it to lend' its credit, or issue
the bonds for which the mortgage in question was given, and
that the bond and mortgage taken therefor were inoperative
and void.
The charter of the company, together with several amendments of the -same, were given in evidence.
. When the evidence closed, the defendants prayed the court
to charge the jury, -that, if they believed that the transfer of the
mortgage to the plaintiff was made for the purpose of giving
jurisdiction to the Federal courts, and to enable the 'company
to prosectite its claim therein, and that the plaintiff was privy
to the same, the deed was void, and did not pass any title to
the plaintiff which the court would enforce.
The defendanta further prayed the court to charge, that thb
judgment and decree of the Supreme Court of Alabama between the company and Smith, the- mortgagor, was conclusive
-,pon the parties in this suit; and that neither the mortgagees,
nor those claiming ynder them, since the rendition of the decree, could recover the lands embraced in the mortgage at law
or in equity.
The court refused to charge according to the. above prayers,
and charged as follows •1. That any matters which might abate the suit should
have been pleaded in abatement, and that, after the plea of the
general issue, the facts proved by the defendants, as set forth in
"the bill of exceptions, could be of no avail, and were insufficient -to abate the suit. And,
2. That the defendants, claiming title under Smith, the.
mortgagor, were estopped from denying the consideration of
the mortgage as set forth-in that instrument, and that the consideration as there stated was good, and valid, according to the
charter of the company, and sufficient to -sustain the validity of
the mortgage and title of the plaintiff. "
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff.
A writ of error brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Dargan,for the plaintiffs in error,
and Mr. Sergeant, for the defendant in error.
Mr. Dargan,for the plaintiffs in error.
The facts of this case may be thus stated.

The Alabama

'ANUARY

TERM, 1849.

201

Smith et al. v. Kernochen.

Life Insurance and Trust Comfany held the bond and mortgage of Archibald R. Smith, executed and delivered to said
company. They filed a bill in equity in the State of Alabama to foreclose the mortgage. Smith resisted a decree
and set up a defence, that the consideration of the bond and
mortgage was illegal, in this, that the consideration of the
company to him was the bonds of the company to an ampunt
equal to his bond, payable in New York, which bonds of the
company bore interest, payable semiannually, and were in the
form described in the bl of exceptions. That said company
had no power or capacity to deal by way of exchaiging credits.
The Supreme Court of the State of Alabama dismissed the bill
of the company, declared the consideration illegal, and the bond
and mortgage void.
This is shown by the record of the case, reported in 4 Alabama Reports, 558, which case, as reported, is made part of the
bill of exceptions. It was also shown by the secretary of the
company, that the consideration of the bond and mortgage was
stated correctly in the report of said case. After this decision
,was rendered, the company transferred the bond and mortgage
to Kernochen by an assignment on the back of the m tgage,
marked exhibit B in the bill of exceptions.
Tisdale, the secretary of the company, testified, that the
transfer of.the bnd and mortgage to Kernochen was for
.'1,000. That the object of the transfer was to obtain a decision of the question in the courts of the United States. That
he did not know whether Kernochen Was informed of the motive of the transfer,; that the company had never had any other
transaction with him, and that this was done through J Hunt,
their agent.
The defendant in the court below showed, also, that Smith
had resisted the mortgage in his lifetime, and denied its validity; of this the company was apprised; also, that, since the
death of Smith, the land had been. sold under execution, and
bought by Powe, one of the defendants. The defendants requested the court to charge the jury, that if the transfer of the
mortgage was for the purpose of giving jurisdiction to the
Federal courts, and to enable the Alabama Life Insurance and
Trust Company to prosecute its claim in this court, and that
the lessor of the plaintiff was privy to this intention, that the
deed was void, and could give the lessor of the plaintiff no title
which this court -would enforce. This charge was refused.
The defendant also requested the court to charge the jury, that
the consideration of said mortgage was illegal, and therefore thp
mortgage was void, and the plaintiff coUld not recover; which
was refused.

SUPREME COURT.
Smith et al. v. Kernoche'n.

Also, that the judgment and decree of the Sudpreme Court
of Alabama, as delivered in the case of Smith v. The Alabama
Life Insurance andTrust Company, was conclusive, and that
neither the mortgagors nor those claiming under the mortgage,
since the rendition of said decree, could recover the land described in the mortgage; which was refused. Also, that, if the
jury believed that, at the time.of the transfer to the lessor of
the plaintiff, the defendants held the land, denying the validity
of the mortgage, the transfer was void as to them, and that the
plaintiff could not recover; which was refused.
And the court charged, that any-matter in abatement should
have been pleaded in abatement, and that the facts proved by
the defendant on the trial, as set forth in the bill of excptions,
after the plea of the general issue, could be of no avail to the
defendant, and could not abate the suit.
The court also charged, that the defendants and Archibald
R. Smith were estopped from denying the consideration as set
forth in the mortgage, and that the consideration, as expressed
the'rein, was sufficient, according to the laws regulating the
Alabama Life 'Insurance and Trust Company, to sustain the
contract set forth in the mortgage.
Also, that the judgment and decree of the Supreme Court of
Alabama was not conclusive, and could not bar the plaintiff in
this suit.
It will be seen by the :bill of exceptions, that the case, as reported in 4 Alabama Reports, as well as the acts of the legislature incorporating the company, and altering and amending
the charter, are part of the bill of exceptions.
I intend to present the- following questions: 1st. The court erred in refusing to charge the jury, that, if
they believed the tranafer to Kernochen was made with the
view to enable the Alabama Life Insurance and Trust Company
to litigate their claim in this court, the transfer was void, and
could give no title that this court would enforce.
The response of the court to this request, as will be seen .by
the charge given, was, that this fact could have no influence
after the general issue .had been pleaded. That, if it was true,
it was but matter in abatement. This is the substance of the
charge given.
The Constitution did not intend to confer on the Federal
tribunals jurisdiction to determine on the rights of citizens
residing in the same State, unless the subject-matter was of
admiralty jurisdiction, and whbre citizens of the same State
held grants to the same land from different States.
A deed, therefore, which is merely intended to give jurisdiction to this court, and is'not for the purpose of transferring the

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

20

Smith et al. v. Kernochen.

right to the thing to the vendee, but as between vendor and
vendee the interest and right is still with the vendor, contravenes the spirit and intention of the Constitution ; shall it be
effectual for this purpose? If so, it appepxs to me that the
framers of the Constitution ought to have added, or lather that
we now add to the Constitution, after the words, "between
citizens of different States,'" "and between citizens of the same
State where one of the parties has transferred his right to a
citizen of another- State, with the view to give jurisdiction to
the Federal courts.P
Justice Washington, in 1 Washington's Circuit Court Reports, 82, decided that a deed for such a purpose was void,
and could not effect its obiject. I think that this court came
to the same conclusion in the case of McDonald v. Smalley,
1 Peters, 558; in concluding the opinion, Chief Justice Marshall uses this language : - " The case, we think, depends
on the question, whether the transaction between McArthur
and McDonald was real or,, fictitious; but there being, nothing
in the record from which the court could -pronounce it was fictitious, the deed was maintained. But suppose the evidence
had~shown that the deed was fictitious, that McDonald was
suing merely for McArthur, what would have been the decision ? It seems to me, from the whole case, that the -deed
would have been pronounced void,"- a fiction merely; and,
therefore, it could not have given .title so as to effectuate the
very fictitious design for which it was intended; that is, to
coerce the adjudication of the title in the Federal' courts."
The District Court seemed to think it was matter in abatement; now Kernochen was a citizen of the State of New
York, the plaintiff in error, of Alabama; the Circuit Court,
therefore, had jurisdiction so far as the parties on the record
are concerned. And the only question was, Had the plaintiff
the better title? He had the title the mortgage gave him, if the
transfer was valid in law; if it was not valid in law, he had
no title, and the question was therefore properly raised -in bar.
True it is, that, in 1 Peters, the question seems to have
prisen on a question of jurisdiction to the court; but the court
will perceive that the question still must have been, Did the

deed from McArthur to McDonald give title to McDonald?
If it did give title, as McDonald resided in Alabama, the jurisdiction ws perfect; if it gave no title, McDonald could not
recover; therefore the question was, did the transfer of the
mortgage, for the purpose of prosecuting the suiti,'for the Alabama Life Insurance and Trust Company, -being intended to
give fraudulent jurisdiction to the court, convey to him any
title, -r such a title as this court would enforce ?

SUPREME COURT.
Smith et al. v. Kernochen.

Deeds given for illegal purposes are void, and courts will
not execute the purpose. This transfer was made to -enable
the Alabama Life Insurance and Trust Company, a corporation
of .Alabama, to litigate its rights with citizens of Alabama in
the Federal courts.
The'company was prevented by the Constitution from doing
this. They try by this deed to do it, and for this purpose
they make it; will the court execute the purpose, or declare
the deed void ? If void, no title passed, none at least that this
court would enforce ; for, if it did, itwould be carrying out, or
permitting the Alabama Life Insurance and Trust Company to
carry out, their illegal purpose.
The whole testimony fully authorized the request asked.
A decision had been rendered on the case in the Supreme Court
of the State, prououncing the mortgage void. The company
never had had any transaction with the plaintiff. The secretary admitted that' the object was to enable the company to
try the question in the Federal courts; only a thousand dollars
was received. It might -well have been left to the jury to say,
Is this nbt all .a fiction, a design and trick Between Kemochen
and the company ? and if so, I thirik this court-will establish
the rule, that such a transaction will not convey such a title as
this court will enforce.
2d.-The consideratioil of the Miortgage is illegal. The Supreme Court of 'he State of Alabama has decided, on this very
same mortgage, that the consideration was illegal, and not
authorized by the charter of the company; and this decision
was made directly, when the validity of the mortgage was put
in issue, and the decision depended on the construction of the
charter and its amendments.
The rule is fully recognized in this court, that the decision of
the State courts, construing a statute of their own State, is conclusive on this court. That is, whether the construction be
right or not, 'it will be adopted as a rule of decision. So
strongly has this court adhered to this rule, that, in a case
from Tennessee, -khere the Supreme Court of Tennessee had
reversed a former decision on the construction of the statute
of limitations, this court adopted the last decision as conclusive, although they believed the former decision was.correct.
'See, als6, Greever v. Neal, 6 Peters, 291. It may be well
to inquire why this court h~s adopted this kule of decision. The answer is, that the jurisdiction or sovereignty, as it may
be called, has an'unquestioniable Tight to construe its own
statutes, and that its own courts and its own people understand its own laws, and that no other people or government
can or ought of right to construe those laws "for them. Now,

JANUARY TERM, 1849.
Smith et al. v. Kernochen.

I would submit that, in construing al act of the legislatdie
creating a corporation,- we tould not adopt a different rule ; if
so; -every charter granted by the States must come before this
court for its final construction,, and we should deny to"the
sovereignty that created the being the right to judge of its
powers and capacities.
But, if I am wrong in this view, the decision of the Supreme
Court, as delivered by Nhstice Ornond, will clearly show, I
think, that the company had no right to -issue their bonds, and
thus deal in an exchange of credits. If they-had the right to
issue the bonds described in the bill of exceptions, their contracts to the same purport would have been valid without their
seal, and their obligations could have as well been payable, on
demand as at' a'future day; as.well in the shape of a banl'note, as in any form;. and thus, by construction, they would
have fairly been entitled to banking privileges, which was.
certainly never designed or contemplated by the -charter.
Whether, therefoxe, this court will construe the charter, or
adopt the construction of the Supreme Court of Alabama as
correct, the result -will be the same, that'the consideration of
the mortgage is illegal..
Then comes the question, Can we show by, parol proof that
the consideration is illegal, when the consideration expressed
in- the mortgage is legal, and different -from the 'consideration
shown by the proof, which-is recited to be seven thousand four
hundred dollars in cash? To hold that this recital precludes.
proof of the illegality of consideration would set the whole law
at defiance, so far as contracts are concerned, and would besaying, however immoral or vicious the consideration of a contract may be, you may preclude an inquiry into it by stating ai
legal consideration on- its face.
The rule of evidence is, that parol eyidence shall not be*re-ceived to vary or contradict a deed or other writien evidence.
This rule, however, can only apply when .the evidence seeks
to contradict or vary the terms or legal effect of a deed; not
eeking, however, to destroy the deed altogether as a legalinstrument or contract; for the rule is well settled,, that fraudor illegality of consideration may be given in evidence to defeat.a..deed, that is, to show the deed is a nullity.
This is the doctrine laid down in' 4 Kent, 465, 466; Greenleaf.on Ev., § 284; 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 154; 2 Wilson,
347; 9 East, 408; 5 Mass. Rep. 61. Indeed, a different rulewould destroy all law by the fornn.of the contract.
I therefore submit, that' the language of the deed cannot preelude the plaintiffs in: error from showing that the consideratibn
was Allegal.; and being, illegal, the mortgage is void; and
voL. V1I.
18

206

SUPREME COURT.
Smith et al. v. Kernochen.

therefore the court erred in refusing the charge asked, and in
charging as it did as to the validity of the deed.
Another -question is, Could the Alabama Life Insurance and
Trust Company transfer a title, after Smith had denied the validity of the mortgage, and held the possession adverse to the
company? Could the company make a deed that would. be
valid as against the adverse possessor? At common law he
could not, for livery of seizin could not be given. See 2 Co.
Litt. by Thomas, 409, and note (Y). And this .is the rule
recognized by the Supreme Court of Alabama. See Allen and,
Dexter v. Nelson,.6 Ala. Rep. 68. True it is, that the mortgagor cannot deny the title of the mortgagee, and he is considered as the tenant of the mortgagee. But the principle of
this doctrine is, that where there is a valid mortgage, the mortgagor shall not set up a paramount title to the mortgage; but
here the validity of the mortgage was denied.
The possession was adverse to the mortgage. Does not the
rule of the common law apply?
Mr. Sergeant, for the defendant in error.
The facts of this case appear in the record, as fully, and at
the same time as succinctly, as they could be presented here.
To the record the court is respectfully referred for the general
view of them, and the questions they give rise to, saving the
right of stating particular facts, as they may become material
in the course of the discussion of the matters of law involved
in the case.
I From the printed argument submitted by the learned counsel
of the plaintiffs in error, it appears that they rely upon two
principal objections to the judgment-below, and one that is
subordinate, and, seemingly, not much confided in. These
are all the assigned errors, therefore, before the court, and to
these answers will now be given, without further introduction.
I. "The court erred in refusing to charge the jury, that, if
they believed the transfer to Kernochen was made with the
view to enable the Alabama Life Insurance and Trust Company to litigate their claim in this court, the transfer was void,
and could give no title that this court would enforce. The
response of the court to this request, as will be seen by the
charge given, was, that this fact could have no influence after
the general issue had been pleaded. That, if it was true, it was
but matter in abatement. This is the substance of the charge
given."
The first of these differs, in one particular, from the printed argument, namely, in requiring the judge to leave to the

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

207

Smith e" al. v. Kernochen.

jury whether the lessor of the plaintiff was "privy to his intention."
The second differs, it- is thought, materially from the charge
actually given, as will be presently seen.
To this error, thus assigned, there are several answers.
I.,There was no evidence whatever of any privity of the
lessor of the plaintiff. The only witness examined on the
point said, "He did not khow whether Kernochen was informed of the motive; that he never had any intercourse with
him on the subject, nor had the company ever had any other
transacti6n with him." As a matter of fact, it thus stood
without any proof. It is respectfully submitted, that the court
cannot be required to give a charge upon what is not in evidence. If a fact is important to the party, it is for him to substantiate it by proof; but where there is absolutely no proof
at all, he cannot require the judge to charge the jury as to its
effect, and there is no error in the judge declining- to do so.
The learned counsel for the plaintiffs in error seems to be of
the same opinion, for in his argument, as has been seen, he
omits the matter of privity altogether. By and by it will be
seen whether the fact itself, if proved., would have been of any
consequence. It is submitted that it would not.
2. The judge was required to charge the jury, that, upon
the hypothesis presented, without any color of support from
the evidence, the assignment of the mortgage was void, and
could give the lessor of the plaintiff no title which' the court
would enforce. The grounds in law upon which the judge
could be asked to declare -the deed void, and to decide that it
could give no title vhich the court could enforce, are nowhere
exhibited, in the argument, unless they are supposed to be
somehow involved in the general question of jurisdiction,
which will be considered presently. The prayer is simply
that the court will charge the jury that the assignment is void,
and therefore that one link is wanting in the derivation of title
of the lessor of the plaintiff. The proper termination of the
objection is not to the jurisdiction at all, but to the right to
recover, equally fatal in all jurisdictions, State or Federal.
It is nowhere denied that the assignment was duly signed,
sealed, and delivered, was upon a sufficient consideration, and,
between the parties, a good and valid transfer, sufficient in law
to pass the right of the mortgagee, whatever it was,.to the
transferee. How it can be said that such a deed is void is
altogether inconceivable. Probably the explanation of what
is meant is t be sought in the words which follow, - that it
"could give no title which this court" (the Circuit Court)
"would enforce."
The reasoning, then, would be, it is good

208

SUPREME COURT.
Smith et aL v. Kernochen.

elsewhere, but it is void here; and the ground must be, Ithat it.is so void because it was made to give this court jurisdiction.
This position is answered authoritatively by one of the decisioris
of this high court, quoted in the priftted argument of the plaintiff in error. In McDonald v. Smalley, 1 Peters, 620, (A. D.
1828,) Chief Justice Marshall, in page 624, declares the motive
to be- of no consequence. The case is very similar to the present, and what is there said is now considered to be the settled
doctrine of this. court. The reasons of it will be found very
fully stated in an opinion of the late Judge Storyr, in his circuit, which will be again referred to in a later stage of the
argument. (Briggs v. French; 2 Sumner, 251.) The motive,
therefore, is not an unlawful one to entertain or to act upon,
and cannot affect the validity of the deed, if in other respects
valid and good. "IThis *court" (the Circuit Court) would enforce it as fully as any other court. It would have been error
to decline the jurisdiction.
3. The judge is charged with error in deciding, as alleged,
that this, if true, was matter in abatement, that it ought to have
been' pleaded, and could have no influence after the general
issue pleaded.
What the judg ]really did say is in the bill of exceptions,
and is as follows :- ", And the court charged, that anr matter
in abatement should have been pleaded in abatement; and
that the facts proved by the defendant, on the trial, as set
forth, in the bill of exceptions, after the- plea of the general
issue, could be of no avail to the defendant, and could not
abate the suit."
If the facts proved by the defendant could be of no ,avail,
either upon a. pleain abatement or upon -the general issue, then
the decision of the judge,'as imputed to him, would be wholly
immaterial, and therefore it is not error to reverse: the judgment.
Authority (which is abundant) need not be quoted for this obvious conclusion of common sense. -If it could not be made
available in either way, the case was against the defendant,
and the decision must,be against him, so that what was said b'y
the' judge could' neither help, nor hurt him. This point was
thus immaterial.
But. the charge-of -the judge must be understood with reference to all that had previously occurred in the case, and -in
fairness must be interpreted as intended to express, in a concise
way, his. opinion upon the several points the case presented
,upon the evidence or upon the requirement -f counsel. It
must be remembered, therefore, in the first place, that. there
was not thie least pretence- of evidence ta affect the lessor of-the.
plaintiff, or t4 impugn the integrity of his conduct. All that

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

209

Smith et aL v. Kernochen.

was before the court was the evidence as to the motive qf the
mortgagee, which, as already stated, was of no manner of con..
sequence. In his charge, he begins with stating the law, ,"that any matter which abates the suit should have been
pleaded in abatement," which, undoubtedly, is true, -universally true, unless this be an exception. The remainder of the
sentence must be understood to say, that, if so pleaded, they
would be insufficient, under the circumstances proved, "to
abate the suit."
It is not worth while, however, to occupy the. time and attention of the court with an effort to bring this question ta the
most exact precision. Interpreted in either way, the charge is
right, and there is no error in it. If the court should be of
opinion that the learned judge below meant to say that the
matter alleged could be of no avail to the defendant, after
pleading the general issue, we contend that he was right, and
there was no error.
The plaintiff's argument, it will be seen, embraces two propositions in law, namely, that, upon the trial of the general
issue, the evidence in the case was competent and was sufficient to oust the jurisdiction, and also that no plea in abatement was necessary to entitle the evidence to be heard, and to
produce this legal 'effect.
To maintain these propositions, but one case is cited, namely, Maxfield's Lessee v. Levy, reported in 2 Dallas, 381, and
more at large in 4 Dallas, 330. Reference is also made to two
dicta of a later period, which will be noticed hereafter.
What Maxfield's Lessee v. Levy decided, it seems, to have
been difficult to express in*legal language. In the' first of the
reports, the purpose of the deed, and that there was no consideration, arQ stated as the grounds of- the decision. In the index to the second, it is thus stated: - "A fictitious conveyance
of land, to give jurisdiction to the Federal court, detected, and
the suit dismissed." The word "fictitious " here used will be
fouad to be adopted afterwards, but what it means is nowhere
stat d or defined. The word is an ambiguous one, as here applied, and the two cases where it is subsequently found did not
require attention to its meaning, because the objection founded
upon it was answered decisively by other matter. All that
need be said is, that. if the "purpose "' or "motive "1 is held to
make it "fictitious" and unlawful, itis contrary to what has
been decided by this court in the case already referred to.
The decision of the Circuit Court, however, is not authority
here.. It'is entitled to- respect s6, far only as it is reasonable
and consistent with law; and to-that respect it is entitled
only in cases where the facts and circunistances are the same.
18*.

210

SUPREME

COURT.

Smith et al. v. Kernochen.

Now they are not so, in the present case, as must be most obvious.
In Maxfield's Lessee v. Levy there was no question of the
competency of the evidence upon the general issue, nor of its
sufficiency to oust the jurisdiction. It does not appear that the
general issue hid been pleaded, or any other plea, nor, of course,
that the defendant, by pleading, had waived his right to except
to the jurisdiction. The case was decided upon a rule to show
cause why the 6jectment should not be dismissed from the
record.
Again, in Maxfield's Lessee v. Levy the grantor and the
grantee were both parties to the purpose which the learned
judge denounced as.vitiating the deed. That is not the- case
here. There is no evidence at all that the assignee was privy
to it.
Further, there was no consideration in Maxfield's Lessee v.
Levy. This was clearly and distinctly proved, and much'
stress is laid upon it by the learned judge, as may be seen in
4 Dallas, 334. It was, indeed, the chief ground of his decision. In the present case, there was a valuable consideration
paid.
Not admitting that, under these circumstances, the decision
in Maxfield's Lessee v. Levy °can be supported, yet there are,
such differences between that case and the present, as fully
justify us in concluding that the learned judge who decided
Maxfi~ld's Lessee v. Levy would not have decided Kernochen
v. Smith otherwise than Judge Cra'wford has done.
. Independently of these considerations, - which, it is submitted, are sufficient -here, - could Maxfield's Lessee. v. Levy be
-maintained at the pr:seilt day,.if it were now to present itself
with the same facts and circumstances, precisely, as were be:fore the late Judge Iredell? The case occurred, it will be remembered, as early as the year 1797, when the Constitution
had been very recently made, its institutions were new and un-tried, and they were both regarded with jealousy, as likely to
encroach upon and swallow up the States. The judiciary, of
course, had its full share of the effects of this feeling. Experience has shoxyn that it was groundless. The courts of the
United States have carefully kept themselves within the narrowest limits. They have settled, in the first place, that they
,can occupy no more of the -ground helonging to the United
States by the Constitution than is assigned to them by acts of
Congress. They have, in the next place, settled that their
jurisdiction is limited, though they are not inferior* courts.
And, finally, that their jurisdiction must appear upon the record. The neglect, in thislast particular, may be taken advan-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

211

Smith et aL v. Mernochen.

tage of at any time, even in error. But they have never gone
the length of saying that the want of jurisdiction from matters
out of the record may be alleged at any time, in any form, or
in total disregard of all rule. Still less have they countenanced
the position, that a deed, good and real by the laws of the State,
and which would be so held in any State tribunal, becomes
void by being offered in evidence in a court of the United
States, and is to be regarded as fictitious.
The case of Maxfield's Lessee v. Levy has received no countenance or supp6rt in this court. - It has never been followed,
as far as known, by any judge. In the two cases referred to on
the other side, there is a reference merely to the subject of
"fictitious conveyances," but in both the jurisdiction was supported, without any examination of the doctrine.
It is unnecessary to examine the argument in -Maxfield's
Lessee v. Levy, because this has already been done by the late
Judge Story, in the case of Briggs v. French, 2 Sumner: 252.
With the force of ability, learning, and experience,land the high
judicial authority, which that eminent and lamented judge
could bring to the discussion, it would be a work of supererogation, if not of presumption, especially in this court, where he
was so well knovn as a judge arnd a jurist, to attempt to add a
word to what he has said. This decision was in the year 1835,
with the light of nearly half a century upon *the law and practice of the courts of the United States.
Two things, however, irresistibly force themselves upon the
mind of any one who reads that case. The one is, how it can
be that a court of the United States, constituted to administer,
-in certain cases, the laws of the States, can declare a deed void
which is good by the State law, or hold it fictitious when by
the same law it is real. The other, how can a court constituted a court of law or equity deem itself at liberty to rqject a
rule of pleading of universal adoption, and conducive to order
and justice, to replace it by a mode of proceeding which leads
only to confusion, surprise, and wrong?
But it is believed, also, that the decisions of this court have
established the contrary. One remark only will be made before
referring to them. The jurisdiction in question is foufided exclusively upon the character of the parties, and not at all upon
the subject-matter. It is not perceived how the latter can affect the former. The one exception made by Congress, with
perfect accuracy, in the act of 1789, is founded upon the subject-matter, namely, assignable instruments. No matter who
sues upon them, or who is sued, if there was not jurisdiction
between the original parties, there is none, in -the excepted case,
where an assignee is plaintiff. This is plain and practicable.

212

SUPREME COURT.
Smith et a]. v. Kernochen.

The purpose or motive is not regarded, and the simple fact, as
to the subject-matter, is the determining test. The exception
only proves.the rule. In all other cases, the character of the
parties decides the jurisdiction, whatever may be the subjectmatter. Congress could have gone further, if they had thought
fit to do so. They can do so still, if they so incline. Probably
Congress and the people are by this time convinced that the
jurisdiction is a beneficial one, and ought not to be cavilled at
or curtailed.
But now for the decisions of this court, leaving to it, without particular suggestions, to .discern how they contradict and
overthrow the doctrine of Maxfield's Lessee v. Levy.
Instances of pleas to the jurisdiction will be found in Sere
v. Pilot, 6 Cranch, 332; Mollan v. Torrance, 9 Wheat. 537;
Shelton v. Tiffin, 6 How. 163. 'Doubtless there are many
others.
In D'Wolf v. Rabaud, 1 Pet. 498, (A. D. 1828,) it *as decided that the question of citizenship must be pleaded in
abatement. Said to have been so recently decided, on full consideration.
In Evans v. Gee, 11. Pet. 80, - see page 83, opinion of Judge
Wayne, - (A. D. 1837,) the same point was decided. In Sims
v. Hindley, 6.How. 1, (A. D. 1848,) that, upon the plea of non
assumpsit, evidence cannot be received relating to the residence
of the party, bearing upon the jurisdiction of the court. So,
in Bailey v. Dozier, 6 How.23 (same year). See, also, Briggs
v. French, 2 Sumner, 251.
In Bonnafee v. Williams, 3 How. 574, -see
page 577,(A. D. 1845,). this court decided as follows :-, Where the
citizenship of the parties gives jurisdiction, and the legal right
to sue is in the plaintiff, the court- will not inquire into the
-residence of those who may have an equitable interest in the
claim. A person having the legal right may sue, at law, in the
Federal courts, without reference to the citizenship of those
who may have the equitable interest." -McLean,
J.
Putting these decisions together, it is most clear that the
opinion of- the learned judge below (Judge Crawford), even in
its most extreme construction, was right, and that there is no
error in it.
If. The error alleged under this head (except a subordinate.
matter hinted at in the conclusion of the printed argument,
which" will lb noticed hereafter) is "founded upon the second
and third of the charges of the learned judge, to be considered
with the instructions asked for by the de-fendant below.
To begin with the third. No authority has been shown to
establish that a decree in chancery is a bar at law, or a judg-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

213

Smith et al. v. Kernochen.

ment at law a bar in equity. The contrary is vell settled.
Lessee of Wright v. Deklyne, 1 Peters, C. C. 199, 202.
For the same reason, the arguments of a chancery court
must be deemed inapplicable, except to the very case before
the court; for, in equity, the decision itself may depend (and
does so in this case) upon which party it is that applies, for relief. A decree is not a bar even in chancery, when the position of the parties is changed. It is lawfuland equitable for a,
party to use the means he has at law to force his adversary
into a condition to oblige him to go into chancery, and thus
free himself rom obstruct.ions which lie in the way of admin-7
istering what is plain and substantial justice. What that justice here is must be very apparent.
The defence attempted is a very ungracious one. There is
no denial that the qompany fulfilled its agreement, gave the
bonds, and in due time paid them, and that the party who received converted, them, in such way as seemed best to him, to
his own use. The def-nce now is, simply, that the company
were not authorized to issue the bonds. It is not said, even,
that there was a prohibition by law. It was, therefore, at most,
a common mistake, and one party, having obtained the ffll
benefit.of the contract, now seeks to turn the mistake-to the
wrong of the other party, by stripping him of the equivalent he
received. No court, either of law or equity, will favor him.
If he come into equity, he must do equity.
The statutes of usury, for example, declare the usurious contract void. But wherever the case is in the power of a court,
either of law or equity, they require the payment of principal
and interest. The cases are collected by counsel in Bank of
United States v. Waggener, 9 Peters, 390. Among them is
the case of one suing for a pledge or security.
The question now is, and the only one, What are the rights
of this mortgagee at law against the mortgagor, and those deriving under him? What.are his legal rights? This is a question which was not, ant could not, be before the court of
chancery, as the case was there presented. The decree of that
court did not touch it, nor intend to touch it.. It only refused
its aid to foreclose the mortgage. But the court neither condemned the mortgage, nor enjoined the plaintiff from proceeding at law, nor meddled with or affected his legal rights. They
remain exactly as they were before.
What are his rights at law ? This is the only question at
present. If he should attempt to use them inequitably, the
mortgagor may apply to equity for relief. Difference between
application by mortgagor and mortgagee, 1 Powell on Mortgages, 336.

214

SUPREME COURT.
Smith et al. v. Kernochen.

At law, a mortgage is a conveyance of land. The statute
of Alabama executes the use, arid the courts of Alabama have
decided that the mortgagee is entitled to possession as soo as
the deed is made. Duval's Heirs v.. McCloskey, 1 Ala. Rep.
N. S. 708. The contract is executed by force of the deed and
the statute. Aik. Dig. 94, § 37; Clay's Dig. 156, § 35. The
contract is executed, and no longer executory. The consideration is not to be inquired into.
The doctrine of the court of Alabama above quoted is the
universal doctrine. Hughes v. Edwards, 9 Wheat. 389. "The
mortgagor, after forfeiture," (which is the case here,) "has no
title at law, bnd none in equity, but to redeem upon terms of
paying the debt and interest." (p. 499.) The-mortgagee may
proceed at law and in equity at the same time. A real action
may be brought upon a mortgage in fee.- Dexter v. Harris, 2
Mason, 531. See also the opinion of this court in Conard v.
The Atlantic, 1 Peters, 441; and, still later, in Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 How. 318, where the nature of the estate of the mortgagee is very distinctly stated, and, his rights at law. It is
good against the priority of the United States. United States
v. Hooe, 3 Cranch, 73; Thelusson v. Smith, 2 Wheat. 396.
"In contemplation of law, the mortgagee was a perfect stranger
as to any legal estate3."
hOeetham v. Williamson, 1 Smith's
Rep. 278, per Lord Ellenborough.
The mortgagor cannot dispute the title of tbh mortgagee, because no man is permitted to dispute his own. solemn deed. 1
Powell on Mortgages, 166; Coote, 347,348. Payment is good
at law only by Stat. 7 Geo. 2, ch. 20, and that strictly taken.
1 Powell, 168, note 2.
The right at law, .equity will not interfere with. Cholmondeley, v. Clinton, 2 Mer. 359; Williams v. Medlicott, 0
Price, 496, note. at the end of the case. They will not prevent
him from assuming possession.
At law the mortgagor and those claiming to derive under
him cannot dispute the right. 1 Powell, ut sup. It is to be
observed here, that the alleged purchaser has never been in
possession. The family of the mortgagor have remained in
possession. See Record, p. 7, sixth paragraph from the top, the
last sentence. If he had been, however, this would- make no
difference. They cannot at law dispute the deed. Doe dem.
Roberts v. Roberts, 2 Barn..& Ad. 367, 370; James v. Bird's
Adm'r,.8 Leigh, 510; Pownal v. Taylor, 10 Leigh, 172; Newman v. Chapmain, 2 Rand. 93; Thomaston Bank v. Stimpson,
21 Maine, 195; Smith v. Hubbs's Adm'r 1 Fairfield, 71; Reed
v. Moore, 3 Ired. 310; Logan v. Simmons, 1- Dev. & Batt.
16. See, also, 7 Johns. 160; 4 Mass. 355 : 4 Hill, 424; 3 Ves.
612; Cro. Jac. 270; 16 Johns. 189.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

Smith et al. v. Kernochen.

All the questions in this case, however, have been deliberately considered and decided by th6 Supreme Court of Ohio. They
are reported in the seventh volume of Ohio Reports, Raguet v.
Roll, and Doe dem. Raguet v. Roll. The first was a proceeding by scire facias to sell, a remedy of an equitable nature for
the mortgagee; and the second, an ejectment at law., They
presented, of course, the very same. questions as are now before,
the court, and nothing need be said to recommend their reasonableness, and their conformity to law. The printed volume
has not been within our reach. We are obliged to submit a
manuscript copy, which is herewith.
There remains nothing further to trouble the court with, but
the one subordinate point before referred to, which will be
easily disposed of. This point is, that the deed.of transfer was
void on account of adverse possession. There was no adverse,
possession. In Chapman v. Armistead, 4 Munf. 382, the court*
decided as follows: - " The possession of the mortgagor,, continuing with the permission of the mortgagee, is to be considered as the possession of the mortgagee, bo that when the latter
could recover in ejectment, his deed assigning the mortgage
will enable the assignee to recover in like manner."
Furtherreferences for the court. - Elliott v. Piersoll, I Pet.
340; Bank of U. S. v. Planters' Bank of Georgia, 9 Wheat. 904.
Mr. Justice NELSON, after reading the statement of the
case prefixed to this report, proceeded to'deliver the opinion
of the court.
We are of opinion, that the charge of the court below upon
the question of jurisdiction was skibstantially correct.
It might have been placed upon ground less open to objection.
The case admits 'that Kernochen, the plaintiff, was not chargeable with notice of the motive of the company in assigning the
mortgage to a citizen of another State; he was not chargeable,
therefore, with the legal consequences that might result from the
existence of such "knowledge. He advanced his money, and
took the security in good faith, and became thereby possessed'
of all the title 'that belonged to the mortgagees; and had a
right to enforce it in.any court having cognizance of the same.
The most that can be claimed is, that the company intended
a fraud upon the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act, in seeking to obtain a decision of the .?e"deral courts upon the validity
of the mortgage between themselves and the defendants, both
parties residents and citizens of the same State, using the
name of the plaintiff as a cover for that purpose: But idmit-'
ting this to be so still, upon general principles, the rights of
the plaintiff under the assignment could not.,be affected by the

216

SUPREME COURT.
Smith et al. v. Kernochen.

fraud, unless notice was brought home to him. Till then, he
stands on-the footing of a bona fide purchaser without notice.-'
But the charge, we think, may also be sustained upon the
ground on which it was placed by the court below. For, even
assuming that both parties concurred in the motive alleged,
the assignment of the mortgage, having been properly executed
and founded upon a valuable consideration, passed the title
an.d interest of the company to the plaintiff. Th& motive imputed could not affect the Validity of the conveyance. This
was sb held in McDonald v. Smalley, 1 Peters, 620.
The suit would be free from, objection in the State courts.
And the only ground upon which it can be made effectual here'
is, that-the transaction bet'ween the company and the. plaintiff
was fictitious and not real; and the kuit still, in contemplation
of law, between the original parties to the mortgage.
The question, therefore, is one -of proper parties to give
jurisdiction to the Federal courts; not of title in the plaintiff,
That ivould be a question on the merits, to decide which the
jurisdiction must first be admitted.
The true 'and only .ground of objection in all these cases
is, that the assignor, or grantor, .as the case may be, is,the real
party in the suit, and the plaintiff on the record but nominal
and colorable, his name being used merely for the purpose of
ju~risdiction. The suit is then in fact a controversy between
the former and the defendants, notwithstanding the conveyance ; and if both parties are citizens of the same State, jurisdiction of course cannot be upheld. - (1 Peters, 625; 2 Dallas,
381 ; 4-ib. 330; 1 WasJa. C. C. 70, 80; 2 Sumner, 251.)
Assuming, therefore; every thing imputed to the assignment
of the mortgage from the compadiy to the plaintiff, the charge
of the court was correct. The objection came too late, after
the general issue. .For when taken to the jurisdiction on thd
ground of citizenship, it must be taken by a plea in abatement,
and cannot be raised in the trial ofn the merits. D'Wolf v.
Rabaud, 1 Peters, 417; Evans- v. Gee, 11 ib.80; Sims V.
Huudley, 6- How. 1.
But we are of opinion the court erred in giving the second
instruction, which denied the conclusiveness of the decree in
the bill of foreclosure 'against the right of the plaintiff to recover in this action.
The suit in chancery was between the original parties to
the mortgage, and involved directly the validity of that instrument; it was the only question put in issu6 by the bill and
answer, aind the only one decided by the court. The mortgfge was held tb be Void, on the ground that the bonds 'of the
company which were given in exchange foi it were illegal,

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

217

Smith et al. v. Kernochen.

bnd created no debt or liability for which a mortgage security
could be taken or upheld; that every part of the transaction
was beyond any of the powers conferred upon the company by
its charter, and therefore wholly unauthorized and void. On
these grounds, the court decreed that the bill be dismissed.
The present is an action of ejectment, konught by the assignee
of the complainants in that suit against defendants representing
the inferest of the mortgagor, and in which the right to recover
depends upon the force and validity of the. same instrument.
A mortgagee, or any one holding under him, may recover
possession of the mortgaged premises. after default, on this
action, unless it appears that the debt has been paid, or is
extinguished, or the mortgage security for good cause held
ineffectual to pass the title. Here it has been shown to have
been declared null and void by a court of competent jurisdiction, in a suit between parties under whom the present derive
title, and in which, as we have seen, the question of its
validity was put directly in issue. The case, therefore, falls
within the general rule, that the judgment of a court of concurrent jurisdiction directly upon the point.is as a plea, a bar,
or as evidence conclusive between the -same parties or privies
upon the same matters, when directly in question in another
court.
It is suggested on the brief' submitted on the part of the
plaintiff below, that a decree in equity between the same
parties is not a bar to an action at law; and hence, that the
decree in the bill of foreclosure in this.ase is no bar to the
action of ejectment; and' the case of the Lessee of 'Wright
v. Deklyne, 1 Peters, C. 0. 199, is referred to as sustaining
that position. On looking into the case, it will be seen that,
the decree dismissing the bill, which was set up as a bar to
the action 6f ejectnient, was placed upon the ground that the
corfiplainant had a complete remedy at law, and did not,
therefore, involve the legal title -to the property in question.
The court say, that, if a complainant seeks- in a court of
equity to enforce a strictlr legal title, when his remedy at law
is plain and adequate, the dismissal of his'bill amounts to a
declaration that he has no equity, and the court no jurisdiction -'
but it casts no reflection whatever upon his legal title ; it decides nothing in relation to it, and consequently can conclude
nothing against' it. It was admitted that the decision of a
court of competent jurisdiction directly upon the point was.
conclusive where it came again in controversy.
The case of Hopkins v. Lee, 6 Wheat. 109, illustrates and
applies the - principle which governs this case. There Hopkins purchased of Lee an estate, fbr which' he agreed to pay.
VOL. v11.

19

218

SUPREME COURT.
Smith et al v. Kernochen.

9 i8,00; -$
10,009 in military lands at fixed prices, -and to
,give his -bond for the, residue. The estate was mortgaged for
a large sum, which encumbrance Lee agi~eed to raise. The
wholeagreement rested in contract. Hopkins filed -bill against
L~e, charging that he had been obliged to remove the encum.brance, and claiming th" repayment of fhe money, or, in de'fault thereof, -that he be permitted to se I the ihilitary'lands
whic& he considered as a pledge remaining in his hands for the
money. Lee put in an answer denying the allegations in the
bill, whereupon tlib cause was referred to a master, -who reported that the funds Wvith which Hopkins had lifted the mortgage belonged to Lee, upon which report a decree was entered
accordingly. The suit in 6 Wheaton, was an action of covenant brought by Lee against Hopkin.§, to recover damages for
not conveying the'rilitary lands which he had agreed to convey upon the aforesaid encumbrance being removed. The
defence was, that the encumbrance had not been removed.
And upon the trial Lee relied upon the suit and the decree in
chancery as conclusive evidence of the fact that he had complied with the condition, which was admitted by the court
below, and the decision sustained here on error.
The court, after referring to the general rule, observed, that
a verdict and judgment of a court of record, or a decree in
chancery, alt hough not binding upon strangers, puts an end to
all further controversy concerning the points thus decided between the parties to such suit. In this -there is, and ought -to
-be, no difference between a verdict and judgment in a court of
common law, and a decree of a court, of equity. They both
stand on the same footing, and may be offered in evidence
under the game limitations, and it would be difficult to assign
a reason why it should be otherwise. •
If any further illustration of the principle were" necessary,
we might refer to 'the case of Adams v. Barnes, 17 Mass. 365,
where it appeared that a mortgagee had brought an action to
recover possession of the mortgaged premises, in which thi
mortgagor had defended on the ground of usury, but, failing
in the defence, the mortgagee had judgment. . The mortgagor
afterwards conveyed his interest to a third person, who brought
a writ of entry against the mortgagee to recover the possession, relying upon the usury in the mortgage as invalidating
that instrument, and rendering it null and void. But- the
court held the parties concluded"by tMe previous judgment,
the same point having been there raised and decided, in favor
I
of the mortgagee.
The same principle will be found in Betts v. Star, 5 Conn.
550, where it'was held. that a judgment recovered upon a

JANUARY

TERM, 184.9.

219

Snifh et aL v. Kernochen.

note secured by-the mortgage, 'notwithstanding the plea of
usury, precluded the mortgagor from setting up that defence"
again, in an action of-' ejectment by the mortgagee to recover
the possession of the mortgaged premises.
Further illustrations of the principle will- be found by referring to Cowen & iill's Notes to Phillips on EV., p. 804, note
558 - and 2 Greenleaf on Ev., % 528 - 531.
The case of Henry -Raguet v. Peter Roll, 7 Ohio, 76, hasbeen referred to as maintaining a different doctrine. That was
a scirefacias on a mortgage to charge the lands in execution.
The defence set up was, that the mortgage had been given to
secure the payment of a note of five hundred dollars, which
was made to the mortgagee to compound a felony. There had
been a suit between the same parties on the. note, in which the
same deferxce was set up andprevailed. The case is reported
in 4 Ohio Reports, 400. But this former suit was not interposed or relied on in the scire facas on the mortgage, and the
question here i therefore, was not involved in that case, and,
probably, could not have been. For, on looking into the report
of the suit upon the note, it appears to have been brought, originally, in the Common Pleas, where the plaintiff recovered.
This judgment was afterwards reversed by the Supreme Court
on error, without any further order' in the case. This left the
parties and the note as they stood before the judgment in the
Common Pleas. Cowen & Hill's Notes, p. 826, note 587.
There is another principle that would, probably, be. decisive
of this case, over and above the ground here stated, upon a second trial, arising out of the thirty-fourth section of the. Judiciary Act, which provides that the laws ot the several States,
with the exceptions there stated, shall be regarded as rules of
decision in trials at common, law in the courts of the United
States, in cases where they apply.
The highest court of the 'State of Alabama has given a con-.
struction to the act of the legislature chartering this -company,
which we have seen is fatal to a recovery. It belongs.-to the.
State courts to expound their own-statutes; and when thus expounded the decision is.the rule of this court in all cases depending upon 'the local laws'of the State. 7 Wheat. 361; 6
Peters, 291.
It is unnecessary, however, to pursue this inquiry, as the
groumds already- mentioned are, in our judgment, conclusive
upon.the rights of the parties.
In every view we have been able to take of the case, we
think the court erred in the second instruction given to the
jury, and that the judgment below must be reversed.

SUPREME COURT.

220

McLaughlin v. Bank- of Potomac et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama, and was" argued by counsel; on

consideration whereof, it is noW here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that
this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to award a venirefacias de novo.

BRIDGET McLAuGHLIN,

APPELLANT,

V. THE BANK OF

POTOMAC AND.

OTHERS.

Where an issue is sent by a court of equity to be tried bv a jury in a court
of law,
and exceptions are taken during the progress of the trial at law, these exceptions
in order to give
must be brought before the court of equity and there decided,
this court cognizance of them when the case is broght up by appeal.
A question, whether'or not certain conveyances were fraudulent, was properly submitted to the jury. Fraud is often a mixed.question of law and fact, and the jury
can be instructed upon matters of law.
A note held by a bank for a debt due to it, and renewed from time to time with the
same maker and indorser, is sufficient to constitute the bank a creditor in claiming to have conveyances set aside as fraudulent although the note was not due
when the conveyances were made, and the present note was renew d afterwards.
Where the-briginal debtor had made a conveyance of property to a trustee for the
purpose of securing his ind6rse, it was not necessary to pursui and exhaust that
trust-property before proceeding against the indorser and his property. A judg-meat had been obtained against the administrator of the indorser, which fixed his
- liability.

.

This judgment against the administialor in which a devastavit had been suggested,
and a return'of nulla bona to an execution, was good evidence against the surety
of the administrator, and also against the fraudulent grantee of the intestate.
Although the creditor has a remedy against the st et of ihe administrator by a suit
at law upon the bond., yet hi may also file a bill in chancery against all the parties who are concernod in the alleged fraud, and such other persons as are interested in the estate.
Although by the laws which prevail in the District of Columbia,.the personal estate
of a deceased person should be resorted to fhr the payment of debts before applying to the realty; yet, where the administrator was found guilty of a devastavik
-and the personal property was chiefly-left in the hands of the surety, who was also
the person charged with being a fraudnleht grantee of the intestate, the general
rule is not applicable.
In a bill against the fraudulent grantee, it is not necessary to aver a. deficiency of
the personal estate of the deeised ; it is sufficient to aver the fraud and the waste
of the personal assets by such grantee, who was also the pers6nal representative.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit, Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia and County of AleKandria,
sitting as a court of chancery.

The bill was filed in the Circuit Court by. the President, Directors, and Cormyany of the 'Bank of Potomac, Elijah Dallett

and Elijah Dallett-, Jr., trading under the firm of Elijah Dallett

