772

SUPREME-COURT.
Neilson t. Lagow.

record from the. Circuit Court of Winnebago county, State of
Illinois, and was argued by counsel. On considerationi whereof,
ii is now here ordered aend adjudged by this court, that this
'writ of error be, and the same is hereby, dismissed, for the
want of jurisdiction.

HALL ,NEILSON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILSON LAGOW.

Where, upon the trial of, ' case in a State court, a part7 claims the land in dispute,
- under an authority which he alleges has been exercised by the Secretary of the
Treasury, in behalf of the United States, and the decision was against the vahity
of the authority, the party is entitled to have his case brought to this court under
the twenty-fifth section 6f the Judiciary Act.

Tins case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Indiana, by a writ of error isued'.under the - twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Ad.
* As a motion was made to dismiss it for want.of jurisdictidn,
and, the merits of the case were iot discussed; a brief statement of the facts will'be suilcient.
. It .was an action of disseizin, similar to. an ejectment,
brought by Lagow in the Circuit -Gourt fo -the county of Knox
ahd State of Indiana, against Neilson, Billis, and Thomas, to
recover possession of a piece of property known by the name
of the Steam-mill Tract, lying in the town of Vincennes. Billis
and Thomas- disclaimed all interest, and the suit was carried on
by Neilson alone. On the 19th of September, 1821, Lagow and
others conveyed- the -property to the Presideflt, Directors, and
Company of the Bank of Vincennes, their successors and assigns,
for ever, for the consideration of $198,000.
-On the 1st of July, 1822, the bank conveyed this. property
to'Badollet, Harrisoni and Buntin, and their successors, in trust
for the use of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United
Statei, in extinguishnient of the debt due by the bank to the
United States. The trustees were to sell, whenever., requested
by the Secretary of the Treasury, and continue to pay until
the United States were paid the sum of $120,308, with interest.
The Secretary of the Treasury'ws vested with power to l
up vacancies in the trust.
In July, 1822, there came on for trial in the court at Y'incennes a q warranto, which had been issued -by the State of
Indiana against the bank. The jury found a verdictrof guilty,
and the court decreed that all the franchises and property of
the bank should be seized for te use of the State. The

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

773

Neilson v. Lagow.

sheriff returned that 'he had seized the franchises; but being
unable, to find any 'effects of any nature, soever of the bank,
he was unable to obey the command of the writ in respect to
them. The writ was issued on the 6th of July, and the return
made on the 19th of August, 1822.
In November, 1823, a judgment for $123.80 was obtained
in the court at Vincennes against Lagow and the other partners of the steam-mill company, and execution issued thereon.
The property in question was levied upon, sold at auction, and
purchased ,by Lagow, to whom a deed was executed by the
sheriff on the 26th of December, 1823.
In 1826, another sale of the property took place, by authority
of the Supreme' Court of Indiana. Badollet, Harrison, and
Buntin,-the trustees, had filed a bill and obtained a decree
against Lagow and this partners in the State court, which was
carried up to the. Supreme Court.. That court ordered the
steam-mill tract, with all the buildings, engines, and appurtenances, -to be sold, and appointed three commissioners to make the
sale. It was accordingly made, ratified by the court, and'a deed
executed by two of the commissioners on the 20th of June, 1827.
The purchasers were Badollet, Harrison, and Buntin, the trustees, who took the/deed to themselves, their heirs and assigns,
without noticing ther trust. The amount of the purchasemoney was one thousand dollars. Evidence was given upon
the trial) that no money was paid excepting the costs and counsel fee, whicf payment was made from the funds of the United
States, by order of the Secretary, of the Treasurk.'
On the 28th"of June, 1827, a deed was executed by Lagow
and his partners, by which they renounced all claim upon each
other arising: from transactions pf the steam-mill company,
and conveyed the whole property, debts, &c., to Lagow, he,
undertking -to pay all debts due to other persons than the
partnar .
Evidence was given upon the trial, that Hall Neilson had
id" possessibn of that property since 1832, claiming to hold it
uiiderBadollet,. Harrison, and Butitin, who were all dead, however, prior ta the'commencement of the suit.
WhiV the' tetmibfiy -was closed, the court, at the itistan-ce of
the'plaintiff, Ltaow, gave the following instructions to' the liry.
1. That, on the proof of possession as owners by the steam)hill cbiipany, in 1820 and of the conveyance'by the company
to-Lao~W ' of Juhb, 1827, Lgow, the plaintiff, is entitled'tn rc6vef, uhless the' defendant has shown a better title.
2: Thaf the serertli: sectioh of the act of Corikrbis of thd1t
of, MyIa,1820, forbiasIt tfie pupchase of any lMnd on accoiint of
the United States," unless authorized by act of Congress;
65*

774

SUPREME COURT.
Weildon v. LDagow.

3. That the term "purchase of land" in law, and in the act
of Congress, means any and every- mode of acquiring an interest-in real estate other than by inheritance.
4. .That, if the government is prohibited from purchasing
land directly in its own name, it is also' prohibited froi purchasing indirectly in the name of, an agent or trustee.
. 5. That if there is.any act of Congress or law authorizing
the conveyance fron the bank to the trustees, it is' incumbent
on the defendaift to show it; and from the fact that the defendant does not set up any such act or law, the jury may infer
there is none.
6. That all acts, deeds, and agreements, contrary to the plain
language, or even to the policy, of an act of Congress, -are void.
7.- That if the deed of trust from the bank is contrary to
the letter, or to the spirit and meaning, or to the policy, of the
act of the 1st of May, 1820,.it is void; 'and the interest which
the bank then had' in the'land remained in the bank.
14. That it is incumbent on the defendant to show the conveyance made by the trustees, if any such they did make.
20. That to defeat the plaintiff's title, founded on prior pos-.
session, as owner, it is necessary-that the title set up by defendant should be shown to be a subsisting title, and superior to
Lagow's title. To which instructions the defendant at the
time excepted.
The court then; at the instance of the defendant, gave the
following' -instructions to the jur , to wit, that if they believe,
from the evidence, that defendant, and those under whom he
claims, had been in peacedble adverse possession more than
twenty years at the time this suit was commenced, the claim
of the plaintiff is barred by the statute of limitations, and they
must find for the defendant; to which instruction the plaintiff
at the time excepted.
The defendant then asked the court to'give to the jury the
following instructions, to wit:.-.
2d. That the plaintiff in this case, in order to recover, must
-establish a good title in himself, and that he cannot recover if
the defendant. has shown the real title to the land to be in
another persop ; that it is sufficient if the defendant has made
it appear to the jury that .a legal and possessory title does not
subsist in the plaintiff.
3d. That it was competent for the Bank of Vincennes to
make a deed to trustees for the benefit of the United States,
and such a deed is valid and lawful for the purpose for which it
was made; but the court:refused to give the same to the jury;
to which refusal of the court the defendant at the time excepted.

JANUARY- TER.M, 1849.

T75

Neilson v. Lagow.

Under these instructions and refusals the jury found a verdict
for the plaintiff, Lagow. A motion was made for a new trial,
which was overruled, and the case carried.up to the Supreme
Court of Indiana, -where-the judgment of the court below was
affrmed. A writ of error, issued in the manner already stated,
brought it up to this court.
A motion was made by Mr. Bradley to dismiss the case for
'want of jurisdiction, which was opposed bi Mr. Gillet.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears, that, at the trial in the State court, the plaintiff in
error claimed the land in dispute under an authority which he
alleged had been exercised by the ,Secretary of the Treasury
in behalf of the United States; and the decision was against
the validity of the authority-thus alleged to have been exercised.
Whether the title of the plaintiff in error can be maintained
under it, or not, will be the subject *ofinquiry when the case is
heard on its merits. That question is not now before the
court, and the only point to be determined at this time is,
whether we have*jurisdiction to try and decide it. We think
it is evidently one of the cases prescribed for in the twenty-fifth

section of the act of 1789; and the motion to dismiss is therefore overruled.
Order.
On-consideration of the motion made in this cause -on a prior
day of the present term, to wit, oti Friday, .the 2d instant, to
dismiss the-writ of error, and of the arguments -of counsel.
thereupon had, as well against as in support of the motion, it
is now here ordered by the court; that the said motion be, and
.the same is hereby, overruled.

