176

SUPREME COURT.
Lewis v. Lewis.

WiLLux LEwiS, WHO SUES FOR THE USE or NIc, os
PLAINTIFF, v. THOxAs LEwis, ADmINISTRATOR DE
MOSES BROADWELL, DECEASED.

LoNGwORTH,
BOXIS NON

OF

By a law of the State of Illinois, passed in 1827, "every action of covenant shall
be commenced within sixteen years after the cause of such action shall have accrued, and not after." But by a 'proviso, persons beyond the limits of the State
were exempted from the operation of the law, and might bring the action at any
time within sixteen years after coming within the State. Afterwards, in 1837, this
proviso was repealed.
The statute of 1827 beginis to run, as to non-residents, from the time'of the repeal
of the saving clause, in 1837, and not before.

Tiris case came lp -from the ,Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Illinois, on a certificate of division
in opinion between the judges thereof.
It was an action of covenant under the following circumstances.
'On the 12t-h of March; 1819, Broadwell executed a deed *ithk
a general warranty.to William Lewis, by which he conveyed
to him a tract of land in Ohio.
In June, 1825, one Matthews recovered, by ejectment, one
hundred acres of the land.
Broadwell died in 1827, and one Cromwell was appointed his.
administrator.
In 1843, Thomas Lewis was appointed administrator de bonis
non, and in the same year William Lewis brought this action.
Amongst other pleas filed (which it is not necessary to notice) was one of limitation, to which the plaintiff rdplied that
he was beyond the limits of the State.
To this replication the defendant demurred.
The acts of the legislature of Illinois, under which the
question was raised, were the two followingThe first, passed on the I 0th of February, 1827, and entitled
"An act for the limitation of actions and for avoiding vexatious
lawsuits."
"Sec. 4. That every action of debt, or covenant for rent, or
arrearages of rent, founded upon any lease under seal, and every
action of debt or covenant, founded upon any single or penal
bill, promissory note, or writing obligatory, for the direct payment of money, or the delivery of property, or the performance
of.covenants, or upon any award under the hands and seals of
arbitrators, for the payment of money only, shall be commenced
within sixteen years after the Cause of such action shall have
accrued, and not after; but if any payment shall have been
made on any such lease, single or penal bill, promissory note,
writing obligatory, or award, within sixteen years after, such
payment shall be good and effectual in law, and not after."

JANUARY TERM, 1849

777

Lewis v. Lewis.

"Sec. 7. That every real, possessory, ancestral, or mixed action, or wHt of right, brought for the recovery of any .lands,
tenements,, or hereditaments, shall be brought within twenty
years next after the right or title thereto, or cause of such action
-accrued, and not after: Provided, that in all the foregoing cases
in this act mentioned,, where the person or persons, who shall
have right of entry, title, or cause of action, is, are, or shiall
be at the time of such right of .entry, title, or cause of action,
under the age of twenty-one years, insane, beyond the limits
f
this State, or feme covert, such.person or persons may make
such entry, or institute such action, so that the same be done
within such time as is within.the different sections of this act
limited after his or her becoming of full age, san6, feme sole,
or coming within this 'State."
The other act was passed on the 11th of February, 1837,
and was as follows:"An act to amend an act entitled ' An act for the limitation of
actions, and for avoiding vexatious lawsuits.'
"Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the people of the State of-Illinois,
represented in the General Assembly, that the proviso to the
seventh section of the act, to which'this is an amendment, shall
not be held to extend to any non-resident, unless such 'non-.
resident be under the age of twenty-one years, insane, or feme
covert, and then,, in that case, the rights of such persons 'shall
be' saved for the time limited by the different sections of said
act; after his or her becoming of full age, sane, or feme sole.
Approved February 11, 1837."
Upon the trial, the opinions of. the judges were opposed upon
the following points, which were certified to this *court:"1st. Whether the 'statute of 1827 begins to run from the
time of the repeal of the saving clause in 1837, or from the.
time the debt became due.
"2d. Whether the statute uegan to run before administration
was granted:.
"3d. Whether the period which elapsed between the two
administrations mentioned in the replicatibn is to be deducted
from the period of the statute of limitations of .1827."
The case was argued by Mr. Wright, for the plaintiff, and
Mr. Lawrence and Mr. Lincoln, for the defendant.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This.case depends upon the construction and operation of the
statutes of limitation of the State of Illinois, and comes before
us upon a certificate of division betwedn the judges of the Circuit Court.

778

SUPREME COURT.
Lewis v. Lewis.

It is an action of covenant, brought in 1843, uon causes of
action which accrued before 1827. The defendant pleaded
the statute of limitations; to which the plaintiff replied, that, at
the time the causes of action accrued, he was in part6 beyond
.,the limits of.the State, and has ever since remained, and yet is,
beyond the'Ilimits of' the State. The defendant, demurred to
this replication, and the plaintiff joined in demurrer.
An act- for the limitation: of actions was passed on the 10th
of February, 1827, by which it was, among other things, provided, that every action for the performance of covenants should
"be commenced -Within sixteen years after the cause of such
action should have accrued, and not after." But,. by a proviso
in the seventh section of the act, it is declared, that every person who was or should be, at the time of such cause of action,
beyond the limits of the'State, might institute his action within
-the time limited in the act, after coming within the State. After-wards, by a law passed February 11, 1837, it was enacted,
that this proviso should not be held to extend td any.non-resident, unless such non-resident was under th6 age of twentyone
.years, insane, or feme covert.
"'Uppii
the argument of the demurrer, the following points
arose, upon. .which the judges were opposed in opinion) and
which have been certified to this court :
tf1st. Whether the statute of -1827 begins to'run from the
time of the repeal of the saving*clause in 1837, or from the
time the 'debt bechme due.
'"2d. Whether the statute began to run before administration
was granted.
,"3d. Whether the period which elapsed. between the two
administrations mentioned in the replication is to be deducted,
from the period of the statute of limitations of 1827."
Previous to the act of 1827, there was io -law of the State
of Illinois which -limited the time within which an action of
covenant should be brought; and, consequently, there was no
restriction as to the period within which a suit might be instituted upon, the cause of action now in question: The same
thing was the case after the passage of this act, as long as the
.plaintiff continued beyond the limits of the State. For, until
he came into it, the proviso above-mentioned excluded this
cause of action from the operation of the statute. And as the
plaintiff did not- come, into the State, there was lno, limitation
running against:it until the passage of the act of 1837o This
act, by repealing the saving contained in the -former law,
brought-the claim withinits provisions, and subjected it to the
limitations therein contained.
The-question is, From what time is this limitation to be cal-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

779

Lewis v. Lewis.

culated? Upon principle, it would seem to be clear, that it
must commence when the cause of action is first subjected to
the operation of the statute, unless. the legislature has otherwise provided. ' For it is. at that time that the statute first acts
upon it, and limits the period within which suit must 'be
brought. 'Such is obviously the policy and intention of the
Illinois statute "of limitations. For if the plaintiff had come
into the State the day before the act of 1837' was passed, and
by that means subjected his cause of action to the provisions
of *theformer law, the limitation would have commenced running on that day, and his action would not have been barred
until the expiration of sixteen-years, afterwards. 'For-the act
of 1827 gaye,him sixteen years from the time he brought his
cause of action, within its operation.
He did not, however, conme into the State; and his cause of
action was brought within the limitation of that law, not by"
his own act, but by another law. 'Can there be any reason for
a different run of limitation in the latter case, fro m that which
the law itself has provided in the former ? The construction
and object and policy of the act of 1827 must be the. same in
both instances; and the, act of 1837 makes- no change in it
in that respect. It merely subjects the cause of action to'
its limitations, and does precisely what the plaintiff himself
would have done if he had come into the State, - that is
to say; it brought the plaintiff within the' limitations of the
former law, and subjected him to 'the restrictions therein contained.
The question, however, has been. already decided in this
court in the case of Ross et al. v. Duval-et al., 13 Pet. 62. In
,that case a.saving clause in a statute of limitations of Virginia,
similar to the one contained in the Illinois law, had beeh repealed by a subsequent statute. And this -court decided, that,
against the persons embraced, in the saving clause of the original law', limitations would not begin to run until the time of
'the rep6al; and that the party was entitled to the full period
of limitation prescribed in the original act, commencing from
*the date .of the repealing law.
A passage in the report of that case, in page 64, was cited

in the argument, as maintaining a contrary doctrine.

.But it

will be found to be entirely consistent with what the court
had previously said. It relates to claims included in a statute
of limitation's, when, from the language of the law, it may be
justly inferred that the legislature intended to embrace a period
of time already past, during which the party' had omitted to
sue, yet still leaving him reasonable time to prosecute, hi
claim. But the rule there stated can have no application, to. the

780

SUPREME COURT.
Lewis v. Lewis.

case. beforeus; for this claim was not embraced in, nor operated
upon b , the statute of limitations -of 1827. -It was brought
within it by the subsequent law. And that law makes no new
limitations as to past or future time, and. merely subjects the
cause of action to the provisions of the original law. The.
passage above mentioned, therefore, cannot bpply to it, and is
not inconsistent with what had before been said in relation to
the effect of-a law repealing a saving in a.former act of limitations.
Under this view of the subject, the court is of opinion, upon
the first-point in the certificato of division, that the statute of
1827 begins to run from the time of the repeal.of the saving
clause in 1837, and not before; and will direct it to be so certified to the Circuit Court.
And as this decision disposes of the whole case preserited by
the demurrer, the other points do not arise; and'it is unnecessary to examine them.
Mr. Justice McLEAN.
I dissent from the opinion just pronounced. It overrules asolemn decision of this court in the case of Ross et al. v. Duval
et al., 13 Peters, 57 .Andas that opinion is relied on as sustaining the decision now givenj I shall examine it.
The judgment of the court in that case was placed upon
two grounds. First, that the action was barred under the'
statute of Virginia of 1792. That act provided, that where an
execution had not issued on a judgment, it might be revived
within ten years, or where an execution was issued, and there
was no return, other executions might be issued within the ten
years from the rendition of the judgment. .There was a
saving in the act in behalf of infants and persons beyond the
Comii dnwealth, 1' giving five years after the removal of the
disability to proceed on the judgment."
By the act of 1.826, th6 saving in the act of 1792 was repealed, but the time of the bar was to be computed, as specially
provided, from the time of the repeal of the saving.
The court considered the act of 1792 as a limitation on the
judgment,- and, as more than ten years had elapsed, that all
proceedings on the judgment were barred. There was nothing
in the pleadings or evidence which showed that the plaintiff
was within the saving of the statute.
There is another view of this case,
And the court remark, -"
which, though not much conside-ed in the argument, is deemed
important by the court." "And this arises under the process act
of 1828," &c. " If the act of 1792, or any part of it, is to be
considered as a process act merely, and notan act of limitations,

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

781

Lewi&-v.' Lewis.

the act of 1828 makes it the law of Congress for the State of
Virginia, and gives immediate effect to it." "If it be viewed as
an * ct of limitations merely, and not for the regulation of process, it then *takes effect, as a rule of property, and is a rule
of decision in the courts of the United States under the thirtyfourth section of the Judiciary Act." "In either case, effect is
.given to the act of 1792, and'it is decisive of the present controversy."
." But if it be considered, as contended, an act of limitations
adopted by the act of 1828, the court are to give a construction
to the act of 1828. If this be clear in its provisions, we are
bound to give effect to -it, although it may, to somb extent, vary
the construction of the act of 1792. And thjs is no violation of
the rule that this court will regard the..settled construction of a
State statute as a rule of decision. For in this case the construction of the State law, in regard to the effect it shdll have,
is controlled by the paramount law of CoQngress."
."The judgment in the Circuit Court was entered in 1821, so
that seven years of the ten years' limitation of the act of 1792
had run when it was adopted by the act of 1828. Now the
question is, shall no effect be given to this act of Congress inVirginia before its passage, because of the construction by the
Virginia courts of the act of 1792 ?"
"1It must be recollected, that this act of 1828 is a national
law, and was intended to operate in the national courts in every
State. As it regards some of the States, it may at first have
operated less beneficially in them than in others; but its provisions took immediate effect in all the States."
"It is a sound principle, that where a statute of limitations.
prescribes the time within which suit shall be brought, or an
act done, and a. part of the time has elapsed, e'ect may be.
given to the act; and the time yet to run, being a reasonabre
part of .the whole time, will be coisidered the limitation in the
mind of the legislature in such cases."
"There may be some contradictory decisions on this point,
in. some of the States, which have been influenced by local
considerations, and the peculiar language or policy of certain
acts of limitationS. But the rule is believed. to be founded on
principle And authority."
I have cited largely from the above decision, to show that
the point was distinctly considered and'decided, as arising under the act of 1828, that effect may be given to a statute of
limitations, where a part of the time has run; but a reasonable
part of the"whole time has yet to run. And this is the principle which is repudiated in the case under consideration. I have
a distinct recollection, that the point was first suggested by the
66
voL. VII.

782

SUPREM-E COURT.
Lewis v. Lewis.

lamented Justice Story and was discussed, and, the- principle
-was laid down with the entire concurrence of the court, so far
as I know. There was no dissent expressed, either in consWtation or on the bench.
It is true .there was another ground on which the decision
was rested; but it was also placed upon this ground, so that
one ground as well as the other was ruled by the court. iIn the
case of Ross, the court say, -" The saving clause of the act of
1792, as:
to non-residents, is repealed, the only effect of which
is to bring within the limitation of the statute of i792 those
who were within its saving,-clause, and against whom the
statute-had not begun to run. Against such persons the statute
could not begin to operate, until -he repeal of the exception by
the act of 1826."1 And -that remark is.considered by the court,
in the case before na, as having been made on generalprinciples.
Now such was the express provision of the act of 1826, that
it should take effect from its date, and the remark was made in
reference to that provision.
There is no rule better-settled, in the construction of statutes of
limitations, than that effect must be given to them according to
their language. If-they make no exception in favot of infants,
femes coverts, or non-residents, .the courts can make none.
And when the exceptions of a statute of limitations are -repealed, the act stands as though it had been origihally pssed without theni. In Jackson v. Lamphier 3 Peters, 280, the court
say, " The time and manner of their operation, '[statutes of
limitations,] the exceptions to them, and the 'acts from which
the time limited shall begin to run will generally. depend on
the sound discretion, of the legislature. Cases, however, may
occur, where- the provisions of the law on these subjects may
be so unreasonabl6, as to amount to a-denial of a right, and to
callfor'the interposition of the court. If thd legislature of a
State should pass an act by.,hich a past right of acti6n shall
be barred, and without any allowance of time f6r -the institution of a suit in future, it would, be difficult to reconcile such
An- act with the express constitutional provisions.in favor of
the -rights of private property.!' It must be admitted that the
legislature could not bar.a claim, to which there was no bar;
.but no one can doubt that a statute may bar claims where the
right of action existed, and a reasonable part of the whole"time
of the statute has to run. This is often done in some of the
States. But, while it is not doubted .that the legislature may
do this, it is objected that-it cannot be done as a matter of con.
struction.
This objection is more plausible than sound. The statute
creates a bar, and the question arises on its construction, whether

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

783

Lewis; v. Lewis.

it is ."so unreasonable as to amount to a denial of,a right," inthe
language of this courf in the case above cited.- If the answer
to this shall be in the affirmative,-then, in the language above
citbd, "it would be difficult to reconcile such an act with the
express constitutiohal provisions in favor of the rights of
private property." But if the question can be answered in the
negative, theft a court is bound to give effect to the statute.
And here is an answer, in the words of this court, to the principal ground taken in the case under eonsideration, and on
which the decision is founded. If the court may determine
whether a statute is so unreasonable as to cut off a private right,
of necessity they may decide whether it is not so reasonable as
to be enforced.
In the case before us, the Illinois act of 1827 limits the right
of action to sixteen years, and the proviso gives-the same time
to sue to a non-resident, after he shall come within the State.
But this proviso was repealed by the act of f837, which placed
residents and non-residents, as to the time of bringing an action,
on the same footing. The plaiutif's cause of action accrued.
under the act of 1827., in 1837, the saving being repealed, six
years were left-for the statute to run to bar the claim. Was this
a reasonable time? The answer must be in the affirmative.
Then the act is not unconstitutional. It deprives the party of
no right. In the language of the court in the case of Ross V.
Duval, "the time yet to run, (when the proviso was repealed,)
being a reasonable part of the whole time, will be considered
the limitation in the mind of the legislature, in such cases."
There can .beno mistake as to the point decided by the court;
and that point'is directly opposed to the decision now made.
In such cases, it is always better to overrule a former opinion
directly, than to destroy its force by indirection. In their former opinion the court say, "The rule is believed to be founded
on principle and authority."
In statutes of limitations it is usual to say, they shall begin
to run from the time the action'shall hereafter accrue, and when
a saving of such act is repealed, that it shall operate from the
date of the repeal ; and if these provisions be not in the acts,
they will, as a matter of course, take effect upon their passage.
They must take effect from their passage, unless the language
shows the time is to be computed from the date of the act. Without this provikion, the question would arise whether a rnasonable pat "ofthe time allowed by the statute, from the time.
the action accrued, had yet to run, as before remarked.
In Luckett v. Dunn and Bass, 3 Litt. 218, the court say, "1But the privilege previously-'allowed t persons who might

be out of the country when their caus

a~tin,' qr right of

784

SUPREME COURT.
'Van Rensselaer v. Wattss Executors.

entry, accrued, to maintain their action within ten years after
theiireturn, was expressly rep6ealed,'by the first section of the
act of January, 1814, which, by a"subsequent clause in the
third-section of the same act, was to take effect at the. expira-tion of six months from its passage; and it was not until more
than a year after the passage of that act, that this suit was brought
by Luckett in the Circuit Court. It is obvious, therefore) that
the absence of Buckner Pittman cannot have prevented the time
which has 6lapsed since the lot had been'held adversely by the
defendants, and those through whom they claim, from barring
the plaintiff's action.
The rule of so cbnstruing a'statute as n'ot to give ita retrospective effect is admitted. And a legislature can never be
presumed to intend t6 destroy a vested right. Indeed, they
have no power to pass such a law. But a law may be. constitu-tional, and yet have a retrospective effect. Matthewson V.
Satterlee, 2 Peters, 380. In the case under examination, it
is not propose&,to give the statute a retrospective effect, or to
affect in .any degree vested rights by a construction of it. - The
only question is, whethei'the six years that the statute had to
run, on the repeal of the saving, is a reasonable part 0'f the
whole time required by the act to constitute a bar. The plaintiff though not a resident of the State, might have sued so
soon as the right of action accrued.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District: of
Illinois, and on the point or question on which-the judges of
the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and. which was
certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of
Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued by
counsel. On .consideration whereof, it is the. opinion of this
court, that the statute of 1827 begins to run from the time of
the repeal of the saving clause in 1837, and not before.
Whereupon, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

JEREDE

VAN

RENssEiER,

APPELLANT, V. JOHN WATTS'S ExEc6Uros.

Mr. Blunt, of counsel for the appellant in this cause, moved
he court to direct the clerk to docket the case as of the time

