650..

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard et al. v.. Gibson.

point in the case, within the meaning of thQ act of Congress,
has been certified to this court, it is thereupon now here or'dered and decreed by- this court, that this cause be and the
same is hereby dismissed,- and that this cause be and the same
is hereby remanded to. the said Circuit Court, to be proceeded
in according to law.

FREDERICK J. AND SAxTEIL W. BARED AND HENRY Q. HAWLEY,
APPELLANTS,

V.

JOHN GIBSbO.*

Where a decre in chhneery refers thq matters to a.master to ascertain the -amount
of damiges, and in the mean time the bill is not dismissed, nor is there a decree
for costs, the decree is not a final one, from which an appeal will lie to this court,
although there is a perpetual injunction granted,
The amount of damage which will follow from restraining a party from using a
machine held under a patent right is a proper considerationto be addressil to
the' Circuit Court but does not cdstitute a ground of appeal.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of New York.
The question being, whether or not the decree of the Circuit Court was final, the Reporter thinks it proper to insert the
whole of that decree, together with the statement of facts, as
he finds it prepared by Mr. Justice Nelson.
Circuit Court, United States.
JOHN GIBSON~

V.

.

nEquity

E
and others.)
I.
W. Woodworth conveyed to John Gibson the exclusive-right to the Woodworth planing-machinte in and for the
city and county of Albany, with the single exception of two
rights .in the town of Watervliet, in said county. With this
exception, the whole right of the co"unty was in Gibson.
1. The two machines, the right to use which was thus
excepted, consisted, first, of a machine in use at the time in
said town by Rousseau and Edston, which had been erected
under the first term of the .patent, and the right to continue
which they claimed during any extension of the gi.ent; and,
second, of- a machine which Gibson had conveyed to Woodworth, "andby him to Rousseau and Easton.
II. Woodworth, on the 19th of May, 1842, agreed with.
FREDZDEICK J. BAPR ND
-W.

31r. Chief Justice Taney did not sit in this cause, being indisposed at the time
it was argued.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

651

Barnard et aL v. Gibson.

Rousseau and Easton to make an assignment to them by
which they would. become vested more fully with the right of
running the machine in the town "of Watervliet, which they
claimed under the first term of the patent; and also to assign
to them the right to use the other machine- which had been
conveyed to him by Gibson, of even date with this agreement.
In consideration of which, Rousseau and Easton paid -at the
time $ 200 ; and, in case the extension should be obtained, and
assigunmet of the two machines, as above, stipulated for, made,
they would pay, in addition, $ 2,000, in four equal annual instalments.
IV. This agreement of the 19th of May, 1842, was modified by an indorsement on the same, signed by all Tarties, 26th
April, 1843, in which it was recited that Rousseau and Easton had, on that day, executed and d~livered to Woodworth
eight promissory notes, of $ 250 each, payable at different
periods, the last one 1st July, 1846; in consideration thereof, the said - Woodworth agreed that, upon payment of said
notes as they became due, he would make the assignments
stipulated for in the said agreement referred to.
V. On the '12th of August, 1844, Woodworth assigned all
his interest in this, contract with Rousseau and Easton in respect-to the two machines, and all right and title to the use of
the same, to J. G. Wilson, by which he took the place of
Woodworth.
VI. On the lth of. November, 1844, Gibson renoimced and
released *all right or claim, if 'any, to these two'machines, to J.
G. Wilson, this having been supposed necessary to enable Wilson to sue'Rousseau and Easton for breach of their contract,
or for an infringement of thp Woodworth patent and. extension by the use of the machines in-the town" of Watervliet,
after refusing to fulfil their contract; Gibson claimed no right
to the use of the two machines in said'town, as he had already
passed to Woodworth all 'the right which he ever had in the
same. The release was given for abundant caution, the better
tp secure to Wilson the right which he had acquired by the
assignment from Woodworth.
VII. On the 5th of December, 1845, S. G. Wilson granted
to F. I. Barnard & Son a license to constv'ct and use two
machines in the town of Watervliet, for which he was to receive $ 4,000 ; but it was then and -there agreed, that, if the
decision of the Supreme Court of the United States, in a case
then pending between Wilson and Rousseau and Easton,
should be against Wilson, so as to exclude him from the use of
-the said two machines in the said town, then he was to repay
to* Barnard & Son $ 2,000, paid to him on that day in pprt

652

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard et a]Lv. Gibson.

satisfaction of 'the-purchase-money ; but if the decision should
be in favor of. Wilson, and Barnard & Son should' be put in
possession of the right 'to erect and use" the two machines in
said town, then they were to pay to Wilson a further sum
of $ 2,000.
VIII. Upon the foregoing state of facts, and upon the pleadingi and proofs in the 'ease,.it is quite clear, that, down to the
time of the grant of Wilson. to Barnard & Son,' the 5th of December, 1845, Gibson, the complainant, possessed the exclusive
right and title to the planing-machine in and for the county of
Albany, with the exception of the two rights in the town of
Watervliet, namely, the right to use one claimed'by Rousseau
and Easton, nnder the first grant, and more effectually secured
to themiby Woodworth,-and the one *soldand assigned by Gibson to Woodwbrth, and by him to Rousgeau and Easton..
And, further, that Wilson' possessed no interest' in'any right
to the use of the plahing-machine in the town of Watervliet,
except in the two so. derived from Woodworth by.assignment
of the 12th of August, 1844, and which had before been sold
to Rousseau and Easton, and of which they were in the actu-.
al use and enjoyment. Wilson therefore could grant his interest, whatever it- might be, in these two rights, and nothing
-more; and this-was all that could pass to Barnard & Son under the grant of the 5th- of December, 1845. The. terms of
that agreement also establish,.that it was the interest of Wilson
in these two rights which he intended to sell,,and -Barnard
& Son to purchase.
, IX. The failure of Rousseau and Easton to fulfil their
agreement of purchase with Woodworth, the interest in which
belonged to Wison, did not, of itself, operate to annul and
cancel the contraet. It was a contract partly executed; $ 200
'of the purchase-money had been paid, and promissory notes
given for the residue. The machines had been erected, and
were in operation; and although a court of equity might have
decreed the contract to be delivered up and cancelled upon
terms, until then Rousseau and Easton must be deemed in'the
lawful use and enjoyment of the two rights under the patent.
And even assuming the contract to be'aftnulled, and the parties remitted to 'their original rights, it is clear that Wilson
had power to grant but'one of the rights in said town of Watervliet, as the other was secured to Rousseau -and Edston,
trnder the decision of the court in Wilson v. .them.
An injunction was accordingly issued.
On the 11th of April, 1848, the Circuit Court of the United
States. for the Northern District of New York was in session
at Utica, when the following decree was passed:.--

JANUARY TERM, 1849.
Barnard et &I. v. Gibson.

"This cause having been brought on to be heard upon pleadings and -proofs, and Mr. Win. H. Seward having been heard
on the part of the plaintiff, and Mr. Marcus T. Reynolds on
the part of the defendants, and odue deliberation having, been
had, it is ordered, adjudged, alid decreed, that the defendants
in this cause be, and they are hereby, perpetually enjoined from
any further constructing or using in any manner-, and from selling or disposing in any manner, of the two planing-machines
mentioned in said bill as erected by them in the town of Water,
vlet, in the county ofAlbany, or either of said machines,
which machines are machines for dressing boards and plank, by
planing, tonguing, or grooving, or either, or in some separate
combination, constructed upon the principle and plan specified
and described in the schedule annexed to letters- patent issued
to Win. W. Woodworth, administrator 6f William Woodworth,
on the 8th day of July, 1845; which letters were a renewal
upon a formal surrender for an imperfect specification of letters
patent issued to Win. Woodworth on the 27th day of Decem•ber, 1828, and extended on the 16th day of November, 1842,
to take effect on the 27th, day of December, 1842, and again
extended by act of Congress on the 26th day of February,
1845, and from infringing upon or violating the said patent in
any way whatsoever.
"And it is'further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that it be
referred to Julius Rhodes, Esq., of Albany, counsellor at law,
as a master pro hac vice in this causei with the usual powers
of a master of this court, to ascertain and report the damages
which the plaintiff has sustained, arising from the infringement of his rights by the defendants, by the use of the said
two machines by them.
"1And it is further ordered, that the report of the said master
herein may be made, either to this court in term time, or to- one
of the judges thereof at chambers in vacation ; and that either
party may, on ten days' notice to the other of time and place,
apply, either to this court in term time, or to one of the judges
thereof at chambers in vacation, for confirmation of such report.
"1And it is further ordered, that either party may at any, time,
on ten days' notice of time.and place to the other, apply to this
court' in term time, or to one of the judges thereof in .vacation,
for further directions in the premises.
"And the question of costs, and all other questions in this
caftse, are hereby reserved until the coming in of the said report.
" And the complainant shall either pay to the defendants, or
set off against the damages to be awarded, the sum of two

55 *

654

SUPREME

COURT-

Barnard et al. v. Gibson.

thousand dollars, which he offered in his bill to pay them, with
interest from the 5th of December, 1845."
An ajppeal from this decree brought the case up to this
court.
Mr. Seward moved to dismiss the appeal, upon the ground
that the decree was not a final one, which motion was opposed
by Mr. Taber.
Mr. Seward stated the case, and then said that it was admitted that an appeal would not lie except from a final decree.
The only question is, what is the .distinction between final and
interlocutory decrees.
The same principle may be applied
.which governs the construction of judgments at law; those are
final which grant a remedy upon the whole matter, and dismiss
a party from the court. , But in equity there is some difficulty,
owing to the different nature of the relief which is granted. A
final decree in equity may bedefined to be one which definitively adjudges the whole subject-matter; an interlocutory decree, one which disposes of some parts, and reserves others for
future decision.
(2 Daniel, Ch. Pr., Part 2, pp. 631, 632, 635,
638, 641, London ed. of 1840.) The present decree is not
final, when tested by the principles laid down by Daniel.
1. It expressly reserves the question of costs. They do not
depend upon any statute, but upon judicial discretion.
2. It does not determine the amount of damages, but refers
the subject to a master to ascertain and report.
3. Even if the master decides, still the decree does not adjudge them to be according to the report.
- 4. It does not settle any principles upon which damages can
be computed; whether they are for one machine or two, &c.
5. It reserves a decision upon the rights of the respective
parties. Th complainant offered, in his bill, to pay $ 2,000;
the decree says he shall do so, but does not say whether it is
an extinguishment of the claim,,or only a set-off.
6. The bill prays that the machines and their produce may
be delivered to the plaintiff; but the decree is silent upon this
point. 'Ihe question is reserved. It may be said that a perpetual injunction is decisive of the rights bf the parties. But
it is only an order, which the court may revoke at any time.
It cannot be pleaded in bar. We think the parties are still in
court.
7. The decree does not .give all the. relief which is prayed
for in the bill. Whatever is asked and not granted is left undecided, because the bill is not dismissed as to that.
(Mr. Seward then commented on . 10 Wheat. 502; 11
Wheat. 429; 8 Peters,'318; 9 Peters, 1; 6 Cranch, 51; 15

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

655

Barnard et al. v. Gibson.

Peters, 287; 2 How. 62; 5 How. 51; 6 How. 203; 1b.
208, 209.)
Mir. A. Taber, against the motion.
1. The decree in question is a "final decree," upon a sound
construction -of the Judiciary Act of 1803, chap. 93, § 2. ,The
fundamental purpose, of this tct was to give an appeal, if required, where the amount in controversy was sufficient, to the
end that the substantial rights of parties should not be finally
disposed, of by Circuit Courts. Not so of the English statutes
of limitations, authorities construing which have been cited on
the other side. Their leading object was, not to give or take
away an appeal, but to restrict by a short limitation appeals
taken pendente lite, allowing a longer one to those taken after
the cause was ended. Wherefore, the words "final decree,"
in these English acts, are justly interpreted to mean one which
is afinis of the cause, and in our act, one which is-a finis of
substantial rights of the parties, which, unless immediately
appealed from, would take away property from one and give it
to another, or work irreparable mischief. (6 How. 202, 203,
206; 13 Petes, 15; 3 Cranch, 179; 2 Smith's Chan. Prac. 187,
188.)
The decree in question would do both. It was intended by
the Circuit Court finally to adjudge and determine -the patent
rights in controversy. It takes them away from the defendants, and vests them in the complainant ; and, by the perpetual
injunction it directs, immediately renders worse than valueless,
encumbrance upon the ground, -the expensive erections
-an
of the defendants for their enjoyment;
For the costs of the cause, no appeal would hereafter lie.
(4 Russell, Ch. 180; 3 Peters, 307, 319; 2 How. 210, 237.)
The other matters reserved are merely in execution of the decree already passed. Before these matters could have been adjusted, and an appeal prosecuted to effect, our patent rights
would have expired by their own limitation, and nothing re-main for the appellate offices of this court but a post mortem
examination of our rights for the vindication of abstract law.
The perpetual injunction, the main relief prayed, is a final
execution; not the mere extension of a preliminary injunction,
which latter has been repeatedly denied in this cause,.and is
wholly inapplicable to a contest between assignees under the
same patent, which is, therefore, no more !primdfade evidence
for one party. than the other. (4 Burr. 2303, 2400 ; I Vernon,
120; lb. 275; 7 Yes. 1; 3 Meriv. 622;" 14 Yes. 130-132;
Drewry on Injunctions, 223, § 5, 221, 3, 223, § 4; Eden on
Injunctibns, 207.)

656

SUPREME COURT.Barnard et al v. Gibson.

2. But if this is not a case for an appeal under the act above
cited, it assuredly'niust be onb of "all other cases," provided
for by the seventeenth section of the patent act of 1836, chap.
747. In patent .causes, evidently for the reasons above alluded
to, there is no limitation of an appeal except the safe one, that
"the court shall deem it. reasonable to allow the same." If
the act means this honorable court, this appeal has been allowed
by it, by one of its justices at chambers.* If, as is more prob-able, the Circuit Court was intended (6 How. 458, and note,
and 477), theft Justice Nelson, being a quorum of that court
.(Laws of 1837, chap. 801, sect. 3), acted as such, judicially, in
allowing it at chambers. (1 Brock. 380.) Or if error l4as .occurti in the manner of taking this appeal, no statute r1stfiction being in the way, it should be allowed, in furtherance of
justice, to be amended now. (Laws of 17891 chap. 20, sect.
32; 16 Peters, 319; 7 Wend, 508.) And this, according to
the last-cited case, would be properly done by simply denying
this motion.
3. If it be replied to the last point, that this is not a case
arising under the patent law, but under the common law of
contracts and assignments, then the Circuit Court never had.
jurisdiction, the cause being' between residents of the same
State, and an appeal lies at any time, to reverse its decision already made, and dismiss the cause. (2 How. 244; 3 ib. 693;
8 Peters, 148; 16 ib. 97; 3 Dallas, 19.)
Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court for
the Northern District of New York.
The parties claim conflicting interests as assignees of Woodworth's patented planing-machine. The cause was submitted'
to the circuit judge, who decreed, that the defendants below
be perpetually enjoined from 4ny further constructing or using
in any mannei .the tw6 planing-machines, &c., and the case
wasreferred to a master to ascertain and report the damages
which the plaintiff has sustained, arising from the infringement
of his rights by the defendants by the use of the said two machines. The report of the master to be made in term time,
or to one of the judges at chambers in vacation, and on ten
days' notice either party to move for confirmation of the report,
&c. The question of costs was reserved until, the coming in
of the report, &c.
A motion is made to dismiss this appeal, on the ground that
the decree is not final.
No point is better settled in this court, than that an appeal
may be prosecuted only from a final decree. The cases are

JANoUARY

TERM, 1849.

657

Barnard et al. v. Gibson.

numerous where appeals have been dismissed, because the decree of the Circuit Court was not final. It is supposed.Jthere
was a departure from this uniform course of decision, at the
last term, in the case of Forgay et al. v. Conrad, 6 How' 201.
In that case the court says, -" 1 The decree not only decides
the title to the property in dispute, and annuls the deeds under which the defendants claim, but also directs the property in
dispute to be delivered to the ,complainant, and awards executiofi. And according to the last paragraph in the decree, the
bill is retained merely for the purpose of adjusting the accounts
referred to the master. In all other respects, the whole of the
matters brought into controversy by the bill are finally disposed of as to all of the defendants, and the bill as to them is
"If these appellants,
'no longer pending befdre the court."
therefore, ifiust wait until the accounts are reported by the
master and confirmed by the court, they will be subjected to
irreparable injury."
The decree in that case would have been executed by a sale
of the property,- and- the proceeds distributed among the creditors of the bankrupt, and, lost to 'the appellants, before the
minor matters of account referred to the master could be adjusted and acted on by.the court. The course of procedure
in the, Circuit Court was irregular, and thq consequent injury
to the defendants would have'been irreparable. Effect should
not be given to its final orders by the Circuit Court, until the
matters in controversy shall be so adjusted as to make the
decree- final. Any other c.urse of proceeding will, in many
cases, make the remedy by an appeal of no value.
The decree in the case under consideration is not final,
within the decisions of this court. The injunction prayqd for
was .made perpetual, but there was a 'reference to a master to
ascertain the .damages by reason of the 'infringement; the
bill was not dismissed, nor was there e decree for costs. In
several important particulars, this decree falls below the rule of
decision in Forgay v. Conrad. The execution of the decree
in that case would have inflicted on the defendant'below an
irreparable injury. The bill was dismissed as to the principal
matters in controversy, and there was a decree for costs.
It is said that the decree in this case, by enjoining the defendants below from the use of. their machines, destroys their
value and places the defendants in a remediless condition.
That in the course of a few months their right to run the
machines will expire, and that no reparation can be 'obtained
for the suspension of a right by the act of the court. It is
alleged, too, that many thousands of dollars have been invested in the machinery, which by such a procedure becomes useless.

658

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. BoisdQr's Heirs.

The hardship stated is an unanswerable objection to theoperation of: the injunction, until all the matters shall be finally
adjusted. If the injunction has been inadvertently granted,
the Circuit Court has power to susperid it or set it aside, until
the report of the master shall be sanctioned. And unless the
defendants below are in doubtful circumstances, and canrotgive bond to respond in. damages for the 'use of the machines,
should the right of the plaintiff be finally established, we sup,pose that the injunction will .be suspended. Such is a correct
course of practice, as indicated by the decisions of this court,.
and that is a rule of decision lfor the Circuit Court.
The appeal is dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, and it appearing to. the court here
that the decree of the court below complained of is not a-final
decree, within the meaning of the act of Congress, it is
thereujon now here ordered and decreed by this court, that
this cause be and the same is hereby dismissed for the want of
jurisdiction.

THE UNITED STATES, APELLANTS, v. THE HEms or Louis BoIsDont.*
The meaning of the forty-third rule of-this court is,.that, if a judgment'or decree in
-the court below be rendered more than thirty days before the commencement of'
the term of'this court and the record be not filed within the first six days of the
term, the appellee or defendant in error may docket the case, and move for its
dismissal as the rule prescribes.
But if the judgmen or decree of the court below be rendered less than thirty days
before the commencement of the term of this court, the rule does not apply. - .
THIS

was an appeal from the District Court of the United

States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
Mr. Fendallmoved to dismiss the appeal, upon the grounds
stated in the opinion of the court, which motion was opposed
by Mr. Toucey (Attorney-General).

-the

Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the decree 6f the District Court for
Southern District of Mississippi.
*Mr. Chig.Justice Taney did not sit in this cause.

