276

SUPREME COURT.
Bodley et al. v. Goodrich.

charge and certificate, when duly granted, shall in all courts
of justice be deemed a full and complete discharge of all debts,
contracts, and other engagements of,such bankrupt which are
provable under this act," &c. o
By the fifth section of the act, it is provided that "all creditors whose debts are not due and payable until a future day, all
annuitants, holders of bottomry and respondentia bonds, hold-'
ers of policies of insurance, sureties, indorsers," bail, or other
persons having uncertain or contingent demands against such
bankrupt, shall be permitted to come in and prove Such debts
or claims under this act, and shall have a right, when their
debts and claims become absolute, to have the same allowed
them," &c.
Wells, as surety, was within this section, and: might have
proved his demand against the bankrupt. He had not paid the
last note, but he was liable to pay it, as surety, and that gave
him a right to prove the claim under the., fifth section. And
the fourth section declares, that from all such demands the
bankrupt shall be -discharged. This is the *whole case. Ii
seems to be clear of doubt. The judgment of the State court
is reversed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record of the Supreme Court of Judicature of the State of Vermont, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said Supreme Court of Vermont in this cause
be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that this
cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said Supreme
Court of Vermont, for further proceedings to be had therein irr
conformity to the opinion of this court.

WILLIAM S.

BoDLEY AND- THOMAs E. RoBBINs, APPELLANTS, V. WILLIAM

M.

GOODRICH.

The Commercial and Railroad Bank of Vicksburg assigned all its property to
trustees, reciting that !' the embarrassed situatioxi of the bank and the present inability of its debtors to meet their liabilities, and by consequence that the bank was
unable to pay its debt promptly, rendered it proper that a general assignment
should be made for the benefit of its creditors and completion of t'ne railroad";
it therefore assigned all its property, real, personal, and mixed, to trustees, with
authority to sell the effects assigned, to collect all debts due to the institution, to
complete the railroad, for which purpose they were authorized to borrow a sum
not exceeding $ 250,000, to allow claims against -the bank of a certain description,
and out of the proceeds collectedfirst to pay the principal and interest of the above

JANUARY _7ERM, 1849.

277

Bodley et al. v. Goodrich.
loan; after the'completiorr of the said road, dividends were to be made pro rata
amongst the creditors of the bank who had filed their claims, should there not be
a sufficient amount to pay all the claims; the trustees to receive eight thousand
dollars each per annum for their services.
This deed was fraudulent and void as to all creditors of the bank who did not become parties to it by filing their claims.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of thle United
States for the District of Louisiana.
The facts of the case are sufficiently set forth in the opinion
of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Samuel C. Reid, jr., and Messrs.
Stockton and Steele, in a printed argument, for the defendant
in error, no counsel appearing for the appellants.'
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Lbuisiana.
The complainants represent that they and William Frazer
are the legal owners of a tract of land in East Ouachita land
district, containing four thousand one hundred and twenty-six
acres, as the assignees of the president, directors, and company
of the Commercial and Railroad Bank of Vicksburg, a banking and railroad institution, duly incorporated, in the State
of Mississippi. And they charge the defendant with setting
up a claim to the land by a purchase made by him at sheriff's
sale. And they pray that the defendant may be decreed to reletse to them his title.
The defendant denies, in his answer, that the complainants
have either the equitable or legal title to the above land by'
virtue of the above assignment, on the ground, among others,.
that the president -and directors of the bank and railroad company had no power to assign the property of the bank, and
thereby change the trust committed to them. And the defendant alleges that he.purchased the land for a valuable consideration, bona fide, at sheriff's sale, and that the proceedings.
of such sale were regular and according to law.
The deed of assignment, under which the complainantsclaim, is dated February 13th, 1840. As a reason for the assignment, the deed states "the embarrassed situation of the
president, directors, and company of the Commercial and Railroad Bank, and the present inability of its debtors to meet
their liabilities, and by consequence that the bank was unable
to pay its debts promptly" ; and they come to the conclusion,
"that an assignment of the property, debts, and effects of the
said corporation should at once be made for the benefit of its
creditors, as will most effectually promote the interest of the
creditors of the institution, and protect its debtors from loss24
voL. VIL '

278

SUPRE-ME 6OURT.
Bodley et al. v. Goodrich.

and sacrifice; and at the same time furnish meanst to finish and
complete the railroad immediately; and to protect and secure
to the stockholders of the road the franchise granted by the
charter."
And the president, directors, and company of the bank, in
consideration of the premises, &c., "granted, bargained, sold,
assigned, and transferred, and set over, &c., to William Frazer, Thomas E. Robbins, and William S. Bodley, and to the'
survivor of them, and to their heirs, executors, administrators,
and assigns, &c., all. the property, real, personal, and mixed,
which, either in law or equity, belongs to the. bank and its
branches, wherever such property shall be found."
And the assignees were authorized to sell the effects assigned, to collect all debts due the institution, to complete the
railroad, for which purpose they were authorized to borrow
a sum not exceeding two hundred and fifty.thousand 'dollars,
to allow claims against the bank of a certain description, &c.,
and out of the proceeds collected first to pay the principal and
interest of the above loan. After the completion of the railroad, dividends were to be. made pro rata among the creditors
of the bank-who had filed their claims, should there not be a
sufficient amount to pay all the claims. The trustees were to
receive "out of the proceeds, as a full compensation for their,
labor, trouble, and responsibility in the premises, at the rate.of
eight thousand dollars each per annum.'.
It appears from the deed of assignment, that the creditors of
the bank were designed to be parties to it on filing their
claims, &c. But the creditor who obtained the judgment on
which the property was sold never: became a party to the deed.
The loan authorized was effected, but no dividend has ever
been made among the creditors.
Upon its -face this deed shows an intention by the bank to'
postpone its creditors, use the effects of the bank for the completion of the railroad, pay the trustees enormous salaries, and
make no dividend among the creditors of the bank until these
objects were accomplished.' This was proposed to be done
with the consent of creditors, and if that consent had beeii
given, there could be no objection to the arrangement. The
motive avowed, to complete the railroad, the greater part of
which had been made, and by which an income would be secured' for the benefit of the 'creditors and stockholders of the
bank, would have been legal, and perhaps wise, had the creditors
consented. But the plaintiff in the judgment under which the
property claimed by the plaintiffs was sold did not consent;
consequently he was not bound by the deed of assignment.
It was fraudulent as against him and all other creditors.of the'
bank who did not become parties to the dded.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

279

Crawford et al. v. The Branch Bank of Mobile.

This view is so clearly sustained on general principles, that
it is unnecessary to consider the other questions raised in the
case. Th-Supreme Court of Mississippi in the case of-Arthur
v. The Bank, 9 Smedes & Marshall, 394, held this deed to
be fraudulent against creditors; and also the Supreme Court
of Louisiana, in Fellows v. The Commercial. and Railroad
Bank of Vicksburg, 6 Rob. 246. The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court,
that the decree of the said Circuit C6urt in this cause be and
the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

WILLIAM CRAWFORD AND

DAVID

FILES,

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.

TE BRANCH BANK OF ALABAMA AT MOBILE.
A statute of the State of Alabama, directing that promissory notes given to the
cashier of a bank may be sued and collected in the name of the bank, is a law
which affects the remedy only, and, although passed after the note was executed,
does not impair the obligation of the contract.
Besides, the record ,does not show that the question of the consistency of the statute
with the Constitution of the United States was raised in the State court; and
therefore a writ of ehror issued under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act
must be dismissed on motion.

THIs was a writ of error sued out under the twenty-fifth
section of the Judiciary Act, and directed to the Supreme Court
of Alabama.
In May, 1841, the following promissory note was executed: " $ 3;817.50.
"Two hundred and fifteen days after date. we jointly and
severally' promige to pay to B. Gayle, cashier, or -order, three
thousand eight hundred and seventeen - dollars, negotiable
and payable at the Branch of the Bank of the State of Alabama,
at Mobile, for vahie received, this 31st day of May, 1841.
It WILLIAM CItAWFORD,

DAVID FILPS,.
R. .G. GoazoN."

On the 4th of December, 1841, the legislature passed an act,
from which the following is an extract : -"
All notes, bills.

