THE DECISIONS
ON TH3

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

JANUARY

TERM,

1849.

MARTIN LUTHER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. LUTHER

M.

BORDEN ETAL. '

DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

RACHEL LUTHER, COMPLAINANT, v. LUTHER M. BORDEN ET AL., DE.
FENDANTS.

At tim period of the American Revolution, Rhode Island did not, like the othei

States, adopt a new constitution, but continued the form of government estab.
lished by the charter of Charles the. Second, making only such alterations, bl
acts of the Legislature, as were necessary to adapt it to their condition and rightE
as an independent State.
But no mode of proceeding was pointed outb, which amendments might be made.
In 1841 a portion of the people held meetings and formed associations, which resulted
in the election of a convention to form a new co'dstitutinn. to be submitted to the
people for their adoption or rejection.
This convention framed a constitution, directed a vote to be taken upon it, declared
-afierwards that it had been adopted and ratified by a majority of the people of the
State, and was the paramount law and constitution of Rhode Island.
Under it, elections were held for Governor, members of the Legislature, and other
officers, who-assembled together in May, 1842, and proceeded to organize the new
government.
But the charter government did not acquiesce in these proceedings. On the contrary, it passed stringent laws, and finally passed an Act declaring the State under
martial law.
In Miy, 1843, a new constitution, which had been framed by a convention called
together by the charter government, went into operation, and has continued ever
since.

The question which of the two opposing governments was the legitimate on; vi.
the charter government, or the government established by the voluntary con.ention, has not heretofore been regarded as a judicial one in any of the State
courts. The political department has always determined whether aproposedconstitation or amendment was ratified or not by the people of the State, and the
judicil power has followed its decision.
Te courts of Rhode Island have decided in favor of the validity of the charter
government, and the courts of the United States adopt and follow the decisions of
the State courts in questions which concern merely the constitution and laws of
the State.
*Mr. Justice Catron, 31r. Justice Daniel, and Mr. Justice McIinley were absent
on account of ill health *hen this case was argued.
VOL. Vii.

1

-

SUPREME- COURT.
Luther v. Borden- et a].
The question whether or not a majority of those persons entitled to suffrage voted
to adqpta constitution cannot be settled in a judicial proceeding.
The Constitution of the United States has treated the subject as political in its
nature, and placed the power df recognizing a State government in the hands of
Congress. Under the existing legislation of Cbngress, the exercise of this power
by courts would be entirely inconsistentwith that legislation.
The President of the United States is vested with certain power by an act of
Congress, and in this case he exercised that power by recognizing the charter
government.
Although no State -could establish a permanent military government, yet it may
use its military power to put.down .an armed insurrection, too strong to be controlled by the civil authority. The State must determine fbr itself what degree
offorce the crisis demands.After martial law. was declared, an officer might lawfully arrest any one who he
had reasonable grounds to believe was engaged in the insurrection, or order a
house to be forcibly entered. 'But no more force can be used than is necessary to
accomplish the object; and if the power is exercised for the purposes of oppression,
or any injurywilfully done-to person or property, the party by whom, or by whose
order, it is committed would undoubtedly be answerable.
THESE two cases came up from the Circuit .Court of the

United States for the District of Rhode Island, the former by a
writ of error* and the latter by a certificate of division in opinion.
As the allegations, evidence, and arguments were the same in
both, it is necessary to state those only of the first. They
were argued at the preceding term of the court, and held under
advisement until the present.
Martin Luther, a citizen of the State of Massachusetts,
brought an action of trespass. quare clausum fregit against the
defendants, citizens of the State of Rhode Island, for-breaking
and entering the house of Luther, on the 29th of June, 1842.
The action was brought 'inOctober, 1842.
At November term, 1842, the defendants filed four pleas in
justification, aVerring, in. substance,
An insurrection of men in arms to overthrow the government
of the State by military force
That, in defence 'of the government, martial law was declared
by the General Assembly of the State.
That the plaintiff was aiding and abetting said insurrection.
That at the time the trespasses were committed, the State was
under martial law,. and the defendants were enrolled in the
fourth company of infantry in the town of Warren, under the
command of I. T. Child.
That the defendants were ordered to arrest the plaintiff, and,
if necessary, to break and enter his dwelling-house.
That it was necessary, and they did break and enter, &c.,
doing -as little injury as possible, &c., and searchpd said house,
&c.
To these pleas there was a general replication and isue.
The cause came on for trial at November term, 1843, when
the jury, under the rulings of the court, found a verdict for

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

3

Luther v. Borden et al.

the defendants. During the trial, the counsel for the plaintiff
took a bill of exceptions, which was as follows.
RHODE ISLAND DISTRICT, Sc.:
MARTiN LUnxHER
V.

LUTHER M. BORDEN ET ALS.

Circuit Court of the United States, November Term, 1843.
Be it remembered, that, upon the trial of the aforesaid issue
before said jury, duly impanelled to try the same, The defendants offered in evidence, in support of their first,
second, and third pleas: 1st. The charter of the Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, and the. acceptance of the same at a very
great meeting aud assembly of all the freemen of the then
Colony of- Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, legally
called and held at Newport, in the said Colony, on the 24th
day of November, A. D. 1663.
That on the 25th day of November, A. D. 1663, the former
lawful colonial government of the said Colony dissolved itself,
and the said charter became and was henceforth the fundamental law or rule of government for said Colony. That, umder
and by virtue of -said-charter, and. the acceptance thereof as
aforesaid, the government of said Colony was duly organized,
and by due elections was continued, -and exercised all the
powers 'of government granted by it, and was recognized by
the inhabitants of said Colony, and by the king of Great Britain
and his successors, as the true and lawful government of said
Colony, until the 4th day of July; A. D. 1776.
That the General Assembly of said Colony, from time to time,
elected and appointed delegates to the General Congress of the
delegates of the several Colonies of North America, held in the
years 1774, 1775, and 1776, and to the Congres§ of the United
States of America, in the years 1776 and 1778. And'that said
delegates of said Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations were received by, and acted with, the delegates from
the other Colonies and States of America, in Congress assembled, as the delegates representing the said Colony and State
of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations; and that on the
4th day of July; A. D. 1776, said delegates of the said Colony
of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations united with the
delegates of the other Colonies as representatives of the United
States of Anerica, and as such assented to and signed in behalf
of said Colony the Declaration of the Independence of theLUnited
States of America.

4

SUPREME

COURT.

TLuther v. Borden-et al.

That afterward, to wit, at the July session, of the General
Assembly .of said, State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, said General Assembly, by resolution thereof, did approve
the said Declaration of Independence made by the Congress.
aforesaid, and did most solemnly engage that they would support the said General Congress in. the said, Declaration with
their lives and f6rtunds.
'That afterwards, to wit, on the 9th day of July, 1778, the
said State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, by her
delegates duly authorized thereuito, became a party to the
articles of confederation and. perpetual union between the
States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay, Rhode Island
and Providence Plantations, Connecticut,* New York, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina,.
South Carolina, and Georgia, and ratified and confirmed the
same; and, as one of the United States of America under said
articles of confederation and perpetual union, was received, recognized, and acted with and by the othier States of the said
c6nfederation, and by the United States of America in Congress
assembled, durihg the continuation of'said confederacy.
That after the dissolution of said confederacy, to wit, on the
29th day of May, A. D. 1790, said State of Rhode Island and
Providence Plantations,- in convention duly called, elected,
and assembled under an act of the General Assembly of
said State, ratified the. Constitution of the United States, and
under the same became, and ever since has -been, one of the
gaid United States, and as such, under the Constitution and
laws of the United States, and of the said State of Rhode Island
and Providence Plantations, hath ever elected and sent, and
doth now send, Senators and Representatives to the Congress
of the United States, who have been since, and now are, received and recognized as such by the said United States, and
in all rbspects have ever been received-and recognized by the'
several States, and by the United States, as one of the said
United States under the said Constitution thereof.
That from the said 4th of July, A.-D. 1776, to the present
time, the said charter and. the said government of the said
State of.Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, organized.
under the same, hath ever been acted under and iecognized by
the people of said State, and hath been recognizedby each of the
said United States, and hath been recognized and.guaranteed-by
the said United States as the true, lawful, and republican constitution and form of government of said State; and that the
said charter continued to regulate the exercise and distribution
of the powers of said government of said State, and, except so
far as it hath been modified by the Revolution and the new

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

5

Luther v. Borden et al.

order of things consequent thereon, continued to be the fundamental law of said State, until the adoption of the present constitution of said State, and the organization of the government
under the same.
That all the officers of the said government of said Colony,
ana State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, organized under said charter as aforesaid, were elected in conformity
with said charter and with the existing Jaws, from, the first
organizatidn of the governnent under the said charter until
the organization of the government under the present constitution of said State, and were and continued to be in the full
exercise of all the powers of said government, and in the full
possession of all the State-houses, court-houses; public records,
prisons, jails, and all other public property, until the regular
and legal dissolution of said government by the adoption of the
present constitution, and the organization of the present government under the same.
2d. That the General Assembly of said State, at their January
session,'in the year of our Lord he thousand eight hundred and
forty-one, passed resolutions in the words following, to wit: "Resolved by this General Assembly, (the Senate.concurring
.with the House of Representatives therein,) That the freemen
of the several towns in this State, and of the city of Prdvidence, qualified to vote for general officers be, and they are
hereby, requested to choose, at their semiannual town or ward
meetings, in August next, so many delegates, and. of the like
qualifications, as they .are now respectively entitled to choose.
representatives to the General Assembly, to attend a convention,
to be holden at Providence, on the first Monday of November, in
the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty-one,
to frame a new constitution for this State, either in whole or in
part., with full powers for this purpose; and if only for a constitution in part, that said convention have under their especial
consideration the expediency of equalizing the representation of
the towns in the House of Representatives.
"Resolved, That a majority of the whole number of delegates
which all the towns are entitled to choose shall constitute a
quorum; who may elect a president and secretary; judge of
the qualifications of the members, and establish such rules and
proceedings as they may think necessary; and any town or
city which may omit to elect its delegates at the said meetings'
in August may elect them at any time previous to the meeting
of said convention.
"Resolved, That the constitution or amendments agreed upon
by said convention shall be submitted to thefreemen in open
town or ward meetings, to be holden at such time as may be
1*

6

-SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et a.

named by said convention. That said constitution or amendments shall be certified by the president and secretary, and xeturned to the Secretary ofState ; who shall forthwith distribute
to the several town and city clerks, in due proporition, one thousand printed copies thereof, and also fifteen thousand ballots;.
on one side of which ghall be"printed "(Amendments or Constitution) adopted by the convention holden at Providence, on the
first Monday -of November lpst"; and on the other side, the word
aprove on the one half of the said ballots, and the word reject
on the other half.
"Resolved, That at the'town or ward meetings, to be holden
as aforesaid, every freeman voting shall have his name written
on the back of his ballot; and the ballots shall be sealed up in
open town or ward- meeting by the, clerks, and, with lists of
the names of the voters, shall be returned to the General Assembly at its next succeeding session; and the said General
Assembly shall cause said ballots to be examined and counted,
and said amendments or constitution being approved of by a
majority of the freemen voting, shall go into operation and
effect at such time as may be appointed by. said convention.
" Resolved, That a sufin not exceeding three-hundred dollars
be appropriated for defraying the expenses of said convention,
to be paid according to the order of said convention, certified '
by its president."
That at their May session, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight, hundred and forty-one, the said General Assembly
passed resolutions in the words following, to wit :"R eolved by this General Assembly, (the Senate coIcurring'
with the House of Representatives therein,) That the delegates from the several towns to the State convention to be,
holden in November next, for the pupose of framing a State
constitution, be elected on the basis of population, in the following manner, to wit :-Every town of not more than
eight hundred and fifty inhabitants may elect one delegate; of
more than eight hundrad and fifty, and not more than three
thousand inhabitants, two delegates; of more than three thousand, and not more than six thousand inhabitants, three dele.gates; of more than six thousand, and not more than ten
thousand inhabitants, four delegates; of more than ten -thousand, and not more than.fifteen thousand inhabitants, five delegates; of more than fifteen thousand inhabitants, six delegates.
"Resolved, That the delegates attending said convention be
entitled to receive from the general treasury the same pay .as
members of the General Assembly.
"Resolved; That so much of the repolutions to which these
are in amendment as is inconsistent herewith be repealed."

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

Luther t,.Borden et al.

And that at their January-session, in the year of our Lord
one thousand eight hundred and forty-two, the said General
Assembly passed resolutions in the words following, to wit: Whereas a portion of the people of this State, without the
forms of law, have undertaien to form and establish a constitution of government for the people of this State, -and have
declared such constitution to be the supreme law, and have
communicated such constitution to the General Assembly; and
-whereas many of the good people of this State are in danger of
being misled by these informal proceedings,'theiefore, "It is hereby resolved by this General Assembly, That all
acts done by the persons aforesaid, for the purpose of imposing
upon this State a constitution, are an assumption of the powers
of government in violation of the rights of the existing government, and of the rights of the people atlarge.
"Resolved, That the. convention called and organized in
pursuance of an act of this General Assembly, for the purpose
of forming a contitution to be submitted to the people of this
State, is the only body which we can recognize as authorized
to form such a constitution, and to this constitution the whole
people have a right to look, and we are assured they will not
look in vain, for such -a form of government as will promote
their peace, security, and happiness.
"Resolved, That this General Assembly will maintain its
own proper authority, and protect and defend the- legal and
constitutional rights of the people."
And that at their January session, in the year of our Lord
one .thousand eight hundred and forty-two, the said General
Assembly passed an act in the words following, to wit :
"An act in amendment of an act, entitled 'an act revising
the act entitled an act regulating the manner of admitting
freemen, and directing the manner of electing officers in this
State.
" Whereas the good people of this State have elected delegates to a convention to form. a constitution, which constitution, if ratified by the people, will become the supreme law of
the State ; therefore, "Be it enacted by the General Assembly as follows: -All
persons now qualified to vote, and those who may be qualified
to vote under the existing laws previous to the time of such
their voting, and all persons whb shall be qualified to vote under
the provisions of such constitution, shall be qualified to vote
upon the question of the adoption of the said constitution.
"That under and by virtue of the resolutions and acts last
aforesaid, a written constitution of government for the said
State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations was framed
-

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

by a convention legally called, elected, and assembled, and
that said proposed constitution was, in pursuance of the said
resolutions and acts, on the 21st, 22d, and 23d days of March,
A. D. 1842, submitted for adoption or rejection to all persons
qualified by the existing laws of said State to vote, and also to
all persons who, under the provisions of said constitution, were
qualified to vote, in the legaltown and ward meetings of saidState and of the city of Providence, legally called and assembled, and was by a majority of the persons so qualified by law
to vote thereon, and actually voting thereon, rejected. That
the said Martin Luther and his confederates, in causing and
'fomenting the said rebellion, voted against the adoption of said
constitution; a copy of which is hereunto annexed, marked A.
3d. The defendants further offered all the acts, resolutions,
and proceedings of the said General Assembly of the said Colony
and State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, from the
organization of the said government under the said chartery
tintil the organization of the present government under the present constitution.
4th. The defendants offered7evidence, that on the 24th day
of June, A. D. 1842, and for a long time before, and from that
time continually, until after the time when.the-said trespasses
are alleged in the plaintiff's said declaration to have ben committed, large numbers of men, among whom was the said
Martin Luther, were assembled'in arms in different parts of the
said State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, for the
purpose and with the intent- of overthrowing the government
of said- State, andf destroying the same by military.force; and
with such illegal, malicious, and traitorous intent and purpose,
at and during the times aforesaid, did, in diferent parts of said
State, make and levy war upon said State, and upon the govemment and citizens thereof, and did attempt and enterprize the
hurt, detriment, annoyance, and destruction of the inhabitants
of said State, and the overthrow of the government thereof.
5th. That in order to protect and preserve said State, and the
government and the citizens thereof, from the destruction threatened by said rebellion and military force, the General Assembly
of said State; on the 25th day of June, A. D. 1842, enacted
.and declared martial law in the words following: "An Act'establishingMartial Law in this State.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly as follows :-Section1. The State of Rhode Island and Providence Planta'tions is'hereby placed under martial law, and the same is declared to be 'infull force; until otherwise ordered by the
General Assembly, or suspended by proclamation of his Excellency the Governor of the State."

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

9

Luther v. Borden et al.

And thereupon, on the 26th day of June, A. D. 1842,
Samuel Ward King, governor, captain-general, and commanderin-chief in and over said State of Rhode Island and Providence
Plantations, issued his proclamnation in the words and figures
following :-

"By his Excellency, Samuel Ward King, Governor, CaptainGeneral, and Commander-in-chief of the State of Rhode
Island and Providence Plantations.
"A Proclamation.
"Whereas the General Assembly of the said State of Rhode
Island nd Providence Plantations did, on the 25th day of June,
A. D. 1842, pass the act following, to wit: 'An

Act establishingMartial Law in this State.

"'Be it enacted by the General Assembly as follows:Section 1. Thp State of Rhode Island and ProVidence Plantalions is hereby placed under martial law, and the same is de,6lared to be in full force until otherwise ordered by the General
Assembly,' or suspended by proclamation of his Excellency the
Governor of the State.'
"I do, therefore, issue this my proclamation, to make known
the same unto the good people of this State, and all others, that
they may govern themselves: accordingly. And I do warn all
persons against any intercourse or connection with the traitor
Thomas Wilson Dork, or his deluded adherents, now assembled
in arms against the laws and authorities of this State, and admonish and command the said Thomas Wilson Dorr and his
adherents immediately, to throw down their arms and disperse,
that peace and order may be restored to our suffering community, and as they will answer the contrary at their peril.
Further, I exhort the good people qf this State to aid and support by example, and by arms, the civil and mi'litary authorities
thereof, in pursuing and bringing to condign punishment all
engaged in said unholy and criminal, enterprise against the
peace and dignity of the State.
"In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of said State
to be affixed to these presents, and have signed the
same with my hand. Given at the city of Providence,
[L. s.] on the 26th day of June, A. D. 1842, and of the Independence of the United States of America the sixtysixth.
"SAMUEJL

"By his Excellency's command.
"HENRY BowEN, Secretary."

WARD KING.

10

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

6th. That at the time when the trespasses mentioned and set
forth in the plaintiff's said declaration are alleged to have been
committed, and at divers other times before that time, the
plaintiff was aiding and abetting the aforesaid traitorous, malicious, and unlawful purposes and. designs of overthrowing the
government of -said State by rebellion and military force, and
in making war upon said State, and upon the government and
citizens thereof.
7th. That at the time when the pretended trespasses mel
.tioned in the plaintiff's declaration are alleged to have been
ommitted,-the said State was under martial law as aforesaid,
and the said defendants were enrolled in the company of infantry in the said town of Warren, in the fourth regiment of
the militia of said State, and were under the command of John
T. Child.
8th. That said John T. Child, on the 25th day of June, A. D.
1842, was duly commissioned and sworn as a quartermaster of
the fourth regiment of the first brigade of militia'of Rhode Island,
and continued to exercise such command until after the time
when the tiespasses mentioned in the plaintiff's declaration are
alleged to have been committed; that on the 27th day of
June, A. D. 1842, the said John T. Child received written
orders from Thomas G. Turner, Esq., lieutenant-colonel commanding said regimeht, and duly commissioned and sworn, "to
continue tor keep a strong armed guard, night and day, in the
said Warren, and to arrest every person, either citizens of Warren or otherwise, whose movements were in the least degree
suspicious, or who expressed the least willingness to assist the
insurgents who were in arms against the law and authorities of
the State."
9th. That these defenidants were ordered, by the said John T.
Child, their commander as aforesaid, to arrest and take the said
Martin Luther, and, if necessary for the purpose of arrestingand taking the said Luther, these defendants were ordered to
break and enter the dwelling-house of said Luther.
10th. That these defendants, in compliance with said orders,
and for the purpose of arresting and taking said Luther, proceeded to his house and knocked at the door, and, not being
able to obtain admission therein, forced the latch of the door
of said.house, and entered the same for the purpose of making
said arrest, doing as little damage as possible.
11th. That at the time these defpndants were ordered to arrest
the said Martin Luther, as before stated, the town of'Warren
was
in danger of an attack from the said Martin Luther and his
'confederates,
and the inhabitants of said town were- in great
alarm on account thereof.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

11

Luther v. Borden et al.

And the counsel for the plaintiff, to maintain and prove the
issue on his part, offered in evidence the following matters,
facts, and things, inmanner following, to wit 1st. The plaintiff offered in evidence the proc6edings and
resolutions of a convention of the State of Rhode Island and
Providence Plantations, passed 29th May, 1790, a copy whereof
is hereunto annexed, marked A.
2d. The plaintiff offered in evidence the. report of a committee of the House of Representatives of the State of Rhode
Island, &c., made in Juno, 1829, upon certain memorials to
them directed therein, praying for an extension of the right of
suffrage in said State, a copy of which is hereunto annexed,
marked B.
3d. The plaintiff. offered in evidence resolutions passed by
the General Assembly of said State, at their session, January,
1841,'a copy of which is hereunto annexed, marked C.
4th. The plaintiff then offered in evidence the memorial addressed to said Assembly, at said session, by Elisha Dillingham
and others, a copy of which is hereunto annexed, marked D.
5th. The plaintiff offered evidence to prove that, in the last
part of the year 1840, and in the year 1841, associations were
formed in many, if not in all, the towns in the State, called
"Suffrage Associations," the object of which was to diffuse information among the people upon, the question of forming a
written republican constitution, and of extending the right of
suifrage. To prove this, he offered-the officers and members of
said associations, also the declaration of principles of said associations, passed February 7, 1841, and the proceedings of a
meeting thereof on the 13th day of April, 1841; and also offered!
witnesses to prove that a portion of the people of this State.
assembled at Providence, on the 17th day of April, 1841, under
a call from the Rhode Island Suffrage Association, to take into
consideration certain matters connected with the existing state
of suffrage in said State, and to prove the proceedings of said
meeting; and this he offerad to prove by the testimony of the
chairman of said meeting, and the clerk of the same, and of
other persons-present thereat; all of which proceedings and
declaration, resolutions, &c., are hereunto annexed marked E.
6th. The plaintiff offered to prove that, on the 5th day of.
May, A. D. 1841; a mass convention of the male inhabitants.
of this State, consisting of four thousand and upwards, of theage of twenty-one years and upwards, met at Newport, in said
State, in pursuance of notice for that purpose; whereat, among
other things, it was resolved by said convention as follows:
(See copy of said resolutions hereunto annexed, marked F.)
7th. The plaintiff offered to prove that the said mass con-

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et aL

vention at Newport aforesaid adjourned their meeting from
said 5th day of May to the 5th day of July, 1841, to Providence, in said State, at which place and time last mentioned
said convention reassembled, consisting of six thousand persons
and upwards, of the age of twenty-one years and upwards, the
same being the free male inhabitants of said State, when and
where, among other things, it was resolved by said convention
as follows: (See copy of said resolutions hereunto annexed,
and marked G.)
8th. The plaintiff offered in evidence certain resolutions of
the General Assembly of said State, passed at their May session,
1841; also a certain bill (or act) presented by a member of said
Assembly, at the same session, and the proceedings of said
Assembly thereupon, copies of which are hereunto annexed,
marked H a, H b.
9th. The plaintiff offered in evidence the minority report
from the Committee on the Judiciary upon the bill or.act mentioned in the eighth offer, made to said General Assembly at
their June session, A. D. 1841, and the action of said General
Assembly theieupon, copies of whicl are hereunto annexed,
marked I a, I b.
10th. The plaintiff offered to prove that the said State committee, by virtue of the authority in them vested by the said
mass convention, notified the inhabitants of the several towns,
and of the city of Providence, in this State, to assemble together
and appoint delegates to a convention, for tile purpose of framing a constitution for this State aforesaid, and that every
American male citizen, twenty-one years of age and upwards,
who had resided in this State as his home one year preceding
the election of delegates, should have the right to vote for delegates to said, convention, to draft a constitution to be laid
before the people of said State; and that every thousand inhabitants in, the towns in said State should be entitled to one
delegate, and each ward in the city of Providence to three delegates, as appears by the following request duly published and
proclaimed; also an address from said committee to the people
of the State. See the copies of said request and address, hereunto annexed, and marked J a, J b.
11th. The plaintiff offered to prove that the said notice, request, or call was duly published and promulgated in public
newspapers printed and published -insaid State, and by handbills which were stuck up in the public houses, and at various
other places -of public resort, in all the. towns, and in every
ward in the city of Providence, in said State.
12th. The plaintiff offered tW prove, that,.at the adjourned
mass convention aforementioned as held at Providence, in said

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

13

Luther v. Borden et al.

State, on the 5th day of July, A. D. 1841, the people of the.
State then present did by vote duly taken enlarge said State
committee by the addition of the following-named persons, all
citizens of this State, to wit:Providence County, Henry L. Webster, Philip B. Stiness,
Metcalf Marsh.
Newport County, Silas Sissons.
Bristol County, Abijah Luce.
Kent County, John B. Sheldon.
Washington County, Wager Weeden, Charles Allen.
13th. The plaintiff offered to prove that, at the meeting of the
said State committee, on the 20th day of July, 1841, at Providence aforesaid, when the said notice, request, or call was
ordered, the following members of said committee were present,
and approved of the atoresaid call, and of all the ,proceedings.
then had, to wit: Samuel H. Wales, Henry L. Webster,.
Benjamin Arnold, Jr., 'Welcome B. Sayles, Metcalf Marsh,
Philip B. Stiness, Dutee J. Pearce, Silas Sissons, Benjamin M.
Bosworth, Abijah Luce, Sylvester Himes.
14th. The plaintiff then offered to prove that, in the month
of August, 1841, citizens of this State, qualified as aforesaid, did
meet in their several towns, and in the several wards in the said
city of Providence, and made choice of d~legates, in conformity with said notice, to meet in convention to form a draft of
a constitution to be laid before the people of this State; and he
offered the chairman presiding at said meetings, and the persons
acting as clerks of the same, the votes or ballots then and there
cast by the persons voting thereon, and of the persons then
and there voting, to prove the aforesaid facts, and to prove the
number of citizens so voting.
15th. The plaintiff offered to prove that the said delegates did'
meet in convention, in said city of Providence, in the mofith
of October, 1841, and drafted a constitution, and submitted it
to the people of said State for their examination, and then adjourned, to meet in said city of Providence, in the month of.
November, A. D. 1841; and he offered to prove this by the production of the original minutes, or records, of the proceedings
of said convention, verified by the oaths of the presidents and
secretaries thereof, and of divers persons attending the same, as
members thereof, or delegates thereto.
16th. The plaintiff offered to prove that, in pursuance of said
adjournment, the said delegates did again rheet in convention,
in said Providence, in said month of November, and then completed the draft of the following constitution, (a copy of which
is hereunto annexed marked K,) and submitted the same to the
people of s-id State for their adoption or rejection, recommend2
VOL. VII.

14

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

ing them to express their will on the subject, at meetings- to be
duly presided over by riioderators and clerks, and by writing their
names upon their tickets, and to be holden in their several towns,
and in the several wards of the city of Providence, on Monday,
the 27th day of December, and on the two next successive days;
and that any person entitled to vote, who, from sickness or
other cause, might be unable to attend and vote in the town or
ward meeting on the days aforesaid, might write his name on
a ticket, and obtain the signature upon the back of the same,
as a witness thereto, of a person who had given in his vote,
which tickets were in the following foim, to wit: - "I am an
American citizen, of the age of twenty-one years, and have my
permanent residence, or home, in this State; 1 am (or not)
qualified to vote-nnder the existing laws of this State. I vote
(for or against) the constitution formed by the convention
of the people assembled in Providence, and which was proposed
to the people by said con'iention on the 18th day of November, A. D. 1841"; which votes the moderator or clerk of any
town or ward meetings should receive on either of the three
days succeeding the three days before named; and which he
offered to prove by the production of said original minutes and
records as aforesaid, verified as aforesaid, and by the testimony
of said persons aforesaid, and by the 14th article of said constitution
- 17th. The plaiitiff offered to prove that meetings were held
in the several towns, and wardsof the city of Providence aforesaid, and on the-days aforesaid, for the purposes aforesaid, in
pursuance of the requirements of said constitution; and the
said moderators and clerks did receive, on said three successive
days, such votes of persons qualified as aforesaid, and then carefully kept and made registers of all the., persons voting, which,
together with the tickets given in by the voters, were sealed
up and returned by said moderators ana clerks, with certificates
signed and sealed by them, to the secretary of-said convention,
to be counted and declared at their adjourned'meeting, on the
12th day of January, A. D. 1842; all of which he offered to
prove by the testimony of the several moderators presiding at
said meeting, and of the clerks of the same, and of the secretaries of said convention, and by the production of the original
votes or ballots cast or polled by the persons then and there
voting, the original registers of. all said persons so voting, and
the said certificates, signed and sealed as aforesaid, verified by
the oaths of said moderators and clerks.
18th. The plaintiff offered to prove that the said convention
of delegatesdid meet in said Providence, on the said 12th day'
of January, 1842, and did then'and there count the said votes;

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

15

Luther v. Borden et aL

and the said convention thereafterwards, on the said 13th day
of said January, did pass the preamble and resolutions following, to wit: -

"Whereas, by the return of the votes upon the constitution
proposed to the citizens of this State by this convention, the
18th day of November last, it satisfactorily appears that the
citizens of this State, in their original sovereign capacity, have
ratified and adopted said constitution by a large majority; and
the will of the people, thus dcisively made known, ought to
be implicitly obeyed and faithfully executed.
"We do therefore resolve and declare that said constitution
rightfully ought to be, and is, the paramount law and constitu-.
tion of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
"And we further resolve and declare, for ourselves, and in
behalf of the people whom we represent, that we will establish said constitution, and sustain and defend the same by all
necessary means.
"Resolved, That the officers of this convention make proclamation of the return of the votes upon the constitution, and
that the same has been adopted and become the constitution of
this State; and that they cause said proclamation to be pubtished in the newspapers of the same.
"Resolved, That a certified copy of the report of the committee appointed to count the votes upon the constitution, and
of these resolutions, and of the constitution, be sent to his Excellency the Goternor, with a request that he would communicate the same to the two houses of the General Assembly." A
copy of -which resolutions and proceedings is annexed, marked
L c.
And he further offered to prove that the same was sent to
said Governor, and by him communicated to the said General Assembly, and by them laid on the table; and that, by a
subsequent resolution of the House of Representatives in said
General Assembly, the further consideration thereof was -indefinitely postponed. All these. matters he- offered to prove by
the production of the original minutes or records of the convention aforesaid, verified by the oaths of the president, vice-presidents, and secretaries thereof; by the report of the committee
appointed by said convention to count said votes, verified by
the certificate of the secretaries of said convention, and by the
oaths of the membb:s of said committee, and by the certificate
of Henry Bowen, Secretary of State under the then acting
government, and of Thomas A. Jenks, one of the clerks of the
then House of Re oresentatives.
And he further offered to
prove, that, at the s ime session of said Assembly, a member of
the House of Representatives submitted to that-body, for their

16

SUPREME 'COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

action, a resolution referring all the matters connected with the
formation and adoption of the aforesaid constitution .to a select
committee, with instructions to them to ascertain and report the
.number of votes cast, and the number of persons voting for the
same, with full power to send for persons and papers ; which
resolution was rejected by said House of Representatives, as
appears by copies of the records of the said H6use for said session, hereunto annexed, and marked L a, and the exhibit hereunto annexed, marked L b, and the testimony of witnesses.
I 19th. The plaintiff then offered to prove that the officers of
said convention did make the proclamation required by the said
resolution of the said convention; and he offered to prove this
by a-copy of said proclamation, certified by said officers, the
oaths of said officers, and the testimony- of 'other witnesses.
See form of proclamation annexed, marked X.
20th. The plaintiff then offered to prove that the said constitution was adopted by a large majority of the male people of
-this State, of, the age of twenty-one years and upwards, who
were qualified to vote under said constitution, and also adopted
by a maj6rity of the persons entitled to.vote for general officers
tinder the then existing laws of the said State, and according to
the provisions thereof; and that so much of the same, as relates
to the election of the officers named in the sixth section of the
fourteenth article 'f said constitution, on the Monday before
.the 3d Wednesday of April, A. D. 1842, to wit, on the 18th
day of said April, and all the other parts thereof on the first
Tuesday of May, ,1842, to wit, on the. 3d day of said May, and
then and there became, and was, the rightful -and legal constitution of said State, and paramount law of said State ; and this
he offered to'prove by, the production of the original votes or
ballots cast or polled by the persons voting. for or against the
adoption of said constitution, by the production of the original
registers of the persons so voting; verified by the oaths of the
several moderators and clerks of the meetings held for such'.
votings, by, the testimony of all the persons so voting, and by
the said constitution.
21st. The plaintiff produced a copy of said constitution, verifled by the certificates of Joseph Joslin, president of said convention of delegates elected'arTid assembled as aforesaid, and for
the purposes'aforesaid, and of Samuel H. Wales, one bf the'
vine-presidents, land of John S. Harris and William Smith,secretaries of the 'ame; and offered the said Joslin, Wales,
Harris, and Smith as witnesses to prove the truth of the matters set forth.in said certificates; which said copy, upon 'theproof aforesaid, he claimed to be a true and authenticated copy
of said constitution, ana'which cdnstitution he claimed to be,he
paramount law of the said State.'

JANUARY TERM, 1849;

17

Luther v. Borden et al.

22d. The plaintiff offered to prove, that, by virtue of, and
in conformity with, the provisions, of said constitution, so
adopted as aforesaid, the people of said State entitled to vote for
general officers, Senators and Representatives, to the.General
Assembly of said State, under said constitution, did meet, iA
legal town and ward meetings, on the third Wednesday of
April next preceding the first Tuesday. of May, 1842, to wit,
on the 18th day of April, 1842, and did elect duly the officers
required by said constitution for the formation of the government under said constitution; and that said meetings were con-ducted .and directed according to .the provisions of said constitution and the laws of said State; and this he offered to prove
by the evidence of the moderators and clerks of said meetings,
and the persons present at the same.
23d. The plaintiff offered in evidence that the said general
officers, to. wit, the Governor,. Lieutenant-Governor, Secretary
of State, Senators and Representatives, all constituting the
General Assembly of said State under said constitution, did assemble in said city of Providence on the first Tuesday of May,
A. D. 1842, to wit, on the 3d day of May, 1842, and did then
and there organize a government for the said State, in conformity with the provisions aiid requirements of said constitution, and did elect, appoint, and qualify officers to carry the
said constitution and'laws inio effect; and, to prove the same,
he offered exemplified copies of the acts and doings of said.
General Assembly, hereunto annexed, and marked Na, Nb, N c.
. 24th. The plaintiff offered in evidence a duly certified copy
of that part of the census of the United States for the year
1840, which applies to the District'and State of Rhode Island,,
&c., hereunto -annexed, aqid marked 0.
25th. The plaintiff'offered in evidence a certificate signed'
by Henry Bowen, Secretary of State of the then existing
government of the State of' Rhode -Island, &c.,;showing the
number of votes polled by the freemen in said State for ten
years then last past; a copy of which is hereunto annexed,
marked P. Also, under the same certificate, an act marked Q,
purporting to establish martial law.
26th.- And the plaintiff offered in evidence an authenticated
copy of an act of the General Assembly under the charter government, passed at their June session, A. D. 1842, entitled
"An Act to provide for calling a Convention of the People,"
&c., and an act in amendment thereto; which said c6py is
hereunto annexed, marked QOa' And also a copy of
from the records of the House of Representatives (under said
government), at their March session, A. 1). 1842, hereunto annexed, marked R.

18

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

Whereupon, the counsel for the plaintiff requested the court
to charge the jury, that, under the facts offered in evidence by
the plaintiffthe constitution and frame of government prepared,
adopted, and established in the manner and form set forth and
shown thereby was, and becam thereby, the supreme law of
the State of Rhode Island, and was in full force and effect, as
such, during the time set forth in the plaintiff's writ and declaration, when the trespass alleged therein was committad by the
defendants, as admitted in their pleas.
That a majority of the free white male citizens of Rhode
Island, of twenty-one years and upwards, in the exercise of the
sovereignty of the people, through the forms and in the manner set forth in said evidence, offered to be proved by the
plaintiff, and in the absence, under the then existing frame of
government of the said State of Rhode Island, of any provision
therein for amending, altering, reforming, changing, or aboliShing the said frame of government, had the right to reassume
the powers of government, and establish a written constitution
and frame of a republican form of government; and that having
so exercised such right as aforesaid, the preexisting charter
government, and the authority and the assumed laws under
which the defendants in their plea claim to have acted, became
tnull and void and of no effect, so far as they were repugnant
.to and conflicted with said constitution, and are no justification of the acts of the defendants in the premises
And -the court, pro forma, and upon the understandings of
'the parties to carry up the rulings and exceptins of the said
court -to the Supreme Court of the United States, refused to
give the said instructions, or to admit in evidence the facts
offered to be proved by the plaintiff, but did admit the testiamony offered to be proved by the defendants;, and did rule that
the government and laws, under which they assume in their
-plea to have acted, were in full force and effect as the frame of
:governm7ent and- laws of the State of Rhode Island, and did
'constitute a justification of the acts of the defendants, as set
-forth in their pleas.
To which'refusals of the court so to instruct the jury as
prayed for, as well as to the instructions so as aforesaid given
'by the court to the jury, the plaintiffi by his counsel, excepted,
.and prayed the exceptions to be allowed by the court. And
'after the said instrutions were so refused, and so *given as
aforesaid, the jury withdrew, and afterwards returned their verdict for the defendants.
And inasmuch as the said seveial matters of law, and the
said several matters of fact, so produced and given in evidence
,on the part of the said plaintiff and the said defendants, and by

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

19

Luther v. Borden 9t al.

their counsel insisted on and objected to in manner as aforesaid, do not appear by the record and verdict aforesaid; the
said counsel for the plaintiff did then and there propose the
aforesaid exceptions to the said refusals and opinions of said
court, and requested them to put the. seal of said court to this
bill of exceptions, containing the said several matters so produced and given in evidence for the party objecting as aforesaid.
And thereupon the judges of the aforesaid court, at the request of the counsel for the party objecting, did put their said
seal to this bill of exceptions, the same being found to be true,
pursuant to the'law in such cases provided, at the term of said
court and the trial aforesaid.
JosEPrH SToR. [.~ r.
The papers referred to in the above bill of exceptions, and
made a part of it, were so voluminous that it is impossible to
insert them. They constituted a volume of 150 pages.
The case was argued by Mr. Hallett and Mr. Clifford, for
the plaintiff in error, although the brief was signed by Mr. Turner, Mr. Hallett, Mr. R. J. Walker, and Mr. Clifford. On the
part of the defendant in error, it was argued by JlMr. Whipple
and Mr. Webster.
The brief filed on behalf of the plaintiff in error recited the
facts contained in the bill of exceptions and documents attached thereto, in chronological order, and concluded thus:Points.
And upon these facts'the plaintiff in error will maintain, that,
by the fundamental principles of government and of the sovereignty of the people acknowledged zind acted upon in the
United States, and the several States thereof, at least ever since
the Declaration of Independence in-1776, the constitution and
frame of government prepared, adopted, and established as
above set forth was, and became thereby, the supreme fundamental law of the State of Rhode Island, and was in full force
and effect, as such, when the trespass alleged in the plaintiff's
writ was committed by the defendants.
That this conclusion also follows from one of the foregoing
fundamental principles*of the American system -of government,
which is, that goveinment is instituted by the people,-and for
the benefit, protection, and security of the people, fiation, or
community. And that when any government shall be found
inadequate or contrary to these purposes, a -majority of the
community hath an indubitable, inalienable, and indefeasible

20

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

right to reform, alter, or abolish the same, in sucN manner as
shall be judged most conducive to the public weal.
But that, in the case at bar, the argument is sufficient, even
should it limit the right (which the plaintiff- disclaims) to a
majority 'of the voting people, such majority having, in fact
adopted and affinred the said constitution of Rhode Island,
To sustain this general view, the following proposition is
submitted as the theory of American government, upon which
ihe decision of this cause must depend.
The institution of American liberty is based upon the princi'ples, that the people are capable of self-governmeint, and have
an inalienable right at all times, and in any manner they please,
to establish and alter or change the constitution or particular
form 'under which that government shall be effected. This is
.especially true of the several States composing the Union, subject only to a limitation provided by the United Siates Constitution, that the State governments shall be republican.
In order to support'this proposition, we have to establish the
following
points :
1st. That
the sovereignty of the people is supreme, and nay
act in foring government without the assent of the existing
government.
2d. That the people are the sole judges of the form of government best calculated to promote, their safety and happiness.
3d. That, as the sovereign power, they have a right to adopt.
such form of government.
4th. That the right to*adopt necessarily includes the right
to abolish, to reform, and to alter any existing form of government, and to substitute in its stead any other that they may
judge better adapted to the purposes intended.
5th. That if such right exists at all, it exists in the States
under the Union,'not as a right of force, but a.right of sovereignty; and that those who oppose its peaceful exercise, and
not those who support it, are culpable.
6th. That the exercise of this right, which is a right original,
sovereign, and supreme, and not derived from any other human
authority, may be, and must be, effected in such way and manner as the people may for themselves determine.
7th. And more especially is this true in the case of the then
subsisting government of Rhode Island, which derived no
power from the charter or from the- people to alter or amend
the fiame of government, or to change the basis of representation, or even to proposd initiatory measures to that end.
.Uponthe foregoing hypothesis, then, the-following questions
arise:1st. Had the people e6f Rhode Island, in the month of De-

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

21

Luther v. Borden et al.

cember, 1841, without the sanction or assent of the Legislature, a right to adopt a State constitution for themselves, that
constitution establishing a government, republican in form,
within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States?
2d. Was the evidence of the adoption by the people of
Rhode Island of such a constitution, offered in the court below
by the plaintiff in this .cause, competent to prove the fact of
the adoption of such constitution?
3d. Upon the issuing of the proclamation of the convention,
by which it had been declared duly adopted, namely, on the
13th day of January, 1842, and the acts under it, did not that
-constitution become the supreme law of the State of Rhode
Island?
If these questions are answered in the negative, then the
theory of American free governments for the States is unavailable in practice.
If they be answered in the affirmative, then the consequences
which necessarily follow are, 1st. The charter government was, ipso facto, dissolved by
the adoption of the people's constitution, and by the organization and proceedings of th. new government under the same'.
.2d. Consequently, the act of March, 1842, "in relation, to
offences against the sovereign power of the State," and the act
"declaring martial law," passed June 24, 1842, were- both
void.
3d. The act of June, 1842, being void, affords no justification of the acts complained of in the plaintiffs declaration.
4th. Those acts, by the common law, amount to trespass,
the facts being admitted by the defendants.
It has already been said that _1r. Hallett alone argued the
case on behalf of the plaintiff in error, but the Reporter is muh
at a loss how to give even a skeleton of the argument, which
lasted for three .lays, and extenddd over a great variety of matter. The, following points were --discussed, and authorities
read.
lst.- What is a state?
Sydney on Government, pp. 15, 24, 349, 399; Locke on
Government, B. 2, ch. 8, % 95, 96, &c.; Burgh's Pol. Dis.,
Vol. I. pp. 3, 4, 6 ;.Vattel, L. N., p. 18; Virginia Convention,
1775; Wilson's Works, Vol. I. pp. 17, 304, 305; Federalist,
No. 39, p. 150; 2 Dall. Rep. 419, 463, 464; 3. Dall. Rep. 93, 94 ;.
1 Tuck. Bl. Com., App., p. 10 ; 1 Story's Com. on Const., p. 193,
§ 208; 1 Elliott's Deb., Gilp. ed., p. 65.
2d. Who are the people?
The early political writers indiscriminately use the words
community, society, state, nation, body of the community, and

22

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v.Borden et al.

great body of the petple, to express the same idea; and sometimes the words the governed are used in the same sense.
,Sydney on Goverhment, ch. 1, 2, 3; Locke on Government,
B. 2, ch. 8, § 95 et seq., -ch. 13, &c.; Burgh's Pol..Dis.,
Vol. I. ch. 2, 3, Vol. III. pp. 275-278; Vattel, L. N., p. 18;
Virginia Convention, 1775, pp. 16, 27, 42, 78; Declaration of
Amer. Ind., &c.; Trevett v. Weeden, Varnum's Argument in
1787; Wilson's Works, Vol. I. pp. 17, 20, 25, 417, 420, Vol. H.
p. 128, Vol. III. p. 291; Federalist, Nos. 1, 7, 14, 21, 22, 39,
40, 63 ; Virginia Convention, 1788, pp. 46, 57, 58, 64, 65, 6770, 79, 87, 95, ' &c. ; 2 Dali. Rep. 448, 449, 452, 454, 458,
470- 472; 3 Dall. Rep. 86, 92-94; 1 Tuck. Bi. Com., Pt. 1,
note at p. 89, App., pp. 4, 9, 87; 1 Cranch, Rep. 176; Helvidius,
p. 78 (by Mr. Madison)*; Rayner's Life of Jefferson, 377, 378;
-John Taylt, of Car., pp. 4, 412, 413; 519, 447; Rawle on the
Const., pp. 14- 17.
He cites Vattel, and uses the word pe(ple in the same sense
Vattel had used the -word state.
4 Wheaton's Reportl, p. 404; Story's Com. on the Const.,
Vol. I., B. 2, § 201 - '104, &c. ; Virginia Coiivention, 1829,
1830; Debates in Congress, (Michigan,) Reg. Deb., Vol. XII.
Pt. 1; Everett's Address, Jan. 9, 1836; Burke's Report..
All the Americhn political writers, &c., use the term peqpie
to express the entire numerical aggregate of the community,
whether state or national, in conitradistinction to the government or legislature.
Mr. Burke, in his Report, cited above, says, that "the
(political) people include allfree white male-yersons of the age
of twenty-one years, who are citizens df the state, are of sound
mind, and have not forfeited their right by som6 crime against
the society of which they are members."
3d; Where resides the ultimate power or sovereignty?
Sydney on Government, pp. 70, 349, 436; L6cke on Government, p. 316; Burgh's Pol. Dis., Vol. I. pp. 3, 4, 6, Vol. III.
pp. 277, 278, 299, 447 - Paine's Rights of Man, p. 185; Roger
Williams on Civil. Liberty; Virginia Convention of 1775; Dec.
of Amer. Ind.-; Wash. Farewell -Address; Trevett v. Weeden,
Varnum's Argument; Wilson's Works, Vol. 1. pp. 17, 21, 25,
415, 417, 418, 420, Vol. FI. p. 128, Vol. III. pp. 277, 278, 299,
447; Federalist, No. 22, p. 87, No. 39, p. 154, No. 40, p. 158,
No. 46, p. 188; Virginia Deb. of 1788, pp. 46, 65, 69, 79, 187,
230,-248, 313; Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. Rep. 448 (Iredell),
454, 457, 458 (Wilson), 470-472 (Jay), 304 (Patterson); Vanhome's Case, 3 Dall. Rep. 93 (Iredell); Doane's -Case, 3 Dall.
Rep. 93 (Iredell); 1 Tuck. B1. Com., App., pp. 4, 9, 10;
1 Cranch, Rep. 176; Rayner's Life of Jefferson, pp. 377, 378;

JANUARY TERM, 1849.
Luther v. Borden et al.

John Taylor, of Car., 1p. 412, 413, 489, 490; 4 Wheaton's
Rep., p. 404 (Marshall); Rawle on the Const., p. 17; 1 Story's
Com. on the Const., pp. 185, 186, 194, 195, 198-300-; Virginia Convention of 1829, 1830; Admission of Michigan
(Buchanan, Benton, Strange, Brown, Niles, King, Vanderpoel,
Toucey); Everett's Address, p. 4; 4 Elliott's Deb. 223; R. 1.
Declaration of Rights, Art. 2 and 3.
4th. The right of the people to establish government.
Sydney, Locke, Burgh (cited ante); Dec. of Amer. Ind.;
Wash. Farewell M. ; Virginia Convention of 1775; Roger Williams; Wilson; The Federalist; Virginia Deb. of 1778; 2 Dall.
Rep.; 1 Tuck. Bl. Com., App.; 1 Cranch; Rayner's Life of
Jefferson; John Taylor, of Caroline; 4 Wheaton's Reports;
Rawle on the Constitution; 1 Story's Com. on Const; Virginia Convention of 1829, 1830; Admission of Michigan; 2 ElIiott's Debates, 65 (Pat. Henry).
5th. The mode in which the right may be exercised.
The English authors already cited, although they al! assert
the right of the people to change their form of government as
they please for their own welfare, do not in any instance come
nearer to pointing out any specific mode of doing it -than by
saying that "they may meet when and where they please, and
dispose of the sovereignty, or limit the exercise of it." *
Sydney Ion Government, ch. 3, 4 31, p. 399.
In the Virginia Declaration of June" 12, 1776, Art. 3, they
say it may be done "in such manner as shall be judged most
conducive to the common weal."
Deplaration of American Independenice; Wilson's Works,
Vol. 1. pp. 17, 21, 418, 419 Vol. III. p. 293; Federalist, No.
2i, p. 78, No. 39, p. 154, No. 40, p. 158, No. 43, p. 175; Virgintia Convention of 1788, 2 Elliott's Deb., pp. 46, 65, 67;
2 Dall. Rep., p. 448 (Iredell), p. 464 (Wilson, Jay); I Tuck.
BI. Com., part 1, p. "89, note , Appendix, p . 92- 94; Rayner's
Life of Jefferson, pp. 377, '378; 4 Wheaton's Rep., p. 404
(Marshall); Rawle on the Const., p. 17; 1 Story's Com. on.
the Const., pp. 198, 300, 305, 306; Virginia Convention of
1829, 1830, p. 195.
The anti-republican doctrine that legislative action or sanction is necessary, as the mode of effecting a change of State
government, was broached for the fist time, under the United States government, by one Senator in the debate in Congress upon the admission of Michigan, December, 1846. See
* For the reason, see Madison, 2 Ell. Deb. 95, and Pinckney, 4 Ell. Dcb. 319,
that for our system "we cannot find one express example in the experience of the
world."

24

SUPREME COURT
Luther v.Borden et a].

Congressional Globe-and Appendix for 1836, 1837. It was opposed in the Senate by Mr. Buchanan, pp. 75, 147, Mr. Benton, pp. 78, 79, Mr. Strange, p.. 80, Mr. Brown, p. 81, Mr.
Niles, pp. 82, 83, Mr. King, p. 85 ; in the House by Mr. Vanderpoel, p. 131, Mr. Toucey, p. 185.
See Kampei v. Hawkins 1 Virginia Cases, 28, 29, 36, 37,
46, 47, 50, 51, 57, 58, 62, 64, 65, 67-74.
The instances of Tennessee, Michigan, Arkansas, and the
recent case of New York.
So far as the foregoing authorities are proof of any thing,
they establish the following positions, viz.: 1. That in the United States no definite, uniform mode
has ever been established 'for either instituting or changing a
form of State government.
2. That State legislatuies have no power or authority over
the subject, ahd can interfere only by usurpation, any further
than, like other -individuals, to recommend.
3. That the great body of the people may change their
form of government at any time, in any peaceful way, and by
any mode of operations that they for themselves determine to
be expedient.
.4.That even where a subsisting constitution points out
a particular mode of change, the people are not bound to follow the mode so pointed out; but may at their pleisure adopt
another.
5. That where no constitution exists, and no fundamental
law prescribes any mode of amendment, there they must adolit
a mode for themselves; and the mode they d6 adopt, "vhen
adopted, ratified, or acquiesced in by a majorityadf the people,
is binding upon all.
6th. When and by what. act does a State constitution become the paramount law?
A constitution, 'being the 'deliberate expression of the sovereign will of the people, takes effect from the time that will is
unequivocally expressed, in the manner provided in and by the
instrument itself.
The Constitution of the United States became the supreme
law upon its ratification by nine States, in the mode pointed
out by' the Constitution itself.
A similar rule of construfioni
has been adopted by the sev-;
eral States ever since.
Constitution of New York, p. 123 of Amer. Const.; Pennsylvania, p. .139; Delaware, p. 157," § 8; Kentucky, p. 241;
Louisiana, p. 300, § 7; Mississippi, p. '316, § 5; Michigan,
p. 392, § 9.
This constitution was adopted in convention, May 11, 1835,

JAYUARY

TERM, 1849.

25

Luther v. Borden et al.

-ratified by the people on the first Monday of October, - a
legislature elected in the same month, - held a session in November, -organized their judiciary, March, 1836, but were not
admitted into the Unioi until January 26, 1837. Validity.has
been given to her legislative acts passed inMarch 1836; therefore her constitution took effect as the supreme law, .upon its
ratification by the vote of the-people, on the first Monday of
October, 1835.
That this constitution was so considered, seb speech of Mr.
Morris, in Gales & Seaton's Cong. App.,: p. 68; Mr. Benton,
Mr. King, Mr. Vanderpoel, Mr. Toucey, Congressional Globe
and Appendix, 1836-7.
See also 1 Story's Com. on Const. Judge Nelson says
(1 Virginia Cases, p. 28), - "1It is confessedly the assent of the
people which gives validity to a constitution." Judge Henry,
p. 47; 9 Dane's Abr., p. 18, §-8, p. 26, §- 14, p. 22, '§ 11,,
when the United States Constitution became binding, p. 38,
28, p. 41, § 32, p. 44, § 35.
These authorities establish the p6sition, that constitutions
take effect and become binding fiom the time of their xatification by the vote of the people.; which, in the language of
Washington, is of itgelf "an explinit and authentic act of thewhole people."
7th.' The difference between a change of government ant a.
revolution.
2 Dall. Rep., 419, 464, 308; Wils6n's Works, Vol. I. pp.
383, 384) "A change of government has been viewed," &c. ;
Ibid.,- pp. 20, 21; Federalist, No. 21 (Hamilton), p. .78,
No. 39,. p. 154, No. 40, p. 158, No. 43, p. 175 (Madison);
Washington's Farewell Address; the- several State constitutions; Helvidius (Madison); Rawle. on- the Const.; 1 Story's
Cam. on the Const., p. 300; 1 Cranch, p. 176 (Marshall)';. 9.
Dane's'Abr., pp. 67, 68, .§ 56.
All these go to establish the constitutional right of changing
State forms of government. But-the right of revolution, in, the
common and European 'aceeptation of the teria, implying a
change by force, is nowhere sanctioned, so far as individual States are concerned, in the Constitution of the United States,
if it may be in that of any of the States. On the contrary,
as such revolution may involve insurrection and rebellion, as in
the cases of Massachusetts and Pennsylvania, the Constitutionof the United States, Art.'1, Sect. 8, §§ 14.and 18, makes ex-press provision to resist all such force with the whole military
force of the nation, if required, and the act of Congress bf February 28, 1795, for calling out the militia, was passed to carry
that provision into effect. So' that,. underthe American sysVOL. Vii.
3

21SUPRE-ME

COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

tern of government, a revolution and a mere peaceful change
of government are entirely distinct and different things, - one
being' provided for, the other, in effect, guarded against.
8th. Why a revolution to change the form of a State government can never he resorted to within the limits of the United
States Constitution, while a State remains in the Union.
The United States Constitution, Art. 4, Sect. 4, provides that
"the United States shall guarantee to every State in this
Union a republican form bf government, and shall protect each
*of them against invasion, and, on the application of the legislature or of the executive (when the legislature cannot be
convened) against domestic violence.'
Now, therefore, if revolution includes insurrection and rebellion (all of which are attempts to change a subsisting government 'by force), then they create that "domestic violence"
which is contemplated by the Constitution, and which, by the
act of 1795, they have by law provided for suppressing. How,
ihen, can revolution be resorted to, to change a State government ? With respect to the Constitution of the United States
the case may, I think, be different.
As to the decision of Stqte courts.
The rule applies to cases where the decision of a State court
has 'become a rule of property, and to the construction of local
statutes. Green v. Neal, 6 Pet. 291. It must be a fixed and
received construction. Shelbyv. Guy, 11 Wheat. 361; Gardner v. Collins, 2 Pet. 85.
But-the Rhode Island court, in the trial of Governor Dorr
for-treason, refused to "consider the people's constitution, or to
decide between that and the charter government. They held
(p. 38) that, "if a government had been set up under what is
called the people's constitution, and they had appointed judges
to give effect to their proceedings, and deriving authority from
such a source, such a court might have been addressed upon a
question like this; but we are not that court."'
The rule of State- decision does not apply to this case,
I., Because itinvolved no rule of property nor construction
of a statute enacted by' a- legislature acknowledge4 by both
parties, but related to the existence of a constitution and governmen't under it.
2. The court never decided which was the valid constitution, but refused to take. jurisdiction of that question or to hear
it at all.
S. The excitement of the times forms an exception.
4. It was made a political question, and not a judicial consmucion, as Ahr as it entered into the case.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

27

Luther v. Borden et a.

Mr. Whipple, for the defendant in error, said that the qufgtion to be decided was, whether a portion of the voters of. a
State, either the majority or minority, whenever they choose,
assembling in mass meeting without any law, or by voting
where there is no opportunity of challenging votes, may overthrow the constitution and set up a new one? But he would
leave the discussion of general principles to his associate, and
confine himself to the more minute facts of the case.
The court below ruled out the evidence- offered by the plaintiff in error. Were they right? They offered parol proof of
a new constitution, which was said to have been adopted by
an out-door proceeding, not recognized by any law. No parallel can be found to this case in any government, the freest
that ever existed, where it 'was attempted by such a summary proceeding to bind all those who had no prticipation
in it.
The charter and laws of Rhode Island were liberal and even
radical. It was eminently a government of the people. (Mr.
Whipple here went into a particular examination of the charter
and laws to illustrate this -point.) The usage has been always
for the' legislature to receive and act upon petitions for extension of the right of suffrage,- and this usage constitutes the law.
All changes must originate with the legislature.
The following proposition is true, viz. : - That no resistance
to law is to be countenanced, unless in case of oppression irremediable otherwise. Was this the case here.? Difficulties
had existed for thirty years in the way of framing a- constitiition, not consisting in an electoral vote, but in the basis of
representation. Towns had grown up and claimed a greater
share in representation in the legislature. But in conventions,
the allotment, of representatives was abcording to the scale of
representation then existing in the legislature, and they kept
things just as they were. Power remained in the game hands.
In January, 1841, -the legislature passed resolutions calling a
convention, organized upon the same basis upon which it stood
itself, and on the 7th of February 1841,'the Suffrage Association adopted a declaration of principles, one of which was as
follows, viz. ,1 Resolved, That whenever a majority of the citizens of this
State who are recognized as citizens of 'the United States
shall, by delegates in convention assembled, draft a constitution, and the same shall be accepted by their constituents, it
will be, to all intents and purposes, the law of the State."
Yet in the petition upon which the legislature acted it.is
said, - "Your petitioners would not take the liberty of suggesting to your honorable body any course which should be

28

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

pursued, but would leave the whole affair in your -hands, trusting to the. good sense and discretion of the General Assembly."
And yet, within a fortnight after the legislature had provided
for a convention, in conformity with this petition, these same
persons took the affair into- their own hands, and issued the
declaration cf principles above mentioned. Was there ever a
case where a legislature submitted alterations of a constitution
to be voted upon by any other' than qualified voters? And
yet Rhode Island did more than this. By the resolutions of
January, 1841; she permitted every male inhabitant to vote
upon the adoption of the constitution which might be prop6sed. (Mr. WMipple here read and commented' on many
documents, to show that the friends of the "people's constitution" only wanted to get ahead of the legislative convention,
and that of course there was no case of irremediable oppression.)
The " declaration of principles" above mentioned is founded
upon the idea, that the people can change the constitution
whenever they choose to do so, according to the resolution
above quoted ; and yet the thirteenth article of the Dorr constitution says that all propositions to amend the constitution
must originate in the legislature, and then. be ratified by the
people. Although our amended constitution gave to the petitioners all they asked, yet they voted against it when before
the people for adoption, and it was rejected by a small majority. (Mr. Whipple here commented on the irregularities in
voting upon the adoption of the Dorr constitution.)
It has been contended by the opposite counsel, that they had
a right, in the court below, to prove, by parol, 4he adoption of
their constitution; that every.male inhabitant over twenty-one
years of age has a natural right to 'vote; that their votes are
binding upon the government; that their government had a
right to take the military arsenal by force; and that this. court
has a right to decide that our government, now and always
represented in Congress, was not a legitimate government.
There is no such thing as a natural right to vote. There
are three classes of rights : natural, such as those recognized in
the Declaration of Independence; civil, such as the rights ofproperty; and political rights. Society has nothing to do with
natural rights except to protect them. Civil rights belong
equally to all. Every one has the right to acquire property,
and even in infants'the Iws of all governments preserve this.
But political rights are matters of practical utility. A right to
vote comes under this class. If it was a natural right, it would
appertain to every human being, females and minors. Even
the D6fr meui excluded all under. twenty-one, *and those who

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

29

Luther v. Borden et al.

had-not -resided within the State during a year. But if tfie
State has the power to affix any limit at all to the enjoyment
of this right, then the State must be the sole judge of the extent of such restriction. It can confine the right of voting to
freeholders, as well as adults or residents for a year. The
boasted power of majorities can only show itself under the law,
and not against the law, in any government of laws. It can
only act upon days and in places appointed by law.
But it is urged by the opposite counsel, that the great doctrine of the sovereignty of the peo ,and their consequent
power to alter the constitution whe
er they choose, is the
American doctrine, in opposition to tha f the Holy Alliance'of
Europe, which proclaims that all' reforms must emanate from
the throne. Let us examine this so-called American doctrine.
I say that a proposition to amend always comes from the legislative body. (Mr. BWhipple here examined, seriatim, the
Constitution of the United States, and the constitutions of each
State, to show that this principle ran throlgh the whole of
themO)
Look at the "subject in another aspect. In Congress each
House must agree, and even then the President may -veto a
bill. Sixteen millions of people in the large .States may be iM
favor of amending the Constitution, but their will may be
thwarted by four millions in the small States. What then becomes of this vaunted American doctrine of popular sovereiglity,
acting by-majorities? There is no such thing in the United
States as. a forcible revolution. The Constitution forbids it.
The framers of it gave to the federal government power to
put down a rebellion, because they saw that remedies for all
grievances were provided by law.
Mr. Webster, on the same side.
This is an unusual case. .During the years 1841 and 1842,
great agitation existed in Rhode Island. In June; 1842, it subsided: The legislature passed. laws for the punishment of offenders, and declared martial law. The grand jury indicted
Dorr. for treason. His trial came on in 1844, when he was
convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for life. Here is a
suit in which the opposite counsel say that a great mistake has
happened, in the, courts of Rhode Island; that Governor King
should have been indicted. They wish the governor and the
rebel to change places. If the court can take cognizance of
this question, which I do not think, it is not to be regretted
that it has been brought here.. It is said to involve the fundamental principles of American liberty. - This is true. It is
always proper to discuss these, if the appeal be made to.reason.
3*

30

SUPREME COURT.
Lutherv. Borden et aL

and not to the passions. There are certain principles of liberty
which have existed in other countries, such as life, the-.right of
property, trial by jury, &c. Our ancestors brought with them
all which they thought valuable in England, and left behind
them all which they thought were not. , Whilst colonies, they
sympathized with Englishmen in the'Revolution of 1688.
There was a general rejoicing. But in 1776 the American
people adopted principles more especially adapted to their condition. They can be traced through the Confederation and the
present Constitution, and'our principles of liberty have now become exclusively American. They are distinctly marked. We
changed the government where it required change; where we
found a good one, we left it. Conservatism is visible throughout. Let me state what I understand these principles to be.
The first is, that the people are the source of all political
power. Every one believes this. Where else is there any
power? There is no hereditary- legislature, no large property,
no throne, no primogeniture. Every body may .buy and sell.
There is an equality of rights. Any one who should look to
any other source of power than the people would be as much
out of his mind as Don Quixote, who imagined that he saw
things which did not exist. Let us all admit that the people
are sovereign. Jay said that in this country there were many
sovereigns and no subject. A portion of this sovereign power
has bebn delegated to government, which represents and speaks
the will of the people as far as they chose to delegate their
power. Congress have not all. The State governments have
not all. The Constitution of the United States does not speak
of the government. It says the United States. Nor does itspeak of State governments. It says the States; but it recognizes governments as existing. The people must have repre*sentatives. In England, the representative system originated,
not as a matter of right, but because it was called by the king.
'The people complained sometimes that, they had to send up
burgesses. At last there grew up a constitutional representation of the people. In our system, it grew up differently. It
was because the people could not act in mass, and the right to
choose a representative is every man's portion of 'sovereign
power. Suffrage is a delegation of political power to some individual. Hence the right must be, guarded and protected
against fzrce or fraud.' That is one principle. Another is,
that the qualification which entitles a man to vote must be
prescribed by previous laws, directing how it is to be exercised, and also that the results shall be certified to some central
power so that the vote may tell. We know no other principle.
If you go beyond these, you go wide of the American track.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

81

Luther v. Borden et al.

One principle is, that the people often limit their government;
another, that they often limit themselves. They secure themselves against sudden changes by mere majorities. The fifth
article of the Constitution of the United States is a clear proof
of this. The necessity of having a concurrence of two thirds
of both houses of Congress to propose amendments, and of
their subsequent ratification by three fourths of the States,
gives no countenance to the principles of the Dorr men, because the people have chosen so to limit themselves. All
qualifications which -persons are required to possess before they
can be elected are, -in fact, limitations upon the power of the
electors; and so are rules requiring- them to vote only at particular times and places. Our American mode of government
does not draw any power from tumultuous assemblages. If
any thing is established in that way, it is deceptive. It is true
that at the Revolution governments were forcibly destroyed.
But what did the people then do? They gottogether and
took the necessary steps to frame new governments, as they
did in England When James the Second abdicated. William
asked Parliament to assemble and provide for the case. It was
a revolution, not because there was a change in the person of
the sovereign, but because there was a hiatus which'must be
filled. It has been said by the opposing counsel, that the people can get together, call themselves so many thousands, and
establish whatever government they please. But others must
have the same right. We have then a stormy South American liberty, supported by arms to-day and crushed by arms tomorrow. Our theory places a beautiful face on liberty, and
makes it powerful for good, producing no tumults. When it is
necessary to ascertain the will -of the people, the legislature
must provide the means of ascertaining it. The Constitution
of the United States was established in this way. It was recommended to the States to send delegates to a convention.
They did so. Then it was recommended that the States
should ascertain the will of the people. Nobody suggested any
other mode.
The opposite counsel have cited the examples of the different
States in which constitutions have been altered. Only two
provided for conventions, and yet conventions have been held
in many of them. ; But how? Always these conventions were
called together by the legislature, and no single constitution
has ever been altered by means of a convention gotten up 'by
mass meetings. There must be an authentic mode of ascertaining the public will somehow and somewhere. If not, it is
a government of the strongest and most numerous. It is said,
that, if the legislature refuses to call a convention, the case then

3SUPREME

COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

resembles the Holy Alliance, of Europe, whose doctrine it was
that all changes must originate with the sovereign. But there
is no resemblance whatever. I say that the will of the people
must prevail, but that there must be some mode of finding out
.that w-iiil The people here are as sovereign as the crowned
heads at Laybach, but their will is not so easily discQvered.
They cannot issue a ukase or edict. In 1845, New York
.passed.a law recommending to the people to vote for delegates
-to t convention; but the same penalties against fraud were
provided as in other elections. 'False oaths were punished in
the same way. The will of the people was collected just' as in
ordinary occasions.
What do the Constitution and laws of the United States say
upon this point. The Cofistitution recognizes the existence of
States, and guarantees to each a republican form of government,
and to protect them against domestic violence. The thing
which is to be ,protected is the existing State government.
This is clear by referring to the act of Congress of 1795. In
case of an insurrection against a' State, or the government
-thereof, the. President is to interfere. T.-, Constitution proceeds upon the idea, that each State will take care to establish
its own government upon proper principles, and'does not contemplate these extraneous, and irregular alterations of existing
governments.
Let us now look into the case as it was tried in the court
below, and examine, 1st. Whether this court can take judicial cognizance of, and
decide, the questions which are presented in the record.
2d. Whether the acts which the plaintiff below offered to
prove were not-criminal acts, and therefore no justification for
any body.
3d. Whether in point of fact any new government was put
-,into operation in Rhode Island, as has been alleged.
(Mr. Webster here examined the pleas, &c., and narrative of
proceedings, as above set forth.) The new constitution was proclaimed on the 13th of January, 1842. On the 13th of April, officers were appointed under it, and Mr. Dorr was chosen governor.
On the 3d of -May the legislature met, sat that day and the
next, ,and then adjourned to meet on the first Monday in July,
in Providence. But it never mit again. What became of it?
The whole government went silently out of existence. In November, 1842, the people voted to adopt a constitution which
had been framed under legislative authority, and in May, 1843,
this new constitution went into operation and has ever since
continued. If this displaced Mr. Dorr's government, then
there was an interregnum in the Sfate of nearly a year. -But

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

33-

Luther v. Borden etaL

between the first Monday in July, 1842, and May, 1843, what
had extinguished this government of Mr. Dorr ? It must, have
gone out of itself, and, in fact, only lasted for two days, viz.
the 3d and 4tb of May, 1842. In August, 1842, Dorr was indicted for treason, tried in March, 1844, and found guilty.
(Mr. Webster here read an extract from the charge of Chief
Justice Durfee.)
To return to the first point mentioned. Can this court, or
coulA the court below, take cognizance of the questions which
are raised in the record? If not, the proof was. properly rejected.
The question which the court was called upon to decide was
one of sovereignty. Two legislatures were in existence at the
same time. Both could not be legitimate. If legal power had
not passed away from the charter government, it could not have
got into Dorr's. The position taken on the other side is that
it had so passed away, and it is attempted to be proved by
votes and proceedings of meetings, &c., out of doors. This
court must look elsewhere, - to the Constitution and laws, and
acts of the government, of the United States. How did the
President of the United States treat this question? Acting under the Constitution and law of 1795, he decided that the existing government was the one which he was bound to protect.
He took his stand accordingly, and we say that this is obligatory upon this court, which always follows an executive recognition of a foreign government. The proof offered below, and
rejected by the court, would have led to a different result. Its
object was to show that the Dorr constitution was adopted by
a majority of the people. But how could a court judge of
this? Can it know how many' persons were present, how
many of them qualified voters, and all this to be proved by
testimony? Can it order to be brought before it the minutes
and registers of unauthorized officers, and have them proved
by parol? The decisions of the legislature and courts of
Rhode Island conclude the case. Will you reverse the judgment in Dorr's case?
The second proposition is a branch of the first, viz.: If the court below had admifted the evidence offered by the
other side, and the facts which they alleged had-been established by proof, still they would not have afforded any ground
of justification. The truth of this proposition is sufficiently
manifest from these two considerations, namely, that the acts
referred to were declared to be of a criminal nature by competent authority, and no one can justify his conduct by criminal acts.
3. Let us now inquire whether, in point of fact,.any new gov-

34

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

eminent was put into operation in Rhode Islaud, as has been
alleged.

It has been'before stated that the government of Mr. Dor,
if it ever existed at All, only l asted for two days. Even the
French revolution, rapiT as it was, required three. During
those two days, various officers were appointed; but did any
one ever hear of their proceeding to discharge .their several
iluties ? A court was appointed. But did any process ever
issue under its authority? Was any person ever sued or arrested? Or did any officer, so appointed; venture to bring his
official functions into' practical operation upon either men or
property? There was nothing of this. The government was
nothing but a shadow. It was all paper and patriotism; and
went out on the 4th of May, admitting itself to be, what every
one must now consider it, nothing but a contemptible sham.
Mr. CliffoWd (Attorney-General) concluded the argument on
behalf of the plaintiff in error. He confined his attention almost exclusively to the point, that a State had no right to declare martial law. But of his argument the Reporter. has no
notes.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case has arisen out of the unfortunate political differences which, agitated the people of Rhode Island in 1841 and
1842.
I It is an action of trespass brought by Martin Luther, the
plaintiff in error, against Luther M. Borden and others, the defendants, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Rhode Island, for breaking and entering the plaintiff's
house. The defandatnts justify upon the ground that large
numbers of men were assembled in different parts of the State
for the prpose of overthrowing the government by military
force, and were actually levying war upon the State; that, in
order to defend-itself from this insurrection, the State was declared by competent authority to be under martial law; that
the plaintiff was engaged in the insurrection; and that the defendants, being in the military service of the State, by command of their superior officer, broke and entered the house and
searched the rooms for the plaintiff, who- was supposed to be
there concealed, in order to arrest him, doing as little damage
as possible. The plaintiff replied, that the trespass was committed by.the defendants of their own proper wrong, and without any such cause; and upon the issue joined on this replication, the parties proceeded to trial.
The evidence offered by the plaintiff and the defendants is

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

35

Luther v. Borden et al.

stated at large in the record; and the questions decided by the
Circuit Court, and brought 11p by the writ of error, are not such
as commonly arise
an action of trespass. The existence
and authority of the government under which the defendants
acted was called in Ituestion; and the plaintiff insists, that, before the acts complained of were committed, that government
had been displaced and annulled by the people of Rhode Island, and that the plaintiff was engaged in supporting the lawful authority of the State, and the defendants themselves were
inarms against it.
This is a new question in this court, and certainly a very
grave one; and at the time when the trespass is alleged to have
been committed it had produced a general and painful excitement in the State, and threatened to end in bloodshed and

civil war.
The evidence shows that the defendants, in breaking into the
plaintiff's house and endeavouring to arrest him, as stated in the
pleadings, acted under the authority of the government which
was established in Rhode Iand at the time of the Declaration
of Independence, and which is usually called the charter government. For when the separation from England took place,
Rhode Island did not, like the other States, adopt a new constitution, but continued the forni of government established by
the charter of Charles the Second in 1663; making only such
alterations, by acts of the legislature, as were necessary to adapt
it to their condition and rights as an 'independent State. It
was under this form of government that Rhode Islan 4 united
with the other Statds in the Declaration of Independence, and
afterwards ratified the Constitution of the United States and
became a menmber of this Union'; and it continued to be- the
established and unquestioned government of the State until the
-difficulties took place which have given rise to this action.
In this form of government -nomode of proceeding was
pointed out by which ameidments might be made. It authorized the legislature to prescribe the qualification of voters, and
in the exercise of this power the right of suffrage was confined
to freeholders, until the adoptibu of the constitution of 1843.
For some years previous to the disturbances of which we are
now speaking, many of the citizens became dissatisfied with"
the charter government, and particularly with the restriction
upon the right of suffrage. Memorials -were addressed to the
legislature-upon this subject, uirging the justice and necessity
of a more liberal and extended rule. But they failed to produce the desired effect. And thereupon meetings were held
and associations formed by those who were in favor of a more
extended right of suffrage, which finally resulted in the electiun

36

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et aL

of a convention to form a new constitution to be sibmitted to
the people for their adoption or rejection.. This convention
was not authorized by any law of the existing government.
It was elected at voluntary meetings, and by those citizens
only who favored this -plan of reform; those who were opposed to it, or opposed. to the manner inwhich it was proposed
to be accomplished, taking no part in the proceedings. The
persons chosen as above mentioned came. together and framed
a, constitution, by which the fight of suffrage was extended to
every male citizen of twenty-one years of age, who had resided
in the State for one year, and in the town in which he offered
to vote for six months, next preceding the election. The convention also prescribed the manner in which this constitution
should be submitted to the decision of the people, -permitting
every one to vote on that question who was an American citizen, twenty-one years old, and who had a permanent residence
or home in the State, and directing the votes to be returned to
the convention.
Upon the return of the votes, the convention declared that
the constitution was adopted and ratified by a majority of the
people of the State, and was the paramount law and constitution of Rhode Island. And it communicated this decision to
the ,governor under the charter government, for the purpose of being laid before the legislature; and directed oelections to be held for a governor, members of the legislature, and
other officers under the new constitution. These elections accordingly took place, and the governor, lieutenant-governor,
secretary of state, and senators and representatives thus appointed assembled at the city of Providence on May 3d, 1842,
and immediately proceeded to organize the new government,
by appointing the officers and passing the. laws necessary for
that purpose.
The charter government did not, however, -admit the validity of these proceedings, nor acquiesce in them. -On the contrary, in January, 1842, when this .new constitution was communicated to the governor, and by him laid before the legislature, it passed resolutions declaring all acts done for the purpose of imposing that constitution upon the State to be an assumption of the powers of government, in violation of the
rights of the existing government and of the people at large;
and that it would maintain its authority and defend the legal
-and constitutional rights of the people.
In adopting this measure, as well as in all others taken by
the charter government to assert its authority, it was supported
by a large number of the citizens of the State, claiming to be a
majority, who regarded the proceedings of the adverse party as

JANUARY

TERM,

1849.

37

Luther v. Borden et- aL

unlawfui and disorganizing, and maintained that, as the existing
government had been established by the people of the State, no
convention to frame a new constitution could be called without
its sanction; and that the times and places of taking the votes,
and the officers to receive them, and -the qualification of the
voters, must be previously regulated and appointed by law.
But, notwithstanding the determination- of the charter government, and of those who adhered to it, to maintain its authority, Thomas W. Dorr, who had been elected governor under
the new constitution, prepared to assert the authority of that
government by force, and many citizens assembled in arms to
support him. The charter government thereupon passed an
act declaring the State under martial law, andat the'same time
proceeded to call out.the militia, to repel the threatened attack
and to subdue those ,who were engaged in it.. In this state of
the contest, the house of the plaintiff, who was engaged in supporting the authority of the new government, was broken and
entered in order to arrest him. The defendants were, it the
time, in the. military service of the old government, and in
arms to support its authority.
It appears, also, that the charter government at its session of
January, 1842,_took measures to call a convention to revise the
existing form of government ; and after various proceedings,
which it is not material to state, a new constitution was formed
by a convention elected under the authority of the charter
government, and afterwards adopted and-ratified by the people;
tie times and places at which the votes were to be given, the
persons who wer- to receive and return them, and the qualification of the voters, having all been previously authorized and
provided for by law passed by the charter government. This
new government went into operation in May, 1843, at which
time the old government formally surrendered all its powers;
and this constitution has continued ever since to be 'the admitted and established government' of Rhode Island.
The difficulties with the government of which Mr. Doff was
the head were soon over. They had ceased before the con;stitution iras framed by the convention elected by the authority uf the charter government. For after an unsuccessful attempt made by Mr. Dorr in Mar, 1842, at the head of a military force, to get possession of the State arsenal at Pr6vidence;.
in which he was repulsed,- and an assemblage of some hundreds of armed men under his command at-Chepatchet in thi
June following, which dis )ersed upon *the approach of the
troops of the old gov~rnment, no furtlher effort'was made to establish it; and until the constitution of 1843 went into operation -the charter government continued to assert its authority
4
..VOL. VIL
'

38

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v: Borden et al.

and exercise its powers, and to enforce obediencerthroughout
the State, arresting and imprisoning, and punishing in its judicial tribunals, those who had appeared in arms against it.
We do riot understand from the argument that the constitu-"
tion under which the plaintiff acted is supposed to have been
in force after the constitution of May, 1843, went into operation.
The cointest is .confined to the year preceding. The plaintiff contends that the charter government was displaced, and
ceased to have any lawful power, after the organization, in May,
1842, of the government which he supported, and although
that government never .was able to exercise any authority-in
the State, nor to command obedience to its laws or to its officers, yet he insists that it was the lawful and established government, upon the ground that it was ratified by a large majority of the male people of the State of the age of twenty-one
and upwards, and also by a majority of those who were entitled to vote for general officers under the then existing laws
of the State. The fact that it was*so ratified was -not admitted; and at the trial in the Circuit Court he offered to prove
it by the production 'of the original ballots, 'and the original
registers of-the persbns voting, verified by the oaths of the
several moderators and clerks of the meetings, and by the testimony of all the persons so voting, and by the said constitution; and also offered in evidence, for the same purpose, that
part of the census of the United States for. the* year 1840
which applies to Rhode Island; and a certificate of the secretary of state of the charter government, showing the number
of votes polled by the freemen of the State for the ten years
then last past.
The Circuit Court rejected this evidence, and instructed the
jury that the charter government and laws under which the
defendants acted were, at the time the trespass is alleged to"
have been committed, in full force and effect as the form of
government and paramount law of the State, and constituted
a justification of the acts of the defendants as set forth in their
pleas.
It is this opinion of the Circuit Court that we are now called
upon to review. It is set forth more -at large in the exception,
but is in substance as above stated; and the question presented
iscertainly a very serious one: For, if this court is authorized
to enter upon this inquiry as proposed by the plaintiff, and it
should be decided that the charter government had no legal
existence during the period of time above mentioned, -if it had
been annulled by the adoption of the opposing government, then the laws passed by its legislature d irig that time were
nullities; its taxes wrongfully collected; its salaries and com-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

39

Luther v. Borden et al.

pensation to its officers illegally paid; its public accounts improperly settled; and the judgments and sentences of its courts
in civil and criminal cases null and void, and the officers who
carried their decisions into operation answerable as trespassers,
if not in some cases as criminals.
Whenthe decision of this court might lead to such results,,
it becomes its duty to examine very carefully its own powers
before it undertakes to exercise jurisdiction.
Certainly, the question which the plaintiff proposed to raise
by the testimony he offered has not heretofore been recognized
as a judicial one in any of the State courts. In forming the
constitutions of the different States, after the Declaration of
Independence, and in'the various changes and alterations which
have since been made, the political department has always determined whether the proposed constitution or amendment was
ratified or not by the people of the State, and the judicial
power has followed its decision. In Rhode Island, the question has been directly decide'd. Prosecutions were there instituted against some of the persons who had been active in
the forcible opposition to the old government. And in more
than one of the cases. evidence was offered on the part of the
defence similar to the testimony offered in the Circuit Court,
and for the same purpose; that is, for the purpose of showing
that the proposed constitution had been adopted by the people
of Rhode Island, and had, therefore, become the established.
government, and consequently that the parties accused were
doing nothing more than their duty in endeavouring to support. it.
But the courts uniformly held that the inquiry proposed to
be made belonged to the political power and not to the judicial; that it rested with the political power to decide whether
the charter government had been displaced or not; and when
that decision was made, the judicial department would be
bound to take notice of it as the paramount law of the State,
without the aid of oral evidence or the examination of witnesses; that, according to the lawavs and institutions of Rhode
Island, no such change had been recognized by the political
power; and that the charter government was the lawful and
established government of the State during the period in contest, and that those who were in arms against it were insurgents, and liable to punishment. This doctrine is clearly and
forcibly stated in the opinion of the Supreme Court of the
State in the trial of Thomas W. Dorr, who was the governor
elected under the opposing constitution, and headed the armed
force which endeavoured to maintain its authority
Indeed, we do not see how the question could be tried and

40

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

ju~ficially decided in a State court. Judicial power presup,poses an established, government capable of .enacting laws and
enforcing their, execution, and of appointing judges to expound
and administer them. The acceptance of the judicial office is
a recognition. of the authority of the government from which it
is derived. And if the authority of that government is annulled and overthrown, the power of its courts and other officers
is annulled with it. And if a State court should enter upon the
inquiry proposed in this case, and should come to the conclusion that the government under which it acted had been put
aside and displaced by an opposing government, it would cease
to be a court, and be incapable of pronouncing a judicial decision upon the'question it undertook to try. If it decides at all
as a court, it necessarily affirms the existence and authority of
the government under which it is exercising judicial power.
It is worthy- of remark, however, when we are referring to
the.authority of State decisions, that the trial of Thomas W.
Dorr took place after the constitution of 1843 went into operation. The judges who decided that case held their authority
under that constitution; and it is admitted on all hands that it
was adopted by the people of the State, and is the. lawful and
established government. It is the decision, therefore, of a
State court, whose judicial authority to decide upon the constitution and laws of Rhode Island is not questioned by either
party to this controversy, although the government under
which it acted was framed and adopted under the sanction and
laws of the charter government.
The point, then, raised here has been already decided by the
courts .ofRhode Islknd. The question relates, altogether, to
the constitution and laws of that State ; and the well settled
rule in this court is, that the courts of the United States adopt
and follow the decisions of the State courts in questions which
concern merely the constitution and laws of the State
Upon'what ground could the Circuit Court of the United
States which tried this case have departed from this rule, and
disregarded and overruled the decisions of the courts of Rhode
Island? Undoubtedly the courts of the United States have
certain powers under the Constitution and laws of the United
States which do not belong to the-State courts. But the
power of determining that a State government has been lawfully established, which the courts of the State disown and
repudiate, is not one of them. Upon such a question the courts
of the United States, are bound to follow the decisions of the
State tribunalS, and must therefore regard the charter government as the lawful'and established governnient during the time
of this contest.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

41

Lutlier v. Borden et al.

Besides, "ifthe Circuit Court had entered upon this inquiry,
by what rule could it have determined the qualification of
voters upon the adoption or rejection of the proposed constitution, unless there was some previous law of the State to guide
it? It is the province of a court to expound the law, not to
make it. And certainly it is no part of the judicial functions
of any court of the United States to prescribe the qualification
of voters in a State, giving the right to those to whom it is
denied by the written and established constitution and laws of
the State, or taking it away from those to whom it is given;
nor has it the right to determine what political privileges the
citizens of a State are entitled to, unless there is an established
constitution or law to govern its decision.
And if the then existing law of Rhode Island which confined
the right of suffrage to freeholders is t6 govern, and this question is to be tried by that rule, how could the majority have
been ascertained by legal evidence, such as a court of justice
might lawfully receive? The written returns of the moderators and clerks of mere voluntary meetings, verified by affidavit, certainly would not be admissible; nor their opinions or
judgments as to the freehold qualification of the persons who
voted. The law requires actual knowledge in the witness of
the fact (o which he testifies in a court of justice. How, then,
could the Majority of, freeholders have been determined in a
judicial proceeding?
The, court had not the power to order a census of the freeholders to be taken; nor would the census of the United States
of 1840 be any evidence of 'the number of freeholders in the
State in 1842. Nor could the court appoint persons to examiine and determine whether every person who had voted
possessed the freehold qualification Which the law then required.' In the nature of things,. the Circuit Court could not
know the name and residence of every citizen, and bring him
before the court to be examined. And if this were attempted,.
where would such an inquiry have, terminated? And how
long must the people of Rhode Island have waited to learn
from this court under what form of government they were
living during the year in controversy?
But this is not all. The question as to the majority is a
question of fact. It depends upoh the testimony of witnesses,
and if the testimony offered by the plaintiff had been received,
the defendants had the right to offer evidence to rebut it; and
there might, and probably would, have been conflicting testimony as to the number of voters- in the State, aad as to the
legal qualifications of many of the individuals -who had voted.
The decision would, therefore, have depended upon the rela4*

42

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

tive credibility of-witnesses, and the weight of testimony; and
as the case before the Circuit Court was an action at common
law, the question of fact, according to the seventh amendment
to the Constitution of the United States, must have been tried
by the jury. In one case a jury might find that the constitution which the plaintiff supported was adopted by a majority
of the citizens of the State,. or of the voters entitled to vote by
the existing law. Another jury 'in another cae might find
otherwise. And as a verdict is not evidence in a suit between
different parties, if the courts of the United States have the
jurisdiction contended for by the plaintiff, the question whether the acts done under the charter government during the period
in contest are valid or-not must always remain unsettled and
open to dispute. The authority and security of the State governments do not rest on such unstable foundations.
Moreover, the Constitution of the United .States, as fai as it
has provided for an emergency of this kind, and authorized the
general government to interfere in the domestic concerns of a
State, has treated the subject as political in- its nature, and
placed -the power in the hands of that department.
The fourth section of the fourth article of the Constitution-of
the United States provides that the United States shall guarantee to every State in the Union a republican form of government, and shall protect each of them against invasion; and
on the application of the legislature or of the executive (when
the legislature cannot be convened) against domestic violence.
Under this article of the Constitution it rests with Congress
to decide what government is the established one in a State.
For as the .United States guarantee to each State a republican
government, Congress must necessarily decide what governmefnt is'established in the State before it can determineo-whether it is republican or not. And when the senators and represefitatives of a State are admitted into the councils of the
Union, the authority of the government under which they are
appointed, as well as its republican *character,is recognized by
the proper constitutional authority. And its decision is binding
on every other department of the government, and coui. not
be questioned in a judicial tribunal. It is true that the co;.test
in this case did not last long enough to bring the mat.:r -to
this issue; and as no senators or representatives were elected
under the authority of the government of which Mr. Dorr was
-the head; Congress was not called upon .to decide the controversy. Yet the right to decide is placed there, and not in: the
courts.
So, too, as relates to -the clause in the above-mentioned article
of the Constitution, providing for cases of domestic violence.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

43

Luther v. Borden et al.

It rested with Congress, too, to determine upon the means proper
to be adopted to fulfil this guarantee. They might, if they had
deemed it most advisable to do so, have placed it in the power
of a court to decide when the contingency had happened which
required the federal government to interfere. But Congress
thought otherwise, and no doubt wisely; and by-the act of
February 28, 1795, provided, that, "in case of an insurrection
in any State against the government thereof, it shall be lawful
for the President of the United States, on application of the
legislature of such State or of the executive (when the legislature cannot be convened); to ball forth such number of the
militia of any other State or States, as may be applied for, as
he may judge sufficient to suppress such insurrection."
By this act, the power of deciding whether the exigency
had'arisen upon which the government of the United States
is bound to interfere, is given to the President. He is to act
upon the application of the legislature or of the executive, and
consequently he must determine what body -of men constitute
the legislature, and who -is the governor, lefore he can act.
The fact that both parties claim the right to the. government
cannot alter the case, for both cannot be entitled to it. If
there is an armed conflict, like the one of which we are speak-.
ing, it is a case of domestic violence, and one of the parties
must be in insurrection against the lawful government. And
the President -must, of necessity, decide which is the government, and which party is unlawfully arrayed against it; before
he can perform the duty imposed upon-him by the act of Congress.
After the President has acted and called out the militia, is a
Circuit Court of the United States authorized to inquire whether his decision was right? Could the court, while the parties were actually contending in arms for the.possession of the
government, call witnesses before it and inquire which party
represented a majority of the people? If it could, then it
would become the duty of the court (provided it came to the
conclusion that the President had decided incorrectly) to discharge those who were arrested or detained by -the troops in
the service of the United States or the government which the
President was endeavouring to maintain. If the judicial power
extends so far, the guarantee contained in the Constitution of
the United States is a guarantee of anarchy, and not of order.
Yet if this right does not reside in the courts when the conflict
is raging, if the judicial power is at that time bound to follow
the decision of the political, it must be equally bound when
the contest is over. It cannot, when peace is restored, punish
as offences and crimes the acts which it before recognized, and
was bound to recognize, as lawful.

44

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et aL

It is true that in this case the militia were not called out by
the President. But upon the application of the governor under the charter government, the President recognized him as
the executive power of the State, and took measures to call
out the militia to support his authority if it should be found
necessary for the general government to interfere; and it is admitted in the argument, that it was the knowledge of this decision that put an end to the armed opposition to the charter
government, and prevented any further efforts to establish by
force tile proposed constitution.. The interference of the Presi'dent, therefore, by announcing his determination, was as effectual as if the militia had been assembled under his orders.
And it should be equally authoritative. For certainly no court
of the United States, with a knowledge of this decision, would
have been justified in recognizing the opposing party' as the
lawful government; or in treating as wrongdoers or insurgents
the officers of the government which the President had-recognized, and was prepared to support by an armed force. In the
case of foreign nations, the government acknowledged by the
President is always recognized in the courts of justice. And
this principle has been applied by the act of Congress to the
sovereign States of the Union.
It, is' said that this power in the President is dangerous to
liberty, and may be abused. All power may be, abused if
placed in unworthy hands. But it would be difficult, we
think, to pointout any other hands in which this power would
be more safe, and at the same time equally effectual. When
citizens of the same State are in arms against each other, and
the constituted authorities unable to execute the laws, the interposition of the United States must be prompt, or it is of little
value. The ordinary course of proceedings in courts of justice
would be utterly unfit for the -crisis. And the elevated office
of the President, chosen as he is by the people of the United
States, and the high responsibility he could not fail to feel
when acting in a case of so much moment, appear to furnish as
strong safeguards against a wilful abuse of power as human
prudence and foresight could well provide. At all events, it is
conferred upon him by the Constitution and laws of the United
States, and must therefore be resnected and enforced in its
judicial tribunals.
A question very similar to this arose in the case of Martin v.
Mott, 12 Wheat. 29- 31. The first clause of the first section
of the act of February 28, 1795, of which we have been speaking, authorizes the President to call out the militia to repel invasion. It is the second clause in the same section which
authorizes the call to, suppress an insurrection against a State

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

45

Luther v. Borden et al.

government. The power given to -the President in each case
is the same,- with this difference only, that it cannot be exercised by him in the latter case, except upon the application
of the legislature or executive of the State. The case above
mentioned arose out of a call made by the President, by iirtue
of the power conferred by ,.he first clause; and the court said,
that, "'whenever a statute gives a discretionary power to &ify
person to be exercised by him upon his own opinion of Certain
facts, it is a sound rule of construction that the statute constitutes him the sole and exclusive judge of the existence -ofthose
facts." The grounds upon which that opinion is-maintainedare set forth in the report, and we think are conclusive. The
same principle applies to the case nlow before the court, Undoubtedly, if the President in. exercising this power shall fall
into error, or invade the rights of. the people of the State, it
would be in the power of Congress to apply the proper remedy.
But the courts must administer the law as they find it.
The remaining question is whether the defendants, acting
under militaryorders issued under the authority of the government, were justified in breaking and entering the -plaintiff's
house. In'rlation to the act of the legislature declaring, martial law, it is not necessary in the case before us to inquire to
what extent, nor under what circumstances, that power may be
exercised. by a State. Unquestionably a military government,
established as the permanent government of the State, would:
not be a republican government, and it would be the duty of
Congress to overthrow it. But the law of Rhode Island evidently contemplated no such government. It w'as intended
merely for the crisis, and to meet ihe peril in which tle existing government was placed by the armed resistance to its
authority. It was so understood and construed by the State.
authorities. And, unquestionably, a State may use its military power to put down an armed insurrection, too strong
to be controlled by the civil authority The power is essential to the existence of every government, essential to the preservation of order and free institutions,.and is as necessary to
the States of this Union as to any other, government. The
State itself must determine what degree of-force the crisis demands. And if the 'g6vernment of Rhode Island deemed the
armed opposition so formidable, and so ramified throughout the
State, as to require the use of its military force and the declaration of martial law, we see no ground upon which this court
can question its authority. It was a state of war; and the established government resorted to the rights and usages of war to
maintain itself, and to overcome the unlawful opposition. And
in that state of things the officers engaged in its military ser-

46

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

vice might lawfully arrest any one, who, from the information
liefore them, they had reasonable grounds to believe was engaged in the insurrection; and might order a house to be forcibly entered and searched, when. there were reasonable grounds
for supposing he might be there, concealed. Without the
power to do this, martial law and the military array of the
government would be mere parade, and rather encourage attack than repel it. No more force, however, can be used than
is necessary to accomplish the object. .And if the power is
exercised for the purposes of oppression, or any injury wilfully
done to person or property, the party by whom, or by whose
order, it is committed would undoubtedly be answerable.
We forbear to remark upon the cases referred to in the argument, in relation to the commissions anciently issued by the
kings of England to commissioners, to procebd against certain
descriptions of persons in certain places by the law martial.
These commissions were issued -by the king at his pleasure,
without the concurrence or authority of Parliament, and were
often abused for the most despotic and oppressive purposes.
They were used before the regal power of England was well
defined, and were finally abolished and prohibited by the petition of right in the reign of Charles the First. But they bear
no analogy in any respect to the declaration of martial law by
the legislative authority of the-State, made for the purposes
of self-defence, when assailed by an armed force; and the cases
and commentaries concerning these commissions cannot, therefore, influence the construction of the Rhode Island law, nor
furnish any test of the lawfulness of the authority exercised by
the government.
Upon the whole, we see -no reason for disturbing the judgment of the Circuit Court. The admission of evidence to
prove that the charter government was the established government of the State was. an irregularity, but is not material to
the judgment. - A Circuit Court of the United States sitting in
Rhode Island is presumed to know the constitution and law
of the State. And in order to make up its opinion upon that
subject, it seeks information from any authentic and available
source, without waiting foi the formal introduction of testimony to prove- it, and" without "confining itself to the process
which the parties may offer. But this error of the Circuit
Court does not affect the'result. For whether this evidence
was or was not received the Circuit Court, for the reasons
herein before stated, was bound to recognize that government
as the paramount and established authority of the State.
Much of the argument on the part of the plaintiff turned
upon political rights and political questions, upon which the

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

47

Luther v. Borden et-al.

court has been urged to express an opinion. We decline doing
so. The high power has been conferred on this court of passmg judgment upon the acts of the State sovereignties, and of
the legislative and executive branches of the federal government, and of determining whether they are beyond the limits
of power marked out for them. respectively by the Constitution
of the United States. This tribunal, therefore, should be the
last to overstep the boundaries which limit its own jurisdiction. And while it should always be ready to meet any question confided -to it by the Constitution, it is equally its duty
not to pass beyond its appropriate sphere of action, and to take
care not to involve itself in discussions which properly belong
to other forums. No one, we believe, has ever doubted the
proposition, that, according to the institutions of this country,
the sovereignty in every State resides in the people of the
State, and that they may alter and change their form of government at their own pleasure. But whether they have
changed it or not by abolishing an old government, and establishing a new one in its place, is a question to be settled by the
political power. And when that power has decided, the courts
are bound to take notice of its decision, and to follow it.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must therefore be
affirmed.
RACHEL .LuTHER V. LUTHER

M.

BOIDEN ET AL.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case has been sent here under a certificate of -division
from the Circuit Court for the District of Rhode Island. It
appears, on the face of the record; that the. division was merely
formal, and that the whole case has been transferred to this
court, and a multitude of points (twenty-nine in number) presented for its decision. We have repeatedly decided that this
mode of proceeding is not warranted by the act of Congress,
authorizing the justices of a Circuit Court to certify to the
Supreme Court a question of law which arose at the trial, and
upon which they differed in opinion. And many cases in
which, like the present one, the whole case was certified, have
been dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The same disposition
must be made of'this
The material points, however, have
been decided in the case of Martin Luther against the same
defendants, in which the opini6n of this court has been just
delivered, and which was regularly brought up by Writ of error
upon the judgment of the Circuit Court. The case before us
depends mainly upon the same principles, and, indeed, grew
out of the same transaction; and the parties will understatid the

48

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

judgment of this court upon all the material points certified,
from the opinion it has already given in the case referred to.
This case is removed to the Circuit Court.
MARTIN LUTHER v.

LUTHER M.

BORDEN ET AL.

Mr. Justice WOODBURY, dissenting.
The writ in this case charges the defendants with breaking
and entering the plaintiff's dwelling-house, on the 29th of
June, 1842, and doing much, damage.
The plea in justification alleges, that, on June 24th, 1842,
an assembly in arms had taken place in 'Rhode Island, to
overawe and make war upon the State. And therefore, in
order to protect its government, the legislature, on the 25th of
that month, passed in act declaring the whole State to be under martial law. That the plaintiff was assisting in traitorous
designs, and had been in arms to sustain them, and the defendants were ordered by J. Child, an officer in the militia,
to arrest the .plaintiff, and, supposing him within the house
named in the writ, to break and enter it for the purpose of ful-"
filling that order; and, in doing this, they caused as little damage as possible.
The replication denied a11 the plea, and averred that the defendants did the acts complained of in their own wrong, and
without the cause alleged.
To repel the defence, and in vindication of ihe conduct of
the plaintiff; much evidence was offered; the substance of
which will be next stated, with some leading facts proved on
the other side in connection with it.
The people of Rhode Island had continued to live under
their charter of 1663 froin Charles the Second, till 1841, with
some, changes in the right of suffrage by acts-of the legislature,
but. without any new constitution, and still leaving .in force a
requirement of a freehold qualification for voting. By- the
growth of the State in commerce and manufactures, this requirement had for some time been obnoxious; as it excluded
so many adult males of personal worth and possessed of intelligence and wealth, though not of land, and as 'it made
the ancient apportionment of the number of representatives,
founded on real estate, very disproportionate to the present
population and personal property in different portions and
cons of the State.
This led to- several applications to the legislature for a
change in these matters, or for provision to have a convention of the people called to corTect it by a new constitution.
These all failing, voluntary- weicties were
reed in 1841.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

49

Luther v. Borden et al.

and a convention called by them of delegates, selected by the
male adults who hadcresided one year in the- State, with a
view chiefly to correct the right of suffrage and the present
unequal apportionment of representatives. This, though done
without the formalities or recommendation of any statute of
the State, or any provision in the charter, was done peacefully,
and with as much care and form as were practicable without
such a statute or charter provision. - A constitution was formed
by those delegates, a vote taken on its ratification, and an
adoption of it made, as its friends supposed, and offered to
prove, by a decided majority, both of the freehold -voters and
of the male adults-in the State.
Political officers for the executive and legislative departments
were tlhen chosen under it by those in its favor, which officers
assembled on the 3d of May, 1842, and took their respective
oaths of office and appointed several persons to situatiofis under the constitution, and among them the existing judges of
the superior court.
After transacting some other business the next day, -but
.the old officers in the State under the charter not acknowledging their authority, nor surrendering to them the public records
and public property, - they adjourned till July after, and never
convened again, nor performed any further offibial duties. Nor
did they institute actions for the possession of the public rec-'
ords and public property; but T. Dorr, the person elected
governor, at the head of an armed force, on the 25th of June,
1842, in his suppo ed official capacity, made some attempt to
get possession of the public arsenal; but failing in it, he dismissed the military assembled, by a written order, on the 27th.
of June, and left the State. He stated as a reason for this,
"that a majority of the friends of the people's constitution disapprove of any further forcible measures for its support."
In the mean time, the officers under the old charter, having, as
before suggested, continued in possession of the public records
and property, and in the discharge of their respective functions,
passed an act, on the 24th of June, placing the State under
martial law. A proclamation was then issued by the governor,
warning the people not to support the neW constitution or its
officers, and another act was passed making it penal to officiate
under it. An application was made to the President of the United States for assistance iA quelling the disturbances apprehended, but was answered by him on the 29th of May,. 18W, not
complying with the request, though with expressions of will-ingness to do it, should it, in his opinion. afterwards bece ae
necessary.
Nothing further seems to have been done by him -in the
VOL. VII.

5

50

S'UPREME COURT.
Luther v" Borden et al.

premises, except that on the 29th of June, the day of the trespass
complained of in this action, a proclamation was prepared under his direction, but not issued, denouncing such of the supporters of the new constitution as were in arms to be "1insurgents," and commanding them to disperse.
It was next shown by the respondents, that Dorr, the governor elect under the new constitution, was, in August, 1842,
indicted for treason against the State, and being apprehended
in 1844, was then tried and convicted.
It further appears that the court, at the trial of the present
cause, ruled out the evidence offered by the plaintiff in support
of his conduct, and admitted that which went to justify the
defendants, and decided that the old charter, and not the new
constitution, was in force at the time the act passed declaring
martial law, and that this law was valid, and, as pleaded, justifled the defendants in their behaviour.
Without entering here at more length intd details concerning
the unhappy controversy which agitated Rhode Island in 1842,
it is manifest that it grew out of a .political difficulty among
her own people, in respect to the formation of a new constitution. It is not probable that the active leaders, and much less
the masses, who were engaged on either side, had any intention to commit crimes or oppress illegally their fell, w-citizens.
Such, says Grotius, is usually, in civil strife, the t ue, liberal
view to be taken of the masses. (Grotius on War, B. 3, ch. 11,
.sec. 6.) And much more is it so, when, Mii a free country, they
honestly divide on great political principles, and do not wage
a struggle merely for rapine or spoils. In this instance each
side appears to have sought, by means which it considered lawful and proper, to sustain the cause in which it had erfibarked,
till peaceful discussions and peaceful action unixpectedly rilened into a resort to arms, and brother became arrayed against
brother in civil strife. Fortunately, no lives were destroyed,
and little property injured. But the bitterness -consequent on
such differences did not pass off without some highly Tenal legislation, and the extraordinary measure of the establishment of
martial law over the whole State. Under these circumstances,
it is too much to expect, even at this late day, that a decision
on any branch of this controversy can be received without
some of the leaven of former political excitement and prejudice,
on the one side or the'other, by those who were engaged in its
stirring scenes. Public duty, however, seems to require each,
member of this court to speak freely his own convictions on.
the different questions which it may be competent for us to
decide; and when one of those members, like myself, has the
misfortune to differ in any respect from the rest, to explain

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

51

Luther v. Rordien et al.

with frankness, and undeterred by consequences, the grounds
of that difference.
This difference, however, between me and my brethren ex!ends only to the points in issue concerning maitial law. But
that being a very important one in a free government, and this
controversy having arisen in the circuit to which I belong, and
where the deepest interest is felt in its decision, I hope to be
excused for considering that point fully; and for assigning,
also, some additional and different reasons why I concur with
the rest of the court in the opinion, that the other leading
questi'on, the validity of the old charter at that time, is
not within our constitutional jurisdiction. These tyvo inquiries seem to cover the whole debatable ground, and I refrain to give an opinion on the last question, which is merely
political, under a conviction that, as a judge, I possess no right
to do it, and not to avoid or conceal" any views entertained by
me concerning them, as mine, before sitting on this bench
and as a citizen, were frequently and publicly avowed.
It must be very obvious, on a little reflection, that the last
is a mere political question. Indeed, large portions of the
points subordinate to it, on this record, which have been so
ably discussed at the bar, are of a like character, rather than
being judicial in -their nature and cognizance. For they extend to the power of the people, independent of the legislature,
to make constitutions, -to the right of suffrage among different
classes of them in doing this, - to the authority of naked majorities, - and other kindred questions, of such high political interest as during a few years to have agitated much of the Union,
no less than Rhode Island.
But, fortunately for our freedom from' political excitements m
judicial duties, this court can never with propriety be called on
officially to be the umpire, in questions merely political. The
adjustment of these questions belongs to the people and their political representatives, either in the State or general government.
These questions relate to matters not to be settled on strict
legal principles. They are adjusted rather by inclination, - or
prejudice or compromise, often. Some of them succeed or are
defeated even by public policy alone, or mere naked power,
rather than intrinsic right. There being so diflfereht tastes as
well as opinions in politics, and especially in forming constitutions, some people prefer foreign models, some domestic, and
some neither; while judges, on the contrary, for their guides,
have fixed constitutions and laws, given to them by others, and
not provided by themselves. And those others are nb more
Locke than an Abb Sieyes, but the people. Judges, for constitutions, must go to the people of their own countr3, and must

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

merely enforce such as the people themselves, whose judicial
servants they are, have been pleased to put into operation.
Another evil, alarming and little foreseen, involved in regarding these as questions for the final arbitrament of judges
would be, that in such an event all political privileges and
rights would, in a dispute among the people, depend on: our
decision finally. We would possess the power to decide
against as well as for them, and under a prejudiced or arbitrary
judiciary the public liberties and popular pri-Vileges might thus
be much perverted, if not entirely prostrated. But, allowing
the people to make constitutions and unmake them, allowing
their representatives to make laws and unmake them, and without our interference as to their principles or policy in doing it,
yet, when constitutions and laws are made and put in force by
others, then the courts, as empowered by the State or the
Union, commence their fifnetions and'may decide on the righfs
which conflicting parties can legally set up under them, ratherthan about their formition itself. Our power begins after
theirs ends. Constitutons and laws precede the judiciary, and
we act only under ane after them, and as to disputed rights
beneath .them, rather than disputed points in making them.
We speak -what is the law, jus dicere, we speak or construe what is the constitution, 'after both are made, but we
make, or revise, or control neither. The disputed rights beneath constitutions already made are to be governed by precedents, by sound legal principles, by positive legislation, clear
contracts, moral duties, and fixed rules; they are per se questions of law, and are well suited to the education and habits
of the bench. But the other disputed points in making constitutions, depending often, as before shown, on policy, inclination, popular resolves, and popular will, and arising not in respect to private rights, -not what is meum and ttum,-but in
relation to politics, they belong to politics, and they are settled by political tribunals, and are too dear to a people bred in
the school of Sydney and Russel for them ever to intrust
their final decision, when disputed, to a class of men who are
so far removed, from them as the judiciary;* a class, also, who
might decide them erroneously as well as right, and if in the
former way, the consequences might not be able to be averted
except by a revolution, while a'wrong decision by a'political
forum can often be peacefully -corrected by new elections or
instructions in a single month. And if the people, in the distribution of powers under the constitution, should ever think of
making judges supreme arbiters in political controversies, when
not selected by nor, frequently, amenadbre to them, nor at liber-'
ty to -follow such various considerations in their judgments as

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

53

Luther v. Borden et al.

belong to mere political questions, they will dethrone themselves and lose one of their own invaluable birthrights; buildIng up in this way- slowly, but surely- a new sovereign
power in the republic, in most respects irresponsible and unchangeable for life, and one more dangerous, in theory at least,
than the worst elective oligarchy in the worst of times.
Again, instead of controlling the people in political affairs, the
judiciary in our system was designed rather to control individuals, on the one hand, when encroaching, or to defend them,
on the other, under the Constitution and the laws, when they
are encr6ached upon. And if the judiciary at times seems to
fill the important station of a check in the government, it is
rather a check on the legislature, who may attempt to pass
laws contrary to the Constitution, or on the executive,, who
may violate both the laws and Constitution, than on the people themselves in their primary capacity as makers and amenders of constitutions.
Hence the judiciary power is not regarded by elementary
writers on politics and jurisprudence as a power co6rdinate or
commensurate with that of the people themselves, but rather
co6rdinate with that .of the legislature. Kendall v. U. States,
12 Peters, 526. Hence, too, the following view was urged,
when the adoption of the Constitution was under consideration:
- " It is the more rational to suppose that the courts were designed to be an intermediate body between the people and the
legislature, in order, among other things, to keep the latter within' the limits-assigned to their authority:' (Federalist, No. 77,by
Hamilton.) -' Nor does the conclusion by any means suppose a
superiority of the judicial to the legislative power. It only supposes that the power of the people is superior to both," &c., &c.
But how would this superiority be as to this court, if we could
decide finally on all the political claims and acts of the people,
and overrule or sustain them according only to our own views?.
So the judiciary, by its mode of appointment, long duration in
.pffice, and slight accountability, is rather fitted to check legislative power than political, and enforce what the political
authorities have manifestly ordained. These last authorities
are, by their pursuits and interests, bettei suited to make rules;
we, to expound and.enforce them, after made.
The subordinate questions which also arise here in connection
with the others, such as whether all shall vote in forming or
amending those constitutions who are capable and accustomed
to transact busaless in social and civil life, and none others; and
whether; in great exigencies of oppression by the legislature itself, and refusal by it to give relief, the people may not take
the subject into their own hands, independent of -the legisla5*

54

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et aL

tue ; and whether a simple plurality in number on such an occasion, or a majority of all, or a larger proportion, like two
thirds or three fourths, shall be deemed necessary and pr6per for"
a chbnge; and whether, if peacefully completed, violence can
afterwards be legally used against them by the old government, if that is still in possession of the public property and
public records; whether what are published and acted on as
the laws and constitution of a State were made by persons
duly chosen or not, were enrolled and read according to certain
parliamentary rules or not, were in truth voted for by a majority or two thirds; -these
and .several other questions equally
debatable and difficult in their solution are in some aspects
a shadd less political. But they are still political. They are
too near all the great fundamental principles in government,
and are too momentous, ever to have been intrusted by our
jealous fathers to a body of men like judges, holding office for
life, independent in salary, and not elected by the people themselves.
Non nostrum tantas componere lites. Where, then, does our
power, as a general rule, begin? In what place runs the true
boumdary-line? It is here. Let the political authorities admit as valid a constitution made with or without previous provision by- the legislatur&, a'sin the last situation Tennessee
and Michigan were introduced into the Union. (See Federalist, No. 40, and 2 Ell. Deb. 57; 13 Regis by Y. 95, 1164, and
Cong. Globe, App., 78, 137, 147.) Let the collected will of the
people as to changes be so strong, and so strongly evinced, as
to call down no bills of pains and penalties to resist it, and no
arming of the militia or successful appeals to the general government to suppress it by force, as none were in some cases
abroad as well as in-America, and one recently in New York,
which might be cited beside those above. (See A. D. 1846, and
.opinion of their judges.) In short, let a constitution or law,
!however originating, be clearly acknowledged by the existilig
political tribunals, and be put and kept in successful operation.
'The judiciary can then act in conformity to and under them.
(Kemper v. Hawkins, 1 Virg. Cas., 74, App.) Then, when
the claims of individuals come in conflict under them, it is the
true province of the judiciary to decide what they righatfully
-are under such constitutions and laws, rather than to decide
-whether those constitutions and laws themselves have been
rightfully or wisely made.
Again, the, Constitution' of the United States enumerates
specially the cases over which its judiciary is to have cognizance, but nowhere includes controversies between the people
of a State as to the formation'or change of their constitutions.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

55

Luther v. Borden et aL

(See Article 3, sec. 2.) Though at first the federal judiciary.
was empowered to entertain jurisdiction where a State was a
party in a suit, it has since been deprived even of that-power
by a jealous country, except in cases of disputed boundary.
(Article. 3, sec. 2; Aihendment 11th; Massachusetts v. Rhode
Island, 12 Peters, 755.).
If it be asked what redress have the people, if wronged in
these matters, unless by. resorting to the judiciary, the answer
is, they have the same as in all other political matters. In
those, they go to the ballot-boxes, to the legislatuie or executive, for the redress of such grievances as are within'the'jurisdiction of each, and, for such as are not, to coniventions and
amendments of constitutions. Andwhen the former fail, and
these last are forbidden by statutes, all that is left in extreme
cases, where the suffering is intolerable'and the prospect is good
of relief by action of the people without the forms of law, is to
do as did-Hampden and Washington, and venture action without those forms, and abide the consequences. Should strong
majorities favor the change, it generally is completed without
much violence. In -most states, where representation is not
unequal, or the right of suffrage. is not greatly restricted, the
popular will can be felt and triumph through the populdr vote
and the delegates of the people in the legislature, and will thus
lead soon, and peacefully, to legislative measures encifpg in'reform, pursuant to legislative countenance and without the necessity of any stronger collateral course. But when the representation is of a character which defeats. this, the action of the
people, even then, if by large majorities, will seldom be prosecuted with harsh pains and penalties, or resisted with arms.
Changes, thus demanded and. thus supported, will usually be
allowed to go into peaceful conisummation. But when not qo
allowed, or when they are attempted by small or doubtful majorities, it must be conceded.that it will be at their peril,, as
they will usually be resisted- by those in power by means of
prosecutions, and sometimes by violence, and, unless crowned
by success, and thus subsequently ratified, .they will often be
punished as rebellious or treasonable.
If the majorities, however, in favor of changeg happen to -be
large, and still those in power refuse to yield to .them, as in the
English revolution of 1688., or in our own of 1776, the popUlar
movement will "generally succeed, though it be only by a
union of physical with moral strength; and when triumphant,
it will, as on those occasions- confirm by subsequent forms of
law what may have begun without them.
T1lhere are several other questions, also, which may arise under our, form of government that are not properly of judicial

56

SUPREME COURT.
-Luther v. Borden et aL.

cognizance. They or ginate in political matters, extend to
political objects, and do not involve any pecuniary claims or
consequences between individuals, so as to become grounds for
judicial. inquiry. These questions are decided sometimes by
legislatures, or heads of departments, or by public *political
bodies, and sometimes by officers' executive or military, so at
not to be revisable here. (See Decatur v. Paulding, 14
Peters, 497,)
Looking to all these considerations, it appears to me that we
cannot rightfully settle those grave political questions, which,
in this case, have been discussed in connection. with the new
constitution; and, as judges, our duty is to take for a guide
the decision made on them by the proper political powers, and,
whether right or wrong according to our private opinions, enforce it till duly altered. -But it is not necessary to rest this
conclusion, on reasoning- alone. Several precedents in this
coirt, as well as in England, show the propriety of it.
In Foster et al. v. Neilson, 2 Peters, 309, where the title to
the property depended on the question, whether the land was
within a cession by treaty to the UL.:.ed States, it was held
that after our government, legislative and executive, had claimed
jurisdiction over it, the courts must consider that the question was a political one, the decision of which, having been
made in this manner, they must conform to. (See, also, 6
Peters, 711, and Garcia v. Lee, 12 Peters, 520; 13'Peters,
419.) In The Cherokee Nation v. The State of Georgia, 5
Peters, 20, the court expressed strong -doubts whether it was
not a political question7 not proper for their decision, to protect
the Cherokee Indians in their possessions, and to restrain the
State of Georgia and, construe and enforce its treaty obligations.
Justice Johnson seemed decisive that 'it was.
In Masachusetts v.- Rhode Island, 12 Peters, 736, 738, it
was held that the boundaries between States was a political
question per se, add should, be adjusted by political tribunals,
unless agreed to be settled as a judicial question, and in the
Constitution, so provided for. (Garcia v. Lee, ib. 520.)
In Barclay v.- Russel, 3 Ves. 424, in respect to confiscations, it-was helcl to be a political question, and a subject oftreaty, and not of municipal jurisdiction. (p. 434.)
In Nabob bTf, the Carnatlc v. The East India Company, 2
Ves. jun. 56, the court decided that political treaties between a
foreign state and- subjects of Great Britain, conducting as a
state under acts of Parliament, are not a matter of municipal
jurisdiction, and to be examined and enforced by the-judiciary.
Another .class of political quesfions, coming still nearer this,
is, Which must be regarded as the rightful gevernment abroad

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

57

Luther v. Borden et al.

-

between two contending parties- That is never settled by
the judiciary, but is left to the decision of the general government. (-The CherQkee Case, 5 Peters, 50; and Williams v. Suffolk Ins. Co., 13 Peters, 419; 2 Cranch, 241; Rose v. Hirnely, 4 Cmnch , 268; United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. 634,
and Gelston v. Hoyt, ib. 246; The Divina Pastora, 4 Wheat.
64; 14 Yes. 353 ;. 1.1 Ves. 583; 1 Edw. Ad. 1.)
* The doctrines laid down in Palmer's case are as directly applicable to this in the'event of tw0 contending parties in arms
in a domestic war as in a foreign. If one is recognized by the
executive or legislature bf the Union as the de facto government, the judiciary cap. only conform to that political decision.
Seer also, The Santissima Trinidad, 7 Wheat. 336, 337; .'and,
further, that if our general government recognizes'either as exclusively in power, the judiciary must sustdin its belligerent
rights, see 3 Suminer, .270. In the case of the City of
Berne v. The Bank of England, 9 Yes. 348, it was held that
"a judicial court cannot take notice of a foreign government
not acknowledged by the government of the country in which
the court sits." The same rule has been applied by this court
in case of a contest as to which. is the true constitution, between two, or which possesses the true-legislative power in one,
of our own States, - those citizens acting under the new constitution, which isobjected to as irregularly made, or those under
the old territorial government therein. &emb. Scott et al. v.
Jones et al., 5 Howard) 374. In that case we-held that no writ
of error lies to us to revise a decision of a State court, where the
only quetion is the validity of the statute on account of the.
•political questions and objections just named. It was held, also,
in'Williams v.'Suffolk Ins. Qo., 3 Sumner, 270, that, where a
claim exists by two governments over a country, the courts of
each are bound to consider the claims of their own government
as Tight, being settled for the. time being by the proper political
tribunal. ' -Andhence no right exists in their judicial authorities
to revise that.decision. (pp. 273, 275; S. C., 13 Peters, 419.)
" Omnia rite acta. It might, otherwise happen, that the extraordinary spectacle might be presented of the courts of a
country disavowing and annulling the acts of its own government in matters of state ana political diplomacy."
This is no new distinction in judicial practice any more
ihan in judicial adjudications. The pure mind of Sir Matthew
Hale, after much hesitation, at last consented to preside on the
bench in administering the laws between private parties under
a government established and recognized by other g6vemments, and. in full possession de facto of the records and power
of the kingdoin, but without feeling satisfied on inquiring, as a

6

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

judicial question, into its legal rights. Cromwell had "gotten
possession of the government," and, expressed a willingness
"to rule according to the laws of the land," -by "red gowns
rather than red coats," as e is reported to have quaintly remarked. And this Hale thought justified him in acting as a
judge. (Hale's Hist. of the Com. Law, p. 14, Preface.) For a
like reason, though the power of Cromwell was soon after overturned, and Charles the Second. restored, the judicial decisions
under the former remained unmolested on -this account, and
the judiciary went on as before, still looking only to the de
facto government for the time being. Grotius virtually holds
the like doctrine. (B. 1, ch. 4, sec. 20, and B. 2, ch. 13,
sec. 11.), Such was the case, likewise, over most of this country, after the Declaration of Independence, till the acknowledg,
ment of it 'by England in 1783. (3 Story's Com. on Const.,
§ 214, 215.) And such is believed to have been the course
inFrance under all her dynasties and r'dimes, during the last
half-century.
These conclusions are strengthened by the circumstance, that
the Supreme Court of Rhode Island, organized since, under the
second new constitution, has adopted this principle. In numerous instances, this court h& considered itself bound to follow
the decision of the State tribunals on their own constitutions
and laws. (See cases in Smith v. Babcock, 2 Woodb. & Min.;
5 Howard, 139; Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 159; Bank
of U. States v.Daniel et al., 12 Peters, 32.) .This, of course,
relaths to their validity when not overruling any defence set up
under the authority of the United States. None such was
set up in the trial of Dorr, and yet, after full hearing, the Supreme Court of Rhode Island decided that the old charter and
its legislature were the political poweis which they were bound
to respect; and the only ones legally in force at the time of this
transaction; and accordingly convicted and punished the governor chosen under the new constitution for treason, as being
technically committed, however pure may have been his political designs or private character. (Report of Dorr's Trial,
1844, pp. 130, 131.) The reasons for this uniform compliance
by us with State. decisions made before ours on their own laws
and'constitutions, and not appealed from,.are given by Chief
Justice Marshall with much clearness. It is only necessary
to refer to his langiiage in Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 159.
Starting, then, as we are forced to here, wiih several politic'al
quiestions arising on this rdrord, and those .settiled by political
tribunals in the State 'and general g6vernment, and whose
decisions on them we.possess no constitutional authority to
revise, all- which. apiparently, in' leftI for us to decide is the

JANUARY TERM,

1849.

Luther v. Borden et al.

other point, - whether the statute establishing martial aW
over the whole State, and under which the apts done by the
defendants are sought to be justified, can be deemed constitutional.
To decide a point like this last is clearly within judicial
cognizance,- it being a matter of private personal authority
and right, set up by the-defendants under constitutions and
laws, and not of political power, to act in relation to the mak.
ing of the former.
Firstly, then, in order to judge properly whether this act of
Assembly was constitutional, let us see what was the kinc-ahd
character of the law the Assembly intended, in this instance,
to establish, and under which the respondents profess to have
acted.
The Assembly says - "The State of Rhode Island and
Providence Plantations is hereby placed under martial law, and
the s~xe is hereby declared to be in full force until otherwiseordered by the General Assembly, or suspended by prqclamation
-of his Excellency the 'Govenor of the State."
Now, .the
words "martial law," as here- used, cannot be construed-in any
other than their legal sense, long known and recognized in legal
-precedents as well as political history.. (See it in 1 Hallam's.
Const. Hist., ch. 5i p. 258; 1 MacArthur on Courts-Martial, 33.
The legislature evidently, meant to be understood in that
sense by using words of such well-settled constructi6n, without any limit or qualification, and covering the whole State
with its influence, under a supposed exigency and justification for such an unusual course. I do not understand" this
to be directly combated in the opinion -just delivered by
the Chief Justice. That they could mean no other than the
ancient martial law often used before the Petition of Right,
and sometimes since, is further manifest from the fact, that
they not only declared "martial" law to exist over the
State, but put their militia 3uto the field to help, by means
.of them and such a law, to suppress the'action of tiose
denominated "insurgents," and this without any subordination to the civil.power, or any efforts in conjunction and in
co~peiation.with it.- The -defendants do not aver the existence of any civil precept which they were aiding civil officers
to execute, but. set up merely military orders under martial
law. Notwithstanding this, however, some attempts have
been made at another cdnstruction of this act, somewhat less
offensive, by considering it. a mere equivalent to the suspension of the habeas copuus, and. 'another still to regard it asxefenfing only to the military code used in the armies of tha
United States and England. But when the legislature enacted

SUPREME' COURT.
Luther v. Borden et aL

such a system "as martial law," what right have -we to say.
that they .intended to establish something else and something
entirely different ? A suspension, for'instance, of the writ of'
habeas corpus, -- a thing not only. unnamed by them, but
wholly unlike and far-short, in every view, of what they both
said and did? Because they not only said, eo nomine, that
they established "martial law," but they put in operation its
principles;' principles not relating merely to imprisonment, like
the suspension of the habeas corpus, but forms of arrest without warrant, breaking into houses where no offenders were
found, and acting exclusively under military otders rather than
civil precepts.
Had the legislature meant merely to suspend the' writ of
habeas corpus, they, of course, would have said that, and nothing more. A brief examination will show, also, that they did
not thus intend'to put in fo.rce merely some modem military.
code, such as.the Articles of War made by Congress, or those under the Mutiny Act in England. - They do not mention, either,
and what is conclusive on this, neither would cover or protect
them, in applying the provisi6ns of those laws to a person situated!like the plaintiff. For nothing is better settled than that
military law applies only to the military; but "martial law"
is made here to apply to all. '(Hough on Courts-Martial, 384,
note 27 Siate Trials, 625, in Theobald Wolfe Tone's case.)
The present laws for the government of the military in England, also, do not exist in the vague and general form of.martial law, but are expliditly restricted -to the .military, and are
allowed as to them only to prevent desertion and mutiny, and
to pre.serve good discipline. (1 Bl. Com. 412; 1 MacArthur on
Courts-Mlartial, p. 20.) So, in,
this comtry, legislation as to the
military is usually confined to the.general government, where
the great powers-of war and peace reside. And. hence, under
those powers, Congress, by the act of 1806 (2 Stat. at Large,
359), has created the Articles of War, "by which the armies of
the United States shall be governed," and the militia when in
actual service, and only they. To show this is not the law
by which other than those armies shall be governed, *t has
been found necessary,*in order to include merely the diivers
-or artificers "in the service," and the militia after mus-'ered
into it, to have special statutory sections. (See articles 96 and
97.) Till mustered-together, even the militia are not subject
to martial law. (5 Wheat. 20; 3 Stor. Com. Const., § 120.) .
And whenever an attempt is made to embrace others. in its
operation not belonging to the military or militia, nor having
ever agreed to the rules of the service, well may they say, we
have not entered into such bonds, -in htvc vincult, non veni.

JANUARY TER3%M

1849.

61

Luther v. Borden et *L

(2 Hen. B1. 99; 1 Bi. Com. 408, 414: 1D.-& E. 493, 550, 784;
27 State Trials, 625.) Well may tbley exclaim, as in Magna
Charta, that "no freeman shall be taken or imprisoned but by
the lawful judgment of his-equals, or by-the law of the land."
There is no pretence "that this plaintiff, the person attempted
to be arrested by the violence exercised here, was a soldier or
militia-man then mustered into the service of the United States,
or of Rhode Island, or subject by its laws to be so employed,
or on that account sought to be seized. He could not, therefore, in this view of the case, be arrested under this limited
and different kind of military law, nor houses be broken into
for that purpose and by that authority.
So it is a settled principle even in England, that, "under the
British constitution, the military law does in no respect either
supersede or interfere with the civil law of -the realm," and
that "the former is in general subordinate to the latter"
(Tytler on Military Law, 365); while "niartial law" overiides them all. The Articles of War, likewise, are not only
authorized by permanent .rather than temporary legislation,
but they are prepared by or under it with punishments and
rules before promulgated, and known and assented to by those
few. who are subject to them, as operating .under established
legal principles and the customary military law of. modem
times. (1East, 306, 313; Pain'v. Willard, 12 Wheat. 539, and
also 19; 1 MacArthur, Courts-Martial, 13 and 215.) They are
also definite in the extent of authority under them as to subject-matter as well as persons, as they regulate and restrain
within more safe limits the jurisdiction to be used, and recog-.
nize and respect the civil rights of those not subject to it, and
even of those who are, in all other matters than what are military and placed under military cognizance. (2 Stephen on
Laws of Eng. 602; 9.Bac. Abr., Soldier, F-; Tytler on Military
Law, 119.) And as a further proof how rigidly the civil power
requires the military to confine even the modified code martial
to the military, and to what are strictly military niatters, it cannot, without liability to a private suit in the judicial tribunals,
be exercised on a soldier himself for a cause not military, or
over which the officer had no right 'to order him; as, for example, to attend school, instruction, or pay an assessment towards it out of his wages. (4 Taunt. 67; 4 Maule & Selw.
400; 2 HeA. Bl. 103, 537: 3 Cranch, 337; 7 Johns. 96.)
The prosecution of Governor Wall in. England, for causing,
when he was in military command, a soldier to be seized and
flogged so that he died, for. an imputed offence not clearly military. and by a pretended court-martial without' a full trial, and
executing Wall for -the .offence after a lapse of twenty years,
voL. VIZ.
6

,62

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden .et' al.

illustrate how jealously the exercise of any martial power is
watched in England, though in the army itself and on its own
members. (See Annual Register for 1802, p. 569; 28 State
Trials,
52, Howell's
ed.).
S'How p.different
in its essence
and forms, as well as subjects,
from the Articles of War was the "martial law" established
here over the, whole people of Rhode Island, may 'be seen by
adverting to its character for a moment, as described in judicial
as well as political history. It exposed the whole population,
not only to be seized without warrant or oath, and their houses
broken open and rifled, and .this where the municipal law and
its officers and courts remained undisturbed and able to punish
all offences, but. to send prisoners, thus summarily arrested in a
civil strife, to all the' harsh pains and penalties of courts-martial
or extraordinary commissibns, and for all kinds of supposed offences. By it, every citizen, instead of reposing under the shield
of known and :fixed law as to his liberty, property, and life,
exists 'with a rope round his neck, subject to be hung up by a.
military despot at the next lamp-post, under the sentence of
some drum-head court-martial. (See Simmons's Pract. of CourtsMartial, 40.) See such a trial'in Hough on Courts-Martial, p83,
where thp victim on the spot was "blown away by a gun,"
"neither tiniie, place; nor persons considered." As an illustration how the passage of such a law may be abused, Queen Mary
put it in force in 1558, by proclamation merely, and declared,
"that whosoever had in his possession any heretical, treasonable,
or seditious books, and did not presently burn them, without
reading them or showing them to any other person, should be
esteemed a rebel, and without any further delay be executed by
the martial law." (Tytler on Military Law, p. 50, ch. 1, see 1.)
For convincing reasons like these, in every country which
makes any claim to political or civil liberty, "martial law," as
here attempted and as once practised in England against her
own people, has been expressly forbidden there for -near two
centuries, as well as by the principles of every other free constitutional government. '(1 Hallam's Const. Hist. 420.) And it
would be not a little extraordinary, if the spirit of our institututions, both State and national, was not much stronger than in
England against the unlimited exercise of martial law'over a
whole people, whether attemptid by any chief magistrate or
even by a legislature.
It is true, and fortunate it is that true, the consequent actual
evil in this instance from' this declaration of martial law was
smailer than might have been naturally, anticipated. But we
'must be thankful for this, not to the harmless character of the
law itself, but rather to an inability to arrest many, or from the

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

.

63

Luther'v. Borden et al.

small opposition in arms, and its short continuance, or from the
deep jealousy and -rooted' dislike generally in this country to
any approach to the reign of a mere -military despotism. 'Unfortumately, the legislature had probably heard of this measure
in history, and even at out Revolution, as used by some of the
British generals against those considered rebels; and, in the
confusion and hurry of the crisis, seem to have rushed into it
suddenly, and, I fear, without a due, regard to private rights, or
their own- constitutional powers,.or the supervisory authority
'of the general government over wars and rebellions.
Having ascertained the kind and character of the martial
law established by this act of Assembly in Rhode Island, we
ask next,-how, under the general principles of American juris.prudence in modern times, such a law can properly exist, or be
judicially upheld. A brief retrospci of the gradual, but decisive, repudiation of it in England will exhibit many of the reasons why such a law cannot be rightfully tolerated anywhere
in this country.
One object of Parliamentary inquiry, as early as 1620, was
to check the abuse of martial law by the king which had prevailed before. (Tytler on Military Law, 502.) The Petition
of Right, in the irst year of Charles the - First, reprobated all
such arbitrary proceedings in-the just terms and in the terse
language of that 'great patriot as well as judge, Sir Edward
Coke, and prayed they might be stopped aid never repeated.
To this the king wisely replied, - 1"1Soit droit fait come est
desire, -Let right be done as desired." (Peditionof Right, in
- Statutes at Large, 1 Charles 1.)
Putting it in force by the
king alone was not only restrained by the Petition of Right
early in.the seventeenth century, but virtually denied as lawful by the Declaration of Rights in 1688. (Tytler on Military
Law, 307.) Hallam, therefore, in his Constitutional History, p.
420, declares that its use by "the commissions to try military
offenders by martial law :was a procedure necessary- within
certain limits to the discipline of an army, bt unwarranted
by the constitution of this country." Indeed, a distinguished
English .judge has since said, that "martial law," as of old,
now "does not exist in England at all," "was contrary to the
constitution, and has been for a century totally exploded."
(Grant v. Gould, 2 Hen. B. 69 ; 1 Hale, P. C. 346 ; Hale, Com.
Law, ch. 2, p. 36; 1 MacArthur, 55.) This is broad enough, and
is correct as to the-community generally in both war and peace.
No-question can exist as to the correctness of this doctrine in
time of peace.- The Mutiny Act itself, for the government of
the army, in 36 Geo. 3, -ch. 24, see. 1, begins by reciting
"Whereas, no man can be foreju.lged of life or. limb, or sub-

64

SUPREME COURT.
Luther.v. Borden et-al.

jected in time of.peace to any punishment within the realm by
martial law." (Simmons's Pract. of Courts-Martial, 38.),
Lord Coke says, in 3 Inst. 52: - " If a lieutenant, or other
that hath commission. of martial authority in time of peace,
hang or -otherwise execute any man by color of martial law,
this is murder." "1Thorn. Count de Lancaster, being taken in
open insurrection, was by judgment of martial law put to
death," and this, though during an insurrection, was adjudged
to be murder, because done in time of peace, and while the
courts of law were open. (I Hallam's Const. Hist. 260.) The
very first Mutiny Act, therefore, under William the Third, was
cautious to exonerate all subjects except the military from any
punishmient by martial law. (Tytler on Military taw, 19,
note.) In this manner -it has become gradually established in
England, that in peace the occurrence of civil strife does not
justify individuals or the military or the king in using martial
law over the people..
It appears, also, that nobody has dared to exercise it, in
war or peace, on the, community at large, in England, for the
last century and a half, unless specially enacted by Parliament.
in some great exigency and under various restrictions, and ther
under the theory, not that it is consistent with bills of rights
and constitutions, but that Parliament is omnipotent, and for
sufficient cause may override and trample on them all, tempe
rarily.
After the civil authorities have become prostrated in particular places, and the din of arms has teached the most advanced
stages of intestine commotions, a Parliament which alonefurnishes the means of war - a Parliament unlimited in its -powers
-has,
in extremis, -on two or 'three dccasions, ventured on
martial law beyond the military; but it has.usually confined it
to the particular places thus situated, limited it to the continuance of such resistance, and embraced in its scope. only those
actually in arms. Thus the "Insurrection Act " -of November.
1796, for Ireland, passed by the Parliament of England, extended only to let magistrates put people "out of the king's
peace," and subject to military arrest, under certain circumstances. - Even then, though authorized by Parliament, like
the general government here, and not a State, it is through the
means of the civil magistrate, and a clause of indemnity goes
with it against prosecutions in the "king's ordinary courts of
law." (Annual Regi-ter, p. 173, for A. D. 1798; 1 MacArthur, Courts-Martial, 34.) See also the cases of the invasions
by- the Pretender in 1715 and 1746, and of the Irish rebellion
in 1798. (Tytler on Military Law, 48,-49, 369, 370, App.
No. 6, p. 402, the ,act passed by the Irish. Parl.; Simmons's

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

65

Luther v. Borden et al.

Practice of Courts-Martial, App. 633.) When speaking-of the
absence of other and sound precedents to justify such martial
law in modern times here, I am aware that something of the
kind may have been attempted in some of the doings of the British Colonial governors towards this country at the-Revolution.
-In the Annual Register for 1775, p. 133, June 12th, it may
be seen that General Gage issued his proclamation, pardoning
all who would submit, except Samuel Adams and John Hancock, and further declaring., "that, as a stop was put to the due
course of justice, martial law should take place till the laws
were restored to their due efficacy."
Though the engagements at Lexington and Concord happened on the 19th of April, 1775, though Parliament had in
February previous declared the Colonies to be in a state of rebellion (Ibid., p. 247), and though thousands of militia, had
assembled near Bunker Hill before the 12th of June, no martial law had been established by Parliament, land not till that
day did General Gage, alone and unconstitutionally, undertake,
in the language of our fathers, to "supersede the course of the
common law, and, instead thereof, to publish and order the use
and exercise of martial law." (Ibid., p. 261 ; Journal of Old
Cong., 147, a declaration on 6th July, 1775, drawn up by J.
Dickenson.)
Another of these outrages was by Lord Dunmore, in Virginia,.
November 7th-, 1775, not only declaring all the slaves of rebels
free,.but "declaring martial law to be enforced throughout this
Colony."
(Annual Register for 1775, p. 28; 4 American
Archives, 74.) This was, however, justly denounced by the
Virginia Assembly as an "assume d power, which the king himself cannot exercise," as it "annuls the law of the land and introduces the most execrable of all systems, miartial law." (4
American Archives, 87.) It was a returni to the unbridled despotism of the Tudors, which, as already shown, one to two
hundred years before, had been accustomed, in peace as well as
war, to try not only soldiers under it, but others, and by courtsmartial rather than civil tribunals, and by no settled laws instead of the municipal code, and for civil offences no -less than
military ones. (2 Hen. BL. 85; 3 Instit. 52; Stat. at Large,
1 Charles 1 ; Tytler on Military Law, passim.)
Having thus seen that "martial law ";like this, ranging
over a whole people and State, was not by our fathers considered proper at all in peace or during civil strife, and that, in the
country from which we derive most of our jurisprudence, the
king has long been forbidden to put it in force in war or peace,
and that Parliament never, in the most extreme cases of rebellion, allows it, except as being sovereign and unlimited in power,
6*

46

SUPREME. COURT.
Luther v. Borden et aL

and under peculiar restrictions, the, next inquiry is, whether the
legislature of Rhode Island could, looking to her peculiar ituaation as to a constitution, rightfully establish such -a law under
the circuimstagices existing there in 1842.' And., to meet this
question broadly, whether she could do it, regarding those circumstances, first, as constituting peace, andnext, as amounting
to war. In examining this, I shall refrain from discussing the
points agitated at the bar, whether, the uld charter under which
it took place was a wise one for a republic, or whether the
acts of the legislature rendering it so highly penal to resort to
peaceful measures to form or put into operation a new constitution without their consent, and e6tablishing "martial law"
to suppress them, were characterized by the humanity and the
civilization of the present, age towards their own fellow-citizens. But I shall merely inquire, first, whether'it was within
the constitutional power of that legislature to pass such a law
as this during peace, or, in other words, before any lawful and
competerit declaration of war; leaving all questions of mere
exediency, as belongini; to the States themselves rather than
the judiciary, and being one of the last persons to treat any of
them with disrespect, or attempt to rob them of any legitimate
power.
At the outset it is to be' remembered, that, if Parliament now
exercises such a power occasionally, it is only under various
limitations and restrictions, not attended to in this case, and
only because the power of Parliament is by the English constitution considered as unlimited or omnipotent. But hce
legislative bodies, no less than the ex:ecutive and judiciary, are
Vsually not regarded as bmnipotent. They are in this coun-try now limited in their powers,- and placed under strong prohibitions and checks. (8 Wheat. 88; 3 Smedes & Marshal],
673.)
This court has declared that " the legislatures are the creatures of the Constitution. They owe their existence to the
Constitution. They derive their powers from the Constitution.
it is their commission, and therefore all their acts must be
conformable to it, or else they will be -void." (Yanhorne's
Lessee, v. Dorrance, 2 Dall. 308; Yattel, ch. 3, sec. 34.) In
most -of our legislatures, also, as in Rhode Island in A. D. 1798,
by a fundamental l-tw, there has been incorporated into their
constitutions prohibitions t8, make searches for papers or persons witlfSut a due warrant, and to try for offences except by
indictment,, unless 'in cases arising in the army or navy or
militia themselves.
The genius -ofour liberties holds in abhorrence all irregular
inroads upon the dwelling-houses and persons of the citizen,

JANUA'RY TERM, 1849.

67

Luther v. Borden et al.

and with a wige jealousy regards them as sacred, except when
assailed in the established and allowed forms of municipal law.
Three of the amendments to the Constitution of the United
States were adopted, under such influences, to guard against
abuses of power in those -modes by the general government,
and evidently to restrict even -a modified "martial law" to
cases happening among military men, or the militia when in
actual service. For one of them, amendment fourth, expressly
provides, that "the right of the people to be secured in their
persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable
searches and seizures, shall not be violated; -and no warrants
shall issue but upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and particulrly describing the place to be searched, and
the persons or things to be seized." The others are amendments third and fifth. And who could hold- for a moment,
when the writ of habeas corpus cannot be suspended by the
legislature itself, either in the general government or most of
the States, without an express constitutional permission, that
all other'writs and' laws could be suspended, and martial law
substituted for them over the whole State or country, without
any express constitutional license to that effect, in any emergency? Much more is this last improbable, when even the
mitigated measure, the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus, has never yet been found *proper by Congress, and, it is
believed, by neither of the States, since the Federal Constitution was adopted. (3 Story's Com. on Const., § 1325.)
Again, the act of June 24th, 1842, as an act of legislation by
Rhode Island, was virtually forbidden by the express declaration of principles made by the Rhode Island Assembly in
1798, and also by the views expressed through the delegates
of their people upon adopting the Federal Constitution, 'June
16th, 1790. These may be seen in I Elliott's Deb: 370, declaring, in so many words, "that every person has a-right to be
secure from all unreasonable searches and seizures of his person, his papers, or his property," and warrants to search without oath and seizures by general warrant are "oppressive,"
'and '' ought not to be granted."
But as these views were expressed in connection with the
constitution of the general government, though- avowed to be
the principles of her people generally, and as the doings in
1798 were in the form of a law, and not a constitution;'it was
sfibject to suspension or repeal; and hence it will be n#cessary
to-look into the charter to Rhode Island of 1663, her only State
ronstitution till 1842, to see if there be any limitation in that
to legislation like this, establishing martial law.
So far from that charter, royal as it was in origin, permitting

68

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al. -

an unlimited authority in the legislature, it will be found expressly to forbid any laws "contrary and: repugnant unto"
"the laws- of this our realm of England," and to require them
to be, "as near as may be, agreeable" to those laws. (See
Document, p. 12.)
• This, so far from countenancing the establishment of martial
law in Rhode Island, contrary to the Petition of Right in England and her Bill of Rights,.regulated it by the same restrictions,
"as near as may be." Nor did our Revolution of A. D. 1776
remove that restraint, so far as respects- what was then the
body of English laws. For although Rhode Island .chose. to
retain that charter with this restriction after the Revolution, and
made no new constitution with other limitations till 1842 or
1843, yet probably "the laws of England" forbidden to be
violated by her legislature must be considered such as existed
-hen the charter was, granted in 1663, and as continued down
to 1776. After that, her control over this country de jure
ceasing, a -conformity to any new laws made would not 'be
required. But 'retaining the charter as the sole guide and
limit to her legislature until she formed a new constitution; it
seems clear that her legislature had no right, on the 25th of
June, 1842, to put the whole State under martial law by any
act of Parliament in force in England in 1663 or in 1776, because none such was then in force there, nor by any clause
whatever in her charter, as will soon be shown, nor by any
usages in her history, nor by any principles which belong to
constitutional, governments or the security of public liberty.
.To remove all doubt on this subject, the 'charter does expresslyallow "martial law" in one way and case to be declared, and thus impliedly forbids it in any other. .Expressio
unius est exclasio alterius. But so far 'from, the martial law
allowed by it being by permission of the legislature and over
the whole State, it was to be declared only in war waged
against a public enemy, and then by the "military officer"
appointed to command the troops so engaged; and then not
over their whole territory and all persons and cases, but he
was to "use and exercise the law martial in such cases only
as occasion shall necessarily require." (p. 15.)
Even this power, thus limited, as before shown, related to
the troops of the State, and those liable to serve among them
in an exigency, and when in arms against an enemy. They
did not touch opponents, over whom they could exercise only
the municipal laws if non-combatants, and only the law of
nations and belligerent rights when in the field, and after war
or rebellion is recognized as existing by the proper authorities. Agaiii, it would be extraordinary indeed if in England

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

69

Luther v. Borden et aL

the king himself is restrained by Magna Charta and by the
Petition as well as Declaration of Rights, binding him to these
limits against martial law since the Revolution of 1688 (4 B1.
Com. 440; 2 Peters, 656); and yet he could grant a charter
which should exonerate others from the obligations of Magna
Oharta and the general laws of the kingdom, or that they
could be exonerated under it as to the power of legislation, and
do what is against the whole body of English laws since the
end of the *sixteenthcentury, and what Parliament itself, in its
omnipotence and freedom from restrictions, has never, in the
highest emerg6ncies, thought it proper to do without numerous
limitations, regulations, and indemnities, as before explained.
I Beside this, it may well be doubted whether, in the nature
of the legislative power in this country, it can be considered as
anywhere rightfiflly :authorized, any -more than the executive,
to suspend or abolish the whole securities of person and property at its pleasure;. and whether, since the Petition of Right
was granted, it has not been- considered as unwarrantable for
any British or American legislative body, not omnipotent in
theory like Parliament, to establish in a whole country an unlimited reign of martial law over its whole population; and
whether to do this is not breaking up the foundations of all
sound municipal rule, no less than iocial order, and restoring
the reign of the strongest, and making mere physical force the
test of right.
All our social usages and political education, as well as our,
constitutional checks, are the other way. It would be alarming
enough to sanction here an unlimited power, exercised either
by legislatures, -or the executive, or courts, when all our governments are themselves governments of limitations and checks,
and of fixed and known laws, and the people a race above all
others jealous of encroachments by those in power. And it is
far better that those persons should be without the protection
of the ordinary laws- of the land who disregard them in an
emergency, and should look to a grateful country fr indemnity
and pardon, than to allow, beforehand, the whole frame of
jurisprudence to be overturned, and every thing placed at the
mercy'of the bayonet.
No tribunal or department in our system of governments
ever can be lawfully authorized to-dispense With the laws, like
some of the tyrannical Stuarts, or to repeal, or abolish, or suspend the whole body of them; or, in other words, appoint an
unrestrained military dictator at the head of armed rrien.
Whatever stretches of such power may be ventured on in
great crises, they cannot be upheld by the laws, as they prostrate the laws and ride triumphant over and beyond them,

70

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

-

however the Assembly of Rhode Island, under the exigency,
may have hastily supposed that such a measure in this instance was constitutional. It is but a branch of the omnipotence claimed by Parliament to pass bills of attainder, belonging to the same dangerous and arbitrary familkr with martial
law. But even those have ceased to succeed in England
under the lights of tle nineteenth century, and are expressly
forbidden by the Federal Constitution; and"neither ought ever
to disgrace the records of any free government. Such laws
(and martial law is only still baser and more intolerable than
bills of attainder) Mr. Madison denounces, as " co'ntrary to the
first principles of the social compact, and to every principle of
sound. legislation." (Federalist, No. 44.)
In short, then, there was nothing peculiar in the condition
of Rhode Island as to a &nnstitution in 1842, which justified
her legislature in peace, more than the legislature of any other
State, to declare martial law over her *hole people; but there
was much in her ancient charter, as well as in the plainest principles of constitutional liberty, to forbid it. !Donsidering this,
then, and that some cases already cited show that domestic
violeiice is still to be regarded, not as a state of war, giving
belligerent rights, but as conferring only the powers of peace
in a State, through its civil-authorities, aided by its militia, till
thei general government interferes and recognizes the contest as
a. war, this branch of our inquiries as to martial law would end
here, upon my view of the pleadings,. because the defendants
justify under that law, and because the State legislature alone
possessed no constitutional authority to establish martial law, of
this kind and to'this extent, over her people generally, whether
in peace or civil strife. But some of the members of this court
seem to consider the pleadings broad enough to cover the justification, under some rights of war, independent of the act of
-the Assembly,. or, as the opinion just read by the Chief Justice
seems to imply, under the supposed authority of the State, in
case of domestic insurrection like this, 'to adopt an act of martial law over its whole people, or any. wtr measure deemed
necessary by its legislature for the public safety.
It looks, certainly, like pretty bold docirine in a constitutional government, that, even in time of legitimate war, the
legislature can ' properly suspend or abolish all constitutional
restrictions, as martial.law does, and lay all the personal and
political rights of the people at their feet. But bolder still is
it to justify a claim to this' tremendous power in any State,, or
in.any of its officers, on the occurrence-merely of some domestic violence.
We have already shownthat in this last event, such a claim.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

71

Luther v. Borden et al.

is entirely untenable on general principles, or by the ld charter of Rhode Island, and was denounced as unlawful by our
fathers when attempted against them at the Revolution, and
has in England been punished as murder when exercised to
k:Y. one, though taken in open ams in an insurrection. (See
cases, ante.)
• The judgment which the court has pronouuced in this case
seems to me, also, to be rested, not on any right of this kind in
peace, but, on the contiary, to uphold the act of martial law
only as a war measure. But the grounds have not been shown,
to my conviction, for supposing that war and war measures,
and the rights of war, existed legally in Rhode Island when
this act passed. And, finally, it seems to me that the insurrection then existing was not in a stage of progress which
would justify any mere belligprent rights; but if any, it -,as
such rights in the general government, and not in the legislature of the State, obtained, too, by mere implication, and, as to
so formidable a measure as this, operating.so loosely and recklessly over all its own citizens.
It is admitted that fno war had duly been declared to exist,
either by Rhode Island or the United States, at the time this
war measure was adopted, or when the trespass under .it was
committed. Yet, had either wished to exercise any war
powers, their would have been legalized in our political system,
not by Rhode Island, but the general government. (Constit.,
Art. 1, sec. 8; 3 Story's Com. on" Const., §§ 215, 217'; 1 B1.
Com. by Tucker, App., p. 270.)
* It may note be useless to refresh our minds a little on this
subject. ' The Constitution expressly provides that "the Congress shall have power to declare war." (Art. 1, sec. 8.) This
is not the States, nor the President, and much less the legislature
of a State. Nor is it foreign war alone that Congress is to declare, but "war,"-war of any kind existing legitimately
or according to the law of nations. Because Congress alone,
and not the States, is invested with power to use the great
means ior all wars, -" to raise and support armies," "to
provide and maintain a navy," "to provide for calling forth
the militia to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections, and -repel invasions," and "to prbvide for organizing,
arming, and 'disciplining the militia." The largest powers of
taxation, too, were conferred on Congress at the same time,
and in part for this cause, with authority to borrow money on
the credit of the Union, and to dispose of the public lands.
But the States, deprived of these means, were at the same time
.properly relieved from the duty of carrying on'war themselves,
civil or foreign, because they were not required to incur ex-

72

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

penses to suppress even "dome s t ic violence,"' or "insurrections," or "rebellions."
By a provision, (sec. 4, art. 3,) "the
United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a
republican forni of government, and shall protect e'ach of them
against invasion, and, on application of the legislature (or of the
executive when the legislature cannot .be convened), against
domestic violence." This exclusiveness of the war power in
Congress in all cases, aomestic or foreign, is confirmed, too, by
another authority given to Congress, not only to organize and
discipline the militia, no less than to have regular armies and
navies, but-"to provide for, calling forth the militia" "to sup-.
press insurrections.?' (See. 8, art, 1.) And lest it might be
argued that this power to declare war and raise troops and
navies Was not exclusive. in the general government, a.is the
case with some other grants to it deemed concurrent, about
weights and measures, bankrupt laws, &c.. (see cases cited in
Boston v. Norris, post, 283), the reasons for this grant as to war,
and an express prohibition on the States as to it, both show
the power to be exclusive in Congress. Thus, the reasons as
to the power itself are cogent for having it exclusive only in
one body, in order to prevent the: numerous and,sudden hostilities and bloody outbreaks in :which the country might be involved, with their vast. expenses, if thirty States could each
declare and wage war under its own impulses. (1 BI. Com.
by Tucker, App., p. 270.) And, to: remove all doubt on
that point, the Constitufion, proceeded expressly to provide
in another clause a prohibition on the States (sec. 10, art. 1),
-that
"no State shall, without the consent of Congress,"
"keep troops or ships of war in 'time of peace," "or engage in
war, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent danger as
will not admit of delay."
This accorded with the sixth and ninth articles of the old
Confederation, which vested in it'exclusively the power to declare war, and took the power of waging it from the States,
unless in case of sudden attacks by Indians or pirates, or uless
actually invaded by enemies, or in such imminent danger of it
that time cannot be had to consult Congress.. (I Laws of
U. S., 15, 16, Bioren's ed.)
No concurrent or subordinate 'power is,therefore, left to the
States on this subject, except by occasional and special consent
of Congress, which is not' pretended to have been given -to
Rhode Island; or unless "actually invaded "1 by some enemy,
which is not pretended here; or unless "in such imminent
danger as will not admit of delay," which "matifesly, refers to
danger from a foreign .enemy threatening invasion ; or from Indians and piiates. Another circumstance to prove this, beside

JANUARY TERM, 1849.
Luther v. Borden et al.

the language itself being used in connection -with foreign invasions and the danger of them, and. not insurrections, is the like
clauses in the old Confederation being thus restricted. One of
those (article 9th) declares that "the United States in Congress
assembled shall have the sole and exclusive right and power
of determining on peace and war, except in the cases mentioned in the sixth article." (1 Laws of U. S., 16, Bioren's ed.)
And the sixth article, after providing against foreign embassies,
troops, and vessels of war by a State, addQ: - " No State shall
engage in 'ny war uthless such State be actually invaded by
enemies, or shall have received certain advice of a resolution
being formed by some nation of Indians to invade such State,
and the danger is so imminent as not to admit of delay till the
United States in Congress assembled can be consulted." Nor,
by an additional provision, could a State grant commissions to
ships of war or letters of marque, "except it be after a declaration of war by the United States," and only against the kingdom or state agaijist whom.the war had been declared, "unless
such State be infested by pirates, in which case vessels of war
may be fitted for that occasion," &c. (1 Laws of U. S., 15,
Bioren's ed.)
It is impossible to mistake the intention in these provisions,
and to doubt that substantially the same intention was~embodied by restrictions in the present Constitution, similar in
terms, though not entering into so great details. What is,
however, decisive as to this intent in the Constitution is the
action on it by the second Congress, only a few years after,.
and of which some were members who aided in framing theConstitution itself. That Congress, May 2d, 1792, authorized;
force to be used by the President to aid in repelling the invasions here referred to in the Constitution, and they are described in so many words, as "shall be invaded, or be in imminent;
danger of invasion from aiy foreign nation or Indian tribe."
(1 Stat. at Large, 264.) So again .in the act of Feb. 28, 1795
(1 Stat. at Large, 424), and still further sustaining this view,
the power to aid in suppressing insurrections in a State is given
in a separate section, showing that they were not deemed the
invasions and the. "imminent danger" of them' expressed in
different sections of the act of Congress as well as of the Constitution. If, however, this "imminent danger" could, by any
stretch of construction, be consicered broader, it did not exist
here so as to prevent "delay " in applying to the 'Presidentfirst; because, in truth, before martial law was declared, time
had existed to mak6 application to Congress and the President,
and both had declined to use greater force, or to declare war,
and the judicial tribunals of the State were still unmolested in
VOL. VH.

7

74

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et aI.

their course. Besides this, at the time of the trespass complained of here, the few troops which had before taken up arms
for the new constitution had been disbanded, and all further
violence disclaimed.
Whoever, too, would justify himself under an exception in a
law or constitution, must. set it up and bring his case within it,
neither of which is attempted here as to this exception; but
the justification is; on the contrary, under this head, placed by
-the defendant and the court on the existence of war, and rights
consequent on its existence.
Some mistake has arisen here, probably, from not adverting
to the circumstance, that Congress alone can declare war, and
that all other conditions of violence are regarded by the Constitution as but 6rdinary cases of private outrage, to be punished
by prosecutions in the courts; or as insurrections, rebellions, or
domestic violence, to be put down by the civil authorities,
aided by the militia; or, when these prove incompetent, by
the general government, when appealed to by a State for
aid, and, matters appear to the general government to have
reached the extreme stage, requiring more force to sustain the
civil tribunals of a State, or requiring a declaration of war, and
the exercise of all its extraordinary rights. Of these last, when
applied to as here, and the danger has not been so imminent as
to prevent an application, the general government must be the
judge, and the general gQvernment is responsible for the consequences. And when it is asked, what shall a State do, if the
general government, when applied to, refrains to declare war
till a domestic force becomes very formidable, I reply, exert
all her civil power through her judiciary and executive, and if
these fail, sustain them by her militia, co6perating, and not independent, and if these fail, it is quite certain that the general
government will never hesitate to strengthen the arm of the
State when too feeble in either of these modes to preserve
public order. And how seldom this will be required of the
general government, or by means of war, may be seen by -our
unspotted, unbroken experience of this kind, as to the States,
for half a century, and by the obvious facts, that nQ oc,. tsion
can scarcely ever, in future, arise for such interference, t-'hen
the violence, at the utmost, must usually be from a minory of
one State, and in the face of the larger power of the majority
within it, and of the coiperation, if need be, of the whole of
the. rest of the Union.
I Carry these constitutional provisions with us, and the facts
which have existed, that there had been no war declared
by Congress, no actual invasion of the State by a foreign
enemy, no imminent danger of it, no emergency of any kind,

JANUARY

TEAtM, 1-849.

75

Luther v. Borden et &l.

which prevented time or delay to apply to the general governi.
ment, and remember that, in this stage of things, Congress omitted or declined to do any thing, and that the President also declined to consider a civil violence or insurrection as existing so
as to justify his ordering out troops to suppreis it. The State,
then, in and of itself, declared martial law, and the defendants
attempted to enforce it. In such a condition of things, I am
not prepared to say that the authorities of a State alone can
exercise the rights of war against their own citizens;, persons,
too, who, it is to be remembered, were for many purposes at
the same time under the laws and protection of the general
government. On the contrary, it seems very obvious, -as before suggested, that in periods of oivi commotion the first and
wisest and only legal measure to test the -rights of perties and
sustain the public peace under threatened violence is-to appeal
to the laws and the judicial tribunals. When these are obstructed or overawed, the militia is next to'be ordered-out, but
only to strengthen the civil power in enforcing its processes and
upholding the laws. Then, in extreme cases, another assistance is resorted to in the suspension of the writ of.habeas corpus. And, finally, if actual force, exercised in the field against
those in battle array and not able to be subdued in any other
manner, becomes necessary, as qvasi war, -whetheragainst a foreign foe or rebels, it must first, as to the former, be declared by
Congress, or recognized and allowed by it as to the latter, under the duty. of the United States "to protect each of them
against invasion" and "against domestic violence." (Art. 4,
sec. 4.) When this is not done in a particular case by Congress, if then in session, it is done by the President in conformity to the Constitution (Art. 1, sec. 8) and the act of
Congress of Febuary 28th, 1795 (1 Stat. at Large, 424), "to
provide for calling forth the militia to execute the laws of the
Union, suppress insurrections, and repel invasions."
Under all these circumstances, then, to imply a power like
this declaration of martial law over a State as still lawfully
existing in its legislature would be to imply what is forbidden
by all constitutional checks, forbidden by all the usages of free
governments, forbidden by an exclusive grant of the war power
to Congress, forbidden by the fact that there were no exceptions or exigencies existing here which could justify it, and, in
short, forbidden by the absence of any necessity in our system
for a measure so danigerous and unreasonable, unless in some
great extremity, if at all, by the general government, which alone
holds the issues of war and the power and means of waging it.
Under these views and restrictions, the States have succeeded
well, thus far, - over halfa century, - in suppressing domestic
-

76

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. B~orden et al.

violence in other ways than by martial law. The State courts,
with the aid of the militia, as in Shays's rebellion and the
Western. insurrection, could, for aught which appears, by help
of the posse 6omitatus, or at least by that militia, have in this
case dispersed all opposition. They did this in both of those
instances, s'o mucli more formidable in numbers, and made no
resort to martial law. (See before, and Minot's History, 163,
178.) In one of them, not even the writ of habeas corpus was
suspended by the State, and never by the United States,
though emp6wered to do that in dangerous emergencies. (2
Kent's Com. 24; 2 Story's Coin. on Const, § 1335.) But if civil
process, aided by the militia, -should fail to quell an insurrection
'against State laws, which has never yet happened in our history, then an appeal lies, and is appropriate, to-the general govermnent foi additional force, before a resort can be had tb
supposed belligerent rights, much less to *anyexploded and-unconstitutional extremes of martial law.
As before shown, such an appeal had been made here, but
not complied with, because, I presume, the civil authority of
the State, assisted by its own militia, did not appear to have
failed to overcome the disturbance. How, then, let me ask-,
had the State here become possessed of any belligerent rights?
how could it in any way be possessed of them, at the time
6f the passage of the act declarini. martial law, or even at
the time of the trespass complained of? I am unable to discover. Congress, on this occasion, was in session- ready to
actwhen proper and as proper, and it alone could, by the Constitution, declare war, or, under the act of May 2d, 1792, allow
the militia from an adjoining State to be called out. (1 Stat.
at Large, 264.) But Congress declared no war, and conferred
no rights of war. The act of Feb.- 28th, 1795 (1 Stat. at Large,
424), seems to be made broader as to the power of the President over all the militia, and, indeed over the regular troops,
to assist on such an occasion, by another act of March 3d,
1807 (2 Stat. at Large, 443). But the President, also, did
nothing to cause or give belligerent rights to the State. He
might, perhaps, have conferred some such rights on the militia,
had he called them out, under the" consent of Congress; but it
would be unreasonable, if not absurd, to aigue that the President, rather than Congress, was thus empowered to declare
wat, or that Congress meant to construe such insurrections, and
the means used to suppress them, as wars; else Congress itself
should in each case pronounce them so, and not intrust so
dangerous a measure to mere executive discretion. But he
issued no orders or proclamations. Had he done so, and
marched, troops, through the adtion of the Executive under

JANUARY TERM, 1849

77

Luther v. Borden et.'al.

ihe standing law is not waging war, yet, I concede, it is at.
tempting to suppress domestic violence by force of arms, and
in doing it the President may possess and exert. some b6ligerent rights in some extreme stages of armed opposition. It is
-he, however, and those acting under his orders, -who, it will be
seen, may possibly then, at -times, use some such rights, and.
not the State. or its organs. Nor is it till after thec, sidnt
has interfered that such rights arise, and then they arls. .ilwr
ihe decision and laws and proceedings of the general government. Then the organs of that government have come tp the
conclusion, that the exercise of force independent of 'thle civfi'V
and State authorities has become necessary. (Fed ..ist,. No.
29.) The President has been considered the paraxrount and
final judge as to this, whether in invasion or rebellion, and not
the governors or legislatures of States. This was'ftiir 'ettQ.
during the war of 1812 with England.. (3 Stoiy's Com.' on
Const., §-120Q ; 11 Johns. 150.) He may then issue his proclamation for those in insurrection to disperse, and, if not dispersing,
he may afterwards call out the militia to aid in effecting it.
-(Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat. 30.) But not till then. do a.iy'belligerent rights exist against those even in arms, and then only by
or under him. It is a singular coincidence, that, in England, it
is held to be not "lawful" for th chief magistrate to order out
the militia in case of "rebellion and insurrection," without
"the occasion being 'first communicated to .Parliament, if sit-:
ting, and, if not sitting, published by proclamation." (1 MacArthur, 28; 12 Statutes at Large, 432, 16 George 3, ch. 3; 8
Stat. at Large, 634, sec. 116.) And here, under the act of
1793, the President himself could not call out the militia from
another State to assist without 'consulting Congress, if in.session, much less could he declare war. (1 Stat. at Large, 264,
sec. 2.)
When the President issues his orders to assemble the militia
to aid in sustaining the civil authorities of the State to enforce
the laws, or to suppress actual array and violence by counter
force, obedience to those orders by the militia then undoubtedly becomes a military duty. (12 Wheat. 31.) So in England. (8 Stat. at LargG, see. 116; 11 Johns. 150 ; 4 Burrows,
2472; 12 Johns. 257.) And a refusal to obey such a military
summons may be punished in due form, without doubt, by a
court-martial. (Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 1, 20, 35, 37;
3 Story's Com. on Coast., § 120.) When such troops, called
out by the general government, are in the field on such an occasion, what they may lawfully do to others, who are in oppo,sition, and do it by any mere belligerent rights, is a very different question. " For, now, I am examining only whether any
7:1.

78

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et a].

belligerent rights before this event existed, on the part of the
State, as matters then stood, commensurate with this strong
measure of putting martial law in force over the whole State.
The precedents, as well as the sound reasons and. principles
just.adverted to, are'all, in my view, the other way.
Under our present Constitution, the :6rst, if not nearest, precedent in history as to'the course proper to be followed, in any
State insurrection is Shays's rebellion in Massachusetts. Having occurred in 1787, before the formation of the Federal Constitution; and having been suppressed by the State alone under
its own independent authority (Minot's 1listory of Shays's
Insurrection, p. 95), it was untrammelled by any of the provisions now existing about war and insurrections in that Constitution'. But the course pursued on that occasion is full of instruction and proof as to what was deemed the legal use of the
militia by the State, when thus called out, under the old Confederation, and the extent of the rights of force, incident to a
State on a rebellion within its limits. We have before shown
that the provisions in the' old Confederation as to war, were
:much the same. in substance as in the present Constitution.
Now, in Shays's rebellion the resort was hot first had at all to
the military, but to civil power, till the courts themselves were
obstructed and put in jeopardy. And when the militia were
finally called out, the whole State, or any part of it, was not
-put under martial law. The writ of habeas corpus was merely
suspended for a limited time, and the military ordered to aid in
,making arrests under warrants, and not'by military orders, as
*here. They were directed to protect civil officers in executing
their duty, and nothing more, unless against persons'when actually in the field obstructing them. (Ibi& 101.)
The language of Governor- Bowdoin's orders to Major-General Lincoln, January 19th, 1787, shows the commendable
caution deemed legal on such an occasion :- " Consider yourself in all your military offefisive" operations constantly, as uidaer the direction of the civil officer, saving where any armed
force shall appear and oppose your marching to execute these
orders."
This gives no countenance to the course pursued on this -occasion, even had it been attempted to be justified in the pleadings as a right of war, though in a domestic insurrection, and
not yet recognized as existing so as to require countenance and
as'sistance through- the interposition of force by the general
government. Even. General Gage did not, though illegally,
venture to declare martial law in 1775 till the fact occurred,
as he averred, that the municipal laws could not be executed.
Much less was it unlikely here that these laws could not have

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

79

Luther v. Borden et al.

been executed by the civil power, or at least by that assisted
by the militia, when the judges of the Supreme Court of Rhode
Island had been appointed their own judges, and been approved
by those who were considered in an insurrectionary condition.
In substantial accordance with these views was, likewise, the
conduct of the general government in the insurrection against
its own laws in the only other case -of rebellion of much note,
except the controverted one of Burr's, in our national history.
It was in Western Pennsylvania, in 1793, and where the rebellion, or violent resistance, and even treason, as adjudged by the
courts of law in The United States v. The Insurgents of
Pennsylvania, 2 Dallas, 335, were committing against the government of the United States.
So far, however, from martial law having then been deemed
proper or competent to be declared by Congress, and enforced
anywhere, or even the writ of habeas corpus suspended, the
troops were called out .expressly to coiperate with -the civil
authorities, these having proved insufficient. (Findley's Hist.,
App. $16, 317.) Bat that of itself did not seem to be considered.
as per -se amounting to war, or as justifying war measures. The
government, therefore, neither declared war, nor waged it without that declaration, ,but did what seems most humane and fit
on such occasions, till greater resistance and bloodshed might
render war measures expedient; that is, marched the troops
expressly with a view only to "cause the laws to be duly executed."
-Nor was this done till Judge Peters, who officiated in that
district in the courts of the United States, certified that he
had issued warrants wfiich the marshal was unable to execute,
without military aid. (1 American State Papers 185.) The
acts of Congress then required such a certificate, before allowing the militia to be called out. (1 Stat. at Large, 264.) The
marshaJ also wrote, that he needed "military aid.'." (1 Am.
State Papers, 186.) The additional force, authorized by Congress, was expressly for that same purpose, as .well as to suppress such combinations. (1 Stat. at Large, 403.) And though
with these objects, so fully did it seem proper to reach this last
one by means of the first, the orders in the field were to a
like effect, and the arrests made were by authority of the
civil officers, and ihose seized were carried before- those authorities for hearing and trial. (Findley, 181.)
The -Secretary of War, likewise,, issued public orders, in
which, among other things, it is stated, that "one object of the
expedition is to assist the marshal of the district to make prisoners," &c. "The marshal of the District of Pennsylvania will
move with you and give you the names of the offenders, their

so

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

descriptions, and respective places of abode,.'Who are to be
made prisoners under criminal process." Ard so excliusively
did Congress look to the laws of the land- for a guide, that special sessions of the Circuit Court nearer the place of offence were
allowed (March 2d, 1793, 1 Stat. at Large, 334) to be called,
when necessary, to try offenders.
The President, throughout the -excitement, evinced the
characteristic moderation and prudence of Washington, constantly enjoined, a subordination of the military to the civil
power, and accompanied the troops in person to see that the
laws were respected. (Findley's. History of the Western Insurrection, p. 1.44.) "He assured us," says Findley (p. 179),
"that the army should hot consider themselves as judges or
executioners of the laws, but as employed to.support the proper
authorities in the execution of them." That he had issued orders "for the subordination of the army to the laws." (p. 181.)
This was in accordance with the course pLrsued in England
on some similar occasions. (1 MacArthur on Courts-Martial,
28.).! And though some arrests were to be made, they were to
be in a legal civil form, for he said, "Nothing remained to be
done by them but to support the civil magistrate in procuring
proper subjects to atone for the outrages that bad been committed." (Findley, 187.). The orders or warrants executed
seem to.have emanated from the federal judge of the Pennsylvania District. (pp. 200, 201, 204, ch. 16.)
The arrests in 1805 and 1806, in what is called Burr's conspiracy,' furnish another analogy and precedent. They were
not made till an oath and warrant -had issued,.eicept in.one
or two cases. And in those the prisoners were immediately discharged, as illegally arrested, as soon as writs of habeas
corpus could be obtained and. enforced. By the Constitution,
(Art. 3, sec. 9,) "the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus.shall
not be suspended unless when, in cases of rebellion or invasion,
the public safety may require it."
And Congress then declined to suspend that writ, much less
to declare martial law; even where the supposed rebellion existed. Nor was the latter done by the States, in the rebellions of
1787 and 1794, as before 'explained, but merely the writ of
habeas corpus suspended in one of them. It is further, charac.
terisitic of the jealousy of our people over. legislative action,
suspend the habeas corpus, though expressly allowed by the
'Constitution, that, after a bill to do it in 1807 seems to have
passed the Senate of the United States, through all its readings in one day, and 'with closed- doors,-the House of Representatives rejected it, on the first reading, by a vote of "113 to
9. (See the Journals of the two Houses, 25th and 27th

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

81

Luther v. Borden et al.

Jan., 1807.) And this although the bill to suspend the habeas
corpus provided it should be done only when one ischarged on
oath.with treason or misdemeanour affecting the peace of the
United States, and imprisoned by warrant on authority of the
President of the United States, or the Governor of a State or
Territory. It was not deemed prudent to suspend it, though in
that mild form, considering such a measure at the best but a
species of dictatorship, and to be justified ofily by extreme peril
to the public-safety. And Mr. Jefferson has left on record his
opinion, that it was much wiser, even in insurrections, never
.even to suspend the writ of habeas corpus.. (2 Jefferson's
Cor. and Life, 274, 291.) But what would have been thought
then of a measure of "1martial law," established over the whole
country, acting too without oath or warrant, and under no
grant by the Constitution, instead of a mere suspension of a
writ, and which suspension was permitted by the Constitution
in certain exigencies ? Again, if only to repeal or suspend the
habeas corpus requires a permissive clause in the Constitution,
how much more should the repeal or suspension of all municipal laws? Indeed, the Mutiny Act itself, as for instance that of
53 George 3, ch. 18, sec. 100, does not allow the military
to break open a house to arrest so bad a culprit as a deserter
without a warrant and under oath. (38 Stat. at Large, 97.)
So, though a rebellion may have, existed in Burr's case in
the opinion of the Executive, and troops had been ordered out
to assist in executing the laws and in' suppressing the hostile
array, this court held that an arrest by a military officer of one
coniierned in the rebellion, though ordered by the Executive,
was not valid, unless he was a person then actually engaged
in hostilities, or in warlike array, or in some way actually abetting those who then were so. (Bollman and Swartout's case,
4 Cranch, 7 , 101, 126; 1 Burr's Tr. 175.) And if an arrest
was made without an order of the commander-in-chief, the
court would discharge at once. (Alexander's case, 4 .Cranch,
75, 76, in note.) It should also be by warrant, and on
oath; and, in most cases, these were then resorted to by General Wilkinson. (Annual Register for 1807, p. 84.) And so
jealous were the people then of abuses, that a neglect by him
of obedience to the requisitions of the habeas corpus, in some
respects, led to a presentment against his conduct by the
grand jury of New Orleans. (Annual Register for 1807, p.
98.) But here no actual arrest was made, though alte ipted, and, what was less justifiable, without oath or wariant the
house was broken into, and hence any justification by martial
law failing which might be set up for the former would
seem more clearly to fail for the latter. Certainly it must

82

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

fail unless the latter was proper in this way, under all the circums tances, though no one was there liable to be arrested, and
none actually arrested.
This doctrine of their failing is familiar in municipal law in
breaking houses to seize persons and property on legal precept,
when none are found there liable to be seized. (5 Coke, 93, a;
Bac. Abr. Execution, W.)
In civil dissensions, the case stands very differently from
foreign ones. In the latter, force is the only weapon, after
reason and negotiation have failed. In the former, it is not
the course of, governments, nor their right, when citizens are
unable to convince each other, to fly at once to arms and military arrests and confiscations. The civil power can first be
brought to bear upon these dissensions and outbreaks through
the judiciary, and usually can thfus subdue them.
All these principles, and the precedents just referred to, show
that the course rightfully to be pursued on such unfortunate
occasions is that already explained; first resorting to municipal
precepts, next strengthening them by coperationof the militia
if resisted, and then, if-the opposition are in, battle- array, opposing the execution of such precepts, to obtain further assistance, if needed, from the general government to enforce them,
and. to seize and suppress" those so resisting in ,. anal array
against the State.
But affairs must advance to this extreme stage
.gh all intermediate ones, keeping the military in strict subordination to
the civil authority except when acting on its own members, before any rights'of lnere war exist or can override the community,
and then, in this country, they must do that under the countenance and controlling orders of the general government. *Belligerent measures, too, must come, not from subordinates, but
from those empowered to command, and be commensurate only
with the opposing array, - the persons, places, and causes where
resistance flagrante bello exists of the reckless character justifying violence and a disregard of all ordinary securities and
laws. It is not a little desirable that this doctrine should prove
to be the true one, on account of its greater tendency to secure
brderly and constitutional liberty -instead of rude violence, to
protect rights by civil process rather than the bayonet, and to
render all domestic outbreaks less bloody and devasting than
they otherwise would be.
There having been, then, no rights of .iar on the part of the
State when this act of '-Assembly passed, and certainly none
which could justify so extreme a measure 'as- martial law -over
the whole State as incident to them, and this act being otherwise unconstitutional, the justification set up under it must, in

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

83

Luther v. Bordea et al.

my opinion, fail. If either government, on the 24th of June,
possessed authority to pass an act establishing martial law to
this extent, it was, of course, that of the United States, - the
government appointed *u"our system to carry on war and suppress rebellion or domestic violence when a State is unable to
do it by her own powers.' Bat as the general government did
not exercise this authority, and probably could not have done
it constitutionally in so sweeping a manner, and in such an
early-stage of resistance, if at all, this furnishes an additional
reason why the State alone could not properly do it.
But if I err in this, and certain rights of war may exist with
one of our States in a civil strife like the present, in some extreme stage of it, independent of any act of Congress or the
President recognizing it, another inquiry would be, whether, in
the state of affairs existing at this time, such rights had become
perfected, and were broad enough, if properly pleaded, to cover
this measure of martial law over the whole State, and the acts
done under it, in the present instance. The necessities of
.foreign war, it is conceded, sometimes impart great powers as
to both things and persons. But they are modified by those
necessities, and subjected to numerous regulations of national
law.and justice, and humanity. These, when they exist in Inodern times, while allowing the persons who conduct war some
necessary authority of an extraordinary character, must limit,
control, and make its exercise under certain circumstances and
in a certain manner justifiable or void, with almost as much
certainty and clearness as any provisions concerning municipal
authority or duty. So may it be in some extreme stages of'
civil war. Among these, my impression is that a state of war,
whether foreign or domestic, may exist, in the great perils of,
which .it is competent, under its rights and on principles of national law, for a, commanding officer of troops under the controlling government to extend certain rights of war, not only over
his camp, but its environs and the near field of his military
operations. (6 American Archives, 186.) 'Bit no further, nor
wider. (Johnson v. Davis et al., 3 Martin, 530, 551.)- On
this rested the justification of one of the great commanders of
this country and of the age, in a transaction so well known at
New Orleans.
But in civil strife they are not to extend beyond the place
where insurrection exists. (3 Martin, 551.) Nor to portions
of the State remote from the scene of" military operations,
nor after the resistance is over, nor to persons not connectedwith it. (Grant v. Gould et al., 2 Hen. Bl. 69.) Nor, even
within the scene, can they extend to the person or property
of citizens against whom no probable cause exists which

84

SUPREME

COURT.

Luther v. Borden et al.

may justify it. (Sutton v. Johnston, 1 D. & E. 549.) Nor
to the property of any person without necessity or civil precept. If matters in this case had reached such h crisis, and
had so been recognized by the general government, or if such
a state of things could and did exist as to warrant such a measure, independent of that government, and it was properly
pleaded, the defendants might perhaps be justified within those
limits, and under such orders, in making search for an offender'
or an opposing combatant, and, under some circumstances, in
breaking into houses for his arrest.
Considerations like these show something in respect to the extent of authority that could have been exercised in each of these
cases as a belligerent right, had war been properly declared before
and continued till that time (6 American Archives, 232), neither
of which seems to have been the case. It is obvious enough
that, though on th6 24th of June,. five days 'previous, Luther
had been in arms at Providence, several miles distant, under
.he governor appointed 'under the new constitution, in order to
take possession of some of the public property there, and though
in the record it is statee that the defendants offered to prove
he was at this time in arms somewhere, yet, the fac t not being
deemed-mateiial under the question of martial law, on which
the defence was placed, it does not seem to have been investigated. How it might turn out can be ascertained only on a
new trial. -But to show it is not uncontroverted, the other
record before us as to this transaction states positively that'
Mrs. Luther offered to.prove there was no camp nor hostile array by any person in the town .where thlis trespass was committed, on the 29th- of June, nor within twenty-five miles of it
in any part of the State, and that Dorr had, on the 27th instant,
two days previous, published a statement against "any further
forcible measures" on his part, and directing that the military
"be dismissed."
The collection which had there happened, in relation to the
disputed rights as to the public property under the new
constitution, seems to have been- nothing, on the evidence,
beyond a few hundreds of persons, and nothing beyond the control of the courts of law, aided by the militia, if they- had been
wisely resorted to, - nothing which, when represented to the
Executive of the United States, required, in his opinion, from its
apprehended extent or danger, any war measures, - the calling
out of the militia of other States, or aid. of the public troops, or
even the actual issue of a proclamation - and the persons who
did. assemble hadi it appears, two days before the trespass,
been disbanded, and further force disclaimed without. a gun
being fired, or blood in any way shed, on that occasion.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

85

Luther v. Borden et al.

Under the worst insurrecttons, and even wars, in our history,
so strong a measure as this is believed never to have been ventured on before by the general government, and much less by
any one of the States; as within their constitutional capacity,
either in peace, insurrection, or war. And if it is to be tolerated, and the more especially in civil feuds like this, it will
open the door in future domestic dissensions here to a series of
butchery, rapine, confiscation, plunder, conflagration, and: cruelty, unparalleled in the worst contests in history between
mere dynasties for supreme power. It would go in practice
to render the whole country - what Bolivar at one time seemed
to consider his - a camip, and the administration of the government a campaign.
It is to be hoped we have some national ambition and pride,
under our boasted dominion of law and order, to preserve them
by law, by enlightened and consti._" -nal law, and the nioderation of superior intelligence and civilization, rather than by
appeals to any of the semibarbarous measures of darker ages,
and the unrelenting, lawless persecutions of opponents in civil
strife which characterized and disgraced those ages.
Again, when belligerent measures do become authorized by
extreme resistance, and a legitimate state of war exists, and
civil authority is prostrate, and violence and bloodshed seem
the last desperate resort, yet war measures must be kept within certain restraints in all civil contests in all civilized communities.
"The common laws of war, those maxims of humanity,
moderation, and honor," which should characteize other wars,
Yattel says (B. 3, ch. 8, see. 294 and 295), 11ought" to be observed by both parties in every civil war."? Under modern and
Christian civilization, you cannot needlessly arrest or make
war on husbandmen or mechanics, or women and children.
(Yattel, B. 3, ch. 8, sec. 149.) The rights of war are against
enemies, open and armed enemies, while enemies and during
war, but no longer. And the force used then is not to exceed
the exigency, - not wafntonly to injure 'private property, nor
disturb private dwellings and their peaceful inmates. (Yattel,
B. 3, ch. 8, sec. 148.) Much will be allowed to -discretion,
if manifestly exercised with honesty, fairness, and humanity. But the principles of the common law, as opposed to
trials without a jury; searches of houses and papers without
oath or warrant, and all despotic invasions on private personal
liberty, - the. customary usages to respect the laws of the
lemd except where a great exigency may furnish sufficient
excuse, -should
all. limit this power, in many respects,' in
practice. (2 Stephens on Laws of England, 602.) The
VOL. vU.

8

86

-"

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

more especially must it be restrained in civil strife, operating
on 6ur own people in masses and under our system of government in distributing authority between the States and the
Union, as the great powers of war are intrusted to the latter
alone, and the latter is also to recognize when that which
amounts to a rebellion exists, and interfere to suppress it, if
necessary, with. the incidents to such interference.. Under the
right of war the defence must also rest, not only-on what has
been alluded to, but, as before suggested, on the question whether
the insurrection at the time of this trespass was not at an end.
For if one has previously been in arms, but the insurrection
or war is over, any belligerent rights cease, and no more
justify a departure from the municipal laws than they do
before insurrection or war begins. If any are noncombatants,
either as never having been engaged in active resistance, or as
having abandoned it, the rights of civil warfare over them
would seem to have terminated; and the prosecution and punishment of their past misconduct belongs then to the municipal tribunals, and not to the sword and bayonet of the military.
The Irish Rebellion Act, as to martial law, was expressly
limited "from time to time during the continuance of the said
rebellion." (Tytler on Military Law, 405.) And in case of a
foreign war it.
is not customary to make prisoners and arrest
enemies after the war has ceased and been declared aban"doned,
though the terms of peace have not been definitely settled.
And if any of. them voluntarily, like Bonaparte, abandon the
contest, or surrender themselves as prisoners, the -belligerent
right to continue to imprison them after the war is at an end,;
much less to commit violence, as here, on others, with a view to
capture them, is highly questionable, and has been very gravely
doubted. (Yattel, B. 3, ch. 8, sec. 152,' 154.), 'Circumstances
like these make the rule of force and violence operate only to
a due extent and for a due time, within 'its appropriate sphere,
and secure beyond that extent and time the supremacy of the
ordinary laws of the land. Much more in a social or civil war,
a portion of the people, -where not then in arms, though differing in opinion, -are generally to be treated as noncombatants,
and searched for and arrested, if at all, by the municipa'law,
by warrant under oath, and tried by a jury, and not by the law
martial.
Our own and English history is full of such -arrests and
trials, and the- trials are held, not round a drum-head or cannon,
but in halls of justice and under the forms of established jurisprudence. (See State Trials, passim.) The writ of habeas
corpds, ,also, unless specially suspended by the legislature hay-

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

ST

Luther v. Borden et al.
ing power to do so, is as much in force in intestine war as
in pea'e; and the empire of the laws is equally to be upheld,
if practicable. (Ibid. 532; 4 Cranch, 101; 2 Hen. Bl. 69.) .
To conclude, it is manifest that another strong evidence of,
the control over military law in peace, and over these belli-gerent rights in civil strife, which is proper in a bold and independent judiciary, exists in this fact, that whenever they are
carried beyond what the exigency demands, even in cases
where some may be lawful, the sufferer is always allowed
to resort, as here, to the judicial tribunals for.redress. (4 Taunt.
67, and Baily v. Warder, 4 Maule & Selw. 400. See other
cases before cited.)
Bills or clauses of indemnity are enacted in England, otherwise officers would still oftener be exposed to criminal prosecution and punishment for applying either belligerent rights
or the military law in an improper case, or to an excess in a
proper case, or without probable cause. (1 MacArthur on
Courts-Martial, 33, 34;. Tytler on Military Law, 49 and 489;
see last act in Appendix to Tytler and Simmons.) And when in
an insurrection an opponent or his property is treated differently from what the laws and constitution, or national law, sanction, his remedy- is sacred in the legal tribunals. And though
the offender may have exposed himself to penalties and confiscatiofts, yet he is thus not to be deprived of due redress for
wrongs committed on himself.
The plaintiff in one of these records is a female, and was not
at all subject to military duty and laws, and was not in arms
as an opponent supporting the new constitution. And if the
sanctity of domestic life has been violated, the castle of the
citizen broken into, or property or person injured, without good
cause, in either case a jury of the country should give damages, and courts are bound to instruct them to do so, unless a
justification is made out fully 6n.correct principles. This can
and should be done without any vindictive punishment, when
a party appears to have acted- under a.supposed legal right.
And, indeed,, such is the structure of our institutions, that officers, as well as others, are often called on to risk much in behalf of the public and of the country in time of peiil. And if
they appear to do it from patriotism, and with proper decorum
and humanity, the legislature will, on application,'usually indemnify them by d'" zharging from the public treasury the
amount recovered for any injury to individual rights. In this
very case, therefore, the defence -seems to be by the State, and
at its expense. It shows the beautiful harmony of our system,
not to let private damage be sufferdd wrongfully -withoutredress, but, at the same time, n~t -to let a public agent suffer,

88

SUPREME COURT.
Luther v. Borden et al.

who, in a great crisis, appears to have acted honestly for the
public, from good probable cause, though in some degree mistaking the extent of his powers, as well as the rights of others.
But whether any of the rights of war, or rights of a citizen in
civil strife, independent of the invalid act of the Assembly
declaring martial law over all the State, have here, on the
stronger side against the feebler, been violated, does not seem
yet to have been tried. The only point in connection with
this matter which appears clearly to have been ruled at the
trial was the legality or constitutionality of that act of Asseribly. I think that the ruling made was incorrect, and'hence
that there has been a mistrial.
The judgment should, in this view, be reversed; and though
it is very doubtful whether, in any other view, as by the general rights of war, these respondents can justify their conduct
on the facts now before us; yet they should be allowed an
opportunity for it, which can be granted on motion below to
amend the pleas in justification.
Orders.
MARTIN LUTHER V. LUTHER l.

BORDEN ET AL.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript-of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Rhode Island, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.
RACHEL LUTHER V. LUTHER M. BORDEN ET AL.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Rhode Island, and on the questions and points on which the
judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and
which were certified to this court for its opinion agreeably to
the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, and it appearing to this court, upon an inspection of the said transcript, that
no point in the case, within the meaning of the act of Congress,
has been certified to this court, it is thereupon now here
ordered and decreed by this court, that .this cause be and the
same is hereby dismissed, and that this cause be and the same
is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court to be proceeded
in accoiding to law.

