626

SUPREME COURT.
Colby v. Ledden.

Court, the act sends the assignee in bankruptcy to the State
court where the suit is pending;,and admits its power to decide
the cause. It confers no authority on the District dourt to
restrain proceedings therein by injunction or any other process,
much less to take, property out of its custody or possession with
a strong hand. An attempt to enforce the decree set forth in
the rejoindero.vould probably have been met with resistance,
and resulted in a collision -of jurisdictions much to be depre11
cated.
In fine, we can find no precedent for the proceeding set
forth in this plea, and no grant of power to make such decree
or to execute it, either in direct terms or by necessary implication, from any provisions of the bankrupt act; and we are not
at liberty to interpolate it on any supposed grounds of policy
or expediency.
The plea cannot, therefore, be sustained, and the judgment
of the Superior Court of New Hampshire must be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record of the Superior Court of Judicature of the State of
New Hampshire, and was argued by counsel. On consideration-whereof, it is nor here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Superior Court of Judicaturq be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs and damages
at the rate of six per centum per annum.

AwuarA~i COLBY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v.

J.&iqrs

LEDDEN.

The decision of this. court in the preceding case of Peck v. Jenness ffnrmed.

THIS, like the preceding case of Peck v. Jenness,. was
brought up from the Superior Court of Judicature of the State
of New Hampshire, by a writ of error issued under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act.
Ledden was an inhabitant of the Province of New Brunswick, and Colby of the State of New Hampshire. The attachment was issued in 1837.
The case was similar, in it principal circumstances, to that
of Peck v. Jenness, and was argued together with it.
C. B. Goodrich,_for the defendant in error.
As to the principal question, I rely upon the Argument sub-

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.,

627

Shawhan et al. v. Wherritt.

mittena in the case- of Peck v. Jenness. The attachment in this
case Was made before the passage of the bankrupt statute. It
cannot with much reason be said, that the right which the defendant below acquired by his attachment, legal when made,
can be taken from him by subsequent legislation. Every objection, however, can be. made in this case, which can be taken
in relation to any attachment. The debt is discharged here,
to the same extent as any other debt.
As to the objections, that the statute requisites have not been
complied with which are essential to constitute an attachment,
I submit- that the State court is the exclusive judge in this
particular, and that its judgment is not open to review in this
court.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was argued with the case of Philip Peck et al. v.
John S. Jenness et al., and the record presents the same questions which have just been decided in that case. For the
reasons there assigned, the judgment of the Superior Court of
New Hampshire is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record to the Superior Court of Judicature of the State of
New Hampshire, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Superior Court of Judicature in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed, with
costs and damages at the rate of six per centum per annum.

JOHN L. SHAWHAN, DANIEL SH&wHAN, GEORGE H. PERRIN, BENTAxin
BERRY, CATHARINE SNODGRASS, AND ISAAC MILLER, APPELLANTS,
v. PERRY WHERRITT, ASSIGNEE OF THE BANKRUPT ESTATE OF BEN.
:3AIIIN BRANDON.

A decree of the District Court of the United States, sitting in bankruptcy, whereby
a person proceeded against, in invitun, was declared to be a bankrupt, is sufficient evidence, as against those who were not parties to the proceeding, to show
that there was a debt due to the petitioning creditor; that the bankrupt was a
merchant or trader within the meaning of the act; and that he had committed
an act of bankruptcy.
Thp first section of the bankrqpt act declares that the making of any fraudulent
conveyance, assignment, sale, gi or other transfer of lands, tenements, goods, or
chattels, is the commission of an ad'fof bankruptcy.
No creditor can, by instituting proceedings in a State court, after the commission of

