726

SUPREME COURT.
Hardeman 'et al. v. Harris.

WILLIAM HAFDEzAI AND HENRY R. W. HILL, COMPLAINANTS, V.
BENJAMIN D. HARRIS.
If an exception be taken to an answer in chancery upon the &round that certain
allegations in the bill are neither answered, admitted, nor denied, it becomes necessary to inquire whether the facts -charged in the allegations are material, and
might, if established, contribute to support the equity of the complainant.
If they will not, the omission to answer the allegations is not a good ground for exception to the answer, and the exception must be overruled.
Therefore, when a bill charged that certain notes were given for the purchase of
slaves
into1833,
the and
the
firstintroduced
Statetheof answer
Mississippi,
day of May,
as merchandise
for sale, such
after
omitted
to notice theand
allegation,
omisson
was repeatedly
not a good ground for an exception.
This
court has
decided that the fact stated is no defence to a suit at law.
Still
less
can
it
be aindefence
equity.
Where an allegation
the billin was,
that the complainants were only sureties, and
that their principal was insolvent, the answer was not justly subject to exception
for omitting to notice it. The fact in no way strengthened the equity of the cornplainants.

THIS case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of the State of Mississippi, on
a certificate of division in opinion between the judges thereof.
The facts in the ,.ase are sufficiently set-forth in the opinion
of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Nelson, on behalf of the respondent,

Harris; no counsel appearing for the complainants.
Nelson
sr. contended that neither of the exceptions was
well taken.
The first, becanse the allegation to which it refers was wholly
immaterial, and not therefore required to be answered.
The second, because the allegations therein referred to, contained in said bill, if at all material, Which is denied, have been
substantially responded to by said answer.
In support of the first proposition it is submitted,
t
That to justify an exception to an answer in chancery upon
the ground of insufficiency,, it is necessary to show that the
omission alleged is material to the purpore and object of the
complainant's bill. 2 Dan.: Chan. Prac. 261 ; Welford's Eqtuity
Pleai. 368; a on Disc.r160 1 ecOlellan & Younge, 334.
In Hirst v. Peirce, 4 Price, 136, (2 Eng. Exch. Rep.,) Chief
Baron Richardson says : -" There is great mistake in general
in this court as to what is a material exception. The true way
of arguing and considering such an exception is by ascertaining
whether, if the defendant should answer in the affirmative, his
admission wodd be of use to the plaintiff. I it would, it must
be answered ; if not, it is not material."
And in Bally v. Kenrick, 13 Pride, 294, (6 Eng. Exch.
Rep. 99,) Sir William Alexander, Chief Baron, says: - "The

JANUARY TEAM, 1849.

727

Hardeman et al. v.- Harris.

materiality of the exception will depend on this, -whether the
interrogatory be of such a nature, without'reference to..the objectionable part of the answer, as that the answer to it might, if
it were answered simply as it is put, so far contribute to support the equity 'of the plaintirs case as to- confribute to. induce the court to give him the relief sought by-the bill."
This being the'clear and wall-settled rule, it remains to inquire, whether the omission referred to in this exception be material to' the object of the complainants' bill.
That it is not is unquestionably clear. Groves v. Slaughter,
15 Pet. 449; Harris v. Runnels, 5 How. 135; Truly v. Wanzer
et al., 5. How. 141; Sims v. Hundley, 6 How. 1.
In support of the second proposition in the defendant's bripf,
it is insisted, That the omission alleged in the cbmplainants second exception does not in fact exist to the extent therein stated. and if
it did, it is wholly immaterial.
That Hardeman, .one of the complainants, was a mere' surety
in the note ued upon at law, is substantially adrhitted by the
defendant, and will be apparent upon the exa'ninatio.n of the
answer, wherein he states the sale of slaves, for which the note
was given, to have been originally made-to James MA.Smith, on
credit, and that he "received in paymefit therefor the notes
or bonds of said James M. Smith and of the said William Hardeman." That upon one of said bonds or notes a juagment
was obtained, as stated in the bill, and. that the note or bond
sued on, upon which the judgment enjoined 'was recovered, was
given in satisfaction of the first-inentioned bond or note and
judgment.
Now all that is necessary for a defendant to do, in a case like
the present, is to answer substantially the allegations of the bilL
Welford's Equity Pleadings, 261.
As to the objection, that the allegation of the insolvency of
James M. Smith's estate is not answered'by the defendant, it is
sufficient to say that the fact is nowhere so alleged in the bill
as to require any answer. There is. no such averment in the 'bill,
the only siggestibn being that "it seems that nothing can be
found," &c.
But if it were otherwise, it is indisputably clear that the allegations are wholly immaterial; that, however answered, the
complainants could not be aided in the purpose of their bill; and
that therefore, upon the authority of the cases already referred
to, the omissions furnish no sufficient grounds for an exception,
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case, the complainants filed a bill in the Circuit Court

729

SUPREME COURT.
Hardeman et al v, Harris.

for the Southern District of Missi ippi, praying a perpetual injunction agaidist a judgnent at law which had been obtained
against them. -The bill, among other things, states that the note
upon which the judgment was awarded was given for the pulrchase-money'of certain slaves brought by the defendant into the
*State of Mississippi, as merchandise and for sale, after "the first
day of Tby in the year 1833, and sold in.the State to a certain
James M: Smith, in violation of the . constitution and laws of
the State; that the complainant Hardeman was surety for
Smith; that a judgment was afterwards obtained against him,
and an execution issued and levied upon his property, and that,
to prevent it from being sold, he executed a forthcoming bond
with the other complainant, Hill, as his'security, which bond had
become forfeited, and therefore had the form and effect of a
judgment against the complainants; and that Smith, for whom
he was security, was dead, and his estate insolvent.
The defefidant answered; and upon the coming'in of the
answer, the following exceptions were taken to 'it 'by the com-

plainants: "1st. The bill charges that the slaves mentioned in complainants' bill, sold by the defendant, Harris, to James M. Smith, and*
which constitute the considerationof the note upon which the
judgment at law enjoined in this cause was rendered, were in-:
troduced into the State of Mississippi by the saia defbndant,
Harris, for sale-and as merchandise, after the first day of May,
1833., This allegation has not been answered, admitted or
denied.
"2d. It is alleged inthd bill, that complainant Hardeman was
only surety-in the note sued upon at law, and that C. P. Smith,
executor of James M. Smith, was principal, and that the estate
of James M. Smith is insolvent, &c. These' allegatiolis are
neither answered, admitted, nor denied."'
* And upon the hearing of these' exceptions, the judges were di"
vided in opinion upon the point whether they' were well taken
and should be sustained, or not, and therefore ordered the question.to be certified for decision to this court.
It is very clear that neither of these exceptions can be maintained. It has been repeatedly decided in this court, *thatthe
fact stated. in the first is no. defence at law, and still less can it
be a ground of relief in -equity afte-ra judgment at law.
And .as regards the second," certainly the insolvency of the.
*principal debt6r is no defence to the surety, either at law or in
equity..
If, therefore,.$he defendant had admitted in the most explicit
terms
thecontributed
allegations mentioned
i .the
exceptions,
theywould
not have
in any degree
to support
the claim
of- the

JANUARY

TERM, 1849..

729

Cutler v. Rae.

complainants ,o 'the relief they ask. And consequently, the
omission to answer (if the answer be open to that objection)
furnishes 'no ground of exception. It is not a sufficient foundation for an exception, that a fact. charged in a bill is not answered, unless the fact is material, and might contribute to.
support the equity of the case of the complainant, and induce
the court to. give the relief sought by the bill.
The exceptions ought, therefore, to have beeri overruled, and
we shall direct it to be so certified to the Circuit Court.

Orde.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the. United. States, for the
Southern District of Mississippi, and on the points or questions
on which the judges of the said Circuit Pourt were opposed in
opinion, and which were certified to this court, for its opinion,
agreeably to the act of Congress in such case made and piovided, and was argued by counsel. On' cQnsideration'whereof,
it is the opinion of 'this dourt, that the exceptions by the complainants were not well- taken, and ought--to- have ben overruled. Whereupon, it'is now here orderei and decreed i that it
be so certified to the said Circuit Court,

PLiNY CuTLiR, APPELLANT, .V.WILLLx

A.

RAE.

Where a vessel was run on shore by the captain in order to save the lives of those
on b6ard, and for the preservation of the cargo, by which act the vessel was totally
lost, but the cargo saved and delivered to the consignee, a libel in personam, filed
by the owner of the vessel against the consignee of the cargo, (and the result would
be the same if filed against the owner of the cargo) for a contribution by way
of geneial average, cannot be sustain-.d in the admiralty courts of the .United
States.
Those courts have jurisdiction wherever the vessel or cargo is subject to an absolute
lien, created by the 'maritime law; and will follow property subject to. such a lien
into the hands of assignees. The lien, in sucx cases, does not depend upon po8session.
But in cases of general average, the lien is a qualified one, depends upon the possession of the goods, and ceases when they are delivered to the owner or consignee.
Whatever may be the liability of~the owner after he has received his cargo, it is
founded upon an implied promise to contribute to the reimbursement of the
owner of the lost vessel, which promise is implied by the common law, and not by
the maritime law.
The case is, therefore, beyond the jurisdiction of courts of admiralty, and the libel'
must be dismissed.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts.
It was a libel filed in the District Court, as a court of admi-

