SUPREME COURT.

220

McLaughlin v. Bank- of Potomac et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama, and was" argued by counsel; on

consideration whereof, it is noW here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that
this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to award a venirefacias de novo.

BRIDGET McLAuGHLIN,

APPELLANT,

V. THE BANK OF

POTOMAC AND.

OTHERS.

Where an issue is sent by a court of equity to be tried bv a jury in a court
of law,
and exceptions are taken during the progress of the trial at law, these exceptions
in order to give
must be brought before the court of equity and there decided,
this court cognizance of them when the case is broght up by appeal.
A question, whether'or not certain conveyances were fraudulent, was properly submitted to the jury. Fraud is often a mixed.question of law and fact, and the jury
can be instructed upon matters of law.
A note held by a bank for a debt due to it, and renewed from time to time with the
same maker and indorser, is sufficient to constitute the bank a creditor in claiming to have conveyances set aside as fraudulent although the note was not due
when the conveyances were made, and the present note was renew d afterwards.
Where the-briginal debtor had made a conveyance of property to a trustee for the
purpose of securing his ind6rse, it was not necessary to pursui and exhaust that
trust-property before proceeding against the indorser and his property. A judg-meat had been obtained against the administrator of the indorser, which fixed his
- liability.

.

This judgment against the administialor in which a devastavit had been suggested,
and a return'of nulla bona to an execution, was good evidence against the surety
of the administrator, and also against the fraudulent grantee of the intestate.
Although the creditor has a remedy against the st et of ihe administrator by a suit
at law upon the bond., yet hi may also file a bill in chancery against all the parties who are concernod in the alleged fraud, and such other persons as are interested in the estate.
Although by the laws which prevail in the District of Columbia,.the personal estate
of a deceased person should be resorted to fhr the payment of debts before applying to the realty; yet, where the administrator was found guilty of a devastavik
-and the personal property was chiefly-left in the hands of the surety, who was also
the person charged with being a fraudnleht grantee of the intestate, the general
rule is not applicable.
In a bill against the fraudulent grantee, it is not necessary to aver a. deficiency of
the personal estate of the deeised ; it is sufficient to aver the fraud and the waste
of the personal assets by such grantee, who was also the pers6nal representative.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit, Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia and County of AleKandria,
sitting as a court of chancery.

The bill was filed in the Circuit Court by. the President, Directors, and Cormyany of the 'Bank of Potomac, Elijah Dallett

and Elijah Dallett-, Jr., trading under the firm of Elijah Dallett

JANUARY TERM,, 1849.

221

McLaughlin v. Bank of Potomac et al.

& Co., William H. Miller, and A. C. Cazenove & Co., wvho sue
in behalf of themselves and such other creditors of the estate
of Edward McLaughlbn, deceased, as will make themselves parties and contribute to -the expense of this-suit, against Edward
Sheehy, in his own right and as administrator of Edward
McLaughlin, and Ann Sheehy, wif6 of said Edward aId one
of the children and heirs at law of said Edward McLaughlin,
Bridget, otherwise called Biddy McLaughlin, another of the
children aid heirs at law of said Edward McLaughlin, and
surety for said Edward Sheehy's administration on said estate,
aund.Edmund I. Lee, trustee under a deed of'trust from the said
Edward Sheehy.
The narrative of the case is as follows.
.Edward Sheehy's notes, indorsed by 'Edward McLaughlin,
were discounted at the Bank of Potom&c as f6llows, viz. :
1828. -Dec. 12, 1 note for
- $2,000
1830.-Jan. 15, 1
"
cc
2,000
Feb. 5, I "
- 2,000
And they were-curtailed-and'renewed from time to time, un
til they all became due the 20th January, 1832, viz. :
1 note for
-"
.
.
.
.
.
-$1,375
1 " "
".
.
.
.
.
1,900
1 " "
.
.
.
.
.
.
. 1,975
Amounting'to
$ 5,25.0
when -they were amalgamated, and one note substituted for
the three, which note was renewed from time to time until
15-18 April, -1834, when it became due and was protested.,.
Whilst these notes were running on, namely, on the 27th4
of September, 1830, one James Robinson conveyed certaih
property in Alexandria to Bridget McLaughlin, Who was the
*daughter of Edward McLaughlin, the indorser of the above
notes. Sheehy, the maker, was married to another daughter.
One of the allegations in the "' bill was, that this property was.
seeretly paid for by Edward MaLaughlin, who, it was alleged,
.procured it to be conveyed to his daughter for the purpose of
placing it out of the reach of his creditors.
On the 24th of November, 1830, Sheehy conveyed a lot of
ground in the town-of Alexandria to Edmund I. Lee, in trust,
to secure McLaughlin against his indorsements in the bank, as
far as the sum of $ 3,950. Lee was to sell it whenever McLaughlin requested him, in writing, to do so.
On the 6th of Novrember, 1832, Edward'McLaughlin conveyed to his. daughter Bridget four lots in Alexandria, in fee
simple, reserving.to:himself a life estate.

SUPREME COURT.
McLaughlin v. Bank of Potomac et al.

On the 15th of March, 1833, Sheehy and wife conveyed to
McLaughlin certai~n other real property and slaves, and other
personal property. It was an indemnity against loss from the
indoiement of McLaughlin upon the notes in question and
other notes.
On the 9th of November, 1833, -McLanghlin executed
another deed in fee simple of certain property to his dhunghter
Bridget
In- April, 1834, the note mentioned in the beginning of this
nariative became due and was protesteO. Its amount was
$ 5,25D.. In May, 1834, the Bank of Potomac brought sit upon the
note, and in August, 1834, obtained judgment by default,
against Edward McLaughlin.
On the 15th of September, 1834, McLaughlin executed
another deed for certain other property in fee simple to his
daighter Bridget.
In September, 1834, after the execution of the above deed,
McLaughlin died.
On the 12th of November, 1834, Sheehy took out letters of
administration upon his estate, and Bridget McLaughlin became the security upon his bond. It is not necessary to state
the appraisement, or the measures pursued by other creditors
than the Bank -of Potomac. No administration account was
filed.
-In June, 1835, the judgment which the bank had obtain-ed against McLaughlin in his lifetime was reviyed, by scire
ficias, against his administrator, upon which an execution: was
iss~ued. The return was, that no effects of the said McLaugh•in, in the hands of his administrator, were to be found Whereon to levy the said execution.
In April, 1836, t.hu bank *ought an action against Sheehy,
suggesting a devastavit, and in June, 1837, obtained a judgment against him de bonis propriis. Executi6n was also issued
upon this, the return'to which was, that no goods and chattels
of the said, Sheehy were to'be found:
In January, 1838, the bank filed its bill on the equity side
6f the couit, suing for itself a;id such other creditors of the es•tate of Edward McLaughlin as chose to make themselves parties and contribute to the expense of the suit. .The bill recited
the 6bove facts; averred that a large amount of personal property came, ito" the hands of the administrator; that. the said
administratori, and his said surety, combining together to defraud the creditors of the said McLaughlin, caused his personal
estate to be appraised at prides greatly below its valie, and then
sent off the said slaves to distant parts' for sale, where they

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

223

McLaughlin v. Bank of Potomac et aL.

were actually sold for sums greatly exceeding the said appraisement; that no account of the sales of the said McLaughlin's
personal estate had ever been returned to the said Orphans'
Court, nor had the said administrator ever made any settlement
of his administration accounts; that large sums of monet'of thie.
said estate yet remain unaccounted for, and misapplied to their
own use by the said administrator and his surety; that McLaughlin had combined and confederated with his daughter
Bridget fraudulently to convey and transfer his property to her,
with a view to protect it from liability for his debts; that all
the, said deeds were fraudulent and void ; that the deceased left
no real estate, having thus conveyed it "all fraudulently away;
that his personal estate had been made away with arid misapplied by the administrator and his surety, the said Bridget; that
the bank had a right to be substituted to the benefit of ihe
trust deeds. The bill then prayed a discovery and account of
the personal estate; that thd fraudulent deeds might be set
aside and annulled, and the property mentioned in them be applied to the payment of the debts of the estate, and for general
relief.
A supplemental bill and answer were filed in the course of
the proceedings, which did not essentially vary the state of the
case.
In May, 1838, Bridget filed her answer, wrhich was afterwards withdrawn; and another filed in May, 1842.
Sheehy
and wife filed their answer in May, 1839. The answer of
Bridget denied all the allegations in the bill, and especially a
legal recovery against Sheehy for said debt, but, if proved, contested that she was bound for the same, being no party thereto.
She further -admitted giving the bond as surety for Sheehy, but
denied thiat it was binding on her, or that personal property of
more value than $ 1,653.28 came to his hands, as shown in the
inventory thereof. She denied any combination to defraud the
creditors of Edward McLaughlin, by undervaluing his personal
estate, or selling it higher than the appraisement, or not having
it accounted for. She deniied the existence of any indebtedness now by Edward McLaughlin, or at his death, as indorser
for Sheehy, which existed in September, 1830, and averred
that notice- of protest was necessary to make him so liable,
which had never taken place, and that the deed then given to
her was not fraudulent as to the bank. She further averred
that the deeds were not void, because Sheehy was the principal
,debtor, and possessed sufficient real estate then' to satisfy the
debt. She further alleged, that the real estate of her father was
liable in the hands of his heirs only for specialty debts, which
this was not. She proceeded to deny fraud in the various other

224

SUPREME COURT.
McLaughlin v. Bank of Potomac et al.

deeds to her, and to allege a inoneyed consideration therefor.
She admitted the conveyances in trust by Sheehy, and averred
that the bank-had never requested the land held in trust to be
conveyed and applied to the discharge of this debt, or it would
have been done, and that it ought now to be done before a
resort to the personal estate. She denied the validity of the
judgments 'against Sheehy as affecting her, and proceeded to
answer the special interrogatories addressed to her.
Sheehy and wife, in their answer, denied all fraud in the
-inventory or management of the estate; admitted that no account of his administration had been -rendered by Sheehy,. but
averred his readiness to do so; that although he. was the nominal admiiiistrator, yet ,Bridget McLaughlin transacted all the
business, and denied all combination with Bridget, or with any
other person,, to defraud the creditors of Edward McLaughlin.
In April, 1839, the court passed a decree for the sale; of the
property mentioned in the two deeds of Sheehy to Lee, of the
24th of November, 1830, and Sheehy and wife to Edward
McLaughlin, of the 15th of March,- 1833. The reports of sale
need not be further adverted to.
In May, 1843, -thecause standing under a general replication
and issue, the court ordered it to be' tried at law, for the purpose of ascer :ming, 1st. Whether any, and what, valuable consideration. was paid
or given, ' and by whom, to James Robinson, for the property
conveyed by him 'to the said Bridget McLaughlin in the bill
mentioned'; and' whether the said property, in. the. said deed
mentioned, was purchased bona fide-by the said Bridget, with
her own funds.
2d. Whether the deeds -of the 6th of November, 1832, and
the 9th of November, 1833, in the bill mentioned, from the
said Edward McLaughlin and the said Bridget McLaughlin, or
either, and which of said deeds, were or was made with intent
to hinder, delay, or defraud the complainants of their just and
lawful actions as creditbrs of the szid Edward McLaughlin, or
whether the said deeds were made for valuable consideration,
and bonafide.
- 3d. Whether the deed of the 15th of September, 1834, from
the said' Edward McLaughlin to, the said Bridget, *ats -made
with a like intent to hinder or delay the said complainants, or
t
bona.fide, and for valuable consideration.
The jury, being unable to agree, were discharged, and the
record transferred to Washington county, where the cause was
'tried at March' term, 1844. The certificate was as follows:=
"Upon the first issue joined the" jury say, that the valuable
consideration expressed in the deed referred to in the said issue
-

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

225

McLaughlin.v. Bank of Potomac et aL

was paid by Bridget McLaughlin to said James Robertson,
and that the said* property mentioned iff-said deed. was purchased bonr fide by the said Bridget, with her own funds.
"And we find, as to the second of the said issues, that the
said deeds of the 6th of November, 1832, and the 9th of November, 1833, in the said bill mentioned, from said Edward
McLaughlin to said Bridget McLaughlin, were, and both and
each of. them were made by the said Edward with intent to
hinder, delay, and- defraud the' said complainants of their just
and lawful action as creditors of the said Edward McLaughlin,
and that the said Bridget had notice of said intent, and that
they were not, nor were either of them, made for an adequate
valuable consideration, nor wereeither of them made bona fide
between the said parties.
"And as to the third of. he said issues, we find that the deed
of the 15th of September, 1834, from the said Edward McLaughlin to the said Bridget, was made with a like intent to
hinder and delay the said complainants, and was not bonfide;
and&-the same was not-made for a valuable consideration.
"And we find upon the second and third issues for the complainants."
In the course of this trial, sundry bills of exceptions were
taken, which it is unnecessary to specify, because the points
made were not brought before the court which sent the issue
to be tried at law, and therefore it was held that thev should
not come before this court for review.
In June, 1845, the Circuit Court of Alexartdria passed the
following final decree "The court, on consideration of the above matters; do now
here, this 10th day of June, 1845, order, adjudge, and decree,
that the aforesaid deed from James Robertson to Bridget MeLaughlin, dated the 27th day of September, 1830, in the bill
of the complainants mentioned, was riot made with intent to
hinder or defraud the creditors, of the said Edward McLaughlin, and is not fraudulent and void. And fhey do further adjudge and decree, that the several deeds dated-the 6th of November, 1832, and the 9th of November, 1833, and the 15th of
September, 1834, - from the said Edward McLaughlin to his
daughter, the said Bridget McLaughlin, were made without
valuable consideration, and vere made with intent tc delay,
hinder, and defraud the creditors of the said Edward McLaughlin, and are, therefore, fraudulent and void as against
them, and that the said deeds be set aside and atunulled.
"And the court, pioceeding to grant to the complainants such
relief as they axe entitled to, and as sought in their said bills,
do further adjudge, order, and decree, that the real estate de-

226

SUPREME COURT.
McLaughlin v. Bank of Potomac et al.

scribed and mentioned in the above last-mentioned -deeds, from
the said Edward to the said Bridgct McLaughlin, and by this
decree declared frauduleht and void, be subjected to the payment of the debts of the complainants, in the manner hereinafter directed; and- that the -commissioners hereinafter named
do proceed to make out of the said property, by a sale of, the
same, or so much thereof as may be,.requisite, and in such'lots
as to the said commissioners shall seem best, at public auction,
to- the highest bidder, after giving thirty days' n6tice of the
time, place, and terms of. sale, by publication in the'Ale:-andria
Gazette, the following several sums, that is oo s ay" (proceeding
then to distribute the -fund amongst the creditors).
An appeal from this decree brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Francis L: ,Smith and Mr. Brent,
for the appellant, and Mr. Bradley and Mr. Davis, for the
appellees.
The points raised by the counsel for the appellanit were the
following, viz.: 1st. That so far as regards the claim of the Bank of Potomac,
the principal plaintiff, the property conveyed by Sheehy to Lee
.and McLaughlin in the deeds of trust should first have been
exhausted, and appropriated to the payment.'of the debt. 1c
Wend. 588; 5 Wend. 661.
2d. The bank might have made its debt by pursuing, properly its remedy at 'common law. The suit against Sheehy
as drawer of the -note was brought to May term, 1834, and an
office judgment was confirmed at November term, 1834. No
execution was issued on this judgment, although the person of
Sheehy, by the laws then in force, might have been taken in
execution, and his lands sold under a ft. fa., and although it
appears from the record that he held the lands.
3d. The personal property of McLaughlin is the fund primarily liable for the payment of his debts; and before a sale
of the realty could properly have been decreed, the administration a6count of Sheehy on his. estate should have been settled,
in order to ascertain the -exact amount for which the realty was
liable. 1 Story, Eq. (ed. 1846), § 548; 4 Johns. Ch. 619.
4th. The real estate of McLaughlin could not be sold as long
as there was any perbonalty. Act of Congress, 24th of June,
1812, putting real estate in. the county of Alexandria on the
same footing with that in the county of Washington., For
laws of Maryland, see 1 Har, & Johns. 469; 4 Gill & Johns.
296; 8 .Peters, 128.
5th. The complainants rely alone on judgments against the
administrator, which we contend are no evidence against Bridget

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

227

McLaughlin v. Bank of Potomac et al.

McLaughlin, as grantee in the possession of the property. 1
Mass. 445; 8 Peters, 528; 5 Gill & Johns. 433; 4 Hat. &
Johns. 126,. 270; 6 Johns. Ch.360; 11 Leigh, 38; 4 Phil. Ev.
(ed. 1843), note 639, page 921, where the authorities are collected.
6th. The liability of Bridget McLaughlin, if any, was on the
administration bond as surety for Sheehy, which could not be'
enforced by the creditors at large. The doctrine is well set:tled, in equity, that a suit to set aside a deed cf real estate for
fraud cannot be maintained until there is a judgment at law.
2 Leigh, 84; 1 Story, Eq. % 375, 376.
7th. There is no averment in the bill- that the indorser, McLaughlin, was ever notified of the non-payment of the note on
which the bank has sued. 6 Wheat. 146, 572 - 574.
Some other point' were made relating to the instructions
given in the court -of law, to which an issue was sent to be
tried; but the decision of this court being that those instructions were not properly before it, it is not deemed necessary to
insert them.
These points were severally resisted by the counsel for the
appellees.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
(He first gave a synopsis of the bill and answers, and then,
after some reference to the evidence, proceeded as follows.)
A preliminary point to be considered in this case is in respect to the exceptions made at the trial by a jury of the issue
at law, sent from the court of chancery, or the equity side of
the Circuit Court of the United States. On the .return of that
issue to the equity side of the court, exceptions to the rulings
were not made, or renewed against the correctness of the finding of the verdict, arid consequently no opinion on them has
ever been rendered by the court sitting in chancery. It is
quite clear, then, that they are not before us on this appeal,
which is only from a decree on the equity side of that cQurt.
We wish it to be distinctly understood, as a matter of practice in like cases, that this court cannot express any opinion on
matters ruled in any other court, or side of the court, than that
appealed froin; and if it be necessary to go into other courts to
get verdicts or decisions on any portion of the case in its progress below, any objections to rulings on the pointp arising in
those trials or decisions must be presented for revision to the
court which orders the issue, and be acted upon there, itwe are
expected'to take cognizance of them here. Brockett v. Brockett, 3 How. 691 ; Van Ness v. Van Ness, 6 How. 62; Mayhew
v. Soper, 10 Gill & Johns. 372. Such, too, is substantially

228

SUPREME COURT.,
McLaughlin v.. Bank of Potomac -et aL

the doctrine in England.
2 Daniell, Ch. Pr. 746; Bootle v.
500.
Blundell, 19 Yes.
It is. next objected, that there was an error in the court in
-ordering such an issue to be tried by a jury, as it did in the
present case. But we are not satisfied that, in referring the
question of fraud in the conveyances to a jury for their verdict
to aid the court in its inquiries, any thing improper was submitted. It did not, as has been contended, refer a question of
law only. Fraud is often, as here, a mixed question of law
and fact. Seward v. Jackson, 8 Cow. 406, 439; Brogden v.
Walker's Executor, 2 Har. & Johns. 291. And it might be very
useful to have the views of a jury on it, taking care to instruct
them concerning the law, and, leaving to their exclusive consideration, as was probably done here, merely the facts as connected with that law. Such feigned issues are not for the assistance of parties so much.as of the court. 2 Daniell, Oh. Pr. 730.
And though- they may not always be well made up, yet, as
the court are influenced by the finding or not, as seems to it,
proper (19 Yes. 500; Allen v. Blunt, 3 Story, 746), it is very
rare that ordering such a a issue. can 'be deemed a ground of
error. It may, however, be conceded, that, if such an issue be
one of mere law, or idle, or impertinent, it is erroneous. 2
Daniell, Oh. Pr.1315, 420,730 ; Nicol v. Vaughan, 5 Btigh, 540545; 3 Yes. & Beam. 43: Disregarding, then, those exceptions made in the trial of this feigned issue, as not being legally
before us, and overruling the objection to the propriety of the
issue itself, the finding of the jury, and the opinion of the
court sitting in chancery on that part of the case relating to
the fraudulent conveyances, would seem to be correct. At least,
this court appears bound to consider it so, prim&facie'; and
we see nothing in the evidence itself, it reconsidered' here,
which would show the -weight of -it not to accord with their
results. 2 Rand. 398; Hoye v. Penn, 1. Bland, Ch. 28; Kipp
v. Hanna, 2 Bland, 26; 2 Har. & Johns. "292.
Those results are, that all the deeds except the first one were
fraudulent against creditors. -The next inquiry is, whether the
plaintiffs can legally be considered creditors at the time these
deeds were executed. It is true, there must usually be a debt
preexisting. Sexton v. Wheaton, 8 Wheat. 229. In our view,
a preexisting debt by a note, which was only renewed afterwards, with the same indorser, continued to be the same preexisting debt for this purpose as it stood originally, both as to
the maker and indorser. They both regarded it virtually as
the same, as no new consideration ever arose between the
parties. Especially on the equity side of this court, and of the
Circuit Court below, where the question arises, such a case

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

29

McLaughlin v. Bank of Potomac et al.

ought to be regarded as much within the mischief of the statutes against fraudulent conveyances as if the action leading to
judgment against the administrator had been on the original
indorsement of the original note.
But further, it is objected that the debt here, at the time of
the conveyances, was not absolute, as it should be in order to
predicate fraud concerning it. But a contingent debt, likely
to become absolute, and which afterwards does become absolute,
is, both on principle and precedent, enough to furnish a motive
to make a fraudulent conveyance to hinder or avoid its eventual payment.. And'this may be presumed to have been done
here, provided circumstances exist indicative of fraud. King
v. Thompson, 9 Pet. 220; Heighe v. Farmers' Bank, 5 Har. &
Johns. 68. Such circumstances must exist; and when the liability is contingent like that of a warrantor or indorser, the
conveyance cannot be considered as per se fraudulent. Seward v. Jackson, 8 Cow. 406, 439. But all the attendant facts
here were scrutinized, and the inference of fraud seems to have
been fairly deduced from the whole. 5 Gill & Johns. 533.
There is another objection to a recovery by this bill in
equity, because the original debtor, Sheehy, had made a
conveyance in trust to Lee for the indemnity of Edward McLaughlin, and it is argued that the plaintiffs should.' have resorted to that rather than to a suit against the administrator of
Edward McLaughlin. But where the maker and indorsdr haveboth had their liability fixed ofi a note, an action will lie against
either. Here-both had become liable, else the indorser had not,.
for the latter is nqver liable unless the maker is also; and that'
the indorser had here bedome liable is to be presumed strongly
from the actual recovery against.his administrator.
The next objection is, that the judgment against the administrator of the indorser, the only evidence of a debt offered
here, is no evidence against the surety of the administrator, or
against a fraudulent grantee, of the intestate debtor; as is Bridget
McLaughlin. But we think otherwise. The administrator
and his intestate are privies, and the former is liable after one
recovery against the goods in his hands, and another againsthimself, suggesting a devastavit on a return of nulla bona.. 2
Brock. 213, 214.
If the administrator, then, in such case, be estopped, as he
is, to deny the indebtedness of the debtor whom he represents,.
so must be his surety, prim facie at least. 1 Brock., 135,
268; 4 Johns. Ch. 620; 2 Rand. 39B. So in a bill in chaucery,
charging, like this, fraud in the administrator and a grantee, we
think that such a judgment, till impeached, is-good a ainst the
fraudulent grantee. Birely v. Staley, 5 Gill & Johns. 433;
vo., vI.
20

230

SUPREME COURT.
McLaughlin v. Bank of Potomac et aL.

Alston v. Munford, 1 Brock. 279; 2 Rand. 398. As to the
heir, the question is different, and the force of the recovery
may be much, less. 2 Leigh, 84; Bank of United States v.
Ritchie, 8 Peters, 128; 4 Har. & Johns. 270, 271 ; 1 Munf.
437, 455. Not being a privy in estate or deed with the administrator, it may not be res judicata or even-!primd facie
valid, so as to bind either the heir or a devisee. 1 Brock. 145,
247 ; 1 Munf. 1; 437, 445 ; 5 Gill & Johns. 433. But a fraudulent grantee Btands in a different relation, and his rights are in
several respects unlike theirs.
The form of proceeding which has been adopted here against
the surety is also excepted to. There is another mode, to be
sure, of proceeding against the surety, which is on the administration bond. But in that case, a judgment like this against the
administrator would be presumptive evidence against the surety,
though open, perhaps, to proof, if any 'existed, of collusion or
fraud in the judgment. In this way, also, thbugh the creditor
has a double remedy, if the surety has combined to commit a
fraud and waste of the estate, and may proceed against him for
that in a bill, or proceed on the administration bond, yet this
double remedy is not unusual, nor exceptionable; and bi!ls like
these may well include all who have colluded with the administrator, or improperly intermeddled with the -property, like executors de son tort. Holland v. Orion, 1 Mylne & Keen, 240; 1
Yez. sen. 105 ; 2 Keeii, 534; Story, Eq. P1. § 178. Chamberlayne v. Temple,. 2 Rand. 39S. But whether fraud is charged
or not, such bills should usually include all persons who may
be affected by being interested in the estate. Story, Eq. Pl.
§ 178; Bowsher v. Watkins, 1 Russ. & Mylne; 277. This is
expedient in order to settle all the liabilities and exceptions in.
one proceeding, and to ascertain how much ought to be charged.
on real, and how much on the personal estate. Story, Eq. Pl.
44 172- 176. Here the collusion and waste are imputed to
both the administrator and surety, and the same surety" is
charged with fraud in the purchase of the land, and this proceeding against them, whatever other remedy may exist, must
therefore be deemed proper. Story, Eq. P1. § 178; 1 Mylne &
Keen, 237, 240; 1 Russ. & Mylne, 281, note; 5 Gill & Johns.
432, 453; 2 Rand. 398, 399; 10 Gill & Johns. 65, 100.
The next objection is, that, by the laws prevailing in Alexandria, the first resort for payment of such a debt should be to
the personal estate, before going to the real. There seems to be
not much doubt of this, as a general principle, under the laws of
Maryland, by 5 Geo. 2, c. 7, before the cession of the northern
poition of the District of Columbia. Those laws were adopted
in that District, February 27th, 1801 (2 Stat. at Large, 103, 756;

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

231

MbLaughlin v. Bank of Potomac et al.

1 Har. & Johns. 469; 2 Har. & McHen. 12), and her laws
in this respect appear to have been extended to Alexandria,
June 24th, 1812. Davis's Laws of District of Columbia, 264.
'The laws of Virginia prevailing there before do not seem on
this point to have been materially different. 2 Leigh, 84; 2
Lomax, Ex. 512. There the real estate was made liable for
certain debts, under an act of Parliament, as early -as 1732,
extending in terms to the Colonies. Tessier v. Wyse, 3
Bland, 44; 2 Bland Ch. 325. But still, "in a creditor's
suit" or bill, the personal estate should first appear on the
hearing to be insufficient. 1 Brock. 79; 2 Bland, 317, 347;
Wyse v. Smith, 4 Gill & Johns. 302; 2 Har. & McHen. 12.
It does so appear here in substance. Here it is alleged, and
not denied, that the personal estate has never been accounted
for by the administrator or surety. It would seemi on the evidence to have been left chiefly in charge of the surety, and to
have been improperly applied to her own use. The objection,
therefore, comes with a very ill grace from her. The administrator has also been found guilty of a devastavit in respect to
it, and it is manifest there never was enough, either as sold or
appraised, to defray the debt of the bank alone. Under these
circumstances, then, a resort was proper to the real estate. Gordon's Adm'r v. Frederick, 1 Munf. 1; 2 Bland, 347.
It is further objected, that such a resort cannot be had, unless it is averred in the bill, as well as proved, that the personal
estate has been all exhausted in the payment of debts. The
fact of the personal estate being exhausted in some way before
the real is taken from the heir, as heir, and applied, may, as
llefore remarked, be proper to be first proved. But the necessity
'to aver it in so many words, even in the bill to charge an heir,
is questionable. 1 Brock. 79; 2 Lomax, Ex. 250; 2 Story, Eq.
P1. §§ 174, 176. See forms in 2 Grattan, 532, and 3 Grattan,
371; Equity Draftsman, 157, 161, 180; Tessier v. Wyse, 3
Bland, 44. Such an averment does not affect the merits, because,
whether averred or not, the court will not generally charge the
land till satisfied that the personal estate has been wasted or is
insufficient. Stevens v. Gregg, 10 G "1& Jbhns. 143. And it is
usual, also, to have the" prayer of the bill state, in some way, that
the personal assets are insufficient. Such is the form in Beall
v. Taylor, 2 Grattan, 532. But this deficiency need not be
alleged to have arisen from the actual payment of debts. Some
seem to consider it enough to aver that waste has been committed of the personal estate. 2 Bland, Ch. 347. Others, that
it will suffice to state and to show judgment against it and execution unsatisfied. Rhodes v. Cousins, 6 Rand. 190; Liggat v.
Morgan' 2 Leigh, 84. The English practice is, not to require any

SUPREME COURT.
McLaughlin v. Bank of Potomac et aL

averment that the personal estate is exhausted, but merely to ask
the landt66 be charged, if the personal estate be not enough. 3
Bland, 43; Davy v. Pepys,. Plowden, 439; 3 P. Wins. 92, 333.
So is it in New, York. Thompson v. Bruce, 4 Johns. Ch. 620.
It would seem, also, to be permissible in Virginia, where the heir
or devisee for such debts as are .chargeable on the land is joined
in a creditor's bill with the executor or administrator, to examine into the condition of the personal estate, irrespective of any
averment about its sufficiency, and, if found to be, enough, to
dismiss the bill as to the heir (1 Brock. 79); and if -not
enough, to sustain the bill against the heir for the deficiency.
Such seems to be the practice, also, in some other places. 4
Johns. Ch.621 ; Story, Eq. P1. §§ 172, 174, 176 ; Hammond v.
Hammond, 2 Bland, Ch. 306, 359; Tessier v. Wyse, 3 Bland,
59; Gibson v. McCormick, 10 Gill & Johns. 65.
Many of the cases in Maryland, looking to the propriety of
a fuller and direct averment that a deficiency has happened
from the payment of debts, 'arise under lawi passed since 1801,
and after her prior laws had been adopted in this District, and
relate to heirs or devisees, rather than fraudulent grantee's.
Gibson v. McCormick, 10 Gill & Johns. 102. The following
cases were. those of heirs 'who were infants or lunatics, and
hence requiring the, aid and vigilance of chancery to protect
them, by'having debts clearly proved, and the personal estate
first exhausted. 3 Bland, 49, 84; United States Baik v. Ritchie,
8 Peters, 128; Wyse v. Smith, 4 Gill & Johns. 302.
Considering, then, that in Maryland and Virginia, no lhss
than elsewhere, something is permissible short of a direct
averment as to the exhaustion" of the personial estate in the
payment of debts in a bill against an ordinary heir as such,
certainly the reason does not apply in a proceeding against a
fraudulent grantee for any thing fuller or more direct, if so full.
5 Gill & Johns. 433. Such a grantee has no protection, like
the heir, from want of privity- or misconduct, and though he
may be,'in fact, the heir, as in this case, yet he takes by his
deed, prioir in tempore,' and holds any surplus after paying
debts as a voluntary and goo a grantee in respect to that surplus, and not'as heir.
When, therefore, in a bill against such a fraudulent grantee,
the fiaud is averred, as here, and a waste of the personal estate,
and the clause is stated to be made on that account, all is alleged which, seems necessary for. full notice, and for a dccree
against.such grantee, if at the hearing the fraud is substantiated,
and the personal assets are proved to be wasted or insufficient.
To show that the averments in this bill come quite up to
the usua standard, in this respect, we need only cite from it

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

233

McLaughlin v.'Bank of Potomac e-t al.

the following, as to Edward McLaughlin:-" That he left
no real estate, having fraudulently conveyed and disposed of
the whole of it in favor of the said Bridget McLaughlin, as
before stated. That his personal estate has been made away
with, and misapplied by his administrator, and the surety of
said administrator, as before charged. Your orators are advised' that the personal estate of the said McLaughlin is, in
the first place, liable to the payment of their debts, if he left
sufficient for that purpose, and that the said administrator and
his surety are bound to render an account thereof. That if the
said personal estate be insufficient, then -that the real estate,
fraudulently conveyed by him as aforesaid, is liable to make
good any deficiency."
Our conclusions, then, on this point, are, that these allegations must be considered ample and explicit.enough for a proceeding against a fraudulent administrator and surety and
fraudulent donee, whether looking to the Maryland, Virginia,
or English practice as prevailing in Alexandria. Being also a
proceeding in chancery, if in some respect argumentative, the
averment is clear enough not to be mistaken, and opens for
consideration the whole merits. .Because, as regards the del
fendants, if on principle they are answerable for personal estate
squandered and misapplied.by themselves, and land fraudulently conveyed to one of them is not to be shielded from liability
in consequence of the waste of personal estate by herself; then
the allegations here are the proper ones, and, being the true,
ones also, need no am~endment. The facts established under
them fully justify the decree below.
So far from the principal defendant insisting or show ag, at
the hearing in this case, that the personal assets were large
enough to pay this debt, or have been so applied, and the land
in her possession has been thus relieved from the charge, she
contended that they were less in amount than the plaintiffs
did; and the latter prove clearly that she joined the administrator in committing waste of what did exist, that is, consumed
the very property she-urges the creditors should resort to before calling on her. . And though she is an heir of Edward
McLaughlin, the proceeding here is against her, not as heir,
but as surety to a defaulting administrator of the personal estate, and as fraudulent grantee of the real estate.
There is no heir to this land, claiming it as heir; in any part
of these proceedings, but a grantee of it, claiming by a deed,
and which, if fraudulent, still entitles the grantee to hold it as
grantee against 'the heirs of the grantor, of whom there is one
other not here, and places the heirs as such entirely out of the
case, - )Wrs de combat.
2D *

SUPREME COURT.
Wagner et al. v. Baird et al.

As no other question arises on the appeal which is material
and has not-been arranged in submitting to a sale of the trust
property, it is only nebessary to add that the judgment below
must be affirmed.
Mr. Justice McKINLEY dissented.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandiia, and
was arguea by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and decreed by this court, that the decree of the
said Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs.

PETER K. WAGNER, AND SIDONIA PIERCE WAGNER, HIS WIFE, JOHN
LAWSON LEWIS, LOUISA MARIA LEWIS, THEODORE LEWIS, ELIZA
CORNELIA LEWIS, ALFRED. J. LEWIS, JOHN HAIPDEN LEWIS, AL.GERNON SIDNEY LEWIS, GEORGE WASH'INGTOK LEWIS, AND BEN3A,lfIN4FIANKLIN LEWIS, ALL RESIDENiTS AND CITIZENS OF THE CITY OF

NEW ORLEANS AND STATE OF LOUISIANA, AND JOHN BOWMAN, AND
MARY PIERCE B9WYAN, HIS WIFE, LATE MARY PIERCE LAWSON,
-RESIDENTS AND CITIZENS, OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE, AND GEORGE
C. THO'PSoN, ARESIDENT AND CITIZEN OF THE STATE OF KENTUCEY,
COMPLAINAINTS AND APPELLANTS, V. JOHN BAIRD AND OTHERS, RESPONDENTS.

There is a.defence peculiar to courts of equity founded on lapse of time and the
stalcness of the claim, where no statute of limitations directly governs the case.
In such cases, the court often act upon their oN'n inherent doctrine of discouraging for the peace of society, antiquated demands, by refusing to interfere where
there ha been gross laches in prosecuting rights, or long acquiescence in the assertion of adverse rights.
The rule ueon this subject, originally laid down by Lord Camden, in Smith v. Clay,
3 Brown s Chancery Reports, page 640, note, and adopted by this court in I Howard, 189, again asserted.
Long acquiescence and laches by parties out of possession are productive of much
hard.hip and injustice to others, and cannot be excused but by showing some actual hindrance or impediment caused by the fraud or concealment of the party in
pse ssion, which will appeal to the conscience of the chancellor.
e party guilty of such laches cannot screen his title from the just imputation of
staleness, merely by the allegation of an imaginary impediment or technical disability.
The facts in this case bring it within the operation of the above principles, and the
bill must, therefore, be dismissed.
THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Ohio, sitting as a court of equity.

