658

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. BoisdQr's Heirs.

The hardship stated is an unanswerable objection to theoperation of: the injunction, until all the matters shall be finally
adjusted. If the injunction has been inadvertently granted,
the Circuit Court has power to susperid it or set it aside, until
the report of the master shall be sanctioned. And unless the
defendants below are in doubtful circumstances, and canrotgive bond to respond in. damages for the 'use of the machines,
should the right of the plaintiff be finally established, we sup,pose that the injunction will .be suspended. Such is a correct
course of practice, as indicated by the decisions of this court,.
and that is a rule of decision lfor the Circuit Court.
The appeal is dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, and it appearing to. the court here
that the decree of the court below complained of is not a-final
decree, within the meaning of the act of Congress, it is
thereujon now here ordered and decreed by this court, that
this cause be and the same is hereby dismissed for the want of
jurisdiction.

THE UNITED STATES, APELLANTS, v. THE HEms or Louis BoIsDont.*
The meaning of the forty-third rule of-this court is,.that, if a judgment'or decree in
-the court below be rendered more than thirty days before the commencement of'
the term of'this court and the record be not filed within the first six days of the
term, the appellee or defendant in error may docket the case, and move for its
dismissal as the rule prescribes.
But if the judgmen or decree of the court below be rendered less than thirty days
before the commencement of the term of this court, the rule does not apply. - .
THIS

was an appeal from the District Court of the United

States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
Mr. Fendallmoved to dismiss the appeal, upon the grounds
stated in the opinion of the court, which motion was opposed
by Mr. Toucey (Attorney-General).

-the

Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the decree 6f the District Court for
Southern District of Mississippi.
*Mr. Chig.Justice Taney did not sit in this cause.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

.659

United States v. Boisdor's Heirs.

The bilf was filed against the United States, under the acts
of June 1, 1844, and May 26, 1824, to try the validity of
the complainants' claims to certain lands in Mississippi. At
the November term of the District Coug, 1847, a decree was
entered in favor of the petitioners, and at the same term an
appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States was granted
by the District Cburt, on the application of the defendants.
An appeal thus allowed requires no notice to the appellee. A
motion is now made to dismiss this appeal, oh the following

groundsl:
1. Because the appeal is not made to any specified term
of the Supreme Court.
2. Because it is not made returnable to the term of the
Supreme Court next following the decree.
3. Because the record is not filed at the term of the Supreme Court next following the decree.
Under the act of 1824; the party against whom the decree
is entered may appeal within one year. On the 14th of
March, 1848, a transcript of the record was made out, and it
was filed in this court at the present term., From the time
this decree was entered, to the commencement of the ensuing
session of the Supreme Court, there were less than thirty
days. And under such circumstances it appears; by the fortythird rule, that the appellant was not required to file the transcript of the record in this court at the first term.
The rule provides, that, 11in all cases where a writ of error,
or an appeal, shall be brought to this court from any judgment
or decree rendered thirty days before the commencement of
the term, it shl be the duty of the plaintiff in error or appellante as the case may be, to docket the cause and file the
record with the clerk of this court within the first six days of
the term." If this be not done, the other party, on pioducing
the proper certificate, may have the caue docketed and the
appeal or writ of error dismissed.
The rule does not operate where a decree is entered less
than thirty days before the term of this court, and consequently the cause is not liable to be docketed and dismissed. The
appellants, under the circumstances of this case, are chargeable
with no neglect for failing, to file the record with the clerk at
the first term qf the Supreme Court after the decree was entered. The motion to dismiss is overruled.

Order.
On consideration of the motion to dismiss this cause, made
by Mr. Pendall on a prior day of the present term of this
court, to wit, on Friday, the 2d instant, and, of the argu-

60

SUP-REME COURT.
Missouri v. Iowa.

ments of counsel thereupon had, as -well in support of. as
against -the motion, it is now here -ordered by this court, that
the said motion be and the same is hereby overruled.

THE STATE OF Missounx, Cok.PLA-NANT, v. TnE STATE OP IOWA,
RESFONDENT.
THE STATE OF IOWA, -COMPLAINANT, v. "Th STATE OF MissouRi,
Cross-BW.
RESPONDENT.The western and northern boundary-lines of the State of Missouri, as described in the
first article of the constitution of that State, were as follows:--from a point in the
middle of the Kansas River, where the same empties into the Missouri Rver, running due north along a meridian line, to the intersection of the parallel of latitude which passes through the rapids of the River Des Moines, making said line
correspond with the Indian boundar-line; thence east from the point of intersection
last aforesaid, along the said parallel, to the middle of the channel-of the-main
fork of the said River Des Moines; thence, &c., &c.
The constitution of the State of Missouri was adopted in 1820. But in 1816, an
Indian-bounds ,T-linehad been run -by the'authority of the United States; which
in its north course did not terminate at its intersection with the parallel of lati-tude which passed through the rapids of the River Des Moines, and in its east
course did not coincide with that parallel, or uny parallel of latitude at all.
Missouri claimed that this north line should be continued until it intersected4a.parallel of latitude wbih passed through certain rapids in the River Des 2oines,
and from the p4nt of intersection be run eastwardly along the parallel to these
rap"as
that this Indian boundary-line was protracted too far to the noith;
Iowalimed
that by the-terin "rapids of the River'4es Moines" were meant certain rapids in
the Mississippi Rivef, known by that name, and that the parallel of latitude must
pass through these rapids; the effect of which would be to'stopthe Indian boundary-line in its progress north, before it arrived at the spot which had, been
marked by the United States surveyor.
There being a bill and a cross-bill, each State is a defendant, and this court can pass
. such a decree as the case requires.
The southern bundary-line of Iowa is coincident with, and dependent upon, the
northern boundary-line of Missouri.
Iowa is bound by the acts of its predecessor, the government of the United Stses,
which had plenary jurisdiction over he subject as long as Iowa remained a Terrtoy; and the tnited States recognized the Indian boundrylne,.-lst. By
taties made with the Indians; 2d. By the acts of the general. land-office; 3d.
-By Congressional legislation.
On the other hand, there are no rapids in the River Des Moines so conspicuous as
.
to justify the claim of MissourL
This court therefore adopts the old Indian boundary-line as the dividing line bebe run and marked by commistween the two States, and decrees that ii shabl
sioners.

THE State of Missouri filed a bill against the' State of Iowa,
in the Supreme Court of the United States, with the consetit
of the State of iowa, in order to gettle a controversy which'
had arisen respecting the' true location of the- boundary-line
which. divided the two States.

The origin of the controversy is o fully stated by Mr Jus-

