819

JANUARY TERM, 1849.
Stearns v. Page.

the actof Congress in such case made and provided, and was
argued by counsel. On cobsideration whereof, it is the opinion
of this court, that the banking associations organized under
the act of the legislature of the State of Michigan, entitled "An
act to organize and regulate banking associations," approved
,March 15th, 1837, and the amended act entitled "An act to
regulate banking associations, and for other purposes," approved December 30th, 1837, were corporations or bodies corporate within the meaning of the constitution of the State of
Michigan, ;nd that these acts of the legislature are unconstitutional aid void; whereupon it is now here ordered anm decreed by this court, that it be so certified to the said 'Circuit
Court.

GEORGE

B.

STEARNS, ADmi1NISTRATOR

DE

PAGE,'APPELLANT, V. RUFUS

BONIS

R.

NON

OF JOHN

0.

PAGE,

The general rules stated 'which govern a court of equity in opening accounts an&
sustaining
which are
by the statute of limitations.
Great
cautionclaims
is exercised,
andbarred
the complainant
is holden to stringent rules of plead.
ing and evidence.
He must state in his bill, distinctly, the particular-act of fraud, misrepresentation,

or

concealment; must specify how, when, and in what manner it was perpetrated.
The
charges
proved.
o must be definite and reasonably certain; capable of proof and cearly
.
If a mistake is alleged, it must be stat with precision and made apparent, so that
the court may rectify it, with a feeling of certainty that they are not committing
another
and perhaps
greater
mistake.averinents as to the time when the fraud, misAnd
especially
must there
be distinct
take, concealment, or misrepresentation weo discovered, and what the-discovery
is,
that the court
clearly see whether, by the exercise of ordinary diligence,
therodiscovery
might may
not have been before made.
it THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States, sitting as a court of equity, for the District of Maine.
The bill, filed by Steams
koe as administrator de bonis
of
eohn
0. Page, proposed to 'open and review the accounts of the
estate of said Page, which were filed from 1811 to 1816 by
his widow and original administratrix, Sarah Page.

The record was vei voluminous. There was a bill, and an
amended bill, ard amendments to the amended bill, and an
amendment to
of the-pe
amendments to the amended bill.
Then there were answers to all these bills, and exceptions to
the answers, and motions for the production of books and
papers; and a great mass of testimony filed. After all, the
record was deemed incomplete, and a certiorariissued to bring
up more.

820

SUPREME COURT.
Stearns v. Page.

It is unnecessary to give an extended account 6f all these
things, because the opinion of the court is so intermingled
with, -and founded upon, the facts of the case, that it is sufficent for the Reporter to refer the reader to'that opinion.
The defendant below pleaded the statute'of limitations, although he answered the bill.
In October, 1843, "the Circuit Court dismissed the bill, when
the complainant appealed to this'court.
It was argiued by Mr. Evans, for the appellant, and
r.
Allen, for the appelleer Only such parts of their arguments
will be giveri as bear upon the. question of limitations.
Mr.. vans's third point was, that the plaintiff is not barred
by the statute of limitations, nor by lapse of time.
The questions how far courts of equity are bound by statutes of limitations, and whether ex proprio vigore, or only.by
rules of their own by analogy to the statute, and how far and
under what circumstances lapse of time is a bar,. have been frequently discussed before this and other tribunals.
In many cases relief has been refused; in many cases it has
been granted.. Many general expressions have been used, and
frequent attempts been made to define with precision'the principles which govern courts in these cases. But, after all, it
comes to exactly this, -that there is and can be, in the nature.
of things, no certain' and definite rule on the subject Each
case must depend upon the exercise of a sound discretion,
growing out of the circumstances of the case. 3 Johns. Ch.
Cas. 586.
Hercy v. Dinwoody, 2 Yes. jr. 90-93, reviews the cas'es
prior to that time, and repeatedly speaks of the cirdumstances
as influencing the decision one way or the other.
What,*then, are the particular circumstances, or the nature
and kind of circumstances, which have been held to bar
relief?
Thby will-be found to be cases where the fraud was known
to the party affected by it, and who has neglected, for. a long
time, to assert his rights.
Or where the circumstances afford a presumption almost
irresistible, that the matter was adjusted and.settled by the parties in the time of it.
Or where it appears satisfactorily, that evidence has been
lost, papers burned, documents scattered, which could throw
light upon it,, thus leaving it altogether in doubt whether any
fraud were really committed.
Or where it is inequitable to grant relief; -where
there is
a want of good faith and conscience in the party seeking it;

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

821

Stearns v. Page.

as where the sureties of an executor were called in, after a long
period, to make good the fraud of his testator, &c. ; - or where
the property in question has passed into bon& fide hands, large
expenditures made, &c.
Where'this is done with -a knowledge of the party seeking
relief, it is a want of good faith to seek it. Where without his
knowledge, then it has arisen from want of reasonable diligence,
- and the court will not permit an innocent man to suffer to
help a negligent one.
Or where, on some ground of public policy, it is deemed
right not to disturb family settlements and possessions.
But in cases of actual fraud, against the party himself, I
know of no case where relief has been withheld, unless the circumstances of the case show clearly and satisfactorily that it
-was known and acquiesced in, or furnish sufficient presumption
that it was settled.
Where is the case that mere lapse of time, without such circumstances, bars relief?
What would be said to a bill charging fraud, admitted by
the answer, but repelling it by urging, You are too late. True,
I defrauded you; whether you knew it or not, I neither know
nor care. I have had the fruits of it thirty years, and I set you
at defiance. What would the court say? If they would grant
the relief, as I think they would, then it follows that mere
lapse of time, in such a state of things, is no bar.
The cases maintain this view. Any quantity of them may
be found.
Lord Erskine, in Cotterell v. Purchase, Forrester, 66, says, "No length of time can prevent tha unkennelling of a fraud."
Lord Northington, in Alden v. Gregory, 2 Eden, 285, says, "The next question is, in effect, whether delay will purge a
fraud. Never, while I sit here. Every delay adds to its injustice, and multiplies its oppression."
So in 2 Yes. jr. 281, 282. No length of time merely, a
bar. (See case.) And that was a case where no fraud imputed.
So in our own courts. Prevost v. Gratz, 6 Wheat. 481.:"It is certainly true, that length of time is no bar to a trust
clearly established; and ira case where fraud is imputed and
proved, length of time ought not, on principles of eternal justice, to be admitted to repel relief. On the other hand, it
would seem that the length of time during which the fraud has
been successfully concealed and practised is rather an aggravation of the offence, and calls more loudly upon a court of equity
to give ample and decisive relief."
In Michoud v. Girod, 4 How. 560, 561, no- length of time,
as against a party to the fraud.
69*

822

SUPREME COURT.
Stearns .v. Page.

In Warner v. Daniels, 1 Wood. & Min., on p. ill, Justice
Woodbury recognizes the general principle, that, where fraud
exists, length of time is no bar, and cites several cases, quod
vide.
So it will not'be a bar if it wotild work injustice. Other
cases cited by Woodbury, 112.
The true reason for the rule is stated in Fonblanque on Eq.
But though courts of
260 (marginal, .p. 331) in notis: -"
equity will interpose to prevent these mischiefs, which would
probably result from persons being allowed to bring forward
stale demands at any distance of time to disturb tile possessions of others, yet, as its interference in such' cases proceeds
upon the principles of conscience, it will not encourage, nor
in any manner protect, the .abuse of confidence, and therefore
no length of time will bar a fraud."
He afterwards adds, -" Unless it appears that the circumstances of the fraud were known to the party, and that with
such knowledge he has lain by a considerable length of time."
Before length of time caii operate as a bar, it must appear, ,be shown affirmatively, - that the party had knowledge.
It is important to keep this in mind. Some of the authorities speak of- "equitable circumstances" being allowed to repel the bar, from which it would seem to follow, that the burden was on plaintiff; but the true rure is, that time is not of
itself merely and per se a bar, but is made so, and may
be made so, by the circumstances of the case.
There are numerous other cases, to the effect that time
proves no bar, unless under circumstances. 10 Yes. (Sumner's edition) 423; 2 Johns. Oh. 252; Pugh's Heirs v.
Bell's Heirs, 1 J. J. Marshall; Bertine v. Varian, 1 Edw. Ch.
343.
But where a fraud appears in a stated account, the whole
will be opened,.though of a great many years' standing. Vernon
v. Vawdry, 2 Atk. 119; Whalley v. Whalley, 1 Meriv. 436;
3: Bro. Oh. Oas. (Am. ed. 1844) 646, 527, note.
This subject has been before the court recently. Attention
drawn to it in Lewis v. Beard, decided this term. They refer
to McKnight v. Taylor, 1 How. 161, and to Piatt v. Vattier,
9 Pet. 416, as containing their views of the general rules applicable to such cases.
It is to -be noticed, that all these cases were cases where
the circumstances rendered it inequitable to grant the relief,
cases of unmitigated neglect, leaving no reasonable doubt of
injustice being done by granting the relief sought.
There was no occasion, therefore, to examine the cases
where such circumstances were wainting. Adopting the prin-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

823

Stearns v. Page.

ciple applicable to such a state of facts, and almost the language of an English case, they say the court will not b'e called
into activity, unless where conscience, good faith, and reasonable diligence exist on the part of the plaintiff. Certainly.
Conscience and good faith, in not disturbing others' possegsions,
and reasonable diligence, so that no pretence of acquiescence
might arise.
But whatever effect is to'be given to lapse' of time, or. the
statute of limitations, ordinarily, it is quite clear, from all the
authorities, that it -does not begin to.operate untilthe discovery.
of the fraud. It must be full and cbmplete discovery.
In c ses of fraud, the statute begins to run from..the time of'
such full and complete disclosure as efiables the parties interested to see the nature and extent of the fraud committed.
Croft v. Administrators' of Townend, 3 Desaus. 239; Warburzee v. Kennedy, 4 Desaus. 474. See also the ca es cited
by counsel. i4 4 Howard, 552; Boone v. Chiles, 10 Peters;
223.
Vague rumors not sufficient. A party possessing imperfect
information is guilty of no laches. See cases cited by. counsel
as-before, 4 Howard 552:

In the case at bar, the discovery was made within six years
froii filing the bill. So alleged in .the bilL Not denied by
answer. -Is therefore to be taken as true,
The defendant is bound to negative particularly all circumstances alleged in the bill calculated to avoid the statute. 8
Cow. 360; 3 Johns. Ch. 384, 391; "Story on Eq. P. § 75
seq.; 6 Yes. 586; 2' Paige, 576;' same, in 11 Pick. 331;
'3et Paige,
273; and cases in any number cited in Cow. & Hill's
Phil. Ev. Discovery of paper written by J. 0. P., since bill
filed, not denied by answer.
The offer to refer to arbitrators is a waiver of the bar relied
upon. This not denied by answer. Baillie v.,Sibbald, 15 Yes.
185 ; Farnham ,.Brooks, 9 Pick. 212 ; 2 'Story Eq. § 1521,
6it
seq. ; 1 ib. §,23,et seq.
Equitable circurmstances may be' shown to repel the whole
'effect of the bar. '2 Story. Eq. § 1524. (See note on p. 737.)
There are'other equitable circumstances in the case, which
should do away the effect of the lapse of time. The books
and papers are in existence, and intelligible.
This was a reason assigned in Pickering w.'Lord Stamford,
2 Ves. jr. 585. But it appearing that the account had been so
regularly kept, that there was no dimiculty in ascertaining the
personal estate of the testat6r, &c., relief was decreed; and a
case, too, where the Master of the Rolls had said he 'should be
glad -to get rid of it.

824

SUPREME COURT.
Stearns v. Pag.:

Time has not obscured the transactions, or only to our detriment. We are the party whom time and death have injured.
The language in 4 Howard is, where the original transactions have become obscure; and'by time.
The court must see that time has actually and in fact produced its accustomed effect, before it shall operate.
Above all, where it is evident that'no such result has followed, why sliould effect be given to it?
This case differs from most others which'are reported in
this, -that
the defendant is the original party, with all his
faculties and kno.wledge fresh upon him.
Why then' should plaintiff-'the estafe of J. 0. Page -be
deprived of 'its rights? Has he or any of the representatives
been guilty of such laches as shall debar him? Upon 'what
ground will the court not-be called into activity?
. The case furnishes no presumption of payment. It.is not a
caie for presumption. The answer negatives it.
'Whatever errbr or fraud ever existed now exists. Whatever wrong was done remains.
It furnishes no evidence of acquiescence, The nature of
the wrong, afid the mode of doing-it, so far as appellants were
concerned, and proportions, three eighths, forbid almost discov
ery. The then administrator disposed to peace, a -woman. No'
means of redress then but at law ;-no means of proof; no oppprtunity for a discovery from defendant.
It seeks to disturb no innocent person's possessions, but is
against the original wrongdoer., It is not against the repre,sentatives of the oiiginl 'party, and who may be supposed to
be left without. the means of defence, &b., as in Mooers v.
White, 6 Johns. Ch. 369. It will scarcely be urged.by defendant, that, whatever errors or mistakes were committed, they did
not originate in his. representations. They 'could arise from no
other source. Nobody else had' the means of furnishing the
data. Nobody else had inducements to falsify. The answer
admits that he gave all the information in his power.
It will be said the answer'denies all fraud. This is not sufficient ; it does not deny, but admits, the gross errors which are
the result .f that fraud.
A denial of-fraud is'not sufficient nor conclusive, if the facts
and circumstances are. such as to lead to a different conclusion;
Howard v. Camp, .Walker's Ch. Rep. 427, "
Fraud may be presumed' in equity, though it must be proved
at law. Lord Chesterfield v. Jannsen, 1 Atk. 352; Denton V.
McIKenzie, 1 Desaus. 300; Warner v. Daniels, (cases cited by*
court,) lWood. & Min. 1'03; 'Watkins v. Stockett, 6 lar.
&Johns. 435; Boyden ii. Walker; 2 lb. 292.

JANUARY TERM, 1849-

25

Stearns v.' Page.

-

But if 'there remains any doubt as to the fraudulent -representations of defendant, wo are efititled to relief on the ground of
mistake.
The court will open a settlement- made by mistake, though
receipts have passed and a note has been given. 4 Desaus. 122.
" But if there has been anymistake, or omission, or accident,
or undue advantage, or.fraud, by which the account stated- is
intruth vitiated, and the balance is incorrectly fixed, a court of
equity will not suffer it. to be coficlusive upon- the parties, but
will allow it to .be opened and reexamined."
1 Story's
Eq. §523.
In some cases the whole accbunt will be opened, in others a
more moderate remedy given. lb. seq.
And though an account be settled by arbitrators, it is not
conclusive if an error can be shown in the account. PAtterson
v. Pearl*-3 Atk. 530; 1 Mad. Ch. 101.
There must be erxor dnough upon the bill to show there is
reason for it; and if plaintiff proves some of the errors, he entitles himself to a decree.. T wogood v. Swanton, 6 Yes. 486.
He may take advantage of errors in law, as well as in- fact..
Roberts v.KujfIn, 2 Atk. 112.
Mistake.is within the same rule as fraud, both as regards
time and reliefs. 2 Younge & Collier, 58, cited in 2 Storys
Eq. 739, note.
Time does not run against the remedy f6r a mistake until it
be "disevered. 4 J. J.Marshall*. 77 ; Bertine "v.Yarian, I
Edw. Ch.' 343; 1 Paige, 564. See also 1 Wood. & Min.
p. 107, cases cited by Wo6dbury, and remarks showing what
is equivalent to a fraud,- such as availing himself.of false
representations of others, enjoying fruits, &c.
The relation of these parties was of a fiduciary character,
whether it were a copartnership or not, -a relation which the
courts regard and watch with great scrutinj. - Much in any aspect was intrusted to defendant; his control was great, his
accouit large.
1 Story's Eq. 497,.note:
A settled account between attor-ney and client, or between other persons standing in confidential relations to each other, will be opened, more readily
than any others; and even, it is said, upon general allegations
of 6rror, without any errors being pointed out, when the-answer admits errors." ,
So if a partner, whl exclusively superintends the business,
of the concern, should, by concealment -ofthe trqe state'of the
affairs, purchase the'share of the other partnercfor an in'adequate price, the-purchase will be held void. 1 Story's Eq.
. 220 j' Maddeford v. Austwick, 1 Sim. 89; Smith in re Hay"
6 Had. 2: E. I. Co..v. Donald, -9Yes. 275.
-

-

-

-

-

-

SUPREME 'COURT.
Stearns v. Page.

Mr. Allen.said, that, where q,bill calls- for a general account
on the ground of fraud, it is not sufficient to make a charge
of fraud in general terms-; it should- be pointed out, and the
point-stated-., 1 Stdry's Eq. P1. 251.
This court will be governed by the decisions of tWe State
courts where the transactions arose in "the.constrgction given
by them tothe statute of limitations. 16 Peters, 455.- 457.
The statute applies to this case; 1 Mass., Laws, 28,
13th February, 1787; 1 Maine Laws, 297.
This court will not interfere after so great a lapse of time as
has passed in this ca6. "1 Howard, 161, 189. The decisions
of the State court upon the oubject are found in'3 Pickering,
212, 237-248.
Mr.Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
A brief history of the conceded facts of this case; anterior to
the filing-of the amended bill, may save the trouble of a more
tedious analysis of the bill and answer, with their numerous
amendments, and tend to, elucidate the merits of the case and
the questions decided by the court.
I
John 0. Page, the complainant's intestate, was a merchant in
Hallowell, Maine. Ele built and owned shares in vessels employed in trade, and had a retail shop or store, which, for some
years before his death, was managed by his brother, Rufus K.
Page. In 1810, John 0. Page went to England, leaving his
busines chiefly 'in the care- of, his 'brother, and died there, in
February, 1811, intestate, leaving a wid-ow
three minor
children. - Sarah Page, the widow, took out letters of administration'on the estate. "She filed an inventory of the property,
amounting to the sum of $ 64,000, and charged herself with
additional receipts of cash in the administration accounts afterwards filed, showing the whole amount of the estate to be over
-and

$ 80,000.

Rufus K. Page claimed to have been a partner with his brother in. the store, by a parol agreement with him, whereby. John
'should furnish the capital, andRufus conduct the business, dividing the profits, five eighths to John and three eighths to -Rufus.
The sureties of Sarah Page in her-administration bond were
Nathaniel Dummer, her' father-in-law, and' Thoma's Bond,
Esq., her brother-in-law, who also aided and counselled her irt
settling the estate. In February, 1812, Chandler Robins, register'of. the Probate CQurt, and John Agry, a respectable merchant and ship-owner, were mutually .4hosen by the adminis'tratrix and Rufus K. Page to settle all. accounts between the
estate-of John 0. Page and Rufus K, Page. By, their settlement
'or award;. Rufus was chaxged as debtor to John,--

827

.JANUARYTEXM, 1849.
Stearns v. Page.

For capital advanced to store,
For five eighths of profifs of store,.

.

$. 10,769.00
12,934.00

Amounting in all'to .
.
.
.
From-which was deducted John's debt to store,

.

$23,703.00

Leaving a balance due 'by Rufus to the estate,

.

7,828.00

$ 15,875.60

After adding and subtracting various other matterg. 6f account
not connected with the partnership, they found the balance due.
by.Rufus to the estate to be $17,190' of which $ 8,106 was
cash, and the remainder, $ 9,084, consisted of, John's share of
the notes and accounts due to the store, and which Rufus retained in his hands for collection. The first administration account filed by Sarah Page ackndwlddges the receipt in cash of
the sum of $ 8,106 from R. K. Page, and the accounts afterwards filed show that she had received the balance of $ 9,804,
parly in .cash and partly in notes.
Sarah Page settled the final account -of her administration on
the 20th of February, 1816. She died'in 1826. In 1828,
Stearns, the complainant; intermarried with Louisa, one of the
daughters and heirs of John 0. Page. In 1834, he took but letters of administration de bonis non'on the estate-of John 0. Page,
for the purpose of prosecuting claims under the treaty'-of the
United States with France. After this. he 'commenced an examination Qf the administration accounts of Sarah Page, and
began to entertain, suspicions that Rufus K. Page had taken advantage of her ignorance of accounts, and had defrauded her in
his settlement. And finally, at November term, 1838, more
than twenty-six years after the settlement of defendant's account, with the administratrix, this bill was filed against Rufus
K. .Page for a discovery and accbunt.
The amended bill 'abounds in generalcharges of fraud against
the defendant; alleges that he concealed from the administratrix the true 'state of the affairs of the deceased, which had
been intrusted to his care; that the partnership claimed by him
with the deceased was a 'false pretence, "and that' the said
Sarah did not distrust, or had it not.in her power to disprove,.
the same"; that the accounts exhibited of the partnership
transactions were totally false and fraudulent ind their statements
and"aggregates, calculated and designed to deceive and mislead."
It charges, alo,. that some ten thousand dollars of private
debts due by Rufus to John were intermingled with the partnership accounts so as to produce an erroneous result, and that
he had sold and converted to'his own use.'thd brig Emmeline,which ivas owned, in whole or in part, by John, and rendered
no account of the same.

828

SUPREME COURT.
Stearns v. Page.

Afterwards, in October, 1841, by a further amendment to the
bill, "the'complainant admits, that, "from means of information
which he now has," there was a partnership between Johnand Rufus, but insists that the profits were to be divided between them in the ratio of two thirds to John and one third io
Rufus.
The defendant, in his answer, after denying the general
charges of fraud and mistake, asserts, that he entered into partnership, .by parol agreement,. with his brother, John, in ,1806 ;
that the business of the firm was transacted in the name of
Rufus K. Page; that John advanced the capital, and Rufus superintended and conducted the business of the store, and the
profits- thereof were to be divided fivd eighths to John and
three eighths to Rufus; that the books of the firm were kept
on these principles, hnd always open to the inspection of John,
and frequently examined by him i, that when John advanced
money or goods for the use of the firm, he took .the rnotes of
the firm; and that defendant gave notes to John for goods and
money supplied, and (to use his own phrase) "for equalizing
the capital," to the amount of over $ 10,000; that immediately
on the a.nnouncement of the death of John 0. Page, a inventory of the goods in the store was taken and placed in thehands
df Bond, the attorney of Sarah Page, the administratrix; that
he afterwards settled fully and fairly all accounts with the
administratrix and her attorney, and produces the books, and
the statement of their final settlement as made out by Robins
and Agry, the referees chosen by the parties to make the- settlement and-adjust the, accounts, and shows, moreover, by the administration accounts filed by said Sarah, that he had paid her
the balance of over $17,000 found to be due b-y him according
to the account thus stated.
He asserts, moreover, that John owned but one half of the.
brig Emmeline, which the administratrix afterwards sold' tb
the defendant for the sum of $ 3,000, with which she charged
herself in her administration account. And finally, the answer
relies on the settlement of accounts thus made more than
twenty-five years before the filing of the bill, as a bar to all
further account, especially after so great a lapse of time,, when
papers are.lost, witnesses deald, -and transactions forgotten, and
pleads the statute of limitations.
. Statutes of limitation form a part of the legislation of every
government, and are necessary to the peace and repose of so-.
ciety. When-they are addressed to courts of equity as well as
to courts of law, as they seem to be in all cases of concurrent
jurisdiction (as in matters of account), -they are equally obligatory on each court. In other cases, courts of equity ac 'upon

JANUARY TERMI,

1'849.

829

Stearns v.' Page,

the analogy of limitations at law, and sometimes upon their
own inherent doctrine.of discouraging, for the peace of society,
antiquated demands, by refusing to interfere -,Where there has
been gross laches or, unreasonable delay. They also interfere
in many cases to prevent the bar of the statutes, where it would
be inequitable, or unjust: as, for example' if a party has perpetrated a fraud which has not been discovered till the statutable
bar may apply to it in law, courts of equity will "inL.fpose and
remove the bar out of the way of the injured party. In cases.
of mistake also, as well as fraud, they will not consider thestatute as running till after 'the discovery of the mistake, as
laches cannot be imputed to the injured party till the discovery
of the fraud or mistake has been made. 2 Story's Eq. § -1520.
*But as lapse of time necessarily obscures the truth and destroys
the evidence of past transactions, courts of chancery will exercise great caution in sustainin1g bills which seek to disturb
them: They will hold the complainant to stringent rules of
pleading and evidence, and require him to make out a clear
• case. Charges of fraud are .easily made, and lapse of timeaffords no reason for relaxing the rules of evidence or treating
mere suspicion-as proof. If a defendant can be, compelled to
open settled accounts, to explain or prove each item, after a
lapse of near thirty years, by general allegations of fraud, -if
the fraud can be proved by his -inability to elucidate past transactions after "so great a length of time, or by showing some
slips of recollection, or by contradicting him in some collateral
facts by the .frail recollection of other witnesses, -no man's
property. or reputation would be safe.
A complainant, seeking the aid of a court of chancery under.
such circumstances, must state in his bill distinctly the particular act of fraud, misrepresentation, or concealment, -must
specify how, when, and in what manner,. it was perpetrated.
The charges must be definite and reasonably certain; 'capable.
of proof, and.clearly proved. f a mistake is alleged, it must be
stated with precision, and made apparent, so that the court may
rectify it 'with a feeling of certainty that they. are not committing another, and perhaps greater, mistake. And especially
must there be distinct averments as to the time when the fraud,
mistake, concealment, or' misrepresentation -was discovered,
and what the discovery is, so that the court may clearly see,
whether, by the exercise of ordinary diligence, the discovery
might not have been before made.
Every case must, of course, depend on its own peculiar circumstances, and there would'be little profit in referring to the
very numerous-cases to be found in the books on this subject.
In the case of Michoud v. Girod, 4 How. 504, lately decided in
Vo.

VI.

70

836

SUPREME COURT.
Stearns v. Page.

this court, transactions were investigated after a lapse of more
than twenty years; but-the facts proving the fraud were all on
record, and were not disputed. The false accounts made out
against the estate of the deceased by the executors were on
file, and their iniquity was apparent on their face. Moreover,
the complainants resided in Europe, and were kept ini ignorance of their rights, and hindered from prosecuting them by
the promises, threats, and fraud of the guilty parties.
In this case, the complainant seeks to bpen an account stated
and settled twenty-six years before the filing of his bill, and
this account not rendered by the defendant to a woman unacquiainted with business, and received by her without 'examjhation, but stated from the books, by referees or arbitrators chosen
for the purpose, and in the nature of an award between the
parties, executed and acquiesced in by'both without complaint
for aquarter of a century.
Six years is a.statute bar to an action of account, both at law
and in equity. Has the complainant stated in his bill, and
sustained by proof, such a case as would justify the interference of a court of equity after sogreat a lapse of time?
1. Has he discovered any thing which was not as .open to
discovery by himself or his predecessor in the administration,
more than twenty years before?
Ii
2. Has he shown any fraud, misrepresentation, or concealment, practised by the defendant on Sarah Page, and 1 made
it palpable to the court," so that it would be justified in directing the whole account to be opened and taken de novo ?
3. Or has such clear mistake or omission been shown With
regard to any of the items of the account, that the court would
grant libefty to the complainant to surcharge and falsify generally,, or as to any particular item?
-In order to repel.tlie imputation of laches, the complainant
states that he did not take out letters of administration de bonis
non on the estate of 'John 0. Page till the year 1834, eight
years. after the death of Sarah Page, the administratrix, and, six
years ater his marriagewith one of the heirs; " that, on examining the papers and accounts, he discovered that there was
a considerable amount of property of said estate included in the
inventory which had not been administered by said Sarah in
her lifetime; that, in pursuing the inquiry, he gradually obtained information by variolis means, afforded, in the first place, by
the state of those papers, and from sundry- other sources.and
conversations'with persons now living or deceased, which prodticed the persuasion and firm belief, that.-there was- much of.
said'property in the hands: and possession'-of Rufus K. Page
which- has not been exhibited or accounted for by him,?' &c. ;

JANUA1RY TERM, 1849.

831 .

Stearns v..
Page.

"but that how far the said Sarah Page was in the knowl~dge
and possession of all the information in respect to the premises
that has come to his knowledge', he is not able to say, on account of her death before he had any reason or opportunity to
ascertain the same." It appears, therefore, that the complainant has discovered no factof which Sarah Page was ignorant.
He can specify no misrepresentation, concealment, or. fraud,.
practised by defendant, which has for the first time come ,to
light. He does not state what property was nbt. accounted for
by Sarah Page, or how she was deceived or defrauded by Rufus.
In fact, taking the vari6us bills and amendments together, it'is
very plain that this bill was filed on suspicion of fraud, and for,
the purpose of a discovery of facts from the defendant on which
to found specific, charges of fraud. It is clear, also, that these
suspicions had.their origin, not on- the discovery of any new
facts concealed from his predecessor in the administration, .but
from his necessary ignorance of facts of which Sarah*Page and
her counsel must have been fully conversant i from the' very nature and circumstances of the case.
When this bill is divested of its general and vague charges of
fraud in matters 6f which the complainant could have no personal knowledge, it might well be doubted whether it contains
sufficient matter properly set forth to entitle the complainant to
call on the defendant, after s6 great a length of time, to answer
to its allegations and make a discovery with regard to facts so
likely to be forgotten or indistincty remembered.
•But,.waiving this point, let us examine the specifications of
fraud or mistake which some attempts have been made, to substantiate.
1. The complaint about the ship Horatio being found untenable is left out of the amended bill i and need not beanoticed.
. 2. -The bill denied that any partnership had existed between
Rufus and John 0. Page; but, after taking testimony to contradict the answer in this respect, an amendment, filed in 1841,
admits the partnership, but charges that the terms were different from those stated in the answer. On this point, the answer,,
being responsive to the bill, must be -taken to be true unless
disproved by two witnesses, or something equivalent. The
memorandum in the handwriting of John 0. Page,'not being
signed by Rufus or himself, and never communicated to Rufus
or assented to by him, cannot be received as evidence of the
fact.
3. The riotes of Rufus to .John for $10,000, if given, as
stated in the answer, to sho'w the amount of capital advanced
to the store by .John, dxe fully and properly accounted for.

832:

SUPREM-E

COURT.

Stearns v. Page.

The referees .who- stated these accounts had the partnership
books and the parties before them, and could best judge how
the capital account had been kept, whether by credits in -the
books or giving the- notes of the firm, which would be the
notes -of Rufus K. Page. The parties acquainted" with the
transaction had no difficulty about it, and the mere suggestiqn
of-a.strangdr to the whole transaction, now' made, some'thirty
years afterwards, thpt possibly these *notes were the private
debt of Rufus,' and not given to represent -the capital of the
store, cannot be received ag evidence of mistake or fraud. The
answer being responsive to the bill, and uncontradicted by .. ie
evidence, is conclusive of the fact. The accounts show that
Rufus-accounted with the administratrix .for the goods of the.
'store inventoried on the decease of John 0. Page, for the capital
of the. firm,. amounting to over $10,000, and for John's share of
the profits, exceeding $12,000. The complainant has wholly
'failed to show any mistake, omission, fraud, concealment, or
:misrepresentation, on the part of Rufus K. Page, in connection
with the subject.
4. The interest of John 0. Page in.the brig Emmeline was
transferrd by -Sarah Page, the administratrix, to Rufus, and
the amount accounted for by her in the inventory and administration accounts settled by -her. Whether the money wps
paid to her Ly Rufus, as he asserts in his answer, or she madd
a gift of it to him*on account, of the known intention of her
-husband to give it"
to him 4ihis will, is wholly immaterial in
this-ease, as.the administrator de bonis non can have no concern
-with property administered and accounted for by his predec'dssor iii the trust.
In the course of the argument, the learned counsel noticed
other iteths of account, -which they alleged to be erroneously
stated or. not sufficiently explained; but as they were not
.charged in, the bill, they will not be noticed.
IThe decree of the Circuit Court must therefore be affirmed,
with costs..
Order.
This cause came on to- be heard on the transcript of the.
record from. the Circuit Court of the United. States for '-the District of Maine, and was argued by counsel.' Ori consideration
whereof, it is now here -ordered and decreed by this court, that
the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause *be; .and the
same -shereby, affirmed, wi.th costs.

