SUPREME COURT.
Peck et aL v. Jenness et al.
PHILIP PECK AND 'WILLIAM: BELLOWS, COPARTNERS, TRADING UNDER
THE FIRX OF PHILIP PECK AND COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,
V. JOHN S. JENNESS, J6HN GAGE, AND JOHN E. LYON, TRADING
UNDER aE NAME AND FiRM OF JENNESS, GAGE, AND CoM5PANY,
DEFENDANTS

IN ERROR.

The -proviso of the, second section of the bankrupt act passed on the 19th of
August, 1841, preserves all liens which may be valid by the laws of the'States"
respectively.
In some of the States, attachments are issued on mesne process, by which the prop-i
erty seized is held to await the result of the suit. This constitutes a lien, which is
saved ,by the proviso in the bankrupt act.
The various kinds of liens explained.
Therefore, where an attachment was issued and the defendants afterwards applied
for the benefit of the bankrupt act, a plea of bankruptcy was not sufficient to prevent a judgment from being rendered condemning the property under attachment.
The fourth section of the statute, if it stood alone, would make a plea of bankruptcy
a good plea in bar in discharge of all debts; but if the whole statute be construed
together, this is not the result.
A rejoinder, setting forth that the District Court of the United States had decided
that the attachment was not a valid lien upon the property, was not a good re-

joinaer.

The District Court could not oust the State court of its jurisdiction, which had alI
ready attached.

Tis case was brought up from the Superior Court of Judicature for the State of New Hampshire, by a writ of error,
issued under the twehty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
Peck and Bellows were residents of the town of Walpole, in
the county of Cheshire and State of New Hampshire., Jenness,
Gage, and Company resided in Boston.
The facts in the case are sufficiently set forth in the opinion.
of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Goodrieh, on behalf of the defendants
in error.
C. B. Goodrich, for defendants in error
In October, 1842, the plaintiffs below sued out a process of
attachment, upon which estate of the defendants below, real and
personal, was attached. This process issues without the sanction of any judicial officer. It issues at the will of any one -who
assumes to be a creditor of the party against whom it issues.
It is a proceeding in personan and in rem, - is available as
the one or the other, as the party may elect.
The question for adjudication is whether the original plaintiffs can avail themselves of this process as a proceeding in
rem. Howland, who is the several assignee of each of the'
original defendants, is in no proper sense a party to -the record.
He appears in the names of Peck and Bellows, and ielies upon,
their rights. 5 Stat. at Large, 443, ch. 9. § 3.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

613

Peck et al. v. Jenness et aL

Statutes operate upon property, contracts, or persons. The
statutes of the United States and those of a State may operate upon the same property, the same contracts, the same
persons. Their action is distinct in time, or in purpose, or
both. The operation of 'the two jurisdictions, each within
prescribed limits, is independent.
Courts of equity cannot, in this country, in all things, exercise the same power, to the same extent, as-do courts of equity in England. Courts of the United States and. those of
the States have a different origin; their jurisdictions are for
different puiposes. The one court will exercise its control over
the citizen, so as npt to impair his ability to yield obedience
to the other, whon and where such obedience is due. The
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States and of the several States can never rightfully come in collision; where the
concurrent, the one which first attaches will rejurisdiction is,
tain it. There are only two modes in which a suit rightfully
instituted in a State court can be proceeded in, or controlled by,
the courts of the United States; the one is by transferthe
other under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act. The
courts of the United. States are invested with .the exclusive
power of construction of the laws and treaties of the United
States ; courts of the several States construe the laws thereof;
the construction of each, within its appropriate sphere, is obligatory upon the other,
When a statute of the United States adopts or engrafts
upon itself a statute or law of. one of the States, quoad the
law adopted, the constructio.-i of such law, at the time of its
adoption, by the highest judicial tribunal of the State whose
law is adopted is also adopted. . If this be not so, the same
law, acting within the same territory and upon the same person, may mean one thing in one court-room, something else
in another. A State law adopted by the Jaws of the United
States does not cease to be a State law. The jurisdiction of
the District Court of the United States, sitting in' bankruptcy,
over property, is coextensive with the effect produced by the
decree of bankruptcy; which is to pass the property of the
bankrupt, cum onere.
The judgment of the court below should be affirmed, and I
submit, I. That the District Court of the United States for the
District of New Hampshire acquired no jurisdiction of 'the
several original petitions of Philip Peck and of William Bellows to be declared bankrupt, and its proceedings upon said
several petitions are void. This is so, because the pleas do
not aver or show that the petitions were verified by oath,
52
VOL. vIr.

614

SUPREME COURT.
Peck et al. v. Jenness et al.

without' which oath and verification the petitions were nullities; because the pleas do not aver that the petitioners represented to said District Court that they owed debts not created in
consequence of a defalcation as a public officer, or as executor,
administrator, guardian, or while acting in any other judiciary
character ; because the pleas do not aver or exhibit the notice
which was ordered, or which was published, of the time when
the said several original applications to be declared bankrupt.
would be considered. 5 Laws U. S. 440, ch. 9, § 1; United
States v. Marvin, 3 How. 620 ; Elliot v. Pie'rsol, 1 Peters, 338 ;
Ex parte Bollman, 4 Cranch, 93; Sharp v. Spier, 4 Hill, N. Y.
76; Sharp v. Johnson, 4 Hill, 92; Bank of Utica v. Rood, 4
Hill, 535; 2 Christian's Ban. Law, q0, 21, 22; Cooper on
Bank. Sta. 165; Buckland v..Newsome, 1 Taunt. 477; Sackett v. Andros, 5 Hill, 330; Stephens v. Ely, 6 *Hill, 608;
Brereton v. Hill, 1 Denio, 75; Varnum v. Wheeler, I Denio,
331; Maples v. Burnside, 1 Denio, 332; Thatcher v. Powell,
6 Wheat. 119; Wilcox v. Jackson, -13 Peters; 511, 516, 517;
Walden v. Craigg's He rs, 14 Peters, 147; Hickey v. Stewart,
.3 How. 762 ; Wheeler v. Townsend, 3 Wend. 247 ; Gordon
v. Wilkinson, 8 D. & E. 507; 1 Chitty on Plead. 223; Owen on Bank. App. 25; Archbold on Bank. App. 9, and 97;
Wyman v. Mitchell, 1 Cow. 316; Frary v. Dakin, 7 Johns.
75; 'Ex parte Balch, 3 McLean, 221; United States v. Clark,
8 Peters, 444, 445; Garland v. Davis, 4 How. 131.
II. The several rejoinders of the original defendants, and
the matters therein set up, amount in law to a departure from
their several pleas. 1 Chitty, on Plead. 648.
III. The statute of the United States, in relation to bankruptcies, passed Aug. 19, 1841, as to all matters of lies and
securities adopts the laws of the States, respectively, and exempts from the operation of the decree of- bankruptcy all property which, at the time of the decree, might be charged with
any duty, lien, or security valid by the law of the State in
which the duty, lien; or security might arise.
This position is sustained by the language of the act, and is
in consonance with the uniform policy of the United, States,
which has been to adopt the laws, usages, and modes of proceeding of the several States'so far as practicable. 1 Laws, 92,
1789, ch. 20, § 34; 1 Laws, 93, 1789, ch. 21, § 2; 1 Laws,
276, 1792, ch. 36, § ; 4 Laws, 278, 1828, ch. 68, §-1; 4
Laws, 281,'ch' 68, § 2; 1 Laws, 79, ch. 20, § 12; 2 Laws,
123, ch. 32,.§ 3; 1 Laws, 106, ch. 5; 5 Laws, 393, ch. 43,
§ 4; 5 Laws, 394, ch. 47, § 1; 5 Laws, 321, ch. 35; 5 Laws,
410, ch. 2, § 1.
An attachment, on mesne process was known' to the laws of

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

615

Peck et al. v. Jenress et aL

the United States, as a lien and security, and recognized by its
judiciary, prior to the bankrupt statute. 1 Laws, 602, ch. 75,
§ 16; 3 Laws, 33, ch. 16, § 28; 3 Laws, 83, ch. 56, § 6 ; 1
Laws, 594, ch. 71, § 15; United States v. Graves, 2 Brock.
381; Tyrell's Heir§' v. Rountree, 1 McLean, 95; S. C., 7 Peters, 464; Beaston. v. Farmers" Bank of Delaware, 12 Peters,
102; Wallace v. McConnell, 13 Peters, 151.
I now recur to the position, that the bankrupt statute adopts
liens which are so by the laws of the several States. Its correctness is evident from the proviso in the second section of
the act, and from the fact that the act professes to pass only
such propertylas the bankrupt might convey; the act gives
him no new right of property, or power over it. Ex parte
Christy, 3 How. 316, fully sustains the principle, in which
the court say, "There is no doubt that the liens, mortgages, and
other securities within the purview of this proviso, so far as
they are valid by the State laws, are not to be annulled,
destroyed, or impaired under the proceedings in bankruptcy,
but they are to be held of equal obligation and validity in the
courts of the United States as they woivld .be in the State
court." It is not necessary to ascertain what constitutes a
lien at common law, in equity or admiralty, or in the civil
law. The lien protected is such a one as is kbown to the
law of the State in which the question arises. Savage v. Best,
3 How. 119; Norton v. Boyd, 3 How. 436. How will this
court ascertain what constitutes. a lien by the laws of New
Hampshire ? By a resort to thie adjudications of its highest judicial tribunal; this course is in conformity with general principles and with the course of this 'court. Green v. Neal, 6 Peters, 295; Livingston v. Moore, 7 Peters, 542; Jackson v.
Chew, 12 Wheat. 153; Shelby v. Guy, 11 Wheat. 361.
IV. An attachment on mesne process, ,on the 19th of August, 1841, and on the 10th of October, 1842, was a lien or
security valid by the laws of the State of New Hampshire.
In support of this, I refer to the laws of New Hampshire,
edition of 1830, pp. 58, 59, 101, 105, 106 ; to Kittridge v. Warren and Kittridge v. Emerson, in manuscript, not yet reported.
These cases, and the authorities cited in them, exhibit the law
of New Hampshire as it has been recognized from its early
history. The principle is sustained by the courts'of other
States. Kilborn v. Lyman, 6 Met. 304; Hubbard v. Hamilton
Bank, 7 Met. 342; Am. Ex. Bank v. Morris Canal Co., 6 Hill,
N. Y. 367; Storm v. Waddell, 2 Sandford, Ch. R. 494; Davidson v. Clayland, 1 Harr. & Johns. 546. I refer, also, to
an opinion of a distinguished jurist, Hon. Jeremiah Mason,
which sustains the views submitted.

616

SUPREME COURT.
Peck et al. v. Jenness et al.

In opposition to the two last positions, Ex plarte Poster, 2
'Story., 131, is relied' upon. I submit that the authorities relied upon in this case do not support the judgment pronounced.
The cases mainly relied upon in Ex parte Foster are AtlasBank v. Nahant Bank, 23 Pick. 488; Canard v. Atlantic Ins.
-Co., 1 Peters, 386, 441, 443; Giles v.-Grover, 6 Bligh, 279.
An examination of them will show that they sustain, so far as
applicable, the views which I -have presented; the case of
,Giles v. Grover proceeded entirely upon the ground of pre:
:rogative, and it was so regarded in a subsequent case. Godson
v. Sanctuary, 1 Nev. & Mann. 52.
The case Ex parte Foster is not sustained by the reasons;
-our answer to themis complete. A statute lien is exactly what
'the statute makes 't, and it derives no aid from the analogies
of other liens. Several of the adjudications of this court, to
which I have referred, are in opposition to the doctrines of Ex
parte Foster.
-V. Assuming that the bankrupt statute adopts the laws of
the States respectively as 'to liens and securities, and that an
attachment on mesne process, as recognized by the laws of
New Hampshire, is regarded by such law as a valid lien or
-security, it results, ex necessitate, that a discharge of' the bankrupt does not and cannot defeat a lien or security rightfully
created and existing prior to any act of bankruptcy.
Assuming the third and-fourth propositions as sound, the
one now, taken is a necessary deduction from them. It is sustained by-the express terms of the proviso. It is so independent of the proviso. 'The decree of bankruptcy passes the property, and its effect cannot be enlarged or diminished by the
discharge, or by a -denial of the discharge, to the bankrupt.
An attachment is of double aspect; it is a proceeding in personam and in rem; so far as it is' in personam, the discharge
is a protection; so, far- as it is in remn, the discharge cannot
avail to destroy a right which the act protects. It is clearly
competent for the court 'to render a judgment in rem, and thus
uphold. every part of the act. Wallace v. Blanchard, 3 N. H.
395 ; Qhickering v. Greenleaf, 6-N. H. 51 ; Buxton v. Mdrden,
1 D.-& E. 80; Steward -v. Dunn, 11 Mees. & Welsby, 63;
Newton v. Scott, 4 Mees.' & Welsby, .434"; S. C., 10 Mees. &
Welsby, 471. Whether the court of New- Hampshire has
power to render-a conditional judgment where the law and
justice require such judgment is a m~tter exclusively cognizable by that. court.
VI. The order of the District Court exhibited in the rejoinders is not an authority, within the meaning of the twenty-fifth section of the' Judiciary Act of 1789; and if it be such

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

617

Peck et al. v. Jenness et al.

authority,-neither Peck nor Bellows claims title under it; for
which reasons, the decision of the State court upon the effect
of such order cannot be regxamined in this court.
A judgment of a court of the United States must be enforced by itself. If the party relies upon it in a State court,
he must be content with such effect as the State court gives-I.
it; otherwise, causes will come here indirectly, which cannot,
under the laws of the United States, come here directly. Osborn v. United States, 6 Wheat. 738; Montgomery v. Hernandez, 12 Wheat- 129; Williams v. Norris, 12 Wheat. 117;
Crowell v. Randall, 10 Peters, 368 ; Mackay v. Dillon, 4 How.
447; Owings v. Norwood, 5 ' Cranch, 334; Hickie v. Starke,
1 Peters, 98.
VH. The 'District Court had no jurisdiction to -hake the
order which is set up in the several rejoinders of the defendants below. It is an attempt by the District Court, contrary
to the provisions ot the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary
Act, to exercise appellate jurisdiction over the State court. The
property, at the time the order was made, was in custodia legis. Ashton v. Heron, 2 Mylne & Keene, 390; 2 Story's
Eq. § 891. Ex parte Christy admits that the District Court
cannot reach the State courts; if it can reach their offices, the
protection is of no value. Ship Robert Fulton, '1 Paine, 620;
Hogan v. Lucas, 10 Peters, 403; Brown v. Clark, 4 How. 4;
Knox v. Smith, 4 How. 316 ; Harris v. Dennie, 3 Peters, 294;
Ex parte Bellows and Peck, 2 StoEx parte Dorr, 3 How. 103 ;"
ry, 443; Slocum v. Mayberry, 2 Wheat. 1.
I have assumed, so far, that all the doctrines of 'Ex parte
Christy are to be sustained by this court. 'I submit, however,
1"that a suit rightfully instituted in a State court, before the institution of proceedings in a court of the United States, cannot be arrested by injunction from any court of *the United
If this be not so, our complex system of governStates."
ment cannot be upheld. 1 Laws, 334, 335, ch. 22, § 5; Annis v. Smith, 16 Peters, 313. This proposition is in harmony
with the analogy which may be drawn from the English law
of bankruptcy. Ex parte Pease, 19 Ves. 46 ; Ex parte Heath,
M6n. & Bligh, 171; Ex parte Bocherley, 2 Glyn & Jam. 369;
Ex parte Tindal, Buck, 305.
VIII. The order of the District Court can have no effect
upon the rights of the paities before this court. The defendants in error were not parties to the proceeding before the District Court. The order is, ii-personam, against the sheriff and
his deputy, and does not reach, or in any manner fasten upon,
the property. Ramsey v. Eaton, 10 Mees. & Welsby, 22; Bellows and Peck, 3 Story, 428; Marshall v. Beverley, 5 Wheat.
52*

618

SUPREME COURT.
Peck et al. v. Jenness et al.

313; Conn v. Penn, 5 Wheat. 424; Russell v. Clark, 7
Cranch, 69; Aspden v. Nixon, 4 How. 497, 498; Hollingsworth v. Barber, 4 Peters, 475.
IX. The several petitions of Peck and of Bellows to ,be declared bankrupt do not aver the' insolvency or -inability of
Philip Peck & Co., as a firm, to pay its debts; and the several
decrees of bankruptcy do not subject the joint or partnership
property to the action of the bankruptcies. The fourteenth
section of the bankrupt statutes especially provides for the
case of partnerships. Taylor v.Feilds, 4 Ves. 396; Ex parte
Ruffin, 6 Ves. 126; Young v. Keighly, 15 Ves. 557; Dutton,,
v. Morrison, 1 Rose, 213; Ex parte Farlow, 1 Rose, 421;
Shriver v.Lynn, 2 How. 43.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendants in error, Jenness, Gage, & Co-, instituted
this suit against Philip Peck and William Bellows, in the
Court of Common Pleas of Cheshire county, New Hampshire, demanding the sum of $ 2,000, for goods sold and delivered. The action was served according.to the practice of that
State, on the 10th of October, 1842, by the'attachment of the
goods, chattels, and lands of the defendants. Ther cause was
continued till April term, 1844, when ,Aargn P. Howland, assignee in bankruptcy of eachi of the defendants, was, on motion,.admitted by the court to come in and defend in their
names; He pleaded severally- their application to the District
Court of the-United States, at Portsmouth,.on the 26th of November, 1842, for the benefit of the bankrupt law ;on which
-they Were decreed bankrupts; on the 28th day of December,
'1842. That- Howland was appointed assignee, and. that defendants severally received a certificate of discharge on the
•21st of June, 1843.
To these pleas the plaintiffs 'below replied, 'that, 'before the''filing of said petitions by the defendants, to wit, on the 8th of
'October, 1.842, the plaintiffs in good faith sued and prosecuted
out of the Court of Common Pleas their writ of attachment
against the defendants for a just debt_; by virtue of which the
sheriff attached and took into his custody and possessi, n, as
,security for such judgment as the plaintiffs "intheir said- suit
might obtain, certain goods and chattels on a schedule anndxed, and now retains the custody thereof; and therefore"
piay judgment to be levied of the same.
To this replication the defendants rejoined, that Howland,
th assignee, on the 25th of .Iuly, 1843, presented to the Disirict Court of the United States a petition, setting forth the
-plaintiffs' attachment of the goods, and. averring that such at-

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

•619

Peck et al. v. Jenness et al.

tachment was not a valid lien on the said goods, and that
therefore the sheriff had.no right to detain them; and prayed
the court to order and decree that the sheriff shofild 'deliver
the goods to the assignee, or account for their value: and that
the court, after ffotice to the parties and hearing, had decreed
accordingly.
To these rejoinders the plaintiffs demurred; and the Court
of Common Pleas entered their judgment, as follows: "That the plaintiffs recover against the said Philip -Peck and
William Bellows $1818.87, damages and costs of suit; which
sums are to be levied only of the goods and chattels and estate of the defendants attached upon the plaintiffs' Writ aforesaid, and describea in the plaintiffs' said replications, and not
otherwise."
This judgment of the Court of Common Pleas was removed by writ of error to the Superior Court of Judicature of
the State of New Hampshire, at the instance of the defendants; and, on hearing the judgment of the'.court below, was.
affirmed.
.The defendants, now plaintiffs in error, then prosecuted
their writ of error to this court, under the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act of 1789. As the record shows that the
highest court of judicature of th State of New Hampshire
has decided against a title claimed fnder a statute of the United States, it is clearly a proper case for the revision of this
court. Various questions have been made on the argument of
this case, as to the regularity of the b~nkrupt proceedings, and
the validity of tfie certifleates of discharge set forth in the"
pleas of the defendants below. But we do not think it necessary to notice them; and shall therefore assume that the
bankrupt proceedings are regular, and properly set forth in the
pleas.
I. The first: question that will present itself for our consideration will be, whether the replication of the plaintiffs below'
sets forth matter in avoidance of the plea which will entitle
them to the judgment prayed for, and afterwards rendered by,
the court. In order to test its sufficiency, we must first inuire, whether an attachment of property under the process
peculiar'to New Hampshire and some other States creates a
lien or security on the property attached, within the true
meaning and intention of the proviso of the second section of
the bankrupt act.
The words of this proviso are as follows " And provided,
hlso, that nothing in this act contained shall be construed to
annul, destroy, or impair any lawful rights ofmarried women,
or any liens, mortgages, or other securities on property, real or

620

SUPREME COURT.
Pec k et dL v. Jenness et al.

personal, which may be valid by the laws of the States respectively, and which .are not- inconsistent with the provisions
of the second and fifth sections of this act."
As it is not alleged that the attachment in this case is subject to any imputation of in.onsistency with-the provisions of
the second and fifth sections of the act, it will not be' necessary to give them further attention. Taking the words of the
proviso, -disconnected with this exception, they are of the
most general and expansive character; they are equivalent to
a saving of all liens or securities, &c., from any construction
of the act that slhall in any wi e annul, destroy, or impar
them; and, furthermore, to test their validity, we are referred
to the laws of the States respectively.
At common law there can be no lien without possession.
It is there defined, a right in one man to retain that which is
in his possession belonging to another,.till certaii demands of
him, the person in possession, are satisfied. (Hammond v. Barclay, 2 East, 235.) In maritime law-, liens exist independently
of possession, either actual or constructive. In courts of equity,
*the term lien is used as synonymous with a charge or encumbrance upon a thing, where there is neither jus in re, nor ad
rem, nor possession of the thing. Hence a judgment which,
by virtie of the statute of Westminster-2d, (commonly called
the Statute of Elegit,) is a charge upon the lands of the debtor, is called in courts of equity in England, and in the courts
of law of many of these States, a lien, and executions which
bind the personal property of the -debtor, after their delivery
to the sheriff, are termed liens, both before and after the prop.erty is seized and taken into the custody of the law by its
officer. In the case of Waller v. Best, 3 Howard, 111, this
court decided that in Kentucky the creditor* obtains a lien
upon the property. of his debtor by the delivery-of a fi.fa. to
the sheriff, and this lien is as absolute before the levy as'after;
and that a creditor is not deprived of this lien by an act of
'bankruptcy on the part of the debtor, committed before the
levy is made, but after the execution is in the hands'of the
sheriff; and "it is unnecessary," say the court, "to remark
upon the cases which have been decided -inother States, or in
England, because the question depends altogetier upon the law
of Kentucky."
It would be an, arbitrary and fanciful exposition of the terms
of this proviso to say. that it saved common-law liens, and
not statute liensj. liens after judgment, and not liens before
judgment ; or to -assert that it is the policy of the bankrupt
act to save the lien of a factor or bailee, while it annuls that
of the-jAdgment or execution creditor.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

621

Pek et al. v. Jenness et al.

It is clear, therefore, that whatever is a valid lien or security.
upon property, real or personal, by the laws of any State, is exempted by the .express language of the act.
Let us inquire, then, whether an attachment on mesne process is a valid lien or security on the property attached by the
laws of New Hampshire, as expounded by her courts.
This species of process is peculiar to the New England
States. As early as the year 1650, while New Hampshire was
united to the Massachusetts colony, it was enacted,' that
"henceforth goods attached upon any action shall not 'be released upon the appearance of,the party or judgment, but shall
stand engaged until the judgment or the execution granted on
the same be discharged."
(Charters and Colony Laws, 50.)
And. a proviso was added in 1659, that, when. execution was
not taken out within one month after judgment, the attachment shall be released and void in law, &c.
The earliest provincial legislation of New Hampshire adopted
the same system, which has been continued with some variations to the present day. In 1718, they describe the 'goods attached as "security to satisfy the judgment" which the plaintiff might recover on the trial. (Provincial Laws N. H. 113.)
In the statute of July, 1822, and of November sessions, 1842,
ch. 2,. the charge or encumbrance created by an attachment is
denominated a lien.
The mode of proceeding and practice, as at present established, under writs of attachment in the State of New Hampshire,
is thus described by the Superior Court of that State, in the
case of Kittridge v. Warren.
"1In an attachment of personal estate, the sheriff, upon the
service of the writ, takes the possession of the goods, and acquires thereby a special property in them, for the purpose of
enforcing and protecting the attachment, and the rights of all
concerned in the attachment and in the goods. He is then
accountable, both to the plaintiff and to the defendant, for the
disposition of them. If the plaintiff obtains a judgment, they
are seized and sold upon the execution. If he fails, they are
returned to the debtor. Some person may become accountable
for them, and they may thus go back into the hands of the
debtor, and the attachment be dissolved; the sheriff having,
by means of a receipt for them, the security of some third person, which is in that case to be made available to the creditor.
But if the attachment is not dissolved, it fastens itself upon the
goods, as a charge or encumbrance, like the attachment upon
real estate, and the avails of them. are first to be applied to the
satisfaction of the judgment, when recovered. Subsequent attachments may be made upon. them by the same sheriff, and

SUPREME COURT.
Peck et al. v. Jenness et al.

where there are several attachments, the attaching creditors
have a right, to priority of satisfaction, so far as those goods are
conderned, not by priority of judgment, but by that of the attachment. Poole v. Symonds, 1 N. Hamp. 292, 294; Bissell
v. Huntington, 2 ib. 142; Hackett -v. Pickering, 5 ib. 24;
Kittredge v. Bellows, 7 ib.428; Clarke v. Morse, 10 ib. 238."
The statute of elegit has never been adopted in this State,
and hence a judgment is not treated as a ciarge or lien on the
lands of the defendant, and the reason would seem to be, because the plaintiff could select his seburity upon specific property by, his attachment a'tthe commencement of his suit, and
hold it for thirty days after judgment for the purpose of satisfaction:. Hence their courts have denominated the charge or
security thus obtained a lien. (See Dunken v. Fales, 5 N.
Hamp. 538; Kittredge v. Bellows, 7 ib.427; Clarke v.ZMorse,
10 lb. 238; Burnam v. Folsom, 5 ib.568;, Kittridge v. Warren; 1Kittridge v. Emerson, &c.)
I In Massachusetts, also, the charge or encumbrance created
by an 'attachment is denominated a lien. 'See 9 Mass. Rep.
.210; Fettyplace v. Dutch, 13 Pick. 392; Arnold v. Brown, 24
Pick. 95; Kilbom v. Lyman,.6 Met. 299, &c. In Connecticut, also, see Carter v. Champion, 8 Conn. 550.
Having thus shown that an attachment on mesne process
creates a charge on the property attached in favor of the plaintiff, which is, in the language of the statutes and -courts of New
Hampshire, called a security and a lien, it will. be unnecessary
to notice arguments which have been urged against them on
the ground of their peculiarities or distinctive features. The
mere accidents of the subject cannot alter its essence. It is a
statute lien, and therefore as much protected by the general
language of the proviso.as a common law lien.
II. Could thlglien be defeated by the interposition of the
plea of bankruptcy as a bar to a judgment in favor of the
plaintiff?
By the fourth section of the act, it is declared, that "the
certificate or discharge, when duly granted, shall, in all courts
of justice, be.deemed a full and complete discharge of all debts,
contracts, and other engagements of such bankrupt which are
provable under this act, and shall or may be pleaded as, a full
and complete bar to all suits brought in any court of judicature
whatever." And it is contended, as the lien of the attachment was defeasible, and could only be rendered absolute and
of practical benefit to the plaintiff by the recovery of a judgment for his demand, which is effectually barred by the plea,
that therefore the action and the lien mqst fall together.
This conclusion would be undoubtedly correct, if we con-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

623

Peck et al. v. Jenness et al.
strue this section of the act by itself, and without regard to
other provisions of the same act.
But it is among the elementary principles with regard to the
construction of statutes, that every section, provision, and
clause of a statute shall be expounded by a reference.to every
other; and if possible, every clause and provision shall avail,
and have the effect contemplated by the legislature. One portion of a statute should not be construed to annul or destroy
what has been clearly granted by another. The most general
and absblute terms of one section may be qual'ified and limited
by conditions and exceptions contained in another, so that all
may stand together.
-The proviso to the second section of this act declares, "that
nothing in this act contained shall be construed to annul, destroy, or impair," any liens, &c. Here, then, is an absolute
prohibition to the court to construe the general terms of the
fourth section so as to defeat the lien saved by the second. It
is clear, therefore, that the court, while it grants the defendant
the benefit of his discharge, must do it in such a manner as not
to impair the rights saved to the plaintiff. All liens,, whether
by mortgage or judgment, by common law or by statute, are
for the purpose of obtaining satisfaction of some ddbt or claim;
and the construction of the fourth section which would treat
the bankrupt's certificate as an absolute discharge from all his
debts, for every purpose, would be alike destructive of them all.
The mortgagee, the factor,.or the bottomry lender, is in no
better condition than the judgment or attachment creditor.
And an attempt to make a distinction between them, which
would save the rights of one, and impair or destroy those of
the other, would be judicial legislation, -jus dare, not jus
dicere. In order, therefore, to give full effect to all the provisions of the act, the bankrupt's certificate must be made to
operate as a discharge of his person and future acquisitions,
while, at the same time, the mortgagees or other lien creditors
shall be permitted to have their satisfaction out of the property
mortgaged or subject to lien. A legal right without a remedy
would be an anomaly in the law.
The judgment rendered in this case has fully attained both
these objects. While it discharges the defendant from personal
liability, it saves to the plaintiffs below their remedy, and
awards their satisfaction out of the property attached, "and not
otherwise." The books are full of precedents for such a judgment. When an administrator pleads plene administravit,the
plaintiff may admit the plea, and take judgment of assets,
quando acciderint. When the defendant pleads a discharge of
his person under an insolvent law, the plaintiff may confess the

624

SUPREME COURT.
Peck. et aL v. Jenness et al.

plea, and have judgment to be levied only of defendant's future
effects. L Chitty, P. 548.
III. The only question that remains to be considered is,
whether the rejoinder of the defendants below is a sufficient
answer to the replication.
It sets up, by way of avoidance of the attachment pleaded in
the replication, that the District Court of the United States, on
the petition of the assignee, and on notice to the 'plaintiff in
this suit, had decreed that ,ths attachment was not a lien on
the property in the custody c" +he sheriff, and ordered him to
deliver it up to' the assignee, or account to him for its value.
It does not pretend to show how the proceedings in the Court
of Common Pleas had beQn removed to the District, Court, or
how its judgment on the cause- pending before it could be thus
anticipated; nor that the District Court had found any means
of enf6rcing its decree by compelling the sheriff to deliver the
property attached to the assignee, and thus, in effect, destroy
the lien: but it seems to rely on, the decree as a judgment on
the question, which shou!4 operate by way of estoppel. This
necessarily involves the inquiry, whether the District, Court
was vested with any power or authority to oust the Court of
Common Pleas of its jurisdiction over the cause, aad supersede
its judgment, by this summary proceeding.
The District Court has exclusive jurisdiction "of all suits
and proceedings 'in bankruptcy." But the suit pending before
the Court of. Common Pleas was not a suit. or proceeding in
bankruptcy; 'and although the plea of bankruptcy was interposed, by the defendants, the court was as competent to entertainand judge of that plea as of any other. It had full and
complete jurisdiction over the parties and the subject.-matter of
the suit; and its jurisdiction had attached moie than. a -month
befere any act of bankruptcy was committed. 'It was an independent trihunal, not deriving.its authority from the same* sovereign, and, as .regards the District .Court, a foreign-'forum, in
every way its equal. The District Court had no supervisory
power over it. The acts of Congress point o.nt but. one 'hode
by which the judgments of State courts can be revised or annulled, and that is by this courti under the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act.~ In cer'ain cases, where one of the parties is a citizen of another State, he has the privilege of removing his suit to the courts of the United States. But: in all
other respects, they are to be regarded as equal and independent tribunals.
It is a doctrine of law too long established to require a citation of authorities, that, where a court has jurisdiction, it has a
right to decide every question which occurs in the cause, and

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

625

Peck et al. v. Jenness et al.'
whether its decision be correct or otherwise, its judgment, till
reversed, i§ regarded as binding in every other court; and thati
where the jurisdiction of a court, and the right of a plaintiff to
prosecute his suit iri it, have bnce attached, that right cannot
be arrested or taken away by proceedings in another court.
These rules have their foundation, not merely in comity, but
on necessity. For if one may enjoin, the other may retort by
injunction; and thus the parties be without remedy; being
liable to a process for contempt if one, if they dare to proceed
in the other. Neither can one take property from the custody
of the other by replevin or any other process, for this would
produce a conflict extremely embarrassing to the administration
of justice. In the case of Kennedy v. The Earl of Cassilis,
Lord Eldon at one time granted an injunction to restrain a
party from proceeding in 'a suit pending in the Court of Sessions of Scotland, which, on.more mature reflection, he dissolved; because it was admitted, if the'Court of. Chancery
could in that way restrain proceedings in an independent foreign tribunal, the Court of Sessions might -equally enjoin the
parties from proceeding in chancery, and thus they would be
unable to proceed in either court. The fact, therefore, that an
injunction issues only to the parties before the court, and not
to the court, is.no evasion of thedifficulties that are the necessary result of an attempt to exercise that power over a party
who is a litigant-in another and 9pdependent forum.
The act of Congress of the 2d of March, 1793, ch. 66, § 5,.
declares that a writ of injunction shall not be granted "to stay
proceedings in any court of a State." In the case of Diggs v.
Wolcott, 4 Cranch, 119, the decree of the Circuit Court had
enjoined the defendant from proceeding in.a suit pending in a
State court,'and thiscourt reversed the decree, because it had
no jurisdiction to enjoin proceedings in a State court.
It follows, therefore, that the District Court had no supervisory power over the State court, either by injunction or the
more summary method pursued in this case, unless it has been
conferred by the bankrupt act. But we cannot discover any
provision in that act which limits +he jurisdiction of the State
courts, or confers any power on the bankrupt court to supersede their jurisdiction, to annul or anticipate their judgnrents, or
wrest property from the custody of their officers- On the contrary, it provides that "all suits in law and equity thei pending, in which such bankrupt is a party, may be prosecuted and
defended by such assignee to its final conclusion, in the same
way and with the same effect as they might have been by such
bankrupt."
Instead of drawing the decision of the case into the District
voL. M.
53

626

SUPREME COURT.
Colby v. Ledden.

Court, the act sends the assignee in bankruptcy to the State
court where the suit is pending;,and admits its power to decide
the cause. It confers no authority on the District dourt to
restrain proceedings therein by injunction or any other process,
much less to take, property out of its custody or possession with
a strong hand. An attempt to enforce the decree set forth in
the rejoindero.vould probably have been met with resistance,
and resulted in a collision -of jurisdictions much to be depre11
cated.
In fine, we can find no precedent for the proceeding set
forth in this plea, and no grant of power to make such decree
or to execute it, either in direct terms or by necessary implication, from any provisions of the bankrupt act; and we are not
at liberty to interpolate it on any supposed grounds of policy
or expediency.
The plea cannot, therefore, be sustained, and the judgment
of the Superior Court of New Hampshire must be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record of the Superior Court of Judicature of the State of
New Hampshire, and was argued by counsel. On consideration-whereof, it is nor here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Superior Court of Judicaturq be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs and damages
at the rate of six per centum per annum.

AwuarA~i COLBY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v.

J.&iqrs

LEDDEN.

The decision of this. court in the preceding case of Peck v. Jenness ffnrmed.

THIS, like the preceding case of Peck v. Jenness,. was
brought up from the Superior Court of Judicature of the State
of New Hampshire, by a writ of error issued under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act.
Ledden was an inhabitant of the Province of New Brunswick, and Colby of the State of New Hampshire. The attachment was issued in 1837.
The case was similar, in it principal circumstances, to that
of Peck v. Jenness, and was argued together with it.
C. B. Goodrich,_for the defendant in error.
As to the principal question, I rely upon the Argument sub-

