SUPREME COURT.
Wagner et al. v. Baird et al.

As no other question arises on the appeal which is material
and has not-been arranged in submitting to a sale of the trust
property, it is only nebessary to add that the judgment below
must be affirmed.
Mr. Justice McKINLEY dissented.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandiia, and
was arguea by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and decreed by this court, that the decree of the
said Circuit Court in this cause be and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs.

PETER K. WAGNER, AND SIDONIA PIERCE WAGNER, HIS WIFE, JOHN
LAWSON LEWIS, LOUISA MARIA LEWIS, THEODORE LEWIS, ELIZA
CORNELIA LEWIS, ALFRED. J. LEWIS, JOHN HAIPDEN LEWIS, AL.GERNON SIDNEY LEWIS, GEORGE WASH'INGTOK LEWIS, AND BEN3A,lfIN4FIANKLIN LEWIS, ALL RESIDENiTS AND CITIZENS OF THE CITY OF

NEW ORLEANS AND STATE OF LOUISIANA, AND JOHN BOWMAN, AND
MARY PIERCE B9WYAN, HIS WIFE, LATE MARY PIERCE LAWSON,
-RESIDENTS AND CITIZENS, OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE, AND GEORGE
C. THO'PSoN, ARESIDENT AND CITIZEN OF THE STATE OF KENTUCEY,
COMPLAINAINTS AND APPELLANTS, V. JOHN BAIRD AND OTHERS, RESPONDENTS.

There is a.defence peculiar to courts of equity founded on lapse of time and the
stalcness of the claim, where no statute of limitations directly governs the case.
In such cases, the court often act upon their oN'n inherent doctrine of discouraging for the peace of society, antiquated demands, by refusing to interfere where
there ha been gross laches in prosecuting rights, or long acquiescence in the assertion of adverse rights.
The rule ueon this subject, originally laid down by Lord Camden, in Smith v. Clay,
3 Brown s Chancery Reports, page 640, note, and adopted by this court in I Howard, 189, again asserted.
Long acquiescence and laches by parties out of possession are productive of much
hard.hip and injustice to others, and cannot be excused but by showing some actual hindrance or impediment caused by the fraud or concealment of the party in
pse ssion, which will appeal to the conscience of the chancellor.
e party guilty of such laches cannot screen his title from the just imputation of
staleness, merely by the allegation of an imaginary impediment or technical disability.
The facts in this case bring it within the operation of the above principles, and the
bill must, therefore, be dismissed.
THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Ohio, sitting as a court of equity.

JANUARY" TERM, 1849.

235

Wagner et al. v. Baird et aL

The case, as set forth by the complainants, is contained in
the following extract from the brief of Mr. Ewing, one of their
solicitors.
The bill, which was filed on the I8th day of November,
1840, 'charges, that on or about the 2Lst of November, 1783,
Brigadier-General Robert Lawson obtained of the -State of Virginia a military land-warrant, No. 1,921, for 10,000 acres of
land .due him for military services in the Revolutionary war, in
the Virginia line on Continental establishment.
That prior to the 12th of January, 1788, said warrant was
lodged in the office of Richard C. Anderson, then principal surveyor of the Virginia military lands, and that prior to the 4th
of June, 1794, divers entries had been made on said warrant,
to wit: entries Nos. 1,704, 1,705, "1,706, 1,707, f,714,- 1,715-,
1,716, 1,717, 1,718, and 1,719, of 1,000 acres each; and that
Nos. 1,704, ],705, and 1,706 had been withdrawn and reentered,
so as to leave Nos. 1,707 and 1,714 the first- subsisting entries
made for the said Robert Lawson on the surveyor's books.
That on the 4th day of June, 1794; the said Robert Lawson, by deed of indenture of three parts, between him, the said
Robert Lawson, of the fist part, his wife Sarah Lawson, of the
second part, and James Speed, George Thompson, Joseph
Crocket, and George Nicholas, of the third part, for the cohsideration therein expressed, conveyed to the said Thompson,
Crocket, and Nicholas, for the uses and purposes therein specified, 2,000 acres of land, described as situate on White Oak
Creek, on the northwest side of the Ohio River, being the land
mentioned in the first entry made for said Robert on the-surveyor's books; which.said 2,000 acres of land is averred to be
the land embraced, not in a single entry, but in"entries Nos.
1,707 and 1,714, made January 12th and February 11th, 1788.
That the said Robert Lawson, by the same deed, conveyed
to the said trustees five other tracts of land of 1,000 acres each,
described as being the last entries made on said warrant in the
name of said Robert Lawson; which, it is averred, embrace the
land contained in entries Nos. 1,718 and 1,719, made the 11th
of February, 1788; entiy No. 1,704, made February 11th,
1793; and entries Nos. 1,705 and 1,706, made the 21st of
Jaiuary, 1793.
Complainants file a certified copy of said deed, aver that the
same was duly recorded in Fayette county, Kentucky, and on
the 26th of February, 1798,,a certified copy, from the records
in Fayette county, Kentucky, was recorded in the recorder's
office of Hamilton county, in the Northwestern Territory, in
which county the lands in controversy lay. The original deed
of trust is lost; due search has been made for it, and the con-

SUPREME COURT.
Wagner et al. v. Baird et al.

plainants verily believe that the original was consfimed by fire
in the recorder's office in Kentucky.
That on the 16th of August, 1796, John O'Bannon procured
of Lawson an assignment of 3,333k acres of said warrant.
That Lawson, at the time he made this assignment, was habitually intemperate, and mentally incapable of transacting business. O'Bannon well knew this, - knew of the deed of trust,
-and procured the assignment by fraud, and on the false pretences that he was the locator of the whole tract of 10,000
acres.
That afterwards, on the 25th of August, 1796, O'Bannon,
knowing that entry No. 1,707 hhd been conveyed to the trustees aforesaid, fraudulently withdrew so much of said warrant
1,921 as was entered in said No. 1,707, and caused the same
to~be entered on the lands in controversy; and, on the 29th'of
Auguist. 1796, surveyed the same, and returLsd the plat to the
surveyor-general's office.
That prior to the 12th of February, 1799, O'Bannon applied
for a patent in his own name for said survey; and that on said
day the trustees, in the deed of trust aforesaid, by Joshua
Lewis, their agent, filed a caveat against the issuing of patents
to the assignees on said warrant 1,921, and with it a copy of
the deed of trust.
That O'Bannon continued to urge the department to issue
patents on his claims under said assignment; which was for a
long time postponed, and, on the 9th of May;_1811, refused or
suspended, because said assignment was in violation of the deed
of trust aforesaid. That said deed of trust, among other things,
directed the trustees aforesaid to convey the 2,000 acres of land
first above mentioned to either of the sons of said Robert and
Sarah Lawson that the said Sarah might direct, unless it
should be necessary to dispose of the same for the use. of the
family;. that the last-named 5,000 acres should be conyeyed,
1,000 to America Lawson, 2,000 to Joha P. Lawson, and 2,000
to Columbus Lawson.
That the said Sarah did not, in her lifetime, direct the conveyance of the said 2,000 acres ; alnd the said trustees did not
convey the same, nor any part of the 5,000 acres. That all
the trustees are dead, and that the last survivor of them,
George Thompson, died on the 22d of March, 1834, leaving
the complainant George 0. Thompson his only child and heir
at law.
That America Lawson intermarried with Joshua Lewis,
December 23d, 1797. General Lawson died March 1. 1805,
leaving three children, John Pierce Lawson, America Lewis,
and Colunbus Lawson, his heirs at law. That on the 10th of

JANUARY-TERM, 1849.

237

Wagner et al. v. Baird et al.

June, 1809, gaid Sarah Lawson died. That on the 7th of January, 1807, John Pierce Lawson conveyed to Joshua Lewis all
his interest in said lands. That on the 1st of June, 1809,
John P. Lawson died,. leaving Mary P. Lawson, now Mary P.
Bowman, his only child and heir at law, who intermarried with
complainant John Bowman. That on the 8th of January,
1815, Columbus Lawson died unmarried and intestate,. leaving
said America Lewis and Mary P. Bdwman his heirs at law.
That about the 1st of January, 1813, John O'Bannon died,
leaving Robert Alexander and George T. Cotton executors of
his last will and testament. That Cotton, who qualified, -applied to the General Land Office for a patent on survey No.
1,707, of 965 acres, as executor of said O'Ba~noon, but the pa tent was withheld, and the record thereof cancelled.
That, about the 21st of December, 1816, the said Cotton deposited iu the General Land Offiee a paper, purporting to be a
certificate of,.and signed by, Robert Lawson, dated the 27th of
November, 1802, and purporting to be witnessed by J. Bootwright and C. McCallister. Said certificate was false and
forged; but by means thereof the patent was procured to be
issued.
That Cotton died testate; complainants exhibit a copy of
the will of O'Bahnon, and of Cotton. The devisees of said
John O'Bannon and George T. Cotton are. not rdsidents of the
district of Ohio; prays process of subpmna against them, or such
of them as may be found in the said district; and that they, and
such others as will voluntarily appear, be made defendants.
That on the 1st of October, 1830, America Lewis died; on.
the 20th of June, 1833, Joshua Le-wis died, and left complainants their only surviving children and heirs at law. Aver that
the remaining 3,000 acres of land, of warrant 1,921, not included in the deed of trust, vested in them as heirs of Robert
Lawson, through America Lewis.
That America Lawson, afterwards Lewis, was under the disability of infancy or coverture during her whole natural life;
and that at the time of issuing the patent to George T. Cotton,
and from that time till her death, she was under the disability
of coverture. That Columbus Lawson was an infant at the
time of the death of his brother, John P Lawson, and that he
was killed at the battle of New Orleans, on the 8th of January,
1815; and that neither of the trustees in the deed of trust, nor
either of the persons under whom complainants claim title, was
ever resident in the State of Ohio.
That John Baird, James W. Campbell, Thomas Jennings,
Isaac E. Day, Duncan Evans, William King, Victor King, Absaloni King, William More, and Christian Snedecher, (who. are

238

SUPREME COURT.
Wagner et al. v. Baird et al.

made defendants,) are in possession of, and claim to have derived title to, portions of said tract No. 1,707, of 965 acres,
mediately or immediately from George T. Cotton, executor of
John O'Bannon, deceased. Call upon defendants to exhibit
their title. Aver that they had full notice of the title of complainants and the fraud of O*Bannon ; pray subpoena, &c.
An affidavit of search for the deed of trust, and belief that
it is lost or consumed, is attached to the amended bill.
The defendants, terre-tenants, severally plead that they are
bon& fide purchasers, without notice of complainants' title.
They answer jointly, putting in issue the material allegations
of the bill.; set forth specifically their own derivation of title;
aver that the claim of complainants is stale, and that a part of
the persons named as trustees have been in the State of Ohio
since the execution of the deed of trust, and before the issuing
of the patent. That the caveat was filed by Joshua Lewis
without authority from the trustees, and that the patent was
wrongfully suspended at the General Land Office. They refe to the certificate of Lawson, November 27th, 1802; the
affidavit of James Speed, November 20th, 1803; and the certificate of James Morrisson, December 9th, 1816.
To these answers there is a replication.
The above statement of the case is taken, as was before remarked, from the brief of Mr. Ewing, and presents it in as
strong a point of view, for the complainants and appellants, as
can be given to it.
In the progress of- the cause in thl court below, a great mass
of evidence was taken, and many exhibits were filed, which it
is unnecessary to set forth.
I
In December, 1842, the Circuit Court dismissed the bill,
with costs, an appeal from which decree brought it up to this
court.
It was argued at the -preceding term, by Mr. Ewing and
Mr. Scott (in a printed argument), -for the appellants, and
Mr. Stanberry, for the appellees.
It is unnecessary to give any of the arguments of counsel,
except upon the point of lapse of time, as the decision of the
court turned upon that point.
Mr. Ewing, for the appellants.
And lastly, the-defendants rely on the lapse of time.
The statute of limitations of Ohio, January 25th, 1810,
bears directly upon this case. 1 Chase, 656, ยง 2. By the second section of this statute, all actions or suits for the recovery
of possession, title, or claims to land are barred in twenty-one
years; -witha proviso, in these wivrds: - " That if any person

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

239

Wagner et al. v. Baird et al.

or persons who are, or shall be, entitled to have, sue, 'or bring
any suits, action or actions, as aforesaid, shall be within the
age of twenty-one years, insane, feme covert, imprisoned, or
beyond sea at the time when any such suit, action or actions,
may 'or shall have accrued, then every such peison or persons
shall have a right to have, sue, or bring any action or actions
aforesaid within the time hereby before limited in this act after such disability shall have been removed."
Unlike this, the statute of 21 James 1, c. 16, (4 British Stat.
751,) enumerates several forms of real actions, and bars or saves
them; and there is nothing which can, in general terms, include a case in equity.
But we-here come within the direct operation of the statute,
and also within the direct action of the proviso. The law
gives us twenty-one years, after disability removed, to bring
this suit. It is subject to no discretion; we have a right to it.
And so are the decisions. Larrowe v. Beam, 10 Ohio, 502;
Tuttle v.Wilson, ib. 25; Fales v. Taylor, ib. 107; Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 168-177; Carey v. Robinson, 13
Ohio, 181; Lockwood v. Wildman, ib. 452; Ludlow v. Cooper, ib. 582, foot of page.
The' complainants are within the saving in the proviso.
The trustees all resided out of the State until the death of
Thompson, March 22, .1834. All of the cestuis que trust were
absent from the State until their deaths. America Lewis died
in 1830; Joshua Lewis, 1833.
In this state of things, there is no principle of equity which
warrants the court in holding the complainants barred by time,
until time would constitute a bar by the direct application of
the stafute-of limitations.
MIr Scott, on the same side.
The defendants cannot successfully repel the claim, here
asserted by the complainants, on the ground assumed, that
these claims are barred by the statute of -limitations, which
took effect June 1st; 1810 (see Oh. 18, Yol. VIII. p. 63).
That statute does not commence running against land claims
in this district until patent emanates. (See Lessee of Wallace
v. Miner, 6 Ohio, 366, and 7 ib. 249.) The words "beyond
sea," in the statute, are construed to mean out of the State.
(Richardson- v. Richardson, 6 Ohio, 125; Wirt v. Homer, 7
Ohio, 235; Whitney v. Webb, 10 Ohio, 513.) When the action accrued under the act of 1810, it is not, barred by the subsequent act. (Putnam v. Reese, 12 Ohio, 21.) .
The right of action in those under whom the complainants
have. derived title accrued, under the act of 18 10, in Decem-

240

SUPREME COURT.'
Wagner. qt al. v. Baird et al.

her, 181fi, when the patent to Cotton was obtained; but as
they w&6, and'continued to -be, non-residents, the statute of
limitations-never commenced running; against the claims now
-asserted by the complainants, until 1830, on the death of
their, mother, - Anerica Lewis, and in 1833, on the death of
their father, Joshua Lewis. The statute commenced running
against three sixth-parts of the lands now claimed in the bill
on the death of Mrs. Lewis; and as respects two sixth-parts
thereof, it commenced running 'on the death of -Mr. Lewis.
But the statute has never commenced running against the remaining sixth part, which is claimed by Mrs. Bowman. After
the statute b6gitfs to run, it requires tventy-one years to complete the bar. And the Supreme Court of Ohio, sitting in.
bank, in the case of Carey's Adminstrators v. Robinson's Administrators, '13 Ohio, 181, has recently decided, that, where
non-residents are within, the saving clause of the-act of limitations of 1810, the. statute does not begin. to- run until their
death; and that their heirs may commence suit within the
period of twenty-one years, limited 'in the statute, after the
death of such ancestor. And, in accordance with this decision,
the. same court, at the same term, in 'the case of Lockwood and
others v. Wildman and others, decided, that, under the act of.
181]0, persons residing out of the State at the commencement
of adverse possession are not barred under twenty-one years
after the disalility is removed. These decisions have overruled the decision made by the same court, at a previous- terms
in the case of Whitney v. Webb, 10 Ohio, 513, and demonstrate that the claims here asserted by the c6mplainants are not
barred by the statute of limitatidns.
The-complainants are not barred on the ground that iheir
demand is stale by reason of the lapse of time. The jaules
in equity, which allow lapse- of time to be-interposed as a
bar to equitable relief, haVe been adopted in analogy to the
statute of limitations -in cases at- law, and are governed by
precisely the same principles. And here it is worthy of remark, that the statute of limitations of Ohioj in one important
particular, is essentially different from any of the statutes of
limitations of the Britisl4 Parliament which have come under
our notice. In the- British statutes the, particular suits are
named, to which a limitation, as to the time of bringing them,
is fixed; but as -no suits in equity are named, in those statutes,"
the courts have adjudged that those statutes, in direct terms,
did not apply to suits in equity. The statutes of Ohio limit
the -time for bringing "actions of ejeetment, or any other action for the recovery of the title or possession of lands," &c.,
to. twenty-one years. In Ohio, there is no other action-'or
-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

241

Wagner et al. v. Baird et al.

'suit known to the law for the recovery of the title to land, except an action or suit in equity. And we, therefore, insist that
this is an action or suit, and the ouly one the law authorized
us to bring, for the recovery of the title and possession of the
lands in question, and consequently it falls within the letter
and spirit of our statutes of limitations. And if our construction of the statute be correct, it consequently results that the
plea of the lapse of time has no application to-this case, as the
statute itself furnishes the rule, and the only rule, by which
we can be barred. But suppose we are mistaken, in the construction we have contended for, will the condition of the defendants be improved ? We think not: because the courts of
equity, in England and in this country, have adopted the statute of limitations as furnishin& reasonable equitable rules for
the limitation 'of suits in equity.
-His honor, Mr. Justice McLean, in delivering his opinion in
this case, in the Circuit Court, said, - "Had the statute of
limitations remained open for our'coritemplation, and we construed it as above intimated, which would not bar the complainants' rights, still I sliuld have been clearly of the opinion
that they were barred by the lapse of time." The position
here assumed by the learned judge will, I trust, be deemed a
sufficient apology, on my part, for dwelling a little longer on
this branch of the case than, I originally intended. The Supreme Court of this State, in the case of Amelia Fahr, -Administrator of Casper Fahr, v. James Taylor and others, 10 Ohio,
106, decided that chancery will not set up lapse of time
against a claim, when an action of debt for its recovery would
not be-barred by the statute of limitations. In the case of
Ridley and others v. Holtman and others, 10 Ohio, 521, the
"court decided that equity ordinarily acts in analogy to the law,
giving effect to the statute of limitations, and therefore, where
the owner 6f an older entry and juior patent, who was never
in the State, died, with an adverse possession, under a junior
entry and older patent, against him, equity, after the lapse of
twenty-one years from his death, will allow the act oT limitations to be set up, as a bar against his heirs, seeking to get in
.the legal title under the older entry. And, in the ease of
do
Larrowe v. Beam, 10 Ohio, 498, *the court said: -"We
not know that there is any case in which the- defence has been
distinctly placed upon this ground (lapse of time), where there
was a statute of limitations in force applicable to the case. If
the party be guilty of such laches in prosecuting his title as
would bar him if his title were solelj at law, he should be
barred in equity."
Mfbrtgages are held not to be within the words of the statute.
VOL. VIw

21

242

SUPREME COURT.
Wagner et al. v. Baird et al.

of limitations; and no positive rule hath, as yet, been fixed
upon which shall be an absolute bar to redemption. But the
making up of accounts, after long periods of time, being very
difficult, and attended with great hardship on the mortgagee, it
hath been thought reasonable to establish in equity, in analogy
to the statute, a period at which, yrimi fade, the right of redemption shall be presumed. to be deserted by the mortgagor,
unless he be capable of producing circumstances to account for
his neglect, such as imprisonment/infancy, coverture, or by
having been beyond seas, and not by having absconded, which
is an avoiding or retarding of justice. (See Knowles v. Spence,
Mos. 225; 1' Eq. Cas. Abr. 315; Ord v. Smith, Sel. Oh. Cas.
9, 10; ib. 56; Jenner v. Tracy, 3 P. Wims. 287, note; Belch
v. Harvey, .ib.; 3 Sugden on Vend., App., note 15; Saunders
v. Hoard, 1 Ch. R. 184; Clapham v. Bowyer, lb. 206; 3
Atkins, 313; Bony v. Ridgard, 1 Cox, Ch. Cas. 149;' Hever
v. Livingston, 1 P. Wms. 263; Trash v. White, 3 Bro. Ch.
Cas. 289; Leman v. Newnham, 1 Ves. 51; and Shipbrook v.
Hinchingbrook, 13 Yes. 387.) And to preserve uniformity
between the proceedings in courts of law and equity, twenty
years after forfeiture and possession- taken by the mortgagee,
no interest having been paid in the mean time and the mortgagor laboring under none of the disabilities enumerated in
the statute of limitations, hath been fixed upon as the period
beyond which a right of redemption shall not be favored.
(See 3 Johns. Ch. 134; and Lamer v. Jones, 3 Har. & McHen.
328; and Doe v. Calvert, 5 Taunt. 170.)
It has been said that this rule is not founded on the presumption of an absolute conveyance, but is merely a positive
rule, introduced for the sake of quieting the title, after so long'
a neglect to redeem. Per Eyre, *C. B., in Corbet v. Barker,
1 Anstr. 143. The rule was first hinted at in Winchcomb v,
Hall, 1 Ch. R. 40, and Porter v. Emery- 1637, lb. 97; then in
Saunders v. Hoard, 1 Ch: R. 184; and Clapham v. Bowyer,
ib. 206; and afterwards adopted as a rule of court, by Lord
Keeper Bridgman and the Master of' the' Rolls, in Pearson v.
Pulley, 1 Ch. Cas. 102; and followed by Lord King, in White
v. Ewer, 2 Vent. 340. But the rule seems not to have been
permanently -ettled till about the middle of the last century.
So late as the year 1722, an appeal came on in the House of
Lords, wherein the doctrine was but imperfectly acknowledged.
It was, however, there held, that a mortgagee in possession for
seventy years, under legal title, should not be redeemed or disturbed; for so long an. acquiescence should be taken as an
implied waiver of the iight to redeem, especially when the
rents were insufficier- to keep down the interest for more than

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

243

Wagner et al. v. Baird et al.

fifty years. Stone v. Byrne, 2 Bro. P. C. 399; S. P., 3 Johns.
Ch. 129.
The rule, however, may now be considered as permanently
established; and the principles on which it is founded are perfectly understood and clearly developed. It is true, courts of
equity, by their own rules, independently of any statrite of
limitations, give great effect to length of time; but it is equally
true, that they refer frequently to the statute of limitations, for
the purpose of furnishing a convenient measure for the limitatien of time, which might operate as a bar, in equity, to any
particular demand. (See Beckford v. Wade, 17 Ves. 87.)
In Kane v. Bloodgood, 7 Johns. Ch.9, (affirmed in 8 Cowen,' 360,) Chancellor Kent remarked, in substance, that the
limitation of suits, being founded in public convenience, and
attended with so thuch utility, the courts of, equity .have
adopted principles analogous to those established by the statutes of limitations, as positive rules for their conduct.
Lord Camden, in Smith v. Clay, 3 Bro. Ch. R. 639, note,
said, that laches and neglect were always discountenanced in
equity; and therefore, from the beginning of that jurisdiction,
there was always a limitation to suits. Expedit reipublicce
ut sitfinis litium, was a maxim that had prevailed in chancery
at all times, without the help of an act of Parliament. As,
however, the court had no legislative authority, it could not
define the bar by a positive rule. It was governed by circumstances. But as often as Parliament had* limited the time of
actions and remedies to a certain period, in legal proceedings,
the Court of Chancery had adopted that rule, and applied it to
similar cases in equity; for when the legislature had fixed the
time at law, it would have been preposterous for equity to
continue laches beyond the period to which they had been
confined by Parliament; and therefore, in all cases where the
legal right has been barred by Parliament, the equitable right
to the same thing has been concluded by the same bar.
Lord Redesdale, in Hovenden v. Annesley, 2 Sch. & Lefr.
607, said: -"
I think the statute of limitations must be
taken, virtually, to include courts -of equity; for when the
legislature limited the proceedings at law, in certain cases, and
provided no express limitations for proceedings in equity, it
must be taken to have contemplated that equity followed the
law ; and therefore it must be taken to have virtually enacted,
in the Vame cases, alimitation for courts of equity also."
In the case of the Marquis of Cholmondely v. Lord Clinton,
(see 2 Meriv. 171, and 2 Jac. & Walk. 190,) upon appeal
to the House of Peers, Lord Eldon said he could not agree
to, and had nev3r heard of, such a rnile, as that adv6rse pbs-

244

SUPREME COURT.
Wagner et al. v. Baird et aL

session, however long, would not avail against an equitable
estate; and he concluded by stating his opinion to be, 'that
an adverse possession of an equity of redemption for. twenty
years was a bar to another person claiming the same equity
of redemption, and worked the same effect as disseizin, abatement, or intrusion, with respect to legal estates; and that,.for
-the quiet-and peace of titles, and of the world, it ought to have
the same effect. During that whole period of twenty years,
in which Lord Clinton had held adverse possession of the
premises in question, the -Marquis of Cholmondely, or those
under whom he claimed, was not laboring under any of the
So that the bar in
disabilities 'enumerated in the statute.
chancery, in analogy to the statute of limitations, was complete. Lord Redesdale was clearly of the opinion, that the
plaintiffs -were barred by the effect of the statute of limitations;
and that the bill, therefore, should be dismissed. He wished
it to be understood that his decision rested, principally, on
that ground. He remarked that it. had been argued that thq
Marquii of Cholmondely might, at law, have had a writ of right,
- that was, -iwrit to which peculiar privileges were allowed;
but courts of equity had never regarded that writ or writs of
formedon, or others of the same nature. They had always considered the provision in the statute of James which related to
rights and titles of entry, and in which the period of limitation
was twenty years, as that by which they were bound, and- it
was that upon which they had constantly acted. He considered that the statute was a positive law, which' ought to bind
courts of equity, and that the legislature must have supposed
that they would regulate their proceedings accordingly, by it.
The decree of Sir Thomas Phuner was confirmed. The following clauses in 'Sir Thomas Plumer's opinion have a direct
Mrs. Daimer, the devisee,
bearing on this question, viz. -"
is, (?n all sides, admitted to be the only person who could
have had any claim of title under Horace, Earl of Orford, to
this estate; and the full period of twenty years having elapsed
since the,death of George, Earl of Orford, when that title, if
at all, first accrued, the remedy would have been *taken away
by the statute, in tonequence of the laches and non-claim.
The lapse of twenty years affords a substantive, insuperable
-plea in bar. It is the fixed limit to the remedy, - the tempus
coiistitutumh; one day beyond is as much too late as one hundred years. This is the peremptory, inflexible rule of law,
fixed by positive statutes, if there has been adverse possession,
and no disability or fraud. No plea of poverty, ignorance, or
mistake can be of any avail. However clear and idisptitable
the title, if the merits could be inquired into," &c.

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

245

Wagner et al. v. Baird et al.

Lord Chancellor Manners, in Medlicott v. O'Donnell, I Ball& Beat. 164, thus expressed himself: -" I think, then, I stand
well supported by principle and authority'in saying that the
court is bound to regulate its proceedings by analogy, or in
obedience to the statute of limitations. Upon a uniform concurrence of a long train of the highest authorities, I %canentertain no doubt in the present case. It is clear that, had it been
the claim of a legal estate, in a court of law, the remedy must;
by andlogy, be equally barred in a court of equity.'" On"the
same ground, another case, between the same parties, has since
been decided; the Lord Chancellor observing, that, where there
has been adverse possession for twenty years, not accounted
for by some disability, as coverture, &c., a court of equity ought
not to interfere. 1 Turn. 107.
In Now York, thd analogy between the, right to redeem in,
equity and the right of entry at law is complete and entire
throughout. Demarest v. Wynkoop, 3 Johns. Ch. 134.
Lord Manners, in the case of Medlicott v. O'Donnell,to
which reference is had above, said: - "It has been suggested
that I lay too much stress upon length of time, and that I attach
more credit to it than Lord Redesdale or any.of my predecessors have done. I confess, I think the statute :of limitations is
founded upon-the soundest principles.and the wisest policy, and
that this court, for the peace of families and to quiet titles, is
bound to adopt it, in cases where the equitable and legal title
so far correspond, that the only difference: between them is that
the'one must be enforced in this court, and the other in a court
of law."
In Cook v. Arriham, 3 P. Wms. 287, the rule was put on
this footing, that where length of time will not bar the right
to bring an ejectment, then it shall not bar the right to'file a
bill in equity; and Sir Joseph Jekyll, in Toyer v. Larington,
I P. Wins. 270, placed the rule on the same footing; and, in
that shape, it was approved by Lord Redesdale in the cases
above cited.
In Nelson v. Carrington, 4 Munf. 332, and Lamar v. Jones,
the court decided that lapse of time is permitted, in equity, to
defeat an acknowledged right, on the ground only of its affordihg evidence of presumption that such right has been abandoned; and it never prevails where the presumption is outweighed by opposing facts and circumstances.
From the cases of Topliss v.Baker, 2 Cox, Ch. Cas. 122, in
the Exchequer; Turnstall- v. McLelland, Hard. 519; Hele v.
Hele, 2 Ch. Cas. 28; Sibson v. Fletcher, 1 Ch.R. 59; Leman
v.Newnham, 1 Ves. 51; Trash v White, 3 Bro. Ch. Gas.
291; Hatcher v. Fineaux, 1 Ld. Raym. 740 ; and Blewitt 'v.
21*

SUPREME COURT.
Wagner et al. v. Baird ct al.

no
Thomas, 2 Ves. jr. 669, we deduce these points :-that
rule exists, in equity, for presuming a release or satisfaction
of a mortgage, after the lapse of twenty years, or any other
particular period of time, on the ground that no nbtice has been
taken of the debt, either by payment of the interesf on one
side, or demand of principal and interest on the other; and that
if a jury should on that ground presume the bond to be satisfied, yet the mortgagee -will not thereby be prevented from
showing the truth of the case to the court; and the court will,
on proof that the money is due, or in the absence of proof that
it has been paid, decree in favor of the mortgagee, notwithstanding a period of more than twenty years may have elapsed
between the making of the mortgage and- the last demand of
principal and interest. But it will be incumbent on the mortgagee and his representatives to define, particularly, the period
and essence of the acknowledgments which he avers to have
taken place, and to show. with accuracy the commencement
and continuance of. every disability which he suggests as the
cause of forbearance.
Lord Chancellor Erskine, in the cse of Hillary v. Waller,
12 Yes. 239, said: -" The presumption in courts of law, from
length of time, stands upon a clear principle, built upon reason,
the nature and character of man, and the result of human experience. It resolves itself into this, that a .man will naturally enjoy what belongs to him; that is the, whole principle.
-Then,
as to presumptions of title: 1st. As to bond taken,
and no interest paid for twenty years, nay, withi twenty,
years, as Lord Mansfield has said; but upon twenty years the
presumption is that it has been paid, and the presumption
will holi. unless it can be repelled; unless insolvency, or a
state approaching it, can 'be shown; or -that the party was a
near 'elative; or the absence of the party having the right to
the money; or.-something that repels the presumption, that a
man is always ready to enjoy what is his own." In that case,
a definite period was fixed, in analogy, to the time at which
courts of law raised similar presumptions, namely, "not less
than twenty yeas" ; implying that, primd fade, after twenty
years, a court of equity will raise the presumption of a reconveyance from the mortgagee or 'his heirs;. the period wherein
-t'he presumption of payment of the mortgage money will arise.
But all these presumptions may be repelled by evidence. The
'lapse of twenty years is only a circunmstance on which to found
a presumption of payment, and is not, ef itself, a legal bar. Jackson v. Pierce, 10 Johns. 414; Ross v. Norvell, 1 Wash. 14.
In the case of Chalmer v. Bradley, 1 Jac. & Walk. 63, the
plaintiffs stated that they were ignorant of the facts. it was pos-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

247

Wagner et al. v. Baird et al.

sible, -aid Sir Thomas Pluner, they might be so. - But was ihere
not any thing that miglt lead them to that knowledge? "Noth-ing appearing in the case, his honor directed an inquiry whether the plaintiffs had any notice of these circumstances, -implied
or otherwise.; observing, that the reason why be directed this
inquiry was, that, though he was impressed with the impolicy
of permitting stale demands to be brought forward, thoilgh he
knew that,, on the principle stated in Smith v.Clay, Amb. 645,
and 3 Bro. C. C. 639, note, a court of equity was not to be
called into action by those who were not vigilant in support of
their rights, and was aware of the monstrous inconvenience
that would result at some period if the door was not shut to
litigation, yet he fell in entirely with the opinion expressed
by Lord Alvanley in Pickering v. Stamford, 2 Yes. jr. 272.
There the suit was commenced, after a lapse bf thirty-five
years, by persons who declared themselves ignorant of their
rights. Lord Alvanley, under the circumstances of that case,
could not be sure they were not ignorant, and therefore, stating strongly his opinion in.favor of the general principle, that
a party ought to be barred by length of time, and lardenting
that he could not, in that instance, follo~w it, he directed similar
inquiries; stating, at the same tine, that if he (Lord. Alvanley)
were then to decide the case before him, he would decide it
against the plaintiffs; and that, by the iniquiries, he did not decide one way. or the other; and would afterwards consider
whether there was sufficient equity in the bill br.not. It was,
therefore, because ihere was not before him any direct and
positive evidence to totally exclude all doubt upon itT that Sir
Thomas Plumer directed the inquiries in Chalmer v. Bradley, to obtain some light on the circumstances under which the
disputed enjoyment of the property had gone, reserving to himself to judge what should be the effect of the facts which
might be found by the. master, or what, even without that result. he might think right to be done.
The observations of Lord Camden, in Smith v.Clay, 3 Bro.
C. C. 640, on which'his honor, Mr. Justice Mc-Lean, in deciding
this 6ase, seemed to place so much reliance, do not, we respectfully submit, when rightly understood, conflict.with the principles of the preceding cases. The words of Lord Camden are:
." A court of equity, which is never active in a relief against
conscience, has always reflsed its aid to stale demands .where
the party has slept upon his rights and acquiesced for a great
length of time. Nothing can call forth this court into activity
but conscience, good faith, and reasonable diligence."
A demand in equity is never stale during that period in
which, were it a legal demand, it would ndt be barred by the

248

SUPREME COURT.
Wagner et al. v. Baird et aI.

statute of limitations. The complainants have been basely
defrauded of their rights, and do not, therefore, defile theirconsciences by the prosecution of this suit. The complainants
never acted in bad faith towards the defendants. They have
never slept upon their rights. They were constantly active in,
aserting their claims, br caveat, until Cotton obtained his patent, which gave him, a right of entry. At that time, those
under whom the complainants claim were laboring under disabilities, and this suit was commenced in less than twenty-one
years after those disabilities were removed. . The law- has defined what reasonable diligence is, namely, the institution of a
suit within the period limited in the law.
e
We are unable to perceive the bearing which the case of
Piatt v. Vattier, 9 Peters, 413, can have on the present case.
In that case, Piatt merely' set out the claim which he had procured by assignment, and asked the court to decree a conveyance of a doubtful equity where there had been an adverse
possession of more than thirty years; yet he did not, in his bill,
charge that he, or those under whom he claimed, had been,
during the whole period in which such adverse, possession had
been held, laboring under any of the disabilities enumerated in
the statute of limitations; nor did he charge a single fact or
circumstance to excuse the delay in bringing his skiit, so as to
shield his claim against the, operation of the bar in analogy to
the statute of limitations. Of what avail, then, was his proof?
-as
neither proof without allegation, nor allegation without
proof, will warrant a decree. The complainants in this suit
have averred and proved, not only that their claim, if a legal
one, would'not be'barred by the statute of limitations, but they
have also- charged and proved such facts and circumstances as,
independent of the statute, relieve their claim from the operations of the bar adopted in equity in that class of cases il
which a bar in analogy to the statute-would be.applied.
-A legacy given out of .real property is only recoverable in a
-court of equity, aqd, therefore is not within the expre~a words
of the statute of limitations. And it f61lows, that length of
time alone will not bar it, but it will raise a presumption of payment, which, unless repelled by evidence of particular circumstances, will be conclusive. (See I Vern. 256 ; 2 ib. 21; and
2 Yes. jr. ii.)
Time will not run against pure technical trusts, noi ill it
commence running in cases of fraud "until the fraud has been
discovered. (See Bicknell ,v. Gough, 3 Atk. 558; Alden v.
Gregory, 2 Eden, 280; 2 Vei, 503; 1 Ridg. Rep. 337; 2
Ves. jr. 280; Cas. Temp. Talb. 63; 2 Sch. & Lefr. 101; and
ib. 474.)

JA'NUARY TERM, 1849.

249

Wagner et al. v. Baird et'f-a.

The presumptions drawn by courts, against stale demands,
are founded in justice and policy. Those presumptions are
matters of evidence, and not, in most cases, proprio jure, matters of plea in bar; and a court of equity, equally with a court
of law or jury' may draw the conclusion, if th6 lapse of time
be put in issue by the pleadings; and the lapse of time be not
satisfactorily- accounted for.
Lapse of time imputed as laches may be excused by*the
obseurity of the transaction, whereby tjie plaintiff Was disabled
from obtaining full information of his'rights, (Muncy v. Palmer,
2 Sch. & Ldfr. 487,) and equity will relieve against the
mere lapse of time unaccounted for without misconduct, in
the lessee, or where" the lessee has lost his right by the fraud
of the lessor (Lamar v. Napper,-2 Sch. & Lefr..682, 689).
These authorities need no comment, as they clearly demonstmte, when applied to the facts of this cse, that the complainants' claim is -not barred by -lapse of' time in analogy to
the statute of limitations, nor by lapse of time. independent of
that statute, or by any other cause.
I There is, however, one class, of cases, in which a court of
law will, in furtherance of justice, presume' a conveyance in
less than twenty years. This, rule, however, only applies to
cases of pure technical trusts, where the trustee is bound to
convey to his cestui que trust 'at a particular period, or on the
happening of a particular event; "after the period has. arrived,
or the event has happened, on which the estate was to be conveyed, if the cestui que trust convey the estate to another, and
an action or suit be brought by the bargainee against a person
in possession. The court will not permit the plaintiff to be
prevented from recovering, on-the ground that the legal title is
outstanding in the trustee, but will leave it to the jury to presume a conveyance from the -trustee; upon these grounds, namely, that the court will presume that the trustee has done his
duty, and that what had been done by the cetui-que trust was
rightfully done. (See England v.'Slade, 4 T. R. 682; and
Doe v. Lyburn, 7 T. R. 2.) It'will at once be perceived that
this class* of cases has no application to the case at bar.
There is no particular hardship in this ease which ought to
weigh with the court, .and incline the scale in favor of the,
defendants: Should a decree be pronounced, evy.Aptually. in
-favor of the complainants, the defendants will, in reality, sustain no loss. The complainants must pay them for all their
lasting and valuable imptovements, and moneys expended in
payment.of takes, less the .rents and profits; and their warrantors must refund to them the expenses of this suit, ordinary
and, extraordinary, and the'consideration -paid, if any were.

-

250

SUPREME COURT.
Wagner et al. v. Baird et'al.

paid, and interest. This will throw the logs back upon those
who-originally perpetrated the fraud, to be relieved from which
the complainants have been compelled to resort to this court.
And we respectfully submit, that they are entitled to the relief
which they ask. In extending relief to the complainants, we
also submit, that no portion of' the land ought to be decreed
to the defendants, on the ground that the lands in question
had been located and surveyed by O'Bannon; because, first,
said location and survey w~re not made in pursuance of any
contract; and if they were, the defendants do not show such
a connection with O'Bannon as would justify this court in substituting them in his place. This court- cannot make a contract-for the -parties, and then decree its specific execution.
Mr. Stanberry, for the appellees,'in reply to Mr. ,Scott
Lastly, if all other defence fails us, we rely. upon the lapse
of time and the staleness of the claim; and this is, under all
the circumstances, a sure reliance. It is difficult to imagine a
case to which this wholesome doctrine would better apply.
Whether the complainants trace their claim to the deed of
trust, or by descent from Lawson, they come at too late a day
into a court of equity to assert it. From the l6thof August,
1796, a claim adverse to theirs has been set up, and for twentyseven years prior to the filing of _the bill undisturbed possession of the land accompanied that adverse claim. However it
may have been in the beginning, no single circumstance of
fraud or notice attaches to this adverse title during this long
possession.
Look now to the change of circumstances in this great lapse
-of time. All. the parties to the transactions dead, and the subject-matter of the- claim, worth only a few cents per acre in
the beginning, -, worth only $ 2.50 per acre when the possession commenced, and then a wilderness,- now turned into
highly cultivated farms, and worth $ 30 per acre.
. Now what sort of a case do these complainants make to
overcome such a defence?
Let us take the title as claimed under the deed of trust in
the first place. I have shown already that this land was not
covered by that deed; but, if it be held to pass, though obscurely, by that deed, then -what sort of a deed was that?
A voluntary post-nuptial s6ttlement, a sort of conveyance,
barely tolerated, requiring the -most favorable circumstances for
its support, and of little avail against present creditors and subsequent porchasers.
The counsel for complainants, in his printed brief, takes
quite a new view of this kind of conveyance. He says, that

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

251

Wagner et al. v. Baird et aL

"each of the three considerations named in the deed is rzluable, and sufficient to sustain it against creditors and subsequent purchasets."
In answer to this, it is only necessary to refer to Cathcart v.
Robinson, 5 Peters, 264, which establishes, or more properly
recognizes, the. doctrine, that a subsequent sale by the husband
to an innocent purchaser is presumptive evidence of fraud in
the settlement.
The great object of this conveyance was a reconciliation between Lawson and his wife, which soon fell through. Very
shortly after the making -of the settlement, we find Mr. and
Mrs. Lawson making a joint application to one of the trustees
for the sale of a part of the lands to meet their current expenses, but nothing is ever done by the trustees in the administration of the trust.
Between the date of the deed of trust and the year 1800,'
Lawson disposed of the entire 10,000 acres -to various persons.
The fact was known to the trustees and the cestuis que trust.
All parties seem to have abandoned it, for not a single item of
the property, real or personal, mentioned in it was ever administered under its provisions. , Lawson and'his family separated
for ever., The complainants allege, that, for years before his
death,'he was reduced to a miserable wreck, both in body and
mind, wholly unable to take care of himself. Strange that,
under such circumstances, he should, have been left altogether
to the care of strangers.
He die& between 1802 and 1805, and his wife and three
surviving children, the youngest of whom (Columbus) was then
sixteen, the other two considerably past their majority, were
left to look after their property.
Mrs. Lawson died in 1809, her three children, then all of full
age, surviving her.
Long before this date, all these parties were advised that this
land was claimed by assignments from General Lawson, and as
early as February 12th, 1799, a caveat against patents to the
assignees was filed in the General Land Office by Joshua
Leiris, who had married the daughter of General Lawson. Although under that caveat the patent for this 965 acres was buspended for sixteen years, not a step farther seems to have been
taken to sustain it or make any proof.
Mrs. Lawson and her children continued to reside in Kentucky, just where, if there were any proof to invalidate the
claims set up under Lawson, it could be had.
On the 9th of January 1807, one 6f the three children, John
P. Lawson, conveys all his interest in the 7,000 acres embraced
in the deed of trust to his brother-in-law, Lewis. This deed

252 -

SUPREME COURT.
Wagner et al. v. Baird et aL

contains the recital ihaf the 7,000 acres, since the date of the
4eed of trust, had been conveyed by Robert Lawson to divers
peifons, and carefully provides that John P. Lawson should not
be held. to warrant against the claims of such urchasers.
John P. Lawson died about the lit of June, 1809, leaving the
complainant. Mary Pierce Bowman, his only child and heii at
law.

Columbus Lawson died unmarried, about the 8th of Jaiiuary,
1815, leaving his sister, Mjs. Lewis, and his niece, Mrs. Bowman,'his heirs at law.
Mrs. Lewis died about the 1st of October, 1830, anfd her
husband about the 20th of June, 1833.
Ten years after the death of the last of Lawsoh's children,
she having lived to the age of fifty-two, the grandchildren of
Lawson,,eleven in number, and all of full age, bring this suit.
Here, then, is a case' of full notice of the adverse 'claim,
brought home to the ancestors of these complainants more than
half a century ago.. They take, but one step in all that time
towards the assertion of their- claim, and that, step was taken
before the present century commenced, and was. ;iever afterwards followed up. Perhaps they did not consider the property
worth the cost and. trouble of its pursuit. Now, after they are
all gone, and all the parties to the fraud, if there was any, have
also. disappeared,- now, when the land is in hands very remote
from the original owners, improved and subdivided into a cluster of farms, and made valuable by the labor of the cccupants,
at- this late day, this long-abandoned claim is set up, and a court
of equity is asked to dispossess these defendants.
If,
we look at the claim by descent, and not through the deed
of trust, it is, if possible,,still worse. 'Then it assumes the aspect of a bill brought to impeach an"equitable title older than
the one set. up by the complainants, - a bill to set aside an assignment 'apparently good'by-matter in pais, exhibited just
forty-four years after the voidable'assignment was made.
But iiiยง'said,'in_' answer to 'this great lapse -of time, that -it
goes for, hothing, for-the reason that the statute of limitations,
in cbnsequende of non-residence, &c., would not bar the complainants if they had a legal title.
-Very clearly it would bar them, if a legal title had descr ided
to the. children of Lawson instead of an equity, Unless we pile
one disability upon another. But 'there is no question of any
sfatute of limitations 'as to the complainants. They never had
the right to bring an action-at law, for they have 'never had a'
legal title. No sich cause of-at'ion has ever accrued .to them.
The legal titl', 'as"has been shown, w;as first vested in Cotton,
and ntothitig appears in the case to prevent the operation of the

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

253

Wagner et al. v. Biird et aL

statute upon that title, the only one upon which it could operate. But if the case were otherwise, it is quite too late to contend that a court of equity will never refuse relief if the statute
does not cover the case.
Piatt v. Yattier, 9 Peters, 405, is a leading case to the contrary. The court in that case act independently of the statute,
and adopt the language of Lord Camden, as follows: - "A
court of equity, which -isnever active in relief against conscience or public convenience, has always refused its aid to
stale demands, where the party has slept upon his rights, or
acquiesced for a great length of time: Nothing can call forth
this court into activity but conscience, good faith, and reasonable diligence.' Where these are wanting, the court is passive,
and does nothing: lches and neglect are always discountenanced; and therefore, from the beginning of this jurisdiction,
there was always a limitation to suits in this court."
. In Bowman v. Wathen, 1 How. 189, the same doctrine is
fully recognized, and the principle upon which a court of equity.
denies relief -to stale claims is strongly enforced and illustrated. The language of Sir William Grant is adopted, and
quoted with approbatibn : -"Courts of equity, by their own
rules, independently of any statutes of limitation, give great
effect to length of time, and they refer frequently to the stat-'
utes of limitation, for no other purpose than as furnishing a
convenient measure for the length of time that ought to operate
as a bar in equity to any particular demand."
So, also,' the language of Lord Redesdale, that "it never
can be a sound discretion in the court to give relief to a person
who has slept upon his rights for such a lapse of time; for
though,it is said, and truly, that the plaintiffs in this suit, and
those under whom they claim, were persons embarrassed by
the fraud of others, yet the court cannot act upon such circumstances."
And, again, what is said by the same Chancellor, that.
"every new right of action in-equity.that accrues to a party,
whatever it may be, must be acted upon, at the utmost, within
twenty years."
If such is the doctrine in England, and has been found
necessary there, it should find peculiar favor in this country;
especially in refexence to stale claims against real estate, --ra
species of property so much the subject of traffic among our
people, and constantly undergoing such changes in value.
Mr. Stanberry, in reply to Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing. in answer to lapse of time, relies upon the act
for limitation of actions (which he says niust govern this case),
VOL. VIL

22

254

SUPREME

COURT.

Wagner et al. v.*Baird et al.

passed January 25th, 1810 (1 Chase, 656). He claims that the
second section provides the rule of limitation for all suits 4in
equity, and that the proviso saves this case.
This is a novel construction of this act. It is entitled "An
act for the limitation of actions," which carries the idea of
,common law proceedings.
The first section specially names all the personal actions, and
affixes their respective bars.
The second section provides for the other description .of actions, mixed and real, by enumerating the writ of ejectment or
other action for the recovery of the possession, title, .or claim
of, to, or for any land, tenements, or hereditaments, and limits
the time of bringing them within twenty-one years next after
the right to such action or suit shall have accrued.
The proviso then saves- the rights of persons entitled to any
such actions, if under the disability of nonage, coverture, insanity, or absence from the State, until the full time of limitation has passed after the removal of the disability.
We say the language, "or other action for the recovery of
the possession, title, or claim of, to, or for any land, tenements,
or hereditaments," is intended to bar all forms of real actions.
Such has been its uniform construction in Ohio. Holt v.
Hemphill, 3 Ohio, 239.
Similar language has been used in all the Ohio acts of limitations. 'The act now in force, of June 1st, 1831 (Swan, 553),
uses this language: - "Actions of ejectment, or other action for
the recovery of the title or possession-of lands," &c.
Larrowe v. Beam, 10 Ohio, 498, applies the statute of 1810
to a petition for dower. Grimke, J., says (p. 503), "that, at
the time the right of the petitioner accrued, the mode of proceeding was by writ of dower, and so continued until 1824,
when the petition in chancery was substituted."
Tuttle v. Wilson, 10 Ohio, 502, also a petition for- dower,.
and held to be barred by the statute. Wood, J., says (p. 26),
.,, The petition for dower is substantially, when prosecuted, a
possessory action."
The actions at common law for the recovery of dower were
classed under .the form of real actioiis.- They were either the
writ of right of dower, or more commonly the writ of dower
unde nihil habet. Booth on Real A tions, 118, 166.
The right to dower is strictly a legal right for the recovery
of a legal estate. It is only for convenience that a remedy by
petition in equity is given in Ohio. The courts of Ohio have.
not said that the 'statute of-limitations -applies directly tb any
other proceeding in equity.
The complainants are- not,-therefore, within the bar or the

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

255

Wagner et al. v. Baird et al.

savings of the statute. It neither binds them nor precludes
them. No cause of action, such as the statute contemplates,
ever vested in them, for they never had a legal title or any
right to sue in a court of law. For nearly half a cdntury their
claim has stood upon a voluntary settlement conveying only an
equity. The case shows it was in effect abandoned, before the
present century began, by all parties interested in it. But one
step was ever taken to assert it, and that was as long ago as
February,.1799, at the instance of Joshua Lewis. The caveat
then filed did not so much as name O'Bannon, or caution any
oneagainst his assignment.
Besides this presumptive abandonment, the other facts shown
by the iomplainants themselves would be sufficient, witho'ut
this lapse of time, to protect the subsequent purchasers.
In Cathcart v. Robinson, 5 Peters, 264, this court in reference to a post-nuptial settlement, refer to the subsequent control over the property by the husband; his notoriously offering
it for sale, the trustee not intervening to prevent it; the letter
of the wife to the trustee requesting him to assign part of the
property to pay the husband's debts, -as evidence of fraud
upon subsequent purchasers.
This case presents a similar state of facts, even to the interference of the wife.
Now, after the death of all the parties to this family arrangement, made chiefly for their own accommodation, and soon
abandoned by them,- after the death of all their, children,
this long forgotten clpim is set up by the grandchildren of the
original parties, eleven in number, not one of whom was in
being at tie time of the settlement, -the youngest now thirty,
and the oldest fifty, years of age t
We see who make this claim, and now what do they ask?
In this case, property worth $ 30,000. But if they are entitled
to this, there is nothing to save from their claim the other
6,000 acres, of equal value; altogether, a property worth more
than $ 200,000, which, at the date of the deed, was not worth

$1,0o0.
And then from whom is this property to be taken? Honest
purchasers, who paid a full value, and who have been in the
undisturbed possession for thirty-five years.
Mr. Justice.GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellants in this case filed their bill in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Ohio, claiming
a certain tract of land in possession of the defendants, and praying a decree for the title and possession of the game.
The bill sets forth that Robert Lawson, under whom com-

-256

-

SUPREME

COURT.

Wagner et al. v. Baird et al,

plainants claim, had received for his services as an officer in
the Revolutionary war a military warrant (No. 1,921) for ten
thousand, acres of land, which, before the 4th of June, 1794,
was located in the Virginia military district, in tracts of one
thousand acres each, under the following numbers of entries:
1,704, 1,705, 1,706, 1707, -1,714, 1,715, 1,716, 1,717, 1,718,
1719.
-" On the 4th of June, 1794, an indenture tripartite was executed between Robert Lawson, of the first -part, Sarah, his wife,
of the second part, and James Speed, George Thompson, Joseph
Crocket, and George Nicholas, of the third part, by which, for
the consideration therein expressed, Robert Lawson conveyed
to the. parties of the third part, among other things, "two thousand acres of military land, situated on White Oak Creek, on
the north side of the Ohio, being the land mentioned in the
first entry made for the said Lawson on the surveyor's books,"
in special trust, that they will "permit said Lawson and his
wife, and the survivor, and the said Sarah, if she should again
Separate from her husband, to use, occupy, possess, and enjoy,
during their natural lives and the life of th survivor, the lands
on Fayette county, Kentucky," &c. And also that they will
convey the two thousand acres of land, on White Oak Creek to
either of the sons of the marriage to whom the said Sarah shall
direct, &c. And the said Lawson covenanted with the trustees that he would, at no future time, "offer any personal violence or injury to his wife, and that he would abstain from the
intemperate use'of every kind of spirituous liquors, and that, if
he should at any time thereafter again offer any personal violence or injury to his wife," the trustees were authorized to
dispossess him of-the hundred and fifty acres of land, &c.
The complainants aver, also, that the two entries numbered
1,707 and 1,714 covered the two thousand, acres conveyed by
this deed.
The bill further states, that on the 16th of August, 1796,
Lawson made an assignment- to one John O'Bannon of three
thousand three hundred and thirty-three acres of his warrant
which had not been surveyed; and charges, that, at the time
of making said assignment, Robert Lawson was, as O'Bannon
well knew, habitually intemperate, and had beeni so- for a long
time previous; that the faculties of his mind were much impaired, and that he was whplly incapable of making any valid
contract; that the, said assignment was without consideration, and procured by O'Bannon under false and fraudulent
pretences.
That .O'Bannon, well knowing that the aforesaid entry of
1,707 had been conveyed by -the trust deed, on the 25th of Au-

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

257

Wagner et al. v. Baird et al

gust, 1796, fraudulently withdrew it, and regntered in his own
name nine hundred and sixty-five acres under the..samo number on the waters of Straight Creek,- the tract in: controversy in the present suit. That O'Bannon, having obtained
the plat and certificate,. deposited them, before the 12th of Febmary, 1799, in the De'partment of State, and applied for a
patent; and Joshua Lewis, the son-in-law of Lawson, as agent
for the trustees, entered on "tlat day a caveat, against the issuing of a patent to O'Bannon.
Lawson and his wife lived together but a short time after
the execution of the trust deed.. '-Mrs. Lawson went to Virginia, where she died in 1809, never having appointed, as provided by the trust deed, to whom conveyance should be made.
Lawson died in Virginia, in 1805, the victim of intemperance.
They left three children; America, intermarried with Joshua
Lewis in 1797, and two sons, under whom complainants
claim.' In 1800, George. Nicholas, one of the trustees, died,
and some time afterwards James Speed and Joseph Crocket;
and. the trust thus became vested in George Thompson, the
survivor. In 1834, George -Thompson -died, leaving George
C. Thompson, one of the complainants, his son and heir at law,
in whom the trust vested.
John O'Bannon died in January, 1812, having made a will
and. appointed Robert Alexander and George T. Cotton, his sonin-law, his executors. Alexander never qualified as executor.
Cotton, as acting executor, on the 16th of July, 1813, executed
a deed of the nine hundred and sixty-five acres to William
Lytle, under whom the defendan-s-claim. The deed of Cotton
recites a patent to John O'Bannon in his lifetime, and warrants
the title. Afterwards, on the 21st of December, 1816, a patent
issued from the United States to Cotton,' "as executor of the
last will and testament of John O'BannQn, in trust for the uses'
and purposes mentioned in his will."
The defendants plead in bar, that-they are purchasers from.
Lytle, and those claiming under him, without notice, and ex-"
hibit their deeds. They also file an answer in support of their
plea, in which the fraud alleged in the bill, and all facts going
to show equity in the claim of complainants, are denied. And
in an amended answer they set up the plea of the statute of
limitations, and insist "1that the deed of trust, under which
complainants claim, is a stale claim, not attended with any
circumstances to relieve it from such staleness, and that the bill
8hould be dismissed on that account."
Various questions have been made before us, as to the nature
and character of this deed of trust : whether its loss is sufficiently accounted for; whether, as a settlement of family dilifi22*

258 .

SUPREME COURT.
Wagner- et. al.

. Baird et aL

culties, it was not abandoned by all the parties concerned in it;
whether it described the land in controversy; whether O'Bannon purchased with notice of it;. whether he paid any consideration;, whether the assignment to him by Lawson was
fraudulently obtained.; whether the legal title was vested in defendants by virtue of the patent to Cotton and his warranty;
.and whether the statute of limitations operated as a bar to
complainants' claim.
On these and other questions, which were argued with so
much ability by the leaned counsel, it is not the intention of
the court to express an opinion; because, in our view of the
case, they are not necessary to a correct decision of it.
The, important question is, whether the complainants are
barred by the length of .time.
In cases of concurrent jurisdiction, courts of equity consider
themselves bound by the statutes of limitation which govern
courts of law in like cases; -and this ratlhr in obedience to the
statutes, than.by analogy. In many other cases they act upon .
the analogy of the lim.tations at law; as where a legal title
would in ejectment be oarred by twenty years' adverse possession, courts of equity will acL upon the like limitation, and
apply it to all cases of relief sought, upon equitable titles, or
claims touching real estate.
But there is a defence'peculiar to courts of equity, founded on laps? of time and the 'staleness of' the claim, where no
statute of limitations directly governs the case. In such cases
courts of equity often act upon their own inherent doctrine of
discouraging, for the peace of society, antiquated demands, by
refusing to interfere where there has been gross laches in
prosecuting rights, or long acquiescence in the assertion of adverse rights.

(2 Story, Eq. ยง 1520.)

A court of equity-will not give relief against conscience-or
public convenience where a party has slept upon his rights.
"Nothing," says Lord Camden (4 Bro. 'Ch. R. 640), "can
call forth this court into activity but conscience, good faith,
and reasonable diligence; when these are wanting, the court
is passive, and does nothing." Length of time necessarily obscures all human evidence, and deprives parties of the means
of ascertaining the nature of original transactions ; it operates
by way of presumption in favor of the party in possession.
Long acquiescence and laches by parties out of possession are
productive of much hardship and injustice to others, and cannot be excused but by showing some actual hindrance or impediment caused by the fraud or concealment of the party in
possession, which will appeal to the conscience of the chancellot. The .party guilty of such laches cannot screen his title

JANUARY TERM; 1849.

259

Wagner et aL v. Baird et aL.

from the just imputation of staleness merely by the allegation of an imaginary impediment or technical disability.
This doctrine has been so often asserted by this cogurt, that it
is unnecessary to vindicate it by argument. It will be sufficient to refer to Piatt v."Yattier, 9 Peters, 405, a case much resembling the present, and Bowman v. Wathen,. 1 Howard, 189.
Can the complainants' case stand the test of this reasonable
and well-established rule of equity?
The bill does not assert that either the trustees or the cestuis que trust were ignorant of the transaction between Lawson and O'Bannon, or of the fraud practised on Lawson, if any
there was. Yet, with the exception of the caveat filed in
Washington, in 1799, .they show no assertion of claim under
this voluntary post-nuptial settlement, from its date (June,
1794) till the filing ofthis bill in 1840. John O'Bannon lived
till 1812; yet in all this time (sixteen years), no bill is filed
to set aside his assignment from Lawson for the fraud now al-.
leged, while the circumstances were fresh and capable of proof
or explanation.
In 1813 (perhaps in 1811) the defendants, or those under
whom they claim, entered upon -these lands ; they paid large
and valuable, considerations for their respective portions, without any knowledge of this lost deed of family settlement, or
reason to suspect ,fraud in the transfer to O'Bannon. And
whether the patent obtained by Cotton, and his warranty, had
the effect of conferring on them the legal title or not, they
reposed in confidence on it: By their industry and expenditure of their capital upon the land for a space of twenty-seven
years, they have made it valuable; and what was a wilderness, scarce worth fifty cents an acre, is now enhanced by
their labora hundred fold.
No bad faith,, concealment, or fraud can be imputed to them.
If the trustees or cestuis que trust chose to reside in Kentucky,
and not lool after these lands for near half a century, they can
have no equity from a disability that was voluntary and selfimposed. The resi4ence of the trustees in Kentucky was notr
considered as an obstacle or objection, in the minds of those
who executed the deed, to their assuming the trust and care
of lands in Ohio. There was no greater impediment to the
prosecution of their claim in a court of equity at any time
within *forty years than there is now. They have shown
nothing to mitigate the effect of their laches and long acquiescence, or which can entitle them to call upon a court of
equity to investigate the fairness of transactions after all the
parties to them have been so long in their graves, o grope after the truth of facts involved in the mist and obscurity consequent on the lapse of nearly half a century.

260

SUPREME COURT.
Matheson et al. v. The Branch Bagk of Mobile.

We are all of opinion, therefore, that the lapse of time in
the present case is a complete bar to the relief sought, and that
the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill should be
affirmed, with costs.
Order,
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Ohio, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court,
that the decree bf the said Circuit Court in this cause be and
the same is .ereby affirmed. with costs.
Mr. Justice McKINLEY did not sit in this cause.

MARIA MATHESON, JOHN DA RINGTON, ROBERT D. JAxES, BiLLUpS
GAYLE, JOHN GAYLE, AND EDWARD M. WARE, .PLAINTIFFS' IN ERRoE, v. THE BRANCH OF THE BAtiq
OF THE STATE OF ALAzAxA
AT MOBILE, DEFENDANTS.
Where the highest.court of a State affirmed the judgment of a court below, because
no transcript of the record was filed in the appellate court, such affirmance cannot be reviewed by this court under the twenty-fifth secti6n of the Judiciary Act.
Tie intention of the parties to' raise a constitutional qtiestion is not enough. It
must be actually raised and decided in the highest coirt of the State.

THis case wag brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Alabama, by a writ of error, issued under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act.
In. 1845, the Branch Bank of Mobile obtained a judgment
in the Circuit Court of 'Mobile county (State court) against
Maria Matheson, John Darrington, artd Robert D. James, for
the sum of ten thousand five hundred and seventy-three.dollars and- eighty-two cents.
On the 29th of May, 184"6, the defendants sued out a writof error,.retur'nable to December term, 1846, of the Supreme
Court of the State of Alabama. Billups Gayle, John Gayle,
and Edward M. Ware became their securities upon the appeal
bond..
Of the 224 of January, 1847, being a day of the December
term, 1846, the counsel of- the Branch Bank filed a certificate
of the clerk of the court below, stating the judgment and
writ of error; when it appearing that no transcript of the record was filed, the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama

