JANUARY

TERM, 1849.,

627

Shawhan et al. v. Wherritt.

mittena in the case- of Peck v. Jenness. The attachment in this
case Was made before the passage of the bankrupt statute. It
cannot with much reason be said, that the right which the defendant below acquired by his attachment, legal when made,
can be taken from him by subsequent legislation. Every objection, however, can be. made in this case, which can be taken
in relation to any attachment. The debt is discharged here,
to the same extent as any other debt.
As to the objections, that the statute requisites have not been
complied with which are essential to constitute an attachment,
I submit- that the State court is the exclusive judge in this
particular, and that its judgment is not open to review in this
court.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was argued with the case of Philip Peck et al. v.
John S. Jenness et al., and the record presents the same questions which have just been decided in that case. For the
reasons there assigned, the judgment of the Superior Court of
New Hampshire is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record to the Superior Court of Judicature of the State of
New Hampshire, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Superior Court of Judicature in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed, with
costs and damages at the rate of six per centum per annum.

JOHN L. SHAWHAN, DANIEL SH&wHAN, GEORGE H. PERRIN, BENTAxin
BERRY, CATHARINE SNODGRASS, AND ISAAC MILLER, APPELLANTS,
v. PERRY WHERRITT, ASSIGNEE OF THE BANKRUPT ESTATE OF BEN.
:3AIIIN BRANDON.

A decree of the District Court of the United States, sitting in bankruptcy, whereby
a person proceeded against, in invitun, was declared to be a bankrupt, is sufficient evidence, as against those who were not parties to the proceeding, to show
that there was a debt due to the petitioning creditor; that the bankrupt was a
merchant or trader within the meaning of the act; and that he had committed
an act of bankruptcy.
Thp first section of the bankrqpt act declares that the making of any fraudulent
conveyance, assignment, sale, gi or other transfer of lands, tenements, goods, or
chattels, is the commission of an ad'fof bankruptcy.
No creditor can, by instituting proceedings in a State court, after the commission of

628

SUPREME COURT.
Shawhan et al. v. Wherritt.

an act of bankruptcy by his debtor, obtain a valid lien upon the property con.veyed by such fraudulent deed; if he has notice of the commission of an act of
bankruptcy by the debtor. It passes to the assignee of the bankrupt for the benefit of all the creditors.
A lian thus acquired is not saved ly the proviso of the second section of the bank±iipt law. That proviso does not protect liens which are inconsistent with the
second and fifth sections of the act, and these sections declare such a lien to be
void.
THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
I
States for the District of Kentucky.
On the 6th of April, 1842, Benjamin Brandon executed the
following deed :-I

"This indenture, made and entered into this 6th day of
April, 1842, between Benjamin Brandon, of Harrison county
and State of Kentucky, of the one part, and William A. Withers, of the county and State aforesaid, of the other part, witnesseth That the said Benjamin Brandon, for and in consideration of one dollar, to him in hand paid, and for the further
consideration hereinafter mentioned, hath given, granted, bargained, sold, released, conveyed, and confirmed, and by these
presents do give, .grant, bargain, sell, release, convey, and confirm unto the said William A. Withers, his successor or successors, for ever, all the estate, real, personal, and mixed, of
whatever nature or kind it may consist, (except such' property
only as by law not subject to execution,) said estate hereby
conveyed consisting of a tract of about 336 acres of landi situated in the State and county aforesaid, and the same tract on
which said Brandon now resides, and on which is a steam-mill
and distillery, the boundary of which land is more particularly
designated in the several deeds which said Braadon holds for
said land; also, five negroes, two wagons ana teams, about 400
head of hogs, about 15,000 pieces of cooper's stuff, all his
stock of horses, cattle, and sheep, his .household and kitchen
furniture and farming utensils, his debts and choses in action,'
of every kind and description ; it being the intention of'said
Brandon, by this deed, to convey to the said-Witlers and his
sutccessors, for ever, all his estate, real, personal, and mixed, and
choses in action, with the exceptions hereinbefore expressed,*
whether the same be particularly mentioned and set forth in
this instrument or not. To have and to hold all the estate,
real, personal, and mixed, and choses in .action, hereby conveyed to the said William A. Withers and bis successor or successors, for ever, in trust, for the following purposes, namely.
To collect the debts and choses in action due, payable, or owing to said Brandon, and to sell the real estate hereby conveyed, either all together or in lots, as said trustee may think
most advisable, at public auction, to the highest bidder, on the

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

629

Shawhan et al. v. Wherritt.

following payments: namely, one third of the purchase-money
to be paid-in hand, and the residue in one and two years; and
the slaves and personal estate to be sold at public auction to
the highest bidder, on a credit of twelve months; and after
making to said trustee a just and reasonable compensation for
his trouble and expenses. in executing this trust, to pay all the
money which he may receive as trustee aforesaid, either by
the collection of debts or choses in action, from the proceeds
of the pale of the trust estate, to all the creditors of said Brandon, ratably, proportionably to the amount of their respective
debts or'demands; but should any one or more of the creditors of said Brandon become the purchaser or purchasers of
any portion of the real or personal estate, or slaves, hereby
conveyed, said trustee is authorized and empowered to accept
the debt or debts duae or owing by said -Brandon to such purchaser or purchasers, in payment for their respective purchases,
so far as said debts may go ; and -in such cases, if any such
should occur, only the residue of the price to be distributed
pro rat&as aforesaid; and after the payment of all said Brandon's debts, to pay the residue, if any, to said Brandon, his
heirs and assigns;' and the title to' the estate hereby conveyed
'he doth hereby warrant and defend to said Withers, and his
successor or successors, for ever, in trust for the purposes
aforesaid, against the claim or claims of him, the said Benjamin Brandorl, and* against all other claims. 'In testimony of
which, the said Benjamin Brandon hath hereunto subscribed
his name and affixed his seal, this day and year first above

written.

BENSAmiN BRANDON."

On the 3d of May, 1842, John L. Shawhan and others filed
a bill in the Harrison Circuit Court of Kentucky, sitting as a
court of equity. The bill recited-, that the complainants were
creditors of Brandon'; that he had executed the deed above
set forth, "for the purpose of hindering, delaying, and defrauding the creditors of the said Brandon in the collection of their
debts"; that the trustee was about to sell and dispose of the
property mentioned in the deed; and prayed for an injunction
-to stop him.
On the same day an.injunction was issued, and served upon
Brandon and Withers, the trustee.
On: the 21st of May, 1842, Brandon and Withers Ied separate answers to the bill. 'Brandon admitted his indebtedness,
and the execution of the deed of trust; averred that Shawhan was present while the deed was preparing, and expressed
himself satisfied with its provisions; denied most positively
that he executed said deed either to hinder, delay, or defraud

53*

630

SUPREME COURT.
Shawhan et al. v. Wherrift.

his creditors, but, on ihe contrary, in good faith, believing
that general satisfaction would be given to them. The answer of Withers was to the same effect as that of Brandon.
On the 25th of June, 1842, 'Withers and Brandon applied
for an order to change the venue. It was granted, and the record sent to the county of Bourbon.
On the 24th of September, 1842, John Lail presented a petition to the United States -Kntucky District Court, sitting in
bankruptcy. It alldged that, on the 6th -of April preceding,
.Brandon had made a fraudulent conveyance with intent to defraud his creditors; and'that he had concealed himself to avoid
being arrested. It then prayed that the court might declare
the said Benjamin Brandon a bankrupt. With the petition
were filed several exhibits, which it is not necessary to state
particularly.
On the same day an order was passed, setting, down the
hearing for the 4th of the ensuing November, and, in the
mean time, enjoining the defendant and all others from removing or otherwise disposing of the property of the defendant, or
which, on the decree, the assignee might be entitled to reclaim
arid recover.
On the 22d of October, 1842, the Bourbon County Court,
before which ,the suit of Shawhan and others against Brandon and Withers was pending, passed a decree annulling and
setting aside the deed of trust, as being, in point of law, fraudulent and void. The court enumerated many of the creditors,
whose claims had been exhibited, and then ordered, that "so
much of the personal property, slaves, and real estate mentioned in said deed of trust as may be necessary for the purpose be sold to satisfy the aforesaid debts."
Thomas B.
Woodyard was appointed to make the sale, according to certain given directions.
On the 22d" of November, 1842, the District Court of the
United States passed the following, order:"JoHN

LAIL v. BENJAMIN BRAnDON.

"The prayer of the petitioner, that the defendant be declared
a bankrupt, having been heard upon the allegations of the petition, and the proofs taken and filed, (the defendant having
failed to answer,) and now having been fully considered:
IfIt is found and adjudged by the court, that the said Benjamin Brandon, of Harrison county, being a retailer of merchandise, and indebted as in the petition mentioned, did, by making the deed of c6nveyance and assignment to William A.
Withers, of all his property, real, personal, and mixed, and
rights of property, subject to the payment of his debts by the

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

631 "

Shawhan et aL v. Wherritt.

laws of the State, bearing date the 6th day of April, 1842,
and on the 7th day of that month and year admitted to-record
in the clerk's office of the Harrison County Court, and in the'
petition mentioned, whereof a copy is filed here, now adjudged a fraudulent conveyance and assignment; and by concealing himself to avoid being served- with process, whereby a
suit had been commenced against him, thereupon became and
is a bankrupt.
"Perry Wherritt is appointed the assignee, and required to
execute bond in the penalty of $ 5,000, with two sufficient
sureties."
On the 24th of November, 1842, Woodyard, the commissioner appointed by Bourbon County Court, proceeded to sell
the personal property of Brandon. In May, 1843, the commissioner made his report to Bourbon
County Court, whereupon another decree was passed, reciting
that the former sale'was insufficient to pay the debts, and directing that so much of the land comprised in the deed of trust
as might be necessary for the purpose -should be sold for the
payment 6f the balance-of the debts.
On the 14th of July, 1843, the commissioner sold the land,
inconformity with the above order, and John L. Shawhan became the purchaser. A writ of possession was issued in his
favor, in April, 1844, which will be mentioned again in its
proper place.
On the 10th of August, 1843, Wherritt, as assignee of the
estate of Benjamin Brandon, iled a bill in chancery, in the District Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky,
against John L. Shawhan and the other parties named- in the
caption of this statement. The bill referred to the former
proceedings of the court, declaring Brandon to be a bankrupt,
and all -the other facts in the case. It stated that the assignee
had taken possession of the property of the bankrupt, including the land; that Shawhan and others knew of the commission of the act of bankruptcy, but had nevertheless obt.ined a
decree of Bourbon County Court, under the authority of which
they had sold the land to Shawhan, who wa§ threatening to
disturb the possession of the complainant, and by his threats
and false claims of title was preventing the complainant from
disposing of the land. It then prayed that Shawhan might
be ordered to surrender up, to be cancelled, any pretended
claim, and that all the parties might answer, &c.
On the 18th of December, 1843,. John L. Shawhan, DaniqI
Shawhan, and Benjamin Berry answered separately. Shawhan admited the execution, by Brandon, of the deed of April

SUPREME COURT.--Shawhan et al. .v. Wherritt.

6th, 1842, but denied that he had committed any acts of bankruptcy. - It admitted also the proceedings by himself in the
State court to'set aside the deed as fraudulent, and the decree
and sale as stated above; but jnsisted that by said proceedings
he had acquired a lien on the property, which could not be
impaired by the proceedings in bankruptcy, and that the proceedings in the State court, having been commenced before
those in bankruptcy, could not be affected by those, of the
District Court of the United States.
It is not material to state the answers of the other defendants. To these answers fhere was a.general replication.
At the April term, 1844, the Bourbon County Court passed
,a decree reciting the sale to Shawhan by the commissioner,
Woodyard, and proceeding as follows, viz. :"It is therefore decreed and ordered, that the said purchases
made by the said Shawhans be and the -ame are hereby confirmed; that the amounts so decreed to said Shawhans be and
the same are hereby extinguished and satisfied, by the aforesaid purchases made by them, except as to said balance of
$ 149.34, which was decreed to the Shawhans above the
amount of their purchases. That a writ of possession issue
in favor-of said John L. Shawhan, to put him into the possession of said tract of land mentioned in the complainant's bill;
that Thomas B..Woodyard, the commissioner herein, convey
all the right and title of the defendants, Brandon and William
A. Withers, in and to said triact of land, to said John L. Shawhan,, by deed of special warranty, warranting the title of the
same against the 'clairs of the' said Benjamin Brandon and
William A., Withers, and all persons claiming by, through, or
under them, but not against the' claim or claims of any other
person or persons whatever."
The decree then, proceeded to regulate certain details.
In June, 1844, the bill filed by Wherritt in the District
Court of the United States came on for hearing, when the
complainant prayed that the defendants might be ordered to
pay over the amount of sales of the personal property which
had been sold tinder the authority of Bourbon County Court.
A reference took place to a master in chancery, upon- the
coming in of whose reports the court passed the following final
decree, on the 10th of June, 1844.
"This cause having been heard at this term, and argued by
counsel, thereupon, on consideration thereof:
"It is 'adjudged by the court, that the complainant was invemted with all the estate which was of- said Brandon at the
time he became a bankrupt, and that the defendants did not,
by their after-commenced suit, and proceedings therein -had,

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

633-

Shawhan et aL. v. Wherritt.

(with notice of his act of bankruptcy,) obtain i right to have
it thereby subjected exclusively, or first, to the satisfaction of
their demands; and that the defendants, John L. Shawvhan,
Daniel Shawhan, George H. Perrin, Benjamin Bery, OMtharine. Snodgrass, and Isaa Miller,. by the subsequent sales of the
movable property.by them so caused,, did become, on the demand of the complainant here made, and are each of them, liable for his, their, and her proper portion of the proceeds thereof,
whereof they thus wrongfully obtained .the benefitj and must
pay the same, together with the interest thereon, to the corn-.
plainant, for the purpose of equal distribution required by the
statute ; and it is adjudged,.that the sale of the land so after-wards caused by the defendants was wrongfufl, and assailed
here by the complainant, was and is ineffectual, and did not
invest the defendant, John L. Shawhan, the pirdhaser, with
the right theret6, in opposition to the title which had previously passed by decree of :bankruptcy of its holder-so declared,
and was vested in, the complainant as the assignee -so appointed; but the said Shawhan, by the assertion of his pretended
claims so founded, has and does injuriously embarrass the title
of'the complainant.
"It is therefore ,ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the defendant, John L. Shawhan, do, on or before the first day of
July next, execute to the complainant, as assignee- of the bakrpt estate of Benjamin Brandon, a deed of release of all
right, title, and interest claimed by him, Shawhan, in and to
the tfact of land whereon the said Brandon resided, containing
350 acres, more -or less, in the county of Harrison, in 'th6 bill
and answers mentioned, with covenant of warranty against all
.
persons claiming by, through, or under him.
. "And it isadjudged and ordered, that said 'Shawhan do, on
or before the said- first day of July next, deliver to the complainant the possession of the said land."" '
The decree then went on to specify the amounts to be paid,
&c.
From -this decree there was an appeal to the'Circuit Court.
of the United States for .the District of Kentucky.
.On the 22d of November, 1844, the Circuit Court affirmed.
the.decree of the District Court.
The defendant appealed to -this court, and the cause came
up on this appeal:
It was. argued by Mr. Trimble, for the appellants, ana Mr.
Bibb, for the appellee.
The appellants assigned the following causes of error.
I. The Circuit Court erred in affirming the decree of the,
District Court, and in decreeing costs against the appellants.

634

SUPREME COURT.
Shawhan et al. uz Wherritt.

II. The Circuit Court ought to have reversed the decree of
the District Court, and dismissed the bill, on the following
grounds, to wit: 1. The bill ,filed by the appellee in the District C6urt is
predicated entirely on the provisions of the English statutes,
or the former bankrupt -law of the United States, passed in
1800.
2. There is no equity in the bill -:filed in the court below,
when tested by the late bankrupt law of 1841.
3. The bill alleges that the appellee is in possession of the
tract of land in conte~t, and prays the court to quit him and
the possession,, and protect him against the process of the
State court; and tha decree directs John L. Shawhan to restore the possession.
4. The decree assumes a fact which is contradicted by the
record. John L- Shawhan, &c., commenced their uit in the
State court several months before Brandon became a bankrupt,
and not afterwards, as is stated in the decree.
5. The principles assumed by the decree are expressly negatived by the bankrupt law of 1841, and can only be sustained
by adopting the provisions of the English statutes, or the
bankrupt law of 1800.
6. The decree directs the appellants to pay over to thd
appellee the amount of the sales of the slaves and personal
estate of Brandon, when. it appears from the record that the
commissioner took notes for the purchase-money, and the
appellafits have not received either the notes or the money.
7'. The petitioner was not a creditor of Brandon when the
petition'was filed.
That portion of the argument of the counsel for the appellants, which related to the principal point decided by the court,
was as follows, viz.: By the decree of the District. Court, it is said 'that the complainant in that court was invested with all the estate of Brandon at the time he became a bankrupt, and that the defendants did not, by a suit commenced afterwards, obtain a right to
have it subjected to their demand, &c. If, by that expression,
it -was intended to say, that, by the decree in - bankruptcy, the
assignee was invested with .all the estate of Brandon at the
time he made the fraudulent deed of trust, the opinion of the
court is in 'direct opposition to the plain and unequivocal
words of the third section of the act. That section expressly
declares that the estate of the bankrupt shall, -from the time
of the decree, be deemed to b- divested out of the bankrupt,
and by force of the decree be vested in the assignee. That
provision of the section must be abrogated, and other words

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

635

Shawhan et aL v. Wherritt.

interpolated before the.opinion of the District Court can be sustained. It would be a strange perversion of that section, to
say that the decree should have relation to an act of bankruptcy, contrary to the express words of the section. If that section had barely said that, by the decree, the estate should be
divested out of the banikrupt, and vested in the assignee, without reference to the time when the estate should be so divested, there might have been some room left for construction.
But such language has- not been used. ' On the contraryi the
words employed have left no room for 'construction as to the
time when the property shall be divested out of the bankript,
and vested in the assignee. The same section is equally explicit as to the power of the assignee to sell and dispose of the
property of the binkrupt. It provides that the assignee shall
have the same power to sell and dispose of the property which
might be exercised by such bankrupt before or at the time of
the bankruptcy declared. If, by the -decree in bankruptcy, the
property was divested 'out of the bankrupt from the time' of
making a fraudulent conveyance, he certainly could have no
power to s6ll or dispose 6f his property at the time of the bank-ruptcy declared. IfCongress had intended 'that the decree in
bankruptcy should have relation to an act of*bankruptcy,,'they
'would -have employed language indicating subh an intention.
They jiave not.done so, nor even left room for, construction on
that subject; but the most explicit language has been employed to prevent any such relation by construction., Neither the
English statutes, nor the former bankrupt law of the United
States, contain any provision ii ilar to that in the third'section of the late bankrupt law: The decisions in the English
books, and the decisions of the American courts, founded on
statutory provisions totally dissimilar, cannot, therefore, have
any influence on the question. The statute 13th Eliz' mpowers the commissi6ners in bankruptcy to sell and convey all
the Iaftds, and tenements which the panitrupt nad alt the time
he became a bankrupt; and further provides, that such conveyance shall be good against.the bankrupt, and all other persons
claiming by, from, or under him by any act after committing
the -act of bankruptcy. 2 B1. Com. 285; 2 Phil. Ev. 289.
The statutes of James I. direct the commissioners to assign
over to the assignees the whole of the bankrupt's estate, and
makes void all acquisitions of property by, from, or under the
bankrupt, at any time after' committing the act of bankruptcy.
A few cases, only, are excepted out of the general prohibition
by the same statutes, and'by the statute of 19th George I. 2
BI. Com. 485, 486; 1- Win. Bla. 68 ; 2 Win. Bla. 829. The.
tenth section of the bankrupt law of the United Stateb, passed

636

SUPREME COURT.
Shawhan et al. v. Wherritt.

in 1800, contains similar provisions. By the express provisions, therefore, of the English statutes, and of the bankrupt
law of 1800, the assignment of the commissioners vested in
the assignees the whole of the estate of the bankrupt which he
had at the time when he committed the act ef bankruptcy.. It
has already been shown, that the late bankrupt law contains no
such provision, but that its provisions expressly negative any
relation to an act of bankruptcy.
Mr. Bibb's argument upon the same point was as follows: SIII. The rights, titles, and authorities of the assignee when
appointed by the court, had relation to the act of bankruptcy
committed on the 6th of April, 1842, specified in the decree
declaring the bankruptcy; and overreached and avoided the
lien claimed by the appellants as the result of their proceedings
in the State court, so originated after and with full knowledge
of the prior act of bankruptcy.
i
Such relation is expressly enacted by-the second and third
sections of the act of 1841. That the effect, of such relation,
so enacted by t-he statute, is to annul all subsequent :acts by
which the assets of the bankruptcy are attempted to be divert,ed from the general fund for distribution among the several
creditors of the bankrupt, is a doctrine well settled by very.
many adjudged cases. These precedents may be arranged under four classes.
1st Class. Transactions by and with a bankrupt preceding
an act of bankruptcy, blit in contemplation of bankruptcy, and
for, the purpose of preferring a creditor contrary to the spirit of
the bankrupt law, and therefore void. ' Of this class these examples will suffice: -Locke v. Winning, 3 Mass. Rep. 325,
326, 329; Harman v. Fishar, 1 Cowp. 117, 123; Rust v.
Cooper, 2 Cowp. 629, 632, 633; Alder~on v. Temple, 4 Burr.
2238, 2239, 2241; Compton v. Bedford, I Win. Bla. 362.
-2d Class. Transactions by a bankrupt in themselves acts of
bankruptcy, and therefore void. Of this class these examples,
out of many others, will suffice: - Worsely v. De Mattos, 1
Burr. 468, 476, 484; Wilson v. Day, 2 Burr. 827; Alderson v.
Temple, 4 Burr. 2239,' 2240; Devon v. Wattsi and Hassells v.
Simpson, 1 Doug. 86, 89, 92; Linton o.Bartlett, 3 Wilson, 47.
3d Class. Transactions by and with a bankrupt after an act
of bankruptcy, committed, and before commission sued out,
void because after an- act of bankruptcy. Of this ,class, these
examples will suffice: - Hussey v, Fidell, 3 Salk. 59 ; Dyson
V.Glover, 3 Salk. 60; King v. Leith, 2 T. R. 141 ; Vernon v.
Hall, 2 T. R. 648 ; Dias v. Freeman, 5 T. R: 197.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

637

Shawhan et al. v. Wherritt.

4th Class. Efforts by process of law, after an act of bankruptcy, to abduct the property of the bankrupt from the assets
for distribution among the general creditors, avoided b the
conimission after taken out upon the previous act of jbankruptcy. Of this class these examples will suffice: -Sill v. Worswick, 1 H. Bla. 665; Cooper v. Chitty, 1 Burr. 20; Coppendall v. Bridgenr2 Burr. 817, 820; Smallcomb v. Cross, I Ld.,
Raym. 252; Rust v. Baker, 2 Strange, 996; Payne v. Teap_ i
Salk. 108; Smith v. Miules, 1 T. R. 475; Ward v. Macauleyj
4 T. R. 489; Buller's N. P. 41, 42.
Such must be the relation to the time of the act of bankruptcy, and such the effect thereof, according to the enactments
of the third, second, and fifth sections of the bankrupt law of
1841.
I put the third section foremost,. because that section de-.
clares that the rights, titles, powers, and authorit .s of the assignee shall relate, not only to thd'time of the act of bankrupt-cy committed, but even to a time before. the bankruptcy. I
refer to the second section for the purposes, first, to show that
thetime of the decree Passed is not the border and foremost
faculty given to rights of the assignee, (as has been argued for
the"appellants,) when .appointed by the court in consequence of
the decree, but that the relation thereof to the act of bankruptcy, upon which the decree is founded, is clearly avouched by
the second section; secondly, as explanatory of the sense and.
propriety of the expression in the third section, "before or at
the time of his bankruptcy."
The celebrated maxim of the Rabbins is, "In the law there
is no such thing as first or last." For in the law many things
are set down, all ttking effect, as the one law, at one and the
same time. The sages of the law have been used to collect
the sense and meaning of the law by comparing one part with
another, and by viewing all the parts together as one whole,
and not of one part only by itself,-. "Nemo enim aliquam partern recte "intelligere possit,' antequam totun iterum atque
iterum per legerit."" Lincoln College's Case, 3 Co. 59. b;
Stradling v. Morgan, Plowd. 05; Co. Litt. 381. a.
I do not cite the second section-as that- which.diredtly invalidates the lien set up by the appellants, but only as explanatory
of the third section. The nullity of the lien claimed by the
appellants by process of law in the State court, commenced
and carried on after the act Qf bankruptcy, results from the
relation of the rights' titles, po~veri, and authorities, of the as
signee to the time of Brandon's bankruptcy, committed on the
6th day of Apri, enacted by the third section, and the. system
of equality among all the creditors of the bankrupt establishedVoL. VU.
54

638

SUPREME COURT.
Shawhan et al. v. Wherritt.

by the fifth section. This eiquality among creditors, without
preference or priority, is the soul and spirit of the bankrupt
law, to which the second and third sections are but handmaid
and auxiliaries.
The English system of bapkruptcy having been in use long
before, the system of bankruptcy was enacted in the United
States, our statutes have borrowed the general outlines and
phrases from the English statutes and the adjudications thereon. In particular instances expressions are altered to make the
principle less dubious, and to enlarge the reach and 'extent of
the statute. It will therefore not be without utility, in conducing to a clear understanding of our statute of 1841, to run
a parallel between that and the English statutes.
By the English statute, the process against a bankrupt commenced by the petition of a creditor to the court, alleging the
particular act of bankruptcy which the debtor had committed;
So by ours. By the English statute and ours of 1800, the
proper-court, upon the presentation of, a petition, appointed, as
a matter of course, commissioners to hear and determine the
matters of the -petition against the debtor, and, if found true,
"to declare him or her a bankrupt." By our statute of 1841,.
the petition is heard by the court, and, if true, the bankruptcy
is declared by decree of the court. By the English system,
and by our statute of 1800, the debtor had notice of the time
and place appointed by the commissioners to hear and determine the matters of the petition, but no notice was given
generally to persons interested to show cause against the. petition. By our statute of 1841; notice of the time assigned by,
the proper court for the hearing of the petition is given by a
publication in one or more newspapers, at least twenty days
before the hearing, "and all persons interested may appear and
show cause, if any. they have, why the prayer of the petitioner
should not be granted."
By the English system, the commission of bankruptcy was
liable to be superseded (if improvidently issued) by application
to the Court of Chancery. Ex parte Gayther, 1 Atk. 144; Ex
parte Sydebotham, 1 Atk. 146; Ex parte Hylliard, 1 Atk.
147. -By our statute of 1841, section first, the decrees dqclar.ing the bankruptcy, when passed by the proper court, and not
regxamined upon the petition of the bankrupt within ten days
for a trial by jury, "shall be deemed final and conclusive."
By the English system, the creditors dppointed the assignees
to manage the estate and affairs of the bankrupt. By our
statute of 1841, the assignee is appoifited by the court, with
power of removal and new appointment, toties quoties.
By'the English statute, and ours of 1800, the commissioners

JANUARY TERM. 1849.

639'

Shawhan et al. v. Wherritt

made a formal deed of conveyance and assignment of the property and effects of the bankrupt to the assignee. By our statute of 1841, no deed of conveyance or assignment is made to
the assignee appointed by the court, but by the third section
the decree of the court is made to stand in the place, and to
have the effect, of a formal deed of conveyance and assignment
to the assignee, when thereafter appointed by the court.
By the former statutes, the estate and title of the bankrupt
were not divested out of him, nor vested in the assignees dhosen
by the creditors, until the formal deed of conveyance and assignment was executed by the commissioners to the assignees;
although the power and authority of the bankrupt over his
property was suspended by his act of bankruptcy. So is the
law stated to be, in the cases of Cary v. Crisp, 1 Salk. 108;
Brassey . Dawson, g Strange, 981, 982; Buller's N. P. 41.
By the first part of the third section of the act of 1841, " all
the property and rights of property of every name and nature,
and whether real, personal, or mixed, of every bankrupt,"
"who shall by the decree of the proper court be declared to be
a bankrupt within this act, shall, by mere operation of law,
iipso facto, from the time of such decree, be deemed to be divested out of the bankrupt, without any other act, assignment,
or other conveyance whatsoever; and the same shall be vested,
by foice of the same decree, in such assign6e as from time to
time shall be appointed by the proper court for this purpose,
which power of appointment and removal sach court may exercise at its discretion," &c. In this the allusion to the former
mode -ofassignment by a formal decree of conveyance is clear,
and the decree itself is made to have like effect.
By the former statutes, wheni, the deed of conveyance and
assignment was executed, the rights and titles'to the property
of the bankrupt were in the assignees choset by the creditors,
from the time of. the act of bankruptcy committed, by relation
or retrospect, according to the numerous cases before cited.
By the after part of the third section of the act of 1841, the
like relation, or retrospect, to the time of the act of bankruptcy
committed, is enacted as to the rights, title, and authorities of
the assignee when appointed by the court.
The words are, -" And the assignee so appointed shall be
vested with all the rights, titles, powers, and authorities; to
sell, manage, and dispose of the same, and to sue for and defend the same, subject to the orders and. directions of such
court, as fully, to all intents and purposes, as if the same were
vested in or.might be exercised by such bankrupt before or at
the time of his bankruptcy declared as aforegaid."
The word "before" so usea has reference to the provisions

640

SUPREME COURT.
Shawhan et al. v. Wherritt.

of the second section, whereby acts done "in contemplation
of bankruptcy, and for the purpose of giving any creditor, indorser, surety, or other person, any preference or priority over
the general creditors of such bankrupt," &c., "shall be deemed
utterly void, and a 'fraud upon this act." Such acts so done
before the act of bankruptcy, but being in contemplation of 'an
act of bankrupcy afterwards committed, and contrary to the
spirit of the bankrupt law, are declared void. Therefore, in
the third section, the-word "before" is introduced, in connection with the words." or at the time of his bankruptcy,"' so as
to make the relation of the title, powers, and authorities of the
.assignee embrace fraudulent transactions by and with a bank.rupt before the act of bankruptcy committed, as well. as after
-the
bankruptcy and before the appointment of the assignee.
The decree declaring the bankruptcy divests the title, rights,
and authorities !of the bankrupt out of-him ; the appointment.
and qualification of the assignee vests all the rights, titles, authorities, and pbwers in the assignee by relation, as fully as
they were vested in the bankrupt himself "before or at the
-time of his bankruptcy." Moreover, this relation, so established
by the word "before," extends to frauds and other injuries committed upon the property of the bankrupt, in invitum, before
his act of bankruptcy (and before he contemplated bankruptcy),
and to all other rights which the bankrupt himself might have
asserted, if the misfortune of bankruptcy had not happened to
him. -.So that fraudulent contrivances before or after the act
of bankruptcy are within the rights, titles, powers, and authorities of the assignee.
If all the time between an act of bankruptcy committed and
the decree pronounced upon the petition, after a notice (by
publication of not less than twenty days). of the time assigned
for the heging, had been left as an hiatus, a chasm, not filled
by the relation and retrospect of the title, rights, authorities,
and. powers of the assignee in bankruptcy, when appointed by
the court, and.thereby omitting all mesne acts contrary to the
spirit of the bankrupt law, then, indeed, the statute: would
have been impotent to protect and secure the funds and assets
of the bankruptcy, for that just equality and distribution among
all the creditors, - to every of the creditors bona fide a portion, rate and rate like, according to the quantity of his debt, which-are the soul, essence, and spirit of .a bankrupt law, and
the end designed and enacted by the fifth section.
Without such relation, the filing of the petition against a
bankrupt, and the publication of the notice for the hearing,
would have been a signal for acquiring priorities and Ipreferences, by levy-of executions, attachmerits, and every species

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

641

Shawhan -et at-,. Wherritt.

of depredation upon the estate, property, and effects of the
b)ankruptcy; the statute wotld have been but a dead letter.
For example, the, appellants claim the whole property of the
bankrupt by process and decrees in chancery begun after the
act of bankruptcy committed, having knowledge thereof, and
using the very fact and deed of trust, in itself a definite act
of bankruptcy, as the foundation of their attachment.
But the statute is not so lifeless, so powerless. The legislators who enacted the statute of 1841, using the lessons of former legislation, the wisdom of experience, and profiting by the
examples. of former times and the adjudications upon former
statutes of bankruptcy in England and the United States,
comprehended the truth, that the relation of the rights, titles,
pbwer's, and authprities of the assignee in bankruptcy to the
previgus time of the act of bankruptcy committed, (and even
CCbefore,") was necessary and proper to the end proposed, and
so enacted.
(Mr. Bibb then commented at length upon the case of
Sill v. Worswick, 1 Hen. Bla. 665, 694, which he- considered
very strongly in point.)
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
Perry Wherritt, as assignee of Benjamin -Brandon, a bankrupt, filed his bill in equity in. the District Court-of the United
States for Kentucky, setting forth that, on regular proceedings
in said court, Brandon was deemed and held to be a merbhant
and trader, within the bankrupt act, and found to have -com-'
mitted acts of bankruptcy by making a fraudulent transfer of
his property, and by secreting himself to avoid the service of
legal process, and was, therefor6, decreed a bankrupt, on the
22d of November, 1842; that the 'complainant was duly .appointed his assignee; that, on the 6th of April, 1842, Brandon
had made a fraudulent deed of trust of all his property to
William A. Withers; that John L. Shawhan and others, the
defendants and appellants, with a full knowledge of the acts
of bankruptcy, filed their bill in chancery in the Harrison Circult Court of Kentucky, against Brandon, Withers, and others,
charging that the said deed of ttust was fraudulent and void;
that the court decreed that the deed was void, and 'ordered the
property to be sold for the benefit of Shawhan and the other
creditors who had joined in the bill; that, since the 'decree in
bankruptcy, the State court had proceeded to sell the real and
personal estate of said.'randon; that Shawhan had purchased
a tract of land belonging to Brandon, of 350 acres, of which
the complainant had possession, whereby he was prevented
from disposing of said land for a fair 'price; and praying that
54*

642

SUPREME COURT.
I"

-

Shawhan et aL v. Wherritt.

Shawhan might be compelled to surrender and cancel his
claim, and for all such equitable relief, general and special, as
the merits of the case may require, &c.
The answer of Shawhan, admits the execution by Brandon
of the deed of the 6th of April, 1842, but denies that he had
committed any acts of bankruptcy. It admits, also, the proceedings. by himself in the State court to set aside the deed as
fraudulent, and-the decree'and sale as stated in -the bill. He
insists that by. said proceedings he had acquired a lien on the
property, which could not be impaired by the proceedings in
bankruptcy, and that the proceedings in the State. court, having
been- commenced before those in bankruptcy, could not be affected by them, &c.
"On the hearing of this cause at June term, 1844, before the
District Court, "the complainant prayed as specific relief as to
the moVable property which was of said Brandon at .the time lie
became bankrupt, and which the defendants afterwards caused
to be sold under the decree of the Bourbon Circuit Court,. that
the defendants be adjudged to pay the amount of said -sales ";
and- the court referred it to a master to report the amount of
the sales of personal property, and afterwards decreed, ." that
the complainant was invested with all the estate which was of
said Brandon at the time he became bankrupt, and "that defendants did not;, by their after-commenced suit'and proceedings therein had,, (with .notice of his act of-bankruptcy,) ob-.
tain a right to have -it thereby subjected exclusively or first to
the satisfaction of their demands; , and that the defendants,
Johi L. Shawhan, &c., by the subsequent sales 'of the movable property by them so caused, did become, on- the-dernand
,of the complainant here made, -and are, each of them, liable
for their proper portion.of the proceeds thereof, whereof they
thus wrongfully'obtained the benefit, and must pay the same,
together with interest, to the complainant, for the purpose of
equal distribution as required by the statute ;. and that the sde
of the land so afterwards caused by the defendants. 'was
wrongful, -and-assailed here by the complainant, was and is ineffectual, and did not invest the defendant, John L. Shawhan,
the purchaser, -with the right thereto, in opposition to the title
-which, had previously passed by decree of bankruptcy of its
*holder so declared, and was vested in the assignee so ppointed," &c., &c. It was adjudged and decreed, also, that Shawban should release all his title in the land to the complainant,
and the defendants severally pay over to the plaintiff the
money received'by each of them'from the proceeds of the personal property.
From this decree the defendants appealed to the Circuit

JANUARY TERM,, 1849.

643

Shawhan et aL v. Wherritt.

•Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky, where
the decree of the District Court was affirmed, and the defendants then prosecuted their appeal to this court.
' Of the numerous objections to the decree taken on the argument, it will be necessary to notice but two, being those
chiefly relied' on by the counsel for the appellants.
1. That the decree in bankruptcy wa not evidence, -as
against .the defendants, who were no parties to it, either that
there was a debt due. to the petitioning creditor, or that Brandon was apierchant or trader within the meaning of the bank='upt act, or that he had committed an act of bankruptcy. It is
a sufficient answer to this objection, - 1st. That the thirteenth
section .of the bankrupt act declares, that "the proceedings in
all cases of bankruptcy shall be deemed matters of record."
2d. Both parties admit the deed made by Brandon, on the 6th
of April, was fraudulent, and the first section of the bankrupt
act declares the execution of such a deed an act of bankruptcy. 3d. The record before us shows sufficiently that he was
a merchant or trader, and therefore liable to be declared a
bankrupt. The District Court had, therefore, plenary and exclusive jurisdiction of the subject-matter. 4th. The public
notice required by .the act having been given, the creditors
must- be treated as having notice of the proceedings, and an
-opportunity to make their objections to them, and having. neglected or refused so to do, they ought not to be allowed to impeach them collaterally, as they are, in the nature of a procebding in rem, before a court of record having jurisdiction.
5th. Even if the record in the bankrupt court be not conclusive as against the defendants, it is at lest primafacie evidence.
that all facts necessary to sustain the decree were proved before the court; and lastly, thi record of this case shows sufficient evidence t6 sustain the decree on all points. Besides,
the third section of the act declares, that "all the property,
&c., of every bankrupt, (except as hereinafter provided,) who
shall by a decree of the proper court be declared to be a bankrupt within -this act, shall, by mere operation of law, ipso facto,
from the time of such decree, -be deemed to be divested out of
such bankrupt, without any other act, assignment, or other
conveyance whatsoever; and the same shall be vested by force
of the same decree in such assignee," &c. As the court had
jurisdiction ,of the subject-matter and person of the, bankrupt, the decree is thus made conclusive evidence of the tltle
of the assignee.
The English cases can have no application to this .question,
as there-all proceedings, in bankruptcy are before commissioners, under-a commission issued out of chancery, and the commissioners are not a court of record.

644

SUPREME. COURT.
Shawhan et al. v. Wherritt.

2d. The chief and important 4uestion involved in this case
is whether the appellants, after an act of bankruptcy of which
they had full knowledge, could, by roceeding in a State'
court, obtain a valid lien, and seize the property of the bankrupt to the exclusion of his other creditors, or. whether such
proceeding be not a fraud on the bankrupt law, and therefore
void.
. The appellants in their -answer deny their knowledge of
the act of bankruptcy, and that the defendant was a.bankrupt
before the .decree. But this, seems-rather a denial of the law
than of the fact ; for the bill filed by them in the State court
alleged that the deed made by Brandon of all'his property to
a trustee, on the 6th of April, 1842, was fraudulent and void.
The first section of the bankrupt act, in enumerating the acts
*for which a merchant or trader shall be liable to be -declared a
bankrupt, by probeedings in invitum, mentions the making of
"any fraudulent conveyance, assignment, sale, gift, or other
transfer of his lands, tenements, goods, or chattels," &c. By
their own showing, therefore, they had knowledge of the fact
of bankruptcy. The acts thus enumerated are usually termed
acts of bankruptcy, and may be considered as tests of insolvency, showing conclusively the inability of the trader to pay
his debts, or carry on his trade. The policy and aim of bank,rupt laws are to compel an equal distribution of the. assets of
the bankrupt among all his creditors. Hence, when a merchant or trader, by any of these tests of insolvency, has shown
his inability to meet his engagements, one creditor cannot, by
collusion with him, or by a race of diligence, obtain a preference to the injury of. others. Such conduct is considered a
fraud on the. act, whose aim is to divide the assets equally,
and therefore 'equitably. To prevent these frauds, the English bankrupt laws give the title of the assignee a relation
back to the act- of bankruptcy, so as to avoid all'payments,
sales, or contracts made after it. The second section- of our
bankrupt act effects the same object, not by establishing the
doctrine. of relation in direct terms, but by declaring all such
payments, transfers, &c. 1 void, and a fraud on the act, and enabling the assignee to recover the money paid, or property
transferred, for'the use of the. creditors. This section declares"
fraudulent and void, not only "1future payments, securities,
conveyances, or transfers of property, or agreements made or
given by any bankrupt in contemplation of bankruptcy, and
for the purpose of giving a preference or priority to one creditor over another," but that 'all other payments, securities,"
&c., "to any person whatever, not being a bond fide cleditor
or purchaser for a valuable consideration without notice, shall

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

645

Shawhan et aL v. Wherritt.

be deemed utterly void and a-fraud on this act"; and the assignee is authorized to sue for, and recover and receive the
same, as part of the assets of the bankruptcy.
It avoids, not only payments, securities, &c., made in collusion
with a bankrupt in contemplation of bankruptcy, but thpse obtained by a creditor with notice; and it afterwards defines this
notice which is the test of fraud or want of bona fides in the
creditor to be "notice of a prior act of bankruptcy, or of the
intention of the bankrupt to take the benefit of this act." A
creditor may always recover payment of his debt, or security
for it, from'his debtor, unless he has notice or knowledge that
his debtor has committed an act of bankruptcy; and then he
is forbidden to receive payment of his debt, or to obtain any
other priority or advantage over the other creditors of the bankrupt. And if notice*of this fact to the creditor makes a payment by the debtor v6id, it is obvious that a security or priority gained by suit in a State court after such notice could have
no better claim to protection; for notice of the act of bankruptcy to the creditor is the test of the mala fides which
vitiates the transaction.
The last proviso of the second section, which saves all " liens,
mortgages, or other securities on property, which may be valid
by the laws of the States respectively?' subjects them, nevertheless, to this condition; that they shall not "be inconsistent
with the second and fifth sections of the act." Liens or securities which would be ,ftherwise valid by the State laws, being
made void by the second section when obtained after notice of
an act of bankruptcy, are, consequently, not saved by this proviso; but .the property subject to them vests in the assignee
discharged from such lien, and .if the property has been sold
under process from a State court, the creditor is liable to refund
the money thus received to the assignee of the bankrupt.
Having obtained this preference mala fide, in fraud of the
bankrupt law, he cannot be suffered to retain the fruits of it to
the injury of other creditors; otherwise, the whole policy and
aim of the law would be-frustrated.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the lien obtained by Shawhan upon the property of Br~ndon by his proceedings in the
State court, after notice of the act of bankruptcy, was not
saved or protected by the proviso to the second section of the
act, and that he and the other appellants, who had appropriated
the assets of the bankrupt to their own use, are liable to refund. the same to the assignee in this suit; and that the decree
of the Circuit Court of the United States for. the District of
Kentucky should be affirmed.

646

SUPREME COURT.
Sadler et al. v. Hoover et al.

Ordei.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court,
that the 'decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be and
the same is hereby affirmed.with costs.

WILLIAM' AND FRANcis SADLER, COMPLAINANTS,
v. THoAAs B.
HOOVER, SYLVANuS CHAMBERS, AND SAMUEL H. DINKINS, PART.

HERS BY THE STYLE OF

TuoMAs B.

HoovER AND CoxPANY.

Where an appeal from a Circuit Court, sitting in chancery, is brought up to this
court upon a certificata of division in opinion, and the certificate states that the
court was not able to agree in opinion, one of the judges being of opinion that a
decree should be rendered for the complainants, and the other that a decree should
be rendered for the defendants, this was not such a distinct statement of the point
or points upon which the judgesdiffered as would give this court jurisdiction.
The appeal must, therefore,.be dismissed, for want of jurisdiction.

THIS case -came up, on' a certificate of division, from, the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of Mississippi.
The following is the statement of facts agreed upon in the
court belowj by the counsel for the respective parties, and sent
up with the record.
"NM. SADLER and FRANCIS SADLER,)
V.
In Chancery.
THOMAS B. HOOVER and others.
"In the Circuit - Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Mississippi.
"The bill states that at May term, 1839, of the Circuit Court,
the defendants, Thomas B. Hoover & Co.,'recovered judgment
against them, and one Francis Ross, their surety, for $ 3,501.84.
debt, and $ 383.65 damages, with interest theregn from the 17th
of May, 1839, and costs of suit; and at the same term, another
judgment against them, and one W. D. Henry, astheir surety,
for $ 7,881.66, with interest from the 17th of May, 1839, and
costs of -suit. That executions issued on said judgments, and
forthcoming bonds have been given with one Robert Ridley, as
security in each case, and that said bonds were returned forfeited to the November term, 1839, and executions about to
issue thereon; that the instruments of writing on which these

