760

-SUPREME COURT.
Massingill'et al., v. Downs.

District of Ohio, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now fiere ordered and adjudged by this
coutt, that the judgment of the said Circiit Court in his cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed,, with costs, and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit
Court, for further proceedings to be had .therein, in conformity
to the opinion of this court.

W. AND

H. MAsNGL,

PLMNTIFFS, 'v.

A. C. DowNs; Cr. w .•-

Where ajudgment was obtained in the Circuit ,Court'of the United States for the
District of Mississippi in 1839, and in 1841 the State of Mississippi passed a
law, requiring judgments to be recorded in a particular way, in drder to make
them alien upon'prperty, this statute did not abrogate the lien which Md been
acquired under the judgment of 1839, although the, itter had not been recorded
in the manner require&by t4e statute.

This case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States ko, the Southern District of Mississippi, upon a certificate of division in opinion between the judges thereof.The facts are fully set forth in the opinion of the court, as
,delivered by Mr. Justice McLean, to which the reader is
referred.
It was argued by 'Mr. Sargent and Mr; Bell,'for the plain-'
tiff, and Mr. Lawrence' and Mr. Badger, for- Downs, the
claimant,
Mr. Sargent and Mr. Bell 'made the following points:.1. When this judgment was entered, it became a lien on allthe .personal and real property of Chewning, in Mississippi.Hutch. Miss. Code, 881, 282. -Brown v. Clarke, 4 How. 12;
4 Stat. at Large, 184; ib. 278; Rankin v. Scott, 12 Wheat., 177;
United States v. Morrison, 4 Peters, 124; Burton v. Smith
et al., 14 Fe--ers, 464' Tayloe et al. v. Thompson-, 5 Peters,
358.
.2. The rules' of court,- so -far as they bie .more than declaratory of the effect of the United States process act .of1828,
adopt the State _practice of November 25, 1839; they adopt
nothing prospectively.
3. The' State act of 1841 .does not purport to. operate on
federal *judgments. No State statute can operate yproprio vigore
to affect directly, or indirectly a judgment of the federal courts.
Wayman V. Southard, 10 Whet. 1; Bank of the United
States v. Halstead, ib. 51.

'JANUARY TERM, 1849.

761

"Massingill et aL v. Downs.

4 There had been no adoption by Congress, or the fed-eral. courts' of Mississippi under the authority of Congress,- of
the State act requiring the filing of an abstract of judgments
in the county where the defendant's property -is situated, at
th6 time this execution was levied.
Mr. Lawrence, for the claimant.
Is the law of Mississippi as to the limitation of liens of judgments applicable to the judgments of the federal courts?
- We contend that it is, because the lien of a judgment is
something affecting property, forming no intrinsic quality of
.the judgment itself as such, but derived entirely from the sovereignty within whose jurisdiction the property affected by it is
situated.
It is said that a State cannot interfere with and control the
federal courts in relation to the effect and operation of their
judgments; that it would leave those courts entirely at the
mercy of the State legislatures.
This is thd most plausible, if not the only, argument against
us in this case, and a slight examination will show that it is of
no real weight.
We do not contend that the States can interfere with the
effect of the judgmnents of the United States courts, either in
.making them less than judgments in fact .or in law, or in preventing the frction of those judgments by process of execution.
Congress has, under the Constitution, the exclusive power_.to
regulate the proceedings in the United States courts; and even
where the fornis of process used in the States are adopted, it is,
after all, but an exercise of the same power of Congress, and
not a recognition of any authority over the subject by the
States. Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1.
If, therefore, a State law should enact that a judgment should
bde no evidence of debt, or should abolish all writs of execution,
such a law would not be applicable to the proceedings of the
federal courts, because, in the first instance, it would take away
the proper intrinsic effect of the judgment itself, and manke it, in
whole or in-part, no judgment; and, in the other instance, it
would take from the United States courts a necessary part of
the organization of a court, hamely, the power to carry into
effect its own judgments.
But the lien of a.judgment is not an intrinsic quality of the
judgment itself, nor is, it any part of the process of a court for
enforcing a judgment.
1st. A judgment is in: effect what it is definea to be'in
theory "the sentence of the law given in a court of law. ' ;
The lien of a judgment is a quality added to it, -a quality

64*

762

SUPR.EME COURT.
Massingill et al. v. Downs.

not in aiiy manner altering it as the sentence of 'the court, but
superadded to it, taking effect on property, qualifying property,
restraifiing the alienation of property; not hy an -act .ofappropriation and. 'sale 'under an execution, (which come under the
denomination of "proceedings," and are subsequent to the
judgment,) but is the effect of the mere existence of the judg-.
ment.
Now it is a matter of legal history, that, originally, judgments
did not-constitute any lien at all on property in England, which
proveg that the lien of a judgment was no part of the judgment
itself.
It is matter of.legal history, that even executions could not
be levied on lands in England before the Stat, of Westm. 2.
Consequently the -common law judgments could not affect real
property, either by lien or otherwise.
It is true that it has been held in England, that this statute
gave a lien on lands as a consequence- of the elegit, and. it has
been supposed that therefore a lien 'was. the consequence of
every execution.- But. this by no means follows, for it has
never been held that the right of levying an execution on persofial property -has created a lien -on that species of proferty by
the mere rendition of the judgment, as would have been the
case if the lien resulted-from the right of execution alofie.. We
think that this consequence was peculiar to-the writ ofielegiti
which was authorized by the Stat. of Westm. a. It has never in
England been held t6 result from any other writ of execution.
Prior to 1824, judgments did not constitute a lien on property
in Mississippi.
It is only, by virtue of local law that this lien exists. It is a
-qualification of property which can only be derived from the soveraignty within whose jurisdiction the property to be affected by
it is situated. That sovereignty can confer it or take it away,
or modify it when. conferred. 'That sovereignty can attach itto a judgment, or to a bond, or to any thing else. But wherever
and however attached, it is a regulation of property emanating, not from the court, but from'the local authority. United
States v.- Crosby, 7 Cranch, '115; Wayman v. Southard, 10"
Wheat. 25; McCormick v. Sullivan, 10 Wheat. 192; United
-States v.'Morrison, 4".Pet. '136; Ross v. Duvall, - 13 Pet. 61;
Tayloe'v.Thompson, 5 Pet. 367,368; Reid v.House, 2 Humph.
576; Thompson -e. Phillips, 1 Bald. C. C. 273, 274; Manhattan Co. v.Evertson, 6 Paige, 466, 467 ; Con'ard v. Atlantic
1
Ins. Co., 1 Pet. 443.
Second, the lien-attached to a:judgment is not (within the
meaning of the acts of:Congires$) any part of the -"' process" of
a'court,.or of.its msodes of prodeeding. -

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

763

Massingill et aL v.-Downs.

If it is, it must be a part either of the final process, or else of
the modes of proceeding to carry the judgment into effect.
In Annis v.-Smith, 16 Pet. 312, 313, this court has laid down
what "process "1is, and what "modes of proceeding"1 are, as
those terms are used in the act of 1828.
It is there said that "1final process" means. all the writs "of
execution then in use, and "modes of proceeding" are the
exercise of all the.duties of the ministerial officers of the States
prescribed by the laws of the States for the purpose of obtaining the fruits of judgments. See also United States Bank v.
Halstead, 10 Wheat. 61, 63.
Now a lien is certainly not a writ br precept of any kind. It
is no part of the action of the court in a suit, nor is it the exercise of a ministerial duty of an officer of: the court, nor even the
result of any such exercise of duty. -It is no prpceeding at all,
it implies no action at all; and the whole progress of a suit
may go on now, as it did forinerly, from the original writ to the
satisfaction of the judgment by a sal6 under execution, without
any lien whatever. It is a mere dormanit, extrinsic quality, attached td the judgmeni not by the court, nor in the federal.
courts by the power creating those courts, but by another
power, taking effect not on the judgment itself, but.upon property, qualifying that property and restraining its alibnation.
But it may be said that the Circuit Court, in compliance with
the law of 1828, did, in 1837, make a rule that the lien of
judgments and decrees shall continue as now provided by law,
and that the Mississippi act of 1841,. now in controversy, has
not been adopted.
To this we answer, that if the lien of a judgment is a regulation of property, and not a "process" or "1mode of proceed-.
ing," then this rule of court can have no effect whatever. It
was beyond the power of the court.
Whether or not Cbngress itself has the power to say what
.shall or shall not. constitute a lien on property within a State,
it is not necessary now to inquire, because we say that Congress has not attempted to do it, nor has it atlthorized the courts
to attempt it.
We say, that, under the act of 1828, the Circuit Court of
Mis~issippi had no' power, by adoption or- the want of adoption,
to alter or continue a lien on property.
-The act of May, 1828, directed that writs of' execution and
other final process, issued' on judgments and decrees, and the
proceedings thereupon, shall be the same in each State as are
now used in each State. 4"Stat. at Large, 278, 279.
The third section of that act declares, that it shall, be in the
power of the courts so far to alter final process in said courts 0

7A

SUP REME COURT.
Massingiil et aL v. Downs.

to conform the same to any change made by the State legisla-tures for the State courts.
The thirty-fourth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 enacts
that "the laws of the several.States, except where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United States shall otherwise
require or prescribe, shall be regarded as rules of decison in
trials at common law-in the courts of the United States in caseswhere they apply." 1 Stat. at Large, 92.
The power of the court, then, in this respect, is confined 'to
the alteration of final process.
The case of Annis v. Smith, before referred to, (16 Pet.
312, 313,) has settled the meaning of "final process" to -be
writs of execution. The lien of a judgment not being a writ
of execution; the court has no power to adopt it, under the third
section of the act of 1828; and, besides, the third section obviously is confined to action in court,
Neither does the act of 1828, in the.preceding sections, adopt
the lien of judgments, unless it is "final process" or a "proceeding thereupon." But the case of Annis v. Smith has settled this latter expression to mean the exercise of a ministerial
duty of some officer of the court in the service of " final process."
If this be so, then, under the thirty-fourth section of the Judiciary Act, the United States courts are bound to regard the
law of the State upon the subject of the lien of judgments.
. (The'argument of M. Lawrence on the constitutionality of
the Mississippi statute is omitted, the decision having turned
upon the first. point.)
Of Mr; Badger's argument the reporter has no notes.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought in the Southern District of -Mississippi, to try the right of property which had been -levied on.
The plaintiffs showed @judgment of the Circuit Court, entered
the first Monday of November, 1839, for $ 3,716.43, with internst, &q., against one J. J. Chewning and others, on which an
execution 'had been issued 'and "1lvied upon, certain -slaves
claimed by A. C. Downs. At the time, of the levy, the property was in possession of the defendant Chewning. Downs
produced. a mortgage on the' slaves, executed by said Chewning, and regularly recorded, in favor of the "Commercial
Railroad Bank of Vicksburg," to show a title in 'the bank adverse to the right of the piaintiffs. This- mortgage bears date
subsequent to. that of the judgment.
On these facts,.the.court-were requested by plaintiffs to charge

JANUARY.TERM, 1849.
Massingill et al. v.

-

765

-ownns.

the jury "to disregard the mortgage, because of the paramount
right of the plamtiffs-to have execution of their judgment by
means of said levy, although no abstract or brief of the judgment had been recorded or enrolled in the county where the
property was situated."
And on this prayer for instruction.to the jury, the opinions of the judges were opposed; and,
at the request of the counsel on both sides, the point was certified to this court.
By the first section of the act of Mississippi of February 6th,
1841, it is provided that -"all judgments and decrees of any
circuit, district, or superior -court of law or eqtity, holden
within this State, -shall operate as liens from the date of their
rendition upon the property of the debtor, being within the
county in which the sitting of uch court may be holden, and
not elsewhere, unless upon compliance with the conditions here'inafter enacted."
By the. second sectidn,-" That any judgment or decree
heretofore rendered shall. bo -a lien from the date-of its rendition
upon the property of the. debtor, situated in any other county
than that in which the same was rendered, on condition that an
abstract thereof, on or before the first day of July next, be filed
in the office of the Circuit Court of the county in which said
property may be situate, in pursuance of the subsequent section
of this act."
The third section provides, that where an abstract of a judgment or decree is filed in the office of the clerk of the Circiit
Court, which it is made his duty to record, it shall' be a lien on
,the property of the defendant within the counity from the time
-of such filing.
The judgment undbr which the levy was made was rendered
more than aye~r before the above act was passed.
Prior to the act of 1824, there was 'no statutory lien of a
judgment in Mississippi. A lien was created in that State, as
in England, by the delivery of the execution to the sheriff.
The Stat. of Westm. 2, or 13 Ed. I., ch. 18, gave the elegit whiph
subjected rel estate to the paym4eht of debts, and this, as a consequence, it has always been held, gave a -lien on-4hp lands of
the "udgment debtor. 3 Salk. 212; 1 Wils, 39.
"1There is no statute in Virginia which, in eipress terms,
makes a judgment a lien upon the lands of the, dobtor. As in
England, the lien is the consequence of a:°'fht to take out an
elegit." -United States v. Morrison, 4 i" t. 136, And in The
Bank of the United States v. Wooster, 2 Brock. 252, the chief
justice says, ,1 The- lien depends oet, the right to sue out an
elegit."
The saine -doctrine was held'by. the Supreme Court of In-'

-66

SUPREME COURT
Massingill et aL v. Downs.

diana before the act of 1818 of that State, which gave a lien
on the real estate of the defendant by the judgment. Ridge
v. Prather, l'Blackf. 401.
In North Carolina, the lien on lands is created by the deliver'
of the execution to the sheriff, there being no statute inthat
State on the subject. And in other States of the Union,- the
same principle has been long established.
Now in: all these cases the lien arises from. the power to issue
process to subject real 'estate to the payment of the judg*ment, either by an extension or sale. In Maryland, this rule
has lieen extended by long usage, so that a lien is created by
the judgment without execution. Taylbe v. Thompson, 5
Peters, 369.
1The Circuit Courts of the United States exercise jurisdiction
coextensive with their respective districts. And it has never
been supposed, that, by the process act of 19th February,
1828, which adopted the process and modes of proceeding of
the State courts, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts was restricted. The "process and modes of proceeding." in the
.-State were adopted by Congress in reference to the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Courts, and not with the view of limiting the jurisdiction. of those courts.
In those States wheie the judgment on the execution of a.
State court creates a lien only within the county in'which the
judgment is entered, it has not been doubted that a similar
proceeding in the Circufit Court of the United States would
This has
create a lien to the extent of its jurisdiction.
been the practical construction of the power of the courts of
the United States, whether the lien was held to be created
by the issuing .of process or by express'statute. Any other construction would materially affect, and in some degree subvert,
the judicial power of the Union. It would place suitors in. the
State courts in a much better condition than in the federal
courts.
That by-the course of practice in Mississippi the lien of a
judgment in the Circuit Court extended throughout the district,
prior to the act of 1841, is not controverted. And the question
is,whether that act can impair or affect in any respect a judgment rendered in the federal court before its passage. The
point certified does not require us to consider whether the law
can operate on judgment liens entered subsequent-'to its date.
The plaintiffs in the above judgment acquired a right under the
authority of the United States, and that right may be protected
from any judgment of the Supreme Court of the State which
shall impair it,. under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary
Act

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

767

Mass.ingill et aL v. Downs.

It is contended that the lien in Mississippi exists by the
statute of the State, and that under the thirty-fourth section of
the Judiciary Act of 1789, it isa rule of property, and that it is
consequently a rule of decision for the courts of the United
States, and that' the process act of 1828 has no bearing upon
the question,.
The above section provides that "the laws of the several
States, except where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of
the United States shall otherwise require or provide, shall be
regarded as rules of decisions in trials at common law, in the
,courts of the United States, in cases where they apply."
No State statute is of more frequent application in thefederal courts than the above section; and it has often been
held that the settled construdtion of a State. statute by its
supreme court is considered as a part of the statute. And
the statute, as thus expounded, is regarded as a rule of-decision
in the courts of the United States where it applies, "except
where the Constitution or acts of Congress otherwise
provide."
The thirty-fourth section has never been considered as an
act to regulate process. And it is argued that a statutory lien,
being a rule of property, is applied to judgments in the Circuit
Courts, under this section, without being influenced, in any
degree, by the process act.
We. have seen that, where there is no statutory lien, it is
created by issuing and delivering to the sheriff an execution,
which authorizes the sale or extension of the real ebtate of
the defendant. In those States, it is the process authorized by
the judgment which creates the lien; and in such cases we
necessarily look to the nature of.the process, and the extent of
its opfration, to determine the lien.' It must. act upon the
land of the defendant, and consequently the land must. lie
within the jurisdiction of the court.
What is a judgment lien? In the argument, it was compared to a mortgage. "A mortgage is often called a lien for a
debt, but it is something more. It is a transfer of the property
itself as security for the debt.. This is true in law and in
equity."
Conard v. The Atlantic Insurance Company, 1
.Peters, 441. A judgment lien on land constitutes no property
or right in the land itself. "It only confers a right to levy on
the same, to the exclusion of'other adverse interests subsequent to the judgment; and when the levy is actually made
on the same, .the title• of the creditor for this purpose relates
back to the time of the judgment, to cut out intermediate enSubject to this charge, the defendant may
cumbrances."
convey the land.'• "A judgment creditor has no jus in re,.but

768

SUPREME COURT.
Massingill et'aL v. Diowns.

a mere power.to make his general lien effectual, by following
up the-steps of the law." What law? - The law which authorizes the judgment, and the issuing of the process through
which means the judgmertit may be satisfied. A failure to'do
this'releases the charge on the' property. lb.
The' lien,, if not an effect of .the judgment, is hiseparably
connected with it. 'And this is the case, whether the lien was
created-by the judgment and execution, or. by statute. And.
in edither case, where the right has attached in the courts of
the United States, a State has no power, b legislation or
otherwise, to modify or impair it. Retrospective. laws of a
remedial character may be pssed; but no legislative act can
change the rights and liabilities of parties, which have been,
established by a solemn judgment.
This court therefore direct, that it be certified to the Circuit
Court, that the right of lien claimed 'by the plaintiffs under the'
judgment is paramount to that of the defendant claimed
under the mortgage.
Order.
This cause came on, to be -.heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit' Court' of 'the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi; and on the point or question
on which the judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed
in opinion, and which was.certified to this court for its opinion,
agreeably to the act of C6ngress in such case.made -and provided, and was argued by counsel. On consideration- whereof,
it is the opinion of this court, that the right of lien claimed by
the plaintiffs under the judgment is paramount to that of the
defendant' claimed under the mortgage; whereupon it is novt
here ordered and adjudged by this court, that it be so certified
to the said Circuit Court.

