JANUARY TERM, 1849.

279

Crawford et al. v. The Branch Bank of Mobile.

This view is so clearly sustained on general principles, that
it is unnecessary to consider the other questions raised in the
case. Th-Supreme Court of Mississippi in the case of-Arthur
v. The Bank, 9 Smedes & Marshall, 394, held this deed to
be fraudulent against creditors; and also the Supreme Court
of Louisiana, in Fellows v. The Commercial. and Railroad
Bank of Vicksburg, 6 Rob. 246. The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court,
that the decree of the said Circuit C6urt in this cause be and
the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

WILLIAM CRAWFORD AND

DAVID

FILES,

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.

TE BRANCH BANK OF ALABAMA AT MOBILE.
A statute of the State of Alabama, directing that promissory notes given to the
cashier of a bank may be sued and collected in the name of the bank, is a law
which affects the remedy only, and, although passed after the note was executed,
does not impair the obligation of the contract.
Besides, the record ,does not show that the question of the consistency of the statute
with the Constitution of the United States was raised in the State court; and
therefore a writ of ehror issued under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act
must be dismissed on motion.

THIs was a writ of error sued out under the twenty-fifth
section of the Judiciary Act, and directed to the Supreme Court
of Alabama.
In May, 1841, the following promissory note was executed: " $ 3;817.50.
"Two hundred and fifteen days after date. we jointly and
severally' promige to pay to B. Gayle, cashier, or -order, three
thousand eight hundred and seventeen - dollars, negotiable
and payable at the Branch of the Bank of the State of Alabama,
at Mobile, for vahie received, this 31st day of May, 1841.
It WILLIAM CItAWFORD,

DAVID FILPS,.
R. .G. GoazoN."

On the 4th of December, 1841, the legislature passed an act,
from which the following is an extract : -"
All notes, bills.

0SUPREME

COURT.

Crawford et"al. v. The Branch Bank of Mobile.

.onds, or other evidences of debt, held by the State Bank or
branch banks, payable, to the cashier or to the person who has
filled the office of cashier of said bank or branch banks, may
'be sued and collected in the name of"the several. banks, in the
same manner as if they had been made payable directly to
said bank or branch banks by which the paper has been taken
or discounted." "No notice, writ, declaration, or judgment
which has been issued, filed, or rendered oii such papers, shall
be abated, set aside, or reversed, on account of the want of assignment, transfer, or indorsement of said papers by the officer or person acting as cashier to whom it was so made payable. But the legal title to such paper for all purposes of collection shall be deemed to have been in said bank or branch
bank by whom the paper was discounted." See Clay's Digest,
p...112, 5 47, 48.
In May, 1844, judgment was entered up upon the above
note in -a summary manner, upon motion and thirty days' notice, according to the law- of that State. - A jury was sworn,
'who assessed the damages at -$ 4,537.20.
The defendants took the following bill of exceptions, viz. :"Upon the trial of this cause, the plaintiff produced the original papers hereto attached, marked A, being the notice, the
certificates and returns, the note, and protest, and moved for
jndgment without further proof of the same. The defendants
objected -to the court taking cognizance of the case or allowing
judgment, which was overruled and judgment entered; to
which the defendants object, and pray the court to sign and
sea this bill, which is'done.
" SAMUL CHAPMAN,

Judge.

[sEAL.]"

!Upon this bill of exceptions the case was carried to the
Supreme Court of. the State of Alabama, and the following
errors assigned.
Assignment of Errors.
And the said William Crawford conies, when, &c., and says,
that there.is error in the record and proceedings of the court
below, in this, to wit: -.1. That it appears from the record and the note upon which
the suit is founded, and which is made a part of it by the bill
of exceptions, that the said promissory note was made payable
to B. Gayle, cashier, and that the said note has not been assigxked to th6 said branch bank, nor was it alleged or proved,
as the judgment entry shows, that the .said note was made or
given tothe said branch bank by the name of B. Gayle, nor
tha.B.,Gayle acted as the agent of the said bank in taking

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

28]

Crawford et aL v. The Branch Bank of Mobile.

said note; and that it doth not appear, from the record, that
the said branch bank has any interest in the said note.
2. That there is error in this, that it was-not proved to the
court below that Jacob'J. Marsh, who returned the notice executed, styling himself agent for the said branch bank, nor that
his handwriting was proved; but, on the contrary, it is stated.
inthe bill of exceptions that there was no proof to that effect.
WILLIAM CRAwEron,

for himself.

The Supreme Court of Alabama affirmed the judgment of
the court below, and a writ of error brought the case up to this
court.
Mr. Inge moved to dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction.
After stating the case, he argued that no question was shown
by the record to have been raised in the SUpreme'Coiirt of
Alabama, which could give this court jurisdiction. The validity of the statute did not appear to have been drawn in question on account of its incompatibility with the Constitution of
the United States; and if it had been, it must appear thit it
only pffected the remedy, without at all impairing the obligation of the contract.
Mr. Crawford filed a printed argument, in order to show
that the validity of the statute must necessarily have been
passed upon by the Supreme Oourt of Alabama, and that the
statute changed altogether tbe" terms of the contract. The
plaintiffs in error had made a contract with one person, and by
virtue of the statqte they were declared to have made this contract with another person, namely, the bank. The passage of
the act by the State of Alabama, and its application in favor of a "
bank owned by it, are admissions by those interested, and in fact
by the plaintiffs below in this cadse, under another name, that
the contract was not with the Bank of the State of Alabama,
but with B. Gayle.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
A summary mode of proceeding, authorized by its charter,
was instituted by the Branch Bank of .Alabama, in the Circuit
Court of the State,-against the'defendants below, on a promissory note for three thousand eight hundred aid seventeen
dollars fifty centsj dated 31st May, 1841, payable to B. Gayle,
cashier, or order, two hundred and fifteen days after date.
A jury being called and swoTn, found a verdict for the plaintiffs, on which judgment was entered. On the trial the defendant excepted to the opinion of the court, admitting as evidence the note, protest, &c. A writ of error being prosecuted

24*

SUPREME COURT.
Crawford et al. v. The Branch Bank of Mobile.

-

to-the Supreme Court of Alabama, the judgment of the Circuit
Court was affirmed.
In the Supreme.Court the following assignment of errors was
made "1. That it appears from the record and the note upon
which the suit is founded, and which is made a part of it by
the bill of exceptions, that the said promissory note was made
payable to B. Gayle, tashier, and that the said note has not
been assigned to the said branch bank, nor was it alleged: or
proved, as the judgment entry shows, that the said note was
made or given to the said branch bank by the- name of B.
Gayle, nor that B. Gayle acted as-the agent of the said bank in
taking said note ; and that it doth not appear, from the record,
that the said branch bank has any interest in the said note.
"2. That there is error, in this, that it was not proved to the
court below that Jacob J. Marsh, who returned the notice executed, styling himself agent for-the said branch bank, nor that
his handwriting'was proved ; but, on the- contrary, it is stated
in the bill of exceptions that'there was no proof to that effect."
A motion is made to dismiss this cause for want of jurisdiction, and on looking into the record it- is. clear there is no
ground on which'-this court can revise the judgment of the Supreme .Court of Alabama. No question-was made under the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 ; nor does it
appear that any law of Alabama, which impaired the obliga.-tion of the contract, influenced the judgment of the Supreme
.Court.
The note was made. payable to B. Gayle, cashier. And this
-designation, as cashier *vas not made, it is presumed, as matter
,of description, but to show that the note was given to the
-agent of the bank, and for its use. A law was passed in Alaliama authorizing suits to be brought on such notes in'the name
of -the bank; and it: is contended that this law impaifs the obligation of ihe. contract, especially as regards contracts made
-prior to its passage.
The law is strictly remedial. It in no respect affects the ob•igation of the contract. Neither the manner nor the time of
payment is changed. The bank, being the holder of the note,
and having the -beneficial interest in it, is authorized by the
,statute ,to su, in its own name. This is nothing more than
carrying out the contract according to its original intendinent.
The cause is dismissed.
Order.
This cause -came on to be iiead on the transcript of the record -of-the Supreme Court of the. State of Alabama, and on the

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

8S

Passenger Cases.-Smith v. Turner.

motion of Mr. Inge, of counsel for the defendants in error, to
dismiss this writ of error for the want ofjurisdiction. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that this cause be and the same is hereby dismissed
for the want of jurisdiction.

GEORGE SMITH, PLAINTIFF IN .ERROR, V.

WILLIAM TuINEE, HEALTH-

COMMISSIONER OF THE PORT OF

Naw

YORK.

JAMES NoRRIS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE CITY OF BOSTON.
Statutes of the States of New York and Massachusetts, imposing taxes upon alien
passengers arriving in the ports of those States, declared to be contrary to the
Constitution and laws of the United States, and therefore null and void.
Inasmuch as there was no opinion of the court, as a court, the reporter refers the
reader to the opinions of the judges for an explanation of the statutes and the
goints in which they conffilcted..with the Constitution aifd laws of the United
tates.

THESE were kindred cases, and were. argued together. They
were both brought up to this court by writs of. error issued under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act; the case of
Smith v. Turner being brought from the Court for the Trial of
Impeachments and Correction of Errors of the State of New'
York, and the case of Norris v. The City of Boston from, the
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts. The opinions of.
the justices of this court connect the two casds so closely,
that the same course will be pursued in reporting them which
was adopted in the License Cases. .Many of'the arguments
of counsel relate indiscriminately to both. A statement of
each case will, therefore, be made separately, and the argu-"
ments and opinions be placed in their appropriate class, as far
as practicable.
SMITH v. TuR.NER

In the first volume of the Revised Statutes of New York,
pages 445, 446, title 4, will be found the law of the State
whose constitutionality was brought into question in this case.,
The law relates- to the marine hospital, then established upon
Staten Island, and under the superintendence of a physician
and certain commissioners of health.
The seventh section provides, that "1the health-commissioner.
shall demand and be entitled to receive, and in'case of neglect
or refusal to pay shall sue for and recover, in his name of office,

