YANUART

TERM, 1849.

185

United States v. Chicago. •

Tim

UNITED STATES, COMPLAINANTS,

v.

THE CITY O1V CHICAGO.

Although the motion under argument in the Circuit Court was addressed to its discretion, yet if the questions which arose and upon which the judges differed ip.
volved the right of the matter, this court will entertain those questions.
So, also, where the questions are several in number, and so material as to decide the
whole case, this court will not dismiss them, provided they appear to have arisen
at one time, at one stage of the cause, and to have involved little beyond one
point.
The
corporate
powerstoofthe
theUnited
city of States,
Chicagoadjacent
have- no
to open
streets
ground
thethrough
although
the city,
to right
belcngin
property
government.
the
by
streets
nd
lots
i
out
ho been laid
Their right was limited to that°part which,
by sale
I ofthQ government, had become
o.
private property.
The fact, that streets had been laid out by an agent of the government,did not
amount
to a dedication of them to public use, so as to vest the control over apart
theni
in the city.
The United States, having been the proprietor of all the land and reserved
blold this part by a different title than where land is purfor military purposes, State.
chased by them in a

THIS case came up, on a certificate of divisio

n

opinion,

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
I fiinois.
In 1839, soon after the decision of the Supreme Court in
Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 49, deciding that southwest fractional quarter-section ten, township thirty-nine north, range
fourteen east, in the Chicago land district, having been selected
and used for military purposes, was not subject to premption,
in virtue of the authority vested in hiln,
of War,
the Secretary-sale
of a portion thereof
directed the
Secretary of-War derived this auathe
The act under which
of March, 1819, entitled "An act
3d
the
of
act
the
is
thority
authorizing the sale of certain military sites," which enacts,
of War be, and he is hereby, authorized,
"that the Secretary
under the direction of the President of the United States, to
to the United
cause to be sold such military sites, belonging
for mic-.
useless
become,
or
found,
States, as may have been
tary purposes. And the Secretary of War is .hereby authorized,
Treason the payment of the consideration agreed for into the
all
eliver
and
exeute,
make,
to
States,"
United
ury of the
needful instruments conveying and transferring the same in
fee; and the jurisdiction which had been specially ceded for
military purposes to the United States by a State over such
site or sites shall thereafter cease.",
Mr. Birchard, then Solicitor of the Treasury, was appointed
by the Secretary of War to make the sale, and to cause the
A
laud to be surveyed and platted, as an addition to Chicago. and
"into-blocks
land
the
dividing
plat was accordingly made,
lots, with intersecting streets. This plat, together with a de-

16 *

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Chicago.

scription of the same, was recorded in the office of the recorder
of Cook county, under the title of " Fort Dearborn addition to
Chicago."
By this plat, several streets then existing in Chicago were
-prolonged, and laid out through all the property which belonged
to the government. Lots were also laid off upon both sides of
the projected streets. But a portion of the property was expressly reserved from sale, and marked by dotted lines lettered
"Line of reservation." Within the reserved line, there were
many public buildings belonging to the United States.
On the. Ilth of April, 1845, the following -proceedings were
had by the Common Council of the city of Chicago: "Alderman Ogden, from committee on the judiciary, reported in favor of the petition of E. Bowen and others, for the removal of obstructions at the north end of Michigan Avenue.
Received and laid on the table. And,
"On rhotion of Alderman Scammon, it was ordered, that the
street commissioner be directed forthwith to open the street
(Michigan Avenue), and remove the obstructions therefrom;
and that the city attorney be directed to prosecute all persons
offering any resistance to the street commissioner whilst opening said street."
The city of Chicago was incorporated by an act of the Legislature of Illinois of the 4th of March, 1837. See Sessiori
Laws, 1836- 37, p. 50. By the first section .itis enacted,
"1That the district of cpuntry in the county of Cook, in the
'State aforesaid, known as the. east half of the southeast quarter
of section thirty-three, in township forty, &c....... and frac-tional section ten, excepting the southwest fractional quarter
of section' ten, occupied as a military post, until the same shall
become private property, &c....... in township thirty-nine
north, range number fourteen east, of the third principal meridian, in the State aforesaid, shall hereafter be known by the
name of the city of Chicago."
The inhabitants are incorporated by the name of the city of
Chicago, and the corporation is authorized to take, hold, purchase, and convey such real and personal estate as the purposes
of the corporation may require.
The twenty-fourth section prescribes the duties of the street
commissioner, -"to superintend the making of all public improvements ordered by the Common O6uncil, and to make contracts for the work and materials-which may be necessary for
the same, and shall be the executive officer to -carry into effect
the ordinances of tihe Common- Council relative thereto," &c.
The powers of the Corncoj'oncil over streets are conferred by the thirty-seventh, thirty-eighth, fortieth, ;_id forty-third

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

187

United States v. Chicago.

sections. The thirty-seventh enacts, that ." the said Common
Council shall have the exclusive power to regulate, repair,
amend, and clear the streets and alleys of said city, bridges,
side and cross walks, and of opening said streets, and of putting drains and sewers therein, and to prevent the encumbering of the same in any manner, and to protect the same from
encroachments and injury," &c.
The thirty-eighth enacts, that "1the Common Council shall
have power to lay out, make, and assess streets, alleys, lances,
highways, in the said city, and make wharves and slips at the
end of streets on property belonging to said city; and to alter,
widen, contract, straighten, and discontinue the same; but no
building exceeding the value of one thousand five hundred dollars shall be removed in whc*le or in part without the consent
of the owner. They shall cause all streets, alleys, lanes, or
highways laid out by them to be surveyed, described, hnd
recorded in a book to be kept by the clerk, and .the same, when
opened and made, shall be public highways." .The remainder
of the section prescribes the manner in which the damages
shall be assessed to the owners of laud taken.
The fortieth enacts, that "the Common Council shall have
power to cause any street, alley, lane, or highway in said city
to be graded, levelled, paved, repaired, macadamized, or gravelled," &c.
And the forty-third enacts, that "the land required to be
taken for the making, opeping, or widening of any street, alley,
lane, or highway, shall not be so taken and appropriated until
the damages assessed therefor shall be paid or tendered to the
owner or his agent."
A few days after the passage of theordinaiice by the Common Council, directing the street cormissioner to open Michigan Avenue, the United States filed their bill of complaint in
the Cirduit Court, setting their case fully forth, and praying for
a writ of injunction against the city of Chicago, its officers,
agents, servants, counsellors, and solicitors, to restrain them
from entering upon the unsold and reserved portion of the southwest fractional quarter-section ten aforesaid, embraced within
the dotted lines of the small map, marked "Line of reservation," for the purpose of opening "11Michigan Avenue," or the
other proposed streets, or from committing any waste or spoil
upon said land, buildings, or inclosures.
The district judge granted the injunction, and on hearing a
motion for its continuance in: the Circuit Court, the opinions of
the judge§ were opposed upon ihe following points :1st. Whether the corporate powers of the city of Chicago
iave'a right to open the streets through that part of the ground
laid out in lots and streets, but not sold by the government.

188

SUPREME COURT.
-

United States v. Chicago.

2d. Whether the corporate powers of the city are not iimit~d
to that-part of the plat which, by sale bf the government, has
become private property.
3d. Whether the streets laid out and dedicated to public use
by Birchard were not, by his surveying the land into lots and
streets, making and recording a map or plat thereof, did not
convey the legal estate in the streets to the city of Chicago,
and thereby made the ground embraced by said streets "private
property," so as to authorize said city of Chicago to keep said
streets open.
The cause was argued by r. Toucey (Attorney-General),
on behalf of the United States, no counsel appearing for the
city of Chicago.
Mr. Toucey presented the following points':-1st. The city of Chicago has no jurisdiction within Fort
Dearborn.
2d. There was no dedication of any street within the fort.
3d. The fort being reserved, there, was no power to dedicate.
a street within it.
4th. The State of Illinois has no power to remove the buildings of the United States within the fort, or to make'a highway there.
I. The city has no jurisdiction within the fort. The part
sold became private property. The lots, were sold by their
numbers, and were, in fact; bounded on the streets.. The title
passed to the centre of the streets, subject to the easement.
The adjoining proprietors own to the centre, subject to "the
way, as if it had been laid out by public authority. This is
the legal presumption, liable to be rebutted. Englisr authorities: Goodtitle v. Alker,, 1 Burr. 143;.Pring v. Pearsey, 7
Barn. & Ores. 306; Stevefis v. Whistler, 11 East, 51; Cook
v. Green, 11 Pric6, 136. Maine: 'Hoivard v. Hutchinson, 1
Fairfield, 335.- New Hampshire': Makepeace v. Worden, 1
N. Hamp.'R. 16. Massachusetts: United States v. Harris,- 1
Sumner, 21; Adams v. -Emerson, 6 Picki 557. Connecticut:Peck v. Smith, 1 Conn. R. 108 ,Watrous v. Southworth, 5 ib.
305; Hart v. Chalker; 5 ib. 311; Chatham .,fBrainard, 11 ib.
60. New York: Cortelyou v. Van Brundt, 2 Johns. 357; Gedney v. Earl, 12 Wend. 98; Willoughby v. Jencks, 20 ib. 96.
Virginia: .Bolling v. Mayor, 3 RaRdd..563. South Carolina:
Witter v. Harvey, 1 McCord, 67.
When 'the highway is dedidated, the title'of the land remains
in him who dedicates, and will pass to his grantee. The public take an easement only. Lade. v. Shepherd, '2 Stra. 1044;
Cincinnati v. White, 6 Pet. 437; Barclay v.- Howell's Lessee,

JANUARY TERM, 1849.
United States

189

v. Chicago.

ib,513-; Hobbs v. Lowell,.19 Pick. 408, Shaw, C. J.; Pearsall
v. Post, 20 Wend. 126, 131, 132, Cowen, J.
The jurisdiction of the city extends as far as the line of private pr9perty, which is the line of reservation on the plat, the
present boundaiy-line of the fort. It has none beyond. See
the act incorporating the city of Chicago, Illinois Session
Laws, 1836- 37, p. 50. The streets outside of the fort were
effectually dedicated when the lands were sold, the streets
opened, accepted by the public, and used as public streets
Cincinnati v. White, 6 Pet. 431; Barclay v. Howell's Lessee
ib. 498; New Orleans v. United States, 10 Pet. 662.
If. There was no dedication of any street within the fort.
The present fort is the part not sold. It was expressly reserved
by the United. States when the sales commenced. The whole
interest is. in the United States. The proposed streets within
the fort or line of reservation have not been opened, nor dedicated, nor lots sold on them. They are covered in part by the
necessary buildings of the fort. The United States own them,
and the land on both sides; and the Executive Department retained to the line of reservation for the purposes of the government, before any of the land beyond that line had been disposed of. The first act of dedication -or disposition had not
taken place. The map recorded, without any other act done,
would be immaterial: If the sale had been entirely countermanded, the recorded survey would have been a dead letter; it
is so now within the line where they were countermanded, or
not authorized. The plan of Birchard was disallowed to the
extent of the present fort. That order was effective, and is
to be taken as the order of the President. A dedication is
founded upon user. Dedication is the act of giving up land to
the public. It must be enjoyed in pursuance of the gift. An
enjoyment for a less period than that prescribed by the statute
of limitations may suffice, if accompanied by other decisive
acts. Maps, plans, declarations, are evidence. Dedication is
applicable only to the creation of public rights. Private rights
are measured by the grant. Mercer Street, 4 Cow. 542.
III. The fort being reseived, there was.no power to dedicate
a street within it. This was a military post, and under the
control of the War Department. By the act of Congress of the
3d of March, 1819, (3 Statutes at Large, 520,) the Secretary had
power to sell a imilitary site, become useless for military purposes, and give a deed in fee; But the act does not authorize
the Secretary to lay out a road phrough a fort reserved from
sale. It does not authorize him to encumber it, when retainied
as useful for military purposes, or to divert it from those purp6ses.. It must be condemni-i as useless -for military purposes

190

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Chicago.

before it can be sold. Here is executive responsibility; and
when upon that responsibility the site is retained, and not sold,'
there can be no conveyance. None is authorized. But if that
were otherwise, before any sale he ordered the fort, block-'
house,.powder-magazine, mess-hall, shops, and other necessary
buildings,- with the land where they stood, to be reserved.
The subordinate had no authority to come with his sales within the line of reservation. It is to be presumed that he
conformed to his instructions, in the absence of proof to the
contrary. It is, indeed, admitted that the fort was reserved
from sale to the line of reservation.
IV. The State of Illinois has no power to remove the buildings of the United States within he fort, or to make a highway there. The site of Fort Dearborn, in the judgment of the
Executive, is wanted as a military post. The reservation is
conclusive on this point. If private property, it could be taken
under the Constitution, upon making compensation, and applied
to this use. But the United States already own the land, and
have applied it to this use. The road having never been
opened, the State cannot now condemn the land to any other
public use than that to which it is applied by the government,
thereby causing an interference or collision. A State cannot
open a convenient highway through a powder-magazine, or
into the entrenchments of a fort, which exist by order of a
government- supreme within its sphere.
If, then, the city has no jurisdiction within the'limits of Fort
Dearborn; or if this street was never dedicated to the public
by the Secretary of War, or his subordinate; or if neither had
authority to dedicate, it ; or if the State of Illinois has uo
authority to open a road in this fort in either case, the injunction must be sustained, to restrain thd city from demolishing
the buildings of the fort to open a road there; and corresponding answers must be given to the questions submitted by the
court below.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case .comes before us on a certificate of a division of
opinion between the judges of the .Circuit Court in the- District
of Illinois.
A preliminary question has arisen as to our jurisdiction,
which first deserves attention.
The proceedings in the court below Nere a bill, filed on the
19th of April, 1845, by the United States against the city of
Chicago, to obtain an injunction not to lay out certain streets
through land belonging to the United States, which the city
was preparing to open.

JANUARY TERM, 1849.

191

United States v. Chicago.

Before the return day a temporary injunction was issued,
and when the term arrived, a motion was made to continue
that injunction till the merits of the bill were decided. No
answer had been put in to the merits, but a hearing was had on
affidavits as to the motion, and in that hearing the division of
opinion occurred which is now before us.
Two leading objections have been suggested to our jurisdiction over the matter. , One is, that the division arose, not in a
hearing of the merits, but of a preliminary motion, resting in
the discretion of the court; and the other is, that several
questions' are certified, covering the whole case rather than a
single point.
, In respect to the first objection, we do not propose to decide
whether the grant of a preliminary and temporary injunction is
a matter of disQretion merely, rather than of right. Because,
whichever it may be, the questions of division pre.sented here
are not those on matters of mere discretion in the court below,
but involve the right of the United States in the land proposed
to be laid. out as a street by the city. The adjudged cases,
where a certificate has not been sustained on account of some
discretion connected with the subject, are chiefly those where
the question presented involved merely a matter of discretion,
rather than arising in the consideration of a motion or point,
which was one of discretion. (Smith v. Vaughan, 10 Peters;
366; Packer v. Nixon, 10 Peters, 411.) It must be obvious,
that, in- deciding a mat*ter of discretion, a point may arise
whith is one of right and very material.. Other cases not
suftained were decided on the ground that they occurred after
the merits of the cause were decided, and in proceedings
subsequent thereto, whether discretionary or not. (Bank of
United States v. Green, 6 Peters, 28.; United States v. Daniel,
6 Wheat. 548; Devereaux v. Mart, 12 Wheat. 212; 5 Cranch,
11, 187; 4 Wash. G. C. 333.) The act of Congress seems to
rcach only matter arizang in the progress of the cause, and not
a 'terwards, because the proviso is, "1that nothing herein contained shall prevent the cause from proceeding," &c., and
hence implies it must be in the progress of the cause. See
Act of Congress, April 29th, 1802, 2 Stat. at Large, 159, 160;
6 Wheat. 548. But the present question, occuning before',a
final decision, comes expressly within the words of the law,
"that whenever any question shall occur before a Circuit Court,
upon which the opinions of the judges shall be opposed, the
point of disagreement shall be certified, &c. (2 Stat. at Large,
159.) And this provision, manifcstly, is broad enough to cover
any material question of right thus arising, whether the subject
on hearing was one of discretion or of right.

192

SUPREME COURT,
United States v. Chicago.

The second ground of objection, that these questions are
several in- number, and so material as to decide the whole cause.
might prevail, if they had not arisen at one time, at one stage
in the cause, and involved little beyond one point. Because,
if they are several in number and apply to different stages of
the trial, and relate to independent points, they are generally
-not proper. United States v. Baily, 9 Peters, 267; Nesmith
v. Sheldon, 6 How. 43; White v. Turk 12 Peters, 238;
.United States v: Stone, 14 Peters, 524; Saunders v. Gould, 4
Peters, 392; Grant v: Raynond, 6 Peters, 218.
. That these three questions require an opinion virtually on
,only one point, namely, the right of the United States to the
place proposed to be opened as a street, is manifest, when we
see that the decision of this one way disposes of them all, and
of the whole case. And the principle embrac-iin- t.. other
branch of this objection, to acting on several points which dispose, of the whole'case, is, not -that the whole case may not
properly be disposed of by-our decision on what is certified,
-but that the decision must in substance be, not on several
questions arising in various stages of th cause, and some of
them anticipated and presented, so as to cover the whole case.
Leland v. Wilkipson, 10 Peters, 294.
There* has justly been a leaning in this court to decline
jurisdiction in cases of decisions below where it is doubtful;
because the power vested here in such cases, -it is believed,
was meant to be much more restricted than is often practised,
and is in the most favorable view rather an anomaly. But by
considering questions, if certified here, only when real divisIons of opinion occur on them, and at one and the same time,
no danger exists of extending this branch of our jurisdiction
be-ond what Congress intended. On. the contrary, it is divisions of opinion pro forma, and from courtesy to counsel,,and on
a variety of points, and at times, some not then having actually arisen, but being anticipated, which appear-to transcend
the original design of vesting such a power here.
We have, therefore, for several years, declined to consider a
certificate of such a variety of points so arising. (See cases
before cited.) . And although an indulgence has sometimes
been. given to certificates, where, in important cases, a division was certified pro forma (Jones v. Van Zandt, 5 How. 224),
yet we do not feel justified in repeating it.
To proceed to a consideration of the principal matter involved in these questions, it will be necessary first to advert briefly
to some of the admitted facts in the case.
The United States became the owners of the land occupied.
by Fort Dearborn, near Chicago, in the State of Illinois; under

JANUARfY

TERM, 1849.

193

United States v. -Chicago.

the original cession of the Northwest Territory. It was occasionally a station for troops -from 1804 to 1824, whe. the
whole fractional quarter-section on which the fort stood was
reserved -by the'General Land Office for military purposes, on
the application of the Secretary of War. See Wilcox. v.
Jackson, 13 Peters, 502. In that case, which is better known
as thd Bdaubean- claim, this court decided that this was a legal
approlifiation of that quarter-section of land to a public purpose,
and exempted it from the rules as to the mass of public lands
and their usual liabilities..
From that time till A. D. 1839 it was occasionally occupied
as a fort by the. United States, and a light-house was erected
on it under the authority of Congress, when the Secretary of
War, t.hinking that a portion of the same might be sold without injury to the public interests, proceeded, with the approbation of the President, to make such a sale, under the act of
(Congress of March 3d, 1819. (3'Stat. at Large, 520.)
He did this by an agent, who first made a plan of the whole
quarter-section,* calling it "Fort Dearborn addition to Chicago," and laying it dowhi in lots; without exhibiting on it .any
buildings or reservations. But he did not sell the whole, the
government not then concluding to part with the fort, or land
and buildings immediately contiguous. On that plan certain
streets were also laid down running into the whole quaiter-section. The sales, however, being made of only the lots and land,
outside of what was reserved, the United States allowed the?
proposed streets only so far as there laid dcwn to be opened
by the city of Chicago, and used by the adjoining owners, in
conformity to the plan. And when the city undertook to open.
the streets within the line of reservation, and where no salesof land hd -been made, and where opening them would pros-trate some of the. public buildings, and materially injure andimpair the public uses of the station, the United States applied
for the injunction before named.,
On the motion to continue the temporary injunction till the
bill was answered and heard, the judges being opposed in
opinion on the right- of the city to open streets on the public
land of the United States situated like this, the three questionscertified were in form: "1st. Whether the corporate powers of the city of Chicago,
have a right to open the streets through that part of the'
ground laid out in lots and streets, but not sold by the government.
,, 2d. Whether the corporate powers of the city are iot limited
to that part of the plat which, by sale of the government, has
becomd private property.

194

SUPREME

COURT.

United States v. Chicagoo.

"3d. Whether the streets laid out and dedicate-1 to public use
by Birchard were not, by hi' surveying the land into lots and
streets, making and recording a map or plat thereof, did not
convey -the legal estate in the streets to the city of Chicago,
and therebk made the ground embraced by said streets ' private
property,' so as to authorize said city of Ch'icago to keep said
streets open."
.But, as -has been explained, the whole of them in substance
depend upon "the extent and character of the rights of the
United States in the place where the new streetswere proposed
to be opened. What, then, were those rights? 1st. The place
was where the title of the government had never been parted
with, after the original cession. 2d. It. was where the land
had been, appropriated and legally set apart for a special 'public
use; 3d. It was where the opening of these streets would
essentiall'y impair, if not destroy, that public use. 4th. Itwas
where streets had never been opened and used, or actually
dedicated in that way to purchasers of land there, or to" the
community in that neighbourhood. 5th. It was where the city
charter, by its act of incorporation, did not extend, as the
charter expressly excepted from its' limits " the southwest
fractional quarter of section ten, occupied as a military post, till
the same shall become private property."
Now, though this court possesses a strong disposition to
sustain, the rights of the States, and local authorities claiming
under them, wrhen clearly not ceded; or when clearly reserved'
yet it is equally our duty to support the general government in
the exercise of all which is plainly granted to it and is necessary for the efficient discharge of the great powers intrusted
to it by the people and the States. The erection of -forts belongs to one of those powers, -and 'the -building and employment of light-houses belongs fo another.
Under the circumstances of 'this case just recited, then, very
clear facts or principles must exist, 'which impair the rights of
the United States, before streets can be opened upon their soil,
when situated, reserved, and used as this is.
It is not questioned that land within a State purchased by
the Unite& States as a mere proprietor, and not reserved or
appropriated to any special purpose, may be liable to condemnation for streets or highways, like the land of other proprietors, under the rights of eminent domain.
-But that was not the condition of this quarter-section, being
a part of the land originally ceded to the United States as
the Northwest Territory, and afterwards specially set apart
for their 'use for military purposes. Here the opening of these
streets would, also, injure, if not destroy, the great objects of

JANUARY

TERM, 1849.

195

11nited States r. Chicago.

the fieservation. Nor was any compensation proposed or made,
as in other cases, for condemning this land and damaging
the buildings thereon. , It seems, too,.that, though land purchased within a State fox ordinary purposes by the general
government must yield to the local public demands, yet land,
when held like this, at first by an original cession to that
government, and afterwards appropriated for a "pecific public
object, cannot easily be shown liable to be taken away for an
ordinary local object, though public, and especially one under
another government and by mere implication. (United States
v. Ames, 1 Woodb. & Min. 88.)
It must be for a public object, clearly superior or paramount,
or to which preference is expressly given by law or the Constitution, in order to make the right clear to seize and condemn
land so situated. West River Bridge v. Dix, 6 Howard- 543,
544, and cases there cited; 4 Gill & Johns. 108, 150.
But the correctness of this proposition, being open to some
debate, is not further explained, nor is it decided here, because
not necessary to a disposition of the case.
On other grounds, the idea seems entirely untenable which
is entertained by the city and presented in one of the questions,
that, because streets had been laid .down on the plan by the
agent, parts of which extended into the land not sold, those
parts had, by this alone, become dedicated as highways, and
the United States had become estopped to object....
Persons who looked only at this plan, and did not know
that all of the quarter-section was not then to be sold, might
be misled in their opinion or expectation how far some of the
streets might extend. And if becoming purchasers, such persons might have given something more, under an impression
that their lots were on a street which would be longer and
more important.
But the bill avers, that the agent, at the time of the sale,
gave notice that the lots witbin the line of reservation were
not to be sold. How, then, could a right to open streets there
pass, or purchasers be misled ? The streets could not pass
as an appurtenant to the side lots there; because they were
not sold. The streets did not pass by any deed of them, or of
any easement or servitude in them, as none was made. There
had been, also,- no condemnation of them for public ways.
It is said, however, and justly, that land may be dedicated by
the owner to highways, and without deed or much formality.
Thus, if one allows his land long to be occupied by the public
as a; highway, such a dedication may.be presumed. M Connel -v. The Trustees of Lexington, 12 Wheat."582. So if the
actual user has not been long, but clearly acquiesced in. Jarvis

196

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Chicago.

v. Dean, 3 Bingham, 447; 1 Camp. 262; City or Cincinnati
v. White, 6 Pet. 431. S6 if one makes a map of land proposed
to be sold, with streets contiguous and for the accommodation
of side owners, and sells accordingly, it may generally be presumed that he thus dedicates th6 land contiguous for the
streets. See Matter of Thirty-second Street, 19 Wend. 128;
WyAaan v. Mayor of New York, 11 Wend. 486; Lewis Street,
2 Wend. 473; 8 Wend. 85. And certainly, if he allows thenm
afterwards to be so occupied. 6 Pet. 431.
But here, as before shown, no such occupation had been allowed within the reserved line, nor' any such sale made there
of the contiguous lots. On the contrary, all the streets so laid
down on the plan, where the lots contiguous were sold, have
been allowed to be opened without opposition by the United
States. And it is entirely unsupported by principle or precedent, that an agent, merely by protracting on the plan those
streets into the reserved line and amidst lands not sold, nor
meant then to be sold, but expressly reserved, could deprive
the United States of its title to its real estate, and to its important public works. ,Nor, under such 'circumstances, have the
purchasers of land elsewhere, or the city, any equitable ground
'of complaint, that the streets thus protracted on paper are not
openqd. Let the- opinion of this court, then, be certified in conformity
to these views, which will be, as applied to the questions
formally, in the negative as to the first and third, and in the
affirmative as to the second.
Mr. Justice CATRON, dissenting.
On a bill in equity being presented by the United States to
the district judge, he granted an injunction against the city
of Chicago, to restrain the corporation from running a street
through the public property attachef to a military post within
the corporate-limits. By the act of February Ist, 1807, injundtions granted by district judges in vacation only remain in
force until the next term of the Circuit Court. Accordingly,
at the next ferm a motion was made to continue the injhnction
granted by the district judge, and the judges were opposed in
opinion whether an injunction should or should not be granted.
The entire matters of law and fact arising on the face of the
bill, and on affidavits and documents introduced by the defendant to resist the motion, were sent up to this court, covered
by three points, on. which the judges assume to have been
opposed. And the motion to renew the injunction is presented
to us, as it was to the Circuit Courf. And the, question is,
Have we any power to grant.the injunction? By the Constitu-"

JANUAkRY

TERM, 1849.

197

"United States v. Chicago.

tion, the judicial power is vested in the Supreme.Court, and such
inferior courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and
establish. In cases affecting public ministers and consuls of other countries, and in cases where States are the parties, this court
has original jurisdiction. In all other cases, the Constitution provides, the Supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction, both
as to law and fact, with such exceptions and under such regulations as the Congress shall make. That is to say, with ;uch, exceptions to the exercise of appellate jurisdiction as Congress shall
interpose ; as that no cause shall come up, unless the matter in
controversy exceeds the sum or value of two thousand dollars,
'nor shall a writ of error lie in a criminal cause, nor from a District Court, &c. " That the original jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court is limited to the two classes of cases above referred to
was held by this court in Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 174.
Is, then, the granting an injunction an exercise of original jurisdiction? It may be done out of court by the circuit judge;
and so an expired injunction may be renewed at any time by
him, the courts of equity being always open for such purpose
by our present rules. This bill and affidavits are placed before
us as they were before the Circuit Court, and for the same purpose, of founding an original motion on them, thereby to procure an order for the restraining writ to issue. We are asked
to take an original, incipient step, as the court below was, before any answer is filed, and before any thing could be adjudged
between the parties by the Circuit Court, so as to bind their
rights.
What is appellate jurisdiction in the sense of the Constitution? Our practice under the thirteenth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 has settled the meaning of the term. It is
to re6xamine, and to reverse or affirm, the judgment, sentence,
order, or decree of an inferior court, - to pass on that which has
been adjudged. Here, nothing was adjudged in the court below.
From the threatening nature of this precedent, it is deemed
improper to,pass over it unnoticed, as I have done in other
cases. If a division can be certified in this instance, so there
may be in every other where an injuncti6n is applied for in
open court, and the judges see proper to send us the cause,
for as to real divisions, they hardly exist at present. The
cases are sent here by agreement of counsel, with the assent
of the Circuit Court, usually without any examination below.
I, therefare, am of opinion, that we have no jurisdiction, and
that the-matter before us should-be dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the rec17*

198

SUPREME

COU RT.

Smith et al. v. Kernochen.

•ord of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Illinois, and on the points and questions on which the judges
of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which
were certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the act
of Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this
-

court,---- 1st. That the corporate powers of the city of Chicago

have no riglht to open the streets through that part of. the
ground laid out into lots and-streets, but not sold by the government.
d. That the corporate powers of the city are limited to that part of the plat which, by sale of the government,
has become private property. And 3d. That the streets laid
out and dedicated to public use.by Birchard, by his surveying
the land into lots and streets, and making and recording a map
or plat thereof, did not convey the legal estate in the streets to
the city of Chicago, and thereby make the ground- embraced
by said streets "private property," so as to authorize said city
of Chiu.go to keep said streets open. Whereupon, it is now
here ordered and decreedby this court, that it be so certified
to the said Circuit Court.

JENNET SMITH, CALVIN S. POWE, AID THOMAS A.
TIFFS IN ERROR, V. JosEPH KERNOCHEN.

PowE,

PLAIN-

When a mortgagor and mortgagee are citizens of the same State, and the mortgagee
assigns the mortgage to a citizen of another State for the purpose of throwing the
case into the-Cireuit Court, it is necessary, in order to dives; the court of jurisdiction, to bring.home to the assignee a knowledge of this motive and purpose. Till
then, he must be considered an innocent purchaser without notice.
if the assignment was only fictitious, then the suit would in factbe between two
citizens of the same State, over which the court would have no jurisdiction.
The question of jurisdiction, in such a case. should have been raised by a plea in
abatement. Upon the trial of the merits, it was too late.
A former suit in chancery between the original parties to the mortgage involving directly the validity of that instrument, in which suit a bill to foreclose was dismissed, upon the ground that the mortgage was void, was good evidence in an ejectment brought by the assignee claiming to recover by virtue of the same mortgage.
'The instruutent had been declared void by a court of competent jurisdiction, and
neither the parties nor their privies could recover upon it.
There is'no difference, upon this point, between a decree in chancery and a verdict
at law. Either constitutes a bar to a future action upon the instrument declared
to be void. The authorities upon this point examined.
The highest court of the State of Alabama having decided that the original mortgagee (an incorporated company) violated its charter in the transaction which led
to the mortgage, this court adopts its construction of a statute of that State.

THE Reporter finds the following statement of the case, prepared by Mr. Justice Nelson, and prefixed to the opinion of the
court.

