OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

STORTI v. MASSACHUSETTS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No.378.

Argued November 19, 20, 1901.-Decided December 2,1901.

The Federal Constitution neither grants nor forbids to the governor of a
State the right to stay the execution of a sentence of death.
The question whether, under a state statute a convicted party has a year in
which to file a motion for a new trial, and that therefore no sentence can
be executed on him until that time, is a question to be determined by the
courts of the State.
The treaty of February 26, 1871, between the United States and Italy only
requires equality of treatment, and that the same rights and privileges be
accorded to a citizen of Italy that are given to a citizen of the United
States under like circumstances, and there is nothing in the petition tending to show such lack of equality.
Section 761 of the Revised Statutes provides as to habeas corpus cases that
"the court or justice or judge shall proceed in a summary way to determine the facts of the case by hearing the testimony and arguments, and
thereupon to dispose of the party as law and justice require ;" and this
mandate is applicable to this court, whether exercising original or appellate jurisdiction.

ON May 23, 1901, the appellant filed in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Massachusetts his petition
in habeas corpus.
In that petition he stated that he was a citizen of Italy, and a
subject of its King; that he was detained by the respondent
under a warrant issued by the superior court of Suffolk County,
reciting a conviction of murder, and directing the warden to
inflict death by passing a current of electricity through him;
that the time fixed for the execution of the sentence was on
the week beginning April T, 1901 ; that on April 9, 1901, the
governor, with the advice of the council, issued a document
purporting to respite the execution of sentence, the respite to
expire on Saturday May 11, 1901; that on May 10, 1901, he
presented a petition for a writ of habeas co2pus to the said
Circuit Court, which petition was denied on M ay 11, 1901; that

STORTI v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Statement of the Case.

from such denial he forthwith claimed and was allowed an appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States, and that such
appeal was there pending and undetermined. The petition
further stated that on May 10, he filed in the superior court for
the county of Suffolk a motion for a new trial, in accordance
with the provisions of the Massachusetts statutes, which motion
was still pending and undetermined.
Upon these facts he asserted, first, that no law of Massachusetts provided for the punishment of a person sentenced to
death, where the week appointed by the court for the execution
had elapsed without execution and without any lawful action
by the governor in the way of pardon, commutation or respite,
and therefore that the detention by the warden was contrary
to the provisions of the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution; second, that for the same
reason the detention was contrary to the third article of the
treaty of February 26, 1871, between the United States of
America and His Majesty the King of Italy, 17 Stat. 845, and
contrary to section 2 of Article 6 of the Constitution of the
United States; third, that by section 28 of chapter 214 of the
Public Statutes of Massachusetts the court in which the trial
of an indictment is had may at the term of the trial, or within
one year thereafter, grant a new trial; that therefore execution
could not lawfully be done upon him until the expiration of a
year from the term at which he was convicted, to wit, in this
case before July 1, 1901, and that the execution of the sentence
before that date would deprive him of his life without due process of law, and would deny to him the equal protection of the
laws, contrary to the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment; fourth, that for the same reason the execution of the
sentence would be contrary to the third article of the treaty
between the United States and Italy; fifth, that the execution
of the sentence within the year would deprive him of his right
under the statutes of Massachusetts to move for a new trial
within the year, and of his right to be present at the decision
of such motion, which right was guaranteed to him by article 23
of the treaty between the United States and Italy, which reads
as follows: "The citizens of either party shall have free access

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

to the courts of justice, in order to maintain and defend their
own rights, without any other conditions, restrictions or taxes
than such as are imposed upon the natives. They shall, therefore, be free to employ, in defence of their rights, such advocates, solicitors, notaries, agents and factors as they may judge
proper, in all their trials at law; and such citizens or agents
shall have free opportunity to be present at the decisions and
sentences of the tribunals in all cases which may concern them,
and likewise at the taking of all examinations and evidences
which may be exhibited in the said trials;" sixth, that the
motion for a new trial which he had filed on May 10, not having been determined, execution could not lawfully be done upon
him until the decision of that motion, notwithstanding which
he had reason to apprehend that the respondent intended to
immediately, upon the determination of the appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States, cause execution to be done
upon him, which execution would deprive him of his rights under the Fourteenth Amendment and article 23 of the treaty;
seventh, that the respondent derives his authority to hold the
petitioner in custody solely by virtue of the provisions of chapter 326 of the Massachusetts Statutes of 1898, and that by them
no authority was given to him to retain the custody of the
petitioner after the expiration of the week appointed by the
court for the execution of the sentence, except through the lawful action of the governor in granting a respite, that no lawful
action had been taken by the governor in the matter, and that
therefore the petitioner was detained of his liberty contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment: and, eighth, that for the same
reason he was deprived of his liberty contrary to the Fourteenth
Amendment and the third article of the treaty between the
United States and Italy. The third article of the treaty between the United States and Italy, referred to in this petition,
is as follows:
"The citizens of each of the high contracting parties shall
receive, in the states and territories of the other, the most constant protection and security for their persons and property,
and shall enjoy in this respect the same rights and privileges

STORTI v. MASSACHUSEITS.
Opinion of the Court.

as are or shall be granted to the natives, on their submitting
themselves to the conditions imposed upon the natives."
On the presentation of this petition to the Circuit Court, that
court dismissed the same for want of jurisdiction, without prejudice to an application to the courts of the State. In re Storti,
109 Fed. Rep. 807. A certificate of this fact was signed by
the Circuit Judge, and from the order dismissing the petition
an appeal was taken to this court.
.Xr. G. PhiipTWardner and -Mr. William X Stockbridge for
appellant.
Hr. HMosea M Knowlton for appellee.
Goosh was on his brief.
MR.JuSTIcE BRFEW.

XrW.Arthur W. .De-

delivered the opinion of the court.

The grounds set forth in this petition
Federal court of the petitioner from the
are wholly without foundation, and the
numerous instances in which, as said by

for a discharge by the
custody of the warden
case is another of the
Mr. Chief Justice Ful-

ler, in Craemer v. Washington State, 168 U. S.124, 128:

"Applications for the writ have been made, and appeals
taken from refusals to grant it, quite destitute of meritorious
grounds, and operating only to delay the administration of
justice."
It is an attempt to substitute a writ of habeas cor2pus for a
writ of error, and to review the proceedings in a criminal case
iu the state court by such collateral attack rather than by direct
proceedings in error-something which this court has repeatedly said ought seldom to be done. See, among other cases,
Baker v. &rice, 169 U. S.284; Tinsley v. Anderson, 171 U. S.
101, 104, and cases cited in the opinion; 3fiarkuson v. Boucher,
175 U. S.184; .AXinnesota v. Brundage, 180 U. S.499.
Many of the allegations in the petition are general and obscure, and it is not easy to determine therefrom in what particular the petitioner considers the proceedings against him to be

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

in conflict with the Federal Constitution or the treaty with
Italy.
Some of the matters presented involve only the construction
of state statutes and should be determined by the courts of the
State, whose determination in respect thereto is binding upon
this court. It must be borne in mind that under section 763
of Rev. Stat. the jurisdiction of the Federal court to issue a
writ of habeas corpus is limited to "the case of any person alleged to be restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution, or of any law or treaty of the United States," and to
cases arising under the laws of nations.
With these considerations in mind we pass to notice more
particularly the matters set forth in the petition. It is stated
that the petitioner was sentenced to be put to death 'at a given
time; that be was not then put to death on account of a respite granted by the governor, and that such respite was unlawfully granted. Wherein the unlawfulness consisted is not stated,
and whether it were lawful or not is a matter dependent on
the laws of the State, and to be determined by its courts. The
Federal Constitution neither grants nor forbids to the governor
of a State the right to stay the execution of a sentence. So
also it is said that under the Massachusetts statutes the party
convicted has a year in which to file a motion for a new trial,
and, therefore, no sentence can be executed on him until that
time. Whether that be so or not is also a question depending
on the statutes of the State, and to be determined by its courts.
The State may see fit to postpone the execution of a capital
sentence for a year, or provide that it shall be carried into
effect more speedily, and what the State has provided in the
matter is for its courts to decide.
It is averred that the proceedings in the Massachusetts courts
are in conflict with the rights secured by the treaty between
Italy and the United States, but the articles of the treaty referred to only require equality of treatment and that the same
rights and privileges be acorded to a citizen of Italy that are
given to a citizen of the United States under like circumstances,
and there is nothing in the petition tending to show a lack of

STORTI v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

such equality of treatment. The petition, therefore, is plainly
without merit.
But the principal contention of counsel is that the petition
was dismissed by the Circuit Court for want of jurisdiction and
a certificate thereof given, and that under section 5 of the act
of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, the only question that
we can consider is one of jurisdiction, and the following cases
are referred to: -orner v. United States, 143 _U. S. 570; Chap_iell v. United States, 160 U. S. 499 ; Press Publishing Company v. .Monroe, 164 U. S. 105, and Huntington v. Laidley, 176
U. S. 668.
We do not question that rule as applied to ordinary suits and
actions, but section 761, Rev. Stat., provides as to habeas corpus
cases that "the court, or justice, or judge shall proceed in a
summary way to determine the facts of the case by hearing
the testimony and arguments, and thereupon to dispose of the
party as law and justice require." That mandate is applicable to this court, whether it is exercising its original or appellate jurisdiction. Proceedings in habeas corpus are to be disposed of in a summary way. The interests of both the public
and the petitioner require promptness; that if he is unlawfully
restrained of his liberty it may be given to him as speedily as
possible; that if not, all having anything to do with his restraint be advised thereof, and the mind of the public be put at
rest, and also that if further action is to be taken in the matter
it may be taken without delay. Especially is this true when
the habeas corpus proceedings are had in the courts of a jurisdiction different from that in pursuance of whose mandate he
is detained. This matter of promptness is not peculiar to these
cases in Federal courts, but is the general rule which obtains
wherever the common law is in force. It is one of those things
which give to such proceedings their special value, and is enforced by statutory provisions, both state and Federal. The
command of the section is "to dispose of the party as law and
justice require." All the freedom of equity procedure is thus
prescribed; and substantial justice, promptly administered, is
ever the rule in habeas corpus.
As the petition presented no case entitling the petitioner to

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

a discharge, as the grounds stated therein are absolutely frivolous, and as the result reached in the Circuit Court was in accordance with law and justice,
Te judgment is ajfrmed and it isfurther ordered that the
mandate issue at once.

PINNEY v. NELSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES,
CALI1?ORNIA.
No. 65. Submitted April 26, 1901.-Decided December 2,1901.
When a corporation is formed in one State, and by the express terms of its
charter it is created for doing business in another State, and business is
done in that State, it must be assumed that the charter contract was made
with reference to its laws; and the liability which those laws impose will
attend the transaction of such business.

THIS was an action to enforce a personal liability of stockholders. It was commenced in a justice's court of Los Angeles
city, Los Angeles County, California, on September 30, 1898, by
the defendant in error against the plaintiffs in error. It was
subsequently transferred to the superior court of the county,
where a trial was had on January 17, 1900, before the court
without a jury. A stipulation was signed as to the truth of
various averments in the complaint and answer, which concluded as follows:
"And it is stipulated that the only question in this case is as
to whether section 322 of the Civil Code of California is in violation of the provisions of the Constitution of the United States,
and if it is in violation of such provisions defendants are entitled
to judgment, but if said section is not in violation of said provisions, then plaintiff is entitled to judgment as prayed for in
his complaint."
Findings of fact were also made, among which were the following:

