OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Counsel for Parties.

treaty with Spain ceased to be foreign and became domestic
territory.
My brothers HARLAN, BREWER and PECKHAX concur in this
dissent. We think it clear on this record that plaintiffs were
entitled to recover and that the judgment should be reversed.

FOURTEEN

DIAMOND

RINGS,

EMIL J. PEPKE,

CLAIMANT v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 153. Argued December 17,18, 19 and 20,1900.-Decided December 2, 1901.

1. The ruling in DeLima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, reaffirmed and applied.
2. No distinction, so far as the question determined in that case is concerned, can be made between the Philippines and the Island of Porto
Rico, after the ratification of the treaty of peace between the United
States and Spain, April 11, 1899, and certainly not
(a) Because of the passage by the Senate alone, by a majority, but not
two thirds of a quorum, of a joint resolution in respect to the intention
of the Senate in the ratification;
(b) Or, because of the armed resistance of the native inhabitants, or of uncivilized tribes, in the Philippines, to the dominion of the United States;
(c) Or, because one of the justices who concurred in the judgment in De
Lima v. Bidwell, also concurred in the judgment in Dowres v. Bidwell,
182 U. S. 244.

The statement of the case will be found in the opinion of the
court. The case was argued December 17, 18, 19 and 20, 1900.
Goetze, Appellant, v. United States was heard at the same time.
Leave was granted in this case to Mi,. Alexander Porter Xorse
to file a brief on behalf of interested parties.
Xtr. Jverit Brown and .1'. Edward C. Perkins for appellant.

-Mr.Lawrence

armon for plaintiff in errror.

FOURTEEN DIAMOND RINGS v. UNITED STATES. 177
Opinion of the Court.

il. CharZes H. AldricA for plaintiff in error.
21. Attorney General for the United States.
M . CHIEF JusnI=E FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Emil J. Pepke, a citizen of the United States and of the State
of North Dakota, enlisted in the First Regiment of the North
Dakota United States Volunteer Infantry, and was assigned for
duty with his regiment in the island of Luzon, in the Philippine Islands, and continued in the military service of the
United States until the regiment was ordered to return, and,
on arriving at San Francisco, was discharged September 25,
1899.
He brought with him from Luzon fourteen diamond rings,
which he had there purchased, or acquired through a loan, subsequent to the ratification of the treaty of peace between the
United States and Spain, February 6, 1899, and the proclamation thereof by the President of the United States, April 11,
1899.
In May, 1900, in Chicago, these rings were seized by a customs officer as having been imported contrary to law, without
entry, or declaration, or payment of duties, and an information
was filed to enforce the forfeiture thereof.
To this Pepke filed a plea setting up the facts, and claiming
that the rings were not subject to customs duties; the plea was
held insufficient; forfeiture and sale were decreed; and this
writ of error was prosecuted.
The tariff act of July 24, 1897, 30 Stat. 151, in regulation of
commerce with foreign nations, levied duties "upon all articles
imported from foreign countries."
Were these rings, acquired by this soldier after the ratification of the treaty was proclaimed, when brought by him from
Luzon to California, on his return with his regiment to be discharged, imported from a foreign country ?
This question has already been answered in the negative, in
respect of Porto Rico, in De Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, and
unless the cases can be distinguished, which we are of opinion
they cannot be in this particular, that decision is controlling.
VOL. oLxxxm-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

The Philippines, like Porto Rico, became, by virtue of the
treaty, ceded conquered territory or territory ceded by way of
indemnity. The territory ceased to be situated as Castine was
when occupied by the British forces in the war of 1812, or as
Tampico was when occupied by the troops of the United States
during the Mexican war, "cases of temporary possession of territory by lawful and regular governments at war with the
country of which the territory so possessed was part." Thorington v. Smith, 8 Wall. 10. The Philippines were not simply
occupied but acquired, and having been granted and delivered
to the United States, by their former master, were no longer
under the sovereignty of any foreign nation.
In Cross v. Harrison,16 How. 164, the question was whether
goods imported from a foreign country into California after
the cession were subject to our tariff laws, and this court held
that they were.
In De Lima v. Bidwell the question was whether goods imported into New York from Porto Rico, after the cession, were
subject to duties imposed by the act of 1897 on "articles imported from foreign countries," and this court held that they
were not. That act regulated commerce with foreign nations,
and Porto Rico had ceased to be within that category; nor
could territory be foreign and domestic at the same time.
Among other things it was there said: "The theory that a
country remains foreign with respect to the tariff laws until
Congress has acted by embracing it within the customs union,
presupposes that a country may be domestic for one purpose and
foreign for another. It may undoubtedly become necessary for
the adequate administration of a domestic territory to pass a
special act providing the proper machinery and officers, as the
President would have no authority, except under the war power,
to administer it himself; but no act is necessary to make it
domestic territory if once it has been ceded to the United
States.

.

.

.

This theory also presupposes that territory

may be held indefinitely by the United States; that it may be
treated in every particular, except for tariff purposes, as domestic territory; that laws may be enacted and enforced by officers
of the United States sent there for that purpose; that insurrec-

FOURTEEN DIAMOND RINGS v. UNITED STATES. 179
Opinion of the Court.

tions may be suppressed, wars carried on, revenues collected,
taxes imposed; in short, that everything may be done which a
government can do within its own boundaries, and yet that the
territory may still remain a foreign country. That this state of
things may continue for years, for a century even, but that until
Congress enacts otherwise, it still remains a foreign country. To
hold that this can be done as matter of law we deem to be pure
judicial legislation. We find no warrant for it in the Constitution or in the powers conferred upon this court. It is true the
nonaction of Congress may occasion a temporary inconvenience;
but it does not follow that courts of justice are authorized to
remedy it by inverting the ordinary meaning of words."
No reason is perceived for any different ruling as to the
Philippines. By the third article of the treaty Spain ceded to
the United States "the archipelago known as the Philippine
Islands," and the United States agreed to pay to Spain the sum
of twenty million dollars within three months. The treaty was
ratified; Congress appropriated the money; the ratification was
proclaimed. The treaty-making power; the executive power;
the legislative power, concurred in the completion of the transaction.
The Philippines thereby ceased, in the language of the treaty,
"to be Spanish." Ceasing to be Spanish, they ceased to be
foreign country. They came under the complete and absolute
sovereignty and dominion of the United States, and so became
territory of the United States over which civil government could
be established. The result was the same although there was
no stipulation that the native inhabitants should be incorporated
into the body politic, and none securing to them the right to
choose their nationality. Their allegiance became due to the
United States and they became entitled to its protection.
But it is said that the case of the Philippines is to be distinguished from that of Porto Rico because on February 14, 1899,
after the ratification of the treaty, the Senate resolved, as given
in the margin,* that it was not intended to incorporate the
* 1Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That by the ratification of the
treaty of peace with Spain it is not intended to incorporate the inhabitants

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

inhabitants of the Philippines into citizenship of the United
States, nor to permanently annex those islands.
We need not consider the force and effect of a resolution of
this sort, if adopted by Congress, not like that of April 20, 1898,
in respect of Cuba, preliminary to the declaration of war, but
after title had passed by ratified cession. It is enough that
this was a joint resolution; that it was adopted by the Senate
by a vote of 26 to 22, not two thirds of a quorum: and that it
is absolutely without legal significance on the question before
us. The meaning of the treaty cannot be controlled by subsequent explanations of some of those who may have voted to
ratify it. What view the House might have taken as to the
intention of the Senate in ratifying the treaty we are not informed, nor is it material; and if any implication from the action referred to could properly be indulged, it would seem to
be that two thirds of a quorum of the Senate did not consent
to the ratification on the grounds indicated.
It is further contended that a distinction exists in that while
complete possession of Porto Rico was taken by the United
States, this was not so as to the Philippines, because of the armed
resistance of the native inhabitants to a greater or less extent.
We must decline to assume that the government wishes thus
to disparage the title of the United States, or to place itself in
the position of waging a war of conquest.
The sovereignty of Spain over the Philippines and possession
under claim of title had existed for a long series of years prior
to the war with the United States. The fact that there were
insurrections against her or that uncivilized tribes may have defied her will did not affect the validity of her title. She granted
the islands to the United States, and the grantee in accepting
them took nothing less than the whole grant.
of the Philippine Islands into citizenship of the United States, nor is it intended to permanently annex said islands as an integral part of the territory of the United States; but it is the intention of the United States to
establish on said islands a government suitable to the wants and conditions
of the inhabitants of said islands to prepare them for local self-government,
and in due time to make such disposition of said islands as will best promote the interests of the United States and the inhabitants of said islands."
Cong. Bec. 55th Cong. 3d Sess. vol. 32, p. 1847.

FOURTEEN DIAMOND RINGS v. UNITED STATES. 181
Opinion of the Court.

If those in insurrection against Spain continued in insurrection against the United States, the legal title and possession of
the latter remained unaffected.
We do not understand that it is claimed that in carrying on
the pending hostilities the government is seeking to subjugate
the people of a foreign country, but, on the contrary, that it is
preserving order and suppressing insurrection in territory of the
United States. It follows that the possession of the United
States is adequate possession under legal title, and this cannot
be asserted for one purpose and denied for another. We dismiss the suggested distinction as untenable.
But it is sought to detract from the weight of the ruling in
oelima v. Bidwell because one of the five justices concurring
in the judgment in that case concurred in the judgment in
Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244.
In De Lima v. Bidwell, Porto Rico was held not to be a foreign country after the cession, and that a prior act exclusively
applicable to foreign countries became inapplicable.
In Downes v. Bidwell, the conclusion of a majority of the
court was that an act of Congress levying duties on goods imported from Porto Rico into New York, not in conformity with
the provisions of the Constitution in respect to the imposition
of duties, imposts and excises, was valid. Four of the members
of the court dissented from and five concurred, though not on
the same grounds, in this conclusion. The justice who delivered
the opinion in Do Lima's case was one of the majority, and was
of opinion that although by the cession Porto Rico ceased to be
a foreign country, and became a territory of the United States
and domestic, yet that it was merely "appurtenant" territory,
and "not a part of the United States within the revenue clauses
of the Constitution."
This view placed the territory, though not foreign, outside of
the restrictions applicable to interstate commerce, and treated
the power of Congress, when affirmatively exercised over a territory, situated as supposed, as uncontrolled by the provisions
of the Constitution in respect of national taxation. The distinction was drawn between a special act in respect of the particular country, and a general and prior act only applicable to

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
MR. JUSTICE BBOWiN, concurring.

countries foreign to ours in every sense. The latter was obliged
to conform to the rule of uniformity, which was wholly disregarded in the former.
The ruling in the case of De Lima remained unaffected, and
controls that under consideration. And this is so notwithstanding four members of the majority in the De Lima case
were of opinion that Porto Rico did not become by the cession
subjected to the exercise of governmental power in the levy of
duties unrestricted by constitutional limitations.
Decree reversed and cause remanded with directions to quash
the information.
MR. Jusicn, BRowN, concurring:

I concur in the conclusion of the court in this case, and in
the reasons given therefor in the opinion of the Chief Justice.
The case is distinguishable from De Lima v. Bidwell, 182
U. S. 1, in but one particular, viz., the Senate resolution of
February 6, 1899. With regard to this, I would say that in
my view the case would not be essentially different if this resolution had been adopted by a unanimous vote of the Senate.
To be efficacious such resolution must be considered either
(1) as an amendment to the treaty, or (2) as a legislative act
qualifying or modifying the treaty. It is neither.
It cannot be regarded as part of the treaty, since it received
neither the approval of the President nor the consent of the
other contracting power. A treaty in its legal sense is defined
by Bouvier as "a compact made between two or more independent nations with a view to the public welfare," (2 Law
Dic. 1136,) and by Webster as "an agreement, league or contract between two or more nations or sovereigns, formally
signed by commissioners properly authorized, and solemnly
ratified by the sovereigns or the supreme power of each state."
In its essence it is a contract. It differs from an ordinary contract only in being an agreement between independent states
instead of private parties. -Fosterv NYeilson, 2 Pet. 253, 314;
HUead Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580. By the Constitution, (art. 2,
sec. 2,) the President "shall have power, by and with the ad-

FOURTEEN DIAMOND RINGS v. UNITED STATES. 183
MR.JUSTIcE BRowN, concurring.

vice and consent of the Senate, to make treaties, provided two
thirds of the Senators present concur." Obviously the treaty
must contain the whole contract between the parties, and the
power of the Senate is limited to a ratification of such terms
as have already been agreed upon between the President, acting for the United States, and the commissioners of the other
contracting power. The Senate has no right to ratify the treaty
and introduce new terms into it, which shall be obligatory upon
the other power, although it may refuse its ratification, or make
such ratification conditional upon the adoption of amendments
to the treaty. If, for instance, the treaty with Spain had contained a provision instating the inhabitants of the Philippines
as citizens of the United States, the Senate might have refused
to ratify it until this provision was stricken out. But it could
not, in my opinion, ratify the treaty and then adopt a resolution declaring it not to be its intention to admit the inhabitants
of the Philippine Islands to the privileges of citizenship of the
United States. Such resolution would be inoperative as an
amendment to the treaty, since it had not received the assent
of the President or the Spanish commissioners.
Allusion was made to this question in the .BewYork Indians
v. United States, 170 U. S. 1, 21, wherein it appeared that, when
a treaty with certain Indian tribes was laid before the Senate
for ratification, several articles were stricken out, several others
amended, a new article added, and a proviso adopted that the
treaty should have no force or effect whatever, until the amendment had been submitted to the tribes, and they had given their
free and voluntary assent thereto. This resolution, however,
was not found in the original or in the published copy of the
treaty, or in the proclamation of the President, which contained
the treaty without the amendments. With reference to this
the court observed: "The power to make treaties is vested by
the Constitution in the President and the Senate, and, while
this proviso was adopted by the Senate, there was no evidence
that it ever received the sanction or approval of the President.
It cannot be considered as a legislative act, since the power to
legislate is vested in the President, Senate and House of Representatives. There is something, too, which shocks the con-

OCTO3ER TERM, 1901.
MR.JUSTICE BRowx, concurring.

science in the idea that a treaty can be put forth as embodying
the terms of an arrangement with a foreign power or an Indian
tribe, a material provision of which is unknown to one of the
contracting parties, and is kept in the background to be used
by the other only when the exigencies of a particular case may
demand it. The proviso appears never to have been called to
the attention of the tribes, who would naturally assume that
the treaty embodied in the Presidential proclamation contained
all the terms of the arrangement."
In short, it seems to me entirely clear that this resolution
cannot be considered a part of the treaty.
I think it equally clear that it cannot be treated as a legislative act, though it may be conceded that under the decisions
of this court Congress has the power to disregard or modify a
treaty with a foreign state. This was not done.
The resolution in question was introduced as a joint resolution, but it never received the assent of the House of Representatives or the signature of the President. While a joint
resolution, when approved by the President, or, being disapproved, is passed by two thirds of each house, has the effect of
a law, (Const. art. 1, see. 7,) no such effect can be given to a
resolution of either house acting independently of the other.
Indeed, the above clause expressly requires concurrent action
upon a resolution "before the same shall take effect."
This question was considered by Mr. Attorney General Cushing in his opinion on certain Resolutions of Congress, 6 Ops.
Attys. Gen. 680, in which he held that while joint resolutions
of Congress are not distinguishable from bills, and have the
effect of law, separate resolutions of either house of Congress,
except in matters appertaining to their own parliamentary
rights, have no legal effect to constrain the action of the President or Heads of Departments. The whole subject is there
elaborately discussed.
In any view taken of this resolution it appears to me that it
can be considered only as expressing the individual views of
the Senators voting upon it.
I have no doubt the treaty might have provided, as did the
act of Congress annexing Hawaii, that the existing customs re-

ARKANSAS v. KANSAS & TEXAS COAL CO. &c. 185
Statement of the Case.

lations between the Spanish possessions ceded by the treaty
and the United States should remain unchanged until legislation had been had upon the subject; but in the absence of such
provision the case is clearly controlled by that of De Lima v.
Bidwell.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY, MR. JUSTICE SHrRAS, MR. JUSTICE WHITE

and MRi. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissented, for the reasons stated in
their opinions in .De Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, 200-220, in
Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S. 222, 236-243, and in .Downes
v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244, 287-3417.

ARKANSAS v. KANSAS AND TEXAS COAL COMPANY
AND SAN FRANCISCO RAILROAD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 42. Submitted October 23, 1901.-Decided December 2,1901.
The test of the right to remove a case from a state court into the Circuit
Court of the United States under section two of the act of March 3,
1887, as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, is that it must be a case
over which the Circuit Court might have exercised original jurisdiction
under section one of that act.
A case cannot be removed on the ground that it is one arising under the
Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States unless that appears by
plaintiff's statement of his own claim, and if it does not so appear, the
want of it cannot be supplied by any statement of the petition for removal or in the subsequent pleadings, or by taking judicial notice of
facts not relied on and regularly brought into controversy.
Although it appears from plaintiff's statement of his claim that it cannot
be maintained at all because inconsistent with the Constitution or laws
of the United States, it does not follow that the case arises under that
Constitution or those laws.

Tnrs was a bill filed in the circuit court of Sebastian County,
for the district of Greenwood, Arkansas, by "The State of Ar-

