OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

payment or transfer, even though the amount of such payment
or transfer was thereby withdrawn from the administration of
the bankrupt court and satisfaction in full was received by the
creditor, but that if such payment was only a partial discharge
of his debt, the creditor cannot prove, under the distribution
in bankruptcy, for the balance of his debt, unless he first surrenders to the trustee the amount of the partial payment.
The conclusion warranted by the words of the statute, interpreted in this light of our previous decisions, is that the questions certified to us by the Circuit Court of Appeals should be
answered in the negative.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE,
PEoH&m concurred in

MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

and MR.

JUSTICE

this dissent.

NATIONAL FOUNDRY AND PIPE WORKS v. OCONTO
WATER SUPPLY CO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.

No. 33. Argued and submitted MIarch 22, 1901.-Decided January

6, 1902.

The rights asserted by the claimants are embra'ced in three propositions,
stated in the opinion of the court. The first of these propositions does
not involve a Federal question, and is not reviewed in the opinion of the
court. The second and third are as follows: "2. A claim that in virtue
of the sale made in the mechanics' lien suit after the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the creditors' suit and the final entry and execution of the mandate, the Pipe Works became the owner of the Water
Works plant, entitled to the possession of the same, with a right, however, in the defendant, as a junior lien holder, to redeem by paying the
indebtedness due the Pipe Works; and, 3. An assertion that if the Pipe
Works had not become the owner of the Water Works plant in virtue of
the sale made as stated in the opinion of the court, that corporation, in
any event, in virtue of its asserted mechanics' lien, had been vested with
a paramount right as against the Water Supply Company, which it was
the duty of a court of equity to enforce by compelling payment by the
defendant," present Federal questions, which it is the duty of this court
to determine.

NAT. F'DRY &c. v. OCONTO WATER SUPPLY CO. 211
Statement of the Case.
It is elementary that if from the decree in a cause there be uncertainty as
to what was really decided, resort may be had to the pleadings and to
the opinion of the court, in order to throw light upon the subject.
Every claim of a Federal right asserted in this case is without merit, and
the court below did not err.
The Circuit Court simply declined, in drawing the decree, to construe the
opinions of the Circuit Court of Appeals, and deemed that it discharged
its duty by obeying the mandate to dismiss the bill for want of equity,
without adding ny provision which might be construed as adding to or
taking away from either of the parties to the record any right which had
been established in virtue of the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The validity of the title claimed by Andrews & Whitcomb to have resulted
from the sale to them in the mortgage foreclosure suit having been an
issue and decided in the creditors' suit, all other grounds supposed to
establish the invalidity of such title should have been presented in the
creditors' suit, and such as were not must be deemed to have been waived,
and were concluded and foreclosed by the judgment rendered in such
issue.

Iff January, 1890, the city of Oconto adopted an ordinance
authorizing the Oconto Water Company, its successors and
assigns, to construct and operate waterworks in said city.
Said Oconto Water Company is hereafter referred to as the
Water Company. The Water Company commenced the construction of its plant. On August 28, 1890, it contracted with
the plaintiff in error, the National Foundry and Pipe Works,
Limited-hereafter styled the Pipe Works-for a supply of
pipe to be used in said water plant, the pipe to be delivered at
intervals and to be paid for partly in cash and partly oncredit.
Whilst the pipe was being delivered and placed in position
the Water Company, by an instrument in writing, of date
September 13, 1890, agreed with a firm known as Andrews &
Whitcomb, whose members were domiciled in the State of
Maine, in substance as follows:
In consideration of cash advances, to aggregate $40,000, to
be made by said firm from time to time for the completion of
the waterworks, the Water Company was to execute its promissory notes for the amount of each advance. The Water Company agreed as to collateral security as follows:
"To make an immediate transfer, in trust, to said parties of
the first part (Andrews & Whitcomb), of the Oconto water-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

works franchise as issued to said Oconto Water Company, together with the entire one hundred thousand ($100,000.00) dollars of stock of said Oconto Water Company, and further
agrees to make an immediate issue of one hundred thousand
($100,000.00) dollars in the first mortgage bonds of the said
Oconto Water Company, the same to be secured by deed of
trust on the entire Oconto waterworks franchise and all of the
rights and privileges of said company in said waterwork franchise; said deed of trust to be made to some trust company to
be hereafter mutually agreed upon."
About contemporaneously with the execution of said agreement a formal mortgage was given to Andrews & Whitcomb by
the Water Company, upon "all the rights, privileges, immunities,
franchises and powers, of whatsoever name or nature, which
had been granted to it."
This mortgage was not at once placed on record, and moreover a considerable time elapsed before delivery was made to
Andrews & Whitcomb of the stock and bonds provided for in
the agreement previously referred to.
In the meanwhile all the pipe contracted for was delivered
and the same had been used in connection with the waterworks
plant. Although the Water Company was during this time
obtaining money from Andrews & Whitcomb, it failed to use
the money in payment for the pipe. In consequence the Pipe
Works on September 15, 1890, recorded a claim for a lien on
the plant of the Water Company. After the recording of this
lien, and on January 13, 1891, the mortgage in favor of Andrews & Whitcomb, which, as already stated, had been executed on or about September 13, 1890, was placed on record.
On January 30, 1891, the Pipe Works filed its bill in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Wisconsin to foreclose its asserted lien and to procure a sale
thereunder of the plant of the waterworks company and of the
interest of that company in certain real estate upon which the
company had constructed its pump and water wells, the legal
title to the real estate being in the city, but the company having taken possession, under an agreement by which it secured
the right to obtain a conveyance, from the city, upon compli-

NAT. F'DRY &c. v. OCONTO WATER SUPPLY CO. 219
Statement of the Case.

ance with certain conditions. To this bill the Water Company
was alone made defendant. The lien asserted was contested
by the defendant. This litigation will be hereafter referred
to as the mechanics' lien suit.
Andrews & Whitcomb having made the advances provided
in the contract of September 13, 1890, and additional advances
being required, they were made by Andrews & Whitcomb under contracts executed on March 13 and May 16, 1891, of tenor
like unto the September agreement, the collateral security provided under that contract being made liable for the new advances. No independent mortgage was executed.
The Water Company not having performed the stipulations
made in its contracts with Andrews & Whitcomb, on June 17,
1891, that firm commenced proceedings in a court of the State
of Wisconsin to foreclose an asserted lien which it claimed was
created upon the franchise and property by the mortgage and
contracts to which we have already referred. This litigation
will be hereafter referred to as the mortgage foreclosure suit.
To this suit the Water Company was alone made defendant.
On August 13, 1891, a personal judgment was entered for
$63,889.23 and costs, and a sale was decreed to enforce the lien
declared in the following clause of the conclusions of law of the
court:
" Third. In addition to such personal judgment, the plaintiffs
are entitled to a further judgment decreeing, adjudging and
declaring the amount thereof, together with the proper costs
for the enforcement of the same, a lien upon all of the property
shown by the complaint in this action and the proofs adduced
by the plaintiff herein in support thereof to have been sold, assigned, transferred and set over or pledged to the plaintiffs by
the defendant in trust and as collateral security for the repayment of the sums loaned and advanced the defendant by the
plaintiffs under the contracts set forth in the complaint."
Under this decree a sale was made at public auction to Andrews & Whitcomb of the rights, privileges, immunities, franchises and powers granted to the Water Company by the
ordinance of July 9, 1890, and the stock and bonds pledged as
aforesaid. The sale was confirmed by the court and possession

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

of the waterworks plant was taken by Andrews & Whitcomb.
At the offering a representative of the Pipe Works notified
those present that the Pipe Works claimed a paramount lien
upon the property proposed to be sold and that the purchaser
would take subject to its rights.
Pending the mechanics' lien suit and the sale and purchase
byAndrews & Whitcomb, the Pipe Works brought an action at
law against the Water Company in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, making
also defendants thereto Andrews & Whitcomb, sued as garnishees. A judgment for the amount due was obtained on January 2, 1892, as against the Water Company, but the action was
never prosecuted to a termination as against the garnishees.
On January 11, 1892, the Pipe Works filed in the Circuit
Court of the United States a creditors' bill, based upon its
judgment at law, and the return of execution thereon unsatisfied. This litigation will be hereafter referred to as the creditors' suit. The Water Company, Andrews & Whitcomb, an
alleged corporation styled the Oconto City Water Supply Company, to be hereafter referred to as the Water Supply Company, as well as various parties whom it was claimed were
liable as stockholders for unpaid subscriptions, and others, were
made defendants. It would seem that in the original bill the
Water Supply Company was averred to be a corporation and
a resident or citizen of Wisconsin, but Andrews & Whitcomb
denied such averment. Thereafter, in an amendment to the
creditors' bill, it was alleged that subsequently to the filing of
the bill the Water Supply Company had been organized, and
that it claimed to have derived, through Andrews & Whitcomb, title to the rights and property of the Water Company,
but that said claim was subordinate to the lien of the plaintiff. Whether at the time of this amendment the Water Supply Company had acquired the waterworks plant, or such
acquisition was made subsequent thereto, does not appear, nor
is it stated in the record that it was ever served with process.
A full statement of the grounds for the equitable relief asked
for in the creditors' bill is contained in the opinion in Andrews
v. .Yrational Foundry & Pipe Works, -Limited,reported in 76

NAT. F'DRY &c. v. OCONTO WATER SUPPLY CO. 221
Statement of the Case.

Fed. Rep. 167. It suffices here to say that the bill assailed the
validity of the mortgages to Andrews & Whitcomb and the
transfer of stock and bonds to them, and attacked their foreclosure sale, and asserted the liability, as stockholders, of Andrews & Whitcomb and others for unpaid subscriptions to the
stock of the Water Company. A receiver was asked to take
possession of and operate the waterworks plant, then in the
possession of Andrews & Whitcomb, and an injunction was
prayed to restrain Andrews & Whitcomb from holding, managing or interfering in any way with the rights, franchises,
plant, property, rents, profits, bonds and affairs in the hands of
said receiver, and from asserting any right, title or interest in
the property or the rents, issues and profits thereof until the
further order of the court.
The mechanics' lien suit culminated on October 3, 1892, in a
decree in favor of the Pipe Works, recognizing its mechanics'
lien for the amount of pipe unpaid for, and a sale was decreed
to satisfy such indebtedness. The conclusions of the Circuit
Court were supported by an elaborate opinion holding that,
under the laws of the State of Wisconsin, a lien existed which
it was the duty of a court of equity to enforce. 52 Fed. Rep.
43. From the decree thus rendered an appeal was prosecuted
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
On October 10, 1892, the Circuit Court, in the creditors' suit,
appointed a receiver and allowed a preliminary injunction. 52
Fed. Rep. 29. From the interlocutory decree granting an injunction an appeal was prosecuted to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
On November 7, 1893, the Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit (Woods, Circuit Judge, and Bunn and Baker, District
Judges, sitting) affirmed the decree of the court below in the
mechanics' lien suit, in which decree had been declared the
existence of the mechanics' lien asserted by the Pipe Works.
The court in a per ou.iam opinion adopted the reasons expressed by the lower court. i8 U. S. App. 380; 59 Fed. Rep.
19, 20.
On January 11, 1894, the Circuit Court of Appeals determined the appeal taken by Andrews & Whitcomb from the

OCTOBER TERI, 1901
Statement of the Case.

interlocutory order granting an injunction in the creditors'
suit. The lower court was reversed, the court holding, for the
reasons expressed in its opinion, that the contracts made between the Water Company and Andrews & Whitcomb were
not ultra vires or otherwise invalid, and that there had been
no legal justification for the allowance of an injunction. The
court said, however, (p. 472): "Whether or not, and to what
extent, the mortgage of the franchises covers the plant of the
company, need not now be considered." After the filing in the
Circuit Court of the mandate from the Circuit Court of Appeals
in such cause the Pipe Works amended its bill by setting up
the final decree it had obtained on October 3, 1892, in the mechanics' lien suit affirmed as above stated by the Circuit Court
of Appeals. Such lien it was averred was paramount to any
rights asserted by Andrews & Whitcomb or their privies. To
the bill and amendment Andrews & Whitcomb filed separate
and elaborate answers. Without going into detail, the answers
asserted the validity as mortgages of the instruments executed
by the Water Company in favor of Andrews & Whitcomb and
their operative force upon the property and franchises, denied
any liability of the members of said firm as stockholders, and
asserted that they were not bound by the decree in the mechanics' lien suit, because they were neither parties nor privies
to that action, and they further claimed that under the statutes
of Wisconsin no lien could arise in favor of one furnishing
materials or supplies in connection with waterworks, and that
the decision of the Federal court to the contrary was erroneous,
as the Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin had, since the
decision rendered by the Federal court, held that no mechanics'
lien could be created by such a transaction.
Upon these issues and similar issues joined upon certain interventions of creditors asserting mechanics' liens upon the
property of the Water Company, which it is unnecessary to refer to, a decree was entered on July 17, 1895, granting all the
relief demanded by the Pipe Works Company and the intervenors. 68 Fed. Rep. 1006.
The court held, first, that there was a mechanics' lien in favor
of the Pipe Works; that whilst it was true that, subsequent to

NAT. F'DRY &c. v. OCONTO WATER SUPPLY CO. 223
Statement of the Case.

its decision in the mechanics' lien suit, the Supreme Court of
Wisconsin had decided that a mechanics' lien could not arise,
on the plant of the waterworks, under the circumstances disclosed, the Federal court was not bound by such interpretation
of the state statute, and it adhered to its own previous conclusion to the contrary; second, that Andrews & Whitcomb were
in legal effect the owners of all or nearly all the stock and liable for the unpaid subscriptions thereon to the extent necessary
to pay the debts of the Water Company; third, that as stockholders said firm were bound by the decree in the mechanics'
lien suit, because, as stockholders, they were privies to the decree; fourth, that assuming the validity of the mortgage in
favor of Andrews & Whitcomb, yet as it was recorded subsequent to the time when the mechanics' lien in favor of the Pipe
Works became operative, the mortgage was subordinate to such
mechanics' lien; fifth, that the bonds issued by the Water Company and which were delivered to Andrews & Whitcomb and
a defendant trust company were void; and, sixth, that the
instruments executed in the name of the Water Company in
favor of Andrews & Whitcomb were made in good faith and
for a valuable consideration, and were not withheld from record
by the consent or procurement of Andrews & Whitcomb nor in
fraud of creditors.
An appeal was prosecuted by the city of Oconto, by Andrews
& Whitcomb, and also by the Water Supply Company, as the
successor in interest of Andrews & Whitcomb, by reason of
having acquired, pending the suit, the rights of the firm in the
matter in controversy. On this appeal, the Circuit Court of
Appeals-Woods and Showalter, Circuit Judges, and Seaman,
District Judge, sitting-first considered whether the alleged
mechanics' lien existed in favor of the Pipe Works. The court
declared that by the authority of the thing adjudged, resulting
from the decree in the mechanics' lien suit, the existence of such
a lien was established as between the Pipe Works and the Water
Company. Coming to consider whether the lien existed as between the Pipe Works and Andrews & Whitcomb and their
privies, the Water Supply Company, the court held that inasmuch as the Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin, inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

preting the statutes of Wisconsin, since the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the mechanics' lien suit, had held that
no mechanics' lien was authorized by such statutes against the
plant of the Water Company, the Federal court should follow
the construction of the Wisconsin statute announced by the
highest court of the State, even though in doing so it became
necessary to take a different view from that which the court
had previously announced. The Circuit Court of Appeals therefore decided that there was no mechanics' lien in favor of the
Pipe Works or any of the intervenors as against Andrews &
Whitcomb or the Water Supply Company.
Approaching next the consideration of the correctness of the
ruling of the Circuit Court, that Andrews & Whitcomb were
privies to the decree against the Water Company in favor of
the Pipe Works, because they were stockholders in the company, the court decided that whilst undoubtedly a stockholder
was a privy to actions against the corporation in which he was
a stockholder, when brought upon money demands asserted
against the corporation, yet, as Andrews & Whitcomb held the
stock of the Water Company, not as subscribing stockholders,
but as contract creditors of the Water Company, the principle
upheld by the lower court had been erroneously applied, and
therefore Andrews & Whitcomb were not privies to the decree
recognizing the mechanics' lien and were in no respect bound
thereby. In so far as it had been decided by the court below
that the mortgage to Andrews & Whitcomb was subordinate
to the mechanics' lien, because recorded subsequently to the
placing on record of the affidavit as to such lien, the court said
(46 U. S. App. 295): "The lien decrees out of the way all questions concerning the recording of that mortgage and the antecedent contracts disappear."
The grounds upon which the lower court held that Andrews
& Whitcomb were liable as stockholders to make payment of
unpaid subscriptions were reviewed and held to be unfounded.
The validity of their mortgage for the whole amount of their
debt and the paramount nature of its lien was recognized, and
the court held that it was unnecessary to determine whether
the mortgage bonds were valid, because as the mortgage for the

NAT. F'DRY &c. y. OCONTO WATER SUPPLY CO. 225
Statement of the Case.

debt to Andrews & Whitcomb, for which the bonds were merely
collateral, was recognized and enforced it became unnecessary
to consider that subject. In respect to the title of Andrews &
Whitcomb, the court for reason stated, said (46 U. S. App. 299):
"We are of the opinion that the mortgage of the franchise carried with it the water plant."
The decree of the lower court was reversed and the cause remanded with instructions to dismiss the bill. The opinion of
the court is reported in 46 U. S. App. 281, and 76 Fed. Rep. 166.
In an opinion reported in 46 U. S. App. 619, and '7 Fed.
Rep. 774, a petition for a rehearing was denied. Among other
things the court reiterated its previous ruling that the mortgage
to Andrews & Whitcomb of the franchise extended to the waterworks plant, and that Andrews & Whitcomb were not concluded
by the mechanics' liens decrees, and hence though purchasing
at public auction upon the sale under the foreclosure proceedings,
during the pendency of the mechanics' lien foreclosure suit the
firm was not, as to the latter proceeding, in the category of a
purchaser yendente lite, and the doctrine of lis endens did not
apply. In the course of the opinion the court said (46 U. S.
App. 624):
"The question whether the appellees, as judgment creditors
of the Oconto Water Company, have a right to redeem from the
sale made to Andrews & Whitcomb upon their foreclosure decree, to which the appellees were not parties, does not, in our
opinion, arise upon this record, and will not be prejudiced by
our decision."
And, taking notice of this court's own records, it is to be observed that, after the denial by the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Seventh Circuit of the petition for a rehearing in the creditors' suit, application was made to this court for a writ of certiorari, which was refused on April 26, 1897. 166 U. S. 721.
Subsequently in the Circuit Court of Appeals, on motion by
appellants "that mandate should direct that provision be made
in the decree for the conveyance to appellant Oconto Water
Supply Company of the legal title to the land holding the pump
station and wells of the waterworks plant," the court on May 18,
1897, overruled the motion with leave to the court below to
VOL. CLXXX1I-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1.901.
Statement of the Case.

make necessary and proper orders for the transmission of the
legal title to the property.
After receipt of the mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
the Circuit Court, on July 29, 1897, entered a decree consisting
of eight numbered clauses. The sixth, seventh and eighth embodied a decree against one Sturtevant, (against whom a decree
pro confesso had been entered,) holding him liable in the sum
of ninety-nine thousand dollars for unpaid subscriptions and
ordering payment of the sum due the pipe works and the intervening and unsecured creditors and the costs of the action. The
decree, so far as it affected the other defendants, is as follows:
"This cause came on to be reheard upon the record herein
and upon the mandates of the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit upon the appeals from the decree entered herein on the 17th day of July, 1895, taken by the
said defendants, S. D. Andrews, W. H. Whitcomb, Oconto
City Water Supply Company, and The City of Oconto, which
said mandates have heretofore been filed herein, and, after argument of counsel, upon consideration thereof, it was ordered,
adjudged and decreed as follows, to wit:
"First. That the decree of said court of July 17, 1895, do
stand as entered, except that as to said defendants, S. D. Andrews, W. H. Whitcomb, Oconto City Water Supply Company
and city of Oconto, the bill of complaint herein be, and the
same is hereby, dismissed for want of equity, with costs in
favor of said defendants, taxed at the sum of one thousand
eight hundred and twenty 3 dollars, except that the defendant Oconto City Water Supply Company is required to pay the
amount adjudged in said decree or judgment in favor of Albert E. Smith, receiver, being the sum of twenty-five hundred
dollars ($2500).
"Second. That said bill of complaint be, and the same is
hereby, dismissed as to the defendants Charles C. Garland,
F. H. Todd, Matt. S. Wheeler, A. J. Elkins and N. S. Todd
for want of service of process upon them, but without costs.
"Third. That a decree pro confesso having been heretofore
entered against the said defendants, Minneapolis Trust Company, Oconto National Bank and S. W. Ford, all of which said

NAT. F'DRY &c. v. OCONTO WATER SUPPLY CO. 227
Statement of the Case.

defendants were duly served with process or duly appeared
herein, the said bill be, and hereby is, dismissed as to said defendants, but without costs.
"Fourth. That the clerk of this court be, and he is hereby,
directed to restore to the defendants S. D. Andrews and W.
H. Whitcomb the possession of all the bonds secured by the
mortgage or trust deed of the Oconto Water Company dated
the Ist day of November, 1890, which were deposited with
said clerk by said Andrews and Whitcomb; that such restoration
by said clerk to said Andrews and Whitcomb is, and shall be,
without adjudging the validity or invalidity of the said bonds
in their hands or the issue of the same by said Oconto Water
Company.
"Fifth. That the legal title to the land upon which the
pumping station and wells of the water works plant are located,
which heretofore by deed dated the 31st day of January, A. D.
1894, was conveyed by the order of this court by the city of
Oconto to the said defendant, Oconto Water Company, the
description of which said land is more fully set out in said deed
as follows, to wit:

.

.

. be, and the same is hereby, passed

and transferred by virtue of the instruments of mortgage dated
September 13, 1890, and March 13, 1891, executed by said defendant, Oconto Water Company, to said defendants, S. D.
Andrews and W. H. Whitcomb, and of the sale in the proceedings to foreclose the same to the said defendant, Oconto City
Water Supply Company, as the assignee and successor in interest of the said defendants, S. D. Andrews and W. H. Whitcomb, and that the said defendant, Oconto Water Company,
and its receiver, Albert E. Smith, by separate instruments duly
witnessed and acknowledged so as to entitle the same to record, execute and deliver conveyances thereof to the defendant,
Oconto City Water Supply Company, but without prejudice
to any rights which said complainant or said R. D. Wood &
Company may have under their said mechanics' lien decrees or
otherwise to redeem from said instruments of mortgage or
either of them, or from the sale under the proceedings to foreclose the same."
Although the decree rendered in favor of the Pipe Works in

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

its mechanics' lien foreclosure suit authorized a sale of the
waterworks plant to enforce the lien found to exist, no sale
had taken place up to the time the creditors' suit was decided
by the Circuit Court, because of a restraining order preventing
such sale. When, however, the Circuit Court entered its decree in favor of complainant in the creditors' suit, the fifth clause
thereof was couched in the following language: "Fifth. The
complainant and R. D. Wood" (an intervening creditor claiming under an alleged mechanics' lien decree) "are authorized
to proceed to the enforcement and satisfaction of their respective liens in accordance with their several decrees." The right
thus recognized was suspended by the appeal which was taken
to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
When the mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the
Pipe Works creditors' suit came to the Circuit Court it would
seem some difficulty arose as to the form of the decree, and
in consequence the court filed a memorandum opinion which
we find printed in the brief of counsel for the plaintiff in error. The sixth clause of that memorandum, which indicates
the reasons by which the Circuit Court was led to the conclusion that in executing the mandate of the Circuit Court of
Appeals it was unnecessary to insert in the final decree of the
Circuit Court a positive inhibition against any further attempt
on the part of the Pipe Works to enforce, as against Andrews
& Whitcomb and the Water Supply Company, its alleged mechanics' lien, if it possessed any, is as follows:
"Sixth. The order of -March 5, 1894, restraining the marshal
from proceeding to sell under the mechanics' lien decree, was
superseded by the fifth clause of the decree of July 17, 1895.
There would seem to be no necessity for further order in respect thereto. If the contention of the complainant that the
mechanics' lien decree took precedence of subsequent mortgages was not disposed of by the Court of Appeals, it should
be placed in a position to be able to redeem from the sale under
the mortgages to Andrews & Whitcomb. If that contention
was disposed of by the Court of Appeals, a sale under the
mechanics' lien decree can do no harm to Andrews & Whitcomb or their successor in interest, beyond possibly creating

NAT. F'DRY &c. v. OCONTO WATER SUPPLY CO. 229
Statement of the Case.

a cloud upon their title. The court would not, however, permit this to be done if it was clear from the several opinions of
the Court of Appeals that the contention in that respect had
been determined.
"I cannot spell out fiom the opinions of that court that the
precise contention had been considered and determined, unless
it must be held to have been so determined by the fact of the
reversal of the decree of this court and the dismissal of the bill
for want of equity as against Andrews & Whitcomb and their
successor in interest."
After the entry in the creditors' suit of the final decree of
the Circuit Court, the Pipe Works directed the marshal to execute the order of sale contained in the decree of October 3,
1892, in the mechanics' lien suit. On August 23, 1897, in said
suit, sale was made to the Pipe Works of the waterworks plant
and all the right, title and interest of the Oconto Water Company in and to the premises upon which the same were located,
together with the franchise of maintaining and operating said
plant. A day or two afterwards the sale was confirmed by the
Circuit Court, and a deed was executed and delivered by the
marshal to the Pipe Works, who caused the same to be recorded.
On December 28, 1897, the Pipe Works commenced the
present action in a state court in Wisconsin, naming as sole
defendant the Oconto City Water Supply Company. The complaint contained averments as to the incorporation of the defendant, the sale and delivery of pipe by the plaintiff to the Oconto
Water Company, the decree of October 3, 1892, in the mechanics'
lien suit and the sale to and purchase by it in August, 1897,
under such decree. The making by the Water Company to
Andrews & Whitcomb of the alleged mortgages or pledges
heretofore referred to was next averred, as also the proceedings
instituted by Andrews & Whitcomb culminating in the foreclosure of said mortgages and the sale thereunder to Andrews &
Whitcomb, and the taking possession by virtue of such sale of
the plant and its transfer thereafter by Andrews & Whitcomb
to the defendant, the Water Supply Company. It was also
alleged that Andrews & Whitcomb, prior to the making of the
mortgages or pledges in question, had knowledge of the fact that

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.

Statement of the Case.

plaintiff had furnished to the Water Company pipe as aforesaid
for use in its plant, and that Andrews & Whitcomb, prior to
the commencement of their foreclosure suit, knew that plaintiff
had filed its claim for a mechanics' lien upon the plant of the
Water Company and had commenced proceedings for the enforcement of such lien. It was also averred that the Water
Supply Company, when it took possession of the plant, had
knowledge or notice that the pipe furnished had not been paid for
and that proceedings were pending to enforce a mechanics' lien
therefor. The specific averment was made that the title acquired by the Pipe Works under its mechanics' lien foreclosure
proceeding was prior to any lien upon or title to said plant then
or at any time held or acquired by the Water Supply Company.
The prayer for relief, as amended, was as follows:
"Wherefore said plaintiff demands judgment against said defendant for the value of said pipe and materials furnished to
said Oconto Water Company and for the amount of its said lien
against the property of said Oconto Water Company; that the
possession and use of said plant be given to it, and that said
defendant, its officers, servants and agents, may be perpetually
enjoined from occupying, possessing or using the same and any
of the pipe so furnished by said plaintiff and being a part of the
water plant or system now operated by it, or that said defendant, its officers, servants and agents, may be enjoined from occupying, possessing, or using said plant or any of the pipe so
furnished by said plaintiff for said plant, unless within such
reasonable time as said court may prescribe for that purpose
said defendant shall pay to said plaintiff the amount due to it
under its mechanics' lien decree, as hereinbefore set forth, and
that said defendant be ordered and required to pay the amount
of said plaintiff's judgment against said Oconto Water Company
and against said defendant herein in such manner as to this
court shall seem just and pursuant with its equitable powers and
in accordance with the practice in such cases, and said plaintiff
prays for such other, further or different relief as to the court
shall seem just and proper, and for the costs of this action."
In the answer filed on behalf of the Water Supply Company,
the averments of the complaint that the Pipe Works was the

NAT. FDRY &c. v. OCONTO WATER SUPPLY CO. 231
Counsel for Parties.
owner or holder of any right, title or interest in or to the said
waterworks plant or any pipe constituting a part of said plant,
was traversed. By leave of court an amendment was filed to
the answer, in which the defendant set up the plea of resjudicata arising from the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals in
the creditors' suit. The case was tried by the court without a
jury, special findings of fact werd made respecting the judgment in the creditors' suit, the conclusions of law being embodied in the following decree:
is adjudged that the plaintiff has not and never had any
CIt
lien on the waterworks plant and property on which it claims
such lien by its complaint in this action; that the defendant
holds and owns said plant and property by claim and title paramount to and free and clear of any claim or lien of the plaintiff; that the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief demanded in
the complaint, as amended or otherwise.
"It is further adjudged that this action be, and the same is
hereby, dismissed for want of equity, and that the defendant
do have and recover of and from the plaintiff the sum of sixtythree and -2 dollars, its costs and disbursements in this action."
On appeal, the Supreme Court of Wisconsin affirmed the
judgment of the trial court. 105 Wisconsin, 48. A writ of
error from this court was allowed by the Chief Justice of the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin. It was therein recited that in
this suit there " was drawn in question the validity and binding
effect of a title, right and privilege claimed by the said National
Foundry and Pipe Works, Limited, under authority exercised
under the United States, and decrees duly entered in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Wisconsin," and that "the decision of the said Supreme Court of
the State of Wisconsin was against the right and privilege specially set up by said National Foundry and Pipe Works, Limited, under said authority and decrees."
Mr. George H. .7oyes for plaintiff in error.
Ar. George G. Greene, for defendant in error, submitted on
his brief, on which was also Mr.Jerome R. Norta.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Mn. JUSTICE WIITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
In order to clearly present the simple issue arising on this
record for decision we have been obliged to make the foregoing lengthy statement of the facts which are involved in this
unnecessarily protracted litigation.
When the allegations of the complaint by which this action
was commenced are ultimately resolved, all the rights which
they assert are embraced within the following propositions:
1. A contention that the Water Supply Company, by virtue
of its acquisition from Andrews & Whitcomb, was a mere successor corporation of the original Water Company, and became
bound for all its indebtedness, including, of course, the debt due
the Pipe Works, and this irrespective of the existence of a mechanics' lien;
2. A claim that in virtue of the sale made in the mechanics'
lien suit after the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the
creditors' suit and the final entry and execution of the mandate,
the Pipe Works became the owner of the waterworks plant, entitled to the possession of the same, with a right, however, in
the defendant as a junior lienholder to redeem by paying the
indebtedness due the Pipe Works; and,
3. An assertion that if the Pipe Works had not become the
owner of the waterworks plant in virtue of the sale made as
just stated, that corporation, in any event, in virtue of its asserted mechanics' lien, had been vested with a paramount right
as against the Water Supply Company, which it was the duty
of a court of equity to enforce by compelling payment by the
defendant.
In effect, these questions were all concluded adversely to the
plaintiff in error by the court below, the rights embraced in the
first proposition were decided to be without merit because the
facts disclosed the Water Supply Company to be an independent corporation and not bound as a successor company for the
indebtedness of the original Water Company. As this proposition does not involve a Federal question, we may not review it.
Indeed, the finality of the decision below on the subject is

NAT. F'DRY &c. v. OCONTO WATER SUPPLY CO. 233
Opinion of the Court.

recognized by the plaintiff in error, since the assignment of
error made in this court seeks to raise no question on such
subject.
All the rights asserted by the plaintiff in error which are
embraced in the second and third propositions were decided
adversely below, on the ground that they were not open to
inquiry, because concluded by the presumption of the thing
adjudged, arising from the final decree in the creditors' suit.
And it is upon the asserted erroneous application by the court
below of the plea of resjudicatathat all the Federal questions
urged must, in effect, depend.
The proposition is that the court below denied due effect to
a decree of the Federal court, by maintaining the plea of res
judicata predicated on a decree of such court. This contention,
apparently, is not that due effect was denied to the decrees of
a Federal court, but that too great an effect was given. When,
however, the proposition is stripped of the seeming confusion
which arises from the form in which it is stated, it becomes clear
that, ultimately considered, it really involves the assertion that
the court below refused to give due effect to the decree of a
Federal court. This is so, because the proposition substantially
is that the state court, in maintaining the plea of r'es judcacs
resulting from the decree in the creditors' suit, denied the rights
which were vested in the Pipe Works by virtue of the decree
in the mechanics' lien suit. The argument in substance is therefore that as the rights under the mechanics' lien decree were
not impaired or destroyed by the decree in the creditors' suit,
the consequence of erroneously deciding that they were obliterated by the decree in the creditors' suit, was to refuse to give
due effect to the rights vested in the Water Company as a result
of the decree in its favor in the mechanics' lien suit.
As it is thus demonstrated that the determination whether
the court below correctly applied the plea of r'es judicatanecessitates our deciding whether due effect was given to the decree in the mechanics' lien suit, a Federal question is presented
which it is our duty to determine. Jacobs v. Marks, 182 U. S.
583, 587; Hancock National Bank v. .Farnum,176 U. S. 640,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

645; Pittsbu'g &c. Railway Co. v. Long Island Loan & Trust
Co., 172 U. S. 493, 507, and cases cited.
In order to correctly decide what was concluded by the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the creditors' suit and
the final decree entered in such cause, it must be ascertained
who were the parties to that cause, what were the issues therein
presented for adjudication and what was decided thereon. It
is elementary that if from the decree in a cause there be uncertainty as to what was really decided, resort may be had to the
pleadings and to the opinion of the court in order to throw
light upon the subject. Baker v. Cummings, 181 U. S. 117;
-Last Chance XMining Co. v. Tyler Xining Co., 157 U. S.
683, 688.
Conceding for the present that the face of the final decree in
the creditors' suit leaves uncertain exactly what was concluded,
we will resort to the means of elucidation just referred to, viz.,
the pleadings and opinions rendered, in order to ascertain who
were the opposing parties, what were the issues joined between
them and the matters finally determined in the cause. So doing,
it appears that the parties to the cause were the Pipe Works on
the one side and Andrews & Whitcomb and the Water Supply
Company and others on the opposing side. It also appears that
the following, among other controversies, were directly at issue
in the cause:
1. Had the Pipe Works, as to Andrews & Whitcomb and
their privies, a lien upon the plant and franchise of the waterworks, arising from the sale of the pipe, the recording of the
claim for a lien and the recognition of such lien in the decree
of the Circuit Court of the United States in the mechanics' lien
suit, and this although the plant and franchise had come into
the possession of Andrews & Whitcomb under the sale in their
mortgage foreclosure suit?
2. Was the mortgage referred to a valid instrument? and,
3. Was title vested in Andrews & Whitcomb to the waterworks plant and franchise by reason of the sale to them under
the decree in the mortgage foreclosure suit?
Between the parties we have named and upon the issues just
stated it is free from doubt that it was decided that Andrews

NAT. F'DRY &c. v. OCONTO WATER SUPPLY CO. 235
Opinion of the Court.

& Whitcomb were lawfully in possession in virtue of the sale
made in the mortgage foreclosure, and that under the law of
Wisconsin there was no lien in favor of the Pipe Works as
against Andrews & Whitcomb or their assigns upon the franchise and plant in question arising either from the law of that
State, the recording of the alleged lien or the decree rendered
in the mechanics' lien suit. It hence results that every claim
of a Federal right here asserted is without merit and that the
court below, in enforcing the principle of the thing adjudged,
did not err, and of course did not refuse to give due effect to
the mechanics' lien suit decree.
It is insisted, however, that although these conclusions may
be inevitable from a consideration together of the pleadings,
the opinions and the final decree in the creditors' suit, the contrary result is impelled if merely the final decree entered by
the Circuit Court upon the mandate of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is taken in view. The argument is that as the decree
is unambiguous it is the law of the case, and resort cannot be
had to other sources of information. In effect, the contention
comes to this, that although it may be patent that the issues
between the parties, as above stated, were determined, yet as
the decree entered by the Circuit Court failed to express such
conclusion, the parties are bound by the decree as entered, as
they did not avail themselves of a proper remedy, by mandamus or otherwise, to correct the frustration of the results of
the decisions of the Circuit Court of Appeals, which the argument necessarily assumes must have been brought about by the
decree made by the Circuit Court.
But the decree of the Circuit Court does not support the contention based upon it. That decree, in express terms, dismissed
the creditors' bill as to Andrews & Whitcomb and the Water
Supply Company, for want of equity, without any qualification
or reservation whatever. It in express terms passed the legal
title to the real estate upon which was located the pumping
station and wells of the Water Company to the Water Supply
Company, as the assignees of Andrews & Whitcomb, such
transfer of title being declared to be made by virtue of the
mortgage to Andrews & Whitcomb and the sale to them in

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

their mortgage forclosure suit. It is true that in the clause
making this transfer it was declared that it was" without prejudice to any right which said plaintiff . . . may have
under their mechanics' lien decree or otherwise to redeem from
said instruments of mortgage or either of them or from the
sale under the proceedings to foreclose the same." But this
was a mere reservation of the right to redeem, if any existed.
It left the Pipe Works in the position where, if its right had
not been foreclosed as the necessary consequence of the dismissal of the bill for want of equity, it would not be so foreclosed in consequence of the specific direction for the transfer
of the legal title to the property. In other words, the Circuit
Court, in complying with the positive directions of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, but refused to interpret specifically the scope
and effect of the mandate of the appellate court, and left that
mandate to operate in its own language. At best, the reservation, when considered in connection with the other portions of
the decree, can only have the effect of creating an uncertainty
as to what was intended, and this being the case, resort to the
proper sources of information, to which we have already alluded,
dispels the doubt and leaves the matter free from difficulty.
And this conclusion is equally made imperative by a consideration of the memorandum opinion of the Circuit Court-set out
in our statement of the case-relating to the drawing of the
proposed final decree. From that document it is made clear
that the Circuit Court simply declined, in drawing the decree,
to construe the opinions of the Circuit Court of Appeals, and
therefore deemed that it discharged its duty by obeying the
mandate to dismiss the bill for want of equity, without adding
any provision which might be construed as adding to or taking
away from either of the parties to the record any right which
had been established in virtue of the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals.
Another contention remaining to be considered is that even
though the court below correctly applied the principle of r'es
judicat, it yet, in granting affirmative relief, declined to give
due effect to the decree in the mechanics' lien suit. On this
subject the argument is that although as regards Andrews &

NAT. F'DRY &c. v. OCONTO WATER SUPPLY CO. 237.
Opinion of the Court.

Whitcomb and the Water Supply Company, it be recognized
that it had been conclusively determined that the Pipe Works
had no mechanics' lien whatever, yet as such lien was finally
decreed in the creditors' suit as against the water company,
because of the thing adjudged arising from the decree in the
mechanics' lien suit, therefore a right to redeem from the sale
to Andrews & Whitcomb existed, and such right was nullified
by the broad grant of affirmative relief made in this cause by
the court below. Whether the pleadings in the cause justified
a grant of affirmative relief, considered as a mere question of
practice, presents no Federal question. The claim that because
by the thing adjudged it is indisputable that the Pipe Works had
a lien against the water company, it therefore follows that there
is still a right to redeem as against Andrews & Whitcomb and
the Water Supply Company, even although it was established
by the effect of res judicata arising from the creditors' suit,
that the lien as to the parties named was inoperative and a
nullity, is but another form of asserting that the decree in the
creditors' suit was not resjudicatabetween the Pipe Works and
Andrews & Whitcomb and the Water Supply Company.
In conclusion, we need only remark that the observations
just made are equally applicable to the elaborate contention, in
the brief of counsel, that as the mechanics' lien suit was pending in a Federal court when Andrews & Whitcomb instituted
their foreclosure proceedings in the state court, the Federal
court had exclusive jurisdiction of the res, and the state court
was without power in the premises. The validity of the title
claimed by Andrews & Whitcomb to have resulted from the
sale to them in the mortgage foreclosure suit having been an
issue and decided in the creditors' suit, the contention now being noticed and all other grounds supposed to establish the
invalidity of such title should have been presented in the creditors' suit, and such as were not must be deemed to have been
waived, and were concluded and foreclosed by the judgment
rendered in such issue. Dowell v. Ap~legae, 152 U. S. 327, 343.
Aff"med.

