WILSON v. MERCHANTS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

121

Opinion of the Court. -

As the order of the Circuit Court of Appeals directing the
dismissal of the suit accomplishes a result that is appropriate
in view of the act of 1901, we need not consider the grounds
upon which that court proceeded, or any of the questions determined by it or by the Circuit Court, and
The judgment must be aftled without costs in this court, and
it is so ordered.

WILSON v. MERCHANTS' LOAN & TRUST CO. OF CHI-

CAGO.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 67. Argued October 29, 30,1901.-Decided December 2,1901.

An agreed statement of facts which is so defective as to present, in addition
to certain ultimate facts, other and evidential facts upon which a material
ultimate fact might have been but which was not agreed upon or found,
cannot be regarded as a substantial compliance with the requirements of
Rev. Stat. ยง 649 and of Rev. Stat. ยง 700.

THE statement of facts will be found in the opinion of the
court.
.r. Delevan A. Holmes for plaintiff in error. Xr. T. E.
7ason was on his brief.
XMr. John V. Jewett for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PEKHAM delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error brings this case here to review a judgment of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit, 98 Fed. Rep. 688, affirming a judgment of the
District Court of Illinois in favor of the defendant. The plaintiff in error is the receiver of the First National Bank of Helena,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Montana, and brought this action against the defendant to enforce an assessment of 100 per cent ordered by the Comptroller
of the Currency on all owners of shares in that bank. In his
declaration the plaintiff, after alleging the organization of the
bank, his appointment as receiver and the assessment by the
Comptroller, averred that "the Merchants' Loan and Trust
Company, a corporation, at some time between the first day of
December, 1894, and first day of June, 1895, (the exact date
being to plaintiff unknown,) purchased and became the owner
of 120 shares of the capital stock of said First National Bank
of Helena, Montana, of the par value of one hundred dollars
each, and continued to be and was at the time said bank suspended and ceased to do business the real owner of the same;
but in order to evade the responsibility imposed by law upon
the shareholders in said bank caused said shares to be placed
on the books of said bank in the name of P. C. Peterson, one
of its employ~s, in whose name said shares appeared on the
said books at the time of said failure. And the plaintiff avers
that the said Peterson was at the time said stock was issued to
him as aforesaid and at the time of the failure of said bank, a
person of small means and not responsible financially."
The plaintiff demanded judgment for the sum of $12,000,
being $100 on each share of the stock in the bank owned (as
alleged) by the defendant.
As one of several defences to the action, the defendant
pleaded that the plaintiff ought not to maintain his action "because it says that it did not, at any time between the first day
of December, 1894, and the first day of June, 1895, or at any
other time, purchase or become the owner of one hundred and
twenty shares of the capital stock of the said First National
Bank of Helena, Montana, or any share or shares of the capital stock of said bank, and of this the said defendant puts itself
upon the country," etc.
Under these pleadings the plaintiff, of course, had the burden
of proving ownership of the stock by the defendant.
The parties waived a trial by jury and entered into the following stipulation:
"It is hereby stipulated and agreed between the parties

WILSON v. MERCHANTS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

123

Opinion of the Court.

herein that trial by jury in this case be waived; that this cause
may be submitted to the Honorable Christian C. Kohlsaat,
judge of this court, upon the foregoing statement of facts, duly
signed by the attorneys of the parties respectively, and that
for the purpose of such trial the said statements of facts shall
be taken as absolutely true, and shall be taken and considered
as all the facts concerning the transactions therein referred to,
subject to any and all objections which might properly be urged
to the competency or materiality of any part thereof."
Upon the trial before the court, without a jury, the statement
of facts as agreed upon between the parties was put in evidence,
and such statement contained all the evidence in the case, which
was thereupon submitted to the court for its decision. The
court made no special findings of facfs but made a general finding of the issues for the defendant, embodied in a judgment
which was entered as follows:
"Now come the parties by their attorneys, and thereupon a
jury is waived by written stipulation, and this cause is submitted
to the court for trial, and the court having heard the evidence
and arguments of counsel, and being now fully advised, finds
the issues for the defendants, to which finding the plaintiff
excepts, and thereupon the plaintiff enters his motion for a new
trial, which is heard and overruled, to which ruling the plaintiff excepts. It is thereupon considered and adjudged by the
court that the defendants recover of the plaintiff their costs in
this behalf to be taxed and that execution issue therefor, to
which judgment the plaintiff then and there excepts."
The statement of facts agreed upon and filed in the court was
subsequently allowed as a bill of exceptions. There was no exception taken to any fact contained in this statement, nor in the
progress of the trial, nor was there any request to find other special facts. The only exception taken was to the general finding
of the court in favor of the defendant. From this agreed statement of facts it appears that on April 15, 1893, the defendant
loaned to one Ashby of Helena, Montana, $12,000, and took his
note in the usual form payable on August 16, 1893. As collateral security for the payment of the note at maturity, Ashby
signed in blank and delivered to the defendant a certificate rep-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

resenting 150 shares of the capital stock of the Helena National
Bank of Helena, Montana. The note taken for the loan was of
the kind usually termed a collateral note, and authorized the sale
of the collateral deposited as security therefor upon default in
the payment of the note. At the time of the loan Ashby was
president of the Helena National Bank. On July 26, 1893,
Ashby made a general assignment for the benefit of his creditors, and among the property assigned by him was the certificate for 150 shares of the capital stock of the Helena National
Bank, described by the assignor as then held by the Merchants'
Loan and Trust Company in pledge. About the date of the
assignment Ashby resigned the presidency of the Helena National Bank. In the summer of 1894 the Ashby note still
remained unpaid, and the certificate of stock remained in the
possession of the defendant, no transfer thereof being made
upon the books of the bank. Later in the year 1894: the parties in interest in Helena proposed to consolidate the Helena
National Bank with the First National Bank of Helena, and
the consent of a sufficient number of shareholders in the bank
was obtained before the defendant was asked to consent to the
transfer of the shares held by it in pledge, on the same terms
upon which the owners of shares in the Helena National Bank
had agreed to a consolidation of the two banks, by taking
shares in the First National Bank of Helena in exchange for
their shares in the Helena National Bank, at the rate of 80 per
cent of new shares in exchange for the old. In response to
such request the defendant sent the certificates for the 150
shares in the Helena National Bank to the president of that
bank. In exchange therefor certificates for 120 shares of stock
in the First National Bank of Helena were sent to the defendant, the shares being entered, at request of defendant, on
the books of the bank and in the certificates, in the name of
P. C. Peterson, an employ6 of the defendant. Subsequently,
the First National Bank of Helena went into the hands of a
receiver, who found the 120 shares standing on its books in the
name of Peterson. The receiver, after the assessment was
made, commenced this action against the defendant trust company, alleging that it was the real owner of the stock, and that

WILSON v. MERCHANTS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

125

Opinion of the Court.

it stood in the name of Peterson for the purpose of enabling
the defendant to evade liability as owner.
The note remains unpaid, although two small payments on
account have been made by the assignee of the maker since the
assignment.
It is part of the statement agreed upon that the original
shares of stock were placed in defendant's possession simply as
a pledge or collateral security for the payment* of the note
made by Ashby, and the certificates which have been substituted for them, as already mentioned, "have ever since been
and now are in the possession and control of the-defendant, and
are held by it in the same way and for the same purpose as the
certificates for one hundred and fifty shares of the capital stock
of the Helena National Bank were originally held, except as
the conditions may have been changed by the facts hereinbefore stated, but that neither the defendant nor the said Peterson ever took any part in the management of either of said
banks or participated in the administration of their affairs."
The "facts hereinbefore stated" consisted not only of those
which have been given above, but also of correspondence between the officers of defendant and the officers of the Helena
National Bank and the assignee of the pledgor Ashby, which
is set out in the agreed statement.
This statement has been referred to for the purpose of understanding the materiality of certain facts not found or agreed
upon, the failure to do which prevents our use of the statement
in the decision of the case. The contention of the plaintiff
herein is that the substitution of the original stock for that of
the First National Bank of Helena was made without the consent of the pledgor, and amounted to a conversion of the stock
and made the defendant, when it took the shares of stock in
the consolidated bank, the owner thereof, and rendered it liable to assessment as such owner, notwithstanding the fact that
the stock was entered and remained on the books of the bank
and in the certificate issued by the bank, in the name of Peterson, as owner.
Aside from the question whether the defendant had or had
not the right as pledgee of the stock in the Helena National

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Bank to cause the same to be transferred into shares of the
other bank after a majority of the stockholders had consented
to a consolidation, it would seem that if Ashby, the owner, had
himself consented to the arrangement, or subsequently ratified
it, the substituted stock would remain under the same terms
and conditions as attached to the original stock, and it would
be simply a pledge to and not an ownership of stock by the
defendant, and as the stock never stood in the name of the defendant, the case would be governed by that of Pauly v. State
Loan & T5,ust Company, 165 U. S. 606, and the cases there
cited, and Jackson v. Emmons, 176 U. S. 532.
The difficulty we meet, which prevents the decision of the
case from resting on the statement of facts, lies in the omission
therefrom of any finding or agreement upon the question of
fact whether the pledgor had or had not consented to the
change, and instead of any such finding or agreement there is
placed in the statement certain correspondence from which,
together with other facts stated, an inference of consent or
perhaps ratification might be drawn, but is not found or agreed
upon, thus leaving the ultimate fact of consent or non-consent
a matter of inference, and an inference of fact and not of law,
and this is a material fact arising upon the statement as agreed
upon.
Neither is there any finding upon the question of the consent
of the assignee of the pledgor, to the substitution of the stock,
or upon the question of ratification by him. There are facts
from which the consent or ratification might be inferred, or
the contrary, but there is no finding of any ultimate fact regarding the matter.
The result of the decisions under the statutes providing for
a waiver of trial by jury, and the proceedings on a trial by the
court, Rev. Stat. ยง 649, and Rev. Stat. ยง 700, is that when there
are special findings they must be findings of what are termed
ultimate facts, and not the evidence from which such facts might
be but are not found. If, therefore, an agreed statement contains certain facts of that nature, and in addition thereto and
as part of such statement there are other facts of an evidential
character only, from which a material ultimate fact might be

WILSON v. MERCHANTS' LOAN & TRUST CO.

127

Opinion of the Court.

inferred, but which is not agreed upon or found, we cannot find
it, and we cannot decide the case on the ultimate facts agreed
upon without reference to such other facts. In such case we
must be limited to the general finding by the court. We are so
limited because the agreed statement is not a compliance with
the statute.
As to what is necessary in special findings or in an agreed statement of facts, the authorities are decisive. It is held that upon
a trial by the court, if special findings are made, they must be
not a mere report of the evidence, but a finding of those ultimate facts on which the law must determine the rights of the
parties, and if the finding of facts be general, only such rulings of the court, in the progress of the trial, can be reviewed as
are presented by a bill of exceptions, and in such case the bill
cannot be used to bring up the whole testimony for review
any more than in a trial by jury. fforris v. Jackson, 9 Wall.
125.
In this case the finding is general, and, strictly construing
the statute, the only questions which would be reviewable would
be those questions which arose during the progress of the trial,
and which were presented by bill of exceptions. It has, however, been held that where there was an agreed statement of
facts submitted to the trial court and upon which its judgment
was founded, such agreed statement would be taken as an equivalent of a special finding of facts. Supervisors v. Zennicott, 103
U. S. 554. But as such equivalent, there must of course be a
finding or an agreement upon all ultimate facts and the statement must not merely present evidence from which such facts or
any of them may be inferred.
An exception to a general finding of the court on a trial without a jury brings up no question for review. The finding is
conclusive, and there must be exceptions taken to the rulings
of the court during the trial in order to permit a review thereof. Insurance Company v. Folsom, 18 Wall. 237.
In -lartinton v. Fairbanks,112 U. S. 670, which was a trial
before the judge without the intervention of a jury and where
there was only a general finding of facts and a judgment for
the plaintiff below, the court decided that an exception to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

general finding of the court for the plaintiff upon the evidence
adduced at the trial presented no question of law which the
court could review. In that case there was no agreed statement of facts.
Here, although there is a general finding in favor of the defendant, yet there is a statement of facts which contains certain
ultimate facts together with certain other facts evidential in
their nature from which an important and ultimate fact might
be inferred, but in regard to which there is no agreement or
finding whatever. In such case it would not be proper to regard the agreed statement as a sufficient finding of ultimate
facts within the statute.
In Jaimond v. Terrebonne Parish, 132 U. S. 192, it was

said that the agreed statement of facts by the parties or a finding of facts by the Circuit Court must state the ultimate facts
of the case, presenting questions of law only, and not be a recital of evidence or of circumstances which may tend to prove
the ultimate facts or from which they may be inferred.
In Glenn v. Fant, 134 U. S. 398, there was a stipulation that
the case should be heard upon an agreed statement of facts annexed, with leave to refer to exhibits filed therewith. It was
held that the stipulation could not be regarded as taking the
place of a special verdict or of a special finding of facts, and
that the court had no jurisdiction to determine the question of
law arising thereon.
It is true there was no bill of exceptions in that case, but the
bill in this case presents no exception taken during the progress
of the trial, and only contains an exception to the conclusion of
the trial court in ordering judgment upon the issues in favor
of the defendant.
1ehnen v. Dickson, 148 U. S. 71, 77, decided that any mere recital of the testimony, whether in the opinion of the court or
in a bill of exceptions, could not be deemed a special finding of
facts within the scope of the statute; and if there were a general finding and no agreed statement of facts, the court must
accept that finding as conclusive and limit its inquiry to the
sufficiency of the complaint and to the rulings, if any be preserved on questions of law arising during the trial. The court,
in the opinion written by Mr. Justice Brewer, said:

WILSON v. MERCHANTS' LOAN & TRUST Co.

129

Opinion of the Court.

"But the burden of the statute is not thrown off simply because the witnesses do not contradict each other, and there is
no conflict in the testimony. It may be an easy thing in one
case for this court, when the testimony consists simply of deeds,
mortgages or other written instruments, to make a satisfactory
finding of the facts, and in another it may be difficult when the
testimony is largely in parol, and the witnesses directly contradict each other. But the rule of the statute is of universal application. It is not relaxed in one case because of the ease in
determining the facts, or rigorously enforced in another because
of the difficulty in such determination. The duty of finding
the facts is placed upon the trial court. We have no authority
to examine the testimony in any case, and from it make a finding of the ultimate facts."
In t. Louis v. Western Union Telegraph Company, 166 U. S.
388, it was held that the special finding of facts referred to in
the acts allowing parties to submit issues of fact in civil cases
to be tried and determined by the court is not a mere report of
the evidence, but a finding of those ultimate facts, upon which
the law must determine the rights of the parties, and if the
finding of facts be general, only such rulings made in the progress of the trial can be reviewed as are presented by a bill of
exceptions, and in such case the bill cannot be used to bring up
the whole testimony for review any more than in a trial by
jury.
We now hold, in accordance with the authorities, that an
agreed statement of facts which is so defective as to present, in
addition to certain ultimate facts, other and evidential facts
upon which a material ultimate fact might have been but which
was not agreed upon or found, cannot be regarded even as a
substantial compliance with the statute. Being concluded by
the general finding of the issues in favor of defendant, there is
no error in the record, and the judgment must be
Afirm'ed.
VOL. cOxxx-9

