DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.
In this case it appears that the business transactions out of
which these liabilities arose were carried on in California.
They resulted from business done in California by virtue of an
express contract made by the stockholders with reference to
such business. It is unnecessary to express an opinion upon the
question whether any personal liability would be assumed by
the stockholders in reference to business transacted in Colorado.
Parties may contract with special reference to carrying on business in separate States, and when they make an express contract therefor the business transacted in each of the States will
be affected by the laws of those States, and may result in a
difference of liability. Neither is it necessary to express any
opinion upon the question whether the defendants could have
been held liable under the California statutes, independently of
the provisions of the Colorado charter. All that we here hold
is that when a corporation is formed in one State, and by the
express terms of its charter it is created for doing business in
another State, and business is done in that State, it must be assumed that the charter contract was made with reference to
its laws; and the liabilities which those laws impose will attend the transaction of such business.
The judgment of the Superior Court is
Aftimed.

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 207. Argued January 8, 9,10, 11, 1901.-Decided December 2,1901.

The act of Congress taking effect May 1, 1900, and known as the Foraker
act, which requires all merchandise going into Porto Rico from the United States to pay a duty of fifteen per cent of the amount of duties paid
upon merchandise imported from foreign countries, is constitutional.
The Constitution, in declaring that no tax or duty shall be laid on articles
exported from any State, is limited to articles exported to a foreign country, and has no application to Porto Rico, which, in the case of De Lima

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.
v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, was held not to be a foreign country within the
meaning of the general tariff law then in force.
The fact that the duties so collected were not covered into th4 general fund
of the Treasury, but held as a separate fund to be used for the government and benefit of Porto Rico, and were made subject to repeal by the
legislative assembly of that island, shows that the tax was not intended
as a duty upon exports, and that Congress was undertaking to legislate
for the island temporarily, and only until a local government was put in
operation.

THis was an action begun in the Circuit Court as a Court of
Claims by the firm of Dooley, Smith & Co., to recover duties
exacted of them and paid under protest to the collector of the
port of San Juan, Porto Rico, upon merchandise imported into
that port from the port of New York after MN~ay 1, 1900, and
since the Foraker act. This act requires all merchandise "coming into Porto Rico from the United States" to be "entered at
the several ports of entry upon payment of fifteen per centum
of the duties which are required to be levied, collected and paid
upon like articles of merchandise imported from foreign countries."
A demurrer was interposed by the District Attorney upon
the ground that the court had no jurisdiction of the subject of
the action, and also that the complaint did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The demurrer to the complaint for insufficiency was sustained, and the petition dismissed.
The case was argued with De L-ima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1;
Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244; Dooley v. V-nited States,
182 U. S. 222; and Armstrong v. Uniited States, 182 U. S. 243.
fr. Henry X. Ward and Mr. John G. Carlislefor plaintiff
in error. .Ar. Edmund Curtis was on their brief.
.Afr. Attorney General and .AXr. Solicitor General for defendant in error.
Mi. JusTiE. BxowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This case raises the question of the constitutionality of the

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Foraker act, so far as it fixes the duties to be paid upon merchandise imported into Porto Rico from the port of New York.
The validity of this requirement is attacked upon the ground
of its violation of that clause of the Constitution (Art. I, sec. 9)
declaring that "no tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported
from any State."
While the words "import" and "export" are sometimes
used to denote goods passing from one State to another, the
word "import," in connection with the provision of the Constitution that "no State shall levy any imposts or duties on imports or exports," was held in Woodruff v. Parham,8 Wall.
123, to apply only to articles imported from foreign countries
into the United States.
That was an action to recover a tax imposed by the city of
Mobile for municipal purposes, upon sales at auction. Defendants, who were auctioneers, received in the course of their business for themselves, or as consignees or agents for others, large
amounts of goods and merchandise, the products of other States
than Alabama, and sold the same in Mobile to purchasers, in
unbroken and original packages. The Supreme Court of Alabama decided the case in favor of the tax, and the case came
here for review.
The question, as stated by Mr. Justice Miller, was "whether
merchandise brought from other States and sold, under the circumstances stated, comes within the prohibition of the Federal
Constitution, that no State shall, without the consent of Congress, levy any imposts or duties on imports or exports." Defendants relied largely upon a dictum in Brown v. -Maryland,
12 Wheat. 419, to the effect that the principles laid down in
that case as to the non-taxability of imports from foreign countries might perhaps apply equally to importations from a sister
State.
In discussing this question, and particularly of the power of
Congress to levy and collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises,
Mr. Justice Miller observed : "Is the word, ' impost,' here used,
intended to confer upon Congress a distinct power to levy a tax
upon all goods or merchandise carried from one State to another?
Or is the power limited to duties on foreign imports? If the

OCTOBER TERAf, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

former be intended, then the power conferred is curiously rendered nugatory by the subsequent clause of the ninth section,
which declares that no tax shall be laid on articles exported
from any State, for no article can be imported from one State
into another which is not at the same time exported from the
former. But if we give to the word ' imposts' as used in the
first mentioned clause, the definition of Chief Justice MIarshall,
and to the word 'export' the corresponding idea of something
carried out of the United States, we have, in the power to lay
duties on imports from abroad, and the prohibition to lay such
duties on exports to other countries the power and its limitations concerning imposts."
"It is not too much to say that, so far as our research has
extended, neither the word 'export,' 'import' or 'impost' is to
be found in the discussion on this subject, as they have come
down to us from that time, in reference to any other than foreign commerce, without some special form of words to show
that foreign commerce is not meant. Whether we look, then,
to the terms of the clause of the Constitution in question, or to
its relation to other parts of that instrument, or to the history
of its formation and adoption, or to the comments of the eminent men who took part in those transactions, we are forced to
the conclusion that no intention existed to prohibit, by this
clause," (that no State shall, without the consent of Congress,
levy any impost or duty upon any export or import,) "the right
of one State to tax articles brought into it from another." This
definition of the word impost was afterwards approved in Brown
v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622. See also Fairbankv. United States,
181 U. S. 283.
It follows, and is the logical sequence of the case of TIoodriff
v. Parham,that the word "export" should be given a correlative meaning, and applied only to goods exported to a foreign country. .Muller v. Baldwin, L. R. 9 Q. B. 457. If,
then, Porto Rico be no longer a foreign country under the Dingley act, as was held by a majority of this court in De -Limav.
Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, and Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S.
222, we find it impossible to say that goods carried from New
York to Porto Rico can be considered as "exported" from New

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

York within the meaning of that clause of the Constitution.
If they are neither exports nor imports, they are still liable to
be taxed by Congress under the ample and comprehensive authority conferred by the Constitution "to lay and collect taxes,
duties, imposts and excises." Art. 1, see. 8.
In another view, however, the case presented by the record
is, whether a duty laid by Congress upon goods arriving at
Porto Rico from New York is a duty upon an export from New
York, or upon an import to Porto Rico. The fact that the duty
is exacted upon the arrival of the goods at San Juan certainly
creates a presumption in favor of the latter theory. At the
same time it is possible that it may also be a duty upon an export. The mere fact that the duty is not laid at the port of
departure is by no means decisive against its being such. It is
too clear for argument that if vessels bound for a foreign country
were compelled to stop at an intermediate port and pay into the
Treasury of the United States a duty upon their cargoes, such
duty would be a tax upon an export, and the place of its exaction would be of little significance. The manner in which and
the place at which the tax is levied are of minor consequence.
Thus in Brown v. .faryland 12 Wheat. 419, it was held that
an act of a state legislature requiring importers of foreign goods
to take out a license was a violation of the Constitution declaring that no State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay
an impost or duty on imports or exports; and in the recent case
of Fairban v. United States, 181 U. S.283, we held that a discriminating stamp tax upon bills of lading, covering goods to be
carried to a foreign country, was a tax upon exports within the
same provision of the Constitution.
One thing, however, is entirely clear. The tax in question
was imposed upon goods impotted into Porto Rico, since it was
exacted by the collector of the port of San Juan after the arrival of the goods within the limits of that port. From this
moment the duties became payable as upon imported merchandise. United States v. Howell, 5 Cranch, 368; Arnold v. United
States, 9 Cranch, 104; .Yeredia v. United States, 13 Pet. 486.
Now while an import into one port almost necessarily involves
a prior export from another, still, in determining the character

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

of the tax imposed, it is important to consider whether the duty
be laid for the purpose of adding to the revenues of the country
from which the export takes place, or for the benefit of the territory into which they are imported. By the third section of
the Foraker act imposing duties upon merchandise coming into
Porto Rico from the United States, it is declared that "whenever the legislative assembly of Porto Rico shall have enacted
and put into operation a system of local taxation to meet the
necessities of the government of Porto Rico, by this act established, and shall by resolution duly passed so notify the President, he shall make proclamation thereof, and thereupon all
tariff duties on merchandise and articles going into Porto Rico
from the United States or coming into the United States from
Porto Rico shall cease, and from and after such date all such
merchandise and articles shall be entered at the several ports of
entry free of duty." And by section four, "the duties and taxes
collected in Porto Rico in pursuance of this act, less the cost of
collecting the same, and the gross amount of all collections and
taxes in the United States upon articles of merchandise coming
from Porto Rico, shall not be covered into the general fund of
the Treasury, but shall be held as a separate fund, and shall be
placed at the disposal of the President to be used for the government and benefit of Porto Rico until the government of
Porto Rico, herein provided for, shall have been organized, when
all moneys theretofore collected under the provisions hereof,
then unexpended, shall be transferred to the local treasury of
Porto Rico."
Now, there can be no doubt whatever that, if the legislative
assembly of Porto Rico should, with the consent of Congress,
lay a tax upon goods arriving from ports of the United States,
such tax, if legally imposed, would be a duty upon imports to
Porto Rico, and not upon exports from the United States; and
we think the same result must follow, if the duty be laid by
Congress in the interest and for the benefit of Porto Rico. The
truth is, that, in imposing the duty as a temporary expedient,
with a proviso that it may be abolished by the legislative assembly of Porto Rico at its will, Congress thereby shows that
it is undertaking to legislate for the island for the time being

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
MMt. JUSTICE WHITE, concurring.

and only until the local government is put into operation. The
mere fact that the duty passes through the hands of the revenue
officers of the United States is immaterial, in view of the requirement that it shall not be covered into the general fund of
the Treasury, but be held as a separate fund for the government
and benefit of Porto Rico.
The action is really correlative to that of .Downes v. Bidwell,
182 U. S. 244, in which we held that Congress could lawfully
impose a duty upon imports from Porto Rico, notwithstanding
the provision of the Constitution that all duties, imposts and
excises shall be uniform throughout the United States. It is
true that this conclusion was reached by a majority of the court
by different processes of reasoning, but it is none the less true
that in the conclusion that certain provisions of the Constitution
did apply to Porto Rico, and that certain others did not, there
was no difference of opinion.
It is not intended by this opinion to intimate that Congress
may lay an export tax upon merchandise carried from one State
to another. While this does not seem to be forbidden by the
express words of the Constitution, it would be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to lay such a tax without a violation of
the first paragraph of Art. 1, sec. 8, that "all duties, imposts
and excises shall be uniform throughout the United States."
There is a wide difference between the full and paramount
power of Congress in legislating for a territory in the condition
of Porto Rico and its power with respect to the States, which
is merely incidental to its right to regulate interstate commerce.
The question, however, is not involved in this case, and we do
not desire to express an opinion upon it.
These duties were properly collected, and the action of the
Circuit Court in sustaining the demurrer to the complaint was
correct, and it is therefore
Afflrmed.
Mm.

JUSTICE WHITE, concurring:

Whilst agreeing to the judgment of affirmance and in substance concurring in the opinion of the court just announced, by

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
MR.JusTICE WHITE, concurring.

which the affirmance is sustained, I propose to summarize in my
own language the reasoning which the opinion embodies as it
is by me understood.
In my judgment the opinion of the court in the cases of -De
Lirma v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, and Dooley v. United States, 182
U. S. 222, decided in the last term, and that just announced in
the case of The Diamond Rings, as well as the opinions of the
majority of the members of the court in Downes v. Bidwell, 182

U. S.244, also decided at the last term, when considered in connection with the previous adjudications of this court, are conclusive in favor of the affirmance of the judgment in this cause.
The question is, whether a tax imposed by authority of the act
of April 12, 1900, 31 Stat. 77, in Porto Rico, on merchandise
coming into that island from the United States, is repugnant to
clause 5, section 9, of Article I of the Constitution of the United
States, which provides that "no tax or duty shall be laid on
articles exported from any State." Is the tax here assailed an
export tax within the meaning of the Constitution ? If it is, the
judgment sustaining it should be reversed; if it is not, affirmance
is required.
In Ifoodrunf v. Parham (1870), 8 Wall. 123, the validity of a
tax on auction sales levied by the city of Mobile pursuant to
authority conferred by the laws of the State of Alabama was
called in question. One of the contentions was that, as the tax
was on sales at auction of goods in the original packages brought
into the State of Alabama from other States, it was repugnant
to that clause of section 9 of article I of the Constitution, which
forbids any State, without the consent of Congress, from laying
imposts or duties on imports or exports, except what may be
absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws. In approaching the consideration of the question thus presented, the
court, in its opinion, which was announced by Mr. Justice Miller, said, p. 131:
"The words imposts, imports and exports are frequently used
in the Constitution. They have a necessary co-relation, and
when we have a clear idea of what either word means in any particular connection in which it may be found, we have one of the
most satisfactory tests of its definition in other parts of the same

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
MR. JusTiCn WHITE,

concurring.

instrument. . . . Leaving, then, for a moment, the clause
of the Constitution under consideration," (forbidding a State to
lay an import or an export tax,) "we find the first use of these
co-relative terms in that clause of the eighth section of the first
article which begins the enumeration of the powers confided to
Congress, 'that Congress shall have power to levy and collect
taxes, duties, imposts and excises. . . . But all duties, imposts and excises shall be uniform throughout the United States.'
Is the word impost, here used, intended to confer upon Congress
a distinct power to levy a tax upon all goods or merchandise
carried from one State into another? Or is the power limited
to duties on foreign imports? If the former be intended, then
the power conferred is curiously rendered nugatory by the subsequent clause of the ninth section, which declares that no tax
shall be laid on articles exported from any State, for no article
can be imported from one State into another which is not, at
the same time, exported from the former. But if we give to
the word imposts, as used in the first-mentioned clause, the definition of Chief Justice M arshall, and to the word export the
corresponding idea of something carried out of the United
States, we have, in the power to lay duties on imports from
abroad and the prohibition to lay such duties on exports to
other countries, the power and its limitation concerning imposts."
The opinion then proceeded to elaborately consider the meaning of the words imports, exports and imposts in the Constitution, with reference to the powers of Congress, and concluded
that they related only to the bringing in of goods from a country
foreign to the United States or the taking out of goods from
the United States to such a country. From this conclusion the
deduction was drawn that the words imports and exports, when
used in the Constitution with reference to the power of the
several States, had a similar meaning, and hence the tax levied
by the city of Mobile was decided not to be repugnant to the
clause of the Constitution heretofore referred to, prohibiting a
State "from laying imposts or duties on imports or exports."
In the course of the opinion an intimation of Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall in Brown v. .Aaryland, that the words imports and

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
M

. JUSTICE WHITE,

concurring.

exports might relate to the movement of goods between the
States, was referred to, and it was expressly said that this was
a mere suggestion on the part of the Chief Justice, not involved
in the cause, and not therefore decided. So, also, the attention
of the court was directed to the case of Almy v. California,
(1860), 24 How. 169. That case involved the validity of a stamp
tax imposed in California on all bills of lading for the shipment
of gold from California to a point without the State. The particular bill of lading which was in question was for the shipment of gold from California to :New York. It was held that
this stamp tax was at least an indirect burden on exports, and
hence was void, because an export tax within the meaning of the
Constitution. In the opinion in Woodruff v. Parham,it was expressly decided that, although the conclusion in -Almy v. California that the tax was void, was sustained by the commerce
clause of the Constitution which had been referred to in the
argument of that case, it had been erroneously held that import
or export within the constitutional sense of the words related
to the movement of goods between the States and not exclusively to foreign commerce. To the extent therefore that Almy
v. California, held or intimated that an export or import tax
within the meaning of the Constitution embraced anything but
foreign commerce, it was expressly overruled.
In Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S.622, decided in 1884, fourteen years after the decision in Woodruf v. Parham,the question which arose in the latter case was again presented. A tax
levied by the State of Louisiana on certain coal which had
come down the Ohio River was assailed on the ground that it
amounted to both an export and import tax within the meaning
of the Constitution. The court, speaking through -Mr. Justice
Bradley, said (p. 628):
"It was decided by this court in the case of Foodruf v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123, that the term imports as used in that clause
of the Constitution which declares that ' no State shall without
the consent of Congress lay any imposts or duties on imports
or exports,' does not refer to articles carried from one State into
another, but only to articles imported from foreign countries
into the United States."

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
MI. JUSTICE WHITE, concurring.

The opinion, after stating the facts which were presented in
Woodruff v. Parham,and the cofftention which was in that case
based upon them, said (pp. 628, 629):
"This court, however, after an elaborate examination of the
question, held that the terms 'imports' and 'exports' in the
clause under consideration had reference to goods brought from
or carried to foreign countries alone and not to goods transported from one State to the other. It is unnecessary, therefore, to consider further the question raised by the plaintiffs in
error under their assignment of error so far as it is based on the
assumption that the tax complained of was an impost or duty
on imports."
Thus treating the meaning of the words imports and exports
as having been conclusively determined by Woodruff v. Parham,
the court passed to the consideration of the contention that the
tax levied in the State of Louisiana was an export tax within
the meaning of the Constitution, because some of the coal was
intended for export to a foreign country, or had been, as it was
claimed, in part actually exported to such country.
Again, in Fairban v. United States, (1900) 181 U. S. 283,
the court was called upon to determine whether the requirement in an act of Congress that a revenue stamp be affixed to
every bill of lading for goods shipped to a foreign country was
a tax on exports. In the course of the opinion, in considering
the question, the court referred to Almy v. California, suyra,
as authority for the proposition that a tax on the bill of lading
was a tax on the movement of the goods which the bill of lading evidenced. But, in referring to the Almy case, the court
was careful to say (p. 294):
"It is true that thereafter in Woodruff v. Parham,8 Wall.
123, it was held that the words ' imports' and ' exports,' as used
in the Constitution, were used to define the shipment of articles
between this and a foreign country and not that between the
States, and while therefore that case is no longer an authority as
to what is or what is not an export, the proposition that a
stamp duty on a bill of lading is in effect a duty on the article
transported remains unaffected."
A consideration of the opinons in Woodruff v. Parham and
VOL. CLXXXIII-ll

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
M . JUSTICE WHITE, concurring.

Brown v. Houston, so recently in effect approved by this court
in the case of Fairbankv. Mited States, will make it clear that
an adherence to the interpretation of the words export and import which was expounded in those cases is essential to the preservation of the necessary powers of taxation of the several
States, as well as of those of the government of the United
States. And, by implication, in a number of cases decided by
this court since the decision in Woodruf v. Parham,the doctrine of export and import there defined has been, if not expressly, at least tacitly, approved in many ways. Indeed, it
may be safely assumed that many state statutes levying taxes
and much legislation of Congress has been enacted upon the
express or implied recognition of the settled construction of the
Constitution hitherto affixed to the import and export clauses
by this court in the cases referred to. And this will be made
obvious when it is considered that if the words export and import as used in the Constitution be applied to the movement of
goods between the States, then it amounts to not only an express prohibition on the States to impose any direct but also
any indirect burden, and, therefore, under the doctrine of Brown
v. Maryland, any state tax law which would indirectly burden
the coming of goods from one State to the other would be
wholly void. So also, as to the government of the United
States, if the provision as to the laying and collection of imposts be not construed as a "distinct" provision relating to
foreign commerce and co-related with the clause as to exports,
it would follow, as was clearly pointed out in Woodwuff v. Parham, that the Constitution had granted on the one hand a
power and immediately denied it. Besides, it would follow
that all the general powers of taxation conferred upon Congress
would be limited by the export clause, and thus any domestic
tax, although fulfilling the requirements of uniformity and not
violating the prohibition against preferences which indirectly
burdened the ultimate export, would be void, a doctrine which
would manifestly cause to be invalid methods of taxation exercised by Congress from the beginning without question.
It being then beyond doubt that this court has, in a line of
well-considered cases, determined that the words export and

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
MB. JUsTICE WnHITE, concurring.

import when employed in the Constitution relate to the bringing in of goods from a country foreign to the United States and
to the carrying out of goods from the United States to such a
country, the only question remaining is, Is Porto Rico a country foreign to the United States? In answering this question
it is manifest, from the entire reasoning of the court, in the
cases in which it was decided that the terms export and import
relate to a foreign country alone, that the words foreign country, as used in those opinions, signified a country outside of the
sovereignty of the United States and beyond its legislative authority, and that such meaning of those words was absolutely
essential to the process of reasoning by which the conclusion
in the cases referred to was reached.
Is Porto Rico a country foreign to the United States in the
sense that it is not within the sovereignty and not subject to the
legislative authority of the United States, is then the issue. In
.De lima v. Bidwell and Dooley v. United States, supra,it was
held that instantly upon the ratification of the treaty with Spain,
Porto Rico ceased to be a foreign country within the meaning
of the tariff laws of the United States. In Fourteen Diamond
Rings, post, 176, it has just been held that the Philippine Islands immediately upon the ratification of the treaty ceased to
be foreign country within the meaning of the tariff laws; and
of course, as these islands were acquired by the same treaty by
which Porto Rico was acquired, this ruling is predicated on the
decisions in lDe Zima and Dooley, above referred to. It is true
that both in the De Lima and the .Dooley cases, as well as in the
case of The lDiamond Rings, just decided, dissents were announced. None of the dissents rested, however, upon the
theory that Porto Rico or the Philippine Islands had not come
under the sovereignty and become subject to the legislative
authority of the United States, but were based on the ground
that legislation by Congress was necessary to bring the territory
within the line of the tariff laws in force at the time of the acquisition; and especially was this the case where the new territory had not, as the result of the acquisition, been incorporated
into the United States as an integral part thereof, though con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
M . JUSTICE WHITE, concurring.

ing under its sovereignty and subject, as a possession, to the
legislative power of Congress.
In Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244, the question was whether
a tax imposed by Congress on goods coming into the United
States from Porto Rico was repugnant to that clause of the Constitution requiring uniformity "throughout the United States"
of all "duties, imposts and excises." The contention on the one
hand was, that as Porto Rico had by the treaty with Spain
been acquired by the United States, Congress could not impose
a burden on goods coming from Porto Rico, in disregard of the
requirement of uniformity "throughout the United States."
On the other hand, it was contended that although Porto Rico
had become territory of the United States and was subject to
the legislative authority of Congress, it had not been so made
a part of the United States as to cause Congress to be subject,
in legislating in regard to that island, to the uniformity provision of the Constitution. The court maintained the latter view.
Whilst it is true that the members of the court who agreed in this
conclusion did so for different reasons, nevertheless, in all the
opinions delivered by the Justices who formed the majority of
the court, it was declared that Porto Rico had come under the
sovereignty and was subject to the legislative authority of the
United States. Indeed, this was controverted by no one, since
the members of the court who dissented did so because they
deemed that Porto Rico had so entirely ceased to be foreign
country and had so completely been made a part of the United
States, that Congress could not, in legislating for that island,
disregard the provision of uniformity throughout the United
States.
It having been thus affirmatively repeatedly determined that
the export and import clauses of the Constitution refer only to
commerce with foreign countries, that is, to a country or countries without the sovereignty and entirely beyond the legislative authority of the United States, and it having been conclusively settled that Porto Rico is not such a country, it seems
to me the claim here made that the tax imposed by Congress
in Porto Rico is an export or an import within the meaning of
the Constitution, is untenable. But, it is said, if Porto Rico is

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
M . JUSTICE

WHITE, concurring.

not foreign, and, therefore, the tax laid on goods in that island
on their arrival from the United States is not within the purview of the import and the inhibition of the export clauses of
the Constitution, then Porto Rico is domestic, and the tax is
void because repugnant to the first clause of section 8 of article I of the Constitution conferring upon Congress "the power
to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises,

.

.

.

but

all duties, imposts and excises shall be uniform throughout the
United States." This contention, however, is but a restatement
of the proposition which the court held to be unsound in D3ownes
v. Bidwell; for, in that case, it was expressly decided that a provision of the statute now in question which imposes a tax on
goods coming to the United States from Porto Rico was valid
because that island occupied such a relation to the United States
as empowered Congress to exact such a tax, since requirement
of uniformity throughout the United States was inapplicable.
I do not propose to recapitulate the grounds of the conclusion
so elaborately expressed by the opinions of the majority of the
court in that case, since it suffices to say, for the purposes of the
uniformity clause, that that decision is controlling in this case.
If the contention be that because the impost clause of the Constitution refers only to foreign commerce, therefore there was no
power in Congress to impose the tax in question, or that such
power is impliedly denied, the contention is unfounded, and
really but amounts to an indirect attack upon the doctrines announced in Woodrufl v. Parham,Br"own v. HMouston and Fairbanke v. Vrnited States. As held in Woodra& v. Parham,the
impost clause and the export clause are correlated and refer to
a distinct subject, that is, foreign commerce. By what process
of reasoning it can be said that because a special enumeration
on a particular subject of taxation and a particular limitation
as to that subject is expressed in the Constitution, therefore
other and general powers of taxation not relating to the subject
in question are taken away, is not by me perceived. Certainly
the argument cannot be that because a power has been conferred
on Congress by the Constitution to levy a tax on foreign commerce, therefore the Constitution has taken away from Congress power to tax even indirectly domestic commerce. Be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
FULLER, C. J., HARLAN, BREWER and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

cause the grant of power as to imposts contained in the first
clause of section 8 of article I of the Constitution relates to foreign commerce there arises no limitation on the general authority to tax as to all other subjects, which flow from the other
provisions of the same clause. Referring to such power-the
authority to levy and collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises
-the court, in the -License Tax Cases, (1866) 5 Wall. 462, 471,
said:
"The power of Congress to tax is a very extensive power.
It is given in the Constitution, with only one exception and
only two qualifications. Congress cannot tax exports, and it
must impose direct taxes by the rule of apportionment, and indirect taxes by the rule of uniformity. Thus limited, and thus
only, it reaches every subject, and may be exercised at discretion."
Of course, the Constitution contemplates freedom of commerce between the States, but it also confers upon Congress the
powers of taxation to which I have referred, and safeguards
the freedom of commerce and equality of taxation between the
States by conferring upon Congress the power to regulate such
commerce, by providing for the apportionment of direct taxes,
by exacting uniformity throughout the United States in the
laying of duties, imposts and excises, and by prohibiting preferences between ports of different States. Indeed, when the argument which I am considering is properly analyzed, it amounts
to a denial, as I have said, of the substantial powers of Congress with regard to domestic taxation, and, as I understand it,
overthrows the settled interpretation of the Constitution, long
since announced and consistently adhered to.
MR.CHIEF JusTicE FULLER, with
TICE HARLAN, MIR. JUSTICE BREWER

whom concurred MR. Jusand MR.

JUsTICE PEcKHAM,

dissenting:
This is an action brought to recover back duties levied and
collected under the Porto Rican act of April 12, 1900, 31 Stat.
77, at San Juan, on articles shipped to that port by citizens of
New York from the State of New York. Plaintiffs were en-

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
FULLER, C. J., HARLAN, BnEwnn and P.Ecinu., JJ., dissenting.

gaged in the business of commission merchants, having their
main office in the city of New York and a branch office at San
Juan.
The second section of the act provides that, from the time of
its passage, "the same tariffs, customs, and duties shall be levied,
collected, and paid upon all articles imported into Porto Rico
from ports other than those of the United States which are required by law to be collected upon articles imported into the
United States from foreign countries," with some exceptions
not material here.
The third section, by which these duties are imposed, reads:
"That on and after the passage of this act all merchandise coming into the United States from Porto Rico and coming into
Porto Rico from the United States shall be entered at the several ports of entry upon payment of fifteen per centum of the
duties which are required to be levied, collected, and paid upon
like articles of merchandise imported from foreign countries;
and in addition thereto upon articles of merchandise of Porto
Rican manufacture coming into the United States and withdrawn for consumption or sale upon payment of a tax equal to
the internal revenue tax imposed in the United States upon
the like articles of merchandise of domestic manufacture ;" and
it was further provided that articles of merchandise manufactured in the United States coming into Porto Rico should, after
entry, be subject to whatever internal revenue taxes might be
in force on the island. And also that whenever the legislative
assembly of Porto Rico should have enacted and put into operation a system of local taxation, and proclamation thereof had
been made, "all tariff duties on merchandise and articles going
into Porto Rico from the United States or coming into the United States from Porto Rico shall cease."
Assuming that "the United States" as referred to is the
United States as constituted at the date of the proclamation of
the treaty, the act, explicitly recognizing the distinction between tariff duties and internal taxes, is in respect of such duties
an act to raise revenue by taxing the commerce of the people
of every State and Territory.
The fact that the net proceeds of the duties are appropriated

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
FULLER, C. J., HA nAw, BREWER and PRCKH=m, JJ., dissenting.

by the act for use in Porto Rico does not affect their character
any more than if so appropriated by another and separate act.
The taxation reaches the people of the States directly, and is
national and not local, even though the revenue derived therefrom is devoted to local purposes.
Customs duties are duties imposed on imports or exports,
and, according to the terms of this act, these are customs duties,
not levied according to the rule of uniformity, and laid on exports as well as imports.
By the first clause of section 8 of Article I of the Constitution, Congress is empowered to lay and collect duties, imposts
and excises, subject to the rule of uniformity, but this court
has held that customs duties are only leviable on foreign commerce, Woodru.e v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123, and that the uniformity required is geographical merely, Enowlton v. Xoore,
178 _U. S. 41. By the third clause of the same section, Congress
is empowered "to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and
among the several States, and with the Indian tribes." The
power to tax and the power to regulate commerce are distinct
powers, yet the power of taxation may be so exercised as to
operate in regulation of commerce.
Clauses 5 and 6 of section 9 provide:
"No tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any
State.
" No preference shall be given by any regulation of commerce
or revenue to the ports of one State over those of another; nor
shall vessels bound to or from one State be obliged to enter,
clear or pay duties in another."
These provisions were intended to prevent the application of
the power to lay taxes or duties, or the power to regulate commerce, so as to discriminate between one part of the country
and another. The regulation of commerce by a majority vote
and the exemption of exports from duties or taxes were parts
of one of the great compromises of the Constitution.
If, after the cession, Porto Rico remained a foreign country,
the prohibition of clause 5 would be fatal to these duties; while
if Porto Rico became domestic, then, as they are customs duties,
they could not be sustained, according to Woodruj v. Parham,

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
FULLER, C. J., HALAN, BRE

ER and PEcKHAmI, JO., dissenting.

under the first clause of section 8; and were also prohibited by
clause 5 of section 9, whether customs duties or not, if the application of that clause is not limited to foreign commerce.
The prohibition, that "no tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any State," negatives the existence of any
power in Congress to lay taxes or duties in any form on articles exported from a State, irrespectiveof their destination,and,
this being so, the act in imposing the duties in question is invalid, whether Porto Rico, after its passage, was a foreign or
reputed foreign territory, a domestic Territory, or a territory
subject to be dealt with at the will of Congress regardless of
constitutional limitations.
Confessedly the prohibition.applies to foreign commerce, and
the question is whether it is confined to that. In other words,
whether language which embraces all articles exported can be
properly restricted to particular exports. On what ground can
the insertion in this comprehensive denial of power of the words
"to foreign countries," thereby depriving it of effect on commerce other than foreign, be justified?
If the words "exported from any State" apply only to articles exported from a State to a foreign country, it would seem
to follow that the broad power granted to Congress "to lay
and collect taxes," for the purposes specified in the Constitution, may be exerted in the way of taxation on articles exported
from one State to another. The right to carry legitimate articles of commerce from one State to another State without interference by national or state authority was, it has always been
supposed, firmly established and secured by the Constitution.
But that right may be destroyed or greatly impaired if it be
true that articles may be taxed by Congress by reason of their
being carried from one State to another.
Undoubtedly the clause confines the power to lay customs
duties or imposts to imports only. This was so stated by Mr.
Hamilton in the thirty-second number of The Federalist: "The
first clause of the same section [ยง 8] empowers Congress 't o lay
and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises;' and the second
clause of the tenth section of the same article declares that 'no
State shall, without the consent of Congress lay any imposts or

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
FULLER, C. J., HARLAN, BREwER and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

duties on imports or exports, except for the purpose of execut-

ing its inspection laws.' Hence would result an exclusive power
in the Union to lay duties on imports and exports, with the
particular exception mentioned. But this power is abridged
by another clause, which declares that no tax or duty shall be
laid on articles exported from any State; in consequence of
which qualification it now only extends to the duties on imports."

Nevertheless because the clause secured that object, it is not
to be assumed that it was not also intended to secure unrestrained intercourse between the different parts of a common
country.
As was said in Gibbons v. Ogden, the right of intercourse between State and State was derived "from those laws whose
authority is acknowledged by civilized man throughout the
world. The Constitution found it an existing right, and gave
to Congress the power to regulate it." 9 Wheat. 1, 211. From
this grant, however, the power to regulate by the levy of any
tax or duty on articles exported from any State was expressly
withheld.
In Woodruf v. Parham,8 Wall. 123, 132, Mr. Justice Miller,
in support of the conclusion that clause 1 of section 8 was confined as to customs duties to foreign commerce, said: "Is the
word impost, here used, intended to confer upon Congress a
distinct power to levy a tax upon all goods or merchandise
carried from one State into another? Or is the power limited
to duties on foreign imports? If the former be intended, then
the power conferred is curiously rendered nugatory by the subsequent clause of the ninth section, which declares that no tax
shall be laid on articles exported from any State, for no article
can be imported from one State into another which is not, at the
same time, exported from the former."
In that case, clause 2 of section 10 was under consideration:
"No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports, except what may be
absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws; and the
net produce of all duties and imposts, laid by any State on imports or exports, shall be for the use of the Treasury of the

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
FULLER, 0. J., HARLAIN, BREWER.and PECKHAN, JJ., dissenting.

United States; and all such laws shall be subject to the revision
and control of the Congress."
It was held that this referred to foreign commerce only, and
"that no intention existed to prohibit, by this clause, the right of
one State to tax articles brought into it from another." This
was reaffirmed in B'own v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622, 630, and Mr.
Justice Bradley said: "But in holding with the decision in lT ood,
ruff v. Parham, that goods carried from one State to another
are not imports or exports within- the meaning of the clause
which prohibits a State from laying any impost or duty on imports or exports, we do not mean to be understood as holding
that a State may levy import or export duties on goods imported
from or exported to another State. We only mean to say that
the clause in question does not prohibit it. Whether the laying
of such duties by a State would not violate some other provision
of the Constitution, that, for example, which gives to Congress
the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, among
the several States, and with the Indian tribes, is a different question."
That question has been repeatedly answered by this court to
the effect "that no State has the right to lay a tax on interstate commerce in any form, whether by way of duties laid on
the transportation of the subjects of that commerce, or on the
receipts derived from that transportation, or on the occupation
or business of carrying it on, for the reason that such taxation
is a burden on that commerce, and amounts to a regulation of
4/ng v. .ficiga, 135
it, which belongs solely to Congress."
U. S. 161, 166. But if that power of regulation is absolutely
unrestricted as respects interstate commerce, then the very unity
the Constitution was framed to secure can be set at naught by
a legislative body created by that instrument.
Such a conclusion is wholly inadmissible. The power to regulate interstate commerce was granted in order that trade between the States might be left free from discriminating legislation and not to impart the power to create antagonistic commercial relations between them.
The prohibition of preference of ports was coupled with the
prohibition of taxation on articles exported. The citizens of

OCTOBER TERWI, 1901.
FULLER, C. J., HARLA ,, BREWER ,nd PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

each State were declared " entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States," and that included the
right of ingress and egress, and the enjoyment of the privileges
of trade and commerce. Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36.
And so the court, in 1TVoodruff v. Parham,as the quotation
from its opinion by Mr. Justice Miller demonstrates, did not
put upon the absolute and general prohibition of power to lay
any tax or duty on articles exported from any State that narrow construction which would limit it to exports to a foreign
country, and would concede the power to Congress to impose
duties on exports from one State to another in regulation of
interstate commerce.
The power to lay duties in regulation of commerce with foreign nations is relied on as the source of power to pass laws for
the protection and encouragement of domestic industries, and
except for this clause the same effect would be attributed to
the power to regulate commerce among the States. This, however, the clause, literally read, prevents, and to limit its application to foreign commerce, as the power to lay customs duties
under the first clause of section 8 has been limited, would defeat the manifest purpose of the Constitution by enabling discriminating taxes and duties to be laid against one section of
the country as distinguished from another.
And if the prohibition be not confined to foreign commerce
then it applies to all commerce, not wholly internal to the respective States, and the destination of articles exported from a
State cannot affect, or be laid hold of to affect, the result.
In short, clause 5 operates, and was intended to operate, to
except the power to lay any tax or duty on articles exported
from the general power to regulate commerce whether interstate or foreign. And this is equally true in respect of commerce with the territories, for the power to regulate commerce
includes the power to regulate it not only as between foreign
countries and the territories, but also by necessary implication
as between the States and Territories. Stoutenburgh v. Hennick, 129 U. S.141.
Nothing is better settled than that the States cannot interfere with interstate commerce, yet it is easy to see that if the

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
FULLER, C. J., HARLAw, BnEWER and PE=CKHA,

JJ., dissenting.

exclusive delegation to Congress of the power to regulate commerce did not embrace commerce between the States and Territories, the interference by the States with such commerce might
be justified.
Again, if, in any view, these duties could be treated as other
than custom duties, the result would be the same, inasmuch as
the goods were articles exported from New York, and there
was a total lack of power to lay any tax or duty on such articles.
The prohibition on Congress is explicit, and noticeably different from the prohibition on the States. The State is forbidden
to lay "any imposts or duties;" Congress is forbidden to lay
"any tax or duty." The State is forbidden from laying imposts
or duties "on imports or exports," that is, articles coming into
or going out of the United States. Congress is forbidden to
tax "articles exported from any State."
The plain language of the Constitution should not be made
"blank paper by construction," and its specific mandate ought
to be obeyed.
As said in Xaarbu2y v. MAfadison, "It is declared that ' no tax
or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any State.' Suppose a duty on the export of cotton, of tobacco, or of flour;
and a suit instituted to recover it. Ought judgment to be rendered in such a case? Ought the judges to close their eyes on
the Constitution, and only see the law?" 1 Cranch, 137, 178.
Nor is the result affected by the fact that the collection of
these duties was at Porto Rico.
In Brown v. afaryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 437, Chief Justice
Marshall said: "An impost, or duty on imports, is a custom or
a tax levied on articles brought into a country, and is most usually secured before the importer is allowed to exercise his rights
of ownership over them, because evasions of the law can be
prevented more certainly by executing it while the articles are
in its custody. It would not, however, be less a duty or impost
on the articles, if it were to be levied on them after they were
landed. The policy and consequent practice of levying or securing the duty before, or on entering, the port, does not limit
the power to that state of things, nor, consequently, the pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
FuLLER, 0. J., HA.R'A.N, BREWER and PECKHAbi,

JJ., dissenting.

hibition, unless the true meaning of the clause so confines it.
What, then, are ' imports ?' The lexicons inform us they are
'things imported.' If we appeal to usage for the meaning of
the word, we shall receive the same answer. They are the articles themselves which are brought into the country. ' A duty
on imports,' then, is not merely a duty on the act of importation, but is a duty on the thing imported. It is not, taken in
its literal sense, confined to a duty levied while the article is
entering the country, but extends to a duty levied after it has
entered the country."
And so of exports. They are the things exported-the articles themselves. A duty on exports is not merely a duty on
the act of exportation, but is a duty on the article exported,
and the article exported remains such until it has reached its
final destination. The place of collection is purely incidental,
and immaterial on the question of power.
But we are told that these duties were laid, not on articles
exported from the State of New York, but on articles imported
into Porto Rico. The language used, however, precludes this
contention, and there is nothing in the act to indicate that at
some particular point on a voyage articles exported were to
cease to be such and to become imports, and nothing in the
facts in this case to indicate a sea change of that sort as to these
goods. The geographical origin of the shipment controls, and,
as heretofore said, it is not material whether the duties were
collectible at the place of exportation or at Porto Rico. They
were imposed on articles exported from the State of New York,
and before the articles had reached their ultimate destination
and been mingled with the common mass of property on the
island.
Chief Justice Marshall disposed of the suggested evasion
thus: "Suppose revenue cutters were to be stationed off the
coast for the purpose of levying a duty on all merchandise
found in vessels which were leaving the United States for foreign countries; would it be received as an excuse for this outrage were the government to say that exportation meant no
more than carrying goods out of the country, and as the prohibition to lay a tax on imports, or things imported, ceased the

DOOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
FULLER, 0. J., HiARLA, BEEWEn and PEOKE. I, JJ., dissenting.

instant they were brought into the country, so the prohibition
to tax articles exported ceased when they were carried out of
the country." 12 Wheat. 445.
There is no difference in principle between the case supposed
and that before us. The course of transportation is arrested
until the exaction is paid.
The proposition that because the proceeds of these duties
were to be used for the benefit of Porto Rico they might be
regarded as if laid by Porto Rico itself with the consent of
Congress, and were, therefore, lawful, will not bear examination. No money can be drawn from the Treasury except in
consequence of appropriations made by law. This act does not
appropriate a fixed sum for the benefit of Porto Rico, but provides that the money collected, and collected from citizens of
the United States in every port of the United States, shall be
placed in a separate fund or subsequently in the treasury of
Porto Rico, to be expended for the government and benefit
thereof. And although the destination of the proceeds in this
way were lawful, it would not convert duties on articles exported from the States into local taxes.
States may, indeed, under the Constitution, lay duties on foreign imports and exports, for the use of the Treasury of the
United States, with the consent of Congress, but they do not
derive the power from the general government. The power
prefxisted, and it is its exercise only that is subjected to the
discretion of Congress.
Congress may lay local taxes in the Territories, affecting persons and property therein, or authorize territorial legislatures
to do so, but it cannot lay tariff duties on articles exported from
one State to another, or from any State to the Territories, or
from any State to foreign countries, or grant a power in that
regard which it does not possess. But the decision now made
recognizes such powers in Congress as will enable it, under the
guise of taxation, to exclude the products of Porto Rico from
the States as well as the products of the States from Porto
Rico; and this notwithstanding it was held in Do lima v. BidweZ, 182 U. S.1, that Porto Rico after the ratification of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Counsel for Parties.

treaty with Spain ceased to be foreign and became domestic
territory.
My brothers HARLAN, BREWER and PECKHAX concur in this
dissent. We think it clear on this record that plaintiffs were
entitled to recover and that the judgment should be reversed.

FOURTEEN

DIAMOND

RINGS,

EMIL J. PEPKE,

CLAIMANT v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 153. Argued December 17,18, 19 and 20,1900.-Decided December 2, 1901.

1. The ruling in DeLima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, reaffirmed and applied.
2. No distinction, so far as the question determined in that case is concerned, can be made between the Philippines and the Island of Porto
Rico, after the ratification of the treaty of peace between the United
States and Spain, April 11, 1899, and certainly not
(a) Because of the passage by the Senate alone, by a majority, but not
two thirds of a quorum, of a joint resolution in respect to the intention
of the Senate in the ratification;
(b) Or, because of the armed resistance of the native inhabitants, or of uncivilized tribes, in the Philippines, to the dominion of the United States;
(c) Or, because one of the justices who concurred in the judgment in De
Lima v. Bidwell, also concurred in the judgment in Dowres v. Bidwell,
182 U. S. 244.

The statement of the case will be found in the opinion of the
court. The case was argued December 17, 18, 19 and 20, 1900.
Goetze, Appellant, v. United States was heard at the same time.
Leave was granted in this case to Mi,. Alexander Porter Xorse
to file a brief on behalf of interested parties.
Xtr. Jverit Brown and .1'. Edward C. Perkins for appellant.

-Mr.Lawrence

armon for plaintiff in errror.

