ARKANSAS v. KANSAS & TEXAS COAL CO. &c. 185
Statement of the Case.

lations between the Spanish possessions ceded by the treaty
and the United States should remain unchanged until legislation had been had upon the subject; but in the absence of such
provision the case is clearly controlled by that of De Lima v.
Bidwell.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY, MR. JUSTICE SHrRAS, MR. JUSTICE WHITE

and MRi. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissented, for the reasons stated in
their opinions in .De Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, 200-220, in
Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S. 222, 236-243, and in .Downes
v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244, 287-3417.

ARKANSAS v. KANSAS AND TEXAS COAL COMPANY
AND SAN FRANCISCO RAILROAD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 42. Submitted October 23, 1901.-Decided December 2,1901.
The test of the right to remove a case from a state court into the Circuit
Court of the United States under section two of the act of March 3,
1887, as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, is that it must be a case
over which the Circuit Court might have exercised original jurisdiction
under section one of that act.
A case cannot be removed on the ground that it is one arising under the
Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States unless that appears by
plaintiff's statement of his own claim, and if it does not so appear, the
want of it cannot be supplied by any statement of the petition for removal or in the subsequent pleadings, or by taking judicial notice of
facts not relied on and regularly brought into controversy.
Although it appears from plaintiff's statement of his claim that it cannot
be maintained at all because inconsistent with the Constitution or laws
of the United States, it does not follow that the case arises under that
Constitution or those laws.

Tnrs was a bill filed in the circuit court of Sebastian County,
for the district of Greenwood, Arkansas, by "The State of Ar-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

kansas, on the relation of Jo Johnson, prosecuting attorney for
the 12th judicial circuit," against the Kansas and Texas Coal
Company and the St. Louis and San Francisco Railroad Company, which, "for her cause of action," alleged, that the railroad company was "a corporation organized under the laws
of the State of Missouri, owning and operating a railroad in the
12th judicial circuit of Arkansas and more particularly in Sebastian County, of said circuit;" that the coal company was
"a corporation duly organized under the laws of the State of
Missouri, owning and operating a coal mine in Huntington, in
the Greenwood district of Sebastian County." "That a high
state of excitement and condition of hot blood now prevails
between striking miners and their sympathizers in large numbers, on the one side, and said coal company and its employ~s,
on the other. That said coal company is threatening and is
about to import into said county and town of Huntington, over
the line of their co-defendant's railroad, a large number of armed
men of the low and lawless type of humanity, to wit, about two
hundred, to the great danger of the public peace, morals, and
good health of said county, and more particularly of said town.
That said threatened action on the part of said defendant, if
permitted to be executed, would become a great public nuisance
and would destroy the peace, morals, and good health of said
county and town, and would lead to riot, bloodshed, and to the
dissemination of contagious and infectious diseases."
The bill prayed "that the defendant Kansas and Texas Coal
Company, its agents, servants, and employ~s, and each of them,
be restrained and prohibited from importing or causing to be
imported or brought into Sebastian County or the 12th judicial
circuit of Arkansas, and that the Saint Louis and San Francisco
Railroad Company, its agents, servants, and employs-each,
both, and all of them-be enjoined, restrained, and prohibited
from importing, hauling, or bringing, or causing to be imported,
hauled, or brought in the said county or circuit, and from unloading or attempting to unload from any of its cars in said
county or circuit any and all large bodies of armed, lawless, or
riotous persons or persons affected with contagious or infectious
diseases that might endanger the peace, good order, or good

ARKANSAS v. KANSAS & TEXAS COAL CO. &c.

187

Opinion of the Court.

health of the State, or create a public nuisance in said county
or circuit, under the pains and penalty of the law."
A preliminary injunction was granted and process issued.
Defendants filed their petition and bond for removal, and made
application therefor, which was denied by the circuit court of
Sebastian County, whereupon defendants filed in the United
States Circuit Court for the Western District of Arkansas
a certified transcript of the record and of the pleadings and
papers in the case.
The petition for removal averred that Jo Johnson was a
citizen of Arkansas, that defendants were citizens of Missouri,
and that the controversy in the suit was wholly between citizens
of different States; and also that, treating the State of Arkansas as complainant, the suit was one arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States because defendants were
engaged in interstate commerce, and the action was an unlawful interference therewith by reason of the commerce clause of
the Federal Constitution and of laws passed in pursuance
thereof; and which constituted a defence in the premises.
Complainant moved to remand the cause, and defendants
moved to dissolve the injunction, and that complainant be restrained from the prosecution of the suit in the state court.
The Circuit Court of the United States overruled the motion
to remand, and sustained the motion to dissolve, but declined
to enjoin complainant. 96 Fed. Rep. 353. The cause came
on subsequently for final hearing, the bill was dismissed, and
this appeal was prosecuted.
.X'. Ben T. -Du V1al for appellant.
.XM. Adiel Sherwood, X'.Joseph
Brizzolara for appellees.
M

l. Hill and Xrh. James

.CHIEF JUSmCE FuLLEn delivered the opinion of the court.

The gravamen of the bill was the injury to the health, morals,
peace and good order of the people of the town and county,
the infliction of which was alleged to be threatened by the

-

OCTOBER TERM[, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

bringing within their precincts of certain persons by defendants.
No statute of the State was referred to as applicable, but the
enforcement of the police power was sought through the interposition of a court of equity by way of prevention of an impending public nuisance. The Circuit Court was of opinion
that the bill could not be maintained, but, without intimating
any conclusion to the contrary, or criticising its formal sufficiency, the question that meets us on the threshold is whether
the case ought to have been remanded to the state court.
We need not spend any time on the contention that this was
a controversy between citizens of different States. The Circuit
Court correctly held otherwise. The State of Arkansas was
the party complainant, and a State is not a citizen. Postal
Telegraph Cable Company v. Alabama,155 U. S. 482.
We inquire, then, if the cause was removable because arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States.
The general policy of the act of March 3, 1887, as corrected
by the act of August 13, 1888, (21 Stat. 552, c. 373; 25 Stat.
433, c. 866,) as is apparent on its face, and as has been repeatedly
recognized by this court, was to contract the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Courts. Those cases, and those only, were made removable under section two, in respect of which original jurisdiction
was given to the Circuit Courts by section one. Hence it has
been settled that a case cannot be removed from a state court
into the Circuit Court of the United States on the sole ground
that it is one arising under the Constitution, laws or treaties of
the United States, unless that appears by plaintiff's statement
of his own claim; and if it does not so appear, the want of it
cannot be supplied by any statement of the petition for removal
or in the subsequent pleadings. And moreover that jurisdiction
is not conferred by allegations that defendant intends to assert
a defence based on the Constitution or a law or treaty of the
United States, or under statutes of the United States, or of a
State, in conflict with the Constitution. Tennessee v. Union &
Planters' Bank, 152 U. S. 454; Chiappell v. Waterworth, 155
U. S. 102; Walker v. Collins, 167 U. S. 57; Sawyer v. Kocker6Terger, 170 U. S. 303; Florida Central & PeninsulaRailroad
v. Bell, 176 U. S. 321.

ARKANSAS v. KANSAS & TEXAS COAL CO. &c.

189

Opinion of the Court.

In this case the State asserted no right under the Constitution
or laws of the United States, and put forward no ground of relief derived from either. There were no averments on which
the State could have invoked the original jurisdiction of the Circuit Court under section one of the act, and that is the test of
the right of removal under section two.
The police power was appealed to, the power to protect life,
liberty and property, to conserve the public health and good
order, which always belonged to the States, and was not surrendered to the general government, or directly restrained by
the Constitution. The Fourteenth Amendment, in forbidding
a State to make or enforce any law abridging the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the United States, or to deprive any
person of life, liberty or property without due process of law,
or to deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws, did not invest Congress with power to legislate upon subjects which are within the domain of state legislation. In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545, 554. It is true that when
the police power and the commercial power come into collision,
that which is not supreme must give way to that which is supreme. But how is such collision made to appear?
Defendants argue that the Circuit Court might have properly
taken judicial notice, or did so, of the fact that the persons
whose advent was objected to as perilous to the community
could only be brought to Htuntington by way of the Indian
Territory, and also that the word "import" as used in the bill
meant to bring into from another State or foreign country; that,
therefore, "the question is fairly presented by the complaint
whether the State of Arkansas has the authority to prevent the
coal company and the railroad company from bringing into the
State over the line of this railroad, laborers from other States
or foreign countries ;" and hence that the Circuit Court had
jurisdiction. We do not agree with either premise or conclusion.
The word "import" necessarily meant bringing into the
county and town from outside their boundaries, but we do not
think, taking the whole bill together, that as here used its necessary signification was the bringing in from outside of the
State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

And as to judicial knowledge, the principle applies ",that the
right of a court to act upon what is in point of fact known to it
must be subordinate to those requirements of form and orderly
communication which regulate the mode of bringing controversies into court, and of stating and conducting them." Thayer,
Ev. ch. VII, 281.
In .fYountain iew Xfining & Xilling Co. v. KcFadden, 180
U. S. 533, which was a petition for removal, the suit was one
brought in support of an adverse claim under the Revised Statutes, sections 2325, 2326, and it had been previously decided
that such a suit was not one arising under the laws of the U~nited States in such a sense as to confer jurisdiction on the Federal
courts regardless of the citizenship of the parties. And we said:
'It is conceded by counsel on both sides that those decisions,
are controlling, unless the Circuit Court was entitled to maintain jurisdiction by taking judicial notice of the fact ' that the
Mountain View lode claim was located upon what had been or
was an Indian reservation,' and 'of the act of Congress declaring
the north half of the reservation, upon which the claim was located, to have been restored to the public domain;' notwithstanding no claim based on these facts was stated in the complaint. But the Circuit Court could not make plaintiffs' case
other than they made it by taking judicial notice of facts which
they did not choose to rely on in their pleading. The averments
brought no controversy in this regard into court, in respect of
which resort might be had to judicial knowledge." Oregon
Short Line &c. Railway v. Skottowe, 162 U. S. 490; Chappell v.
Waterworth, 155 U. S. 102; Commonwealth v. Wheeler, 162
Mass. 429; Partridgev. Strange, Plowden, 77.
But even assuming that the bill showed upon its face that the
relief sought would be inconsistent with the power to regulate
commerce, or with regulations established by Congress, or with
the Fourteenth Amendment, as contended, it would only demonstrate that the bill could not be maintained at all, and not
that the cause of action arose under the Constitution or laws of
the United States.
When Federal questions arise in cases pending in the state
courts, those courts are competent, and it is their duty, to decide

WILSON v. NELSON.
Statement of the Case.

them. If errors supervene, the remedy by writ of error is
open to the party aggrieved. -Robb v. Conno~y, 111 IU.S. 624,
637.
Decree reversed and cause remanded with a direction to remand to the state court. Costs of this court and of the Circuit Court to bepaid by the appellees and defendants.

WILSON

.

ELSON.

CERTIFICATE FROMX THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 31. Submitted April 22, 1901.-Decided December 9, 1901.
When a debtor, years before the filing of a petition in bankruptcy, gives to
a creditor an irrevocable power of attorney to confess judgment after maturity upon a promissory note of the debtor; and the creditor, within
four months before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy against the
debtor, obtains such a judgment and execution thereon; and the debtor
fails, at least five days before a sale on the execution, to vacate or discharge the judgment, or to file a voluntary petition in bankruptcy; the
judgment and execution are a preference "suffered or permitted" by
the debtor, within the meaning of the bankrupt act of July 1, 1898,
c. 541, ยง 3, cl. 3, and the debtor's failure to vacate or discharge the preference so obtained is an act of bankruptcy under that act.

THE Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit certified
to this court the following statement of facts and questions of
law:
"On February 5, 1885, Cassius B. Nelson executed and delivered to Sarah Johnstone his promissory note in writing for
the sum of $8960, payable 'five years or before after date,'
with interest at the rate of four per cent per annum until paid.
To this note was attached an irrevocable power of attorney,
duly executed by the said Nelson under his hand and seal in the
usual form, authorizing any attorney of any court of record in
his name to confess judgment thereon after maturity of the

