OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

carrier for further transportation.

Until actual delivery in such

case, the preceding carrier is not divested of his liability.
The case Pratt v. Railway Company, 95 U. S. 43, and the
other cases referred to by counsel in his argument at the bar,
have no application in the view we take of the facts. The
Pratt case was fully commented upon in Texas &c. Company
v. Clayton, 173 U. S. supra, in the course of the opinion of the
court, and it seems to be too clear for argument that the case
does not justify an inference that the facts which we have just
detailed in regard to this cotton constitute a delivery, either
constructive or actual, to the steamship company or to the pier
of that company.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the court below did not
err in directing a verdict for the plaintiffs for the value of the
cotton, and the judgment in their favor is,
Afflrmed.

SUN PRINTING AND PUBLISHING ASSOCIATION
v. MOORE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COU'r OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 49. Argued October 24, 1901.-Decided January 13, 1902.

The trustees of The Sun Association are to be charged with knowledge of
the extent of the power usually exerted by its managing editor, and must
be held to have acquiesced in the possession by him of such authority,
even though they had not expressly delegated it to him, and he is held to
have been vested with such power.
An authority to charter a yacht for the purpose of collecting news was
clearly within the corporate powers of the association.
It is impossible to assume in this case that the relation of The Sun Association to the hiring of the yacht was simply that of a security for Lord as
a hirer of the yacht on his personal account, and the two papers in evidence are in legal effect but one contract, and must be interpreted together.
As the trustees of The Sun Association must be presumed to have exercised
a supervision over the business of the corporation, they are to be charged

SUN PRINTING & PUBLISHING ASSN. u. MOORE. 643
Statement of the Case.
with knowledge of the extent of the power usually exercised by its
managing editor.
The fixing of the value of the vessel in the contract can have but one meaning that the value agreed on was to be paid in case of default in returning.
The decision of the court below that the sum due in consequence of a default in the return of the ship was not to be diminished by the amount
of the hire which had been paid at the inception of the contract, was
correct.
The naming of a stipulated sum to be paid for the non-performance of a
covenant, is conclusive upon the parties in the absence of fraud or mutual
mistake.
Parties may, in a case where the damages are of an uncertain nature, estimate and agree upon the measure of damages which may be sustained
from the breach of an agreement.
The law does not limit an owner of property from affixing his own estimate
of its value upon a sale thereof.
As the stipulation for value in this case was binding upon the parties, the
court rightly refused to consider evidence tending to show that the admitted value was excessive.
THE yacht Kanapaha, the property of the respondent Moore,
was let on April 1, 1898, for the term of two months, by a charter party, in which Chester S. Lord was recited to be the hirer,
but which was signed by him as follows: "Chester S. Lord, for
The Sun Printing and Publishing Association." At the time
Mr. Lord was, and for many years prior thereto had been, the
managing editor of The Sun newspaper, and had special charge
of the collection of news for The Smi Printing and Publishing
Association, the publisher of the newspaper aforesaid. We shall
hereafter speak of this corporation as The Sun Association and
of the newspaper as The Sun.
In the body of the charter party the hirer agreed to furnish
security, and cotemporaneously with the execution of the contract a paper was signed, which is described in the body thereof
as the "understanding or agreement of suretyship" required
by the charter party. This paper recited on its face that it was
made by "The Sun Printing and Publishing Association," and
it also was signed by Lord exactly as he had signed the charter
party. Before the time fixed in the charter party had expired,
that is to say, about the middle of May, 1898, a second charter
party and a second agreement of suretyship were executed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Counsel for Parties.

These agreements were substantially identical with the previous
ones, except that they provided for a new term to begin at the
expiration of the previous one and to continue for four months
thereafter, that ig, up to October 1, 1898.
On the execution of the first papers the yacht was delivered
to The Sun Association, was by it immediately manned, equipped
and provisioned, and one or more of its reporters were placed
on board with authority to direct the movements of the vessel,
and she was sent to Cuban waters, to be used as a dispatch boat
for the purpose of gathering news concerning the events connected with the hostilities between the United States and Spain.
Early in September, 1898, the yacht was wrecked and became
a total loss. For a breach of an alleged covenant, to return the
vessel, asserted to be contained in the charter party, this libel in
personam was filed against The Sun Association and the damages were averred to be the value of the vessel, which it was
alleged was fixed by the charter party at the sum. of $75,000.
The District Court held that the writings were contracts of The
Sun Association through Lord, its authorized agent, and were
virtually one agreement; that by them that corporation was
responsible for the non-return of the ship, whether or not the
vessel had been lost by the fault of its agents or employ~s, and
that there was a liability to pay the value of the vessel as fixed
by the charter. Construing the two writings as a whole, this
value, it was held, was subject to be diminished by the extent
of the charter hire, paid when the charter party was executed.
A judgment was entered for the sum of $65,000, with interest
and costs. 95 Fed. Rep. 485. On appeal the Circuit Court of
Appeals coincided with the District Court, except it disapproved the conclusion that the value of the vessel should be
reduced by the sum of the charter hire. The decree of the District Court was reversed, and the cause remanded with instructions to enter a decree for $75,000, with interest and costs. 101
Fed. Rep. 591. The case was then brought here by certiorari.

.Mr. James Russell Soley and .A&. Franklin Bartlett for The
Sun Printing and Publishing Association.

SUN PRINTING & PUBLISHING ASSN. v,. MOORE. 645

Opinion of the Court.

.Jlr. George Zabriskeie for Moore. 21r. J Archibald Aurray
was on his brief.
MR. JusTIcE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

All the issues involved are to be determined by ascertaining
the nature of the *writings,the obligations which arose from their
execution, and the conduct of the parties in connection therewith. It is essential, then, to bear in mind the exact form of the
writings and their text. They are annexed in the margin.1
I Memorandum of agreement made and entered into this 14th day of May,
1898, by and between William L. Moore of the city of New York, by Thomas
Manning, his agent, party of the first part, hereinafter called the owner,
and Chester S. Lord of the city of New York, party of the second part,
hereinafter called the hirer, witnesseth:
That the said William L. Moore, being the owner of the steam yacht
Kanapaha, enrolled in the Atlantic Yacht Club, agrees to let and hereby
does let, and the hirer agrees to hire and hereby does hire the said yacht
as she is now for the term of four months from the first day of June, expiring on the first day of October now next ensuing, for the sum of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00), payable on the signing of this agreement.
That the hirer will carry out the provisions of the charter party made on
the first day of April last, and will until the expiration of this contract
keep said yacht in repair and will pay all its running expenses, including,
amongst other things, uniforms, wages, provisions, pilotage, tonnage,
light-house and port dues, and any and all other dues and charges, and will
surrender said yacht with all its gear, furniture and tackle, at the expiration of this contract, to the owner or his agent, at Manning's basin, foot
26th street, South Brooklyn, New York, in as good condition as at the start,
fair wear and tear from reasonable and proper use only excepted, and free
and clear of any and all indebtedness, liens or charges of any kind or of
any description.
That the hirer will use the said steam yacht as a yacht only, and will under no circumstances use her to carry freight, merchandise or passengers
for hire, nor do anything in contravention of its status as a yacht, nor in
the sailing or navigating of the same do anything in contravention of the
laws of the United States or of any foreign country.
That for the purpose of this charter the value of the yacht shall be considered and taken at the sum of seventy-five thousand dollars (,$75,000.00),
and the said hirer shall procure security or guarantee to and for the owner
in the sum of seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000.00), to secure any and
all losses and damages which may occur to said boat or its belongings,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

It would seem to be necessary on the threshold to ascertain
whether there was both a principal contract and an accessory
contract of suretyship. The two writings are both signed by
which may be sustained by the owner by reason of such loss or damage
and by reason of the breach of any of the terms or conditions of this contract.
That in the event of the failure of the hirer to return and surrender the
said yacht to the owner as hereinbefore provided, the hirer shall be
charged demurrage and shall pay demurrage to the owner at the rate of
five hundred dollars (.S500.00) per day for each and every day's detention.
The hirer shall be liable and responsible for any and all loss and damage
to hull, machinery, equipment, tackle, spars, furniture or the like.
That the hirer during the-continuance of this agreement shall at all times
and at his own cost and expense, keep the said yacht, its hull, machinery,
tackle, spars, furniture, gear, boats and the like, in repair.
In witness whereof the parties hereto have hereunto set their hands and
seals the day and year first above written.
THOMiAS MANNING,
CHESTER S. LORD,

For The Sun Printingand Publishing Association.
Whereas by agreement or charter party dated May 14th, 1898, William L.
Moore, of the city of New York, hereinafter called the owner, did or is
about to hire or charter unto Chester S. Lord, of the city of New York,
hereinafter called the hirer, the steam yacht Kanapaha, enrolled in the Atlantic Yacht Club, as will more fully and at large appear by a copy of said
agreement or charter party hereunto annexed and hereby made part hereof.
Now at the request of the said hirer and for valuable consideration received from him, and in consideration of one dollar ($1.00) from the said
owner received, and receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged:
We, The Sun Printing and Publishing Company, of the city of New York,
for ourselves and each of us, our successor or successors, and for each of
our executors or administrators, enter into the following understanding
and agreement of suretyship:
First. That the said hirer will well and faithfully perform and fulfill
everything in and by the said annexed agreement on his part to be kept
and performed.
Second. That we expressly waive and dispense with notice of any demand, suit or action at law against the hirer, and expressly waive any and
all notice of non-performance of the terms of said annexed agreement on
the part of the hirer to be kept and performed. The intention of this understanding being to hold us primarily liable under the terms of the annexed agreement.
Third. That our liability hereunto shall in no case exceed the sum of
seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000.00.)

SUN PRINTING & PUBLISHING ASSN. v. MOORE. 647
Opinion of the Court.

Lord in exactly the same character. Judging, by the signatures alone, it is impossible to conceive of two contracts, the
one principal and the other accessory thereto, as, in the nature
of things, if the first evidenced the obligations of the one who
hired and the second manifested the agreement of the same person to fulfill his own duty resulting from the hiring, there could
be no accessory contract of suretyship, since both documents
but expressed the covenants of the same person relating to
one-and the same transaction. There is, however, this difference
between the two papers. In the body of the first, "Chester S.
Lord" is recited to be the hirer, whilst in the body of the second
paper it is recited that it is made by The Sun Printing and
Publishing Association.
The first question to be determined is, assuming for the present that Lord had authority to bind The Sun Association, Was
the first document the individual contract of Lord or that of
The Sun Association?
The rule of law to be applied in the determination of this
question is thus expressed in Whitney v. TFyman, (1880) 101
U. S. 392, 395:
"Where the question of agency in making a contract arises,
there is a broad line of distinction between instruments under
seal and stipulations in writing not under seal, or by parol. In
the former case the contract muist be in the name of the principal, must be under seal, and must purport to be his deed and
not the deed of the agent covenanting for him. Stanton v.
Camp, 4 Barb. (N. Y.) 2741.
In witness whereof we have hereunto set our hands this 14th day of May,
1898.
CHESTER S.

LORD,

For Sun Printing and Publishing Association.
ss
State of New York,
County of New York, S
On this 14th day of May, 1898, before me personally appeared Chester S.
Lord, to me known and known to me to be the managing editor of The Sun
Printing and Publishing Company, and who duly acknowledged that he executed the above undertaking for and on behalf of his firm, under authority
of said company, as its act and deed.

A. H.
[SEAL]

BRADLEY,

Notary Public, New York.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

"In the latter cases the question is always one of intent;
and the court, being untrammeled by any other consideration,
is bound to give it effect. As the meaning of the lawmaker is
the law, so the meaning of the contracting parties is the agreement. Words are merely the symbols they employ to manifest
their purpose that it maybe carried into execution. If the contract be unsealed and the meaning clear, it matters not how it
is phrased nor how it is signed, whether by the agent for the
principal or with the name of the principal by the agent, or
otherwise.
"The intent developed is alone material, and when that is
ascertained it is conclusive. Where the principal is disclosed
and the agent is known to be acting as such, the latter cannot
be made personally liable unless he agreed to be so."
Now, while Lord is referred to in the body of the first writing as an individual, he signed the agreement ",for The Sun
.Printing and Publishing Association." Clearly this was a disclosure of the principal, and an apt manner of expressing an intent to bind such principal. Bradstreet v. Baker, 14 Rhode
Island, 546, 549; Tucker Manufacturing Company v. Fair-

banks, 98 Ml\ass. 101.
It results that the first paper or charter party manifested the
intent to bind The Sun Association as hirer, if Lord possessed
the authority which he assumed to exercise, and consequently
that the two papers are in legal effect but one contract, must
be interpreted together, and the obligations of the parties arising from them be enforced according to their plain import, seeking always to give effect to the intention of the parties.
It is not denied that Lord was in some respects the agent of
the corporation; but it is asserted that he had not the power
or authority to make a contract of the character here involved.
The charter of The Sun Association provided for no other officers to manage its concerns but a board of trustees. In the
by-laws provision was made for the election of a president and
secretary, whose duties were not prescribed, except as to the
signing of certificates of stock and the transferring of stock
on the books of the company. An examining committee as
also an executive committee were provided for in article VII

SUN PRINTING & PUBLISHING ASSN. v. MOORE. 649
Opinion of the Court.

of the by-laws, as amended June 27, 1893, a copy of which is
excerpted in the margin.' The provisions relating to such
committees, however, were omitted in the by-laws as amended
June 28, 1898.
At the time of the hiring of the Kanapaha, Mr. Paul Dana
was the president of The Sun Association, he having been
elected to that office on October 26, 1897. Long prior to the
last-mentioned date, however, from about 1879, Lord had been
the managing editor of The Sun. As such, the evidence establishes, he exercised an unlimited discretionary authority in
the collection of news for The Sun, making all pecuniary and
other arrangements in respect thereto. Prior to the hiring of
the Kanapaha he had, solely on his own volition, hired vessels
for the use of The Sun for periods of a week at a time. By
whom he was vested with this authority does not appear with
certainty, but in the absence of direct evidence we are authorized to presume that the authority was conferred, either directly or indirectly, by the trustees of the association in whom
was lodged the power to manage the concerns of the company.
United States v. Dandridge,1827, 12 Wheat. 64. In the Dandridge case, speaking through Mr. Justice Story, the court said
(p. 69):
"By the general rules of evidence, presumptions are continually made in cases of private persons of acts even of the most
solemn nature, when those acts are the natural result or necessary accompaniment of other circumstances."
After illustrating the application of the principle to cases of
public duty and many others, it was said (p. 70):
1

The executive committee shall have the supervision of all the property
of the association contained in their building, and of the building itself.
It shall be their duty to rent such portion of the same as is not required
for the use of the association, and to see that all necessary alterations and
repairs are faithfully and economically executed; but no expenditure shall
be made by the committee exceeding the sum of five hundred dollars unless by authoity of the trustees. They shall report their doings to the
trustees at each regular meeting.
It shall be the duty of the examining committee to examine the accounts
of the association, and to inquire into both the receipts and disbursements
of money. They shall report to the trustees at each regular meeting.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

"The same presumptions are, we think, applicable to corporations. Persons acting publicly as officers of the corporation
are to be presumed rightfully in office; acts done by the corporation, which presuppose the existence of other acts to make
them legally operative, are presumptive proofs of the latter.
Grants and proceedings beneficial to the corporation are presunned to be accepted; and slight acts on their part, which can
be reasonably accounted for only upon the supposition of such
acceptance, are admitted as presumptions of the fact. If officers of the corporation openly exercise a power which presupposes a delegated authority for the purpose, and other corporate acts show that the corporation must have contemplated the
legal existence of such authority, the acts of such officers will
be deemed rightful, and the delegated authority will be presumed. If a person acts notoriously as cashier of a bank, and
is recognized by the directors, or by the corporation, as an existing officer, a regular appointment will be presumed; and
his acts, as cashier, will bind the corporation, although no
written proof is or can be adduced of his appointment. In
short, we think, that the acts of artificial persons afford the
same presumptions as the acts of natural persons. Each affords
presumptions, from acts done, of what must have preceded them,
as matters of right, or matters of duty."
See, also, Jacksonville &o. lRailway Company v. Hooper,(1896)

160 U. S. 514, 519, and cases cited.
As said in Mining Co. v. Anglo-California Bank, 104 U. S.

19, speaking through Mr. Justice Hlarlan:
"An agency may be established by proof of the course of
business between the parties themselves; by the usages and
practice which the company may have permitted to grow up
in its business, and by the knowledge which the board, charged
with the duty of controlling and conducting the transactions
and property of the corporation, had, or must be presumed to
have had, of the acts and doings of its subordinates in and
about the affairs of the corporation."
As, therefore, the trustees of The Sun Association must be
presumed to have exercised a supervision over the business of
the corporation, they are to be charged with knowledge of the

SUN PRINTING & PUBLISHING ASSN. v. MOORE. 651
Opinion of the Court.

extent of the power usually exerted by its managing editor, and
must be held to have acquiesced in the possession by him of
such authority, even though they had not expressly delegated
it to him.
It being then within the scope of the general authority possessed by Lord to hire the yacht, the contention that in its exercise he must be assumed to have been without right to incur
an absolute liability for the return of the vessel or become responsible for the value thereof, and to stipulate as to such value,
is without merit. As Lord was charged with the full control
of the business of collecting news and impliedly vested with
power to enter into contracts in respect thereto, he was, in effect, a general officer of the corporation as to such matters,
and it is well settled that the president or other general officer
of a corporation has power primafacie to do any act which
the directors or trustees of the corporation could authorize or
ratify.

Oakes v. Cattaraugus Water Company, 143 N. Y. 430,

436, and cases cited. The burden was on The Sun Association
to establish that Lord did not possess the authority he assumed
to exercise in executing the contracts. Patteson v. Robinson,
116 N. Y. 193, 200, and cases cited. As the trustees of The
Sun Association were unrestrained by the charter, and might
have authorized Lord to execute the writings in question, and
the association failed to rebut theprimafaie presumption, he
must be held to have been vested with such power.
The argument that if it be granted that the writings embodied
an absolute obligation to return and a stipulation as to value in
the event of non-return, such conditions were so extraordinary
that it must be assumed that authority had not been conferred
to agree to them, is equally unfounded. The proposition must
rest on the assumption that to charter a yacht upon the conditions referred to was ultra vires of the corporation, which, as
we have seen is not correct. Certainly an authority to charter
a yacht for the purpose of collecting news was clearly within
the corporate powers of The Sun Association; the mere signing
of a charter party in execution of such a contract was not illegal,
nor can it, we think with any plausibility, be said where, in a
case like this, the vessel chartered was to be manned, equipped

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

and operated by the hirer, to be taken far from her home port,
in time of threatened or actual war, on a presumably hazardous
venture, that the agreement to absolutely return or, in default,
to pay a fixed value, was so beyond the means incidental to the
exercise of the power to charter as to cause the act to be beyond
the corporate power. For, if the corporation could have done
these things, the agent having the broad powers possessed by
Lord had a similar right.
But the case in this regard does not depend 'upon legal presumptions arising from the general course of business in other
matters, for the following reasons: The evidence clearly justifies
the inference that the president and secretary and the other
trustees of The Sun Association knew that Lord had exercised
the authority to hire the vessel in question ; that the possession
of the vessel was pursuant to a contract, and that some obligation had been entered into for its safe return. Mr. Hitchcock
was one of the four trustees and the secretary of The Sun Association. It was his duty to affix the seal of the corporation
to instruments, directed by the trustees, to be executed in a
formal manner. He was requested by Lord to execute the writings in question, but he declined to do so. The reasons actuating him in refusing do not appear; but, as he testified that he
had nothing to do with the collection of news, it may well be
that he felt he could not execute formal documents in a matter
not within his department. He does not, however, appear to
have regarded the signing of such documents by Lord as improper; for he subsequently, in conjunction with the business
manager, who was also a trustee of The Sun Assdciation, signed
a check on behalf of the corporation for a $10,000 payment, as
recited on the books of the association, for "charter Kanapaha
to October 1.
President Dana testified that he was not consulted in regard
to the drawing of the papers, and did not in April or May, 1898,
know of their execution. He, however, was aware in those
months that dispatch boats were being used by The Sun to obtain news in regard to the progress of events in Cuban waters,
such information having been acquired from several sources, including Mr. Lord. President Dana testified that Lord had

SUN PRINTING & PUBLISHING ASSN. v. MOORE. 653
Opinion of the Court.

charge of the getting of information as to the progress of events
in Cuban waters and in connection with the war; that he had
talked with him about the matter early in April, 1898, and had
inquired if his arrangements were satisfactory. He further testified that if the arrangements made were satisfactory to Lord,
they were to the witness, and that that was understood in The
Sun office and by the other trustees. Lord attempted no concealment of his actions in respect to the hiring of the Kanapaha.
The payments for the hire of the boat, the expenses connected
with its management, sundry premiums paid out of the moneys
of The Sun Association for insurance upon the yacht, in the sum
of nearly $60,000, covering the first five months of the use of
the vessel -the later policies expiring only a few days before
the loss of the ship - were entered in the books of The Sun.
Besides, the association received, under arrangements made by
its business manager and trustee, Laffan, money from various
newspapers for accommodations furnished to their reporters on
board the Kanapaha. All these matters must be presumed to
have been brought to the notice of the board, whose duty it was
to manage the concerns of the association. The deductions
fairly to be drawn from them are susceptible only of the construction that full discretion in the premises had been vested in
the managing editor. The strongest possible confirmation of
this arises from the fact that Lord, who, under oath, acknowledged when executing the alleged agreement of suretyship, that
he possessed the authority to do so, and who was at the time of
the trial below in the service of the defendant and able to be
produced in court, was not called to the witness stand.
The contract then being that of The Sun Association, made
by its agent, duly empowered to that end, and inuring to its
benefit, we are not concerned with the questions of ratification
discussed at bar, and we are thus brought to consider the obligations which the contract imposed. And, before passing from
the subject just considered, it is to be observed that the facts
to which we have referred, if there be ambiguity in the
writings, confirm the conclusion that the two writings embodied
but one contract made by the agent of The Sun in its behalf
and for its benefit. This is manifest, because the taking charge

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

of the ship by the employ~s of the association, the payment of
all the expenses of the vessel, the payment of the rent, the
charging of the amount thereof in the books of the association,
the use of the vessel for the purposes of the association, the receipt of revenues derived from such use, and the other facts
previously stated, when considered together, cause it to be impossible in reason to assume that the relation of The Sun Association to the hiring was simply that of a security for Lord as
a hirer of the yacht on his personal account.
It is elementary that, generally speaking, the hirer in a simple
contract of bailment is not responsible for the failure to return
the thing hired, when it has been lost or destroyed without his
fault. Such is the universal principle. This rule was tersely
stated by Mr Justice Bradley in Clark v. United States, 95 U.
S. 539, where it was said (p. 542):
" A bailee for hire is only responsible for ordinary diligence
and liable for ordinary negligence in the care of the property
bailed. This is not only the common law, but the general law
on the subject. See Jones, Bailm. p. 88; Story, Bailm. secs.
398, 399 ; Domat, Lois Civiles, lib. 1, tit. 4, sec. 3, pars. 3, 4; 1
Bell, Com. pp. 481, 483, 7th ed."
But it is equally true that where by a contract of bailment
the hirer has either expressly or by fair implication assumed
the absolute obligation to return, even although the thing hired
has been lost or destroyed without his fault, the contract embracing such liability is controlling and must be enforced according to its terms. In Strum v. Boker, (1893) 150 U. S.312,
both the elementary principles above stated were clearly expressed by the court, through Mr. Justice Jackson. It was
said (p. 330):
"The complainant's common law responsibility as bailee exempted him from liability for loss of the consigned goods arising from inevitable accident. A bailee may, however, enlarge
his legal responsibility by contract, express orfairly implied,
and render himself liable for the loss or destruction of the goods
committed to his care-the bailment or compensation to be received therefor being a sufficient consideration for such an undertaking."

SUN .PRINTING & PUBLISHING ASSN. v. MOORE. 655
Opinion of the Court.

This statement of the binding effect of contracts upon those
who enter into them was, in substance, but a reiteration of the
principle clearly announced in Dei.mott v. Jones, (1865) 2 Wall.
1, where it was said:
"It is a well-settled rule of law that if a party by his contract charge himself with an obligation possible to be performed,
he must make it good, unless its performance is rendered impossible by the act of God, the law or the other party. Unforeseen difficulties, however great, will not excuse him."
Among the cases approvingly referred to in Dermott v. Tonas
were Bullook v. Dommitt, 6 T. R. 650, and Bqecknock Co. v.
Pritchard,Ib. 750, holding that an agreement to keep the
property in repair created a binding obligation to rebuild and
restore the property, even though its destruction had been
caused by inevitable accident.
It is to be observed in passing that the principle sustained by
these last mentioned authorities is supported by many adjudications. Young v. Leary, 135 N. Y. 569, 578, and cases cited.
We approach, then, the contract for the purpose of determining whether by express agreement or by fair implication it put
the positive duty on the hirer to surrender the vessel at the expiration of the charter and to be responsible for the value, even
although impossibility of return was brought about without
his fault. The obligation was expressly imposed upon the hirer
to keep "said yacht in repair and to pay all its running expenses, and to surrender said yacht with all its gear, furniture
and tackle at the expiration of this contract to the owner or
in as good condition as at the start, fair
his agent . .
wear and tear from reasonable and proper use only excepted."
Not only this, but the charter party contained the further provision that the hirer "shall be liable and responsible for any
and all loss and damage to hull, machinery, equipment, tackle,
spars, furniture or the like." This provision is immediately
followed by a reiteration of the duty to repair, previously stated,
by again stipulating "that the hirer during the continuance of
this agreement shall at all times and at his own cost and expense keep the said yacht, its hull, machinery, tackle, spars, furniture, gears, boats and the like, in repair."
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Pausing for a moment to consider the foregoing stipulations
it is difficult to conceive how language could more aptly express the absolute obligation, not only to repair and keep in
good order to the end of the hiring and to return, but, moreover, to be responsible for any and all loss and damage to the
vessel, her fixtures and appointments. These stipulations seem
to us to leave no doubt of the absolute liability to return; in
other words, of the putting of the risk of damage or loss of the
vessel upon the hirer. But if there could be doubt after considering the provisions just above referred to, such doubt is
dispelled when it is considered that the contract proceeds to
say that "for the purpose of this charter the value of the yacht
shall be considered and taken at the sum of $75,000. And the
said hirer shall procure security or guarantee to and for the
owner" in the sum stated, "to secure any and all loss and
damage which may occur to said boat or its belongings which
may be sustained by the owner by reason of such loss or damage and by reason of the breach of any of the terms or conditions of this contract." In other words, having provided for
all repairs, having stipulated absolutely for the return of the
vessel in full repair, having put the risk of any and all loss on
the hirer, the contract then in express terms fixes the value of
the vessel, and makes provision for security to protect against
any and all loss or damage sustained by a failure of the hirer
to fulfill each and all of the positive obligations which the contract imposed.
Concluding, as we do, that by the charter party the absolute
obligation to return was placed on the hirer, and that by that
contract the risk was hence cast upon him of loss, even be it
without his fault, we are led to determine the amount which
the owner of the yacht is entitled to recover.
Before passing to this question, however, we remark that we
have not entered into any extended review of the case of
Young v. Leary, 135 N .Y. 569, and the conflict of view asserted in argument to exist between the ruling in that case and
that made in Steele v. Buck, 61 Illinois, 343; Drake v. Mhite,

117 Massachusetts, 10, and Harvey v. _furray, 136 Massachusetts, 377. We have not done so, because, as we have seen in

SUN PRINTING & PUBLISHING ASSN. v. MOORE. 657
Opinion of the Court.

the opinion in Y-oung v. leary, the absolute duty to repair and
keep in'repair was conceded to import an obligation to restore
the property, even if the impossibility of doing so was brought
about without the fault of the bailee. Whatever differences
there may be, if any, in the opinions in the cases referred to,
arises, not because they expound a discordant view of the law
of bailment, but from different applications made of that law
to the contract which was under consideration in the particular
case. But not only the legal principles announced in the cases
referred to, but also the application made of such principles in
each and all of the cases, render it necessary to construe a contract like the one we have before us as meaning that which we
find it to mean.
Recurring to the amount of liability, it appears that tlere
are two inquiries involved in deciding it; the first, was the obligation imposed by the first writing to pay the agreed value of
the vessel in the event of her non-return, and second, if yes,
did any modification thereof arise from the second writing?
The answer to the first inquiry is afforded by what we have
already said in discussing the nature of the obligations assumed
by the hirer. As they were to return the vessel in any event,
and in default to make good any and all loss arising from a
failure to return, the fixing of the value of the vessel can have
but one meaning, that is, that the value agreed on was to be
paid in case of default in returning. Unless the agreement as
to the value meant this it had no import whatever, and its
presence in the contract is inexplicable. That the obligation
to return or pay the agreed value was not modified by the
second writing we think is clear.
In that writing it is provided that The Sun Association
bound itself that the hirer would faithfully fulfill and perform
all the obligations expressed in the previous writing. Certainly,
because of the contract that all the previous agreements are to
be fulfilled, it cannot be that some of them were destroyed.
But proceeding to make its significance if possible clearer, the
second writing adds that the intention of the parties to it is to
hold The Sun Association "primarily liable " for the obligations
VOL.

CLxxxi--42

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

created by the prior writing. To stipulate primary liability
for prior obligations cannot be so construed as to destroy them.
True, the provisions just referred to are followed by the
stipulation that "all our liability hereunto shall, in no case,
exceed the sum of $75,000." This cannot mean that the obligations expressly assumed were destroyed, but that in case
they were not fulfilled, the damage brought about by each and
every breach should not exceed $75,000. The contrary cannot be said without holding that a provision, which was manifestly intended to add sanction to the obligations, in effect
abrogated them. And the import of the clause under consideration is demonstrated by the provision in the first writing, by
which it was agreed that the second paper should be signed.
The provision is, "The said hirer shall procure security or
guarantee, in and for The Sun, in the sum of $75,000, to secure
any and all loss and damage which may occur to said boat, or
its belongings, which may be sustained by the owner, by reason
of such loss or damage and by reason of the breach of any of
the terms or conditions of the contract."
The second writing unquestionably stipulated a penalty for
the performance of each and all the obligations, but, fixing a
penalty, in case of a default, did not extinguish them. The
meaning of the provision becomes quite clear when all the provisions are taken into view in their proper connection. They
all naturally divide themselves into two classes, the one relating to the payment of the hire, the payment of the expenses of
the operation of the vessel, the making of repairs, etc.-from
which we may eliminate the hire, as it was to be paid on the
execution of the contract; and the other to the duty to return,
or pay in default, the value agreed on. We say they naturally
so divide themselves, because in no reasonable probability could
a default in both cases simultaneously exist. Thus, if the vessel was not returned and the owner got the value as fixed in
the contract, he could suffer no loss for any default of the hirer
in failing to pay for repair, etc., or for a breach of the covenant to pay the running expenses of the vessel, as no personal
liability therefor could attach to him. And in the event of a
return of the vessel, lessened in value by the failure to repair,

SUN PRINTING & PUBLISHING ASSN. v. MOORE. 659
Opinion of the Court.

or burdened with charges, because of default in paying running
expenses, no loss could come to the owner if he was indemnified up to the extent of $75,000, the value of the vessel, which,
it will be seen, was, hence in any probable event, the maximum
sum of liability which the parties supposed might result from
a breach of the covenants contained in the charter party.
The contract arising from the two writings having this import, the court below correctly decided that the sum due, as a
consequence of a default in the return of the ship, was not to be
diminished by the amount of the hire which had been paid at
the inception of the contract. To have otherwise ruled would
have destroyed in part the express agreement that the failure
to return should be compensated by the payment of the agreed
value. Such would have been its inevitable result, as it would
have reduced the sum due for the default in not returning the
ship, by crediting the hirer with the amount of the hire he had
paid without default on an independent and distinct liability.
The foregoing considerations are adequate to dispose of the
case, if it be that the rights of the parties are to be administered
according to the contract into which they voluntarily entered.
In substance, however, it is pressed with much earnestness and
sought to be supported by copious reference to authority that
the intent of the contracting parties should not be given effect
to, because it is our duty to disregard the contract and substitute
our will or our conception of what the parties should have done
for that which they did plainly do. This contention thus arises.
Upon the trial, The Sun Association introduced some evidence
tending to show that the value of the yacht was a less sum than
$75,000, and it claimed that the recovery should be limited to such
actual damage as might be shown by the proof. The trial judge,
however, refused to hear further evidence offered on this subject,
and in deciding the case disregarded it altogether. The rulings
in this particular were made the subject of exception and error
was assigned in relation thereto in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
That court held that the value fixed in the contract was controlling, especially in view of the fact that a yacht had no market
value.
The complaint, that error in this regard was committed, is

OCTOBER TERM. 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

thus stated in argument : "The naming of a stipulated sum to
be paid for the non-performance of a covenant is not conclusive
upon the parties merely in the absence of fraud or mutual mistake; that, if the amount is disproportionedto the loss, the court
has the right and the duty to disregard the particular expressions
of the parties and to consider the amount named merely as a
penalty, even though it is specifically said to be liquidated
damages." iNow it is to be conceded that the proposition thus
contended for finds some support in expressions contained in
some of the opinions in the cases cited to sustain it. Indeed, the
contention but embodies the conception of the doctrine of penalties and liquidated damages expressed in the reasoning of the
opinions in Chicago House -Z'eckingCo. v. United States, (1901)
106 Fed. Rep. 385, 389, and Gay 3lfanufacturing Co. v. Camp,
(1895) 25 U. S. App. 134, 65 Fed. Rep. 794, 68 Fed. Rep. 67,
viz., that "where actual damages can be assessed from testimony," the court must disregard any stipulation fixing the
amount and require proof of the damage sustained. We think
the asserted doctrine is wrong in principle, was unknown to the
common law, does not prevail in the courts of England at the
present time, and it is not sanctioned by the decisions of this
court. And we shall, as briefly as we can consistently with
clearness, proceed to so demonstrate.
At common law prior to the statute of 8 & 9 William III, c.
11, in actions "upon a bond, or on any penal sum, for non-performance of any covenants or agreements, contained in any indenture, deed, or writing," judgment, when entered for the
plaintiff, was for the amount of the penalty, as of course.
Watts v. Camors, 115 U. S. 360; Story, Eq. Jur. sec. 1311.
Equity, however, was accustomed to relieve in cases of penalties annexed to bonds and other instruments, the design of which
was to secure the due fulfillment of a principal obligation.
Story, Eq. Jur. sec. 1313. The effect of the passage of the
statute was to restrict suitors in actions for penalties to a collection of the actual damages sustained. As a result, also,
courts of law were thereafter frequently under the necessity of
determining whether or not an agreed sum stipulated in a bond

SUN PRINTING & PUBLISHING ASSN. v. MOORE. 661
Opinion of the Court.

or other writing to be paid, in the event of a breach of some
condition, was in reality a penalty or liquidated damdges.
Of course, courts of common law, merely by reason of the
statute of 8 & 9 William III, referred to, did not acquire the
power to give relief in cases of contract, where a court of equity
would not have exercised a similar powerA Now courts of equitydo not grant relief in cases of liquidated damages-that is, cases
"when the parties have agreed that, in case one party shall do
a stipulated act or omit to do it, the other party shall receive a
certain sum, as the just, appropriate and conventional amount
of the damages sustained by such act or onission." Story, Eq.
Jur. sec. 1318. And, as long ago as 1768, Lord Mansfield, in
Zowe v. Peers,4 Burr. 2225, said-italics in original (p. 2228):
"Courts of equity will relieve againsta penalty, upon a compensation ; but where the covenant is to pay a partibular liquidated
sum, a court of equity can not make a new covenant for a man;
nor is there any room for compensation or relief." Commenting
upon the judgment of Lord Eldon in one of -the leading cases on
the subject of liquidated damages, (Astley v. TMeldon, 2 Bos. &
Pul. 346, 350,) Jessel, Master of the Rolls, in IFallisv. Smith,
21 Ch. D. 243, 256, said (p. 260):
"He perfectly well knew that whatever had been the doctrine
of equity at one time, it was not then the doctrine of equity to
give relief on the ground that agreements were opprgssve where
the parties were of full age and at arm's length. It is very
likely, and I believe it is true historically, that the doctrine of
equity did arise from a general notion that these acts were oppressive. At all events, long before his time, it had been well
settled in equity that equity did relieve from forfeiture for nonpayment of money, and I think I may say, in modern times,
from nothing else."
The doctrine of equity as respects the withholding of or granting relief against a contract because of inadequacy of consideration, illustrates the conservative disposition of equity not to interfere unnecessarily with the contracts of individuals. Equity
declines to grant relief because of inadequacy of price, or any
other inequality in the bargain; the bargain must be so uncon-

OCTOBER TERI

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

scionable as to warrant the presumption of fraud, imposition or
undue influence. Story, Eq. Jur. sees. 2-4, 245.
Whilst the courts of the United States, in actions at law, undoubtedly possess the power conferred upon the courts of common law by the statute of 8 & 9 William III, and whilst
recognition of such power was embodied in the judiciary act of
18T, reproduced in section 961 of the Revised Statutes, the
duty of such courts to give effect to the plainly expressed will
of contracting parties is as imperatively necessary now as it was
at common law after the adoption of the English statute, as will
be made manifest by a reference to some of the adjudications
of this court.
The decisions of this court on the doctrine of liquidated damages and penalties lend no support to the contention that parties may not 1onafide, in a case where the damages are of an
uncertain nature, estimate and agree upon the measure of damages which maybe sustained from the breach of an agreement.
On the contrary, this court has consistently maintained the
principle that the intention of the parties is to be arrived at by
a proper construction of the agreement made between them,
and that whether a particular stipulation to pay a sum of money
is to be treated as a penalty, or as an agreed ascertainment of
damages, is to be determined by the contract, fairly construed, it
being the duty of the court always, where the damages are uncertain and have been liquidated by an agreement, to enforce
the contract. Thus, Chief Justice Marshall, in Tayloe v. Sandiford, 7 Wheat. 11, although deciding that the particular contract under consideration provided for the payment of a penalty,
clearly manifested that this result was reached by an interpretation of the contract itself. He said (p. 17):
"In general, a sum of money in gross, to be
paid for the nonperformance of aft agreement, is considered as a penalty, the
legal operation of which is, to cover the damages which the
party, in whose favor the stipulation is made, may have sustained
from the breach of contract by the opposite party. It will not,
of course, be considered as liquidated damages; and it will be
incumbent on the party who claims them as such to show
that they were so considered by the contracting parties. Much

SUN PRINTING & PUBLISHING ASSN. v. MOORE. 663
Opinion of the Court.

-

stronger is the inference in favor of its being a penalty, when
it is expressly reserved as one. The parties themselves denominate it a penalty; and it would require very strong evidence
to authorize the court to say that their own words do not express their own intention. These writings appear to have been
drawn on great deliberation; and no slight conjecture would
justify the court in saying that the parties were mistaken in the
import of the terms they have employed."
And, after having thus established that on the face of the contract it stipulated a penalty and not liquidated damages, the
opinion proceeded to refute the construction relied on to sustain the contrary view that the contract manifested the intention
to assess liquidated damages. In connection therewith the
Chief Justice observed (p. 18):
"The plaintiff in error relies on the case of Fletche' v. Dycke,
reported in 2 T. R. 32, in which an agreement was entered into
to do certain work within a certain time, and if the work should
not be done within the time specified, ' to forfeit and pay the
sum of 10 for every week,' until it should be completed.
"But the words ' to forfeit and pay' are not so strongly indicative of a stipulation in the nature of a penalty, as the word
'penalty' itself; and the agreement to pay a specified sum
weekly during the failure of the party to perform the work partakes much more of the character of liquidated damages than
the reservation of a sum in gross."
In Van Buren v. .Digges, 11 How. 461, also construing a
building contract, it was said (p. 477):
"The clause of the contract providing for the forfeiture of
ten per centum on the amount of the contract price, upon failure to complete the work by a given day, cannot properly be
regarded as an agreement or settlement of liquidated damages.
The term ' forfeiture ' imports a penalty; it has no necessary or
natural connection with the measure or degree of injury which
may result from a breach of contract, or from an imperfect performance. It implies an absolute infliction, regardless of the
nature and extent of the causes by which it is superinduced.
Unless, therefore,it shall have been expressly adoptedand declared
by the parties to be a measure of injury or compensation, it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

never taken as such by courts ofijustice, who leave it to be enforced
where this can be done in its real character,viz., that of a yoenalty." [Italics not in original.]
See, also, Quinn v. United States, 99 U. S. 30 ; Clarkv. Barnard, 108 U. S. 436, 454; lfatts v. Camors, 115 U. S. 353, 360;
Bignall v. Gould, 119 U. S.495. The last cited case illustrates
the character of disproportion apparent on the face of a contract
which has influenced a court when endeavoring to ascertain the
meaning of parties to a contract in a stipulation for the payment
of a designated sum for the breach of a condition. There the
penal sum was $10,000, several breaches of the conditions of the
bond might be committed, to each of which the stipulated sum
would be applicable, and one such breach might be the failure
to obtain a release of a claim of but ten dollars.
The courts in England, as already intimated, consistently
maintain the right of individuals, when contracting with each
other, to estimate the value of property or otherwise determine
the quantum of damages for a breach of an agreement, where
the damage is of an uncertain nature. Irving v. iManning,
(1847) 1 II. L. Cas. 287, 307, 308; Ranger v. Great W'estern
Ry. Co., (1854) 5 Ib. 72, 94, 104, 118; Dignech v. Corlett, (1858)
12 Mloore's P. 0. 199, 229 ; Lord Elphinstanev. .Aonkland-ron
& Coal Co., (1886) App. Cas. 332, 345, 3,6 ; Price v. Green,
(1847) 16 M. & W. 346, 354.
We content ourselves with a few brief excerpts from some of
the decisions just referred t-Q.. In Ranger v. Great Western
Railway Co., in the course of his 6pinion Lord Cranworth said
(p. 94):
"There is no doubt that where the doing of any particular
act is secured by a penalty, a court of equity is, in general,
anxious to treat the penalty as being merely a mode of securing
the due performance of the act contracted to be done, and not
as a sum of money really intended to be paid. On the other
hand, it is certainly open to parties who are entering into contracts to stipulate that, on failure to perform what has been
agTeed to be done, a fixed sum shall be paid by way of compensation."
In Lord Elyhinstone v. 2-onkland Iron & Coal Co., (1886)

SUN PRINTING & PUBLISHING ASSN. o. MOORE. 665
Opinion of the Court.

App. Cas. 332-a Scotch appeal-Lord Fitzgerald, in the course
of his opinion, said (p. 436):
"I am not aware that there is any enactment in force in Scotland corresponding to our statute of 8 and 9 Win. III, c. 11, s. 8;
nor does the Scotch law seem to have required such aid. We
may take it, then, that by the law of Scotland the parties to
any contract may fix the damages to result from a breach at a
sum estimated as liquidated damages, or they may enforce the
performance of the stipulations of the agreement by a penalty.
"In the first instance, the pursuerdis, in case of a breach, entitled to recover the estimated sum as pactional damages, irrespective of the actual loss sustained. In the other, the penalty
is to cover all the damages actually sustained, but it does not
estimate them, and the amount of loss (not, however, exceeding
the penalty) is to be ascertained in the ordinary way. In determining the character of these stipulations we endeavor to
ascertain what the parties must reasonably be presumed to have
intended, having regard to the subject-matter, and certain rules
have been laid down as judicial aids."
In I'ving v. -Yanning, (1847) 1 H. L. Cas. 287, it was recognized that a policy of assurance was a contract of indemnity,
but it was declared that in a valued policy the agreed value was
conclusive, and each party must be held to have conclusively
admitted that the sum fixed by agreement should be that which
the other was entitled to receive in case of a total loss. In that
case the opinion of the judges was delivered by Mr. Justice Patterson, and we excerpt from the opinion of that justice in Pr'ic
v. Green, (1847) 16 M. & W. 346, on error from the Court of
Exchequer, as follows (p. 354):
"The 5000 is expressly declared by the covenant to be ' as
and by way of liquidated damages, and not of penalty.' It
is a sum named in respect of the breach of this one covenant
only, and the intention of the parties is clear and unequivocal.
The courts have indeed held that, in some cases, the words
liquidated damages' are not to be taken according to their obvious meaning; but those cases are all where the doing or omitting to do several things of various degrees of importance is
secured by the sum named, and, notwithstanding the language

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

used, it is plain from the whole instrument that the intention
was different."
In WVallis v. Smith, (1882) 21 Ch. D. 243, the leading cases
in England on the subject of penalties and liquidated damages
were commented upon by the Court of Appeal. Jessel, Master
of the Rolls, classified the decisions and dicta on the subject.
His summary will be found in the margin, 1 and measuring the
contract in this case, by the rules which are embodied in the
recapitulation, it follows that the stipulated sum is embraced in
the category of liquidated damages.
1 1. Where a sum of money is stated to be payable either by way of liquidated damages, or by way of penalty for breach of stipulations, all or
some of which are, or one of which is, for the payment of a sum of money
of less amount, that is really as penalty, and you can only recover the actual damage, and the court will not sever the stipulations.
2. Cases "in which the amount of damages is not ascertainable per se,
but in which the amount of damages for a breach of one or mor of the
stipulations either must be small, or 'will, in all human probability, be
small-that is, where it is not absolutely necessary that they should be
small; but it is so near to a necessity, having regard to the probabilities of
the case, that the court will presume it to be so.
Then the question is whether in that class of cases the same rule applies.
Now, upon this there is no decision. There are a great many dicta upon
the question, and a great many dicta on each side. I do not think it is necessary to express a final opinion in this case, but I do say this, that the
court is not bound by the dicta on either side, and the case is open to discussion. It is within the principle, if principle it be, of a larger sum being
a penalty for non-payment of a smaller sum; but, at the same time, it is
also within another class of cases to which I am now going to call attention.
3. The class of cases to which I refer is that in which the damages for
the breach of each stipulation are unascertainable, or not readily ascertainable, but the stipulations may be of greater or less importance, or they
may be of equal importance. There are dicta there which seem to say
that if they vary much in importance the principle of which I have been
speaking applies, but there is no decision. On the contrary, all the reported
cases are decisions the other way; although the stipulations have varied in
importance the sum has always been treated as liquidated damages.
4. A class of cases relating to deposits. Where a deposit is to be forfeited
for the breach of a number of stipulations, some of which may be trifling,
some of which may be for the payment of money on a given day, in all
those cases the judges have held that this rule does apply and that the
bargain of the parties is to be carried out. I think that exhausts the substance of the cases.

SUN PRINTING & PUBLISHING ASSN.

v. M1OORE. 667

Opinion of the Court.

In Strickland v. Williams, (1899) 1 Q. B. 382, Lord Justice
A. L. Smith appears to have stated an additional class to those
mentioned by Jessel, M. R. He said (p. 384): "In my opinion,
it is the law that where payment is conditioned on one event,
the payment is in the nature of liquidated damages,' This but
seems to reiterate the proposition of Justice Patterson in Pice
v. G een, previously cited. It was undoubtedly meant that the
"event" should not be the mere non-performance of an odinary agreement for the payment of money. See, also, per
Bramwell, B., in Sparrow v. Paris,(1862) 7 Hurl. & T. 594,599.
Now the stipulation here being considered, obviously would
be within the last class, for it was a promise to pay a stipulated
sum on the breach of a covenant to return the yacht to its
owner.
With the exception of the more recent decisions, the cases
generally on liquidated damages and penalties, as well those
decided in England as in this country, are reviewed in 2 EvansPothier on Obligations, pp. 88 to 111, and in a note to G-ahamr&
v. Bickhamn, 1 American Decisions, 328, 331, et seq. A list of
some of the later decisions of the state courts is found in the
margin. 1
The character of the stipulation under consideration, renders
it unnecessary to review in detail the decisions of the state
courts. There is in them much contrariety of opinion on some
phases of the doctrine, but our attention has not been called to
1 Hoagland v. Segur, (1876) 38 W. J. Law, (9 Vroom) 230; Wolf v. Des
Moines &Fort Dodge Railway Co., (1884) 64 Iowa, 380, 386; Burlill v. Daggett, (1885) 77 Maine., 545; Jaqua v. Headington, (1888) 114 Indiana, 309;
Wibaux v. Grinnell Live Stock Co., (1889) 9 Montana, 154; Wilhelm v.
Eaves, (1891) 21 Oregon, 194; Hennessy v. Hetzger, (1894) 152 Illinois, 505;
V illson v. Mayor &c. of Baltimore, (1896) 83 Md. 203, 210; May v. Crawfiord, (1898) 142 Missouri, 390; Garst v. Lockey Piano Case Co., (1900) 177
Mass. 91; Illinois Central R. 1. Co. v. Southern Seating & Cabinet Co.,
(1900) 104 Tenn. 568; lWeedon v. American Bonding & Trust Co., (1901,
North Carolina,) 38 So. E. 255; Young v. Gaut, (1901, Arnkansas,) 61 S. W.
372; Knox Rock-Blasting Co. v. Grafton Stone Co.,(1901, Ohio) 60 N. E.
Rep. 563; Johnson v. Cook, (1901, Washington) 64 Pacific Rep. 729; Taylor v. Times Veospaper Co., (1901, Minnesota) 86 N. W. Rep. 760; Emery v.
Boyle, (1901, Pennsylvania) 49 Atlantic Reporter, 779.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

any case which sustains the contention that a valuation clause,
such as that we are considering, contained in a contract made
under circmnstances like those which existed when this contract was executed, must be disregarded despite the evident intention of the parties to treat the sum named as estimated and
ascertained damages for a breach of the covenant to return the
yacht. That the courts of the State of New York do not lend
any support to such a contention-which it was strenuously argued at bar they do-we will make evident.
The case of Ward v. Hudson River Building Co., (1891) 125
N. Y. 230, is not an authority for the contention in question.
Equitable relief was sought in that case against the enforcement of a stipulation, which the court, however, held to be
liquidated damages and binding on the parties. True the court
did say, on page 235, that "where, however, a sum has been
stipulated as a payment by the defaulting party, which is disproportioned to the presumable or probable damage; or to readily ascertainable loss, the courts will treat it as a penalty and
will relieve, on the principle that the precise sum was not of
the essence of the agreement, but was in the nature of a security for performance." There is nothing, however, in this excerpt to countenance the claim that where it is clear from the
terms of the contract that the precise sum was of the essence
of the agreement and was the agreed amount of estimated damages, no fraud or imposition having been practiced, either a
court of equity or of law might rightfully decline to give effect
to the stipulation. Nor does the quoted statement support the
further claim that a court of law in an action on a contract to
recover a stipulated sum as damages might let in evidence to
establish that a mere disproportion existed between the agreed
sum and the -actual damage, for the purpose of avoiding the
stipulation. The meaning of the court is made clear by the
following statement, appearing on the same page with the above
excerpt: "We may, at most, say that where they have stipulated for a payment in liquidation of damages, which are in
their nature uncertain and unascertainable with exactness, and
may be dependent upon extrinsic considerations and circumstances, and the amount is not, on the face of the contract, out

SUN PRINTING & PUBLISHING ASSN. v. MOORE. 669
Opinion of the Court.

of all proportion to the probable loss, it will be treated as liquidated damages." An inspection of the opinion in the Ward
case also shows that the New York court approvingly referred
to prior decisions of the courts of that jurisdiction, Dakin.v.
Williarns, 17 Wend. 447, and 22 Wend. 201, where it was emphatically recognized that parties might embody in their contract an agreed valuation of property or any other quantum of
damages, where the damage was uncertain in its nature. We
quote, in this connection, from the opinion as reported in 17
Wend. delivered by Chief Justice Nelson, afterwards a member of this court. It was said (p. 454):
"The next question presented upon the above conclusion is
whether the sum of $3000 is to be viewed as damages liquidated
by the contract of the parties, or only in the light of a penalty ?
There are many cases in the English books in which this question has been very fully examined and considered, but it would
be an unprofitable consumption of time to go over them with a
view or expectation of extracting any useful general principle
that could be applied to this case. The following are the leading cases: Astley v. Weldon, 2 Dos. & Pul. 346; Burton v.
Glover, Holt's N. P. R. 43, and note; Reilley v. Jones, 1 Big.
302; Davies v. Penton, 6 Barn. & Ores. 216; Crisdee v. Boltorn,
3 Carr. & Payne, 2-0; Randall v. -verest, 2 Id. 571; .Kemble v.
Farren, 6 Bing. 141. In our court are the following: Dennis
v. Cammins, 3 Johns. Cas. 297; Slosson v. Beadle, 7 Johns. R.
72; Spencer v. Tilden, 5 Cowen, 144, and note, p. 150; NVobles
v. Bates, 7 Id. 307; JYnapp v. Afaltby, 13 Wendell, 587. From
a critical examination of all these cases and others that might
be referred to, it will be found that the business of the court, in
construing this clause of the agreement, as in respect to every
other part thereof, is to inquire after the meaning and intent of
the parties; and when that is clearly ascertained from the terms
and language used, it must be carried into effect. A court of
law possesses no dispensing powers; it cannot inquire whether
the parties have acted wisely or rashly, in respect to any stipulation they may have thought proper to introduce into their
agreements. If they are competent to contract within the prudential rules the law has fixed as to parties, and there has been

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

no fraud, circumvention or illegality in the case, the court is
bound to enforce the agreement." M[en may enter into improvident contracts where the advantage is knowingly and strikingly against them; they may also expend their property upon
idle or worthless objects, or give it away if they please without
an equivalent, in spite of the powers or interference of the court;
and it is difficult to see why they may not fix for themselves
by agreement in advance, a measure of compensation, however
extravagant it may be, for a violation of their covenant, (they
surely may after it has accrued,) without the intervention of a
court or jury. Can it be an exception to their power to bind
themselves by lawful contract? We suppose not; and regarding the intent of the parties, it is not to be doubted but that
the sum of $83000 was fixed upon by them 'mutually and expressly,' as they say, 'as the measure of damages for the violation of the covenant, or any of its terms or conditions.' If it
be said that the measure is a hard one, it may be replied, that
the defendants should not have stipulated -for it; or having
been thus indiscreet, they should have sought the only exemption, which was still within their power, namely, the faithful
fulfillment of their agreement."
Chancellor Walworth, in the opinion rendered in the same
case by the Court for the Correction of Errors, embodied in his
opinion the following (22 Wend. 201, 213):
"In Hubba'd v. Grattan and wife, Alcock & Nap. R. 389,
in which an action was brought to recover the stipulated damages which the defendant agreed to pay if he did not remove a
lime kiln adjacent to the plaintiff's premises, Bushe, Ch. J.,
says: 'The stipulation consists of two parts, one affirmative
that the lime kiln should be prostrated before a particular day;
the other negative that the assignee shall not at any future
time erect another lime kiln; and upon those the breaches are
assigned. Both bear on one object, to be relieved from the lime
kiln altogether, and both are essential to that object being
accomplished; and both parties agree in measuring beforehand
the damages consequent upon a breach of either agreement.
Such stipulations as to damages are upheld by courts of law
upon two grounds: 1st. Because a man may set a value, not

SUN PRINTING & PUBLISHING ASSN. v. MOORE. 671
Opinion of the Court.

only upon matters connected with his property, which value is
capable of being ascertained, but upon matters of taste and
fancy, such as prospect or ornament, which he alone can appreciate; and, 2dly, because even in matters capable of ascertainment, great difficulties might occur in some cases; and, in all
cases, it is prudent in both parties to provide against the trouble and expense of a future investigation; and the cases which
seem to have interfered with such compacts, are those in which
the subject matter of the stipulation shews that, whatever the
form of it may be, the parties could not have contemplated any
more than a penalty to secure against actual damage."
So, also, the case of Bagley v. Peddie, (1857) 16 N. Y. 469,
471, makes clear the fact that the New York courts recognize
the right of parties to agree beforehand upon damages to be
sustained by the breach of a contract, and that evidence aliunde
the instrument declared on cannot be received respecting the
amount of damage. The last two of what were termed "artificial rules" on the subject of liquidated damages and penalties, recited in the opinion as being peculiar to contracts of this
character, were as follows:
"Sixth. If, independently of the stipulated damages, the
damages would be wholly uncertain and incapable of being ascertained except by conjecture, in such case the damages will
be considered liquidated if they are so denominated in the instrument ;. Seventh. If the language of the parties evince a clear
and undoubted intention to fix the sum mentioned as liquidate&
damages in case of default of performance of some act agreed
to be done, then the court will enforce the contract, if legal in
other respects."
Following a review of several decided cases in England, the
court said (p. 474):
"The above cases will serve to illustrate the kind of certainty
as to the sum to be paid as damages for breach of an agreement
in order to hold the larger sum agreed to be paid on such breach
a mere penalty. They are cases where the lesser sum is named
specifically in the instrument itself, or depends on the award of
arbitrators. These and similar cases are the cases of certain
damages to which the courts allude in the third rule."

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

The court then quoted approvingly the prior decision of the
Supreme Court in Dakinv. Williams, supra, and concluded as
follows (p. 475):
"The case at bar seems to me to fall within the sixth rule,
the damages being wholly uncertain and depending entirely on
proof aliunde the instrument declared on."
And in connection with the New York cases it becomes pertinent to notice the case of Gay Mfanufacturing Co. v. Cainp,
(1895) 25 U. S. App. 134, on rehearing, 376; 68 Fed. Rep. 67,
much relied upon in argument. As we have previously observed, language is employed in that opinion which, broadly
interpreted, seems to countenance the idea that if a jury can
ascertain the damages suffered by the breach of a stipulation,
an agreement by the parties, embodied in a written contract,
fixing such damages, will be treated as a nullity. This deduction appears to have been drawn from certain rules of construction respecting liquidated damages and penalties enunciated by
the trial judge in Bagley v. Peddie, 5 Sanford, 192, 194, the
judgment in which case, it is proper to remark, was reversed
by the appellate court in 16 N. Y. 469, already referred to.
We do not think, however, the interpretation we have noticed
as having been put upon the rules in question was warranted;
at least, as we have shown, such a doctrine is altogether untenable. Nor do the other authorities cited in the opinion in the
Gay case lend support to the asserted doctrine. Those authorities were Harrisv. filler, 11 Fed. Rep. 118, 121, and a note
to _pencer v. Tilden, (1825) 5 Cowen, 144, 150. Harriesv. MAiller is referred to because of the statement by Judge Deady,
that the courts, "instead of giving effect to the contract of the
parties according to their intentions, assumes to control them
according to their standard of justice." The note to 5 Cowen
need not be commented upon, in view of the reference we have
made to later decisions of the courts of New York.
It may, we think, fairly be stated that when a claimed disproportion has been asserted in actions at law, it has usually been
an excessive disproportion between the stipulated sum and the
possible damages resulting from a trivial breach apparenton the
face of the contract,and the question of disproportion has been

SUN PRITEING & PUBLISHING ASSN. v.MOORE. 673
Opinion of the Court.

simply an element entering into the consideration of the question
of what was the intent of the parties, whether boncftde to fix
the damages or to stipulate the payment of an arbitrary sum as
a penalty, by way of security.
In the case at bar, aside from the agreement of the parties, the
damage which might be sustained by a breach of the covenant
to surrender the vessel was uncertain, and the unambiguous
intent of the parties was to ascertain and fix the amount of such
damage. In effect, however, the effort of the petitioner on the
trial was to nullify the stipulation in question by mere proof, not
that the parties did not intend to fix the value of the yacht for
all purposes, but that it was improvident and unwise for its
agent to make such an agreement. Substantially, the petitioner
claimed a greater right than it would have had if had made application to a court of equity for relief, for it tendered in its
answer no issue concerning a disproportion between the agreed
and actual value, averred no fraud, surprise or mistake, and
stated no facts claimed to warrant a reformation of the agreement. Its alleged right to have eliminat~d from the agreement
the clause in question, for that is precisel' the logical result of
the contention, was asserted for the first time at the trial by an
offer of evidence on the subject of damages.
The law does not limit an owner of property, in his dealings
with private individuals, respecting such property, from affixing
his own estimate of its value upon a sale thereof, or on being
solicited to place the property at hazard by delivering it into the
custody of another for employment in a perilous adventure. If
the would-be buyer or lessee is of the opinion that the value
affixed to the property is exorbitant, he is at liberty to refuse to
enter into a contract for its acquisition. But if he does contract
and has induced the owner to part with his property on the
faith of stipulations as to value, the purchaser or hirer, in the
absence of fraud, should not have the aid of a court of equity or
of law to reduce the agreed value to a sum which others may
deem is the actual value. And, as pertinent to these observations, we quote from the opinion delivered by W~ight, X., in
Clement v. Cash, 21 NT. Y. 253, where it was said (p. 257):
"When the parties to -a contract, in which the damages to be
VOL. oXXX 11-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ascertained, growing out of a breach, are uncertain in amount,
mutually agree that a certain sum shall be the damages, in case
of a failure to perform, and in language plainly expressive of
such agreement, I know of no sound principle or rule applicable
to the construction of contracts, that will enable a court of law
to say that they intended something else. Where the sum fixed
greatly disproportionate to the presumed actual damages,
is"
probably a court of equity may relieve; but a court of law has
no right to erroneously construe the intention of the parties,
when clearly expressed, in the endeavor to make better contracts
for them than they have made for themselves. In these, as in
all other cases, the courts are bound to ascertain and carry into
effect the true intent of the parties. I am not disposed to deny
that a case may arise in which it is doubtful, from the language
employed in the instrument, whether the parties meant to agree
upon the measure of compensation to the injured party in case
of a breach. In such cases, there would be room for construction;
but certainly none where the meaning of the parties was evident and unmistakable. When they declare, in distinct and
unequivocal terms, that they have settled and ascertained the
damages to be $500.00, or any other sum, to be paid by either
party failing to perform, it seems absurd for a court to tell them
that it has looked into the contract and reached the conclusion
that no such thing was intended; but that the intention was to
name the sum as a penalty to cover any damages that might
be proved to have been sustained by a breach of the agreement."
As the stipulation for value referred to was binding upon the
parties, the trial court rightly refused to consider evidence tending to show that the admitted value was excessive, and the
Circuit Court of Appeals properly gave effect to the expressed
intention of the parties.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals was right, and it
is therefore
Affirmed.

