DAYTON COAL AND IRON CO. v. BARTON.
Statement of the Case.

DAYTON COAL AND IRON COMPANY v. BARTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 26. Argued and submitted March 7,1901.-Decided October 21, 1901.

Knoxville Iron Company v. Harbison,ante 13, followed.

Tuis was an action tried in the circuit court of Rhea County,
Tennessee, wherein T. A. Barton, a citizen of Tennessee, sought
to recover from the Dayton Coal and Iron Company (Limited),
a corporation organized under the laws of Great Britain, and
doing business as manufacturer of pig iron and coke in said
county. The company owns a store where it sells goods to its
employ~s and other persons. The company also has a monthly
pay day, and settles in cash with its employ~s on said pay day.
In the mean time, and to such of its employ~s as see fit to
request the same, it issues orders on its storekeeper for goods.
On March 17, 1899, the legislature of Tennessee passed an
act requiring "all persons, firms, corporations and companies,
using coupons, scrip, punchout, store orders,. or other evidences
of indebtedness to pay laborers and employ6s for labor or otherwise, to redeem the same in good and lawful money of the
United States in the hands of their employ~s, laborers, or a
bonajida holder, and to provide a legal remedy for collection of
same in favor of said laborers, employ~s and such bona fRde
holders."
This was a suit brought by said Barton to recover as a bona
,§de holder of certain store orders that had been issued by the
defendant company to some of its laborers in payment for labor.
The defendant company denied the validity of the legislation,
as well under the laws and constitution of Tennessee as the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
The plaintiff recovered a judgment against the company inthe
circuit court of Rhea County, and this judgment was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of Tennessee, whereupon a writ of error
from this court was allowed by the Chief Justice of the state
Supreme Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

.M . Frederick Zee Xftansft
Company.

for the Dayton Coal and Iron

.r. Benjamin Gorden Mlenzie for Barton.
MR.JUSTICE

SIRAS, after

making the above statement, deliv-

ered the opinion of the court.
The only question presented for our consideration in this
record is the validity, under the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States, of the act of the legislature
of the State of Tennessee, prescribing that corporations and
other persons, issuing store orders in payment for labor shall
redeem them in cash, and providing a legal remedy for bonaftde
holders of such orders.
In the case of The Knoxville Iron Company v. Samuel Harbison, in error to the Supreme Court of Tennessee, decided at
the present term, we affirmed the judgment of that court sustaining the constitutional validity of the state legislation in
question, and the cause now before us is sufficiently disposed
of by a reference to that case.
The only difference in the cases is, that in the former the
plaintiff in error was a domestic corporation of the State of
Tennessee, while, in the present, the plaintiff in error is a foreign corporation. If that fact can be considered as a ground
for a different conclusion, it would not help the present plaintiff
in error, whose right, as a foreign corporation, to carry on business in the State of Tennessee, might be deemed subject to the
condition of obeying the regulations prescribed in the legislation
of the State. As was said in Orient Insurance Co. v. Daggs,
172 U. S. 557, 566, that "which a State may do with corporations
of its own creation it may do with foreign corporations admitted into the State.

. .The power of a State to impose

conditions upon foreign corporations is certainly as extensive
as the power over domestic corporations, and is fully explained
in Hooyey v. California,155 U. S.648."
We do not care, however, to put our present decision upon
the fact that the plaintiff in error is a foreign corporation, nor

McMASTER v. NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO.
Syllabus.

to be understood to intimate that state legislation, invalid as
contrary to the Constitution of the United States, can be imposed as a condition upon the right of such a corporation to do
business within the State. .Home Ins. Co. v. lHorse, 20 Wall.
445; Blake v. _zc Clung, 172 U. S. 239, 254.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee is
Ajfirmed.
MR. JusTiCE BREWER and MR. JUsTIcE PEeKH.Adissented.

MoMASTER v. NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
lo. 29. Argued March 18, 1901.-Decided October 28, 1901.

The policies sued on provided for forfeiture on nonpayment of premiums,
and as to payments subsequent to the first, which were payable in advance, for a grace of one month, the unpaid premiums to bear interest
and to be deducted from the amount of the insurance if death ensued
during the month. The applications, which were part of the policies,
were dated December 12, 1893, and by them McSlaster applied, in the
customary way, for insurance on the ordinary life table, the premiums
to be paid annually; the company assented and fixed the annual premium at $21, on payment of which, and not before, the policies were to
go into effect. After the applications were filled out and signed, and
without McMaster's knowledge or assent, the company's agent inserted
therein: "Please date policy same as application;" the policies were
issued and dated December 18, 1893, and recited that their pecuniary
consideration was the payment in advance of the first annual premiums,
"and of the payment of a like sum on the twelfth day of December in
every year thereafter during the continuance of this policy." They were
tendered to Mclaster by the company's agent, December 26, 1893, but
McMaster's attention was not called to the terms of this provision, and
on the contrary he " asked the agent if the policies were as represented,
and if they would insure him for the period of thirteen months, to which
the agent replied that they did so insure him and thereupon McMaster
paid the agent the full first annual premium or the sum of twenty-one

