OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

CAPITAL CITY DAIRY COMPANY v. OHIO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 45. Argued April 19, 22,1901.-Decided January6, 1902.
The judgment of the state court in this case was based upon the consideration given by it to all the asserted violations of the statutes jointly, and
hence no one of the particular violations can be said, when considered
independently, to be alone adequate to sustain the conclusions of the court
below that a judgment of ouster should be entered.
The contention that the statutes of Ohio in question are repugnant to the
commerce clause of the Constitution is without merit. Those statutes
were, the act of 1884, the act of 1886, and the act of 1890, all referred to
in the opinion, and all relatingto the sale of drugs or articles of food, and
especially oleomargarine.
The Fifth Amendment to the Constitution operates solely on the National
Government, and not on the States.
The legislature of Ohio had the lawful power to enact the statutes in question, and so far as they related to the manufacture and sale of oleomargarine within the State of Ohio by a corporation created by the laws of
Ohio, they were not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
This court, on error to a state court cannot consider an alleged Federal
question, when it appears that the Federal right thus relied upon had
not been, by adequate specification, called to the attention of the state
court, and had not been considered by it, it not being necessarily involved
in the determination of the cause.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.r.

Thomas Ewing Steele for plaintiff in error.

.&. .B. Dillon for defendant in error. .7k&. John.M. Sheets
was on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE

WHrrE delivered the opinion of the court.

By a law of the State of Ohio, enacted in 1884, it was made
the duty of every one manufacturing or exposing for sale any
drug or article of food included in the provisions of the act to
furnish, on demand, to the person who should apply for and

CAPITAL CITY DAIRY CO. v. OHIO.
Opinion of the Court.

tender the value of the same a sufficient sample to enable an
analysis to be made. This law is compiled in Bates' Annotated
Ohio Statutes, see. 4200-7.
By the provisions of another statute, enacted in 1886, and
amended in 1887, it was made unlawful to sell or offer for sale
or exchange any substance purporting, appearing or represented
to be butter or cheese, or having either the semblance of butter
or cheese, not wholly made of pure milk or cream, salt and
harmless coloring matter, unless done under its true name, and
it was exacted that each package should have distinctly marked
upon it, in the manner pointed out in the statute, the true name
of the article and its constituent ingredients. And it was further
forbidden, in the marking, to use any words or combination of
words indicating that the article was either butter, cream or
dairy product. This statute is compiled in Bates' Annotated
Statutes of Ohio, sec. 4200-30.
In 1890 it was further provided that no person should manufacture within the State, or should offer for sale therein, whether
manufactured therein or not, any substance made out of any
animal or vegetable oil, not produced from unadulterated milk
or cream from the same, in imitation or semblance of natural
butter or cheese produced from butter, unadulterated milk or
cream. The terms butter and cheese, as defined in the statutes
were declared to be articles manufactured exclusively from pure
milk or cream, or both, with salt, and with or without any
harmless coloring matter.
It was provided, however, in this act that nothing therein
contained "shall be construed to prohibit the manufacture or
sale of oleomargarine.in a separate and distinct form and in such
manner as will advise the consumer of its real character, free
from any coloring matter or other ingredient causing it to look
like or appear to be butter, as above defined." This statute is
compiled in Bates' Annotated Statutes of Ohio, see. 4200-13-14.
On May 16, 1894, it was further enacted that "no person
shall manufacture, offer or expose for sale, sell or deliver, or
have in his possession with intent to sell or deliver, any oleomargarine which contains any methly (methyl) orange, butter

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

yellow, annotto aniline dye, or any other coloring matter."
Bates' Annotated Statutes, sec. 4200-16.
On January 27, 1893, the plaintiff in error was incorporated
under the general laws of the State of Ohio, "for the purpose
of manufacturing, selling and dealing in oleomargarine, and
the materials and utensils employed in the manufacture, storage and transportation thereof, and all things incident thereto."
Under this charter the corporation thereafter carried on its
business in the State of Ohio.
On April 12, 1898, proceedings in quo warranto were begun
in the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio by the attorney
general of that State to forfeit the franchise of said corporation and for the appointment of trustees to wind up its affairs.
The relief demanded was based on the charge: That the corporation had "continuously since about the time of its creation,
up to the present day, within this State,

.

.

.

offended

against the laws of this State, misused its corporate authority,
franchise and privileges, and assumed franchises and privileges
not granted to it, and has assumed and exercised rights, privileges and franchises specially inhibited by law" in enumerated
particulars. The specifications of the petition are reproduced
in the margin.'
'First charge. Said defendant corporation has, during the times and at
the places aforesaid, manufactured and sold an article in imitation and
semblance of natural butter; which said article was made out of animal
and vegetable oils and compounded with milk or cream and both; which
said article was not then and there in separate and distinct form and in
such a manner as would advise consumers of its real character, and was
not free from coloring matter or other ingredients causing it to look like
and appear to be butter, and said article was not butter, but was an article
made in imitation and semblance thereof.
Second charge. The defendant corporation has, at the times and places
above mentioned, manufactured and has offered and exposed for sale and
has sold and delivered and had in its possession with the intent to sell and
deliver oleomargarine in large quantities-as your relator is informed, in
quantities from ten thousand to twenty thousand pounds thereof daily;
which said oleomargarine contained coloring matter, to wit, annotto and
other coloring matter unknown to relator.
Third charge. The said defendant corporation, during the times and at
the places above stated, has manufactured and sold a substance purported

CAPITAL CITY DAIRY CO. v. OHIO.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant answered, its defences being reiterated under
seven different headings. It suffices for the purposes of the issues now before us to summarize the answer as follows:
It traversed all the facts alleged in the petition except as admitted in the answer. It expressly denied that the corporation
had abused or misused its corporate powers. It admitted that
the corporation had been engaged under its charter in the
manufacture and sale of oleomargarine. It denied that any
such product had been offered for sale as an imitation of butter
and without being plainly marked in conformity with the laws
of the State of Ohio and the laws of the United States. It denied that the corporation had refused to deliver samples of its
products to the duly qualified inspector and agent of the State,
as alleged in the fourth charge of the petition, and averred that
the entire matter alleged in the fourth charge was based upon
and appearing to be butter and having the semblance of butter, but which
substance was not butter, but was oleomargarine; but the packages, rolls
and parcels thereof were not distinctly and durably stamped, or painted,
or stenciled, or marked in the true name thereof in the ordinary bold-faced
capital letters required by the act of lIay 17, 1886, entitled "An act to prevent the adulteration of and deception in the sale of dairy products, etc."
(83 0. L. 178.)
Fourth charge. Said defendant corporation has refused and still refuses
to deliver and furnish to the duly appointed, qualified and acting inspector
and agent of the dairy and food commissioner of this State any sample or
quantity of the oleomargarine manufactured by it, although duly demanded
by him and the value of the same for a ten-pound package thereof or any
other reasonable quantity thereof was tendered it for the analysis thereof,
contrary to section 4 of the act of March 20, 1884, entitled "An act to provide against the adulteration of food and drugs," (81 0. L. 67,1 and said
defendant has refused and still refuses to permit said inspector and agent
to enter into its factory for any purpose -whatsoever, and has refused and
still refuses to permit him to examine or cause to be examined any of the
products manufactured by it.
Fifth charge. All of said violations of the laws of this State as set forth
in the first, second, third and fourth charges have been made and done by
said defendant corporation with full knowledge of the said violations of
law and for the expressed purpose and intent of violating said laws and
evading the same and for the purpose of deceiving the people of this State
and other States as to the real character of its said product, contrary to the
act of March 7, 1890, entitled, "An act to prevent deception in the sale of
dairy products and to preserve public health." (87 0. L. 51.)
VOL.

oixxx 11-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

a personal difficulty which happened on one isolated occasion
between an officer of the corporation and one of the agents of
the dairy and food commissioners" who was not an assistant
commissioner."
The answer admitted that for a brief period between January 1, 1898, and March 1, 1898, the corporation had manufactured oleomargarine and colored it with a coloring matter
known as annotto, which was entirely harmless; that this was
done in midwinter; that the effect of such use was to give the
oleomargarine a yellow color; that the butter made at that
period of the year was not naturally yellow, and that therefore
the use of the coloring matter did not cause the oleomargarine
to look like natural butter; on the contrary, it was averred
that oleomargarine cannot be made so as to look unlike butter
unless the manufacturer is allowed to color it; that all the oleomargarine thus manufactured during the period stated was
made not for sale in the State of Ohio, but for sale in other
States, and was wholly sent out of the State of Ohio to such
other States; that the statutes of the State of Ohio enacted
in 1890 and 1894, above referred to, did not forbid the use in
the manufacture of oleomargarine of a harmless coloring matter, but that if they did they were repugnant to the constitution
of the State of Ohio and to section 8 of article I of the Constitution of the United States and section 1 of the Fourteenth
Amendment of that Constitution.
The answer additionally alleged that as the statutes which
it was alleged had been violated imposed criminal penalties,
the proceeding in quo warranto to forfeit the charter was unauthorized, at least until a previous criminal conviction for the
acts complained of had been obtained. The portion of the
answer setting up this defence concluded as follows: "And
that this proceeding is in contravention of the Constitution of
the United States."
A demurrer was filed to the defences, which asserted the
repugnancy to the constitution of the State and of the United
States of certain of the statutes charged to have been violated,
but no action seems to have been taken upon such demurrer.
A reply was filed in which the State substantially reiterated

CAPITAL CITY DAIRY CO. v. OHIO.
Opinion of the Court.

the allegations of the petition, taking issue with the claim that
the company had used only a harmless coloring matter for a
short period and in oleomargarine intended solely for sale outside of the State of Ohio. The reply also took issue with the
claim that the natural color of oleomargarine was a light yellow, and it was also denied that oleomargarine "cannot be
made to look 'unlike' butter, unless the manufacturer is allowed to color it."
The case was heard "upon the petition and answer, testimony,
and arguments of counsel." The Supreme Court of Ohio found
the averments of the petition to be true, and entered a decree
ousting the corporation from its corporate rights, privileges
and franchise, adjudging that it be dissolved, and appointing
two trustees for the creditors and stockholders of the corporation to wind up its affairs. 62 Ohio St. 350. The court, on
the day this opinion was announced, entered an order, which it
declared was made a "part of the record of this case," in which
it was stated that at the request of the defendant it was certified that in deciding the case the court had found it necessary
to consider whether the Ohio act of 1884 providing for the furnishing of samples, that of 1886 as amended in 1887 requiring
all oleomargarine to be marked in a specific manner, the act of
1890 forbidding the manufacture and sale of any oleomargarine colored to look like butter, as well as the act of 1894 forbidding the use of coloring matter in oleomargarine, were not
repugnant to the third clause of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution of the United States conferring upon Congress the
power to regulate commerce and to the Fifth and Fourteenth
Amendments of that instrument, and that the court had sustained the validity of the statutes, although their unconstitutionality had been asserted by the defendant. A writ of error
was allowed by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of
Ohio.
Before disposing of the controversies presented by the assignment of errors, it is necessary to notice a motion of the defendant in error to dismiss. It is predicated upon the ground that
as the court below found the defendant had violated the statute in refusing to furnish samples as required by the law of

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

1884, this affords adequate support for the judgment of ouster,
irrespective of any substantial Federal question. It is true in
the pleadings it was not asserted that the provision of the Ohio
law requiring the delivery of samples was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, but in the certificate made by the
Supreme Court of Ohio on the day its opinion was announced,
it is certified that for the purposes of the decision of the case it
became necessary to determine whether the act of 1884, providing for the delivery of such samples, was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. Conceding that the certificate
can only serve to aid in elucidating whether a Federal question
was presented by the record, and that such certificate cannot
independently in and of itself import into the record such a
question when not otherwise properly inferable from the record,
we do not think the motion to dismiss is well taken. We cannot, from an inspection of the opinion of the Supreme Court of
the State of Ohio, conclude that the judgment of ouster which
that court rendered was predicated alone upon the fact that the
defendant had failed to deliver samples as required by the statute. On the contrary, we think the context of the opinion of
the court demonstrates that the judgment against the corporation was based upon, not alone the mere failure to deliver the
samples, but because of that failure as connected with and explained by the acts of the corporation in continuously, and as
declared by the court flagrantly, violating not one but most of
the other statutes relied on. In other words, we think that the
judgment of the state court was based upon the consideration
given by it to all the asserted violations of the statutes jointly,
and hence no one of the particular violations can be said, when
considered independently, to be alone adequate to sustain the
conclusions of the court below that the judgment of ouster
should be entered. We come then to the principal contention
which the record presents, the asserted repugnancy of the before-mentioned statutes of the State of Ohio to the Constitution
of the United States.
At the outset, it is apparent that all the statutes assailed, except the act of May 16, 1894, were on the statute books of the
State at the date when the provisions of the general incorpora-

CAPITAL CITY DAIRY CO. v. OHIO.
Opinion of the Court.

tion law of the Stat; were taken advantage of. The question
thus at once arises whether the corporation can be heard to assail the validity of the statutes which were in force when it
voluntarily caused itself to be incorporated. We do not, however, pursue this thought further, since it is impossible to separate, for the purposes of the questions here arising, the laws
existing at the time of the charter from the act of 1894, which
was enacted after the incorporation.
The contention that the statutes in question are repugnant
to the commerce clause of the Constitution is manifestly without merit. All the acts of the corporation which were complained of related to oleomargarine manufactured by it in the
State of Ohio, in violation of the laws of that State, and therefore operated on the corporation within the State and affected
the product manufactured by it before it had become a subject
of interstate commerce. Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S.1; United States v. E. C. .Ynigkt Co., 156 U. S. 1. It results that the
plaintiff in error is not in a position to assail the validity of the
statutes, because of their supposed operation upon interstate
commerce, and we are not called upon to express an opinion
respecting the constitutionality of the statutes upon this assumption.
The contention that the statutes in question violate the Fifth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States need not
be dwelt upon, as it is elementary that that amendment operates solely on the National Government and not on the States.
Brown v. New Jersey, 175 U. S.172, 174, and cases cited.
The inquiry then is this: Do the provisions of the Ohio statutes which, allowing the manufacture and sale of oleomargarine
when free from any coloring matter or other ingredient causing
it to look like or to appear to be butter as defined in the statute,
and which, moreover, expressly forbids the manufacture or sale
within the State of any oleomargarine which contains any
methyl orange, butter yellow, annotto, aniline dye or any other
coloring matter, contravene the Constitution of the United
States?
The proposition is that as by the Ohio statutes harmless coloring matter is permitted t6 be used in butter, the effect of

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

prohibiting the use of such harmless ingridients in oleomargarine is to deprive the manufacturer of oleomargarine of the
equal protection of the laws and to take from him his property
without due process of law.
The Supreme Court of Ohio, however, having before it the
evidence introduced upon the issues of fact made in the pleadings, held that oleomargarine was an trticle which might easily
be manufactured so as to be hurtful, and thus result in fraud
upon and injury to the public, and that the inhibition of the
use of coloring matter in oleomargarine was a reasonable police
regulation tending to insure the public against fraud and injury.
The purpose of the legislature in permitting the use of harmless coloring matter in butter and requiring that oleomargarine
be sold in its natural state, was declared not to be for the purpose of discriminating in favor of butter but to provide a ready
means by which the public might know that an article offered
for sale was butter and not oleomargarine.
It cannot in reason be said, as a mere matter of judicial inference, that such regulations for such purpose were a mere arbitrary interference with rights of property, denying the equal
protection of the laws or that they amounted to a taking of
property without due process of law. It follows that the legislature of Ohio had the lawful power to enact the regulations.
Gundling v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183. Indeed, the controversy
is governed by the decisions in Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127
U. S. 678, and Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461. In
the Powell case a statute absolutely forbidding the manufacture
and sale in the State of Pennsylvania of oleomargarine was
held valid, because designed to prevent fraud. Speaking of the
case in Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1, this court
said (p. 15):
"That case did not involve rights arising under the commerce
clause of the Federal Constitution. The article was manufactured and sold within the State, and the only question was one
as to the police power of the State acting upon a subject always
within its jurisdiction."
In the Plumley case, the power of the State, in legislating
for the prevention of deception in the manufacture and sale of

CAPITAL CITY DAIRY CO. v. OHIO.
Opinion of the Court.

imitation butter, was held to extend to the prohibition of the
sale of oleomargarine artificially colored so as to look like yellow butter, although brought into Massachusetts from another
State.
Applying the principles enunciated in the cases to which we
have just referred, it results that the Ohio statutes under consideration, in so far as they relate to the manufacture and sale
of oleomargarine within the State of Ohio by a corporation
created by the laws of Ohio, were not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
We have previously stated that in the answer of the defendant it was asserted that the remedy for the alleged violations
of the Ohio statutes whose constitutionality was assailed, was
by a criminal proceeding and not by an action in quo waranto
for the purpose of forfeiting the charter of the defendant, and
that in said pleading it was averred in general terms that "this
proceeding" was "in violation of the Constitution of the United
States." Under the assumption that the general reference to
the Constitution just adverted authorizes this court to pass upon
them, two Federal questions are elaborately pressed upon our
attention. They are:
First. That as the acts done by the corporation which are
complained of were by the statutes of Ohio made the subject
of criminal penalties, such acts could not be availed of as the
basis of civil proceedings in quo wa ranto until in any event
prior thereto there had been criminal conviction, without denying to the defendant the equal protection of the laws or taking
its property without due process of law contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment.
Second. That the appointment of trustees to wind up the
affairs of the corporation as a consequence of the judgment of
ouster produced not only like results, but also violated the contract clause of the Constitution of the United States, because
amounting to an impairment of the obligations of the contract
which the charter of the corporation had engendered. It is
conceded that the Ohio statute which authorized the proceedings in quo warr"anto for any abuse or misuse of corporate
powers, and which empowered the court, if it decreed against

OCTOBER TERMA,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

the defendant, to appoint trustees to liquidate the affairs of the
corporation, was a part of the general law of Ohio at the time
the defendant corporation was organized. The contentions,
then, reduce themselves to this, that the contract rights of the
corporation arising from the charter were denied and the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution was violated because
the corporation was subjected to the general laws of Ohio, which
became impliedly a part of the charter. Whilst thus to bring
the propositions to their ultimate analysis may be wholly adequate to dispose of them, we do not pass upon them, since they
do not properly arise for decision on this record.
It is settled that this court, on error to a state court, cannot
consider an alleged Federal question, when it appears that the
Federal right thus relied upon had not been by adequate specification called to the attention of the state court and had not been
by it considered, not being necessarily involved in the determination of the cause. Green Bay & -Miss. CanaZ Co. v. Patten
Paper Co., 172 U. S. 52, 6'T; Oxley Stavce Co. v. Butler Co., 166
U. S. 648, 654, 655, and cases cited. Now, the only possible
support to the claim that a Federal question on the subject under
consideration was raised below, was the general statement in
the answer to which we have already adverted, that, "this proceeding is in violation of the Constitution of the United States."
Nowhere does it appear that at any time was any specification
made as to the particular clause of the Constitution relied upon
to establish that the granting of relief by quo warranto would
be repugnant to that Constitution, nor is there anything in the
record which could give rise even to a remote inference that
the mind of the state court was directed to or considered this
question. On the contrary, it is apparent from the record that
such a contention was not raised in the state court. Thus,
although at the request of the defendant below, the plaintiff in
error here, the state court certified as to the existence of the
Federal questions which had been called to its attention and
which it had decided, no reference was made in the certificate
to the claim of Federal right we are now considering.
The foregoing considerations are equally applicable to the
proposition that the obligations of the contract engendered by

GREENE v. HENKEL.
Syllabus.

the charter were impaired by the appointment by the court of
liquidating trustees. Indeed, though the appointment of such
trustees was expressly prayed in the petition, the record does
not even suggest that a constitutional question in respect to
such appointment was raised or called to the attention of the
court below.

Audgment afflrned.

GREENE v. HENKEL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued November 26, 27, 1901.-Decided January 6,1902.
A fair interpretation of the language used by the District Judge in the
court below in granting the application for a warrant of removal from
New York to Georgia shows that from the evidence le was of opinion
that there existed probable cause, and that the defendants should therefore be removed for trial before the court in which the indictment was
found.
In proceedings touching the removal of a person indicted in another State
from that in which he is found to that in which the indictment is found
this court must assume, in the absence of the evidence before the court
below, that its finding of probable cause was sustained by competent
evidence.
It is not a condition precedent to taking action under Rev. Stat. ยง 1014 that
an indictment for the offence should have been found.
The finding of an indictment does not preclude the Government, under Rev. Stat. ยง 1014, from giving evidence of a certain and definite
character concerning the commission of the offence by the defendants
in regard to acts, times, and circumstances which are stated in the indictment itself with less minuteness and detail.
Upon this writ the point to be decided is, whether the judge who made the
order for the removal of the defendants had jurisdiction to make it; and
if he had the question whether upon the merits he ought to have made it
is not one which can be reviewed by means of a writ of habeas corpus.
The indictment in this case is prima facie good, and when a copy of it is
certified by the proper officer, a magistrate acting pursuant to Rev. Stat.
ยง 1014, is justified in treating the instrument as an indictment found by
a competent grand jury, and is not authorized to go into evidence which

