OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

GUARANTEE COMPANY OF NORTH AMERICA
MECHANICS' SAVINGS BANK AND TRUST COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 48. Argued April 23, 24, 1901.-Decided January 6,1902.
Where a bond insuring a bank against such pecuniary loss as it might sustain by reason of the fraudulent acts of its teller, contained a provision
that the company would notify the insuring company on "becoming
aware" of the teller "being engaged in speculation or gambling," it is
the duty of the bank to give such notice, when informed that the teller
is speculating, although, while confessing the fact of speculating, he asserts that he has ceased to do so.
When the teller is in fact engaged in speculation and the bank is so informed, it cannot recover on such a bond for losses occurring through
his fraudulent acts after the information is received, when it has not notified the company of what it has heard, or made any investigation, but
has accepted the teller's assurance of present innocence as sufficient, on
the mere ground that it had confidence in his integrity.
When at the time the teller's bond was renewed, the books of the bank
showed that he was a defaulter in the sum of $19,600 understated liabilities, and of $3765.44 abstracted from bills receivable, both of which
could have been detected by the taking of a trial balance or a mere comparison between the books kept by him and the individual ledger kept
by another person, and by a correct footing of the notes, the bank is
open to the charge of ]aches, and a certificate that the accounts of the
teller had been examined and verified is not truthful.
Where it is known to the president of the bank that the insuring company
regards engagement in speculation as unfavorable to an employ 's habits, and he is informed that the employ6 is speculating, a representation
by the president that he has not known or heard anything unfavorable to
the employ6's habits, past or present, or of any matters concerning him,
about which the president deems it advisable for the company to make
inquiry, is a misrepresentation.

THIS was a bill in equity brought by the Mechanics' Sarings
Bank and Trust Company for the use of J. J. Pryor, assignee,
against the Guarantee Company of North America, for an accounting and for a decree for the amount alleged to be due

GUARANTEE CO. v. MECHANICS' &o. CO.
Statement of the Case.

complainant on two bonds executed by the Guarantee Company to the bank; one insuring the latter corporation against
such pecuniary loss as it might sustain by reason of the. fraudulent acts of John Schardt, as teller and collector; and the
other insuring the same corporation against pecuniary loss by
reason of fraudulent acts committed by him iu his office of
cashier. On hearing a decree was rendered against the Guarantee Company on both bonds, 68 Fed. Rep. 459, which was
affirmed on appeal. 47 U. S. App. 91. The case was then
brought to this court by certiorari, and the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals was reversed and the cause remanded
on the ground that the decree of the Circuit Court was not
final. 173 U. S. 587.
The Guarantee Company subsequently made an unsuccessful
attempt to have the cause reopened for additional evidence alleged to have been discovered since the first decree. A final
decree was rendered against the company, which, on appeal to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, was modified
and affirmed, 100 Fed. Rep. 559, and the present certiorari was
then allowed.
The Mechanics' Savings Bank and Trust Company was a
banking institution located at lNashville, Tennessee, with a capital of fifty thousand dollars. John Schardt was its teller from
1888 to January, 1893, when he was elected cashier and remained such until his death on April 17 following. As teller
and cashier he embezzled more than one hundred thousand
dollars of the funds of the bank, beginning in 1890 and continuing until about the time of his death. In discovering the
defalcation the bank ascertained its insolvency, closed its
doors, and made a general assignment for the benefit of its
creditors.
The Guarantee Company of North America was a company
organized under the laws of the Dominion of Canada, and engaged in the business of guaranteeing pecuniary losses by the
fradulent acts of persons in positions of trust, and issued to
the bank in 1888 a bond for the period of one year on Schardt
as teller for ten thousand dollars, which was subsequently re-

OCTOBER TERIM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

newed each year until January, 1893, when it issued a bond on
Schardt as cashier for twenty thousand dollars.
The defalcation of more than one hundred thousand dollars
was occasioned by losses in speculation, and just prior to Schardt's
death he assigned to the bank some property of slight value,
and about eighty thousand dollars of life insurance as indemnity.
From these collaterals the bank realized the sum of $46,448.86,
and for the remainder of the default the company was held liable to the extent of each bond. On the second appeal to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, that court found the default under the
cashier's bond to have been some six thousand dollars less than
as ascertained by the Circuit Court, and modified the decree
accordingly.
The teller's bond was dated January 16, 1888, and described
Schardt as the employ6 and the bank as the employer. It provided:
"Whereas, the employ6 has been appointed in the service of
the said employer, and has been assigned to the office or position of teller and collector, by the said employer, and application has been made to the Guarantee Company of North America for the grant by them of this bond;
"And whereas, the employer has delivered to the company a
certain statement, and it being agreed and understood that such
statement constitutes an essential part of the contract hereinafter expressed :
"Now, therefore, in consideration of the sum of one hundred
dollars lawful money of the United States of America, to the
said company, as a premium for the term of twelve months, ending on the sixteenth day of January, 1889, at twelve o'clock,
noon, and in order to effect a continuance of the currency of this
bond, a like premium hereafter to be paid to the said company,
on or before the sixteenth day of January in each year, as a
premium for the ensuing year, so long as the said employer may
wish to continue this bond, and the said company shall consent
to receive said premiums, it is hereby agreed that the company
shall, within three months after proof satisfactory to the directors, make good and reimburse to the employer such pecuniary
loss as the employer shall have sustained by the fraudulent acts

GUARANTEE CO. v. MECHANICS' &c. CO.
Statement of the Case.

of the employ6, in connection with the duties of his said office
or position, or with any other duties assigned to him, by the employer in the said service, committed by him, and discovered
during the continuance of the currency of this bond, and within
six months from the employ 's ceasing to be in the said service.
"The following provisions are also to be observed and binding as a part of this bond:
"The actual payment of the premium and its acceptance by
this company either for the issue or renewal of this bond, is essential to its currency, and a condition precedent, to the right
or claim hereunder.
"That this bond is issued and renewed on the express understanding that the employ6 has not within the knowledge of
the said employer at any former period, either in this or other
employment, been guilty of any default or serious dereliction of
duty.
"That the employer shall observe or cause to be observed
all due and customary supervision over the said employ6 for
the prevention of default, and if the employer shall at any time,
during the currency of this bond, condone any act or default,
on the part of the employ6, which would give the employer the
right to claim hereunder, and shall continue the employ6 in his
service, without notification to the company, the said company
will not be responsible hereunto for any default which may
occur subsequent to said act or default of said employ6, so condoned.
"That the employer shall at once notify the company on his
becoming aware of the said employ6 being engaged in speculation or gambling, or indulging in any disreputable or unlawful
habits or pursuits.
"That there shall be an inspection or audit of the accounts
or books of the employA on behalf of the employer at least
once in every twelve months from the date of this bond.
"That the company shall be notified in writing of any act
on the part of said employ6, which may involve a loss for which
the company is responsible hereunder to the employer, immediately or without unreasonable delay, after the occurrence of
such act shall have come to the knowledge of the employer; and

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

upon the making of such a claim, this bond shall wholly cease
and determine as regards any liability, for any act of the employ6 committed subsequent to the making of such claim, and
shall be surrendered to the company on the payment of all
claims due hereunder.
"That the company may cancel this bond at any time, by
notifying the employer and refunding the premium paid less a
yvro rata part thereof for the time said bond shall have been in
force; but said cancellation shall not affect or impair the company's liability hereunder for any acts committed or discovered
previous to such cancellation during the currency of this bond,
and within three months after said cancellation."
The statement referred to was signed by the then cashier
and delivered to the company before the bond was issued. It
commenced with a communication from the managing director
of the Guarantee Company, desiring answers to certain accompanying questions. These answers were given by the cashier,
who also declared his answers and representations to be true,
and that he was "not aware of any matter or thing affecting
the character or reputation of the applicant, which should create any doubt as to his reliability or trustworthiness." This
bond was renewed each year up to January, 1893, and in each
year before the bond was renewed, the company furnished the
bank with a blank form, to be filled out, and stating: "It is
necessary before the bond can be renewed that you obtain the
certificate on the back hereof by your president or cashier and
on its return with remittance of the premium, the renewal can
be immediately effected."
The certificate on the back was filled up and signed by the
cashier, and among other things stated that the accounts of
said teller. Schardt had been examined and verified by the
finance committee of said bank; and the bond was not renewed
in any year until this certificate had been made out and delivered to the company.
Before the cashier's bond was issued the company "submitted
for reply on behalf of the bank," certain questions, addressed to

GUARANTEE CO. v. MECHANICS' &c. CO.
Statement of the Case.

the president, which, and the answers thereto by the president
as such, are referred to in the bond as "employers' guarantee
proposal No. 154,806." Among these questions and answers
were the following:
,"Q. 2. If a new employ6, by whom was the applicant introduced, or how did he become known to you? If hitherto in
continuous service, for how long, in what capacities, and has he
uniformly performed his duties faithfully and satisfactorily?
A. Applicant began service in this bank six years ago as colcl'k, and has since been advanced to bank's teller and
lector now cashier.
"Q. 3. Has he ever been in arrears or default in the bank's
service, or, as far as you have heard, in any previous employment? A. No.
"Q. 4. Have you known or heard anything unfavorable as to
his habits or associations, past or present? A. No.
"Q. -. Or of any matters concerning him about which you
deem it advisable for the company to make inquiry? A. No.
"Q. 5. Is he to your knowledge pecuniarily embarrassed or
insolvent? Or is he in any way indebted to the bank? "Q. 6. Is he now or about to be engaged in any other business or employment than in the bank's services? A. No.
"Q. 7. Applicant's position or capacity for which this bond
is required? A. Cashier.
"Q. 8. Amount of his salary or other emoluments, if any?
A. $2000 per annum.
"Q. 9. Amount or bond hereby required, from what date to
commence, and by whom premium will be paid? A. $20,000
to date from Jan. 1, 1893. Premium payable by bank.
"Q. 10. What further security, if any, will be held or required from applicant? A. None.
"Q. 11. Have you hitherto held other security from applicant? If so, why discontinued or changed to this? A. Formerly teller and general bookkeeper in this bank; elected cashier
at annual meeting January 1, 1893.
"Q. 12. Has there been any fault in the bank by any employ6
in applicant's position? A. No.
"Q. 13. When were applicant's books and accounts (includ-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

ing cash, securities and vouchers, if any) last examined, and by
whom? A. December 31, 1892, by finance committee (were
they found correct) of bank and found correct.
"Q. 14. In case of applicant handling cash or securities, how
often will the same be examined and compared with the books,
accounts and vouchers, and by whom? A. Not less than quarterly, and often monthly, by finance committee.
"Q. 15. In case of applicant acting as teller: (a) Will he be
required to balance his cash daily, and report same to president
or cashier? (b) And will a record of same be kept? A.
"Q. 16. Will applicant handle funds or securities not subject
to a routine check, or periodical examination? If so, please
describe their nature? A. No."
"The above answers and representations are true to the best
of my knowledge and belief."
The cashier's bond was then executed and delivered to the
bank, and provided:
"Whereas the said employ6 has been appointed cashier at
Nashville, Tennessee, in the service of the said employer and
has been required to furnish security that he shall not be guilty
of any fraudulent act in the performance of his duties in the
said capacity, by which the said employer shall suffer pecuniary
loss, and whereas the said company, in consideration of the sum
of one hundred dollars, now therefor paid for the term expiring
January 1, 1894, and for the purposes of the renewal of this
contract the sum or premiums of one hundred dollars, hereafter
to be therefor paid to the said company, on or before the first
day of January, 1894, and a like payment for each and every
succeeding term of one year, so long as the said company shall
consent to receive it-hath agreed upon the terms, and subject
to the provisos and conditions hereinafter contained and endorsed
thereon, hereby to become such security to the said employer:
"1Now,therefore, this bond witnesseth, that the said employ6
for and on his own behalf and the said company fully relying
on the truth of the statement and declaration contained in a
certain document distinguished as employer's guarantee proposal No. 154,806, dated the 10th day of Jan., 1893, and signed
Lewis T. Baxter, president on behalf of the said employer, and

GUARANTEE CO. v. MECHANICS' &c. CO.
Statement of the Case.

lodged with the said company at its office in Montreal, and on
the strict performance and observance hereafter, by the said
employer of the contract thereby created, do hereby, respectively, severally and jointly covenant with the said employer
to reimburse unto the said employer or his or their representatives or assigns, the amount of any loss not exceeding in the
whole sum of twenty thousand dollars, which, during the currency of this bond, shall be sustained by the said employer by
reason of any act of fraud committed by the said employ6 in
connection with the duties of said appointment and constituting
embezzlement or larceny-such reimbursement to be made within three calendar months next after proof shall have been given
to the satisfaction of the directors of the said company, of the
occurrence of such loss, and the proof thereof to include, if the
company shall so require, an affidavit to be made or taken by
the person, for the time being entitled to the benefit of this
guarantee, to the effect that he hath been actually defrauded
by the said employ6, and that he suffers absolute and ultimate
loss thereby to the full amount claimed hereunder, and that
the contract created as aforesaid hath been fully performed and
observed on the part of the said employer.
"Provided always, that this bond and guarantee hereby
granted or undertaken, shall be subject and liable to the terms
and conditions hereupon endorsed."
Among the terms and conditions referred to were these:
"This bond is granted upon the following express conditions:
"1. Any misstatement of a material fact, in the declaration
within mentioned, or in any claim made under this bond, will
render this bond void from the beginning.
"2. That the said employer shall use all due and customary
diligence in the supervision of said employ6 for the prevention
of default, and to that end shall cause an inspection or audit
of his accounts to be made at least once within twelve months,
and if the said employer shall at any time during the currency
of this bond, become aware of any act or default on the part
of said employ6 which would constitute a claim hereunder, and
shall continue said employ6 in his service without notification
to the said company, the said company will not be responsible

OCTOBER TERM , 1901.
Statement of the Case.

hereunder for any loss or default which may occur subsequent
to said act or default of said employ6.
"3. That any written answers or statements made by or on
behalf of said employer in regard to or in connection with the
conduct, duties, accounts or methods of supervision of the said
employ6 delivered to the company either prior to the issue of
this bond, or to any renewal thereof, or at any time during its
currency, shall be held to be a warranty thereof, and form a
basis of this guarantee, or of its continuance.
"4. That the said employ6 has not, to the knowledge or belief of said employer, been guilty of any serious dereliction of
duty, or default in this or any other service, or that his habits
have been such as to incur said employer's censure, previous to
the issue of this bond.
"5. The said employer shall, immediately, upon it becoming
known to him or them, that the said employ6 has been guilty
of any act entitling the said employer to claim under this bond,
notify the said company, at its head office; and this bond shall
become absolutely void, both as to existing and future liability
if the said employer shall neglect or omit to so notify the said
company.
"8. That in addition to the supervision to be exercised by
the said employer as mentioned in the statement and declaration
within referred to the said company shall be afforded every
reasonable facility to examine from time to time as they may
desire, for the purposes of this bond, the books, papers and affairs of the said employer entrusted to the keeping and charge
of the said employS."
It appeared from the evidence that Schardt defaulted as teller
and collector from September 12, 1890, to January 1, 1893, in
the sum of $78,819.24, subdivided as follows: From September
1, 1890, to January 16, 1891, $5879.34; from January 16, 1891,
to January 1, 1892, $22,290; from January 1, 1892, to January,
1893, $50,649.90; and as cashier, from January 16, 1893, to
April 15, $22,964.17.
The principal books of the bank were: A general ledger,
showing generally the accounts of the bank, including the ac-

GUARANTEE CO. v. MECHANICS' &c. CO.
Statement of the Case.

count in totals of the deposits made and checked out daily; a
cash book, giving each day's business; a daily balance book,
which was a summary of the general ledger; these three books
were kept by Schardt; and an individual ledger, which showed
in detail the deposit account of each individual depositor, and
was kept by a clerk, who had no other duties, and was known
as individual bookkeeper. The aggregate of the amounts due
each depositor shown on the individual ledger and the totals
due depositors on the general ledger and daily balance book
should have agreed, but this they did not do because, after the
latter part of 1890, the general ledger and daily balance book
did not correctly show the amount due to all depositors, although
the individual ledger correctly gave the amount due to each depositor. Up to the latter part of 1890 trial balances were taken
from the individual ledger every two weeks, or once a month,
and entered in a trial balance book, and these balances were
compared with the balances on the general ledger and any differences settled and corrected, but at that time Schardt told
the individual bookkeeper that it was not necessary to take off
trial balances any longer, and thereafter none were taken off.
Schardt, as teller, abstracted the funds of the bank and understated on the general ledger the amount due to depositors by
the amount he abstracted. The difference in the balances represented the shortage at the respective dates. The individual
and general ledger were out of balance January 16,1891, $2098;
January 1, 1892, $19,600, and January 1, 1893, $69,700.
The leading expert accountant testified that he was employed
to examine the books on April 15, 1893, and went to the bank
on the morning of that day between eight and eight thirty
o'clock, and that by four o'clock that afternoon he had discovered that while the daily balance book kept by Schardt
showed less than $18,000 due depositors, the individual ledger
from "A" to "L," (leaving " M " to "Z" to be examined)
showed an indebtedness due depositors of in the neighborhood
of $55,000. He reported at once that something was radically
wrong; although it required considerable time subsequently to
ascertain the exact condition of the bank.
Quarterly examinations of the bank's condition were made

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

by the finance committee, but the individual bookkeeper was
not requested to furnish the total amount shown on the individual ledger to be due depositors. The committee "examined
no book except the daily balance sheet, with which we compared the reports as made out by Schardt." "Q. In what way
could you tell that the amounts reported by Schardt were correct? A. We only had his word for it and the reports that he
made to us and the exhibit on the daily balance book." "Q. In
what way did you verify the statement on the book kept by
Schardt which would have shown and purported to show the
amount due individual depositors? A. We made no verification
of it only in the manner in which I have stated. Q. Have you
stated any manner in which you verified this particular account? A. We took his word for it, which we had to do or
go into an examination of all the books."
Schardt also abstracted proceeds of notes paid to him as
teller. This shortage was not concealed on the books. The
amount of notes in the bank did not equal the amount called
for by the books by the amount abstracted.
January 1, 1892, the books showed a defalcation of $28,169.34,
of which $19;600 was abstracted deposits and $3765.44 proceeds of notes collected and not accounted for. January 1,
1893, the books showed a defalcation of $78,819.24, of which
$69,700 was abstracted deposits and $4015.44 proceeds of notes
collected.
The following evidence was also introduced:
Charles Sykes, who was the cashier of the bank from January, 1890, to January, 1893, testified:
"Q. 6. Did you at any time during that year receive information that John Schardt was speculating; if so, state when,
how and all the circumstances? A. Yes, sir; I did receive
such information. Some time in the summer or fall of 1892 a
gentleman by the name of Kyle came here from New York,
representing Myers & Co., of New York. Kyle wanted me to
become interested in the brokerage business and represent
Myers & Co. at this point. I told him that I did not like the
idea because it would be purely a speculative business, and he

GUARANTEE CO. v. MECHANICS' &c. CO.
Statement of the Case.

then said that that made no difference; that John Schardt, our
teller, was a part owner in a similar concern.
"Q. 7. Did you impart this knowledge to any one; if so,
whom? A. Yes, sir; I once told Mr. L. T. Baxter, the president of the bank, of the conversation.
"Q. 8. Did you say anything to Schardt about the matter?
A. Yes, sir; on the next day, I think I told Mr. Schardt of
of what Kyle had said.
"Q. 9. What did Schardt say to you in reply ? A. He admitted that he had at one time been interested in such a concern, but had sold his interest; and that he had speculated to
some extent, but had made money on every transaction, and
had seen the error of his way, and had ceased to do so any
more.
"Q. 10. Did you impart this information received from
Schardt to any one connected with the bank, if so, whom?
A. Yes, sir; I immediately told Mr. Baxter, the president of
the bank, what Schardt had said.
"Q. 11. Did you receive any other information at any other
time with reference to Schardt's speculating? A. Yes, sir;
some time thereafter I received an anonymous letter telling me
that Schardt had been speculating.
"Q. 12. What did you do with it and what became of it?
A. I showed it to Mr. L. T. Baxter, the president, and he said
not to pay any attention to an anonymous letter, and I spoke
to Schardt about it, and he said he thought he knew the author, and asked me to let him have the letter, and he would
bring the party before me and make him acknowledge it was
false.
"Q. 13. Did you give him the letter and did he bring the
party before you? A. I gave him the letter, and asked him
about it more than once, and he always replied that he was
working on it.
"Q. 14. Did you tell Mr. Baxter of this conversation? A. I
think I did."
On cross examination the witness said there was litigation
pending between him and the bank's assignee; that he signed
several applications for the renewal of Schardt's bond as teller,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

relying on the fact that the finance committee said his accounts
were correct; that he did not remember that he recommended
Schardt as his successor to Porter or Duncan, though he might
have, and if Mr. Porter said that he did, he supposed he did.
Mr. Porter testified that he asked Sykes about Schardt's ability;
"there was no question as to his integrity."
J. M. Eatherly testified that he had been a director of the
bank from its organization until its assignment; a member of
the finance committee for several years prior to being elected
president, and president from March 28 to April 17, 1893.
In answer to questions from complainant's counsel in respect
of an interview with Schardt on the evening of April 15, 1893,
he said:
"I told him that we had come out for the purpose of getting
an explanation as to the discrepancies mentioned above. I told
him we had found errors in his books. He said, 'Mr. Eatherly,
my books are correct.' I told him that I did not see how he
could reconcile the two things that we had found the daily balance sheet showing something less than $18,000 due depositors,
while the individual ledger, as far as had been examined by
Mr. McEwan and Mr. Richardson, showed about $55,000 due
depositors. He reiterated that his books were absolutely correct. I said, 'John, I cannot understand it that way.' I was
satisfied there was an error somewhere. I asked Mr. Richardson if he wanted to ask him any question. He was silent a moment or two, and said, 'I don't know that I do.' He then
turned to Mr. Schardt, and said: 'John, I am bound to say to
you that you are a defaulter.' Air. Schardt broke out into a
cry, putting his hands over his face, and said: ' My God! it is
true-too true.' I said: ' John, compose yourself; we have
come here for facts and want facts.' I then asked him how
much was his default and he said about $40,000. I told him if
the other individual ledger showed the same proportion of discrepancy that this one did, that he was a defaulter to a much
larger amount-I would say to not less than $60,000 or 870,000.
He said, 'Mr. Eatherly, you are mistaken. It cannot be that
much.' I then asked him how he had lost it, and he said, ' Speculating in New York, and you can get it all back.' He said,

GUARANTEE CO. v. MECHANICS' &c. CO.
Statement of the Case.

you' meaning the bank. I said, ' No, John, we can do no such
thing; the laws of New York legalize this sort of trading, and
we cannot recover it in that way."'
On cross examination he testified:
"Q. 98. Did you ever hear of Schardt's speculating before
January, 1893? A. I think I did.
"Q. 99. Did you see the anonymous letter written with respect to his speculating? A. I saw a letter directed to Judge
John Woodward. Judge Woodward brought that letter to the
bank and showed it to me, and I asked permission to call Mr.
Schardt up and show it to him, and he said that he was perfectly
willing that I should do so. I at once called Mr. Schardt to
where we were and told him there was a communication I
wanted him to read. He did so, and his remarks were: IIt is
a lie and I can prove it.' In this letter it was stated that Mr.
Schardt was a partner in a bucket shop. I told Mr. Schardt
that it devolved on him to prove it false. I at once reported
the contents of this letter to the president of the bank, Mr. Baxter. Mr. Schardt asked that I and Judge Woodward remain
there for a few minutes. He went out and got Frank Searight
and Dr. Barry. Judge Woodward, Mr. Baxter and myself
went into the rear of the bank building. Mr. Schardt and the
other gentlemen came back, and Mr. Schardt says: ' Here are
men who can tell you whether that is so or not.' I asked them
if they knew why we had sent for them, and they said that Mr.
Schardt had told them. Mr. Searight said some time before
that Mr. Schardt, Dr. Barry and himself had agreed to open a
brokerage association. They objected very much to the term
bucket shop. Each one was to put in a small amount- $200,
I think. Mr. Schardt, in a short time, became dissatisfied and
sold his interest to Frank Searight at a small loss. Subsequent
to that I went to Mr. Schardt's house to see him, having heard
again that he was speculating. I told him what I had heard
and he said it was not so, that he did not own any stocks at
all. I told him if he was he ought to quit that or quit the
bank, and he said he had sold everything he had. I again heard
that he was speculating, but from sources that I did not attach
any importance to, as it all emanated from the same source as

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the anonymous letter. I again approached him and he denied
it.
"Q. 100. Was this just prior to the resignation of Judge
Woodward as a member of the board? A. I think it was.
"Q. 101. Do you know when he resigned? A. His resignation bears date Feb. 17, 1893. Was placed before the board of
directors and accepted March 25, 1893.
"Q. 102. Did Mr. Baxter, the president, ever say anything to
you about Schardt speculating? A. I don't think he ever did."
The general agent of the company at Nashville testified that
Schardt's bond as cashier was cancelled through him on April 15,
he having ascertained that Schardt had been speculating in futures; that he had not heard of any defalcation or wrongdoing
on the part of any employ6 of the bank other than this; and
that the company did not bond persons holding a fiduciary position, who speculated in futures, as they had found from experience that the risk was not safe.
There was evidence that Schardt had borne a good reputation
for honesty, integrity and industry; and of experts that, without trial balances from the individual ledger, the true condition
of the bank could not be known; and that to verify accounts
meant to apply some other test than the statements of those
who kept them.
.Xr. William L. Granbery for petitioner.
.A&. -Edward-

Ea8t for respondent.

MR.CHIEF JusTicE FULLER, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The teller's bond, as originally given, expired January, 1889,
and was renewed from year to year. Before each renewal, the
bank was informed by the company that it was necessary that
a certain certificate by the president or cashier should be furnished, which was done, and stated, among other things, that
the accounts of the teller bad been examined and verified by
the finance committee of the bank. The bond provided that it

GUARANTEE CO. v. MECHANICS' &c. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

was issued and renewed "on the express understanding that the
employ6 has not within the knowledge of the said employer at
any former period either in this or other employment been
guilty of any default or serious dereliction of duty;" "that the
employer shall observe, or cause to be observed, all due and
customary supervision over the said employ6 for the prevention
of default;" and that there shall be "an inspection or audit of
the accounts or books of the employ6 on behalf of the employer
at least once in every twelve months from the date of this
bond."
The company, not unnaturally, contends that as when the
bond was renewed in January, 1892, the bank's books showed
that the employ6 was a defaulter in the sum of $19,600 understated liabilities, and of $3765.41 abstracted from bills receivable, both of which could have been detected by the taking of a
trial balance as is customary, or a mere comparison between
the books kept by Schardt and the individual ledger, and a correct footing of the notes, the bank had not only not complied
with its engagements above referred to, and falsely certified to
a verification which in fact had not been had, but was guilty of
such laches as in itself to defeat a recovery.
These are matters which, while not controlling our decision,
should be considered in connection with that aspect of the case
which we regard as decisive.
In addition to the provisions already mentioned, it was agreed
"that the employer shall at once notify the company, on his
becoming aware of the said employ6 being engaged in speculation or gambling, or indulging in any disreputable or unlawful
habits or pursuits."
The legislation of Tennessee and the decisions of its courts
placed dealing in futures, when either party did not contemplate delivery, in the category of gambling, and aimed to suppress it. AZlen v. Dunham, 92 Tenn. 257; 31cGrew v. City Produce Exchange, 85 Tenn. 572; Palmerv. State, 88 Tenn. 553;
act of March 30, 1883, Acts 1883, c. 251, 331.
The evidence showed that in the summer or fall of 1892 the
cashier of the bank was told that the teller was part owner in
a concern engaged in speculative business; he at once informed
VOL. OLXXX lI-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the president of the bank; and also called Schardt's attention
to the matter, who admitted that he had once been engaged in
such a concern, but said he had sold out, and also that he had
speculated to some extent, but had ceased to do so. The cashier
further testified that he afterwards received an anonymous letter
that Schardt was speculating, and showed it to the president;
that he spoke to Schardt about it; that the latter said he thought
he knew the author, and asked for the letter, that he might
bring the party before the cashier and make him acknowledge
that it was false. The letter was given him but nothing came
of it, although he was asked about it more than once. This
conversation was reported to the president. A leading director
and a member of the finance committee was shown by another
director an anonymous letter to him, to the same effect, which
was reported to the president. The letter stated that Schardt
was in partnership in a bucket shop. Schardt said it was a lie,
and brought his partners before the president and the two directors, and they said that they had opened a brokerage association with Schardt, but that Schardt had sold out. This director
subsequently heard again that Schardt was speculating and
went to Schardt's house and interviewed him, and he said he
did not own any stocks at all, he had sold everything he had.
He heard this again shortly after the cashier's bond was given,
and Schardt again denied it. Complainant did not put the
president of the bank on the stand.
In these circumstances was it the duty of the bank to notify
the company of what it had heard?
In American Surety Company v. Pauly, 170 U. S. 133, 144,

which was an action against the maker of a bond given to insure a bank against loss arising from acts of fraud or dishonesty on the part of its cashier, the applicable rule was thus laid
down:
"If , looking at all its provisions, the bond is fairly and reasonably susceptible of two constructions, one favorable to the
bank and the other favorable to the surety company, the former,
if consistent with the objects for which the bond was given,
must be adopted, and this for the reason that the instrument
which the court is invited to interpret was drawn by the attor-

GUARANTEE CO. v. MECHANICS' &c. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

neys, officers or agents of the surety company. This is a well
established rule in the law of insurance.

.

.

.

As said by

Lord St. Leonards in Anderson v. Fitzgerald,4 H. L. Cas. * 484,
* 507, 'it [a life policy] is of course prepared by the company,
and if therefore there should be any ambiguity in it, must be
taken, according to law, most strongly against the person who
prepared it.' There is no sound reason why this rule should
not be applied in the present case. The object of the bond in
suit was to indemnify or insure the bank against loss arising
from any act of fraud or dishonesty on the part of O'Brien in
connection with his duties as cashier, or with the duties to which
in the employer's service he might be subsequently appointed.
That object should not be defeated by any narrow interpretation of its provisions, nor by adopting a construction favorable
to the company if there be another construction equally admissible under the terms of the instrument executed for the protection of the bank."
But this rule cannot be availed of to refine away terms of a
contract expressed with sufficient clearness to convey the plain
meaning of the parties, and embodying requirements compliance
with which is made the condition to liability thereon.
Whatever the common law duty on the part of the employer
to notify the guarantor of the fraud or dishonesty of the employ6, whose fidelity is guaranteed, the parties to this contract
undertook to declare the duty of the bank to the company in
certain specified particulars. It required that the employ6
should not have been guilty of previous default or dereliction
within the knowledge of the employer. It provided for notification of any act of the employ6 which might involve a loss with
out unreasonable delay after the occurrence of the act came to
the knowledge of the employer. And it required immediate
notification on the employer becoming aware of the employ6 being engaged in speculation or gambling. The words, "becoming aware," were manifestly used as expressive of a different
meaning from having "knowledge."
In Pauly's case, where the bond required that the company
should be notified in writing "of any act on the part of the
employ6, which may involve a loss for which the company is

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

responsible hereunder, as soon as practicable after the occurrence of such act may have come to the knowledge of the employer," it was ruled that it had been properly held "that the
surety company did not intend to require written notice of any
act upon the part of the cashier that might involve loss, unless
the bank had knowledge, not simply suspicion, of the existence
of such facts as would justify a careful and prudent man in
charging another with fraud or dishonesty."
But the bond before us not only contained that clause but
the clause under consideration, which was a different and additional clause intended to secure the safety of prevention
through timely warning.
It seems to us that the obvious meaning of "becoming
aware," as used in this bond, is "to be informed of," or, "to be
apprised of," or, "to be put on one's guard in respect to," and
that no other meaning is equally admissible under the terms of
theinstrument. These are the definitions of the lexicographers,
distinctly deducible from the derivation of the word "aware,"
and that is the sense in which they are here employed. It is
used in the same sense in the cashier's certificate on the renewals of the teller's bond.
To be aware is not the same as to have knowledge. The
bond itself distinguishes between the two phrases and uses
them as not synonymous with each other. And, in view of the
plain object of the clause, we cannot regard the words equivalent to "becoming satisfied," though perhaps they may be to
"having reason to believe." Even then these facts would have
demanded investigation or notification, for we think the bank
cannot be heard to say it did not have reason to believe that
Schardt was speculating when it took his professions of repentance as sufficient assurance that he had ceased speculating, and
turned its back on any- independent inquiry or investigation.
Our understanding of the provision is that what the company
stipulated for was prompt notification of information by the
bank in regard to speculation or gambling on the part of the
employ6. It was entitled to exercise its own judgment on that
information and had not agreed to rely on the bank's belief in
that regard. It had the right to investigate for itself whether

GUARANTEE CO. v. MECH.ANICS' &c. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the bank did so or not. Notification of the existence of reason
for inquiry was exactly what the clause was intended to secure.
The bank neither investigated nor gave the company notice of
the information it had, and substituted its own judgment as to
the value of that information for that of the company. In our
view this conduct on its part amounted to a breach of the stipulation.
The Circuit Judge in his opinion said: "The language of the
bond is that the employer shall report ' on his becoming aware
of the employ6 being engaged in speculation.' Without now stopping to consider at length the meaning of the terms here used,
I am of opinion that, in the absence of fraud or bad faith, the
failure to disclose the result of the inquiry made in this instance
did not invalidate the bond as to the surety. Certainly, speculation in a reasonable and substantial sense is meant, such in
length of time or magnitude as would make it serious. This,
when brought to the attention of the bank officials, was a past
event, and apparently in itself unimportant. The bank was
under no duty by the contract or independently of it to actively
institute or prosecute inquiries about Schardt, or to run down
loose rumors or anonymous letters." 68 Fed. Rep. 459, 465.
The Circuit Court of Appeals said: "There is not the least
evidence of any bad faith on the part of any of these officers of
the bank, including Sykes, the old cashier, in not making a disclosure of what was known, but only of bad judgment in not
being more considerably affected by their information." 47
U. S. App. 115.
The quotations show that the Circuit Court of Appeals and
the Circuit Court concurred in the opinion that if the president
and directors had such confidence in Schardt that they did not
feel called upon to make any investigation in view of the information that they had received, or to notify the company of
that information, and were not guilty of intentional bad faith,
then the bank could not be held to have violated the stipulations of the bond on its part.
As will have been seen, we are unable to accept this conclusion. The company's defence did not rest on the duty of
diligence growing out of the relation of the parties, but on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

breach of one of the stipulations entered into between them.
The question was not merely whether the conduct of the bank
was contrary to the nature of the contract, but whether it was
not contrary to its terms. Engagement in speculation or
gambling was what the company sought to guard against because experience had admonished it of the probability that
speculation or gambling would lead to acts involving loss for
which it would be responsible. Bad faith in the view of the
courts below would not exist if the bank had such confidence
in Schardt's integrity that it accepted his bare statement that
he was not speculating as overcoming the weight of his admission that he had been. How anything but such a denial could
be expected it is not easy to see, nor how careful and prudent
men could have been justified in omitting independent inquiry.
The truth is that in spite of strict supervision and the pursuit of the best systems of keeping accounts, there is always a
risk of defalcation. The prevention of defaults or their detection at the earliest possible moment are of even more vital
importance to financial institutions than to the guarantors of
the fidelity of their employ~s. The provisions intended to
protect the company in this case were not in themselves unreasonable and so far as they operated to compel the bank to
exercise due supervision and examination, and due vigilance,
were consistent with sound public policy. We think it was the
duty of this bank to have made prompt investigation, or at all
events to have notified the company at once of the information
that it had, and we decline to hold that the bank's misplaced
confidence in Schardt affords sufficient ground for enforcing
the liability of the surety company on the theory of good
faith.
Our conclusion is that the failure of the bank in the particulars adverted to defeats a recovery on the teller's bond for
defalcation after information of Sehardt being engaged in speculation was received.
It also results that there can be no recovery at all on the
cashier's bond. If the bank had observed the stipulation in.
the teller's bond to which we have referred, it is obvious that

GUARANTEE CO. v. MECHANICS' &c. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

there would have been no cashier's bond, and the question
would not have arisen. But this it did not do, and the bond
was given. The bond provided that the company covenanted
with the bank in reliance on the statement and declaration of
the president on behalf of the bank, and on the bank's strict
observance of the contract; that any misstatement of a material
fact in the declaration should invalidate the bond; that the
bank should use "all due and customary diligence in the supervision of said employ6 for the prevention of default;" "that
any written answers or statements made by or on behalf of
said employer in regard to or in connection with the conduct,
duties, accounts or methods of supervision of the said employ6
delivered to the company either prior to the issue of this bond,
or to any renewal thereof, or at any time during its currency,
shall be held to be a warranty thereof, and form a basis of this
guarantee, or of its continuance."
Two of the questions and answers in the declaration were as
follows :
-1"Q. Have you known or heard anything unfavorable as to
his habits or associations, past or present? A. No.
"Q. Or of any matters concerning him about which you deem
it advisable for the company to make inquiry? A. No."
In Pauly's Case, the president and the cashier were confederates in the dishonesty of the cashier, for the purpose of defrauding the bank; and also it was held no part of the duties
of the president under the circumstances there disclosed to certify to the integrity of the cashier as he did. In this case the
dishonesty was that of the cashier alone; the statements were
required to be and were made on behalf of the bank, and the
president acted for the bank in so doing; and the bonds were
procured bythe bank, and the bank paid the premiums. There
can be no doubt that the bank was responsible for the representations of its cashier in the one instance and its president in the
other in procuring these contracts of indemnity. The representations made in the declaration on which the cashier's bond
was issued were clearly misrepresentations. The teller's bond
required notification if the bank were informed of speculation
on Schardt's part. The president had heard of such speculation,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

and knew that speculating was something unfavorable as to
Schardt's habits; and the president of course knew that the
matters concerning him, of which he had beard, were such as
it was advisable for the company to-make inquiry about. True,
the second question was if he had heard of matters about which
he deemed it advisable for the company to inquire and the word
"deem" might be said to give a considerable discretion, but it
was not a discretion to be abused. That the company would
consider it advisable to make inquiry is too plain for argument.
The whole tenor of the bond renders any other conclusion impossible.
I We cannot regard the representations of the president
as consistent with good faith, and he was not even called as a witness
by the bank to explain his conduct, if he could have done so.
The decrees of both courts arereversed, and the cause remanded
to the Circuit Courtfor furtherproceedings consistent with
this ovinion.

TUCKER v. ALEXANDROFF.
CERTIORARI TO THE OIROUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 303. Argued November 15,18, 1901.-Decided January 6, 1902.

Alexandroff, a conscript in the Russian naval service, was sent as one of a
detail of fifty-three men to Philadelphia, to become a part of the crew
of a Russian cruiser then under construction at that port.

On his ar-

rival at Philadelphia, the vessel was still upon the stocks, but was shortly
thereafter launched, and continued for some months in the water still
under construction. Alexandroff, who had remained during the winter
at Philadelphia in the service and under the pay of the Russian Government, deserted the following spring, went to New York, renounced his
allegiance to the Emperor, declared his intention of becoming a citizen of
the United States, and obtained employment. Shortly thereafter, he
was arrested as a deserter from a Russian ship of war, and committed to

prison, subject to the orders of the Russian Vice Consul or commander
of the cruiser. On writ of habeas corpus, it was held:

