SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. BELL.

675

Statement of the Case.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. BELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 20. Argued and submitted December 5, 6, 1901.-Decided January 13, 1902.

The Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company took no title to lands within
the indemnity limits of its grant until the deficiency in the place limits

had been ascertained, and the company had exercised its right of selection.
The Secretary of the Interior had no authority, upon the filing of a plat in
the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, to withdraw
lands lying within the indemnity limits of the grant from sale or preemption; and a patent issued to a settler under the land laws, prior to

the selection made by the railroad company, of the land in dispute as
lieu lands, was held to be valid, notwithstanding the lands lay within
the forty-mile strip ordered by the act to be surveyed, after the general
route of the road had been fixed.
The case of Hewitt v. Schultz, 180 U. S. 139, followed and applied to the
facts of this case.

THIS was a complaint in the nature of a bill in equity filed by
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company in the Superior Court
of Fresno County, California, against Isaac T. Bell, praying to
be declared the rightful owner of a certain quarter section of laud
in that county, and that it be adjudged that the defendant Bell
holds the legal title to said land in trust for the plaintiff, and
requiring him to convey the same to it free of all encumbrances.
The facts of the case, as set forth in the complaint, are substantially as follows: By "An act granting lands to aid in the
construction of a railroad and telegraph line from the States of
Missouri and Arkansas to the Pacific Coast," act of July 27,
1866, c. 278, 1- Stat. 292, such road being incorporated under
the name of The Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, there
was granted to such railroad companyEvery alternate section of public land, not
"SEC. 3..
mineral, designated by odd numbers, to the amount of twenty
alternate sections per mile, on each side of said railroad line, as
said company may adopt, through the Territories of the United
States, and ten alternate sections of land per mile on each side

OCTOBER TERMT, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

of said railroad whenever it passes through any State, and
whenever, on the line thereof, the United States have full title,
not reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, and free
from preemption, or claims or rights, at the time the line of said
road is designated by a plat thereof, filed in the office of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office; and whenever prior
to said time, any of said sections or parts of sections shall have
been granted, sold, reserved or occupied by homestead settlers,
or preempted, or otherwise disposed of, other lands shall be
selected by said company in lieu thereof, under the direction of
the Secretary of the Interior, in alternate sections, and designated by odd numbers, not more than ten miles beyond the
limits of said alternate sections," etc.
"SEC. 6. And be it further enacted, That the President of
the United States shall cause the lands to be surveyed for forty
miles in width on both sides of the entire line of said road after
the general route shall be fixed, and as fast as may be required
by the construction of said railroad; and the odd sections of
land hereby granted shall not be liable to sale or entry or preemption, before or after they are surveyed, except by said company, as provided in this act; but the provisions of the act of
September, eighteen hundred and forty-one, granting preemption rights, and the acts amendatory thereof, and the Act entitled 'an act to secure homesteads to actual settlers on the
public domain,' approved May twenty, eighteen hundred and
sixty-two, shall be, and the same are hereby, extended to all
other lands on the line of said road when surveyed, excepting
those thereby granted to said company."
By section 18 of the same act authority was given to the
Southern Pacific Railroad Company, incorporated under the
laws of California, "to connect with the said Atlantic and Pacific Railroad, formed under this act, at such point near the
boundary line of the State of California, as they shall deem
most suitable for a railroad line to San Francisco, and shall
have a uniform gauge and rate of fare with said road; and in
consideration thereof, to aid in its construction, shall have
similar grants of land, subject to all the conditions and limitations herein provided, and shall be required to construct its

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. BELL.

677

Statement of the Case.

road on like regulations, as to time and manner, with the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad herein provided for."
On November 26, 1866, the plaintiff accepted the terms and
conditions of the charter and grant of July 27, 1866, as above
set forth, and on January 3, 1867, duly fixed the general route
of its line of road, designating the same by a plat thereof filed
in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office.
This plat and designation having been duly approved and accepted by the Commissioner and Secretary of the Interior on
March 22, 1867, all the odd-numbered sections of land lying
within thirty miles of the railroad, as shown upon the plat,
were withdrawn from sale or location, preemption or homestead entry, and have ever since remained so withdrawn.
Thereafter, and prior to November 8,1889, the company duly
constructed and equipped the entire railroad provided for in
said act, and along the line designated upon the plat filed on
January 3, 1867, and the road so constructed, except that part
which extends from Mojave to the Needles, was duly accepted
and approved by the President and Secretary of the Interior.
A certain quarter section of land within the granted limits
of the railroad, as constructed and shown on the map, having
been granted and otherwise disposed of, prior to the time when
the line of the route was designated by the plat filed with the
Commissioner of the General Laud Office, the quarter section
of land in dispute in this case, which was within the indemnity,
but not within the granted limits of the road, being more than
twenty but within thirty miles on one side of the road as constructed, was selected by the railroad, in lieu of the quarter
section above described as having been granted and otherwise
disposed of by the United States. The land so selected was
at the time the act of July 27, 1866, was passed, vacant and
unappropriated public land of the United States, not mineral,
to which the United States then had full title, not reserved,
sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, and free from preemption or other claims or rights, and such land has ever
since so remained, except as it has been affected by the acts
of the parties to this suit. The company had not, at the
time the selection was made, nor has it since, selected or re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ceived lands to the extent or amount earned and acquired
by it in virtue of the grant and the provisions of the granting
act.
The complaint further alleged that notwithstanding the rights
of the company secured to it by the act of July 27, 1866, the
United States issued a patent for the quarter section so selected
in lieu of the other, to the defendant, who claims the legal title
to said land in fee simple and free from any trust or obligation
to the plaintiff.
To this complaint the defendant interposed a general demurrer, which was sustained, and the plaintiff having refused to
amend his complaint, a final judgment was entered against it
and an appeal taken to the Supreme Court of California, where
the judgment of the Superior Court of Fresno County was
affirmed upon the authority of another case against one Wood.
124 California, 475. Whereupon plaintiff sued out a writ of
error from this court.
Jlr. Maxwell Evarts for the Southern :Pacific Railroad Company. .r. L. -. Pays n was on his brief.
hXr. Joseph H Call for Bell, submitted on his brief.
MR. JUSTIcn BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
This case involves a priority of right to certain lands within
the indemnity limits of the grant to plaintiff by act of Congress
of July 27, 1866, as against a patent for the same lands issued to
the defendant as a settler under the land laws of the United
States.
It presents the single question whether the railroad company
had a right, on July 26, 1893, to select the land in dispute as
lieu lands, notwithstanding the defendant had nearly one year
before and on September 15, 1892, received a patent for the
same. This involves the further question whether the lands in
dispute were subject to preemption and sale after the filing of
the plat designating the line of the road; and this turns upon
the meaning of the words, "land hereby granted," used in sec-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. BELL.

679

Opinion of the Court.

tion 6, wherein it is enacted that the "odd sections of land
hereby granted shall not be liable to sale or entry or preemption,
before or after they are surveyed, except by said company, as
provided in this act," which language must also be construed
in connection with the further proviso in the same section, that
the pregmption act of 1841, the homestead act of 1862, and
the acts amendatory thereof, "shall be and the same are hereby
extended to all other lands on the line of said road when surveyed, excepting those hereby granted to said company."
There is no dispute that the land "hereby granted" extends
to all the odd-numbered sections within the place limits; that
is, within twenty miles of each side of the road. The real
question is whether it extends to the indemnity lands, ten miles
beyond this limit, so much of which the company was authorized
to select in lieu of lands unavailable to it within the granted
limits.
The relative rights of railroads and of settlers under these
Congressional grants, all of which are couched in similar language, have been the subject of much litigation in this court,
the main object of which has been to fix the time when the
right of the roads to particular lands within both the place
limits and the indemnity limits finally attaches as against both
prior and subsequent settlers. Although at the last term of
this court the question involved in the case under consideration
was practically settled in Hewitt v. Schultz, 180 U. S. 139, the
progressive steps by which the conclusion in that case was
reached will show the difficulties which have attended the solution of these questions, and, as we think, indicate the logical
necessity of affirming this case. Two objects have been kept
steadily in view: First, securing to the railroad the benefit of
the lands actually granted; second, protecting, as far as possible, the right of the public to lands not actually granted, or
necessary to indemnify the roads for lands which have become
unavailable to it within its granted limits, by reason of the fact
that they had been otherwise disposed of prior to the designation of the line of the road.
In the first of these cases, Sekulenberg v. Harriman,21 Wall.
44, it was held that the act of June 3, 1856, granting lands to

OCTOBER TER]A, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the State of Wisconsin, to aid in the construction of railroads,
was a grant in'erasentiof lands within the granted limits, and
passed the title to the odd sections designated to be afterwards
located; but, until such designation, the title did not attach to
any specific tracts, and that when the route was fixed the title
which was previously imperfect acquired precision, and became attached to the lands as of the date of the grant. There
was no question of indemnity lands involved.
In Leavenworta &c. Railroad Co. v. United States, 92 U. S.
733, it was held that a similar grant, though operating in prosenti, did not apply to lands set apart for the use of an Indian
tribe under a treaty, and that it was immaterial that they subsequently became a part of the public lands by the extinguishment of the Indian rights. This doctrine was extended in the
next case, .Sewhall v. Sanger, 92 U. S. 761, to lands within
the boundaries of an alleged Mexican or Spanish grant, which
was subjudiee at the time the Secretary of the Interior ordered
a withdrawal of lands along the route of the road.
In Ryan v. Railroad Company, 99 U. S. 382, the rule laid
down in the last two cases was qualified and limited to lands
within the place limits, and it was held that, as the lands in
Ryan v. Railroad Company were within the indemnity, but
not within the place limits, "the railroad company had not and
could not have any claim to it until specially selected." The
land in dispute was within a tract formerly covered by a Mexican claim, which, although subjudice at the date of the act,
had been finally rejected as invalid before the railroad company
had selected it as part of its lieu lands. When so selected "there
was no Mexican or other claim impending over it." This case
practically holds that the title to indemnity lands inures to the
railroad company only when selection is made.
This view, that the act conferred no rights to specified tracts
within the indemnity limits until the grantees' right of selection
had been exercised, was subsequently confirmed in Cedar Rapids
&c. Railroad Co. v. Herring, 110 U. S.27, and Kansas Pacifc
v. Atchison &e.Railroad,112 U. S.414, although it had been
stated only as a suggestion in Grinnell v. Railroad Company,
103 U. S.739.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v.BELL.

681

Opinion of the Court.

In 'Fan "Wycl v. Knevals, 106 U. S. 360, it was again held
that the grant of the place lands was in ptresenti, and attached
to the sections as soon as a map showing the definite location
of the road was filed, and that a party who had subsequently
entered a portion of the land covered by the grant, and procured a patent for the same, might be required to execute a release of the premises to the company. It was said by Mr. Justice Field, in that case, (p. 365,) that the grant cut off all subsequent claims from the date of this act, with certain exceptions
specifically named, and passed the title as fully as if they had
been then capable of identification.
The principle of this case was still further applied in St. Paul
& Sioux City Railroadv. Winona & St. Peter Railroad,112
U. S. 720, to two conflicting grants, and it was held that as
the title to the lands was within the place limits, it related
back, after the road was located, to the date of the grant, priority of date of the act of Congress, and not priority of location
of the line of the road, giving priority of title. A distinction
was drawn in this case between the land within the place limits and land within the indemnity limits and it was said that in
case of the latter neither priority of grant, nor priority of location, nor priority of construction gave priority of right; but
this was determined by priority of selection.
The case of Buttz v. NSortherrm Pacific Railroad,119 U. S.
55, is in seeming conflict with Zeavenworth &c. Railroad Co.
v. United States, 92 U. S. 733, inasmuch as it was held that the
grant by act of July 2, 1864, to the Northern Pacific Railroad,
of lands to which the Indian title had not been extinguished,
operated to convey the fee to the company subject to the right
of occupancy by the Indians; but the case is distinguishable,
as there was in the second section of the act a proviso that the
United States "should extinguish, as rapidly as might be consistent with public policy and the welfare of the Indians, their
title to all lands falling under the operation of this act, and
acquired in the donation to the road." The prior case was not
cited in the opinion.
The conclusions to be deduced from these cases are(1) That as to lands within the primary limits, the grant

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

takes immediate effect, and attaches to particular lands when
the map of definite location is filed; that the Secretary of the
Interior may, upon the filing of such map, give notice of a
withdrawal from sale of all the odd-numbered sections within
the granted limits, and that the title so acquired by the railroad company relates back to the date of the grant and takes
precedence of all titles subsequently acquired, except those
specifically named.
(2) That to lands within the indemnity limits, the company
takes no title until a deficiency in the place limits has been ascertained and the company has exercised its right of selection, -with
perhaps some rare exceptions. See St. Paul& Pacificv. Northern PaciXe, 139 U. S. 1.
The last case upon this subject is Hewitt v. Schultz, 180 U. S.
139, which involved the title to a quarter section of land in
North Dakota within the indemnity limits, that is (as applied to
Territories), between the forty and fifty-mile limits of the Northern Pacific Railroad land grant. Plaintiff Hewitt claimed title
as a settler under the pre6mption laws; defendant as a purchaser from the railroad company, under its grant of July 2,
1864, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365. The third and sixth sections of this
act were, except as to the name of the railroad and a few immaterial words, identical with the corresponding sections of the
Atlantic and Pacific act of July, 1866.
On March 30, 1872, the railroad company filed a map of its
general route through the Territory of Dakota, and the local
land office was thereupon directed to withhold from sale or location all the odd-numbered sections within the place limits of
forty miles, as designated on such map. On June 11, 1873, the
company having filed a map of the definite location of its line,
the local land office was directed to withhold from sale, or entry,
all the odd-numbered sections within thefifty-mile limits. This
action was taken pursuant to the practice at that time prevailing in the General Land Office.
The land in dispute was more than forty, but within fifty,
miles of the line of definite location ; that is, was within the indemnity limits, and the controlling question in the case was whether
it was competent for the Secretary of the Interior to withdraw

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v.BELL.

683

Opinion of the Court.

the odd-numbered sections within such indemnity limits; that
is, between the forty and fifty-mile limits.
Hewitt settled upon the land April 10, 1882, more than a year
before the withdrawal was made, and it was not until March 19,
1883, that the railroad company filed in the local land office its
selection of land, embracing the land in dispute within the indemnity limits.
On April 4, 1883, Hewitt submitted his final proofs for the
land, tendered the price, and demanded a patent; but his proof
was rejected on the ground that the land had been withdrawn
from entry under the act of July 2, 1864. Hewitt appealed to
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, who affirmed the
decision of the local land office, October 5, 1883. He was ousted
of his possession the following year by the defendant Schultz,
who had taken a deed from the railroad company. On August15
1887, the order of withdrawal of the indemnity lands was revoked,
and upon a review by the Commissioner of the General Land
Office of his former decision, the ruling of the local land office
was set aside, Hewitt's final proofs admitted, and the selection
by the railroad held for cancellation. The company appealed
from the decision in favor of Hewitt to the Secretary of the
Interior, who affirmed the decision of the Commissioner, and a
patent was issued to Hewitt, June 22, 1895.
It was contended upon the argument in this court that the
words "the odd sections of land hereby granted," used in the
sixth section, referred to the lands described in the "first" (third)
section of the act ; that is, to those within the place limits, which
were free from preemption and other claims, and unappropriated prior to the definite location of the road; and that, as to
"all other lands on the line of said road, when surveyed," the
act expressly declared that the preemption and homestead acts
should extend to them; "that Congress took pains to declare
that it did not exclude from the operation of those statutes
any lands except those granted to the company in the place
limits of the road which were unappropriated when the line of
the railroad was definitely fixed; and that if at the time such
line was 'definitely fixed,' it appeared that any of the lands
granted, that is, lands in the place limits, had been sold, granted

OCTOBER TERA1. 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

or otherwise appropriated, then, but not before, the company
was entitled to go into the indemnity limits beyond the fortymile and within the fifty-mile line, and under the direction of
the Secretary of the Interior, and not otherwise, select oddnumbered sections to the extent necessary to supply the loss
in the place limits."
The court, treating the question as one of grave doubt, based
its views largely upon the practice of the Land Office since 1888,
and of the opinions of Secretary Lamar in the Atlantic & _Pacifto Railroad,6 Land Dec. 84, and of Secretary Vilas in iYorthern Pacifc Railroadv. 3Jiller,7 Land Dec. 100. The opinion
of Secretary Lamar indicated that some of his predecessors had
assumed that the power to withdraw lands within the indemnity
limits could be exercised upon a definite location of the railroad before the loss in the place limits had been ascertained, but
treating it as an original proposition, he thought the words of
the act, "that the odd-numbered sections of land hereby granted
shall not be liable to sale, or entry, or preemption," indicated
clearly the legislative will that none other should be withdrawn
than the odd-numbered sections within the grantedlimits. Mr.
Secretary Vilas, considering the same subject, said: "In my
opinion, and it is with great deference that I present it, the
granting act not only did not authorize a withdrawal of lands
in the indemnity limits, but forbade it. The difference between lands in the granted limits and land in indemnity limits,
aud between the time and manner in which the title of the
United States changes to and vests in the grantee, accordingly
as lands are within one or the other of these limits, has been
clearly defined by the Supreme Court, and it is sufficient to
state the well-settled rules upon this subject."
The same question arose in H ortern Pacifto Railroad v.
,Davis,19 Land Dec. 87, and in 3orthern Paciflo Railroad v.
Ayers, wherein Secretaries Smith and Francis expressed their
concurrence in the views announced by Secretaries Lamar and
Vilas.
The court rested its decision largely upon this concurrence of
views and long continued practice of the Land Department, and
summed up its opinion in the following words: "If this were

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. BELL.

685

Opinion of the Court.

done," (that construction overthrown,) "it is to be apprehended
that great if not endless confusion would ensue in the administration of the public lands, and that the rights of a vast number
of people who have acquired under the preemption and homestead laws, in reliance upon the ruling of Secretary Vilas and
his successors in office, would be destroyed. . . . If the practice in the Land Department could, with reason, be held to be
wrong, it cannot be said to have been so plainly or palpably
wrong as to justify the court, after the lapse of so many years,
in adjudging that it had misconstrued the act of July 2, 18641."
It is attempted to distinguish the case under consideration
from that of llewitt v. Sciultz, by the fact that the land in controversy in this case is within the indemnity limits of a grant to
a railroad passing through a State, and within the department's
withdrawal of a thirty-mile strip under the sixth section of the
act, while the land in the Hewitt case fell within the indemnity
limits of the grant within a Ter'ritory,and was beyond the fortymile withdrawal, and was not withdrawn from sale by the sixth
section, but was expressly declared to be still subject to the
operations of the preemption laws. It is true that the lands
withdrawn in that case lay within a Territory and outside of the
forty-mile strip required to be surveyed, while in this case the
withdrawal of all the lands within the thirty-mile strip operates as
a withdrawal of all lands within the indemnity, as well as within
the place limits, because the line ran through a State instead of
a Territory. But the real question is not whether the indemnity
lands lay within or beyond the forty-mile limit, but whether
the withdrawal can operate upon indemnity lands at all. It
makes no difference in principle whether the indemnity lands are
within or beyond the forty-mile limit, which is not a limit of
withdrawal but of survey, and the whole argument in Hewitt v.
Schultz is directed to the question whether it is within the power
of a Secretary of the Interior to withdraw indemnity as well as
place lands from settlement. The quantity of lands to be surveyed seems to have been arbitrarily fixed by Congress, with
little attention to the actual limits of the grant, so as to include
all lands within forty miles of each side of the railroads, that is,
ten miles beyond the indemnity limits within the States, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ten miles inside of those limits within the Territories; but the
question of withdrawal is not necessarily dependent upon the
question of survey, and the fact that in that case the indemnity
lands were beyond the forty-mile limit was an incident rather
than a dominant fact. As said by Mr. Secretary Lamar: "It is
manifest that the said act gave no especial authority or direction
to the executive to withdraw said lands, and when such withdrawal was made it was done by virtue of the general authority
over such matters possessed by the Secretary of the Interior and
in the exercise of his discretion." The power of the Secretary
to withdraw lands is exercised for the purpose of carrying out
the grant to the railroad, and to prevent lands covered by said
grant from being taken up by settlers before the road is completed and the patents issued to the company; but clearly that
power cannot be exercised to withdraw lands which are beyond
the intended limits of the grant. It was said by Secretary Smith
to have been exercised for many years, "but the right of this
asserted power on the part of the executive is involved in obscurity."
Tarthern Pacift# R. R. v. Davis,19 Land Dec. 87, 88.
That the object of section six was to direct a survey and not
a withdrawal of lands within the forty-mile strip, seems to have
been the opinion of this court in St. Paul Railroadv. Winonma
Railroad,112 U. S. 7/20, in which M r. Justice Miller, delivering
the opinion says, (p. 732):
"The plaintiff in error insists that the map of its line of road
was filed in 1859. The court of original jurisdiction finds that,
up to the time of the trial in October, 1878, a period of nearly
twenty years, no selection of these lands had ever been made
by that company, or any one for it. Was there a vested right
in this company, during all this time, to have not only these
lands, but all the other odd sections within the twenty-mile
limits on each side of the line of the road, await its pleasure?
Had the settlers in that populous region no right to buy of the
government because the company might choose to take them,
or might, after all this delay, find out that they were necessary
to make up deficiencies in other quarters? How long were
such lands to be withheld from market and withdrawn from
taxation, and forbidden to cultivation?

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. BELL.

687

Opinion of the Court.

"It is true that in some cases the statute requires the Land
Department to withdraw the lands within these secondary
limits from the market, and in others the officers do so voluntarily. This, however, is to give the company a reasonable
time to ascertain their deficiencies and make their selections.
"It by no means implies a vested right in said company, inconsistent with the right of the government to sell, or of any
other company to select, which has the same right of selection
within those limits. Each company having this right of selection in such case, and having no other right, is bound to exercise that right with reasonable diligence; and when it is
exercised in accordance with the statute, it becomes entitled
to the lands so selected."
If the command of the statute were to withdraw from the
market, instead of survey, all odd-numbered sections within
the forty-mile strip, the position of the railroad company in
this case would be impregnable; but as the withdrawal only
extends to the lands "hereby granted," we must look elsewhere
to ascertain the meaning of those precise words. There is good
reason for withdrawing lands within the place limits, since
these lands already belong to the railroad company, as soon as
they are identified by the location of the line, while lands
within the indemnity limits may never be required at all, and
in most cases are required only to a limited extent. Undoubtedly the company acquires title to both classes of lands by the
third section of the granting act; but it acquires a title to lands
within the place limits by a present grant while to land within
the indemnity limits, only by a future power of selection. In
both cases the statute is the origin of the title; but in the one
case it gives instantaneously; in the other it is a mere promise
to give in the future, and requires the action of the railroad to
perfect it. The words "hereby granted" evidently refer to
the former.
Treating this case as a reargument of the question involved
in Hewitt v. Schultz, and it practically comes to that, we still
adhere to the principle there announced. It seems to us the
more reasonable, if not the necessary, inference to be deduced
from the language of sections 3 and 6. By the former there is

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.

Opinion of the Court.

"hereby granted . .
every alternate section of public land,
not mineral, designated by odd numbers, to the amount of
twenty alternate sections per mile on each side of said railroad
line, as said company may adopt, through the Territories of
the United States, and ten alternate sections of land per mile
on each side of said railroad whenever it passes through any
State." These words terminate the grant, the remainder of
the clause being immaterial in this connection, and if the whole
clause had been followed by a period, instead of a semicolon,
the meaning, perhaps, would have been clearer. But there follows another clause, that "whenever, prior to said time, any of
said sections, or parts of sections, shall have been granted, sold,
reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, or preempted, or
otherwise disposed of, other lands shall be 8elected by said company in lieu thereof, under the direction of the Secretary of
the Interior, in alternate sections, and designated by odd numbers, not more than ten miles beyond the limits of said alternate sections," etc. There is here a clear distinction between
the lands granted in prwsenti in the first clause, and lands to
be thereafter selected by the company, whenever the deficiency
in the granted lands shall be ascertained.
The sixth section carries out the same idea. It requires a
survey of forty miles in width on both sides of the entire line,
whether passing through States or Territories. This would include only the granted or place limits within a Territory, but
within a State would cover the indemnity limits as well. There
was no order in the act to withdraw any lands from settlement
or sale, but such withdrawal seems to have been made in pursuance of the practice of the Interior Department, and for the
purpose of preventing lands granted to the railroad company
from being taken up by settlers, before the completion of the
line and the final issue of patents. As was said by Mr. Secretary Lamar in the Atlantic & Pai~c Railroad Company, 6
Land Dec. 84, 88: " Waiving all questions as to whether or not
said granting act took from the Secretary all authority to withdraw said indemnity limits from settlement, it is manifest that
the said act gave no special authority or direction to the executive to withdraw said lands; and when such withdrawal was

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. BELL.

689

Opinion of the Court.

made it was made by virtue of the general authority over such
matters possessed by the Secretary of the Interior, and in the
exercise of his discretion; so that, were the withdrawal to be
revoked, no law would be violated, no contract broken." But
as the power to withdraw extends only to the "lands 7wreby
g'anted" and all other lands, except those hereby granted, remain open to settlement, we are thrown back upon section 3 to
determine what are the lands "hereby granted."
Now, as already observed, there is a clear distinction in section 3 between granted lands and lands to be selected after the
deficiency in the granted lands has been ascertained. It is true
that, prior to this selection being made, many of these indemnity lands may be taken up, and an insufficient amount left for
the railroad, (and we do not deny the force of the dissenting
opinion in Hewitt v. Shultz in that connection,) but we think
this possibility serves rather as a basis for a further action by
Congress, such as was made in the Northern Pacific case by the
joint resolution of May 31, 1870, (16 Stat. 378,) than as a reason
for withdrawing from settlement a vast amount of land which
the railroad may never have occasion to require. It was said
by Secretary Lamar in the case of the Atlantic & Pacific Railroad Co, 6 Land Dec. 84, 87: "As to the lands within the indemnity limits, the contract was based upon two contingencies;
that of losing lands within the granted limits, and being able to
find sufficient to indemify the company among the odd-numbered sections within a further limit of ten miles. Here the
interest of the company was so remote and contingent, being a
mere potentiality, and not a grant, that Congress declined to
order a withdrawal for the benefit of the same, or even a survey
within the Territories." In view of the constant trend of population toward the Western Territories, it is a serious matter to
withdraw these enormous tracts from settlement and hold them,
as it were, in mortmain against the protest of those who stand
ready to enter upon and possess them.
It becomes still more serious when, as in this case, there was
a delay of twenty-seven years between the granting act and the
act of selection. It seems intolerable that a settler, who had
entered and paid for lands in good faith, should be liable to an
VOL. OLXXXMl--44

OCTOBER TERMT, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

ouster after a possible lapse of twenty-seven years, when the
very improvements he may have put upon the lands might be
the reason for their selection by the company.
We are therefore of opinion that the act of July 27, 1866, did
not authorize the withdrawal by the Secretary of the Interior
of the indemnity lands; that such lands remained open to homestead and preemption entry, and that patents issued to settlers
within such indemnity limits, based upon the entries made prior
to the selection by the railroad company, approved by the Interior Department, were valid as conveyances of the land as
against the selection by the railroad company.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California is, therefore,
Affirmed.

GROECK v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPAN-Y.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE NINTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 82. Argued December 5, 6, 1901. -Decided

January 13,1902.

This case was argued and submitted with Southern Pacific Railroad Company v. Bell, ante, 675, and by the same counsel, resembles that in all
essential particulars, and is controlled by it.

THIS was a bill in equity filed in the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of California by the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company, plaintiff, against Otto Groeck and another, defendants, to obtain a decree declaring the company to be the rightful owner of the south half of a certain quarter section of land
in Kings County, California, and that defendants hold the legal
title thereto in trust for it, a conveyance of which was prayed.,
The amended bill, as abstracted by the Circuit Court of Appeals, (87 Fed. Rep. 970,) alleged: "That the appellant accepted
the terms of the grant, fixed the general route of its road as contemplated by the act, and on January 3,1867, filed a map thereof

