OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

ORR v. GILMAN.
ERROR TO THE SURROGATE'S COURT OF THE COUNTY-OF NEW YORP.
No. 351.

Argued November 25, 26, 1901.-Decided January 6,1902.

The provisions of subdivision 5 of the tax law of the State of New York,
which became a law April 16, 1897, are not in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution, nor of section 10 of article 1 of the Constitution.
The opinion in Carpenter v. Pennsylvania, 17 How. 456, although decided
before the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution,
correctly defines the limits of jurisdiction between the State and the
Federal governments, in respect to the control of the estates of decedents, both as they were regarded before the adoption of the Fourteenth
Amendment, and have since been regarded.
The holding of the Court of Appeals of New York, that it was the execution of the power of appointment which subjected grantees under it to
the transfer tax, is binding upon this court.
The Court of Appeals did not err when it held that a transfer or succession
tax, not being a direct tax upon property, but a charge upon a privilege,
exercised or enjoyed under the laws of the State, does not, when imposed
in cases where the property passing consists of securities exempt by statute, impair the obligation of a contract within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States.
The view of the Court of Appeals in this case must be accepted by this
court as an accurate statement of the law of the State.

- DAvD Dows, Senior, a citizen and resident of the city and
State of New York, died March 30, 1890, leaving a last will
and testament, which was duly admitted to probate by the Surrogate's Court of New York County on April 14, 1890. The
will provided that the legal title to the property mentioned and
described in the sixth clause thereof should vest in the executors' names as trustees during the lifetime of testator's son,
David Dows, Jr., with power to manage and control the
same, and with the duty to pay the net income therefrom to
said David Dows, Jr. The will further provided that upon
the death of David Dows, Jr., the property should vest absolutely and at once in such of his children him surviving, and

the issue of his deceased children as he should by his last will

ORR v. GILMAN.
Statement of the Case.

and testament designate and appoint, and in such manner and
upon such terms as he might legally impose. In and by the
eighth clause or paragraph of his said will, David Dows, Senior,
devised and bequeathed the legal title to his residuary estate to
his executors as trustees, to hold and manage the same, one
eighth part in trust during the lifetime of testator's widow,
and one-eighth part in trust for each of testator's seven children-one of whom was the said David Dows, Jr. It was
made the duty of the trustees to pay over the net income to
the respective persons named during their respective lives, and
it was provided that, upon the death of each of said persons,
the said one eighth part of the residuary estate, with any accumulations'and profits, should vest absolutely and at once
in such of his or her children, or the issue of such children, as
he or she might by his or her last will and testament designate
and appoint, and in such manner and upon such terms as he or
she may legally impose. It was provided, in both the sixth and
eighth clauses, that if the legatee for life shall die intestate, then
the property should vest absolutely and at once in his or her children surviving, share and share alike.
David Dows, Junior, died January 13, 1899, leaving a last
will and testament, which was duly admitted to probate bythe
Surrogate's Court of Westchester County, New York, by the
third paragraph or clause whereof, in the exercise of the power
of appointment given him in his father's will, he provided that
the property mentioned and described in the said sixth and
eighth clauses of the will of David Dows, Senior, should vest
upon his death in his three children, David, Robert and Kemeth,
in a manner therein described.
On October 31, 1900, Bird S. Coler, Comptroller of the city
of New York, and Theodore P. Gilman, Comptroller of the
State of New York, filed a petition in the Surrogate's Court of
New York County, in which, after reciting the foregoing facts,
they alleged that the transfer of funds and property of which
David Dows, Junior, bad the life use and over which he had
exercised the power of appointment given him in his father's
will, was taxable, and they therefore prayed for the appointment of a transfer tax appraiser, in order that the transfer tax

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

might be duly assessed and imposed. Thereupon Charles K.
Lexow was so appointed, and on January 31,1901, after having
given notice to the said Comptrollers and to the executors and
trustees of the last will of David Dows, Senior, and to the
executors of the last will of David Dows, Junior, and to the
guardians of the minor children of David Dows, Junior, the appraiser filed in the Surrogate's office a report of his valuation
of the interests of the three sons of David Dows, Junior, under
the respective wills of their father and grandfather. Certain
exceptions to this report were filed on behalf of the executors
and guardians, the nature of which will hereafter appear. Thereafter, on February 15, 1901, the Surrogate, on the basis of the
report of the said appraiser, assessed a transfer tax of upwards
of $7000 against each of the respective interests of the three
sons of David Dows, Junior. The exceptions to the appraiser's
report and to the assessment were, on March 6, 1901, after argument by counsel, overruled, and the Surrogate entered the
following order and judgment:
"It is ordered, adjudged and decreed that said report and
order so appealed from be and they are hereby affirmed, and
that the date when the transfers now taxed were affected was
January 13, 1899, that date being fixed because it was the date
of the death of David Dows, Junior, the donee of the power
contained in the will of David Dows, Senior."
An appeal was taken from the order and decree of the Surrogate to the appellate division of the Supreme Court of New
York, and by that court, on March 22, 1901, the order of the
Surrogate was affirmed. On appeal duly taken, the Court of
Appeals of the State of New York, on May 17, 1901, affirmed
the order and judgment of the appellate division of the Supreme
Court, and the judgment of the said Court of Appeals and the
record of the proceedings were remitted into the Surrogate's
Court of New York, to be enforced according to law, and the
judgment of the Court of Appeals was on May 28, 1901, made
the judgment and order of the Surrogate's Court. And on
June 13, 1901, a writ of error to that judgment was allowed,
and the cause was brought to this court.

ORR v. GILMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

-y. Horace E. Deming for plaintiffs in error.

.r. Julius

Henry Cohen was on his brief.
Mr. Jabish Holmes, r., for defendants in error.
J -Levey was on his brief.
MR. JUSTIOE

.r'.

Edgar

SmR~s delivered the opinion of the court.

This is the case of a so-called transfer tax imposed under the
laws of the State of New York. The various contentions of
the plaintiffs in error, attacking the validity of the tax, were
overruled by the courts of the State, and the cause is now before us on the general proposition that by the proceedings the
plaintiffs in error, or those whom they represent as trustees and
guardians, have been deprived of the equal protection of the
laws of the State of New York, their privileges and immunities
as citizens of the United States have been abridged, and their
property taken without due process of law, in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, and likewise, as to a portion of the property affected,
in violation of section 10 of article I of the Constitution of the
United States.
The first question presented arises out of subdivision 5 of section 220 of the tax law of the State of New York, which reads
as follows:
"5. Whenever any person, or corpbration, shall exercise a
power of appointment, derived from any disposition of property, made either before or after the passage of this act, such
appointment, when made, shall be deemed a transfer, taxable,
under the provisions of this act, in the same manner as though
the property, to which such appointment relates, belonged absolutely to the donee of such power, and had been bequeathed,
or devised, by such donee by will; and whenever any person,
or corporation, possessing such a power of appointment, so derived, shall omit, or fail, to exercise the same within the time
provided therefor, in whole or in part, a transfer, taxable under the provisions of this act, shall be deemed to take place to
the extent of such omissions, or failure, in the same manner as

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

though the persons, or corporations, thereby becoming entitled
to the possessions, or enjoyment of the property to which such
power related, had succeeded thereto, by a will of the donee,
of the power failing to exercise such power, taking effect at
the time of such omission, or failure."
This enactment became a law on April 16, 1897. David
Dows, Senior, died IMarch 30, 1890, leaving a will containing a
power of appointment to his son, David Dows, Junior, which
will was duly admitted to probate by the Surrogate's Court on
April 14, 1890. David Dows, Junior, died on January 13,1899,
leaving a will, in which he exercised the power of appointment
given him in the will of his father, and apportioned the pfoperty, which was the subject of the power, among his three sons,
who are represented in this litigation by the plaintiff in error.
It is claimed that, under the law of the State of INew York
as it stood at the time of his death, in 1890, David Dows, Senior, had a legal right to transfer, by will, his property or any
interest therein, to his grandchildren, without any diminution,
or impairment, then imposed by the law of the State upon the
exercise of that right; that his said grandchildren acquired
vested rights in the property so transferred, and that the subsequent law, whose terms have been above transcribed, operates to
diminish and impair those vested rights. In other words, it is
claimed that it is not competent for the State, by a subsequent
enactment, to exact a price or charge for a privilege lawfully
exercised in 1890, and to thus take from the grandchildren a
portion of the very property the full right to which had vested
in them many years before.
We here meet, in the first place, the question of the construction of the will of David Dows, Senior. Under and by virtue
of that will, did the property, whose transfer is taxed, pass to
and become vested in the grandchildren, or did the property
not become vested in them until and by virtue of the will of
David Dows, Junior, exercising the power of appointment?
The answer to be given to this question must, of course, be that
atmer of
furnished us by the Court of Appeals in this case.
Dows, 167 N. Y. 22?:
".Whatever be the technical source of title of a grantee under

ORR v. GILMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

a power of appointment, it cannot be denied that, in reality and
substance, it is the execution of the power that gives the grantee
the property passing under it. The will of Dows, Senior, gave
his son a power of appointment, to be exercised only in a particular manner, to wit, by last will and testament. If, as said
by the Supreme Court of the United States, the right to take
property by devise is not an inherent or natural right, but a
privilege accorded by the State, which it may tax or charge for,
it follows that the request of a testator to make a will or testamentary instrument is equally a privilege and equally subject to
the taxing power of the State. When David Dows, Senior, devised this property to the appointees under the will of his son
he necessarily subjected it to the charge that the State might
impose on the privilege accorded to the son of making a will.
That charge is the same in character as if it had been laid on the
inheritance of the estate of the son himself, that is, for the
privilege of succeeding to property under a will."
It will be perceived that, in putting this construction upon
the will of David Dows, Senior, the Court of Appeals not merely
construed the words of the will but, by implication, applied to
the case the provisions of the subdivision 5 of section 220, under
which the transfer tax in question was imposed, and thus construed that tax law and affirmed its validity.
While it is settled law that this court will follow the construction put by the state courts upon wills devising property situated
within the State, and while it is also true that we adopt the
construction of its own statutes by the state courts, a question
may remain whether the statute, as so construed, imports a violation of any of the rights secured by applicable provisions of
the Constitution of the United States. And such is the contention here.
This court has no authority to revise the statutes of New York
upon any grounds of justice, policy or consistency to its own
constitution. Such questions are concluded by the decision of
the legislative and judicial authorities of the State.
In Carpenter v. Pennsylvania,17 Iow. 456, the question
arose as to the validity, in its Federal aspect, of a law of the
State of Pennsylvania imposing an inheritance tax on personal

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

property which had passed into the possession of an executor
before the passage of the act, and which was held by him for
the purpose of distribution among the legatees, who were collateral relatives to the decedent. The act was held valid by the
Supreme Court of the State, and was brought up to this court
by a writ of error, where it was contended that such an act was
in its nature an ex postfacto law, which took the property of an
individual to the use of the State, because of a fact which had
occurred prior to the passage of the law, and also that the law,
in its retroactive effect, impaired the obligation of a contract,
in that it was alleged to absolve the executor from his contract,
implied in law, to pay over the legacies to those entitled to them,
just to the extent that the law required him to pay to the State.
The opinion of the court, delivered by Mr. Justice Campbell,
was, in part, as follows:
"The validity of the act, as affecting successions to open after
its enactment, is not contested; nor is the authority of the State
to levy taxes upon personal property belonging to its citizens,
but situated beyond its limits, denied. But the complaint is
that the application of the act to a succession already in the
course of settlement, and which had been appropriated by the
last will of decedent, involved an arbitrary change of the existing laws of inheritance to the extent of this tax, in the sequestration of that amount for the uses of the State; that the rights
of the residuary legatees were vested at the death of the testator,
and from that time those persons were non-residents, and the
property taxed was also beyond the State; and that the State
has employed its power over the executor and the property
within its borders, to accomplish a measure of wrong and injustice; that the act contains the imposition of a forfeiture or
penalty, and is ex postfacto.

"It is, in some sense, true that the rights of donees under a
will are vested at the death of the testator; and that the acts of
administration which follow are conservatory means, directed
by the State to ascertain those rights, and to accomplish an
effective translation of the dominion of the decedent to the
objects of his bounty; and the legislation adopted with any
other aim than this would justify criticism, and perhaps censure.

ORR v. GILMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

But, until the period for distribution arrives, the law of the
decedent's domicil attaches to the property, and all other jurisdictions refer to the place of the domicil as that where the
distribution should be made. The will of the testator is proven
there, and his executor receives his authority to collect the property, by the recognition of the legal tribunals of that place.
The personal estate, so far as it has a determinate owner, belongs
to the executor thus constituted. The rights of the donee are
subordinate to the conditions, formalities and administrative
control, prescribed by the State in the interests of its public
order, and are only irrevocably established upon its abdication
of this control at the period of distribution. If the State, during
this period of administration and control by its tribunals and
their appointees, thinks fit to impose a tax upon the property,
there is no obstacle in the Constitution and laws of the United
States to prevent it. Ennis v. Smith, 14 How. 400.
"The act of 1860, in enlarging the operation of the act of
1826, and by extending the language of that act beyond its
legal import, is retrospective in its form; but its practical
agency is to subject to assessment property liable to taxation,
to answer an existing exigency of the State, and to be collected
in the course of future administration; and the language retlrospective is of no importance, except to describe the property to
be included in the assessment. And as the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania has well said, 'in establishing its peculiar interpretation, it (the legislature) has only done indirectly what it
was competent to do directly.' But if the act of 1850 involved
a change in the law of succession, and could be regarded as a
civil regulation for the division of the estates of unmarried persons having no lineal heirs, and not as a fiscal imposition, this
court could not pronounce it to be an exp ost facto law within
the tenth section of the nineteenth article of the Constitution.
The debates in the Federal convention upon the Constitution
show that the terms 'expostfacto laws,' were understood in a
restricted sense, relating to criminal cases only, and that the
description of Blackstone of such laws was referred to for their
meaning. 3 Mad. Pap. 1399, 1450, 1579.) This signification
was adopted in this court shortly after its organization, in opin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ions carefully prepared, and has been repeatedly announced
since that time. Calder v. Bull,3 Dall. 386; Fletcher v. Peck,
6 Cranch, 87; 8 Pet. 88; 11 Pet. 421."
It is true that this case was decided before the adoption of
the Fourteenth Amendment, but we think it correctly defines
the limits of jurisdiction between the state and Federal governments in respect to the control of the estates of decedents, both
as they were regarded before and have been regarded since the
adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment. It has never been
held that it was the purpose or function of that amendment to
change the systems and policies of the States in regard to the
devolution of estates, or to the extent of the taxing power over
them.
In n re emmler, 136 U. S. 436, it was stated by the present
Chief Justice that"The Fourteenth Amendment did not radically change the
whole theory of the relations of the state and Federal governments to each other, and of both governments to the people.
The same person may be at the same time a citizen of the United
States and a citizen of a State. Protection to life, liberty, and
property rests primarily with the States, and the amendment
furnishes an additional guaranty against any encroachment by
the States upon those fundamental rights which belong to citizenship, and which the state governments were created to secure.
The privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States,
as distinguished from the privileges and immunities of citizens
of the States, are indeed protected by it; but those are privileges and immunities arising out of the nature and essential
character of the national government, and granted or secured
by the Constitution of the United States. United States v.
Cruikshank,92 U. S.542; SlaughterHouses Cases, 16 Wall. 36."
It was said in De -Vaughn v. Hutchinson, 165 U. S.566, that
"It is a principle firmly established that to the law of the State
in which the land is situated we must look for the rules which
govern its descent, alienation and transfer, and for the effect
and construction of wills and other conveyances."
In Clarke v. Olarke, 178 U. S.186,- the proposition was again
announced, as one requiring only to be stated, that the law of

ORR v. GILMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

a State in which land is situated controls and governs its transmission by will or its passage in case of intestacy, and that in
this court the local law of a State is the law of that State as
announced by its court of last resort.
In .]agoun v. Illinois T rust Co., 170 U. S. 283, the validity
of a law of the State of Illinois imposing a legacy and inheritance tax, the rate progressing by the amount of the beneficial
interest acquired, was assailed in the courts of Illinois as being
in violation of the constitution of that State, requiring equal
and uniform taxation. The state court having decided that
the progressive feature did not violate the constitution of that
State, the case came to this court upon the contention that
the establishment of a progressive rate was a denial both of due
process of law and of the equal protection of the laws within the
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.
But these contentions were held by this court to be untenable.
See, likewise, KnowZton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, and Plummer
v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115, wherein were considered the nature of
inheritance tax laws and the extent of the powers of the States
and of Congress in imposing and regulating them.
In the light of the principles thus established we are unable
to see in this legislation of the State of New York, as construed
by its highest court, any infringement of the salutary provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment. There are involved no
arbitrary or unequal regulations, prescribing different rates of
taxation on property or persons in the same condition. The
provisions of the law extend alike to all estates that descend
or devolve upon the death of those who once owned them.
The moneys raised by the taxation are applied to the lawful
uses of the State, in which the legatees have the same interests
with the other citizens. Nor is it claimed that the amount or
rate of the taxation is excessive to the extent of confiscation.
But, it is further urged, that the tax law of the State of New
York, section 221, expressly exempts from taxation, or charge,
all real estate passing to lineal descendants by descent or devise,
and all such descendants so taking title to real estate from
ancestors, and it is said that under the interpretation of this
law by the courts of the State of New York all property which

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

was real estate at the time of the death of the person owning
it continues, as to the lineal descendants, to be real estate, and
is therefore exempt from taxation, though such descendants
may not enter into possession and enjoyment of the property
until years after the death of the ancestor who owned it, and
the property in the meantime has been converted into cash or
securities.
It is true that the property described in the sixth paragraph
of the will of David Dows, Senior, was real estate, but under
the powers conferred in the will of David Dows, Senior, the
trustees had converted the real estate and held the proceeds
as personal property before the death of David Dows, Junior,
and it was this personal property which became vested in the
grandchildren under the exercise of the power of appointment.
The Court of Appeals held that it was the execution of the
power of appointment which subjected grantees under it to
the transfer tax. This conclusion is binding upon this court
in so far as it involves a construction of the will and of the
statute. Nor are we able to perceive that thereby the plaintiffs in error were deprived of any rights under the Federal
Constitution. The rule of law laid down by the New York
courts is applicable to all alike, and even if the view of the
Court of Appeals respecting the question was wrong, it was an
error which we have no power to review.
Another objection made to the judgment of the Court of
Appeals, affirming the Surrogate's order, is that the tax imposed upon transfers made under a power of appointment is a
tax upon property and not on the right of succession, and that,
as a portion of the fund was invested in incorporated companies
liable to taxation on their own capital, and in certain bonds of
the State of New York, and in bonds of the city of New York
exempt by statute from taxation, such exemption formed part of
the contract under which said securities were purchased, and
the tax imposed and the proceedings to enforce it were in
violation of section 10 of article 1 of the Constitution of the
United States forbidding the States to pass laws impairing the
obligation of contracts.
The Court of Appeals overruled the proposition that the

ORR v. GILMAN.

Opinion of the Court.

transfer tax in question was a tax upon property and not upon
the right of succession, and held that when David Dows, Senior,
devised this property to the appointees under the will of his
son he necessarily subjected it to the charge that the State
might impose on the privilege accorded to the son of making a
will and that the charge is the same in character as if it had
been laid on the inheritance of the estate of the son himself,
that is, for the privilege of succeeding to property under a
will.
In reaching this conclusion the Court of Appeals cited not
only various New York cases but several decisions of this court,
the principles of which were thought to be applicable. .kfagoun
v. Illinois Trust Co., 1'(0 U. S. 283; Plummer v. Coler, 178
U. S. 115 ; KYnowlton v. _Afoore, 178 U. S. 41; Jurdocek v. Ward,
178 U. S. 139.

We think it unnecessary to enter upon another discussion of
a subject so recently considered in the cases just cited, and that
it is sufficient to say that, in our opinion, the Court of Appeals
did not err when it held that a transfer or succession tax, not
being a direct tax upon property, but a charge upon a privilege
exercised or enjoyed under the law of the State, does not, when
imposed in cases where the property passing consists of securities exempt by statute, impair the obligation of a contract within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States.
A further contention is made that the legatees or devisees of
the remainders created by the will of David Dows, Junior, are
not legally subject to taxation until the precedent estates terminate and the remainders vest in possession.
The Court of Appeals held that the doctrine invoked had no
application to the remainders given to the sons of David Dows,
Junior; that they are absolute and not subject to be divested
or to fail in any contingency whatever; that by statute they
are alienable, devisable, descendible, and if the property were
real estate, they could be sold on execution against their
owners; that by the aid of the table of annuities, upon the
faith of which large sums are constantly distributed by the
courts, the present value of these remainders is capable of ready
VOL. cLxxxIII-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

computation; and that, therefore, they are subject to present
taxation.
These views of the Court of Appeals must be accepted by us
as accurate statements of the law of the State; and though it is
claimed in the brief of counsel for the plaintiffs in error that
such a construction of the transfer tax law brings it into conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States, we are unable to approve such a contention.
The subject dealt with is one of state law, expounded by state
courts. The laws and the construction put upon them apply
equally to all persons in a like suitation, and cannot be regarded
as conflicting with the provisions of the Federal Constitution.
Magoun v. Plinois Trust (Co., 170 U. S. 283.

Other contentions made in the brief of counsel for the plaintiffs in error seem, so far as our jurisdiction is concerned, to be
phases of those heretofore considered and thereby disposed of.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals of the State of New
York affirming the judgment of the Surrogate's Court of New
York County is
Aflrmed.
TVP. Jusin-. HARLAN concurred in the result.

SCHRIMPSCHER v. STOCKTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 19. Argued November 22, 1901.-Decided January 6,1902.
The deed of an Indian, who has received a patent of land providing that it
should never be sold or conveyed by the patentee or his heirs without the
consent of the Secretary of the Interior, is void, and the statutes of limitation do not run against the Indian or his heirs so long as the condition
of incompetency remains; but where it appeared that by treaty subsequent to the deed, all restrictions upon the sales of land by incompetent
Indians or their heirs, were removed, it was held that from this time the
statute of limitations began to run against the grantor and his heirs.

