OCTOBER TERAI, 1901.
Counsel for Parties.

HASELTINE v. CENTRAL BANK OF SPRINGFIELD,
MISSOURI (NO. 1).
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
1No.62. Submitted October 29, 1901.-Decided December 2,1901.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of a State reversing that of the court
below, and remanding the case for further proceedings to be had therein,
is not a final judgment, nor is this court at liberty to consider whether
such judgment was an actual final disposition of the merits of the case.
The face of the judgment is the test of its finality.

THIS was an action brought originally in the Circuit Court

for Greene County, Missouri, by the Ilaseltines against the Central National Bank, to recover double the amount of certain
alleged usurious interest paid by the plaintiffs to defendant,
and which they sought to recover under the second clause of
Rev. Stat. sec. 5198, providing that "in case the greater rate
of interest has been paid, the person by whom it has been paid,
or his legal representatives, may recover back, in an action in
the nature of an action of debt, twice the amount of the interest
thus paid from the association taking or receiving the same."
The trial court rendered judgment in favor of the plaintiffs
for $831.70. From this judgment defendant appealed to the
Supreme Court of the State, which reversed the judgment of the
trial court upon the ground that the plaintiffs had neither paid
nor tendered the principal sum due, and remanded the cause
"for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity with
the opinion of this court herein delivered."
Defendant moved to dismiss the writ of error upon the ground
that this was not a final judgment.
.r.S. A. Haseltine and .J1&. 7ames BakTer for plaintiffs in
error.
.Yr. John Ridout for defendant in error.

HASELTINE v. CENT. BK. OF SPRINGFIELD, (NO. 1). 131
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JusTi- BRowx delivered the opinion of the court.

The motion to dismiss must be granted. We have frequently
held that a judgment reversing that of the court below, and
remanding the case for further proceedings, is not one to which
a writ of error will lie. The case of -Mowerv. Fletcher, 114
U. S. 127, is not in point, as the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the State remanded that case to the inferior court with an
order to enter a specified judgment, nothing being left to the
judicial discretion of the court below. A like ruling was made
in Atherton v. Fowler, 91 U. S. 143, and Commissionersof
Tippecanoe County v. Luca, 93 U. S. 108.
While the judgment may dispose of the case as presented, it
is impossible to anticipate its ultimate disposition. It may be
voluntarily discontinued, or it may happen that the defeated
party may amend his pleading by supplying some discovered defect, and go to trial upon new evidence. To determine whether,
in a particular case, this may or may not be done, might involve
an examination, not only of the record, but even of the evidence
in the court of original jurisdiction, and lead to inquiries with
regard to the actual final disposition of the case by the Supreme
Court, which it might be difficult to answer. We have, therefore, always made the face of the judgment the test of its finality,
and refused to inquire whether, in case of a new trial, the defeated party would stand in a position to make a better case.
The plaintiffs in the case under consideration could have secured
an immediate review by this court, if the court as a part of its
judgment of reversal had ordered the Circuit Court to dismiss
their petition, when, under .ower v.-Fletcher,they might have
sued out a writ of error at once.
]XcComb v. ]rnox County Commissioners, 91 U. S. 1, is a case
in point. That was a writ of error to the Court of Common
Pleas of the State of Ohio. The case had been taken to the
Supreme Court of the State, where the judgment of the Common Pleas was reversed for error in sustaining a demurrer to
the replies, and overruling that to the answer. Upon suggestion by defendant that he might ask leave to amend his answer,
the case was remanded "for further proceedings according to

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

law."

Upon the mandate being filed, defendant did not ask

leave to amend his answer, but elected to rely upon his defence
already made. Thereupon the court gave judgment against
him, and he sued out a writ of error from this court. We held
that the judgment of the Supreme Court, being one of reversal
only, was not final; that so far from putting an end to the litigation, it purposely left it open; that the law of the case upon
the pleadings as they stood was settled, but ample power was
left in the Common Pleas to permit the parties to make a new
case by amendment; that the final judgment was that of the
Common Pleas; that "it may have been the necessary result of
the decision of the question presented for its determination; but
it is none the less, on that account, the act of the Common
Pleas," and was,owhen rendered, open to review by the Supreme
Court. The writ was dismissed. A similar case is that of
Great Western Telegraph Co. v. Burnham, 162 U. S. 339.
This writ of error is therefore dismissed upon the authority
of Brown v. Union Bank of Florida,4 How. 465; Pepper v.
-Dunlap,5 How. 51; Tracy v. ioleombe, 24 H1ow. 426; MAoore
v. iobbins, 18 Wall. 588; St. Clair Co. v. Lovingston, 18 Wall.
628; Parcels v. Johnson, 20 Wall. 653; Baker v. White, 92
U. S. 176; Bostwick v. Brinkerhof, 106 U. S. 3; Johnson v
JYeith, 117 U. S. 199.
-Dismissed.

HASELTINE v. CENTRAL BANK OF SPRINGFIELD,
MISSOURI (NO. 2).
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 63. Submitted October 29, 1901.-Decided December 2, 1901.

In an action upon a note given to a national bank, the maker cannot set off,
or obtain credit for, usurious interest paid in cash upon the renewals of.
such note, and others of which it was a consolidation.
In cases arising under the second clause of Rev. Stat. sec. 5198, the person
by whom the usurious interest has been paid can only recover the same
back in an action in the nature of an action of debt. The remedy given
by the statute is exclusive.

