OCTOBER TERMI,

1901.

Statement of the Case.

MIDWAY COMPANY v. EATON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 80. Argued December 4, 5, 1901.-Decided January 13, 1902.
Under the act of July 17, 1854, c. 83, 10 Stat. 304, Sioux half-breed certificates were issued to Orillie Strain, a female half-breed, authorizing her
to select and take one hundred and sixty acres of the public lands of the
United States, of the classes mentioned in said act. In June, 1883, she,
through Eaton, her attorney in fact, applied at the local land office to locate the same on public lands of the United States, in that district, then
unsurveyed, and filed a diagram of the desired lands sufficient to designate them. Those lands were not reserved by the Government. Subsequently they were surveyed, and the scrip was located upon them, and
the locations were allowed, and certificates of entry were issued. In
1886, Orillie Stram and her husband conveyed seven ninths of the land to
Eaton, the defendant in error. In 1889, an opposing claim to the land
having been set up, the Secretary of the Interior held, for reasons stated
in the opinion of this court in this case, that the opposing claimants had
no valid claim to the lands; that the improvements made upon the land
when it was unsurveyed, not having been made under the personal supervision of Orillie Stram, she had not had the personal contact with the
land required by law; that the power given to Eaton to locate the land,
and the power given to sell it, as they operated as an assignment of the
scrip, were in violation of the act of July 17, 1854, and that it followed
that the entry of the lands was not for the benefit of Orillie Stram ; that
the location and adjustment of the scrip to the lands were ineffectual ;
that Orillie Stram had no power to alienate or contract for the alienation of
the lands, before location of the scrip, and that the lands were still
public lands and open to entry. This was an action to quiet the title,
the plaintiff in error claiming adversely to Eaton. The scrip locations
were adjudged by the district court and by the Supreme Court of the
State of Minnesota to be valid. This court sustains that judgment.

THIS is an action to quiet title, and was brought in the district

court in the eleventh judicial district, county of St. Louis, State
of Minnesota.
The plaintiff in error claims title under a United States patent
issued to its grantor, one Frank Hicks, upon a homestead settlement. The defendants in error claim under locations of what
is commonly known as "Sioux half-breed scrip," issued under

MIDWAY COMPANY v. EATON.
Statement of the Case.

the act of July 17, 1854, c. 83, 10 Stat. 304. These locations, it
is alleged, were prior in time and right to the claim of Hicks,
and therefore the patent was illegally issued to Hicks. It was
prayed that the title represented by the patent be adjudged to
be held in trust for the defendants in error, and that the plaintiff in error be required to convey such title to them in proportion to their interests set forth in their cross bill.
The controversy turns upon the validity of the scrip locations.
Their validity was adjudged by the district court, and by the
Supreme Court of the State. 79 Minnesota, 442. This writ of
error was then sued out.
The facts as found by the court are: That under the act of
July 17, 1854, and in pursuance of said act, there were issued
to Orillie Moreau certificates commonly known as Sioux halfbreed scrip numbered 19E and 19D, which entitled her to select
and take one hundred and sixty. acres of the public lands of the
United States of the classes mentioned in said act; " that thereafter, and on the 16th day of June, A. D. 1883, the said Orillie
Moreau, then Orillie Stran, never bavingtheretofore made use of
the said certificates of scrip, and the same never having been
in any manner extinguished or satisfied, through the defendant
Frank W. Eaton, who had theretofore been by her duly empowered as her attorney in fact for that purpose, presented said
scrip at the local land office in Duluth, Minnesota, and then and
there made application to locate the same on certain then unsurveyed lands of the United States in said district in which said
land office was located, and did then and there enter and file
upon by virtue of said scrip the lands for which said application was made as aforesaid, and fied therewith a diagram or
plat of said land embracing a sufficient description thereof to
properly designate the same, which lands were in said application described by metes and bounds;" and that the same were
"lands not reserved by the Government of the United States
for any purpose whatsoever ;" and also that "prior to the location of said scrip upon said land as above found improvements
had been made thereon, consisting of a house 14 by 16 feet, by
and under the authority of the said Frank W. Eaton."
On the 20th of July, 1885, the lands having been duly sur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

veyed, a plat and survey of the township in which the lands
were situated were "duly filed in the local land office at the
city of Duluth, Minnesota, and thereupon and on the 21st day
of July, 1885, upon application of the said Orillie Stram, acting
by and through her said attorney in fact, said certificate of
Sioux half-breed scrip number 19D was adjusted to and upon
the lands in controversy," (they were specifically described,)
and the scrip was then and there duly located upon said lands
as surveyed lands, and the locations were allowed by the officers
of the local land office at Duluth, there not being at that time
nor at the time the scrip was located upon the lands when unsurveyed, nor at any other time, any valid adverse claim to
said lands; and on the 21st of July, 1885, receiver's final receipts and certificates of entry were duly and regularly issued
to said Orillie Stram, and duly and regularly recorded in the
counties of Lake and St. Louis, Minnesota, within a few days
thereafter.
The "rights and interests" of Orillie Stram, by sundry mesne
conveyances, were conveyed to the defendants in the proportions respectively as follows: "Frank W. Eaton, the undivided
13-36; Merrill Mr. Clark, the undivided 9-36; Margaretha
Lonstorf, the undivided 8-36, and Richard H. Fagan, the undivided 6-36, and the said defendants are still the owners of
the said lands in said proportions."
That on the 20th of July, 1885, one Thomas Hyde and one
Angus McDonald respectively made application to make preemption filings on portions of the lands in controversy, which
applications were denied both on the ground of the prior locations of the scrip and that the applications were not made in
good faith, but in fraud, and in violation of the pre6mption
laws. And it was determined by the local land office and sustained by the Commissioner of the General Laud Office, and
by the Secretary of the Interior, that neither Hyde nor McDonald ever had or obtained any rights whatsoever by reason
of their application or any subsequent proceedings; but, notwithstanding, said Hyde and said McDonald "made an attack
upon the said decisions of the Land Department some time in
November, 1885, and upon the location of the said certificates

MIDWAY COMPANY v. EATON.
Statement of the Case.

of scrip and the entry of, lands thereunder." A hearing was
had on the 6th of April, 1886, and the local land officers sustained the scrip locations. An appeal was taken to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and he held "adversely
to the scrip locations." An appeal was then taken to the Secretary of the Interior. A hearing was had before the Secretary, February 18, 1889, and 'he held and determined that neither Hyde nor McDonald had any interest or valid claim to the
lands, but, notwithstanding, also held that the scrip locations
were illegal and invalid, and that neither Orillie Stram nor
those claiming under her were entitled to the lands for the following reasons: (1) that the improvements made upon the land
when it was unsurveyed were not made under the personal supervision of Orillie Stram, and that she had not had personal
contact with the land; (2) that the power of attorney to Eaton
to locate the scrip, and the power of attorney executed at the
same time to Leonidas Merritt to sell the lands which should
be located, operated as an assignment of the scrip, and were in
violation of the act of July 17,1854, and the entry of the lands
iherefore was not for the benefit of said Orillie Strata; (3) that
the subsequent location and adjustment of the scrip to the lands
after the latter were surveyed were ineffectual in view of the
previous attempt to locate the scrip, and in view of his (the
Secretary's) decision relative to the question of improvements;
(4) that Orillie Stram had no power to alienate the lands before
location of the scrip or to contract for the sale of them, or to
grant a power of attorney to sell the same for her after they
should be located, but held that she had the right to sell immediately after location of the scrip. As a deduction from these
conclusions, the Secretary held that the lands were still public
lands and open to entry. The decision of the Secretary was
attached to the findings as an exhibit.
That on the 31st day of March, 1886, and prior to the hearing had before the local land office at Duluth, the said Oriflie
Strata and her husband Roman Stram made and executed a
deed for seven ninths of the land in controversy to Frank W.
Eaton, with warranty of title. The deed was subsequently recorded in St. Louis and Lake counties.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

The deed recited the location of the scrip in the land office
at Duluth, June 16, 1883, by Eaton, as the constituted and appointed attorney in fact of the Strams, and that the title thereby
vested in Orillie Strain. It also recited the survey of the lands
and the adjustment of the scrip and entry to such lands, and
"thereby the aforesaid scrip and entry were adjusted July 21,
A. D. 1885, thereby specifically and perfectly describing the
land filed upon for me, the said Orillie Stratn, by the said Frank
W. Eaton, and intended to be entered on June 15, A. D. 1883,
in the name of the said Orillie Stram, by our attorney in fact,
the said Frank W. Eaton." It also recited the power of attorney given to Leonidas 'Merritt, acknowledged it, and ratified
and confirmed the conveyance by him to Eaton.
It was further found that in pursuance of the decision of the
Secretary of the Interior the lands were attempted to be thrown
open to public entry, and a patent was subsequently issued to
Frank Hicks, and that Frank Hicks and his wife conveyed the
same to The Midway Company, the plaintiff in error, "who
now holds whatever title thereto enured to the said Frank
Hicks." That neither Orillie Stram nor her husband, nor any
of the defendants, "were in any manner parties to the proceedings to the decision of the Secretary of the Interior rendered
on the 18th of February, 1889, and that said Hicks had at all
times full knowledge of all rights and claims of the defendants."
That the findings of fact of the Secretary of the Interior were
fully sustained by the evidence in the cause presented to him,
"except that it is found as a fact by this court, that the improvements caused to be erected by Frank W. Eaton upon the
said premises consisted of a house about 14 by 16 feet in size;
and it is further found as a fact that from the evidence before
the Secretary of the Interior in said cause, presented to him by
the record upon said appeal, it did not appear that the scrip referred to in the decision of said Secretary had passed through
many hands or through any hands before coming into the hands
of the said Frank W. Eaton, nor did it appear that the powers
of attorney to locate said scrip and to convey the land located
therewith had been executed by the said Orillie Strain years before the location thereof by the said Frank W. Eaton, but that

MIIDWAY COIPA.NY v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

on the contrary it appeared from the evidence before the Secretary that said powers of attorney were executed by the said
Orillie Strata about one week before the location of the said
scrip by the said Frank W. Eaton, and that the said powers did
not contain the names of the grantees. It is further found as
a fact that it did not appear from the evidence before the said
Secretary that the said Orillie Stram never saw the said lands;
it did not appear from the evidence before the said Secretary
that she had sold the said scrip long prior to the location thereof;
it did not appear from the evidence before the said Secretary
that for a long time she directly and positively repudiated Eaton
and Merritt as her attorneys in fact, denying that they acted
for her in any capacity whatsoever."
.A&. lfalter Ayers for plaintiff in error.
was on his brief.

M..P. H. Seymour

Mr&. ed. L. TFashburn and _Y. Luther C. Harrisfor defendants in error. .Mr. C. A. Towne and -Yr. William JD. Bailey
were on their briefs.
MR. JusTicriMoKENNA, after stating the case, delivered

the

opinion of the court.
The decision of the controversies in this case depends upon
the validity or invalidity of the scrip locations, either originally
when the land was unsurveyed, or subsequently when the location was adjusted to the land as surveyed.
The act of Congress of July 17, 1854, c. 83, 10 Stat. 304, authorized the issue of scrip to the half-breeds of the Sioux Nation of Indians in exchange for certain lands, which scrip might
be located (1) upon any land within the Sioux half-breed reservation; or (2) "upon any other unoccupied lands subject to preemption or private sale;" or (3) "upon any other unsurveyed
lands not reserved by the Government, upon which they (the
half-breeds) have respectively made improvements. It is provided in said act, "That no transfer or conveyance of any of
said certificates or scrip issued shall be valid."

OCTOBER TERM. 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

On the latter provision of the act the plaintiff in error bases
the contention that the scrip is not assignable, and that the
power of location is strictly personal to the Indian, and must
be made whether on surveyed or unsurveyed land, either by
him or for his benefit, and that the improvements on unsurveyed
land must be made under his personal supervision and direction;
that he must come in personal contact with the land. And it
is hence asserted that the powers of attorney given to Eaton
and Merritt were virtual assignments of the scrip and frauds
upon the act of Congress; that the improvements were made
not by Orillie Strain, the half-breed, or for her benefit, but by
Eaton and for his benefit ; and that the subsequent adjustment
of the locations of the land after its survey was made for him,
not for her; for his benefit, not for hers. On the other hand,
the defendants in error contend that the prohibition against
the assignment of the scrip is strictly of the scrip as such, not
of the rights or powers conferred by it: that the provision
of the statute is not a prohibition upon the alienation of the
land, but is intended to protect the Government against controversies about the transfer of the scrip, and to require and
secure all of the steps and proceedings to be in the name of the
Indian and the title to be issued in his name. It is claimed,
therefore, that the requirements of the statute have been observed; that the locations were made in the name of the Indian, and for her benefit. And it is also claimed that if there
was any defect in the location upon the land when unsurveyed,
by reason of the insufficiency of the improvements or by whom
erected, that defect was supplied by the location of the scrip
after the land was surveyed, and the acceptance of the location
of the scrip by the local land office, there being then no adverse rights to the land. And further, that the power of Eaton
to make the location for the Indian was ratified by her (if it
needed ratification), and all rights which enured to her were
conveyed by her warranty Aeed to Eaton.
These contentions exhibit the controversy between the parties
and present the only questions upon which we think it is necessary to pass, and the questions are certainly close ones. The
Interior Department has not always given the same answer to

MIDWAY COMPANY v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

them, and the latest decision of that Department is opposed in
the case at bar by the courts of Minnesota.
It is natural to respect the rulings of the Land Department
upon any statute affecting the public domain, and if the rulings
were contemporaneous with the enactment of the statute they
afford a somewhat confident presumption of its meaning. One
of the reasons is that the officers of the Land Department may
have recommended the statute-indeed, may have written its
words or, at any rate, were familiar with the circumstances
which induced the legislation. We have not, however, in the
case at bar, an exactly contemporaneous construction of the
act of 1851 by the Land Department. The first circular of instructions was not issued until March 21, 1857. It is, however,
not without value, and it tends to the support of the contentions
of the defendants in error. The circular stated that the scrip
"must be located in the name of the party in whose favor the
scrip is issued, and the location may be made by hjm or her in
person, or by his or her guardian." And further: "You will
observe that this scrip is not assignable, transfers of the same
being held void; consequently, each certificate, as hereinbefore
stated, can only be located in the name of the half-breed; and
such certificate or scrip are not to be treated as money, but
located acre for acre."
In the circular issued February 22, 1864-, those instructions
were repeated, and the following added: "When not located
by the reservee in proper person, the application to locate must
be accompanied by the affidavit of the agent that the reservee
is living, and that the location is made for the sole use and benefit of said reservee." Prior to the issuance of the circular of
February 22, 1864, to wit, in 1863, a contest came on appeal to
the Land Department, between a location made by Sioux scrip
which was issued to one Sophia Felix, and a claim under a preemption settlement. The Commissioner of the Land Department decided against the scrip location on two grounds, one
of which was: "That the location of the scrip, although made
in her name, was not made by her in person, nor by her guardian or duly authorized agent, for her use and benefit, but by
VOL. CLXXXIII-39

610

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

an unauthorized person, and for the use and benefit of a person
having no legal interest therein.'"
The decision was reversed by the Secretary of the Interior,
who stated, through Otto, Assistant Secretary:
"As to your second objection, I remark that this kind of
scrip is by the law declared to be not assignable. In this case
Sophia Felix has signed the application to locate her own scrip.
The signature must be treated by us as genuine, when there is
no proof to the contrary; and when she has made no complaint
against this use of her scrip. The fact that the scrip was carried to the land office and the business transacted by another
person, does not affect the validity of her entry of the land.
"As the certificate of location issued in her name, and the
patent will issue to her, neither the register's report nor the
affidavits of third parties can be admitted to establish the interest of any other person in the location.
"We could not recognize such interest if an assignment in
writing was produced and duly proven to have been executed
by the half-breed-whether she could sell or did sell the land
after the location of her scrip we need not inquire, and the
validity and effect of any such sale or assignment must be left
to the arbitrament of the courts of law. The location is valid
on its face, and the owner of the scrip, so far as she is represented at all, demands the patent to issue in her name, and my
decision is that she is entitled thereto."
In 1872 a special circular was issued (1 C.L. L. '723), which
contained the following direction:
"That the application must be accompanied with the affidavit
of the Indian, or other evidence that the land contains improvements made by or under the personal supervision or direction of
said Indian, giving a detailed description of said improvements,
and that they are for his personal use and benefit; in other
words, you should be satisfied that the Indian has a direct connection with the land and is claiming the same for his personal
use. Unless such evidence is filed, you will reject the application."
In 1878 a new circular was issued which repeated the pro-

MIDWAY COMPANY v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

visions of the circulars of 1864 and 1872, above quoted. (2 0.
L.L. 1355; 50. L. 0. 126.)
Then came the decision of the Secretary of the Interior,
Vilas, in Allen et al. v. .errill et al., 8 L. D. 207, and in
iyde and 3lcDonald and Eaton and Stra.
They were affirmed on review by Secretary Noble. Those cases laid down
the propositions upon which plaintiff in error relies in the case
at bar. Between the decision in those cases and that in the
-Felix case there was an interval of thirty years, and pending.
that interval there were decisions of the courts which took the
same view as Secretary Otto expressed in the .Felix case.
In Gilbert v. Thompson, 14 Minnesota, 544, a conflict of
titles was presented based upon deeds from one Amelia Monette,
a Sioux half-breed. The action was ejectment, and the deed,
which plaintiff relied on, was executed by Amelia in person
May 29, 1867; the deed upon which defendant depended was
executed by her attorney in fact, Benjamin Lawrence, July 18
1857, under a power of attorney dated May 27, 1857. The
power of attorney authorized Lawrence to act for Amelia as
follows :
"For me and in my name to enter into and take possession
of all the real estate belonging to me, or of which I may hereafter become seized, situated in the county of Wabasha, in the
Territory of Minnesota; and for me to lease, bargain, sell, grant
and confirm the whole or any part thereof; . . . and for
me and in my name to make, acknowledge and deliver unto the
purchaser, or purchasers, good and sufficient conveyances."
Affirming the judgment which passed for defendant, the Supreme Court of the State said by Chief Justice Gilfillan :
"The act of Congress of 1854, under which Sioux half-breed
scrip was issued, provides 'that no transfer or conveyance of
any of said certificates or scrip shall be valid.'
"It was the intention of Congress that the right to acquire
public lands by means of this scrip should be a personal right,
in the one to whom the scrip issued, and not property in the
sense of being assignable; but no restraint is imposed upon the
right of property in the land after it is acquired by location of
the scrip. In the scrip itself, the half-breed had nothing which

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

he could transfer to another; but his title to the land, when
perfected under it, was as absolute as though acquired in any
other way. It follows, therefore, that any attempt to transfer
the scrip, directly or indirectly, would be of no effect as a transfer. The title to the scrip would remain in him, and the title
to the land acquired by it would vest in him, just as though no
such attempt had been made. Such attempt to transfer would
not involve any moral turpitude nor the breach of any legal
duty, as is the case with an attempt to transfer a pregmptive
right. It would be simply ineffectual, because the scrip is not
transferable.
"A power of attorney, so far as it intended to operate as a
transfer, would be of no avail; the right of the half-breed in
the scrip and land would remain the same; it could not be made
irrevocable, nor create any interest in the attorney. Should
the attorney sell under it, he would be accountable to his principal, precisely as in the case of any power to sell; but a simple
power to sell, executed by a half-breed, is good till revoked, and
would extend to lands subsequently acquired by means of scrip,
if such lands came within its terms. We think such a power
could not be varied by parol proof that the parties had an intention not expressed in it, even to defeat the power, except on
the same grounds as would admit such proof in other cases.
The intent to transfer the scrip not being illegal, but only ineffectual, could not affect the power where not expressed in the
same instrument, or in one equal in degree, as evidence. Whether
the power to sell would be upheld in an instrument, upon its
face a transfer, the former being only incidental, we do not decide."
Gilbert v. Thompson was affirmed and applied in Thompson
v. Xyric, 20 Minnesota, 205. The latter case came to this
court, 99 U. S. 291, and its doctrine was approved. The suit
was for specific performance. Thompson, who was plaintiff in
the court below, was in occupation of the land to which he was
desirous of obtaining title. Myrick was "attorney in fact (duly
constituted) of Francis Longie and Joseph Longie, his son, then
a minor under the age of fourteen years, and of Francis IRoi
and Henry Roi, his son, then a minor under the age of fourteen

MIDWAY COMPANY v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

years, and was duly authorized to locate certain half-breed scrip
issued to said Joseph and Henry in accordance with the provisions of the act of Congress approved July 17, 1854."
With a view to the location of the scrip for the benefit of
the beneficiaries, Myrick placed the same with powers of attorney in the hands of Thompson, and at the same time entered
into a written agreement with Thompson, in which he agreed
that upon the location of the scrip he would secure the title to
the land located to be lawfully vested in Thompson. The consideration was $2800, evidenced by a note payable in one year
from its date, and to be secured upon the land as soon as Thompson should acquire title. Thompson located the scrip and demanded a conveyance of the title. Myrick refused, and conveyed the land to his wife, who was also a defendant in the
suit. Specific performance was decreed by the trial court, and
the decree was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State.
Among other defences it was urged that the agreement between
Myrick and Thompson was void as contravening the act of
Congress of July 17, 1854. To the contention the Supreme
Court of the State replied: "As to the point that the real object of the contract was to accomplish a transfer of the scrip,
we see nothing to distinguish this case in any important respect
from Gilbert v. Thompson, 14 Minnesota, 544."
And further, in answer to the contention that the agreement
was void on common law grounds by reason of the relations of
Myrick to the grantees of the scrip, the court said: "As the
scrip was made non-assignable by the act of Congress, (10 Stat.
304,) and therefore no valid transfer or conveyance of the same
could be made, Myrick's relation to the scripees was that of an
attorney in fact, duly authorized to locate the scrip for them.
• . . As this relation was to end upon such location, we can
conceive of no reason why Myrick was not at liberty, either before or after the location was made, to enter into an agreement
to secure the title (enuring from the location) to the plaintiff
upon payment of an agreed consideration. Such an agreement
did not, so far as this case shows, tend to produce a conflict between Myrick's private interest and his duty to locate the scrip
to the best advantage of his principals."

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

These defences were reviewed by this court, and, commenting
on them, it was said by Mr. Justice Clifford:
"Attempt it seems was made in the argument of the case in
the Supreme Court of the State to show that the terms of the
agreement were in conflict with the provisions of the act of
Congress; but the answer which that court made to the proposition, though brief, is satisfactory and decisive."
And further:
"Holders of such certificates or scrip were forbidden to transfer the same, and the defeudants contended that the real object
of the agreement was to effect a transfer of the same; but the
state Supreme Court overruled the defence, and referred to one
of their former decisions, assigning the reasons for their conclusion that the defence was not well founded. Gilbert et al. v.
Thompson, 14 Minnesota, 544.
"Since the case was submitted, the opinion of the court in
the case has been carefully examined, and the court here concurs with the state court that the case is applicable to the present case, and that the reasons given for the conclusion are satisfactory and conclusive. For these reasons the court is of the
opinion that the Federal questions involved in the record as set
forth in the assignment of errors were decided correctly by the
state Supreme Court."
Secretary Vilas, in passing on the validity of the location in
the present litigation, in effect disagreed with the decision in
Gilbert v. Tlhompsonr, and expressed the view that " all the documents, besides any parol additions [the italics are ours], are to
be taken together to ascertain what in effect the agreement
was, and it will be judged according to its nature as so ascertaimed;" and applying this rule, he considered that the transaction between Strain and Eaton was tantamount to a direct
sale and transfer of the scrip, accompanied by the declaration
that "to circumvent the statutory prohibition" two letters of
attorney have been executed in blank, the one to locate the
scrip and the other to convey the land when the scrip shall be
located, and an agreement that by whomsoever the letters of
attorney may be executed no claim will be made by the Indian
to the scrip or land. And he concluded that if letters of at-

MIDWAY COMPANY v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

torney accompanying such a document would be invalid, the
powers of attorney to Eaton and Merrill constituted "'a part of
a transaction which cannot be supported in law." Secretary
Noble considered the case more at length, and said: "The controlling points in the case, as decided by the court, plainly were

(1) that a simple power to sell, executed by a half-breed, such
as the one there considered, would extend to lands subsequently
acquired by means of scrip if within its terms; and (2) that parol
proof of an intent coincident with the creation of the power to
transfer the scrip, could not be received to defeat the power."
The first point was not controverted, and of the second it was
said that, as a rule of evidence, it might properly be enforced in
controversies between individual claimants, but that it did not
apply "against the Government, whose interest it is, before it
parts with its title, to see that the law has been faithfully complied with."
The learned Secretary regarded Gilbert v. Thompson as turning upon a rule of evidence, and that the court did not pass upon
the question which he was considering, and this, he said, was
"clearly shown by their statement that 'we do not decide'
whether a power to sell contained in an instrument, on its face
a transfer, the power being merely.incidental to the transfer,
would be upheld. That is the question here-the only difference being the manner of its presentation. It properly arises
here on the record; in Gilbert v. Thompson it did not, the evideuce of the transfer being excluded on technical grounds, and
therefore it was not decided." And he observed that Tompson v. Lpyriek went no further, and was "in fact ruled on in
Gilbert v. Thompson by the state court, and that rule was affirmed by the Supreme Court (this court) on appeal."
We do not think those cases were as confined as represented.
x
It is very evident that the courts did not think that "pa ol additions" could unite and make single the documents, or, when
thus united, they constituted a violation of the statute. And it
is a deduction from the opinions that it was not the manner of
proof but the substance of. what was proved or to be proved,
that was passed upon. If evidence was excluded in Gilbert v.
Thompson, it was admitted and considered in Thompson v.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

fyrick, and in both cases the delivery of scrip and its location
under letters of attorney were decided to be valid, forming in
one case a good title and in the other constituting a ground for
a compulsory conveyance from the half-breed. The moral and
legal effect of the transfer of scrip was declared by the court
in Gilbert v. Tliompson. The first involved, the court said, no
"turpitude nor the breach of any legal duty, as in the case of
an attempt to transfer a preemption right;" of the second, it
was said, it would be of no effect as a transfer; that "the title
to the scrip would remain in him (the half-breed), and the title
to the land covered by it would vest in him (the half-breed) just
as though no such attempt had been made." The power of attorney, however, was given full legal effect as authority to sell
the land located.
Itis true the court excluded parol evidence
of an intention to transfer the scrip. But why? Manifestly
because the transactions did not constitute a transfer of the
scrip as such, and their legal character could not be destroyed
by parol proof that they were intended to be something else.
In other words, the court decided that the transactions were intended as a conveyance of the land and represented that intention, and could not be shown to be a transfer of the scrip.
And in Tliompson v. 3fyrick the court observed: "We can conceive of no reason why Myrick was not at liberty, either before
or after location was made, to enter into an agreement to secure the title (enuring from the location) to the plaintiff upon the
payment of an agreed consideration." The reasoning and the
conclusions of the Supreme Court of Minnesota were approved
by this court, as we have seen.
The consideration of the location of scrip under the act of
1854 came before this court again in Felix v. Patrick, 145
U. S. 317. It is a good complement to the other cases. It recognized, as they did, the difference between the transfer of the
scrip itself and its location by or in the name of the half-breed
as a means of conveying the land located upon. There are expressions in the opinion that seem to go further, but they must
be considered in reference to the facts. It was said: "The
device of a blank power of attorney and quitclaim deed was
doubtless resorted to for the purpose of evading the provision

MIDWAY COMPANY v. EATON.
Opinion of the Court.

of the act of Congress that no transfer or conveyance of the
scrip issued under such act should be valid. This rendered it
necessary that the scrip should be located in the name and for
the benefit of the person to whom it was issued, but from the
moment the scrip was located and the title in the land vested
in Sophia Felix, it became subject to her disposition precisely
as any other land would be. In order, therefore, for the purchaser of this scrip from Sophia Felix to make the same available, it became necessary to secure a power of attorney or a
deed of the land, and as the scrip had not then been located,
and the person who should locate it was unknown, the name
of the grantee and the description of the land must necessarily
be left in blank."
And again: "As the bill alleges that Patrick obtained possession of these instruments while still in blank, he is clearly
chargeable with notice that they were intended as a device to
evade the law against the assignment of scrip."
Felix was a half-breed to whom scrip had been regularly
issued. It was obtained from her by some person unknown,
"by wicked devices and fraudulent means;" the power of attorney omitted the name of the attorney, the number of the
scrip and the description of the land. The quitclaim deed also
omitted the name of the grantee and the description of the
land; otherwise the instruments were in legal form. The
transaction was held to be a fraud upon Felix, and Patrick was
adjudged to hold the title he obtained by the location of her
scrip and the deed to him, as trustee for her. The court made
no question of the validity of the location. Indeed, it was
necessarily assumed, and the half-breed given the benefit of it.
It may be said that neither of the litigants was concerned to
dispute the location or to assert the provision of the act of
Congress prohibiting the transfer of the scrip. If so, that provision from the point of view of the case at bar was not in
judgment, and the expression in regard to it must therefore
be strictly confined to the facts and the issue which was presented.
This brings us to the consideration of the amount and kind
of improvements required by the act of 1851 to be erected up-

OCTOBER TERMI,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

on unsurveyed land. The act is not explicit. It does not define the extent or kind of improvements. It permits a location to be made upon "unoccupied land

.

.

.

upon which

they (half-breeds) have respectively made improvements."
Residence is not required, either initial or subsequent, temporary or continuous. The purpose of the provision of the statute would seem, therefore, necessarily to be identification, notice of appropriation, and the kind and extent of improvements
only to be necessary for that. But we may concede, as held
by Secretary Noble, "that the requirement of improvements
must have some substantial significance," and "it is not satisfied by doing something which is a betterment of the land, but
of too slight a character to mark anything more than a pretext of compliance." The improvements erected on the land
in controversy satisfied the rule whether they were as, it is
claimed, Secretary Yilas found, or were as the trial court found
in the present case.
It is further urged that the improvements were not erected
for the benefit of the Indian nor did she have "a direct connection with the land," and that those requirements are made
conditions precedent to a valid location by the circulars of the
land office issued in 1872 and subsequently.
1. It was decided in Thomyson v. Xyrick, supra,that a valid
location could be made by an attorney in fact of the Indian,
and that he could, "either before or after the location was
made," enter into an agreement to secure or convey the title.
That case was affirmed by this court, and the facts of the case
at bar bring it within the ruling.
2. To consider the act of 1864 as requiring its beneficiaries to
have "a direct connection with the land and claim the same
for his personal use," would lead to great embarrassment, if
not to discrimination, between the beneficiaries. The effect of
that construction was expressed by the Supreme Court of the
State as follows:
"Under the law the President was authorized to do what was
actually done, issue to each person entitled several pieces of
scrip of different sizes or acreage. Was it expected that each
of these persons should be personally connected with the sev-

MIDWAY COMPANY v. EATON.
Counsel for Parties.

eral and separate improvements required to be made if all of
the pieces were located on unsurveyed lands, and would have
to claim the same for personal use? Surely not. This law
contemplated and thei'e were actually issued several pieces of
scrip to each of a large number of minors. Babes in arms were
held to be entitled and to them scrip was issued, and in many
cases located before the minors reached majority, as might
reasonably be expected. With these facts before us can it be
held that Congress thought or intended that these minors would
be required by a construction of the law to personally supervise
the selection of from three to five tracts of land on which to
locate their pieces of scrip, or that they would have to be directly connected with each of these locations, or in case unsurveyed lands were desired they would have to claim the neces-:
sary improvements as their own?"
It is impossible to escape the force of these observations and
to accept a construction of the statute which has the consequences expressed. Upon the other points discussed by counsel
we do not consider it necessary to pass.
Judgment afflrmed.

MIDWAY COMPANY v. EATON.
• ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 81. Argued December 4, 5, 1901.-Decided January 13, 1902.

This case fsaffirmed on the authority of 3idway Company v. Eaton, ante, 602.

TuE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. TWalter Aye's for plaintiff in error.
was on his brief.

r'. P. H. Seymour

. Mr. ,Jed. L. WTashburn and Yfr. Luther C. Harris for de-

OCTOBER TERM , 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

fendants in error. Xr. C. A. Towne and ilb'. William D.
Bailey were on their briefs.
M .

JUSTICE MOKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by the Germania Iron Company
against the defendants in error in the district court of St. Louis
County, State of Minnesota, to determine adverse claims to the
S. E. J of the N. W. J of section 30, T. 63 N., of range 11 W.,
of the fourth principal meridian, according to the government
survey in said St. Louis County.
Pending the action the land was conveyed to The Midway
Company, and the latter company was substituted as plaintiff
for the Germania Company.
Plaintiff in error claims title under a patent issued by the
United States to Emil Hartman, dated October 21, 1895, by
whom the land was conveyed to the Germania Company, and
by the latter to the plaintiff in error.
The defendants claim title under a certain location of Sioux
half-breed scrip issued under the act of July 17, 1854. (10
Stat. 304, c. 83.)
The trial court rendered judgment for defendants, which was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, and this writ of
error was then allowed by the Chief Justice of that court.
The facts of this case are the same and are presented upon
exactly the same record, the same assignments of error and contentions, as in The _Midway Company v. Eaton et al., ante, 602,
just decided. On the authority of that case the judgment of
the Supreme Court is
Affinned.

