MISSOURI &c. R'Y CO. v. MISSOURI R'D &c. COMRS.

53

Syllabus.

or injured or lost in the manner testified to by the plaintiff's
witnesses, and if they further find from the evidence that such
loss or damage was the result of fire not having its origin or
commencement by or with an explosion of any sort, but by the
accidental combustion of any non-explosive substance in the
cellar of plaintiff's premises, described in said policy, and that
in consequence of such combustion the front building erected
on said premises was prostrated, and the loss or damage to the
property insured was the immediate result thereof, then the
loss was occasioned by fire within the meaning of the policy,
and the plaintiff is entitled to recover in this action."
We think these two extracts from the charge of the judge
fairly presented the question to the jury, and the exception to
the charge is not available.
We find no error in the case, and the judgment of the Court

of Appeals is
A.imed.

MISSOURI, KANSAS AND TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY v. MISSOURI RAILROAD AND WAREHOUSE
COMMISSIONERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 11. Argued and submitted October 16, 1901.-Decided November 11, 1901.

When a state court refuses permission to remove to a Federal court a case
pending before the state court, and the Federal court orders its removal,
this court has jurisdiction to determine whether there was error on the
part of the state court in retaining the case.
The plaintiffs were citizens of the State of Missouri, in which this action
was brought. The railway company was a citizen of the State of Kansas.
On the face of record there was therefore diverse citizenship, authorizing, on proper proceedings being taken to bring it about, the removal of
the action from the state court to the Federal court; and the State of
Missouri is not shown to have such an interest in the result as would
warrant the conclusion that the State was the real party in interest, and
the consequent refusal of the motion for removal.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

Tins case involves the question of removal from a state to a
Federal court.
The State of Missouri has a body of statutes for. the regulation of railroads. By one section a board of railroad commissioners is created. To this board is committed the duty of supervising the conduct and charges of railroads, of hearing and
deciding complaints against them, and making such orders as
the circumstances require. Section 1143, Rev. Stat. Missouri,
(1899), identical with section 2646, Rev. Stat. Missouri, (1889),
contains this provision:
"SEc. 1143. Commissioners to See to Enforcement of Article-Investigate Complaints.-It shall be the duty of the railroad commissioners of this State to see that the provisions of
this article are enforced. When complaint is made in writing
by any person having an interest in the matter about which
complaint is made, that any rate or rates established by any
common carrier are unreasonable, unjust or extortionate, or
that any of the provisions of this article have been or are being violated, it shall be the duty of said railroad commissioners
to proceed at once to investigate such complaint and determine
the truth of the same."
The section also authorizes the commissioners to summon
witnesses, to punish for failure or refusal to attend or testify,
declares that any common carrier wilfully or knowingly obstructing or preventing the commissioners from making such
investigations shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
punished by a fine. Other sections provide for penalties and
forfeitures. In section 1144, the same as section 2647, Rev.
Stat. 1889, is this clause :
"SEC. 1144. Forfeitures, How Recovered and Disposed of.The forfeitures and penalties herein provided for shall go to the
county school fund of the county where sued for, and may be
recovered in a civil action in the name of the State of Missouri,
at the relation of the board of railroad commissioners to the
use of said fund."
Section 1150 (sec. 2653, Rev. Stat. 1889) reads as follows:
"Sxc. 1150. Proceedings when Order of Commissioners is
Disobeyed-Circuit Court-Enforce or Renew Order-Proceed-

MISSOURI &c. R'Y CO. v. MISSOURI R'D &c. COAIRS.

55

Statement of the Case.

ings.-Where the complaint involves either a private or a public
question as aforesaid, and the commissioners have made a lawful order or requirement in relation thereto, and where such
common carrier, or the proper officer, agent or employ6 thereof,
shall violate, refuse or neglect to obey any such order or requirement, it shall be lawful for the board of railroad commissioners, or any person or company interested in such order or
requirement, to apply in a summary way, by petition, to any
circuit court at any county in this State into or through which
the line of railway of the said common carrier enters or runs,
alleging such violation or disobedience, as the case may be;
and the said court shall have power to hear and determine the
matter on such short notice to the common carrier complained
of as the court shall deem reasonable. And such notice may
be served on such common carrier, its officers, agents or servants
in such manner as the court may direct; and said court shall
proceed to hear and determine the matter speedily in such
manner as to do justice in the premises; and to this end said
court shall have power, if it thinks fit, to direct and prosecute
in such mode and by such persons as it may appoint, all such
inquiries as may seem needful to enable it to form a just judgment in the matter of such petition. On such hearing the report of said commissioners shall beprima facie evidence of the
matter therein stated; and if it be made to appear to the court
on such hearing, or on report of such persons appointed as
aforesaid, that the lawful orders or requirements of such commissioners drawn in question have been violated or disobeyed,
it shall be lawful for such court to issue a writ of injunction or
other proper process, mandatory or otherwise, to restrain such
common carrier from further continuing such violation of such
order or requirement of said commissioners, and enjoin obedience to the same. If such court shall hold and decide that any
order of said board of railroad commissioners involved in such
proceeding was not a lawful order, said court shall, without
any reference to the regularity or legality of the proceedings
of said board or of the order thereof, proceed to make such order as the said board should have made, and to enforce said
order by the process of said court, and to enforce and collect

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

the forfeitures and penalties herein provided in all respects
according to the provisions of this act. And in case of any
disobedience of any such injunction or other proper process,
mandatory or otherwise, it shall be lawful for such court to issue writs of attachment, or other proper process of said court
incident or applicable to writs of injunction or other proper
process, mandatory or otherwise, against such common carrier;
and if a corporation, against one or more of the directors, officers or agents of the same, or against any owner, lessee, trustee,
receiver or other person failing to obey such writ of injunction

or other process, mandatory or otherwise; and said court may
make an order directing such common carrier or other person
so disobeying such writ of injunction or other process, mandatory or otherwise, to pay such sum of money, not exceeding for
each carrier or person in default the sum of one hundred dollars
per day, for every day after a day to be named in the order
that such carrier or other person shall fail to obey such injunction or other proper process, mandatory or otherwise; and such
money shall be payable to the school fund of the county in
which such proceeding is pending; and payment thereof may,
without prejudice to any other mode of recovering the same,
be enforced by attachment or order in the nature of a writ of
execution, in like manner as if the same had been recovered by
final decree in personam in such court. When the subject in
dispute shall be of the value of one hundred dollars or more,
either party to such proceeding before such court may appeal
to the proper appellate court in the State, in the same manner
that appeals are taken from such courts in this State in other
proceedings involving like sums of money; but such appeal
shall not operate to stay or supersede the order of the court or
the execution of any writ or process thereon, unless stay of
proceedings be ordered by the court from which the appeal is
taken, or by the appellate court to which the appeal is taken,
upon the application of the appealing party. Whenever any
such petition shall be filed by the commissioners as aforesaid it
shall be the duty of the attorney general, when requested by
said commissioners, to prosecute the same. All proceedings
commenced upon such petition shall, upon application of the

MISSOURI &c. R'Y CO. v. MISSOURI R'D &c. COMRS.

57

Statement of the Case.

petitioner, be advanced upon the docket and take precedence
of any other case upon the docket except criminal cases. The
cost of such proceedings may be, with the approval of the
attorney general and governor of the State, when such suit is
brought by any private person, and when brought by said commissioners shall be ordered by the commissioners to be paid, in
the first instance, out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated; and if upon final hearing the decision is
against the said common carrier or other person against whom
the proceeding is being prosecuted, such common carrier or
person shall be liable for the costs, for which judgment may
be rendered as in any other case."
Under the authority of these statutes, upon a hearing after
complaint and notice, the railroad commissioners found that
the railway company was charging excessive and illegal rates
for travel over what is known as the Boonville Bridge across
the Missouri River, and made and entered of record an order
directing it to discontinue such charges. This order was dated
July 22, 1895. The railway company not complying with the
order, a suit was instituted on August 17, 1895, in the Circuit
Court of Cooper County, Missouri, by such commissioners, setting forth the facts and praying process, mandatory or otherwise, to restrain the defendant from further continuing to violate
the law and the order of the commissioners. The company in
due time filed a petition for removal to the Circuit Court of the
United States, alleging that it was a corporation created and
existing under the laws of the State of Kansas and a citizen of
that State, and that the plaintiffs were citizens of the State of
Missouri. No question was made as to the sufficiency of the
petition and bond in respect to any formal matter. The state
court refused to order the removal. Notwithstanding which
the railway company took a transcript of the record and filed
it in the Federal court, where a motion to remand was made
and overruled. 97 Fed. Rep. 113. The state court, after refusing to order the removal, proceeded with the hearing of the
case, the railway company declining to take any part therein.
On such hearing a decree was entered in accordance with the
petition of the railroad commissioners. This decree was ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

pealed to the Supreme Court of the State, and by that court on
June 30, 1899, affirmed. 151 Missouri, 644.
.-M. GeorgeP. B. Jackoon for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. Edward C. Crow for defendant in error, submitted on
his brief, on which was also Mr. Samuel B. Jeriee.
MR. JusTioE BRE ER, after making the above statement of
the case, delivered the opinion of the court.

The single question presented for our consideration is whether
the railway company was entitled to remove this suit from the
state to the Federal court. The state court refused the re-

moval, and the Federal court, on the other hand, denied a motion to remand. Under these circumstances this court has
jurisdiction to determine whether there was error on the part
of the state court in retaining the case. Removal Cases, 100
U. S. 457; Stone v. South Carolina, 117 U. S. 430; Mlissouri
Paifto Railway Comipany v. .Fitzgerald,160 U. S. 556, 582.
On the face of the record the railway company was entitled
to a removal. The plaintiffs were citizens of Missouri, the State
in which the suit was brought. The railway company was a
citizen of the State of Kansas. There was, therefore, diverse
citizenship, the defendant a citizen of another State than that
in which the suit was brought petitioning for removal, and the
removal appears perfect in form.
But it was held by the Supreme Court of the State of :Missouri that it was proper to go behind the face of the record and
inquire who was the real party plaintiff, and, making such examination, that court decided that the real party plaintiff was
the State of Missouri. If that conclusion be correct then no
removal in this case was justifiable, because a State is not a
citizen within the meaning of the Removal Acts. Stone v. South
Carolina,117 U. S. 430; GermaniaIn. Co. v. Wisconsin, 119
U. S. 473; Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Alabama, 155 U. S.
482.
Was the State the real party plaintiff? It was at an early

MISSOURI &c. IVY CO. v. MISSOURI R'D &c. COMRS.

69

Opinion of the Court.

day held by this court, construing the Eleventh Amendment,
that in all cases where jurisdiction depends on the party, it is
the party named in the record. Osborn v. Urnited States Bank,
9 Wheat. 738. But that technical construction has yielded to
one more in consonance with the spirit of the Amendment, and
in In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443, it was ruled upon full consideration that the Amendment covers not only suits against a State
by name but those also against its officers, agents and representatives where the State, though not named as such, is nevertheless the only real party against which in fact the relief is asked,
and against which the judgment or decree effectively operates.
And that construction of the Amendment has since been followed. That Amendment refers only to suits brought against a
State. But applying the same principles of construction to
the Removal Acts and to cases in which it is claimed that the
State, though not the nominal is in fact the real party plaintiff,
it may be fairly held that the State is such real party when the
relief sought is that which enures to it alone, and in its favor
the judgment or decree, if for the plaintiff, will effectively operate. Such a case was Ferguson v. Ross, 38 Fed. Rep. 161.
There an action was brought in the name of Ferguson, a shore
inspector, against Ross and others, to recover a penalty. The
statute of New York authorized the suit to be prosecuted in the
name of the inspector, but all the moneys recovered were payable into the treasury of the State, and it was held by the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of New York that the action
was one in which the real party plaintiff was the State. It was
for its sole benefit that the action was brought, and it alone
was to be benefited by the recovery.
But this case is not like Fergusonv. Ross, and does not come
within the rule above stated. It is not an action to recover any
money for the State. Its results will not enure to the benefit
of the State as a State in any degree. It is a suit to compel
compliance with an order of the railroad commissioners in respect to rates and charges. The parties interested are the railway company, on the one hand, and they who use the bridge,
on the other; the one interested to have the charges maintained
as they have been, the others to have them reduced in compliance with the order of the commissioners. They are the real

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

parties in interest, and in respect to whom the decree will
effectively operate.
It is true that the State has a governmental interest in the
welfare of all its citizens, in compelling obedience to the legal
orders of all its officials, and in securing compliance with all its
laws. But such general governmental interest is not that which
makes the State, as an organized political community, a party
in interest in the litigation, for if that were so the State would
be a party in interest in all litigation; because the purpose of
all litigation is to preserve and enforce rights and secure compliance with the law of the State, either statute or common. The
interest must be one in the State as an artificial person. Reagan
v. Farmers' loan,& Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362-390.
While not controverting these general propositions, the Supreme Court of the State was of the opinion that the State had
a direct, pecuniary interest in the result of the litigation, by
virtue, first, of its possible liability for costs, and, secondly,
because were the litigation pushed to the extreme there might
be penalties imposed which would when collected pass into the
school fund of the State. We quote its language:
"This section of the statute makes provision for a civil action
to enforce the requirement in behalf of two classes of persons:
First, ' the board of railroad commissioners; ' second, ' any person or company interested in such order or requirement.' Now,
while in actions under the statute by persons of the second class,
which generally will be shippers or passengers, the State has no
pecuniary interest, it is not so in actions under this statute by
persons of the first class, its board of railroad commissioners.
In such actions it abandons its governmental character, enters
a court of competent jurisdiction as a suitor under the law, incurs
the same liability for costs and expenses as does any other suitor,
to be paid under the express provision of the statute out of any
money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, and is moreover pecuniarily interested not only by reason of the liabilities it
incurs in the action, but because of its pecuniary interest in the
judgments which may be obtained and which when pushed to
the final extremity of execution may result in the payment of
penalties, not directly into the state treasury, it is true, but into
the treasury of one of its political subdivisions for the benefit

MISSOURI &c. R'Y CO. v. MISSOURI R'D &c. COMRS.

61

Opinion of the Court.

of the public schools, to the establishment and maintenance of
which its credit is pledged by the organic law. It seems to us,
therefore, that the State in addition to its governmental has a
real pecuniary interest in the subject-matter of this controversy,
and that the suit is being prosecuted for its benefit in every
sense and is not subject to removal to the United States court,
and we so hold."
We are unable to concur in these views. Whatever may be
the result of any subsequent or ancillary proceeding the direct
object of this suit is to obtain a decree of the court commanding the railway company to comply with the order of the commissioners. Such a decree is similar to the ordinary decrees of
a court of equity, and it is familiar that a court of equity may
enforce compliance with its orders and decrees by penalties
upon the delinquents. So that if this possible pecuniary result
is sufficient to make the State the real party plaintiff it-would
follow that in lMissouri the State is the real party plaintiff in
every equity suit, because in every equity suit such penalties
may be imposed.
Neither can it be held that the state's voluntary assumption
of the costs of the litigation when the decree is adverse to the
railroad commissioners makes it the real party plaintiff. That
is simply an incidental matter and does not determine its relations to the suit any more than its payment of the salary of the
judge, fees of jurors or any other expenses of the litigation.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the party named in the
record as plaintiff is the real party plaintiff, and that the voluntary assumption by the State of the costs in some contingencies
of the litigation, or the indirect and remote pecuniary results
which may follow from a disobedience of the orders of the
court, do not make it the party to whom alone the relief sought
enures and in whose favor a decree for the plaintiff will effectively operate.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of AfXissouri
is reversed, and the case remanded to that courtfor fuarther
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
M

.JusTicE GRAY was not present at the argument and took

no part in the decision of this case.

