SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D CO. v. UNITED STATES. 519
Syllabus.

with the commercial power of the general government to be
unlawful must be direct, and not the merely incidental effect
of enforcing the police powers of a State. New York, Lake
Erie and Tfestern Railroadv. Pennsylvania,158 U. S. 431, 439;
.Henderson Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 166 U. S. 150.
A discussion of this subject will be found in the opinion of
this court in Louisville & HYashville -Railroadv. -Kentucky, 161
U. S. 677, (01, where the same conclusion was reached.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Afflrmed.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD

COMPANY.
CROSS APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 18 and 2.

Argued January 29, 30, 1901.-Decided January 6,1902.

The title of the Southern Pacific Railroad Company to the lands in controversy in this suit was acquired by virtue of the act of July 27, 1866,
14 Stat. 292, and the construction of the road was made under such cirstances as entitle the company to the benefit of the grant made by the
eighteenth section of that act.
The settled rule of construction is that where by the same act, or by acts
of the same date, grants of land are made to two separate companies, in
so far as the limits of their grants conflict by crossing or lapping, each
company takes an equal undivided moiety of the lands within the conflict, and neither acquires all by priority of location or priority of construction.
It is well settled that Congress has power to grant to a corporation created
by a State additional franchises, at least of a similar nature.
The grant to the Southern Pacific and that to the Atlantic and Pacific both
took effect, and both being in pro3senti, when maps were filed and approved they took effect by relation as of the date of the act.
The United States having by the forfeiture act of July 6, 1886, become
possessed of all the rights and interests of the Atlantic and Pacific Com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.
pany in this grant within the limits of California, had an equal undivided
moiety in all the odd-numbered sections which lie within the conflicting
place limits of the grant to the Atlantic and Pacific Company and of
that made to the Southern Pacific Company by the act of July 27, 1866,
and the Southern Pacific Company holds the other equal undivided moiety
thereof.
THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.Xr. Joseph I. Call for the United States.
.Y.

.Maxwell Evarts and -D'. L.

. Payson for appellants.

MR.J sTiCE B.REwER delivered the opinion of the court.
On May 14, 1894, the United States filed in the Circuit Court
for the Southern District of California a bill of complaint
against the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, (hereinafter
called the Southern Pacific,) and others, seeking to have certain
patents canceled and their title quieted to a large body of land,
including those described in said patents. Upon pleading and
proofs a decree was entered in favor of the United States on
June 6, 1898, quieting their title to most of the lands described
in the bill. 86 Fed. Rep. 962. Cross appeals were taken from
such decree to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, by which court the decree was affirmed on October 2,
1899. 98 Fed. Rep. 27. From such decree of affirmance both
parties have appealed to this court.
The lands in controversy were within the grant made
July 27, 1866, c. 278, 14 Stat. 292, to the Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad Company, (hereinafter called the Atlantic and Pacific,)
in aid of its projected line from Springfield, Missouri, to the
Pacific Ocean, and were situated along that line between the
eastern boundary of California and the Pacific Ocean. The
Southern Pacific claims title to these lands by virtue of the
eighteenth section of that act and its proceedings thereunder,
had with the express approval of Congress.
Litigation has heretofore been had between the United States
and the Southern Pacific in reference to lands along the line of

SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D CO. v. UNITED STATES. 521
Opinion of the Court.

the Atlantic and Pacific, the result of which litigation will be
found in the following decisions of this court: United States
v. Southern Pacift Railroad Company, 146 U. S. 570 ; United
States v. Colton MAarble & Lime Company, and United States v.
Southern Paoigce Railroad Company, 146 U. S. 615, and Southern Paci/Fc Railroad Company v. United States, 168 U. S. 1.
Those decisions are claimed by the Government to be controlling of this case on the principle of res judicata.
There are, therefore, two distinct questions presented for our
consideration: First, whether the Southern Pacific took any
title to these lands by virtue of the act of 1866 or subsequent
legislation? and, second, do the prior decisions of this court
control the determination of this case?
With reference to the first question, a further statement of
facts is necessary. The act of 1866 chartered the Atlantic and
Pacific, empowered it to build a railroad from Springfield in
Missouri to the Pacific Ocean, the description of the latter part
of the route being in these words:
"Thence along the thirty-fifth parallel of latitude, as near as
may be found most suitable for a railway route, to the Colorado
River, at such point as may be selected by said company for
crossing; thence by the most practicable and eligible route to
the Pacific."
By the third section a grant of lands was made to said company in these words:
"S Ec. 3. And be it further enacted, That there be, and hereby is, granted to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company,
its successors and assigns, for the purpose of aiding in the construction of said railroad and telegraph line to the Pacific Coast,
every alternate section of public land, not mineral, designated by odd numbers, to the amount of twenty alternate
sections per mile, on each side of said railroad line, as said
company may adopt, through the Territories of the United
States, and ten alternate sections of land per mile on each side
of said railroad whenever it passes through any State, and
whenever, on the line thereof, the United States have full title,
not reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, and free
from preemption or other claims or rights, at the time the line

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

of said road is designated by a plat thereof filed in the office
of the Commissioner of the General Land Office; and whenever, prior to said time, any of said sections or parts of sections
shall have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead
settlers, or preempted, or otherwise disposed of, other lands
shall be selected by said company in lieu thereof, under the
direction of the Secretary of the Interior, in alternate sections,
and designated by odd numbers, not more than ten miles beyond the limits of said alternate sections and not including the
reserved numbers."
The company filed its map of definite location in 18,72, but
never did any work in the way of constructing that part of its
road from the Colorado River, that being the eastern boundary
of California, to the Pacific Ocean. On July 6, 1886, Congress
passed an act forfeiting the lands granted to the Atlantic and
Pacific, so far as they were 'adjacent to and coterminous with
the uncompleted portions of the road. 24 Stat. 123, c. 637.
By this act the interest of the Atlantic and Pacific in public
lands in the State of California was divested and restored to the
United States.
On December 2, 1865, the Southern Pacific was incorporated
under the laws of California, "for the purpose of constructing,
owning and maintaining a railroad from some point on the Bay
of San Francisco in the State of California, and to pass through
the counties of Santa Clara, Monterey, San Luis Obispo, Tulare,
Los Angeles and San Diego to the town of San Diego in said
State, thence eastward through the said county of San Diego
to the eastern line of the State of California, there to connect
with a contemplated railroad from said eastern line of the State
of California to the Mississippi River."
Section 18 of the act of 1866 reads as follows:
"Ad be itfurtker enacted, That the Southern Pacific Railroad, a company incorporated under the laws of the State of
California, is hereby authorized to connect with the said Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad, formed under this act, at such point, near
the boundary line of the State of California, as they shall deem
most suitable for a railroad line to San Francisco, and shall
have a uniform gauge and rate of freight or fare with said

SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D CO. ,v. UNITED STATES. 523
Opinion of the Court.

road; and in consideration thereof, to aid in its construction,
shall have similar grants of land, subject to all the conditions and
limitations herein provided, and shall be required to construct
its road on the like regulations, as to time and manner, with
the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad herein provided for."
On January 3, 1867, the Southern Pacific filed in the Interior
Department a map of a route from San Francisco via Mojave
to iNeedles, on the Colorado River. This line from Mojave to
Needles is on the same general course and contiguous to that
adopted by the Atlantic and Pacific. The Secretary of the
Interior refused to accept or approve the map on the ground
that this particular part of the line was not authorized by the
charter of the Southern Pacific. On April 4, 1870, the legislature of California passed the following act:
"Whereas, by the provisions of a certain act of Congress of
the United States of America, entitled 'An act granting lands
to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from
San Francisco to the eastern line of the State of California,'
approved July 27, 1866, certain grants were made to, and
certain rights, privileges, powers and authority were vested
in and conferred upon the Southern Pacific Railroad Company,
a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of
the State of California, therefore, to enable the said company to
more fully and completely comply with and perform the requirements, provisions and conditions of the said act of Congress,
and all other acts of Congress now in force, or which may hearafter be enacted, the State of California hereby consents to said
act; and the said company, its successors and assigns, are hereby authorized and empowered to change the line of its railroad
so as to reach the eastern boundary line of the State of California by such route as the company shall determine to be the
most practicable, and to file new and amendatory articles of
association, and the right, power and privileges hereby granted
to, conferred upon and vested in them, to construct, maintain
and operate, by steam or other power, the said railroad and
telegraph line mentioned in said act of Congress, hereby confirming to and vesting in the said company, its successors and
assigns, all the rights, privileges, franchises, power and authority

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

conferred upon, granted to or vested in said company by the
said acts of Congress and any act of Congress which may be
hereafter enacted." Statutes, California, 1869-70, p. 883.
And on June 28, 1870, Congress passed the following joint
resolution, 16 Stat. 382:
".Be it resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of -America in Congress assembled, That
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company of California may construct its road and telegraph line, as near as may be, on the route
indicated by the map filed by said company in the Department
of the Interior on the third day of January, eighteen hundred
and sixty-seven; and upon the construction of each section of
said road, in the manner and within the time provided by law,
and notice thereof being given by the company to the Secretary of the Interior, he shall direct an examination of each
such section by commissioners to be appointed by the President, as provided in the act making a grant of land to said
company, approved July twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and
sixty-six, and upon the report of the commissioners to the Secretary of the Interior that such section of said railroad and
telegraph line has been constructed as required by law, it shall
be the duty of the said Secretary of the Interior to cause patents to be issued to said company for the sections of land coterminous to each constructed section reported on as aforesaid,
to the extent and amount granted to said company by the said
act of July twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and sixty-six,
expressly saving and reserving all the rights of actual settlers,
together with the other conditions and restrictions provided for
in the third section of said act."
Along this general line the Southern Pacific constructed its
road. As California said, in reference to the grant made to the
Southern Pacific by section 18 of the act of Congress of July 27,
1866, that it "hereby consents to said act," and as Congress,
by its resolution, approved the route selected by the Southern
Pacific as a route authorized by that a6t, no one can question
that the construction of the road was under such circumstances
as entitle the company to the benefit of the grant made by said
eighteenth section of the act of 1866.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D CO. v. UNITED STATES. 525
Opinion of the Court.

By the act of 1866, Congress made grants of land to two
different companies; by the third section to the Atlantic and
Pacific,. and by the eighteenth section to the Southern Pacific.
The settled rule of construction is that where by the same act,
or by acts of the same date, grants of land are made to two
separate companies, in so far as the limits of their grants conflict by crossing or lapping, each company takes an equal, undivided moiety of the lands within the conflict. Neither acquires
all by priority of location or priority of construction. St. Paul
& Sioux City Railroad v. Vinona & St. Paul Railroad,112
U. S. 720; Sioux City Railroad v. Chicago Railroad, 117
U. S.406; Donahuev. Lake Superior CLaal &c., 155 U. S. 386;
Sioux City &o. Railroad v. United States, 159 U. S.34:9.
The question as to the two grants under this act of 1866
was presented to Mr. Justice Lamar, at that tinue Secretary of
the Interior, and his ruling to the same effect appears in a letter of instructions to the acting Commissioner of the General
Land Office on November 25, 1887. 6 Land Dec. 349. In that
letter he said :
"The Southern Pacific Company located its main line January 3, 1867, and by the terms of the grant its right immediately
attached to every odd section of land, not of the character excepted by the grant, and within the ten-mile limit, subject, however, to be divested to the extent of a half interest in every such
odd section that might fall within the common limits of both
roads, after the filing of the map of definite location by the Atlantic and Pacific Company.
"The Atlantic and Pacific Company flied its map of definite.
location April 11, 1872, and April 16, 1874, showing that the
primary or granted limits of said road overlapped and conflicted
with the primary or granted limits of a portion of the Southern
Pacific road. As to the lands falling within the granted limits
of both roads, the filing of the map of definite location by the
Atlantic and Pacific Company, showing such conflict, immediately divested the Southern Pacific Company of the right and
title to a half interest in all such odd sections, and from that
moment and by that act the two companies became entitled to
equal, undivided moieties in such sections, without regard to,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901
Opinion of the Court.

the priority of location of the line of the road, or priority of
construction; the right of each company relating back to the
date of the grant. St. Paul c&Sioux City Railroad v. Winona
& St. Paul Railroad,112 U. S. 720; Sioux City Railroad v.
Chicago Railroad, 117 U. S. 406."
As against this, it is contended that Congress could not have
intended a road running from the western to the eastern border
of California, parallel and contiguous to the Atlantic and Pacific road; that it must have intended a connection between
the two roads on the western boundary or border of the State
-especially in view of the fact that the charter of the Southern
Pacific contemplated only a line along the western part of the
State from San Francisco to San Diego. Whatever doubts
there might be in respect to this matter are removed by the action taken by the Southern Pacific and the resolution of June 28,
1870. The railroad company assumed that it had a right under
the act of 1866 to locate a line to the eastern boundary of California, and did locate such a line, and filed a map thereof with
the Secretary of the Interior, and Congress by the joint resolution of June 28 in effect accepted and approved that line, and
declared that the railroad company might construct its road on
the route indicated on that map.
Neither is the date of this resolution the time at which the
rights of the railroad company arose, as is contended by counsel. No new land grant was contemplated; no substitution of
one grant for another, or of one line for another. The obvious
purpose was to accept the line proffered by the road as the line
intended by the act of 1866, and the grant made by the act of
1866 was recognized as rightfully to be used in aid of the construction of a road along the line suggested by the company.
Neither is it material whether the line indicated on the map
filed is to be taken as a line of general route or of definite location, for in fact the road was constructed along that line, "as
near as may be," in the language of the resolution, and the road
has been accepted by the Government.
Neither does the fact that the line of road contemplated by
the Southern Pacific's charter, at the time of the passage of the
act of 1866, was along the western border of the State, prevent

SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D CO. v. UNITED STATES. 527
Opinion of the Court.

the operation of the grant. It is well settled that Congress
has power to grant to a corporation created by a State additional franchises-at least franchises of a similar nature. Sinking Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700, 727; Pacifc Railroad Removal
Cases, 115 U. S. 1, 15 ; Californiav. Central Pacific Railroad,
127 U. S. 1; United States v. Stanford, 161 U. S. 412, 431;
Central Pacifo Railroadv. California,162 U. S. 91, 118, 123.
In Californiav. Paoifo RailroadCompany, supra,this very
grant was before the court, and M r. Justice Bradley, on page 44,
having theretofore narrated the facts in reference to various
charters and grants, said:
"An examination of the acts referred to in these findings
shows that Congress authorized the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company to connect with the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad,
at such point near the boundary line of the State of California,
as it should deem most suitable for a railroad line to San Franciso; and, to aid in the construction of such a railroad line, Congress declared that the company should have similar grants of
land, and should be required to construct its road on the like
regulations, as to time and manner, with the Atlantic and Pacific. Like powers were also given to the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company to construct a line of railroad from Tehachapa Pass, by way of Los Angeles, to the Texas Pacifi' road
at the Colorado River (Fort Yuma). The Southern Pacific
Company was not authorized by its original charter to extend
its railroad to the Colorado River, as we already know by other
cases brought before us, and as appears by the act of the state
legislature passed April 4, 1870, which assumed to authorize
the company to change the line of its railroad so as to reach
the eastern boundary line of the State; thus duplicating the
power given to it by the act of Congress. (See the state act
quoted in 118 U. S. 399.) This state legislation was probably
procured to remove all doubts with regard to the company's
power to construct such roads. It is apparent, however, that
the franchise to do so was fully conferred by Congress, and
that franchise was accepted, and the roads have been constructed in conformity thereto."
We are of the opinion, therefore, that Mr. Secretary Lamar

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

was right in his conclusion that both the grant to the Southern
Pacific and that to the Atlantic and Pacific took effect, and being by the same act, so far as there was a conflict, the two
companies took equal, undivided moieties of the land.
We pass, therefore, to a consideration of the second question:
Do prior decisions of this court control the determination of
this case? United States v. Southern Pacific Railroad Company, 146 U. S. 570 ; United States v. Colton MAarle & Lime
Co., and United States v. Southern Paci~o Railroad Company,
146 U. S. 615, and Southern Pacific Railroad Company v.
United States, 168 U. S. 1, are referred to. Those cases were
brought by the United States against the Southern Pacific to
quiet title to certain lands (but not the lands in controversy
here) along the line of the Atlantic and Pacific within the
State of California. In the last of these three cases the principle of resjudicata was invoked and held applicable; and the
title of the Government to the lands involved was sustained
on the ground that the question in controversy had been finally
determined in the prior suits. In the opinion filed there was
much discussion in respect to res judicata, and it was said, on
page 48:
"The general principle announced in numerous cases is that
a right, question or fact distinctly put in issue and directly determined by a court of competent jurisdiction, as a ground of
recovery, cannot be disputed in a subsequent suit between the
same parties or their privies; and even if the second suit is for
a different cause of action, the right, question or fact once so
determined must, as between the same parties or their privies,
be taken as conclusively established so long as the judgment in
the first suit remains unmodified."
See also NLrew Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, 167 U. S. 371, 396,
in which the rule was thus stated:
"The estoppel resulting from the thing adjudged does not
depend upon whether there is the same demand in both cases,
but exists, even although there be different demands, when the
question upon which the recovery of the second demand depends
has under identical circumstances and conditions been previously concluded by a judgment between the parties or their
privies."

SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D CO. v. UNITED STATES. 529
Opinion of the Court.

It becomes, therefore, important to determine what was decided in the prior cases, and in order to a clear understanding
these additional facts must be borne in mind: On March 3,
1871, Congress passed an act, 16 Stat. 573, to incorporate the
Texas and Pacific Railroad Company, the twenty-third section
of which reads:
"That for the purpose of connecting the Texas Pacific Railroad with the city of San Francisco, the Southern Pacific Railroad Company of California is hereby authorized (subject to
the laws of California) to construct a line of railroad from a
point at or near Tehachapa Pass, by way of Los Angeles, to
the Texas Pacific Railroad at or near the Colorado River, with
the same rights, grants and privileges, and subject to the same
limitations, restrictions and conditions as were granted to said
Southern Pacific Railroad Company of California by the act
of July twenty-seven, eighteen hundred and sixty-six: Provided, however, That this section shall, in no way affect or impair the rights, present or prospective, of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company or any other railroad company."
On April 3, 1871, the Southern Pacific filed a map of a route
from Tehachapa Pass southward by way of Los Angeles to
connect with the Texas and Pacific Railroad at the Colorado
River, and subsequently constructed a road on such line. This
line crossed that of the Atlantic and Pacific, the general course
of the former being north and south and of the latter east and
west. The grants, therefore, to the Atlantic and Pacific by
the act of July 27, 1866, and that to the Southern Pacific by
the act of March 3, 1871, came in conflict at or near the place
of intersection of their lines. The lands in controversy in those
suits were lands within the granted limits of both companies at
the place of conflict. It was so distinctly stated in the opening of the opinion in the first case referred to:
"The question to be considered is not as to validity of the
grant to the Southern Pacific Company, but only as to its
extent. It may be conceded that the company took title to
lands generally along its line, from Tehachapa Pass to its
junction with the Texas and Pacific; and the contention of the
Government is here limited to those lands only which lie within
VOL.

cLxxxni-34:

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the granted limits of both the Atlantic and Pacific and the
Southern Pacific Companies, at the crossing of their lines, as
definitely located." p. 592.
Both grants were grants inprasenti,and when the maps of
definite location were filed and approved the grants took effect
by relation as of the dates of the acts. Hence, if each company
filed a map of definite location the title of the Atlantic and
Pacific, relating back to the year 1866, was anterior and
superior to that of the Southern Pacific, of date 18'7i, and all
the lands within the conflict passed to the Atlantic and Pacific
rather than to the Southern Pacific. To avoid the effect of
this conclusion-a conclusion resting upon well-settled principles
of public land law-the Southern Pacific contended that no
map of definite location was ever filed by the Atlantic and
Pacific, or approved by the Secretary of the Interior, but after
a full examination of the facts this court held otherwise, summing up its conclusions in these words:
";Our conclusions, therefore, are, that a valid and sufficient
map of definite location of its route from the Colorado River
to the Pacific Ocean was filed by the Atlantic and Pacific
Company, and approved by the Secretary of the Interior; that
by such act the title to these lands passed, under the grant of
1866, to the Atlantic and Pacific Company, and remained held
by it subject to a condition subsequent until the act of forfeiture
of 1886; that by that act of forfeiture the title of the Atlantic
and Pacific was retaken by the General Government, and retaken for its own benefit, and not that of the Southern Pacific
Company; and that the latter company has no title of any
kind to these lands." p. 607.
So, in the opinion in the last of the three cases, is this statement of the facts and question.
"The principal contention of the United States is that the
lands in dispute are in the same category in every respect with
those in controversy in United States v. Southern Pacic Railroad, 146 U. S. 570, and United States v. Colton Marble &
Lime Co., and United States v. Southern Pacific Railroad,146
U. S.615 ; and that, so far as the question of title is concerned,
the judgments in those cases have conclusively determined, as

SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D CO. v. UNITED STATES. 631
Opinion of the Court.

between the United States and the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company and its privies, the essential facts upon which the
Government rests its present claim.
"Stated in another form, the United States insists that in the
former cases the controlling matter in issue was, whether certain maps filed by the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company
in 1872, and which were accepted by the Land Department as
sufficiently designating that company's line of road under the
act of Congress of Tuly 27, 1866, c. 278, 14 Stat. 292, were valid
maps of deflit location; the United States contending in
those cases that they were, and the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company contending that they were not, maps of that character; that that issue was determined in favor of the United
States; and that as the lands now in dispute are within the
limits of the line of road so designated, it is not open to the
Southern Pacific Railroad Company, in this proceeding, to question the former determination that such maps sufficiently identified the lands granted to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company by the act of 1866, and were therefore valid maps of
definite location." p. 25.
. And again, on page 29, after a quotation of the twenty-third
section of the act of March 3, 1871, is this declaration:
"The Southern Pacific Railroad Company constructed the
road thus contemplated, and claims that the lands here in dispute passed to it under the above act of 1871.,,
So also on page 46:
"The lands now in controversy are situated opposite to and
are coterminous with the first, second and fourth sections of the
Southern Pacific Railroad as constructed between 1873 and
1877, inclusive, and within the primary and indemnity limits of
the grant to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company made by
the twenty-third section of the Texas and Pacific act of March 3,
1871."
And on page 61 the conclusion was summed up in these words:
"For the reasons stated, we are of opinion that it must be
taken in this case to have been conclusively adjudicated in the
former cases, as between the United States and the Southern
Pacific Railroad Company-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the CourL.

"1. That the maps filed by the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad
Company in 1872 were sufficient, as maps of definite location,
to identify the lands granted to that company by the act of 1866;
"2. That upon the acceptance of those maps by the Land
Department the rights of that company in the lands so granted,
attached, by relation as of the date of the act of 1866; and
"3. That in view of the conditions attached to the grant, and
of the reservations of power in Congress contained in the act of
1866, such lands became, upon the passage of the forfeiture act
of 1886, the property of the United States, and by force of that
act were restored to the public domain without the Southern
Pacific Railroad Company having acquired any interest therein
that affected the power of the United States to forfeit and restore them to the public domain.
"These grounds being accepted as the basis of our decision,
the law in the present case is clearly for the United States; for,
as all the lands here in controversy are embraced by the maps
of 1872, and therefore appertain to the line located by such
maps, it must be, for the reasons stated in the former decision,
that the United States is entitled, as between it and the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, to the relief given by the decree
below."
Obviously the fact settled by the decisions in those cases was
the filing by the Atlantic and Pacific of an approved map of
definite location. Upon that the controversy hinged. Such a
map having been filed the title of the Atlantic and Pacific
vested as of the date of the act of July 27, 1866, and inasmuch
as the Southern Pacific claimed only by a grant of date March 3,
1871, it took no title. This which is apparent from the foregoing quotations is emphasized by the full discussions in the opinions, as well as by the allegations in the pleadings upon which
the cases were tried. That fact having been determined must
be taken in the present suit as not open to dispute. The Atlantic and Pacific did file a sufficient map of definite location of
its line from the Colorado River to the Pacific Ocean, and such
map was approved by the Secretary of the Interior. Its title,
therefore, to the land within the limits of the grant in California took effect as of date July 27, 1866. No claim of right

SOUTHERN PACIFIC RD CO. v. UNITED STATES. 533
Opinion of the Court.

or title arising only in 1871 and created by an act of that date
could affect its title.
But it was not adjudged in those cases either that the Southern Pacific had no title to any real estate by virtue of the act
of 1866, or that if there was any real estate to which it had any

claim or right by virtue of that act, such claim was not of equal
force with that of the Atlantic and Pacific. The general statement at the close of the quotation from 146 U. S. 607, "that
the latter company has no title of any kind to these lands,"
and the similar statement in paragraph 3 of the quotation from
168 'U. S. 61, are to be taken as applicable only to the facts presented, and cannot be construed as announcing any determination as to matters and questions not appearing in the records.
Of course, the decrees that were rendered in those cases are
conclusive of the title to the property involved in them, no matter what claims or rights either party may have had and failed
to produce, but as to property which was not involved in those
suits they are conclusive only as to the matters which were
actually litigated and determined. "On principle, a point not
in litigation in one action cannot be received as conclusively
settled in any subsequent action upon a different cause, because
it might have been determined in'the first action." Cromwell
v. County of Sao, 94: U. S. 351, 356. "The particular matter in
controversy in the adverse suit was the triangular piece of
ground, which is not the matter of dispute in this action. The
judgment in that case is therefore not conclusive in this as to
matters which might have been decided, but only as to matters
which were in fact decided." Last Chance XMining Co. v. Tyler
.Xining Co., 157 U. S. 683, 687. The question here presented
was not determined in the prior cases, and is whether the
Southern Pacific acquired any title to lands other than those
involved in those suits by virtue of the act of 1866, and that
question, as we have seen, must be answered in the affirmative.
Nor is this a mere technical difference between those cases and
this. Counsel for the railroad company call the line from
Mojave southward via Los Angeles to connect with the Texas
and Pacific a "branch line," and that eastward from Mojave
to Needles to connect with the Atlantic and Pacific a "main

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

line;" but by whatever names these two lines are called, they
were built under the authority of two different statutes; the
line from Mojave southward via Los Angeles under the authority of the act of Congress of March 3, 1871, an act which in
terms authorized the building of a road from a point at or near
Tehachapa Pass, which is in the vicinity of Mojave, southward
by way of Los Angeles to connect with the Texas and Pacific,
and gave no authority to build a line eastward from Mojave to
connect with the Atlantic and Pacific; the line from Mojave
eastward, under the act of 1866, which authorized the Southern Pacific to connect with the Atlantic and Pacific at or near
the boundary of the State. The route which was selected by
the company for this line was approved by Congress as authorized by the act of 1866. Hence the one line was built under
the authority of the act of 1871, and the other under the authority of the act of 1866.
Our conclusions, therefore, are that the United States, having
become by the forfeiture act of July 6, 1886, repossessed of all
the rights and interests of the Atlantic and Pacific in this grant
within the limits of California, hold an equal, undivided moiety
in all the odd-numbered sections which lie within the conflicting place limits of the grant to the Atlantic and Pacific and of
that made to the Southern Pacific by the act of July 27, 1866;
and that the Southern Pacific holds the other equal, undivided
moiety therein. The United States and the Southern Pacific
being, therefore, tenants in common of a large body of lands, a
partition is necessary. It was suggested by Secretary Lamar,
in the letter heretofore referred to, that the Southern Pacific
take only every other alternate odd-numbered section. We see
no impropriety in such mode of partition, though, under the
case as it stands, we can make no order to that effect. In
whatever way partition may be made, equity requires that the
lands which the Southern Pacific has assumed to sell and which
were excepted by the Circuit Court from the decree in favor of
the United States, and in respect to which they took their cross
appeal, must be among those set off to the Southern Pacific,
and thus the title of the purchasers be perfected. It is needless,
therefore, to consider the merits of the cross appeal of the United States.

UNITED STATES TRUST CO. v. NEW MEXICO.

535

Syllabus.

It is also unnecessary to determine the rights of the Southern
Pacific to lands outside the limits of conflict. It having been
adjudged that the Southern Pacific, by the construction of its
road eastward from Mojave to Needles, became entitled to the
benefit of the grant made by the eighteenth section of the act
of 1866, the adjustment of the grant is properly to be had in
the Land Department, subject, of course, if necessary, to further contests in the courts.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit, afflrming the decree of the Circuit Courtfor the Southern,District qf Californiawill be reversed and the case remanded to the Circuit Court with instructions to enter a
decree .quietingthe title of the United States to an equal,undivided moiety in all alternate sections within the place or
grantedlimits of the Atlantic and Pa(ific in California,so
far as those limits conflict with the like limits of the Southern
Pacific, excecting therefrom those lands in respect to which
there has been some prior adjudication,and to dismiss the
bill as to all other lands withoutprejudice to any future suit
or action.

UNITED STATES TRUST COMPANY v. NEW MEXICO.
NEW MEXICO v. UNITED STATES TRUST COMPANY.
CROSS APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
NEW MEXICo.
Hos. 181, 182. Argued October 30, 31, 190.-Decided January 6, 1902.
An agreed statement of facts may be the equivalent of a special verdict, or
a finding of facts upon which a reviewing court may declare the applicable law if said agreed statement is of the ultimate facts, but if it be
merely a recital of testimony, or evidential fact, it brings nothing before
an appellate court for consideration.
The certified statement of facts is insufficient, and presents nothing for examination.
There was no invalidity in the facts of additional assessments.

