COHEN v. COWLES MEDIA CO.
Syllabus

COHEN v. COWLES MEDIA CO., DBA MINNEAPOLIS
STAR & TRIBUNE CO., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA
No. 90-634.

Argued March 27, 1991-Decided June 24, 1991

During the 1982 Minnesota gubernatorial race, petitioner Cohen, who was
associated with one party's campaign, gave court records concerning another party's candidate for Lieutenant Governor to respondent publishers' newspapers after receiving a promise of confidentiality from their
reporters. Nonetheless, the papers identified him in their stories, and
he was fired from his job. He filed suit against respondents in state
court, alleging, among other things, a breach of contract. The court
rejected respondents' argument that the First Amendment barred the
suit, and a jury awarded him, inter alia, compensatory damages. The
State Court of Appeals affirmed, but the State Supreme Court reversed,
holding that a contract cause of action was inappropriate. It then went
on to address the question whether Cohen could recover under state law
on a promissory estoppel theory even though that issue was never tried
to a jury, nor briefed nor argued by the parties, concluding that enforcement under such a theory would violate respondents' First Amendment
rights.
Held:
1. This Court has jurisdiction. Respondents' contention that the case
should be dismissed because the promissory estoppel theory was not argued or presented in the courts below and because the State Supreme
Court's decision rests entirely on a state-law interpretation is rejected.
It is irrelevant to this Court's jurisdiction whether a party raised below
and argued a federal-law issue that the state supreme court actually considered and decided. Orr v. Orr, 440 U. S. 268, 274-275. Moreover,
the Minnesota Supreme Court made clear that its holding rested on federal law, and respondents have defended against this suit all along by
arguing that the First Amendment barred the enforcement of the reporters' promises. Pp. 667-668.
2. The First Amendment does not bar a promissory estoppel cause of
action against respondents. Such a cause of action, although private,
involves state action within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment
and therefore triggers the First Amendment's protections, since promissory estoppel is a state-law doctrine creating legal obligations never explicitly assumed by the parties that are enforceable through the Minnesota courts' official power. Cf., e. g., New York Times Co. v. Sullivan,

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
Syllabus

501 U. S.

376 U. S. 254, 265. However, the doctrine is a law of general applicability that does not target or single out the press, but rather is applicable to
all Minnesota citizens' daily transactions. Thus, the First Amendment
does not require that its enforcement against the press be subject to
stricter scrutiny than would be applied to enforcement against others, cf.
Associated Press v. NLRB, 301 U. S. 103, 132-133, even if the payment
is characterized as compensatory damages. Nor does that Amendment
grant the press protection from any law which in any fashion or to any
degree limits or restricts its right to report truthful information. Florida Star v. B. J. F., 491 U. S. 524, distinguished. Moreover, Cohen
sought damages for a breach of promise that caused him to lose his job
and lowered his earning capacity, and did not attempt to use a promissory estoppel cause of action to avoid the strict requirements for establishing a libel or defamation claim. Hustler Magazine, Inc. v. Falwell,
485 U. S. 46, distinguished. Any resulting inhibition on truthful reporting is no more than the incidental, and constitutionally insignificant, consequence of applying to the press a generally applicable law requiring it
to keep certain promises. Pp. 668-672.
3. Cohen's request that his compensatory damages award be reinstated is rejected. The issues whether his verdict should be upheld on
the ground that a promissory estoppel claim had been established under
state law and whether the State Constitution may be construed to shield
the press from an action such as this one are matters for the State
Supreme Court to address and resolve in the first instance. P. 672.
457 N. W. 2d 199, reversed and remanded.
WHITE, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J., and STEVENS, SCALIA, and KENNEDY, JJ., joined. BLACKMUN, J.,
filed a dissenting opinion, in which MARSHALL and SOUTER, JJ., joined,
post, p. 672. SOUTER, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which MARSHALL,
BLACKMUN, and O'CONNOR, JJ., joined, post, p. 676.

Elliot C. Rothenberg argued the cause and filed briefs for
petitioner.
John D. French argued the cause for respondents. With
him on the brief for respondent Cowles Media Co. were John
Borger and Randy M. Lebedoff. Stephen M. Shapiro, Andrew L. Frey, Kenneth S. Geller, Mark I. Levy, Michael W.
McConnell, Paul R. Hannah, Laurie A. Zenner, John C.

COHEN v. COWLES MEDIA CO.
663

Opinion of the Court

Fontaine,and CristinaL. Mendoza filed a brief for respondent Northwest Publications, Inc.*
JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The question before us is whether the First Amendment
prohibits a plaintiff from recovering damages, under state
promissory estoppel law, for a newspaper's breach of a promise of confidentiality given to the plaintiff in exchange for information. We hold that it does not.
During the closing days of the 1982 Minnesota gubernatorial race, Dan Cohen, an active Republican associated with
Wheelock Whitney's Independent-Republican gubernatorial
campaign, approached reporters from the St. Paul Pioneer
Press Dispatch (Pioneer Press) and the Minneapolis Star and
Tribune (Star Tribune) and offered to provide documents relating to a candidate in the upcoming election. Cohen made
clear to the reporters that he would provide the information
only if he was given a promise of confidentiality. Reporters
from both papers promised to keep Cohen's identity anonymous and Cohen turned over copies of two public court records concerning Marlene Johnson, the Democratic-FarmerLabor candidate for Lieutenant Governor. The first record
indicated that Johnson had been charged in 1969 with three
counts of unlawful assembly, and the second that she had
been convicted in 1970 of petit theft. Both newspapers
interviewed Johnson for her explanation and one reporter
tracked down the person who had found the records for
Cohen. As it turned out, the unlawful assembly charges
arose out of Johnson's participation in a protest of an alleged
failure to hire minority workers on municipal construction
projects, and the charges were eventually dismissed. The
petit theft conviction was for leaving a store without paying
*Rex S. Heinke, Robert S. Warren, Jerry S. Birenz, Ralph P. Huber,
W. Terry Maguire, Rene P. Milam, Richard M. Schmidt, Harold W.
Fuson, Jr., Barbara Wartelle Wall, James E. Grossberg, George Freeman, and William A. Niese filed a brief for Advance Publications, Inc., et
al. as amici curiae.

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
Opinion of the Court

501 U. S.

for $6 worth of sewing materials. The incident apparently
occurred at a time during which Johnson was emotionally distraught, and the conviction was later vacated.
After consultation and debate, the editorial staffs of the
two newspapers independently decided to publish Cohen's
name as part of their stories concerning Johnson. In their
stories, both papers identified Cohen as the source of the
court records, indicated his connection to the Whitney campaign, and included denials by Whitney campaign officials of
any role in the matter. The same day the stories appeared,
Cohen was fired by his employer.
Cohen sued respondents, the publishers of the Pioneer
Press and Star Tribune, in Minnesota state court, alleging
fraudulent misrepresentation and breach of contract. The
trial court rejected respondents' argument that the First
Amendment barred Cohen's lawsuit. A jury returned a verdict in Cohen's favor, awarding him $200,000 in compensatory damages and $500,000 in punitive damages. The Minnesota Court of Appeals, in a split decision, reversed the
award of punitive damages after concluding that Cohen had
failed to establish a fraud claim, the only claim which would
support such an award. 445 N. W. 2d 248, 260 (1989).
However, the court upheld the finding of liability for breach
of contract and the $200,000 compensatory damages award.
Id., at 262.
A divided Minnesota Supreme Court reversed the compensatory damages award. 457 N. W. 2d 199 (1990). After
affirming the Court of Appeals' determination that Cohen
had not established a claim for fraudulent misrepresentation,
the court considered his breach-of-contract claim and concluded that "a contract cause of action is inappropriate for
these particular circumstances." Id., at 203. The court
then went on to address the question whether Cohen could
establish a cause of action under Minnesota law on a promissory estoppel theory. Apparently, a promissory estoppel
theory was never tried to the jury, nor briefed nor argued by

COHEN v. COWLES MEDIA CO.
663

Opinion of the Court

the parties; it first arose during oral argument in the Minnesota Supreme Court when one of the justices asked a question about equitable estoppel. See App. 38.
In addressing the promissory estoppel question, the court
decided that the most problematic element in establishing
such a cause of action here was whether injustice could be
avoided only by enforcing the promise of confidentiality made
to Cohen. The court stated: "Under a promissory estoppel
analysis there can be no neutrality towards the First Amendment. In deciding whether it would be unjust not to enforce
the promise, the court must necessarily weigh the same considerations that are weighed for whether the First Amendment has been violated. The court must balance the constitutional rights of a free press against the common law
interest in protecting a promise of anonymity." 457 N. W.
2d, at 205. After a brief discussion, the court concluded that
"in this case enforcement of the promise of confidentiality
under a promissory estoppel theory would violate defendants'
First Amendment rights." Ibid.
We granted certiorari to consider the First Amendment
implications of this case. 498 U. S. 1011 (1990).
Respondents initially contend that the Court should dismiss this case without reaching the merits because the promissory estoppel theory was not argued or presented in the
courts below and because the Minnesota Supreme Court's
decision rests entirely on the interpretation of state law.
These contentions do not merit extended discussion. It is irrelevant to this Court's jurisdiction whether a party raised
below and argued a federal-law issue that the state supreme
court actually considered and decided. Orr v. Orr, 440 U. S.
268, 274-275 (1979); Dun & Bradstreet, Inc. v. Greenmoss
Builders, Inc., 472 U. S. 749, 754, n. 2 (1985); Mills v. Maryland, 486 U. S. 367, 371, n. 3 (1988); Franks v. Delaware,
438 U. S. 154, 161-162 (1978); Jenkins v. Georgia, 418 U. S.
153, 157 (1974). Moreover, that the Minnesota Supreme
Court rested its holding on federal law could not be made

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
Opinion of the Court

501 U. S.

more clear than by its conclusion that "in this case enforcement of the promise of confidentiality under a promissory estoppel theory would violate defendants' First Amendment
rights." 457 N. W. 2d, at 205. It can hardly be said that
there is no First Amendment issue present in the case when
respondents have defended against this suit all along by arguing that the First Amendment barred the enforcement of
the reporters' promises to Cohen. We proceed to consider
whether that Amendment bars a promissory estoppel cause
of action against respondents.
The initial question we face is whether a private cause of
action for promissory estoppel involves "state action" within
the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment such that the
protections of the First Amendment are triggered. For if it
does not, then the First Amendment has no bearing on this
case. The rationale of our decision in New York Times Co.
v. Sullivan, 376 U. S. 254 (1964), and subsequent cases compels the conclusion that there is state action here. Our cases
teach that the application of state rules of law in state courts
in a manner alleged to restrict First Amendment freedoms
constitutes "state action" under the Fourteenth Amendment.
See, e. g., id., at 265; NAACP v. Claiborne Hardware Co.,
458 U. S. 886, 916, n. 51 (1982); PhiladelphiaNewspapers,
Inc. v. Hepps, 475 U. S. 767, 777 (1986). In this case, the
Minnesota Supreme Court held that if Cohen could recover
at all it would be on the theory of promissory estoppel, a
state-law doctrine which, in the absence of a contract, creates
obligations never explicitly assumed by the parties. These
legal obligations would be enforced through the official power
of the Minnesota courts. Under our cases, that is enough
to constitute "state action" for purposes of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Respondents rely on the proposition that "if a newspaper
lawfully obtains truthful information about a matter of public
significance then state officials may not constitutionally punish publication of the information, absent a need to further a

COHEN v. COWLES MEDIA CO.
663

Opinion of the Court

state interest of the highest order." Smith v. Daily Mail
Publishing Co., 443 U. S. 97, 103 (1979). That proposition
is unexceptionable, and it has been applied in various cases
that have found insufficient the asserted state interests in
preventing publication of truthful, lawfully obtained information. See, e. g., FloridaStar v. B. J. F., 491 U. S. 524
(1989); Smith v. Daily Mail, supra; Landmark Communications, Inc. v. Virginia, 435 U. S. 829 (1978).
This case, however, is not controlled by this line of cases
but, rather, by the equally well-established line of decisions
holding that generally applicable laws do not offend the First
Amendment simply because their enforcement against the
press has incidental effects on its ability to gather and report
the news. As the cases relied on by respondents recognize,
the truthful information sought to be published must have
been lawfully acquired. The press may not with impunity
break and enter an office or dwelling to gather news. Neither does the First Amendment relieve a newspaper reporter
of the obligation shared by all citizens to respond to a grand
jury subpoena and answer questions relevant to a criminal investigation, even though the reporter might be required to
reveal a confidential source. Branzburg v. Hayes, 408 U. S.
665 (1972). The press, like others interested in publishing,
may not publish copyrighted material without obeying the
copyright laws. See Zacchini v. Scripps-Howard Broadcasting Co., 433 U. S. 562, 576-579 (1977). Similarly, the
media must obey the National Labor Relations Act, Associated Press v. NLRB, 301 U. S. 103 (1937), and the Fair
Labor Standards Act, Oklahoma Press Publishing Co. v.
Walling, 327 U. S. 186, 192-193 (1946); may not restrain
trade in violation of the antitrust laws, Associated Press v.
United States, 326 U. S. 1 (1945); Citizen Publishing Co. v.
United States, 394 U. S. 131, 139 (1969); and must pay nondiscriminatory taxes, Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 319 U. S.
105, 112 (1943); Minneapolis Star & Tribune Co. v. Minnesota Comm'r of Revenue, 460 U. S. 575, 581-583 (1983).

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
Opinion of the Court

501 U. S.

Cf. University of Pennsylvania v. EEOC, 493 U. S. 182,
201-202 (1990). It is, therefore, beyond dispute that "[t]he
publisher of a newspaper has no special immunity from the
application of general laws. He has no special privilege to
invade the rights and liberties of others." Associated Press
v. NLRB, supra, at 132-133. Accordingly, enforcement of
such general laws against the press is not subject to stricter
scrutiny than would be applied to enforcement against other
persons or organizations.
There can be little doubt that the Minnesota doctrine of
promissory estoppel is a law of general applicability. It does
not target or single out the press. Rather, insofar as we are
advised, the doctrine is generally applicable to the daily
transactions of all the citizens of Minnesota. The First
Amendment does not forbid its application to the press.
JUSTICE BLACKMUN

suggests that applying Minnesota

promissory estoppel doctrine in this case will "punish"
respondents for publishing truthful information that was lawfully obtained. Post, at 675-676. This is not strictly accurate because compensatory damages are not a form of punishment, as were the criminal sanctions at issue in Smith v.
Daily Mail, supra. If the contract between the parties in
this case had contained a liquidated damages provision, it
would be perfectly clear that the payment to petitioner would
represent a cost of acquiring newsworthy material to be published at a profit, rather than a punishment imposed by the
State. The payment of compensatory damages in this case is
constitutionally indistinguishable from a generous bonus paid
to a confidential news source. In any event, as indicated
above, the characterization of the payment makes no difference for First Amendment purposes when the law being applied is a general law and does not single out the press.

Moreover, JUSTICE BLACKMUN's reliance on cases like Florida Star v. B. J. F., supra, and Smith v. Daily Mail is misplaced. In those cases, the State itself defined the content
of publications that would trigger liability. Here, by con-

COHEN v. COWLES MEDIA CO.
663

Opinion of the Court

trast, Minnesota law simply requires those making promises
to keep them. The parties themselves, as in this case, determine the scope of their legal obligations, and any restrictions
that may be placed on the publication of truthful information
are self-imposed.
Also, it is not at all clear that respondents obtained Cohen's name "lawfully" in this case, at least for purposes of
publishing it. Unlike the situation in Florida Star, where
the rape victim's name was obtained through lawful access to
a police report, respondents obtained Cohen's name only by
making a promise that they did not honor. The dissenting
opinions suggest that the press should not be subject to any
law, including copyright law for example, which in any fashion or to any degree limits or restricts the press' right to
report truthful information. The First Amendment does not
grant the press such limitless protection.
Nor is Cohen attempting to use a promissory estoppel
cause of action to avoid the strict requirements for establishing a libel or defamation claim. As the Minnesota Supreme
Court observed here, "Cohen could not sue for defamation
because the information disclosed [his name] was true." 457
N. W. 2d, at 202. Cohen is not seeking damages for injury
to his reputation or his state of mind. He sought damages in
excess of $50,000 for breach of a promise that caused him to
lose his job and lowered his earning capacity. Thus, this is
not a case like Hustler Magazine, Inc. v. Falwell, 485 U. S.
46 (1988), where we held that the constitutional libel standards apply to a claim alleging that the publication of a parody
was a state-law tort of intentional infliction of emotional
distress.
Respondents and amici argue that permitting Cohen to
maintain a cause of action for promissory estoppel will inhibit
truthful reporting because news organizations will have legal
incentives not to disclose a confidential source's identity even
when that person's identity is itself newsworthy. JUSTICE
SOUTER makes a similar argument.
But if this is the case,

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
BLACKMUN,

J., dissenting

501 U. S.

it is no more than the incidental, and constitutionally insignificant, consequence of applying to the press a generally
applicable law that requires those who make certain kinds
of promises to keep them. Although we conclude that the
First Amendment does not confer on the press a constitutional right to disregard promises that would otherwise be
enforced under state law, we reject Cohen's request that in
reversing the Minnesota Supreme Court's judgment we reinstate the jury verdict awarding him $200,000 in compensatory damages. See Brief for Petitioner 31. The Minnesota Supreme Court's incorrect conclusion that the First
Amendment barred Cohen's claim may well have truncated
its consideration of whether a promissory estoppel claim
had otherwise been established under Minnesota law and
whether Cohen's jury verdict could be upheld on a promissory estoppel basis. Or perhaps the State Constitution
may be construed to shield the press from a promissory estoppel cause of action such as this one. These are matters
for the Minnesota Supreme Court to address and resolve in
the first instance on remand. Accordingly, the judgment of
the Minnesota Supreme Court is reversed, and the case is
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
So ordered.
JUSTICE BLACKMUN, with whom JUSTICE MARSHALL
JUSTICE SOUTER join, dissenting.

and

I agree with the Court that the decision of the Supreme
Court of Minnesota rested on federal grounds and that the judicial enforcement of petitioner's promissory estoppel claim
constitutes state action under the Fourteenth Amendment.
I do not agree, however, that the use of that claim to penalize
the reporting of truthful information regarding a political
campaign does not violate the First Amendment. Accordingly, I dissent.
The majority concludes that this case is not controlled by
the decision in Smith v. Daily Mail Publishing Co., 443

COHEN v. COWLES MEDIA CO.
663

BLACKMUN,

J., dissenting

U. S. 97 (1979), to the effect that a State may not punish the
publication of lawfully obtained, truthful information "absent
a need to further a state interest of the highest order." Id.,
at 103. Instead, we are told, the controlling precedent is
"the equally well-established line of decisions holding that
generally applicable laws do not offend the First Amendment
simply because their enforcement against the press has incidental effects on its ability to gather and report the news."
Ante, at 669. See, e. g., Branzburg v. Hayes, 408 U. S. 665
(1972); Oklahoma Press Publishing Co. v. Walling, 327
U. S. 186, 192-193 (1946); Minneapolis Star & Tribune Co.
v. Minnesota Comm'r of Revenue, 460 U. S. 575, 581-583
(1983). I disagree.
I do not read the decision of the Supreme Court of Minnesota to create any exception to, or immunity from, the laws of
that State for members of the press. In my view, the court's
decision is premised, not on the identity of the speaker, but
on the speech itself. Thus, the court found it to be of "critical significance," that "the promise of anonymity arises in the
classic First Amendment context of the quintessential public
debate in our democratic society, namely, a political source
involved in a political campaign." 457 N. W. 2d 199, 205
(1990); see also id., at 204, n. 6 ("New York Times v. Sullivan, 376 U. S. 254 . .. (1964), holds that a state may not
adopt a state rule of law to impose impermissible restrictions
on the federal constitutional freedoms of speech and press").
Necessarily, the First Amendment protection afforded respondents would be equally available to nonmedia defendants. See, e. g., Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444, 452 (1938)
("The liberty of the press is not confined to newspapers and
periodicals. . . . The press in its historic connotation comprehends every sort of publication which affords a vehicle of
information and opinion"). The majority's admonition that
"'[t]he publisher of a newspaper has no special immunity
from the application of general laws,"' ante, at 670, and its

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
BLACKMUN,

J., dissenting

501 U. S.

reliance on the cases that support that principle, are therefore misplaced.

In Branzburg, for example, this Court found it significant
that "these cases involve no intrusions upon speech or assembly, no ... restriction on what the press may publish, and no

express or implied command that the press publish what it
prefers to withhold. . . . [N]o penalty, civil or criminal, related to the content of published material is at issue here."

408 U. S., at 681. Indeed, "[tlhe sole issue before us" in
Branzburg was "the obligation of reporters to respond to
grand jury subpoenas as other citizens do and to answer
questions relevant to an investigation into the commission of
crime."
Id., at 682.
See also Associated Press v. NLRB,

301 U. S. 103, 133 (1937); Associated Press v. United States,
326 U. S. 1, 20, n. 18 (1945); Citizen Publishing Co. v.
United States, 394 U. S. 131, 139 (1969).
In short, these
cases did not involve the imposition of liability based upon the
content of speech.'
Contrary to the majority, I regard our decision in Hustler
Magazine, Inc. v. Falwell, 485 U. S. 46 (1988), to be precisely on point. There, we found that the use of a claim of
intentional infliction of emotional distress to impose liability

for the publication of a satirical critique violated the First

1The only arguable exception is Zacchini v. Scripps-HowardBroadcasting Co., 433 U. S. 562 (1977). In Zacchini, a performer sued a news organization for appropriation of his "right to the publicity value of his performance," id., at 565, after it broadcast the entirety of his act on local
television. This Court held that the First Amendment did not bar the
suit. We made clear, however, that our holding did not extend to the reporting of information about an event of public interest. We explained:
"If ... respondent had merely reported that petitioner was performing at
the fair and described or commented on his act, with or without showing
his picture on television, we would have a very different case." Id., at
569. Thus, Zacchini cannot support the majority's conclusion that "a law
of general applicability," ante, at 670, may not violate the First Amendment when employed to penalize the dissemination of truthful information
or the expression of opinion.

COHEN v. COWLES MEDIA CO.
663

BLACKMUN,

J., dissenting

Amendment. There was no doubt that Virginia's tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress was "a law of general applicability" unrelated to the suppression of speech.2
Nonetheless, a unanimous Court found that, when used to
penalize the expression of opinion, the law was subject to the
strictures of the First Amendment. In applying that principle, we concluded, id., at 56, that "public figures and public
officials may not recover for the tort of intentional infliction
of emotional distress by reason of publications such as the one
here at issue without showing in addition that the publication
contains a false statement of fact which was made with 'actual
malice,"' as defined by New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376
U. S. 254 (1964). In so doing, we rejected the argument
that Virginia's interest in protecting its citizens from emotional distress was sufficient to remove from First Amendment protection a "patently offensive" expression of opinion.
485 U. S., at 50.3
As in Hustler, the operation of Minnesota's doctrine of
promissory estoppel in this case cannot be said to have a
merely "incidental" burden on speech; the publication of important political speech is the claimed violation. Thus, as in
Hustler, the law may not be enforced to punish the expres2The

Virginia cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional dis-

tress at issue in Hustler provided for recovery where a plaintiff could demonstrate "that the defendant's conduct (1) is intentional or reckless; (2) offends generally accepted standards of decency or morality; (3) is causally
connected with the plaintiff's emotional distress; and (4) caused emotional
distress that was severe." 485'U. S., at 50, n. 3.
' The majority attempts to distinguish Hustler on the ground that there
the plaintiff sought damages for injury to his state of mind whereas the petitioner here sought damages "for a breach of a promise that caused him to
lose his job and lowered his earning capacity." Ante, at 671. I perceive
no meaningful distinction between a statute that penalizes published
speech in order to protect the individual's psychological well being or
reputational interest and one that exacts the same penalty in order to compensate the loss of employment or earning potential. Certainly, our decision in Hustler recognized no such distinction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
SOUTER,

J., dissenting

501 U. S.

sion of truthful information or opinion.4

In the instant case,
it is undisputed that the publication at issue was true.
To the extent that truthful speech may ever be sanctioned
consistent with the First Amendment, it must be in furtherance of a state interest "of the highest order." Smith, 443
U. S., at 103. Because the Minnesota Supreme Court's
opinion makes clear that the State's interest in enforcing its
promissory estoppel doctrine in this case was far from compelling, see 457 N. W. 2d, at 204-205, I would affirm that
court's decision.
I respectfully dissent.
JUSTICE SOUTER, with whom JUSTICE MARSHALL, JUSTICE BLACKMUN, and JUSTICE O'CONNOR join, dissenting.

I agree with JUSTICE BLACKMUN that this case does not
fall within the line of authority holding the press to laws of
general applicability where commercial activities and rela'The majority argues that, unlike the criminal sanctions we considered
in Smith v. Daily Mail Publishing Co., 443 U. S. 97 (1979), the liability at
issue here will not "punish" respondents in the strict sense of that word.
Ante, at 670. While this may be true, we have long held that the imposition of civil liability based on protected expression constitutes "punishment" of speech for First Amendment purposes. See, e. g., Pittsburgh
Press Co. v. Pittsburgh Comm'n on Human Relations, 413 U. S. 376, 386
(1973) ("In the context of a libelous advertisement ... this Court has held
that the First Amendment does not shield a newspaper from punishment
for libel when with actual malice it publishes a falsely defamatory advertisement") (emphasis added), citing New York Times Co. v. Sullivan,
376 U. S. 254, 279-280 (1964); Gertz v. Robert Welch, Inc., 418 U. S. 323,
340 (1974) ("[Piunishmentof error runs the risk of inducing a cautious and
restrictive exercise of the constitutionally guaranteed freedoms of speech
and press") (emphasis added). Cf. New York Times Co., 376 U. S., at 297
(Black, J., concurring) ("To punish the exercise of this right to discuss public affairs or to penalize it through libel judgments is to abridge or shut off
discussion of the very kind most needed") (emphasis added).
Though they be civil, the sanctions we review in this case are no more
justifiable as "a cost of acquiring newsworthy material," ante, at 670, than
were the libel damages at issue in New York Times Co., a permissible cost
of disseminating newsworthy material.

COHEN v. COWLES MEDIA CO.
663

SOUTER,

J., dissenting

tionships, not the content of publication, are at issue. See
ante, at 674. Even such general laws as do entail effects on
the content of speech, like the one in question, may of course
be found constitutional, but only, as Justice Harlan observed,
"when [such effects] have been found justified by subordinating valid governmental interests, a prerequisite to
constitutionality which has necessarily involved a weighing of the governmental interest involved. . . . Whenever, in such a context, these constitutional protections
are asserted against the exercise of valid governmental
powers a reconciliation must be effected, and that perforce requires an appropriate weighing of the respective
interests involved." Konigsberg v. State Bar of California, 366 U. S. 36, 51 (1961).
Thus, "[tlhere is nothing talismanic about neutral laws of
general applicability," Employment Div., Dept. of Human
Resources of Ore. v. Smith, 494 U. S. 872, 901 (1990) (O'CONNOR, J., concurring in judgment), for such laws may restrict
First Amendment rights just as effectively as those directed
specifically at speech itself. Because I do not believe the
fact of general applicability to be dispositive, I find it necessary to articulate, measure, and compare the competing interests involved in any given, case to determine the legitimacy of burdening constitutional interests, and such has been
the Court's recent practice in publication cases. See Hustler
Magazine, Inc. v. Falwell, 485 U. S. 46 (1988); Zacchini v.
Scripps-HowardBroadcasting Co., 433 U. S. 562 (1977).
Nor can I accept the majority's position that we may dispense with balancing because the burden on publication is in
a sense "self-imposed" by the newspaper's voluntary promise
of confidentiality. See ante, at 671. This suggests both the
possibility of waiver, the requirements for which have not
been met here, see, e. g., Curtis Publishing Co. v. Butts, 388
U. S. 130, 145 (1967), as well as a conception of First Amendment rights as those of the speaker alone, with a value that
may be measured without reference to the importance of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
SOUTER,

J., dissenting

501 U. S.

information to public discourse. But freedom of the press is
ultimately founded on the value of enhancing such discourse
for the sake of a citizenry better informed and thus more prudently self-governed. "IT]he First Amendment goes beyond
protection of the press and the self-expression of individuals
to prohibit government from limiting the stock of information
from which members of the public may draw." First Nat.
Bank of Boston v. Bellotti, 435 U. S. 765, 783 (1978). In this
context, "'[i]t is the right of the [public], not the right
of the [media], which is paramount,"' CBS, Inc. v. FCC, 453
U. S. 367, 395 (1981) (emphasis omitted) (quoting Red Lion
Broadcasting Co. v. FCC, 395 U. S. 367, 390 (1969)), for
"[w]ithout the information provided by the press most of us
and many of our representatives would be unable to vote
intelligently or to register opinions on the administration of
government generally," Cox Broadcasting Corp. v. Cohn,
420 U. S. 469, 492 (1975); cf. Richmond Newspapers, Inc. v.
Virginia, 448 U. S. 555, 573 (1980); New York Times Co. v.
Sullivan, 376 U. S. 254, 278-279 (1964).
The importance of this public interest is integral to the balance that should be struck in this case. There can be no
doubt that the fact of Cohen's identity expanded the universe
of information relevant to the choice faced by Minnesota voters in that State's 1982 gubernatorial election, the publication
of which was thus of the sort quintessentially subject to strict
First Amendment protection. See, e. g., Eu v. San Francisco Cty. Democratic Central Comm., 489 U. S. 214, 223
(1989). The propriety of his leak to respondents could be
taken to reflect on his character, which in turn could be taken
to reflect on the character of the candidate who had retained
him as an adviser. An election could turn on just such a factor; if it should, I am ready to assume that it would be to the
greater public good, at least over the long run.
This is not to say that the breach of such a promise of confidentiality could never give rise to liability. One can conceive of situations in which the injured party is a private indi-

COHEN v. COWLES MEDIA CO.
663

SOUTER,

679

J., dissenting

vidual, whose identity is of less public concern than that of
petitioner; liability there might not be constitutionally prohibited. Nor do I mean to imply that the circumstances of
acquisition are irrelevant to the balance, see, e. g., Florida
Star v. B. J. F., 491 U. S. 524, 534-535, and n. 8 (1989), although they may go only to what balances against, and not to
diminish, the First Amendment value of any particular piece
of information.
Because I believe the State's interest in enforcing a newspaper's promise of confidentiality insufficient to outweigh the
interest in unfettered publication of the information revealed
in this case, I respectfully dissent.

