PERLMAN i. UNITED STATES.
3.

Syllabus.

suggestion made by the Government. But despite this
conclusion, which we regretfully reach, -we see no useful
purpose to-be subserved by granting the motion to strike,
On the contrary, we think the passages on their face are
so obviously intemperate and so patently unwarranted
that if, as a result of permitting the passages to remain
on the files, they should come under future observation,
they would but serve to indicate to what intemperance
of statement an absence of self-restraint or forgetfulness
of decorum will lead, and would therefore admonish of
the duty.to be sedulous to obey and respect the limitations
which an adhesion to them.must exact.

Affrmed.

PERLMAN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM AND ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE
UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW'
YORK.
No. 752. Argued April 18, 1918.-Decided May 6, 1918.
An order of the District Court allowing the District Attorney's application for the custody of documentary and other exhibits, to be used
in criminal proceedings against a witness in a private suit in which
they were used and impounded, and overruling the witness' objection
based on grounds of constitutional privilege and his prayer to have
them restored-to him as his property, is a final order, and the right
of the objecting party to appeal therefrom is unaffected by his lack
of interest in the suit in which the exhibits were impounded.
One who voluntarily and to subserve his own interest-has produced
papers, models, etc., owned by him, as part of his testimony in an
equity suit, in which they are impounded as exhibits, is not ubjected
to an unreasonable seizure, or made to bear witness against himself,
within the meaning of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments, by the
delivery of such exhibits to the District Attorney and their use as

=

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

"

247 U. S.

evidence in a prosecution of such owner for perjury alleged to have
been committed in his testimony.
244 Fed. Rep. 304, affirmed.

APPPA.i; and error to review an order denying petition of
Perlman to restrain and enjoin the United States attorney
for the Southern District of New York from taking into*
his possession or custody certain exhibits which had been
impounded and deposited by order of the district court
for that district with the clerk of the court.
In support of the relief prayed Perlmah alleges the following facts, which we state narratively: He is 'the inventor
device known in' the market as a demountable
rim, ofitsa purpose
being to mount and carry an inflated
pneumatic tire upoff a iaetallic rim, which contains -locking devices for attachment to the wheels of automobiles
and other vehicles.
He brought suit for infringement against the Standard
Welding Company, and, issue being joined, there was a
judgment.for him against the company, which was affirmed
by the.Court of Appeals. 231 Fed..Rep. 453; Id..734. At
the .trial of the cause certain exhibits hereinafter r6ferred
to were .offered by him which were and are his personal
property and have been continuously in his possession or
in the possession of those who represent him."
Subsequently he, with others, formed a corporation
Imown'as the Perlman Rim Corporation, which, among
other things, undertook to market the patented device.
In Mdrch, -1916, he assigned the letters patent to:the
.corporation;but not the exhibits above mentioned.
*In February, 1917, the corporation, being advised that
the Firestone Tire & Rubber Company was infringing
the device, brought suit against th6 company for infringepaent, which came up for trial before.Judge Hand. After
final submission of thq case, the plaintiff, the Perlman Rima
Corporation, througli its counsel-, asked leave .to discontinue the actiont and for its dismissal without prejudice.

PERLMAN r. UNITED STATES:.
7.

Statement of the Case.

The motion was granted, but the condition was imposed
that the evidence" be perpetuated and th6 exhibits inpounded in the custody of the clerk, to be kept under seal
subject to the order of the court.' The exhibits were part
of those heretofore referred to and used on the trial before
Judge Hunt.
July 17, 1917; Perlman ascertained from' the attorney
for the corporation that the attorney had been served
with a copy of-an order signed by Judge Hand directing
him, the attorney for the -corporation, and the attorney
for the Firestone Company to appear and show cause why
the United States attoruey should not have and be given
possession of the exhibits, as-the United States attorney
had -instituted proceedings against Perlman which involved. the question whether he had committed an offense
against the United -States. The attorney for the corporation alo -told Perlnan that he had not opposed the motion
'and that the attorney for the Firestone Company had not
appeared; that, therefore,-the order would be entered ps a
matterof course.
The application of the United States attorney was based
"This cause having come on to be heard and testimony having been
taken by both parties, now, on plantiff's motion, and after hearing de-.
fendant's counsel in opposition thereto, it is
"Ordered, that the bill of complaint herein be and it hereby is dis- missed without prejudice with costs to defendant to be taxed; and as
a condition of such dismissal and in accoidanpe with plaintiff's stipulatioii made in open court., it is
"Further ordered, that the ir inutc;. of the trial be filed and that all
the exhibits offered by either party be impounded and deposited with
the clerk of this court under seal to be opened only by order of court
on notice to each of the parties hereto; and
"That, all testimony taken up to the present time in this cause (as
well as the exhibits) shall stand as testimony which may be read and'
used in any cause between the parties hereto or between any other
parties who wouild be privies if judgment were entered herein, including cases in which the vendees and users of the rims made or sold
by the defendant or such other parties are sued."

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

247 U. S.

on an affidavit of one Harol Harper, an assistant. to the
United States attorney, which charged, among other
things, that the exhibits were material and necessary in
aninvestigation pending before the grand jury and for
preparation for trial in case an indictment should be found.
The exhibits are his, Perlman's, personal property and
the use of them by the grand jury and the United States
attorney as contemplated would be in violation of his
rights and unwarranted in law;. they were impounded in
a suit-to which he was not a party, but a witness, and he
had not consented thereto or been heard by counsel.
He prayed for-an order upon all the parties concerned
to show cause why an order should not be made directing
the clerk to deliver to him, Perlman, the exhibits and that
the United States attorney be restrained from using them,
averring that, unless such stay were granted, his right"
would be seriously invaded and 1 would be compelled
to furnish evidence against himself in a criminal proceeding, all without due process of law.
A schedule of the exhibits is attached to the petition
and shows them to be not only' matters in writing, such
as bills, letters and checks, but models-of wheels, rimcarying tires, and of other implements and tools, -and
the patent upon which the suit was brought. I .
Before the filing of the petition an order had been

granted upon motion of the United States attorney directing the clerk to produce the exhibits before the grand jury.
'The order further directed that the United States attorney
have access to the exhibits at all reasonable times and
ftt if an indictment should be found against Perlman
ti. " United States attorney -might have such temporary
ciiody of the exhibits or -ny part thereof as might be
necessary for the purpose, -under such regulations as the
clerk-might make.
Upon the filing "of Perlman's petition an order was
granted restraining the use of the exhibits until the hear-

. PERLMAN v. UNITED STATES.
7.

tatement of the uase.

ing of the petition. Subsequently, upon the hearing, and
Perlman having withdrawn so much of his application
as related to the return of the'exhibits to .him, te court,
Judge Manton sitting, denied the relief prayed for against
the use of the exhibits by the United States attorney or
their presentation to the United States grand jury.
The order recited that it was made upon the order of
Judge Hand, the petition of Perlman and the affidavit
of Harp6r.
The affidavit gives some details that Perlman's petition
does not. It states that Perlman testified that he had been
president of the Perlman Rim Corporation since its formation, and, further, that he gave testimony in respect to
the alleged invention which was the subject of the patent,
and that, in'the course of his testimony, he produced and
offered in evidence on the part of the corporation the exhibits. And the affidavit states that the impounding of
the exhibits was part of the decree in the suit against the/
Firestone Company and that Perlman was present at the
time and during practically all of the proceedings of the
trial and that the minutes of the court show no protest by
him.
It further states that certain of the alleged perjuries
committed by Perlman referred directly to the exhibits,
as to the time and manner of their, production or alteration; and that certain other statements alleged to have
been perjured were made by him and supported by the
exhibits. And further that in the course of his cross-examination Perlman gave certain evidence with regard to
events in England in the year 1895 which did not directly
concern the matter of invention but went to the credibility of the witness as such, and 'inrespect to those statements an indictment had been found against Perlman -by
the grand jury attending the court for the July, 1917,
term.

The sources of iniormation of Harper as to the above

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 IT.S.

matterg not wiflin his own kno-vledge were stated to be
the official stenographic report of the trial, the records of
the clerk's office, and statements made to him by persons
who had been present in the court room during the trial
and were' cognizant of the proceedings.
Mr. Louis Marshall, with whom Mr. A. A. Silberberg
was on the briefs, for appellant and plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fitts for the United

States.
MR.JU'TICE MCKBNNA, after stating the case as above,
delivered the.opinion of the court.
The United States makes a motion to dismiss on the
following grounds:
"1. Appellant has no interest in the subject matter of
and is not a party to the equity suit out of which the
appeal arises;
"2. The order of the District Court if considered as a
part of the criminal proceeding is not final, but merely
interlocutory and therefore not reviewable by this court."
We think the motion should be overruled. Referring
to the impounding order it will be seen that the Governmienft'was not one of those for whom the use of the ex-"
hibits was-reserved. It, therefore, had no rights under
the order. Its rights-or, it is more accurate to say,
its powers-were of different origin, were governmental,
fnd would, affect Perlman by their exercise.- We think,
therefore, that he could'intervene to oppose and urge in
opposition property and constitutional rights.and their
sanctions'. His petition was iA effect independent and
did not lose its character by being entitled in the equity

suit.
The'second contention of the Goyernment is somewhat

PERLMAN L,.UNITED STATES.
7.

Opinion of the Court.

strange, that is, that the order granted upon it solicitation
was not final as to Perlman but interlocutory in a proceeding not yet brought and depending upon it to be
brought. In other words, that Perlman was powerless to
avert the mischief of the order but must accept its incidence and seek a remedy at some other time and in some
other way. We are unable to concur.
On the merits the case is rather unique. Perlman contends that the proposed use by the United States before'
the grand jury of the exhibits as a basis for an indictment
against him constitutes an unreasonable seizure and makes
of him a compulsory witness against himself, in violation
of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments. In other words,
he claims the same sanctuary for the exhibits in the hands
of the court as though they were in his hands and had never
been published or delivered to the world. For this he invokes certain principles and cases. The principles are
well established. They are paraphrases of the Constitution, giving it: in cases a more precise specialization.
They preclude, . of course, compulsion, either upon the
individual or, under some circumstances, his property;
nor is it a condition or part of compulsion that there be
an actual entry upon premises, an actual search and
seizure. The principles preclude as well the extortion of
testimony or detrimental inferences from silence or refusals to testify.
The incidences of the cases in which the principles were
declared do not help Pernman. in all of them there was
force or threats or trespass upon property, some invasion
of privacy or governmental extortion. In Boyd v. United
States, 116 U. S. 616, there was an order of the court requiring the production of private books, invoices "and papers,
the alternative of refusal being that their character as asserted by counsel should be taken as confessed. In Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, there was an effort to compel a witness to disclose circumstances which might be

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

evidence against him of the commission of an offense or
might connect him with'it. Hate v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43,
'is of like illustration.,' In United States v. Wong Quong
Wong, 94 Fed. Rep. 832, privatd letters were opened. In
United States v. Mills, 185 Fed. Rep. 318, there was a
general seizure of all of the defendant's business records
by .the United States niarshal when executing a warrant
of arrest. In United States v. Abrams, 230 Fed. Rep. 313,
business papers were delivered to an officer under threats
or promises of benefit. In Weeks v. United States,.232
U. S. 383, there was an invasion of premises without a
search Warrant and the carrying away of certain letters and
envelopes. The latter case is especially relied on by counsel, and it is definite as to principles and as to seizures the
Constitution forbids and those it peimits. The distinctions are made clear aiid the discussion leaves nothing
to be added of either principles or their illustration. But
it is Aot like. the case at bar. In it there was an invasion
of the defendant's privacy, a taking from his immediate
and persoial possession. In the case at bar there was a
voluntary exposition of the articles, for use as evidence
in-the District Court and in the Circuit Court of Appeals
(231 Fed. Rep. 453 and 734), that judicial action should
be based upon them, action prayed ior by him against
another. And. they served his purpose; they prevailed as
proof and secured a judgment for him.
. There was again exposition of them and use as evidence
in'Per7man Rim Co.. v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co.
In that case, it is true, Perlman was not nominally a party,.
but he was interested in the suit and its success. His
pat6nt depended upon it. They were part of his evidence,
necessary suliports and' illustrations of it, as much, therefore, a part of his testimony as his spoken word, "asmuch
a part of the records of the court as the stenographer's
notes. Their iangibility did not change their character
'as evidence. Indeed, it gave emphasis to the notes and

PERLMAN v. UNITED STATES..
7.

Opinion of the Court.

a more pertinent strength, and was deemed necessary to
their completeness and understanding. As is usual in a
patent case, there was exposition and illustration by exhibits, And their production was voluntary, no form of
constraint or compulsion or extortion was put upon him,
and that some one of them must exist is the test of immunity' Holt v. United States, 218 U. S. 245, 252. -Therefore,
as said by counsel for the Government, "Having let go
the exhibits, so that they have become a part of the
judicial records, he is not now in position to suppress the
story they telL"
But Perlman insists that he owned the exhibits and
appears to contend that his ownership 6xempted them
from any use by the Government without his consent. The
extent of the insistence is rather elusive of measurement.
It seems to be that the owner of property must be considered as having a constructive possession of it wherer
it be and in whosesoever hands it be, and it is always,
therefore, in a kind of asylum of constitutional privilege.
And to be of avail the contention must be pushed to this
extreme. It is opposed, however, by all the cited cases.
They, as we have said, make the criterion of immunity
not the ownership of property but the "physical or moral
compulsion" exerted.
As. we have seen, Perlman delivered the exhibits to
publicity, made them the means of advantage. They,
for the purposes of justice, were taken from his possession
and volitiodi into the control and custody of the court.
Upon formal motion they were released for the use of the
Government, a use as meritorious in consideration as that
which determined the ruling in Ex parte Uppercu, 239
U. S. 435.
Order affirmed.

