PHILIPPINE SUGAR &c. CO. v. PHIL. ISLANDS. 385
Syllabus.

372.

law prescribes for employers in respect of their employees
on shore.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirned.
MR. JUSTICE HILmES concurs in the-result.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, MR. JUSTICE BPA NDEIs and MR.
JUSTICE CLARxE dissent.

PHILIPPINE SUGAR ESTATES DEVELOPMENT
COMPANY, LIMITED, v. GOVERNMENT OF THE
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 189.

Argied March 13, 1918.-Decided June 3, 1918.

Where, owing.to a mutual mistake, a written contract fails to express
the intention of the parties, it may be reformed to express their true
intention, although the mistake was one of law respecting its inter-

pretation and construction.
Reformation will be granted only where the evidence of mistake is clear
and satisfactory.
Relief in such cases may be obtained by a defendant under Philippine Code of Civil Procedure, § 285, upon appropriate pleadings,
without resort to an independent suit for reformation of the contract.
In this case- it is established by proof of the clearest and most satisfactory character that certain rails and sugar-mill machinery were
intended not to go with a sale and conveyance of land to the Philippine Government, and that tfie failure of the written contract and
deed to except them was due to a mutual mistake of law.
The court cannot accept a construction placed upon a Philippine statute by the Supreme Court of the Islands, when it is clearly erroneous.
Upon an appeal from a decree of the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands erroneously reversing the trial court solely on a question of

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion .of the Court.

247 U. S.

law, this court, to dispose finally of the case, may deide the facts,
when'all evidence proffered was admitted and is in the record, and
when the appellant in the cmurt below sought to review the trial
court's findings, under § 497, pa, 2, of th6 Philippine Code of Civil
Procedure.
Where, in an action at law on a conitract, the answer set up was, in
effect, a bill in equity, seeking reformation and incidentally to enjoin the action at law, the proceeding was conyerted -into an .equitable one, and hence can lie review~d only by appeal and not by writ
of error:
30 Phil. Rep. 27, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Antonio M. oPisso for plaintiff in error and appel-

lant.
Mr. Edward S. Bailey, with whom Mr. Samuel T. Ansell
was on the brief, for defendant in error and appellee.

MR. JusTIcE BR'ANEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
When Spain ceded the Philippine Islands to the United
States large tracts of agricultural lands were owned by
the great religious orders.. For political reasons it was
deemed advisable that our Government should acquire
the Friar lands and sell them to tenants in small holdings
on easy terms. Lengthy negotiations conducted to that
end- by the Civil Governor were concluded in 1903.
M ost of the lands owned by the Dominicans, amounting
to 60,461 hectares, had been conveyed to the Philippine
Sugar Estates Development Company, Limited; and with
that corporation a contract of sale and purchase was
executed by the Govetnment of the Philippine Islands
under date of December 22, 1903. The agreement covered eight haciendas including that of Calamba in the

PHILIPPINE SUGAR &c. CO. r. PHIL. ISLANDS. 387
385.

Opinion of the Court.

province of Laguna, said to contain 16,424 hectares and
14 ares. Owing to delays incident to resurveys and perfecting of titles, the deed of the Calamba estate was not
delivered until October, 1905, when the purchase price,
1,385,443.29 pesos, was paid and possession taken by the
grantee. 1 Later the Philippine Government learned that
the grantor had removed certain sugar mil machinery
and the rails of a light railroad which had formerly been
upon the estate. The contract made no mention of
sugar mills, machinery, or railroad; but it contained,
after the description of the estates and specified properties to be conveyed, the words, "and all otherlimprovements"; and these words were also in the deed. The
Government, claiming that the machinery and railroad
were covered by this and other clauses and passed as
part of the realty, brought suit, in 1906, against the
Company 2 in the Court of First Instance of Manila for
their value, alleged to be 50,000 pesos.
The Code of Civil Procedure of the Philippine Islands,
§ 285, permits to be introduced, in case of written contracts, "evidence of the terms of agreement other than
the contents of the writing,' "where a mistake or imperfection of the writing, or its failure to express the true
intent and agreement of the parties, is put in issue by the
pleadings." I The defence was rested, under appropriate
U. S. Philippine Commission Reports (1901), vol. 2, Part 1,p. 24;
(1902), Part 1, p. 24; (1903), Part 1, pp. 38-44; (1904), Part 1, p. 16;
Part 2, p. 477; (1905), Part 1, p. 65; (1906), Part 1, p. 58: A hectare
equals 2.471 acres; two pesos equal one dollar, gold.
2The Dominican Order of Friars was joined in the complaint as a
party defendaht; but it was not mentioned in the judgments entered
in either of the lower courts; and it did not become a party to the proceedings in this court.
"Written Agreement presned to Contain all the Terms of the Agreement. 'When the terms of an agreement have been reduced to writing
by the parties, it is to be considered as containing all those terms, and
therefore there can be, between the parties and their representatives

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Opinion.of the Court.

247 U. S.

,pleadings, on the ground, among others, that the contracting parties understood that the sugar mills and machinery and the railroad were not to be included as-a pait
of the real estate and that they did not come under any of
the terms used in the contract or the deed, and that, for
this reason, the instrument did not express the intention
and actual agreement of the parties. The trial court
held this defence good in law and sustained by the evidence;
.and entered judgment for the defendant. The Supreme
Court of the Philippine Islands reversed the judgment of,
the trial court solely on the ground that, where parties to a,
written contract have'deliberately adopted the language
therein used, a court of equity will not reform the instrument because the parties were "mistaken as to its
legal. interpretation and effect, nor will such a mistake
be recognized as any defense to a suit upon the contract
or instrument"; and that relief against such a mistake
cannot be afforded under § 285 of the Code. Upon the
evidence which had been introduced below the Supreme
Court also entered a judgment of 50,000 pesos for the
Government. (30 Phil. Rep. 27.) The case comes hero
under § 248 of the Judicial Code.
The case is brought here both by writ of error and by
appeal. The complaint set forth a cause of action at
law on the contract. The answer was, in effect, a bill in
equity for reformation and incidentally to enjoin the
or successom in interest, no evidence of the terms of agreement other

than the contents of the writing, except in the following cases:
" (1) Where a mistake or imperfection of the writing, or its failure
to express the true intent and agreement of the parties, is put in issue
- ;
by the pleadings;
" (2) Where the validity of the agreement is the fact in dispute. But
this section does not exclude other evidence of the circumstances under
which the agreement was made, or to which it relates, or to explain an
intrinsic ambiguity, or to establish its illegality or fraud. The term
'%greement ' includes deeds and instruments conveying real estate, and
wills as well as contracts between parties."

PHILIPPINE SUGAR &c. CO. v. PHIL. ISLANDS. 389
385.

Opinion of the Court.

action at law. Compare Bradbury v. Higginson, 167
California, 553. The proceeding became. thus an equitable
one. See Surget v. Lapie '8How. 48, 64-65; Clark v.
*Mosher, 107 N. Y. 118; Yu1_mr v. Johnson, 29 Ky. Law
Rep. 543. The proper method of review by this court is,
therefore, by appeal; and th6 writ of error is dismissed.
Gsell v. Insular Qllector of C.,stoms, 239 U. S. 93; Montelibano y Ramos v. La Con qania General de Tabacos de
Filipinas,241 U. S. 455, 461.
It is well .settled that courts of equity will reform a
written contract where, owing to mutual mistake, the
language used therein did not fully or accurately express
the agreement and intention of the parties. The fact
that interpretation or construction of a contract presents
a question of law and that, therefore, the mistake was
one of law is not a bar to granting relief. Snell v. Insurance Co., 98 U. S.85, 88-91; Griswold v. Hazard, 141 U.
S.260, 283-284.1 This rule of equity was adopted in the
Philippine Code without restriction; and the relief is
afforded, under appropriate pleadings, without resort to
an independent suit for reformation of the contract.
The language of § 285 is clearly broad enough to include
relief for such mistakes of law; and the earlier decisions
of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands to which
that court refers in its opinion are not inconsistent with
this conclusion. Some of them are instances of the futile
attempt to vary, supplement, or contradict a written
contract by parol evidence. In none of them was evidence offered under appropriate pleadings with a view to
reforming the instrument. - It is urged that § 285 was
'See also Stockbridge Iron Co. v. Hudson Iron Cd., 107 Mass. 290,
319, 320; Maher v. HiberniaInsurance Co., 67 N. Y. 2&3, 291; Wisconsin Marine & Fire Ins. Co. Bank v. Mann, 100 Wis. 596, 617-620.
2Pastor v. Gaspar, 2 Phil. Rep. 592; -Icaza v. Ortega, 5 Phil. Rep.
166; Sanz v. Lavin Brothers, 6 Phil. Rep. 299; Testagorda v. Comtnanding General, 6 Phil. Rep. 573: Muguruza v. InternalionalBank,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

borrowed from § 1856 of the Code of Civil Procedure of
California; and that the courts of that State deny relief
under circumstances like those here under consideration.
No case sustaining this assertion was cited by counsel
and none has been found by us. Furthermore the provisions of the two sections differ materially; the significant
clause of § 285, namely, "or its failure to express the true
intent and agreement of the parties," is not contained
in §1856 of the California Code. It is also urged 'that,
since the construction of §285 is a matter of purely local
concern, we should not disturb the decision of the Supreme
Court of the Philippine Islands. This court is always
disposed to accept the construction which the highest
court of a territory or possession has placed upon a local
statute. Phoenix Ry. Co. v. Landis, 231 U. S. 578. But
that disposition may not be yielded to, where the'lower
court has clearly erred. Carringtonv. United States, 208
U. S. 1. Hete, the construction adopted was rested upon
a clearly erroneous assumption as to an established rule
of equity. The Supreme Court erred in refusing to consider thi evidence of mutual mistake; -and its judgment
must. be reversed.
. It remains .to consider the further proceedings which
should be taken. The judgment of the trial court was
reversed by the Supreme Court solely on the ground that
the defence of mutual mistake relied upon was not good
in-law"; -but the case had been taken to that court on a
bill of exceptions which contained the whole record in
the trial court, including all the evidence introduced; and
the refusal of the trial judge to grant a new trial on the
ground that the evidence did not justify the findings of
the courts had been duly excepted to. This exception
10 Phil. Rep. 346; DeGuzman v. Balarag, 11 Phil. Rep. 503; United
States v. Macaspac, 12 Phil. Rep. 26; Jose v. Damian, 14 Phil. Rep.
104; Sy Joe Lieng v. Sy Ouia, 16 Phil. Rep. 137; Lozano v. Tan
Suico, 2.3 Phil. Rep. 16.

PHILIPPINE SUGAR &c. CO. v. PHIL. ISLANDS. 391
.385.

Opinion of the Court.

was apparently insisted upon before the Philippine Supreme Court, and the same contention is made by the
Government here. Its purpose was obviously to seek a
review of those findings under § 497, par. 2, of the Code
of Civil Procedure, which provides that where a motion
was made in the trial court for a new trial "upon the
ground that the evidence was insufficient to justify the
decision, and the judge overruled said motion, and due
exception was taken to his overruling the same, the
Supreme Court may review the evidence and make
such findings upon the facts by a preponderance of the
evidence, and render such final judgment, as justice
and equity may require." We might require that the
review of the evidence to which the Government is entitled should be "made by that court. But, as the case
is here on appeal and all proffered evidence was admitted
below and is in the record before us, we may now finally
dispose of the case.
The burden of proof resting upon the appellant cannot
be satisfied by mere preponderance of the evidence. It
is settled that relief by way of reformation will not be
granted, unless the proof of mutual mistake be "of the.
clearest and most satisfactory character." Snell v. Insurance Co., 98 U. S. 85, 89-90; Baltzer v. Raleigh &
Augusta Railroad, 115 U. S. 634, 645; Maxwell Land
Grant Case, 121 U. S. 325, 381; Simmons Creek Coal Co.
v. Doran, 142 U. S. 417, 435; Campbell'v. Northwest Eckington Co., 229 U. S. 561, 584. The evidence introduced
by appellant meets this stringent requirement.
The following, among other, facts were established by
uncontradicted evidence: Prior to XMay, 1903, the sugar
mills had been in part destroyed by revolutionists, and
the mills and machinery had fallen into disrepair. In that
month the Company gave orders to r-eniove the-machinery
and the rails from the hacienda and store them elsewhere.
In October, 1903, the Company contracted to sell all the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

machinery and rails to one Rueda. They were not included in the detailed appraisal of -the property which
the Government caused to be made. 'Before the contract
with the Government was executed all the rails and a
part of the machinery had been removed from the hacienda. In the typewritten draft of this contract with the
Government which its counsel prepared and which was
sutmitted by Governor Taft to the CQmpany's representative for consideration, it was exprissly stated that
"sugar and rice mills and machinery " together with "irrigation., work, dams; tunnels, ditches, and all other improvements thereon" should be included in the "sale and
conveyance." The Company's representative corrected
the draft of agreement by striking- out with a pen the
words, "sugar and rice mills and machineiy." This correction was acquiesced in by the Government's representatives; and in the final draft of the contract which was
.executed December 22, 1903, there was no reference to
sugar mills, machinery, or tramway, although the paragraph, as modified, contained the f6Ulowing explicit and
detailed provision:
"This sale-and conveyance shall include all the dwelling houses, farm houses, warehouses,, camarines and other
bildings, irrigation works, dams, 'tunnels, ditches, and
all other improvements, together with all water and
.other rights and all hereditaments belonging to the Company on every part of the estates hereby agreed to be
conveyed."
The words sugar mills were also included in the draft
of the final deed of conveyance, bit they were stricken
out after a conference betweeh the Company's representative and the Civil Governor, so that the words do
not appear in the final deed of conveyance.
This clear and uhcontradicted testimony as to the
agreement actually made is supported by the production
of. the original draft of the agreement in which the words

PHILIPPINE SUGAR &c., CO, v. PHIL. ISLANDS. 393
385.

Opiniol. of the Court.

"sugar and rice mills and machinery" were stricken out
in ink, and also by producti
from the files of the Executive Bureau of the stenographic report of the inter,view with Governor Wright, above referred to. As
against this.strong evidence the Government can point
only to the fact .that in the deed, the hacienda is first
described as "the description, area and boufidaries"
thereof "appear in the title deeds," then as it appears
from the recent Government surveys; and that in the
description according to the title deeds, the several sugar
mills are named, and following them is the clause, "though
it is believed that these mills were destroyed in part at
least,- by the revolutionists." This recital, itself of ambiguous import, is of no significance. This description
was in no way relied upon by the Supreme Court of the
Philippine' Islands. Their decision was based entirely
upon the alleged inclusion of sugar mills and machinery
in the phrase, "improvements" and accessories." ,As
found by the trial judge, the evidence "shows, without
the slightest doubt, that the parties, on striking out said
words [the sugar mills] from the document, agreed not
to include them in the sale, as demanded by the representative of the vendor, because they were not legally
part of the Hacienda, for the reason that they had already been sold to Enrique Rueda prior to the preliminary
agreement."
The judgment entered in the Supreme Court of the
Philippine Islands is reversed #Dd that entered by the
Court of First Instance of Manila is affirmed.
Reversed.

