OCTOBER- TERM, 1917.Counsel for Petitioners.

247 U. S.

matter very mcli in what form an extraordinitry remedy
is afforded in this case. But as the order may be regarded- A having repudiated jurisdiction of the first count,
mandamus may be adopted to require the District Court
-to pr duce and to give the plaintiff her right to a trial at
common law. See Brown v. Circuit Judge of Kalamazoo
-Cibsnty, 75 Michigan, 274.
Rule absolute.

AlICE STATE LANK ET AL v. HOU1TSTON
PASTURE COMPANY.
-ERTIbRARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAIZ FOR THE
FTH CIRCUIT.

No. 154> Ar~ued January 24, 1918.--Decided 'June 3, 1918.

Upon areviewrby certiorari, the court confines its dscussion to'the
mttr reliedonimprocmigthe writ.
An enclosuir bounded 6:-tliree side&*by a fence and on the fourth by
deep water (Nueces Bay)'will sustain a claim of adverse possession
'- underiRev. Sfats., Texas, Art. 5674, if the other elements-claim

under,registered deeds, payment of taxes, pasturing of cattle and
exclusion of others--are also present.
227 Fed. Rep.- 1015, reversed.
-

-THE case is stated- in the opinion.
Mr. Henry: V. Taft and Mr. Walter P. Napier, with
whom Mr. John,-G Boston- was on the brief for petitioners.

ALICE STATE BANK v. HOUSTON PASTURE CO. 241
240.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Joseph W. Bailey, with whom Mr. William D.
Gordon and Mr. Thomas J. Baten were on the briefs, for
respondent.
Mn. JUSTICE HOwEs delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit, to recover 1280 acres of land in San
Patricio County, Texas. There was a trial by jury in
which the Court directed a verdict for the plaintiff as to
all but certain excepted- portions not in controversy here.
Exceptions were saved by the defendants, the petitioners,
to their not being allowed to go to .the jury on the question whether they had a good defense under the Texas
statutes of limitation, but they were overruled and the
judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
A petition for certiorari was allowed on the suggestion
that there was a manifest conflict between the ruling and
the decision of the state court.
An Act of July 22, 1870, declared that a land certificate for 1280 acres theretofore issued to General Sam
Houston for.military services was a "just claim from its
original date" and authorized the issue of a "patent on
the same, in the name of the heirs of General Sam Houston, deceased." General Houston's will gave discretionary power to his executors to make such disposition of
his personal and real estate as might seem to them best
for the interests of his family. On Juy 22, 1871, Houston's surviving executor made an instrument purporting
to convey the above mentioned land warrant and the in:
terest of Houston's estate and heirs to Coleman, Mathis
and Fulton. On December 30, 1872, the warrant was
located.on land already occupied by those grantees, and
the executor's conveyance to them Was recorded on July
17, 1873. The defendants held deeds under the successors of Coleman, Mathis and Fulton. A patent was issued "to the, heirs of Sam Houston, deceased," on June

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

22, 1874. The plaintiff derived its title from these heirs
under deeds executed in 1914.
A plausible argument can be made that the working
of the Act of 1870 and other pertinent facts and statutes
which we do not recite was to give to the land warrant
the validity and effect that it would have had if lawfully
executed in General Houston's life. But as that is not
the ground upon which the writ of certiorari was asked or
granted we confine our discussion to the matter relied
upon in asking the intervention of this Court. Hubbard
v. Tod, 171 U. S. 474, 494. The defendants alleged that
if -thedeeds did not give them a good title, still they had
held peaceable and adverse possession of the land, using
and enjoying the same, paying taxes thereon, and claiming under deeds duly registered, for more than five years,
and therefore that this suit was too late under Rev.
Stats. Texas, Art. 5674. They contended that the fact
appeared as matter of law,, and, also that at least the jury
might find for them and sufficiently saved the question
as against the view taken by the Court below.
There was evidence that the land in question was part
of a large pasture fenced on the north along the Chiltipin
Creek and on the east and west by fences running from
the creek to deep water in Nueces Bay. There was evidence also that the defendants or their predecessors had
paid the taxes, had, pastured their cattle there, and excluded those of others, and that they claimed under duly
registered deeds. The ground on which the Court ruled
as it did and refused requests of the petitioners was
stated by it to be that the water front on Nueces Bay
was not "such a barrier as would put in motion the statutes of limitation.". This ruling was in deference to Hyde
-. McFaddin, 140 Fed. Rep. 433, (442). But that case
.€as decided on peculiar circumstances, and we do not
think an extensive citation from the Texas decisions
necessary' to show that when the other elements of ad-

