282

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

247 U.S.

UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF
TUE COUNTY OF WELI., STATE OF COLORADO, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT'COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 22. Argued November 15, 1916.-Decided June 3, 1918.
An appeal does not lie to this court from an order of the Circuit Court
of Appeals which merely affirms, on interlocutory appeal, an order
of the District Court'refusing a preliminary injunction, even where
the decisions below were rested on the groind of adequate legal
remedy, which might have been made the basis for a final dismissal
of the bill.
A certiorari may issue under Jud. Code, § 262, to review an interlocutory' judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which, because the
case is of a kind ultimately appealable, is not subject to certiorari
.
under § 240.
Decision of an application for certiorari having been postponed to the
hearing of the appeal which was also taken, and the appeal being
found without jurisdiction,-the certiorari, in this case, is granted and
the record on appeal is treated as the return to the writ.
Equity has.jurisdiction to enjoin ihe collection of illegally discriminatory taxes, where the existence of an. adequate and complete
remedy at law is doubtful.
Where the legal remedy by paying the taxes and suing to recover back
necessitates separate actions against several school districts and
towns, it.will not displace the equitable remedy by injunction in
one suit.
Section 5750, Colorado Rev. Stats.,.1908, provided a plain, adequate
and complete legal remedy in cases of illegal taxes by requiring the
Board of County Commissioners to refund them when paid and by
conferring impliedly on the taxpayer a right to, recover them though
levied for state. school district and town, as well as for county, purposes by one action against the Board; but, in view of later provisions
of Laws, 1913, c. 131, § 5, the effect of which has not been determinea by the state 6upreme court and which might be construed as

UNION PAC. R. R. CO. r.. WELD COUNTY.
282.

283

Oninion of the Court.

prohibiting the Board from refunding without the approval of the
State Tax Commission and as withdrawing the right of action.
against the Board where the Commission disapproves, held, that
the existence of an adequate legal remedy is so uncertain and de-

batable that jurisdiction in a suit for an injunction could not prop-.
erly be declined.
217 Fed. Rep. 540; 222 id. 651, reversed.

THm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. C. C. Dorsey, with whom Mr. N. H. Loomis was
on the briefs, for appellant and petitioner.
Mr. Charles F. Tew for appellees and respondents.
MR. JusTice VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This is a suit by the Union Pacific Railroad Company
to enjoin the collection of a portion of the taxes levied on
its property in Weld County, Colorado, in a particular
year, the gravamen of the complaint being that the company's property was assessed at one-third of its value,
while most of the other property was assessed at one-fifth
and some not at all, and that this operated to place an
undue burden of taxation on the company contrary to the
constitution and laws of the State and to the due process
and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. A portion of the taxes was conceded to be valid
and was paid. The portion in dispute amounts to
$31,127.37. An application for a temporary injunction,
submitted on affidavits and other proofs, was denied by
the District Court, and that interlocutory order was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 217 Fed. Rep. 540;
222 Fed. Rep. 651, both courts being of opinion that relief
by injunction was not admissible because there was a
plain, adequate and complete remedy at law. While that

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court..

247 U. S.

view might have resulted in a final decree dismissing the
bill, such a decree was neither entered in the District
Court nor directed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. In
other words, an amendment of the bill and further proceedings were not precluded.
An appeal to this court from the affirmance of the District Court's interlocutory order was allowed, but the appbal is without statutory sanction and must be dismissed.
Anticipating that this might be so, the company presented
a petition for a writ of certiorari under § 262 of the Judicial Code (see McClellan v. Carland,217 U.S.268; United
States v. Beatty, 232 U. S. 463, 467; Meeker v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 234 U. S. 749), consideration of which was
postponed to the hearing on the appeal. We now grant
the petition and treat the record on the appeal as the return to the writ. See Farrellv. O'Brien, 199 U. S. 89, 101;
White-Smith Music Co. v. Apollo Co., 209 U. S. 1, 8. "
For many years the revenue laws of Colorado have
contained a section' imposing on the board of county
commissioners "in all cases" the duty of refunding to the
taxpayer "without abatement or discount" "any tax, interest or costs, or any portion thereof," which is found to
have been "erroneous or illegal", and by a necessary
implication conferring on him a correlative and substantive right to have the same so refunded. Laws 1870,
p. 123, § 106; 2 Mills Ann. Stats., § 6463; Laws 1902,
c. 3, § 202; Rev. Stats. 1908, § 5750; Price v. Kramer, 4
Colorado, 546, 555; Woodward v. Ellsworth, 4 Colorado,
580, .581 Hallett v. Arapahoe County, 40 Colorado, 308,
318; Bent County v. Atchisonj Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co.,
1-

.

and in all cases where any person shall pay any tax,

interest or costs, br any portion thereof, that shall thereafter be found
to be erroneous or illegal, whether the same be owing to erroneous
assessment, to improper or irregular levying of the tax, or clerical or
other errors or irregularities, the board of county wrmmissioners shall
refund the same without abatement or discount to the taxpayer."

UNION PAC. R. R. CO. v. WELD COUNTY.
282.

285

Opinion of the Court.

52 Colorado, 609, 612-614. If that section is still in force,
unqualified and-unmodified, the conclusion below that in
this case there is a plain, adequate and complete remedy
at law, and therefore that relief by injunction is not admissible, is fully sustained by our decisions. Singer Sewing Machine Co. v. Benedict, 229 U. S. 481, and cases
there cited; Pittsburg, etc., Ry. Co. v. Board of Public
Works, 172 U. S. 32; Arkansas Building & Loan Assn. v.
Madden, 175 U. S. 269; Raymond v. Chicago Unwn Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20, 38; Johnson v. Wells, Fargo & Co.,
239 U. S.234, 243; Greene v. Louisville & InterurbanR. R.
Co., 244 U. S. 499, 519.
That the taxes were levied for state, school district and
town, as well as for county, purposes is not material; for
it is apparent from the Colorado statutes and decisions
that the section covers broadly the whole of the tax that
is found to have been erroneous or illegal, regardless of
the purpose for which it was levied and placed on the
county tax roll. And it also is immaterial that the taxes
were made a lien on the company's real property, for
the lien would be effectually removed by paying them
and suing to recover back the money. Allen v. Pullman's
Palace Car Co., 139 U. S. 658, 661; Arkan.aqa Building
& Loan Assn. v. Madden, supra, 273.
Whether the section named is still in force, unqualified
and unmodified, is the important question. If not in
force, a single action at law would not suffice, for then
it would.be necessary to bring a separate action against
each of several school districts and towns for its part of
the tax. See Raymond v. Chicago Union Traction- Co.,
supra, pp. 39-40. And if the section has been so qualified
and modified that the continued existence of the right
originally conferred on the taxpayer is involved in uncertainty, an essential element of the requisite remedy
-atlaw is wanting; for as this court has said, "It is a settled
principle of equity jurisprudence that, if the remedy at

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the C6urt.

247 U. S.

law be doubtful, a court of equity will not decline cognizance of the suit.
Where equity can give relief
plaintiff ought not to be compelled to speculate upbn the
chance of his obtaining relief at law." Davis v. Wakelee,
156 U. S. 680, 688."
In 1911 Colorado , established a state tbx-'commission
and conferred on it extensive supervisory powers over the
administration of the revenue laws of the State, including
the acts of assessors and boards of county commissioners.
Laws 1911, c. 216. And in 1913, before the present suit
was begun, the State adopted a statute extending the
powers of the conmission and repealing "all acts or parts
of acts in conflict" therewith. Laws 1913, c. 134. The
fifth section of that act says:
"No abatement, rebate or refund of taxes shall be allowed by the county comrissioners, unless a hearing
shall be had thereon and a notice of such hearing and an
opportunity to be present being [be] first given to. the
assessor, and in case any abatement, rebate or refund of
taxes shall be recomnnended by said county commissioners, they shall certify to the Colorado Tax Commission their findings, giving the amount of such abatement, rebate or refund, and their reasons therefor, .and
such abatement, rebate or refund shall become effective
upon the endorsement thereon of the approval of the
Colorado Tax Commission and in case the said Colorado
Tax Commission shall disapprove the recommendations
of the county commissioners, they shall endorse their
disapproval thereon and xeturn it to the county commissioners with a statement of their reasons therefor and
no abatement, rebate or refund of taxes shall be allowed
by the said board of county commissioners if the application is disapproved by the said Colorado Tax Commission."
Counsel differ widely respecting the effect of this statute on the earlier section (§ 5750, Rev. Stats. 1908) and
on the substantive right given by it to have an erroneous

UNION PAC. R. R. CO. r. WELD COUNTY.
282.

287

Opion of the Court.

or illegal tax refunded. On the one hand it is said that
neither the earlier section -nor the right thereby conferred
is in any wise'affected, and that one paying, an erroneous
or illegal tax still may call on the county board to refund
it and, if the application be refused, has a right of action
to compel the board to refund. On the other hand, it is
said that the new statute qualifies and modifies the earlier section by restricting the power and duty of the county
board to refund to instances in which the state tax commission approves the application, and that the correlative
right of the taxpayer under the earlier section-the right
impliedly arising out of the duty imposed on the county
board-is qualified and modified accordingly; in other
words, that the new statute prohibits any refunding of
taxes by the county board save in instances having the
approval of the state commission and that in other instances it operates to withdraw from the taxpayer all right
of action against the county board under the earlier section.
An examination of the new statute shows that the controversy just outlined is not without some real basis and
that its solution is not free from difficulty. The question
is purely one of' state law, and, so far as we are advised,
the Supreme Court of the State has not'passed on or considered it. A ruling by us on the question would neither
settle it for that court nor be binding in an action to recover the tax if paid. In these circumstances it cannot
be said that the company certainly or plainly has an adequate and complete remedy 't law. On the contrary,
the existence of such a remedy is debatable and uncertain.
And this being so, the situation is not one in which cognizance of the present suit properly can be declined.
With the questibn of equitable jurisdictibn out of the
way, the District Court should dispose of the application
for a temporary injunction on the merits and otherwise
proceed with the suit in regular course. The controverted
questions of fact arising on that application have not been

