CHICAGO & ALTON R. R. CO. i. UNITED STATES.

197

Opinion of the Court.

CHICAGO & ALTON RAILROAD COMPANY
UNITED STATES.

v.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAIS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 640. Submitted April 18, 1918.-Decided May 20, 1918.
A switch tender on duty in switch shanties, within a railroad yard,
which are continuously (,)erated day and night, and where by use
of the telephone he receives and delivers orders from the yard
master to engine and train crews pertaining to train movements
tbrough the yard, is within the class described in proviso of ยง 2 of
the Hours of Service Act, whose service is thereby limited to nine
hours in twenty-four.
244 Fed. Rep. 945, affirmed.

THE case is statect in the opinion.
Mr. William L. Patton and Mr. Silas H. Strawn for
petitioner.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Friersonfor the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNoLDs delivered the opinion of
the court.
Following its decisions in Chicago, Rock Island & Pafic
Ry. Co. v. United States, and Chicago & Northwestern By.
Co. v. United States, 226 Fed. Rep. 27, 30; the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed a judgment of the District
Court against petitioner for one hundred dollars, penalty
for violating the Hours of Service Act (c. 2939, 34 Stat.
1415) by permitting a switch tender to remain on duty
more thdn nine hours.

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

Section 2 of the act declares it unlawful for any intestate:carrier by railroad to. require or permit an employee "actually engaged in or connected with the movement of any train" to remain on duty longer than sixteen
consecutive hours: "Provided, That no operator, train
dispatcher, or other employee who by the use of the telegraph or telephone dispatches, reports, transmits, receives, or .delivers. orders pertaining to or affecting train
movements shall be required or permitted to be or remain
on duty for a longer period than nine hours in any twentyfour-hour period in all towers, offices, places, and stations
continuously operated night and day, nor for a longer
period than thirteen hours in all towers, offices, places,
and sbitions operated only during the daytime, except in
case of emergency, when the employees named in this proviso may be permitted to be and remainon duty for four
additional hours in a twenty-four-hour period on not exceeding three days in any week.",
The cause was tried upon an agreed statement of facts,
a jury being waived.
Petitioner's "Yard" at Bloomington, Illinois, is seven
and tha'e fourths miles long. During April., 1015, it
maintained therein three switch shanties located upon
its double track main line, one five hundred feet, another
eleven hundred feet and the third a mile north of its
passenger station.- Trains operated over this portion of
the line are under control of the Yard Master and subject
tb a rule which providesi "all trains will reduce speed on
passing through yard limits and proceed. only after the
way is seen or known to be clear." Each of these shanties
was continuously operated night and day by two men,
alternately on duty therein for twelve hours during every
twenty-four.
"AII of the work regularly and generally required of
said employees, as well as that required on the days
mentioned inisaid declaration, was in connection with the

CHICAGO & ALTON- R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
197.

199

Opinion of the Court.

use of certain switches and telephones, which said work
pertained to and affected the movements of trains of defendant engaged in interstate commerce. Each of said
shanties was equipped with a telephone, all three being
on the same circuit, and connected with the Yard Master's
Office." At the first shanty eight switches were handled;
at the second twelve and two sets of cross-overs; at the
third eight switches for south bound trains and a crossover one. "The work of these employees is to throw
switches, relieve yard, train and engine crews of this work,
and to avoid delays t ) trains moving through the yard.
The telephones are used to permit the Yard Master, who
directs all yard movements, to keep in closer touch with
such movements and to issue instructions or orders to
yard, train or engine crews as to the handling of cars or
trains, or as to any other work that he may desire performed." "The telephones at the three places were installed principally for the purpose of making more con-'
venient communication between the Yard Master's Office
and said shanties."
"All instructions or orders received from the Yard
Master, as above set forth, were always transmitted by
said employees to the engine or trains crews, either verbally
or by hand signals, and in no case were said employees required to write out said instructions or orders for transmission to these crews." "None of the service required
of any of said employees on the days mentioned in said
declaration was Aecessitated by reason of any emergency.
They were the regular assigned hours of said employees,
fixed in that manner by defendant's operating department
which acted under instructions received from its legal
department."
The purpose of the statute is to promote safety in
operating trains by preventing the excessive mental and
physical strain which usually results from remaining too
long at an exacting task. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v.

C,200

OOCTOBER TERM; 1917.,
.opnion ofthe Court.

Izd.u

C

247 U. S.

mmerce Commisson, '221:. U. S., 612, 619 . It

.Must be. -construed-,a4dapplied ,in

vw o that- purpose

-and well tnown-cireumstances :attending -the practical
,:operation: of trains.,
idividuals within, the-ambit of the provso's per- 6The
tihent provisions are marked-bythe nature of service
,performed-an ,opera tr,, ,tran dispatcher, -or other
employee who by the use of the telegraph or telephone
dispatches, reports, transmits, receives,- or-delivers orders
pertaining -to or: affecting. train movements.", And the
railroad is forbidden to permit one performing such service
in "towers offices, places, and, stations continuously operated, night and day" to remain on duty therein longer
.than nine hours in twenty-four. Both the post of -duty
and -character of work are essential elements' If, in due
course of his work, an employee while in any of the locations specified uses the telegraph or telephone for sending or repeiving messages concerning train niovements, he
-may not lawfully remain on duty therein exceeding nine
hours during any twenty-four-hour period, except in case
ofemergency.
-Here, the facte disclose the switch tender on duty for
,twelve consecutive -hours in a shanty continuously operated night andday where, by the use of the telephone, he
-received and delivered, orders pertaining to train movements--not mere .switchingmovements within the yard;
and in such service mental and physical alertness are of
great importance. _By permitting this the railroad violated both language and purpose of the act.

The judgment below.is,
Affirmed.

