OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Respondent.

247 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. BIWABIK MINING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 594.

Argued Mt.rch 4, 5, 6, 1918.-Decided May 20. 1918.

In computing the excise, under the Corporation Tax Act of August 5,
1909, of a mining company operating under a lease terminable at
its option in any year and which grants it the privilege of entering,
and of exploring for, mining and removing ores, in return for a
royalty of so much per ton removed, but which does not convey the
ore in sidtu, that part of the value of the ore disposed of during the
tax year which represents its value as ore in place when the faw'took
effect should not be deducted as depreciation of capital assets. Von
Baumbach v. Sargent Land Co., 242 U. S. 503.
The lease here involved is not to be construed as a conveyance of the
ore in place, although the latter could be measured with substantial
accuracy.
242 Fed. Rep. 9, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Win. C. Herron
was on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. A. C. Dustin for respondent, besides dealing with
the distinction to be drawn between income and a mere
conversion of capital assets existent before the law took
effect, presented the following on the nature of the company's interest:
It is said the Biwabik Mining Company's interest in
this property was obtained under a lease and that as such
lessee it.was not the owner of the ore, and was not, therefore, when it sold the ore converting its capital assets into
money. Whether these contracts of lease effected an
absolute sale of the ore or not is wholly immaterial. It is

UNITED STATES r. BIWABIK MINING CO.

116.

117

Argument for Respondent.

settled that they do create an interest in real estate of a
permanent character which cannot be divested so long
as the contract provisions are complied with. Such a
lease is recognized as property and is frequently sold and
dealt in in the same way as other property. In 1898 the
defendant paid $612,000 for this lease, which was on January 1, 1909, of the agreed value of $3,351,413.81. That
a lessee of a mine has a vested estate is well settled.
. The position of the Government is in effect that the
interest is a mere license to take the ore on payment of
the 30 cents per ton. The distinction between such an
estate as we have here and a mere license is well recognized. Snyder on Mines, vol. II, §§ 1143, 1390, 1394,
1397; Wheeler v. West, 71 California, 126, 129; Boone v.
Stover, 66 Missouri, 430, 434; Barnsdall v. Gas Company,
225 Pa. St. 338; Coltness Iron Co. v. Black, 6 App. Cas.
315, 335; Stoughton's Appeal, 88 Pa. St. 198, 201, 202;
Scranton V'.Phillips, 94 Pa. St. 15, 22; Elky's Appeal, 103
-Pa. St. 300; Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co.
v. Sanderson, 109 Pa. St. 583. ,
The court below distinguishes this case from the Sargent
Land Company Case in this court, pointing out that royalties could very properly be treated as simply rentals so
far as the lessor is concerned; the use of the land for mining
purposes being only one of the many uses to which such
land could be put, the land itself being the chief thing.
But these reasons do not apply to the case of a lessee whose
interest is in the ore, which is susceptible of definite measurement and valuation. This interest is wholly exhausted
and consumed as the ore is extracted.
It should not be overlooked that after giving the
Biwabik Company full credit for the value of its capital
assets thus converted into money there was left a large
net income in 1910 upon which it paid the taxes assessed
by the Government. The construction adopted by the
court simply places the company on a parity with other

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of thWe Court.

247 U. S.

corporations. It gives it the benefit of the realization of
its capital assets as they existed on January 1, 1909.
The action of Congress in allowing first five per cent.
and later in full for the depletion of ores, when it came to
replace the original corporation tax by the Acts of 1913
and 1916, successively, was an acceptance in principle
of the interpretation placed upon the ict of 1909 by the
Treasury Department, and Teflexly shows what that act
itself intended. All the income tax laws are part of a
system and cast light one upon another.
The Sargent Land Company Case, and -Stratton's Independence v. Howbert, 231 U. S. 399, and Stanton v. Baltic
Mining Co., 240 U. S. 103, are not 'n point.
Mr. Robert R. Reed, by leave of court, filed a brief on
behalf of the Investment Bankers' Association of America,
as amicus curio.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court:

This case is here upon a writ of certiorari to the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. It
was instituted by the United States in the District Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Ohio to
recover the sum of $2,653.72 being 1% upon $265,372.08
which, it was claimed, the mining company had wrongfully
omitted from the return of its net income for the year
1910 under the Corporation Tax Act of 1909.
The case was tried upon an agreed statement of facts
which, omitting unnecessary details, were epitomized by
the District Court as follows:
"In the year 1898 the defendant, by assignment of a
lease, acquired a leasehold estate in certain ore producing
properties in the State of Minnesota, from which it mined
ore from that date to and including the year'1910. For
the year 1910 the defendant made a return to the collector

UNITED STATES v. BIWABIK MINING CO.
116.

i9

Opinion of the Court.

of internal revenue of its gross incbme, and from this
amount it deducted, 'to cover realization of unearned increment,' the sum of $265,372.08. The amount of this'
deduction was arrived at by multiplying the number of
3 c., which was
tons of ore mined during the year by 48y
the market value of the ore in place on the premises on the
first day of January, 1909, as estimated by the defendant,
this being the date upon which the returns for taxation
were to commence. It is stipulated that this deduction
was made in good faith upon the claim that it was 'a reasonable allowance for depreciation' of the property of the
defendant for that year.
"In June, 1911, payment was made in accordance with
this return, but the Treasury Department about the month
of October, 1914, after investigating the books and records of the defendant, made the claim that because the
defendant was not the owner in fee of the premises from
which it was mining ore, but was lessee of the same and
was paying a royalty to the fee owners, it was not entitled
to deduct anything for depletion of the ore body on the
premises. Thereupon the defendant was requested to
amend its return for the year 1910'so as to include in its
gross income the amount of said deduction, which it declined to do, and thereupon this suit was instituted to recover the tax upon the amount of this deduction, amounting to $2,653.72.
"Some time prior to the making of the return for the
year 1910 the defendant estimated the tonnage and the
market value of the ore in place upon the premises upon
which it held its lease, which'estimate gave to, the ore in
place a value of 48yc. per ton, exclusive of -royalty.
"The rights of the defendant in the iron ore mined in
the year 1910 were derived from the assignment to it of a
written lease dated April 4, 1898, by the Biwabik Bessemer Company, lessor. By the terms of that lease the
defendant acquired the right for the term of fifty years

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

and three months from the first day of May, 1898, to'explore for, mine out, and remove the merchantable shipping
iron ore which might be found upon the lands described
in the lease upon the payment of a royalty of 30c. for each
ton mined. The expression 'merchantable ore' is defined
as including 'all ores which grade 55% and above in metallic iron regardless of other ingredients.'
"The lessee contracted to mine and remove at least
300,000 tons of ore annually, or to pay to the lessor 30c.
per ton on that amount if it should not be mined, but payments made in any year in excess of royalty on ore actually mined could be credited upon the excess which might
be mined over the minimum requirement in subsequent
years. Any failure to keep or perform any of the covenants or conditions of the lease gave to the lessor the option to take immediate. possession of the premises.
"The lessor in the lease reserved a lien upon any ore
mined and upon all improvements for any unpaid balance
of royalty, and it was also provided in the lease that the
lessee should have the right to terminate the lease on any
first day of January during its term by giving ninety days'
notice of the purpose and desire so to do.
"The defendant, at the time it acquired this lease,
paid to the prior lessee the sum of $612,000, in addition to
contracting to pay the 30c. per ton royalty upon the ore
mined, as has been stated.
"It is stipulated in the agreed statement of facts that
the deposit of ore on the leased premises is of such character that its quality and quantity were capable of determination 'with extraordinary accuracy' by drilling
and shafts, and that the defendant 'by drilling and by
standard recognized methods' had calculated the tonnage
remaining on the land on January 1, 1909, as 6,874,695
tons, all of which could be easily removed within the term
of the lease."
Upon these facts the District Court reached the con-

UNITED STATES v. BIWABIK MINING CO.
116.

121

Opinion of the Court.

clusion that the leases in question were not conveyances
of ore in place, but were grants of the privilege of entering
upon the premises and mining and removing the ore, and,
consequently, that the deduction claimed as being one
" from capital investment could not be allowed. In reaching this conclusion the court cited the opinion of this court
in Straton's Independence v. Howbert, 231 U. S. 399, and
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit (211 Fed. Rep. 1023) affirming the judgment
of the District Court (207 Fed. Rep. 419), which decision
of the Circuit Court of Appeals *was made- after the' return of the answer to the questions propounded by that
court to this court in the Stratton's Independence Case.
Coming to the question as to what allowance should be
made to the mining company by way of deduction from
its income in making return the district judge said:
"The defendant paid $612,000 for the lease under consideration and in addition assumed the payment of the
royalties stipulated for therein. This may properly and
justly be considered a payment in advance of an increased royalty on ore to be mined, and that is precisely
the character which the defendant gave to the payment
when dealing with it in its private accounts, in which the
stipulation shows, 'Ex. H,' that it carried one account,
entitled 'Rate of general ledger or capitalized value
.03885 per ton,' and another account entitled 'Rate of
increment value, January 1, 1909, .44865 per ton.' These
two values added make the 48y4c. per ton which the defendant deducted in making its return.
"Thus in its own bookkeeping the defendant gives its
private opinion as to the requisite reimbursement necessary to maintain its capital investment, and thereby is
made applicable that long-standing rule for the construction of contracts, viz., 'Show me what men have
done under a contract and I will tell you what it means.'
The defendant should not complain if it be held to that

OCTOBER TERM,- 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

construction of this lease and its investment under it which
it adopted for purposes of its own, accounting before the
question of taxation had arisen to call forth ingenuity of
interpretation.
"It results that a decree will be entered allowing instead of the deduction computed on the basis of 48.75
cents per ton of ore mined, the sum of .03885 cents per ton,
and there being no question" of bad faith in the case, the
ends of justice will be served by the payment of interest
at the rate of 6% per annum. from the date when the additional payment found due should have been made."
The District Court thereupon entered judgment:
"And the court finds as conclusions of law from said
facts that the defendant was entitled to deduct for and on
account of the 544,353 tons of iron ore mined by it under
its lease in the year 1910, the sum of .03885 cents per ton
(which amount the parties agree hereby is the cost to
defendant of said ore at the time it acquired the property
in the year 1898, interest, taxes, surveys, and other carrying charges on the said ore up to the time of its removal
from the said mine having been charged annually including the year 1910 into operating expenses), and defendant is not entitled to deduct the 48.75 cents per ton
deducted by it in its return, and there is due from the defendant to the plaintiff the sum of $2,442.23, with interest thereon at 6% from the 30th day of June, 1911, the
date when said sum should have been paid, and the court
assesses the plaintiff's damages herein at $3,140.70, and
judgment is hereby rendered against the defendant in
favor of the plaintiff of the sum of $3,140.70, with interest
from the first day of this term of court."
The company took the case to the Circuit Court of
Appeals upon writ of error, that court reversed the judgment of the District Court, holding that the company was
entitled td the deduction of 48.75 cents per ton upon each
ton of ore mined, as so much depletion of capital assets.

UNITED STATES r. BIWABIK MINING CO. '123
116.

'Opinion of the Court.

(242 Fed. Rep. 9.) This conclusion was reached upon a
construction of the lease in view of the character of the
mining property involved, and largely because of the fact
that the quantity of the ore in place could be estimated
with substantial accuracy. The court held that the selling price of *theore in any one year so far as it represented
the actual value to the mining company of 'the ore in the
ground on January 1, 1909, was not income within the.
meaning of the Corporation Tax Act of 1909. In the
course of its opinion the Circuit Court of Appeals announced the decisive question of law to be: "So far as the
selling price of the ore in 1910 represented its actual value
to the company in the ground on January 1, 1909, was it
income or was it the sale price of capital assets?" And
after dealing with the character of this lease and the
property covered by it, said:
"We think that the lessee of such property and under
such a lease is as much entitled as is the owner of the fee
to treat the value of his interest in the ore in the ground
at the beginning of the tax period as his capital-indeed,
the lessee's right to do so, is, in some respects, the stronger
of the two, as hereafter pointed out. Such a lease, as
applied to this situation, is in every substantial way pro
tanto a purchase."
This view of the character of these, instruments and
their legal .effect differs from that taken by this court in
the Sargent Land Co. Case, 242 U. S. 503, wherein precisely
shnilar iron ore leases were under consideration. In that
case this court reached the conclusion that such leases
were not conveyances of the ore in place, but were grants
of the privilege of entering upon, discovering, and developing and removing the minefals from the land, and
that the lessor's income from such operations was obtained by a corporation shown to be carrying on business,
and upon principles laid down in pr.evious cases in this
court (Stratton's Independence v. Howbert, supra; Stanton

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

v. Baltic Mining Co., 240 U. S. 103) that such income was
subject to taxation under the Corporation Tax Act of
•1909.
In the Sargent Land Co. Case it was pointed out that
the courts of Minnesota, certainly, familiar with the
physical characteristics of the ore deposits involved, had
in a series of cases held these instruments to be leases,
and that the royalties agreed to be paid were rentals in
compensation for the privileges granted the lessee. We
held the conclusion of the Minnesota courts to be war-ranted by reason and authority' (242 U. S. 503, and
cases cited in margin, p. 518.)
The Circuit Court of Appeals distinguished the Sargent
Land Co. Case, and of it said:
"Finally, it is urged that this case is controlled by the
decision of the Supreme Court in the Sargent Land Company Case. The mining leases involved in that case and
in this one seem to be identical in substance, and it is now
said with great plausibility that the ore in the ground and
affected by'such a lease belongs partly to the lessor and
partly to the lessee, and that if the interest of the lessor
is not capital assets no more is the interest of the lessee,
and that if -the receipts of the former are income so must
those of the latter be. We are convinced that the analogy
between the two cases is superficial and not substantial.
In that case the Supreme Court had to determine whether
the royalties received by the lessor were income or were
a depletion of capital. Many considerations led to the
conclusion that they must be treated as income. The
contract was a 'lease,' the receipts were 'royalties,' and
royalties being rentals are inherently income and have
been commonly so considered. All these things seem to
have affected the conclusion of the court, but after all
the dominating thought appears to be that when land is
devoted to mining it is put to only one of those productive-uses of which it is capable, and that the product of

UNITED STATES v. BIWABIK MINING CO.
116.

125

Opinion of the Court.

the use should be called income. The land itself is the
chief thing. After the mining is finished-the land remains
suitable for other uses; and the fact, if it is a fact, that the
minerals are the greater part of its value can not operate to
make the incidental overshadow the principal. These reasons do not apply at all to the -case of the lessee, whose
existing interest, at the beginning of the taxing period,
over and above the royalty which he must pay, amounted
to 53,000,000; his entire interbst was. each year, as far as
.he went, consumed and exhausted forever; he did not have
remaining the principal thing, the land, which he could
put to some other use; the receipt in 1910 of his January
1st, 1909, interest in the ore was not the offshoot and income of his property; it was the transformation and
eating up of the very property and of the whole of it. We
therefore think that applying the principle of the Saigent
Case results in holding that these receipts were from the
sale of capital assets and not from income."
"
We are unable to concur in this view expressed in the
opinion of the Circuit Court of Apleals as to the effect of
the Sargent Land Co. Case. Certainly this court had not
in mind the distinction suggested. In the Sargent Land
Co. Case the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit found that the land including the ore in it was
worth hundreds of thousands of dollars, and without the
right to the ore the land was worth practically nothing..
(219 Fed. Rep. 38.) This finding, as well as facts of eneral knowledge, leaves little room to suppose that this
court made its decision concerning the rights of the lessor
influenced by the fact that the land itself was the chief
thing, and the ownership of it after the exhaustion of the
minerals one of the controlling reasons in reaching the
conclusion announced in that case. The lessee takes from
the property the ore mined, paying for the privilege so
much per ton for each ton removed. He has this right or
privilege under the form of lease here involved so long as

