YORK MFG. CO. v. COLLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

YORK MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. COLLEY
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, FOURTH SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 200. Argued March 18, 1918.-Decided May 20, 1918.
In an interstate contract for sale of a complicated ice-maklng plant,
it was stipulated that the parts should be shipped into the purchasers'
State and the plant there assembled and tested under the supcrvision
of an expert to be sent by the seller. The purchasers agreed to pay
hin a per diem while so engaged and to furnish mechanics for his assistance, and their obligation to accept the plant was made dependent
on the test. The erection took three weeks and the test a week more.
Held, that these provisions as to the services of the expert were
germane to the transaction as an interstate contract and did not involve the doing of local business subjecting the seller to regulations'
of Texas concerning foreign corporations. Browning v. Waycross,
233 U. S. 16, and General Railway Signal Co. v. Virginia, QA6.U. S.
500, distingruished.
172 S. W. Rep. 206, reversed.

THE cse is stated in the opinion.
Mr. N. C. Abbott for plaintiff in errorNo appearance for defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JusTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
The York Manufacturing Company, a Pennsylvania
corporation, sued for the amount due upon a contract for
the purchase -of ice manufacturing machinery and to foreclose a lien upon the same. By answer the defendants
alleged that the plaintiff was a foreign corporation, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

it maintained an office and. transacted business in Texas
-without having obtaiined a permit therefor and was hence
under Texas statutes not authorized to prosecute the suit in
the courts of the State, aAd a dismissal was prayed. In
reply the plaintiff averred that the contract sued on was
interstate commerce and'that the state statute if held to
apply was repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States. At the trial it was shown
without dispute that the contract covered an ice plant
guaranteed to produce' threp tons of ice a day, consisting
of gas compression pumps, a compressor, ammonia condensers, freezing tank and cans, evaporating coils, a; brine
agitator and other machinery .and accessories including
apparatus for utilizing exhaust steam for making distilled water for filling the ice cans. These parts of machinery, it was provided, were to be shipped from Pennsylvania to the point of delivery in Texas and were there
to be erected and connected. This work, it was stipulated, was to be done under the supervision of an engineer to be sent by the York ManufacturingCompany for
whose services a fixed per diem charge of $6.00 was to be

paid by the purchasers ind who should have the assistance
of mechanics furnished by the purchasers, the supervision
to include not only the erection but the submitting of the
machinery to a practical test in operation before, the obligation to finally receive it would arise. It was moreover
undisputed that these provisions were carried 'out, that
about three weeks were consumed in erecting the machinery and about a week in practically testing it, when after
a demonstration of its successful oneration. it was acceptA
by the purchasers.
The trial court, not doubting that the contract of sale
was interstate commerce, nevertheless concluding that the
stipulation as to supervision by an engineer to be sent by
the seller was intrastate commerce and wholly separable
from the interstate transaction, held that the seller by car-

YORK MFG. CO. v,.COLLEY.
21.

Opinion of the Court.

rying out that provision had engaged in local business in
the State and as the permit required by the state statutes
had not been secured, gave .effect to the statutes and dis
missed the suit. The case is here to review the action of
the court below sustaining such conclusion, its judgment
being that of the court of last resort of the State in consequence of the refusal of the Supreme Court of the State to
allow a writ of error.
Referring to a previous ruling (Leschen & Sons Rope
Co. v. Moser, 159 S. W. Rep. 1018) in which it had held
that the performance by a contractor of the duty of supervising the construction of a complex system of tramways
did not constitute a doing of business within the State
because it was relevant to and a part of the main contract for the material from which the road was to be constructed which was interstate commerce, the court below
concluded that that case had been by it mistakenly decided and therefore should be overruled and not applied
in this. The conclusion as to previous error committed,
the court said, was persuasively the result of the ruling in
Browning v. Waycross, 233 U. S. 16, which it treated as
here conclusively determining that the performance of the
contract for the supervision by the engineer was purely
intrastate commerce and sub.ect to be treated as such
although it formed a part of the stipulations of the principal contract of sale conceded to be interstate commerce.
But we are of opinion this decision was erroneouswhether it be examined from the point of view of what'
was assumed to be the controlling effect of the ruling in the
Waycross Case or whether it be tested by the elementary
doctrines as to what constitutes interstate commerce. In
the first place the Waycross Case concerned merely the
right of the City of Waycross to Collect' a charge against
a pemrn who was carrying on a business of erecting lightning rods as the agent of one who had sold the rods in
another State and shipped them to Waycross under an

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1917..I
OpiniOn of the Court.

247 U. S.

agreement after their arrival to erect them. -The case
turned exclusively upon the nature and character of the
business of erecting lightning rods and the relevanftor appropriate relation to interstate commerce of a stipulation
in an interstate contract of sale of such rods providiig for
-their erection when delivery under the sale was made. , As
it -was determined, that the business 'of erecting lightning"
rods bore no relevant or appropriate relation to the contract made for the sale.6f such rods, it was decided that
the contract for the erection of the rods did not lose its
local -character simply because it was made a part of an
interstate: commerce contract for the sale of the rods 'any'
"-morethan would a contract for materials with which to.
build a house cause thebuilding & the house to be a tran•action, of initerstate commerce'and not local business. But
the brpad'distinction which -is established by the stattment just made between- what was decided iithe 1FMy•cosx Case and the question here presented dbeM. not*rest
alone upon the implication resylting fro'm what was under
'consideration in that case but moreover expressly iYesults
from the fact that in the. Waycross Case,through abmdance of precaution attention was directed to the fact
that the ruling there made was', not controlling'as to a case
'where-the service to be done in a, State as the result 6f aninterstate commerce sale Was essntially connected with
the s!bject-matter of the sale, .that is, might'be made to
appropriately inhere in the duty of performance. 233 U.
S. p. 23.
As, in the second place, since'the ruling in McCu16ch v.
.Maryland,4 Wheat. 316, there has been no doubt that the
.interstate commerce power enbraced that which is relevbnt or reasonably appropriate. to the power granted, -so
also from such doctrine 'there 'can be no doubt that the
right to make an interstate commerce contract includes
in its very.terms the right.to incorporate into such 6ontract
provsins 'which are rele'irant and appropriate to the con-

YORK MFG.: CO. -'. ..COLLEY.
21.

Opidoh of the Court.

tract made. 'The only possible question, open therefore
is, was the particular provision of the contract for the service of an engineer to assemble and-erect, the machinery
in question at the point of destination and to practically.
test its efficiency before cohaplete delivery relevant and
appropriate to thdintbrstate sale of the machinery? When
the controversy is thus brought in last analysis to this issue
there would seem to be no ioom for any but an affirmative answer. Generically this must be unless it can be
said that an agreement to direct the assembling and supervision of machinery whose intrinsic value largely depends
upon its being united and made operative as a whole is
-not appropriate to its sale. The consequence of such a
ruling if made in this case would be partcularly emphasized by a consideration of the functions of the machinery
composing the plant which was sold; of its complexity,
of the iecessity of its aggregation and unison with mechanical skill and precision in order that the result of the contract of sale-the ice,plant purchased-might come into
existence. In its essential -principle therefore the case is
governed by Caldwell v. North Carolina, 1874U. S. 622;
*Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507; and Dozier v.
*Aldbama, 218 U. S. 124. In fact those cases were relied
upon in the Waycross ,Case as supporting the contention
that a mere areement f6r the erection of lightning rods
in a*contract made-concerning the shipment of such rods
in interstate commerce caused the act of erection to be itself interstate commerce. But the bais' upon which-the
eases were held to be not apposite, that is the local characteristic of the work of putting up lightning rods; not only
demonstrates beyond doubt the mistake concerning the
ruling as to the Waycro C se which was below committed, but serves- unerringly to establish the soundness
of the distinction by which the particular question' before
us is brought within the reach of interstate commerce.
Of course we are coticerned only vith the case before

26o.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917..
Dissent.

247 U. S.

us, that is, with a contract inherently, relating to and intrinsically dealing with the thing sold, the machinery and
all its parts constituting the ice plant. This view must be
borne in mind in order to make it clear that what is here
said does not concern the subject passed on in GeneraRaiiway Signal Co. v. Virginia, 246 U. S. 500, since in that case
the work required to be done by the contract over and
above its inherent and intrinsic relation to the subjectmatter of the interstate commerce contract involved the
performance .of duties over which the State had a right
to exercirse control because of their inherent intrastate
character. In fact the case last referred to when looked
.at from a broad point of viei is but an illustration of the'
principle applied in, the Waycross Cas&to the effect that
that which'was inherently intrastate dia. not lose its essential nature because it formed part of an interstate com-.
merce contract to which it had no necessary relation. And,
this truth by a negative piegnant states the-obverse view
that that "which i intrinsically interstate and immediately and inijerently connected with interstate commerceis entitled to the protection of the Cdnstitution of the
United States resulting from that relation.
It follows therefore that the judgment must be and if
is reversed and the case remanded'to the court below for
fuither proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JUswCE Pi y dissents.

