EX PARTE SIMONS.
221.

Argument for Petitioner.

for that year or when turned into cash. Indeed, the case
decides that such advance in value is not :ncome at all,
but merely increase of capital and -not subject to a tax
as income.

We concur, therefore, in the second proposition of the
Circuit Court of Appeals as well as in the first and affirm
the judgment.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRAND Is and MR. JusTIcE CLARKE

concur in the result.

EX PARTE SIMONS, PETITIONER.
TETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.
No: 26, Original.

Argued December 10, 1917.--Rule absolute
June 3, 1918.

Plaintiff brought an action for damages in two counts against executors,
in the District Court in Now York, the first count alleging a promise
of the testatrix to bequeath a certain sun in retmn for plaintiff's
senices, and the second her promise to pay their reasonable value.
On motion the first count was ordered transferred to the equity
docket, upon the ground that by the law of New York it could not
bb emtertained at. law. field, that this was an error, depriving plaintiff of the rig&t n~trik3by jury, and properly rectified by'mandamus.
Rule absolute.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Roger Foster for petitioner:
Whenever a constitutional right has be6n denied, or a
judge has acted clearly beyond-his jurisdiction, and there,
is no immediate remedy by a writ of error or appeal,

OCTOBER TERM, -1917.
Argument for Petitioner.

247 U. S.'

insndamus will issue to correct an error which if left uncorrected will cause confusion and complications so great
ihat se-ious inconvenience to the courts, and to the litigants, will result. Virginia v. Rives, 100 *U. S. 313, 323,

329; Virginiav. Paul, 148 U. S. 107; Kentucky v. Powers,
201 U. S. 1; Ex parte Metropolitan Water Co., 220 U. S.
539, 540, 546; Brown v. Circuit Judge of Kalamazoo
County, 75 Michigan, 274.
It is well settled that mandamus is the proper remedy
to prevent the emorcement of, an order for a change of
venue made by a court having exclusive jurisdiction to
'hear and determine the proceeding, and with no power
to send away the case for trial- elsewhere; and that an
appeal from the final judgment rendered by the court to
which the venue is changed does not afford an adequate
remedy. Washington ex rel. Wyman, Partridge & Co. v.
Spokane County, 40 Wash. 443; Ex parte Cox, 10 Missouri; 742; State ex rel- Harris v. Laughlin, 75 Missouri,
358; State ex rel. Schonhoff v. O'Bryan, 102 Missouri, 254
The effect of. this order is to grant a perpetual stay of
proceedings to enforce the first cause of action at common
law and to enjoin the further prosecution thereof at common law. It is well settled that mandamus will issue to
compel a court to proceed in a suit which it has improperly
stayed. Livingston v. Dorgenois, 7 Cranch, 577; Barber
Asphalt Pay. Co. v. Morris, 132 Fed. Rep. 945; McClellan
v. Carland,217 U., S. 268.
It will also issue to compel a court to proceed to judgment. Life & Fire Ins. Co. v. Wilson, 8 Pet: 291; Life
& Fire Ins. Co. v.. Adams, 9 Pet. 571; Ex parte Equitable
Trust Co., 231 Fed. Rep. 571, 585, 594; In re Watts, 214
Fed. Rep. 80; to compel a court to enforce its judgment,
Ex parte United States, 242 U. S. 27; to compel a judge to
permit documents on file in, the clerk's office under seal
to be produced, opened and put in evidence,- Ex parte
Uppercui,239 U. S. 435; to compel a:court to overrule an

EX PARTE SIMONS.
231.

Argument for Petitioner.

objection to a master's summons which required the defendant to render a sworn statement of an account in.accordance with Equity Rule 79, In re Beckwith, 203 Fed.
Rep. 45; 201 Fed. Rep. 518; to set aside an order of a Dis-.
trict Court which modified a decree rendered at a previous
term, although no appeal or writ of error was then pending or had been previously issued or taken, Re Dennett,.
215 Fed. Rep. 673; see alsoNew Liverpool Salt Co. v. Wellborn, 160 Fed. Rep. 923; to set aside an order disbarring
an attorney which had been rendered without jurisdiction
or after a proceeding in which the court below had acted
with flagrant impropriety. Ex parte Bradley, 7 Wall.
364; Ex parte Robinson, 19 Wall. .506. See also Ex parte
Wisner, 203 U. S. 449; In re Winn, 213 U. S. 458.
If mandamus will not lie, a*writ of prohibition should
be granted. United States v. Mayer, 235 U. S. 55; Ex
.parte Indiana TransportationCo., 244 U. S. 456; Ex parte
Equitable Trust .Co., 231 Fed. Rep. 571, 594; Lehman v.
Gumbel, 236 U. S. 448.
If neither of the foregoing writs can be obtained, the
petitioner has the right to a writ of certiorari-the original
writ issuable at common law which under its supervisory
jurisdiction is vested in this court by § 262, Jd. Code,
formerly Rev. Stats., §716. United States v. Beatty, 232
U. S.463,467.
A District Court of the United States, when sitting in
equity and when sitting at common law, exercises as independent a jurisdiction and in the contemplation of the
law constitutes two distinct courts just as much as when
it is a court of admiralty and a court of-bankruptcy. Jud.

Code, §24.
The petitioner has no less right to one of the extraordinary writs than if she had -sued upon a single cause of.
action, and that had been sent from the common-law court
to the court of equity. It is settled that when one of two
separate and different causes of action joined together in a

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Petitioner.

247 U. S.

single pleading has been dismissed, such dismissal may
be reviewed without awaiting the termination of the issues raised upon the other cause of action. Scriven v.
North, 134 Fed. Rep. 366; Historical Pub. Co. v. Jones
Bros. Pub. Co., 231 Fed. Rep. 784; Miocene Ditch Co. v.
Moore, 150 Fed. Rep. 483, 493; Hill v. Chicago & Evanston R. R.Co., 140 U. S. 52.
The District Court had no. power to make the order.
No statutory provision nor any -ecuity or common-law
rule gives such authority, although under Equity Rule 22
a motion may be made to send a cause from the equity
to the common-law calendar. The object of this rule is to
protect the constitutional right. No constitutional right
is infringed by the trial of a case before a jury which might
have been tried in equity. Section 274a, Jud. Code, merely
authorizes amendments; it does not authorize a transfer
in any case, Waldo v. Wilson, 231 Fed. Rep. 654; or a
severance; and it was clearly not its intention to watrant
a transfer upon compulsion against the wish of the plaintiff. If the plaintiff has selected a wrong side of the court
upon which to proceed, the penalty upon him is not to
compel him to go to the other side which he does not wish
to enter, but to dismiss his suit at the appropriate time
in the cause. Moreover, the statute does not purport to
justify a transfer of part of a suit.
The Constitution forbids such a transfer of part and of
the whole of a cause of action from law to equity, especially
when the plaintiff claims the right to a trial by jury.
The first as well as the second cause of action was cognizable at common law [Citing many cases.]
This is not a question which is to be decided according
to the state law. Lindsay v. First National Bank, 156
U S. 485, 593; Whitehead v. Shattuck, 138 U. S. 146, 151;
Wehrman v. Conklin, 155 U. S.314, 325.
The-same rule has been enforced in the State of New
York.

-

EX PARTE SIMONS.
231.

Argument for Respondents.

By the law of New York every right that is cognizable
by the courts is a right at common law, including those
which by the former practice could be enforced only by a
court of equity.
Mr. Edgai T. Bradett, with whori Mr. Clarke M. Rose,crantzwas on the brief, for respondents:,
The order can clearly be reviewed, on writ of error after
final judgment in the common-law action; Very .likely it
has become a part of the record in equity; but it also remains a part of the record in the law action, no less so than
would an order dismissing the first count, on demurrer or
motion. It puts the plaintiff, on the first count, out of
court in her action at law. It was entered by the court
sitting'as a court of law on a motion made by the defendants in the action at law. There is nothing in the situation of petitioner which entitles her to a speedier review
here than there would be if Jud. Code, §274a, had never
been enacted.
She may waive her objection to the order if she amends
and proceeds under it, but may elect to abide by her
declaration. The law'was not made to enable her to try
her case both at law and in equity.
The petitioner is possibly entitled to an immediate
review of the action of the trial court on writ of error from
the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Under Jud. Code, §274a, the court had the power to
transfer the first cause of action from the law to the equity
side. It is true the section says nothing about transfer.
But it is not an ordinary statute of amendments. Its
object is not to allow a pleading at law to be amended as
such-a right already existing,-but to protect the plaintiff where he could not amend to state a good cause of
action at law, against being put out of court altogether.
The court, therefore, shall order that he make the necessary amendments to change his declaration at law into a

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Respondents.

247 U. S.

bill in equity, and vice versa. It follows that an drder
of transfer from the law to the equity side, or from the
equity to the law side, as the case may be, is not only
proper but necessary, to get .the case instated on the
side of the court where it will have to be tried. The order in effect dismisses the cause 6f action wrongly sued
upon at law, and, at the same time, for the plaintiff's
benefit, transfers it so that he may proceed on the right
side of the court if he sees fit. The s6;tion authorizes
a severance. It is remedial and should be liberally' construed.
So far as *petitioner'sright at law is concerned, her constitutional right to trial by jury is no more and no less
involved than is the right of any other plaintiff to whose
declaration at law a general demurrer has been sustained.
If the demurrer was improperly sustained, the'petitioner
will, after reversal and remandment, obtain her jury
trial.
Petitioner is not entitled to the writ of mandamus.
Under § 274a the subject-matter of which the court is
given jurisdiction is precisely the determination of the
question whether or not a suit has been instituted on the
right side .of the court. If a judge decides this question
wrongly he is merely committing error, and not exceeding
his jurisdiction. -His ruling can be reviewed by writ of
error. This brings the case squarely within the usual rule
that the writ of mandamus cannot be used to serve the
purpose of an appeal..-,-,,-The situation here cannot be distinguished from the
attempt to review by mandamus the refusal to remand to
a state court, in a case where the question of removability
can be determined as a question of law on the record.
This was the question elaborately discussed and finally
set at rest in Ex pare Harding, 219 U. S. 363, The jurisdiction of the court to determine the question of law
whether or not the first count of plaintiff's declaration

'EX PARTE SIMONS,

237

* 2~I.'Argument for Rlespondents.
stated a common-law cause of action is plain. The right
of plaintiff to review on writ of error the court's determi
nation of that question is plain. Even if it be that, technically, the court had no jurisdiction of, the 'subjectmatter of its order', "since'the section (274a) empowered'
it only-to authorize or direct amendments in pleadingsand
not to order the transfer of a case, it by no means follows
that mandamus will lier to correct this "juris4ictional"
trespass. It is of no consequence to petitioner whether
or not the first count of her declaration be "transferred"
to the equity side before or after she. elects to amend and
proceed on that side. 'She is deprived of no substantial
right by the order considered as an order tralsferring a
part of her suit, as distinguished from an order merely
allowing her to amend. If she had beexable toamend the
first count of her declaration so as to make it a god count
at law, she would doubtless have been allowed to do-so d
she-made the request. No such-'request was xiade. "And
even if it had been made and had been refuged, shewould
have had precisely the same remedy that ' she nowhas,
namely, by writ of.error after final judgment. Teimportant and only 'vital question to petitioner is whether
or not the first count of her declaration states a commonlaw cause of action. If respondent decided that' question
wrongly, he was merely deciding wrongly the very question
which § 274a obliges him to decide, and, as already shown,
his conduct in thi, regard can certainly not be reviewed by

mandamus.
The right to prohibition or certiorari depends on precisely the same considerations determ ing the' rightto
mandamus.
An oral contract to'make a will is not in New York a
valid contract on which- an actibn at law may'be mainained, though in certain cases relief may be had in equity.
itationsew Y
l
a
o
a
i
a
If the New York law is as above -stated, it is -a rule

OCTOBER TERM, 1917
Opimon of the Court.

247 U. S.

of. substantive, law and -not a rule of procedure,, and
the federal courts will fl&efore _appry it. Scudder v
Unon. National Bank,--91 U S. 406, Pritchard v Norton,,J60 U. S.- 124. The cases cited' by petitioner are
all cases relating to remedies and not to substantive
rights.MR-BJRs!TcE Ho Es delivered the opmo1A of -the

Thi& is a petition for mandamus, or, if that is denied,
for piohibition or certiorari; to the-District Court for the
SouthenvDistrict-of New York.-f-uon the following facts.
The petitionerbroight, an action in two counts against
the executors of -a widow naiied Jrs. Frank Leslie,
The frst count alleged a promis& by Mrs.-Leslie that if
the Iplamntff would peform certani personal services of
attendan~ce and care to 'her, .she wouId bequeath to the
plaintiff- $50,00. It set forth the performance of the
services in-great 'det6it,-alleged the- death of Mrs. Leslie
and :prObate of' her' will, the -bequest to the plaintiff of
not nore than $10,900,, and claimed $40,000 with interest from one- year after, the- death of the testatrnx,
as. d",, ge. The second count "repeats by reference
the averments "8f*the first -ount, but alleges a pronise
to, pay the reasonable value'bf the plaintiff's services, set
at $50,000, of wlch $10,000 have been satisfied by
legacy, and. claims damages as before. On motion of the
,defendants the ,judge sitting to hear motions in the
District Court orderetd the first cause of action to be
transferred to the equity side of the Court and docketed
as an equity cause,, and to"'be stricken out of the complaint in the action at law, but only for the purpose of
transfef, allowing the plaintiff to amend, &c. The
ground disclosed' was that -by the law of New York the

EX PARTE SIMONS.
.231.

-Opinion of the Court.

plainti could not sustain the first cause of action at
law.
We do not find sufficient, ground for the opinion of the
judge in the New York decisions. No doubt alleged
contracts to make a provision by will must be approached
with great caution in the matter of proof, but there- is
no doubt that if proved they are valid so far as no statute
intervenes. So much seems to be assumed by the order
of the judge, and is the law we believe of New Y6rk -as
well as of other States and England. But if valid we see
no reason why a contractto bequeath a certain sum should
not give rise to an action for damages if broken, as cer-

tainly as a contract to pay the same sum in the contractor's life, or at the moment of the contractor's death.
Parker v. Coburn, 10 Allen, 82. In cases of c6ntracts to
leave all the testator's property, incliding land, or a
proportion of a residue requiring an account to ascertain
it, equitable remedies have been thought proper, and in
some such cases it has been assumed for the purposes
of argument that an*action would not lie at common
law. See Wiine v. Winne, 166 N. Y. 263. Phalen v.
United States Trust Co., 186 N. Y. 178. But we have
seen nothing that suggests an arbitrary departure by
the Courts of New York from the common law in ases
like the present. See. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. v.
Mortimer, 219 N. Y. 290, 295. DeCicco v. Schweizer, 221
N. Y. 431. Silvester's Case, Popham, 148, 2 Roll. R.
104. Fenton v. Emblers, 3 Burr. 1279. Van Houten v.
Van Houten, 89 N. J. L. 301. Krel v. Codman, 154
Massachusetts, 454.
If we are right, the order was wrong and deprived the
plaintiff of her right to a trial by jury: It is an order that
should be dealt with now, before the plaintiff is put to
the difficulties and the Courts to the inconvenience that
would be raised by a severance that ultimately must be
held to have been required under a mistake. It does not

