OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Counsel for Appellants.

247 U. S.

The decision in Union Pacifi Ry. Ca. v. Wyler, 158
U. S. 285, is so clearly distinguished in the Wulf Case,
supra, from the principle of these decisions that additional
comment would be superfluous.
It results that the- judgments of the Circuit Court of
Appeals and of the District Court must be reversed and
the cause remanded'to the latter Jor further proceedings

in conformity with this opinion. Reversed.

LOONEY, ATTORNEY GENERAL, ET AL. v. EASTERN TEXAS RAILROAD COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITD STATES
FOR THE WESTERN' DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 756. Argued April 16, 17, 1918.-Decided May 20, 1918.
In a suit by carriers to restrain the attorney general of a State from
instituting suits against them for damages and penalties for'complying with an order of the Interstate Commerce'Commission respecting
rates, the District Court issued a preliminary injunction (not appealed from) pending further proceedings by the Commission and
until final hearing by the court. Held, that a further order in the
case, restraining the defendant from prosecuting a suit of the character complained of which he subsequently began in a state court
was in exercise of the power of the District Court to protect its existing jurisdiction and was not appealable under Jud. Code, ยง 266.
Appeal dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Luther Nickels, Assistant Attorney General 'of the
State of Texas, with whom Mr. B. F. Looney, Attorney
General of the State of Texas, was on the briefs, for appellants.

LOONEY v. EASTERN TEXAS R. R. CO.
214.

Opinion of the Court.

Mlr. J. W. Terry, with whom Mr. Hiram Glass and
MIr. H. M. Garwood were on the briefs, for appellees.
Mi. JusTmic CLmmx

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case presents for decision a -motion by appellees
to dismiss the appeal for want of jurisdiction, and it in--olves the consideration of the latest chapter in a litigation which was commenced in 1911, when the Railroad Commission *of Louisiana filed with the Interstate
Comnierce Commission a complaint charging various
railroad companies with maintaining unreasonable rates
on traffic from Shreveport, Louisiana, to points in Texas,
and with maintaining rates which unjustly discriminated
in favor of traffic moving wholly within the State of
Texas as against that between Louisiana and Texas.
A hearing resulted ii an order by the Commission,
which was assailed by the railroad companies as invalid,
but which this court sustained in Houston, East & West
Texas Ry. Co. v. United States, 234 U. S. 342, in a decision
rendered in 1913, which has come to be widely referred
to as the "Shreveport Case."
After this decision there were further proceedings
before the Interstate Commerce Commission, which resulted, on July 7, 1916, -in the order out of which this
litigation arose, which required many railroad companies,
among other things,
"To establish, on or before November 1, 1916,
and thereafter to maintain and apply to the transportation
of property between Shreveport, Louisiana, and points
in the State of Texas, class rates and rates on the abovenamed [in the order] commodities not in excess of those
contemporaneously applied by them for the transportation of like property for like distances between points
in the State of Texas, except in those instances in which
the rates between Texas points have, been depressed

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Opinion of the Court

247 U. S.

by reason of water competition along the Gulf of Mexico
or waters contiguous thereto."
Immediately after this order was entered the Attorney
General of Texas declared that it was void and that he
would institute suits under the Texas laws for damages
and penalties against any carrier which should comply
with it. Thereupon the carriers filed a bill in the United
States District Court for the Western District of Texas,
in which they ,averred the validity of the order, the necessity for their obeying it, their intention to obey it,
the threat of' suits by the Attorney General, and, attaching a coy of the tariff they had compiled to comply with
the order (designated, as Texas Lines Tariff 2-B), they
prayed for an injunction restraining the Attorney General from e~ecuting the threat which he had made. A
temporary restraining brder was granted and on November 1st, 1916, the tariffs were duly filed.
Issue was joined on this bill, and elaborate pleadings
were filed by both parties, such that there can be no
doubt that the Attorney General challenged the validity
of the ordei.as arbitrary, unreasonable, unsupported by
the evidence and void, and especially as being inapplicable, in terms and for want of power, to the western
part of Texas, which, for rate-making purposes, is designated "ifferential territory."
An application for a temporary injunction, on the
issues thus joined, was heard on April 4, 1917, by three
judges, and resulted in an order as prayed for. The court,
in arriving at its announced conclusion, expressly disclaimed passing on the merits of the contr'versy, and
granted the injunction because, as is variously stated in
the opinions rendered, it deemed it necessary to, prevent
a multiplicity of destructive suits against the carriers;
because the order of the Commission could not be held
void on a preliminary hearing; and because -the Texas,.
rate situation Involved was at the=time iR process of re-

LOONEY i. EASTERN TEXAS R. R. CO.
214:

Opinion of the Court..

examination by the Interstate Commerce Commission.
No appeal was taken from this order.
Between the time of the filing of the bill for the injunction and the hearing on April 4th, the Interstate
Commerce Commission had entered two orders in the
proceeding in which the order of July 7'th, 1916, had been
granted, one that the tariff filed by the carriers on November 1st, Texas Lines Tariff 2-B, slightly modified,
should be permitted to remain effective until further
order; and another re-opening the proceeding to give to
the Texas authorities an opportunity to introduce new
and material evidence, which they asserted, should lead
to a modification or vacating of the order and might bring
'about a just and reasonable settlement of the controversy.
Immediately after the granting of the preliminary
'injunction the taking of testimony in the re-opened inquiry was commenced by the - Interstate Commerce
Commission, the Attorney General participating, and
*ent forward until in May, when it was continued to the
following October for the filing of briefs and for oral
argument.
And- now, notwithstanding the temporary injunction
and notwithstanding the pendency of the re-opened hearing before the Interstate Commerce Commission, the
Attorney General on July 20th, instituted suit in a Texas
state court, in which he prayed for an.injunction restraining the carriers from giving the effect which they
had been giving to the Texas Lines Tariff, 2-B, since
November 1st of the preceding year, as applied to intrastate traffic moving less than 351 miles within, to and
from "differential territory" in Texas. Before' the date
set for this application by the Attorney General for an injimction, the carriers filed a second supplemental bill in
their suit in the United States court; detailing the facts
with respect to the various proceedings and hearings
which had been had therein, and with respect to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 i. S.

ijunction, not appealed from, granted in the preceding
April, and prayed that the Attorney General be enjoined
from prosecuting the suit commenced by him in the state
court or any other suit of like character, for the reason,
among others, that "It is necessary to protect the jurisdiction of this court already acquired over the subject
matter, and in order to afford these plaintiffs [the carriers]
full and complete relief."
The Attorney General answered this bill, denying that
the rates complained of in the state court were warranted
by the order of July 7th, 1916, or by the proper construction of the Texas Lines Tariff 2-B, and then went
forward -and again assailed the validity of the order of
July 7th, 1916, on substantially the same grounds stated
in answers filed by him in the case prior to the granting of
the injunction in the preceding April, and he prayed that
the order be declared to be null and void, in whole or in
part.
On this supplemental bill an injunction was granted,
to continue until final hearing or until further order of
the court, enjoining the 'Attorney General and his assistants from prosecuting the suit thus commenced by him
in the Texas court, and from instituting or prosecuting
any similar suits in any court other than the United
States District Court for the Western District Of Texas
and from in any way interfering with the carriers in
charging the rates published in Texas Lines Tariff 2-B
and supplements thereto.
From this temporary injunction the Attorney General
appeals to this court, and the case has been heard on the
motion of the appellees to dismiss the appeal for want of
jurisdiction. One ground, among others, urged for sustaining this motion is that thle Federal District Court
having acquired, and having entered upon the exercise
of jurisdiction over- the parties to and the subject-matter
pf the suit in that court, prior to the commencement of

LOONEY r. EASTERN TEXAS R. R. CO.
214.

Opinion of the Court.

the suit in the state court, the injunction issued against
the Attorney General was granted in aid of and was nec-:
essary to protect that jurisdiction until a conclusion should
be reached completely disposing of the case and controversy, and is therefore not an appealable order within
ยง 266 of the Judicial C6de.
The theory upon which the Attorney General seeks to
sustain his appeal is, that the injunction of September
22nd is one restraining him in his capacity as a state officer from enforcing statutes of the State of Texas and
orders by the Railroad Commission of that State entered
pursuant thereto, on the ground that the statutes are
unconstitutional and that the orders are unlawful, and
therefore, it is claimed, an appeal direct to this court is
warranted under ยง266 of the Judicial Code.
With this c6ntention of the Attorney General we cannot agree. There is no claim in the second supplemental
bill, on which this injunction was granted, 'that any
state statute is unconstitutional or that the execution of
any order of the Railroad Commission of Texas should be
suspended because invalid. The bill is very voluminous,
*but as we interpret its allegations it simply sets out in de.tail the history of the suit in which it was filed, for the
purpose of showing: that.by the pleadings of.the parties,by those of the carriers not more than by those of the
Attorney General,--every phase of the controversy, and
definitely the aspect of it involved in the petition filed
in the state court by the Attorney General on July 20,
1917, had been submitted to and was considered by the
court when ,the application for a temporary injunction
was heard in the preceding April, and also what the facts
were with respect to the re-opened inquiry before the Interstate Commerce Commission, so that it should appear
to the court that the Texas rate situation, again involving
the phase of it presented by the Attorney General in the
state suit, was pending, undisposed of before the Commis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

sion when his petition was filed. The specific ground of
the prayer for the injunction is, "Because the state court
is without jurisdiction of the subject matter and because
it is necessary to protect the jurisdiction of this court
already acquired over the subject matter, and in order to
afford these plaintiffs full and complete relief, contemplated and intended by the opinions of such Circuit
Judges and order made by them granting the injunction
herein."
The opinion of the court in granting the injunction
appealed from is a satisfactory and sufficient statement
of what this record discloses had been done in the case
prior to the application for the injunction and amply justifies the granting of it. This statement is as follows:
"The subject-matter of the State suit is a part of that
involved in this case. The jurisdiction of this Court with
reference thereto has 1?een invoked by the parties plaintiff and defendant and by interveners; the jurisdiction
has been exercised by this Court in granting an injunction
at the prayer of plaintiffs, and refusing one asked by defendants, and by considering and determining an application for a continuance, . . . Jurisdiction having
been conferred by law, having been invoked by all the
parties, and having been exercised by the Court, its
protection is a right and duty not limited by ยง 266, Judicial Code. The injunction prayed for by complainants
is granted. .
" ..But, waiving all questions as to the legality or
propriety of modifying their action [that of the Judges in
April preceding], our conclusion is that the present status
should be maintained until such time as this Court may
consider all of the grave questions of law and all the
great mass of facts connected with this complicated and
important litigation. The fact that the matters involved
- are again before the Interstate Commerce Commission,
and that their action may affect the rates attacked, fur-

