OCTOBER TEFLM, _J17.

484

Syllabus.

247 U. S.

And before the judgments were entered
630, 645, 64.
by the Supreme Court .of Minnesota in these cases, the
Interstate Commerce Commission had determined that,
under the circumstances, "the carrier was not required.
by law to change its methods of operation and abandon
the use of its more favorable interstate line"; and had refused to grant refunds in respect to the shipment of other
commodities, under circumstances precisely like those
presented here.
The fact that the ad ninistrative question presented
involves an intrastate as well as interstate route does not
prevent the application of the rule, that the couts may
pot be resorted to until the administrative question
has been determined by the Commission. It is sufficient
tlhat one-of the routes is interstate. Compare Minnesota

~~ A19-420; Houston~ East &
West Texas Ry. Co. v. United Stdk, 234-T S. 342.
Ti 4nunbers ,205 and 206 judgmentsrepprAed.
In nizuber 526 wri iof error dismissed.

AIKINS v. KINGSBURY, AS REGISTER OF THE
STATE LAND OFFICE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE
CALIFORNIA.
No. 265.

OF

Submitted April 25, 1918.-Decided June 10, 1918.

By the law as it was wlhen he bought, a -purchaser of state lands in
default as to interest on a deferred paym'ent was liable to have his
interest in the land and in the c~traet foreclosed by a court proceeding begun on summary notice, but subject to his right to redeem by paying interest and costs within 20 days from judgmekt

AIKINS v,. KINGSBURY.

484.

Opinion of the Court.

An act was passed declaring forfeiturein such cases in which the Tiefault had. continued for five years and in whiah'the State prior to
the passage of the act had issued another certificate for the same
land to a subsequent purchaser, unless all arrears of interest were
paid within 6 months of its passage. Held, a change of remedy, not
impairing the obligation of the contract of purchase.
One whose contract for the purchase of state lands had been for, many
years in default for nonpayment of interest both before and after
the passage of a law forfeiting such contracts if the interest were
not paid within a time stated, and who conceded the default and
offered no excuse, held, not in a position to object that the law lacked
due process in failing to allow time and opportunity for testing the
liability to forfeiture in a court proceeding.
170 California, 674, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. R. P. Henshallfor.plaintiff in error.
Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of the State of California, and -Mr. RoberL W. HarrisornDeputy Attorney
General of the Statd of California, for defendant in error.
Mr. Fred W. Lake, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus curia!.
MR. JUSTICE CiAxE delivered the opinion of the court.
On June 3, 1869, the State of California sold to Charles
A. B. Brackett three hundred and twenty acres of -school
land, and delivered to him a "certificate of purchase"
for it. Twenty.per cent., of the purchase money was payable at the time of the purchase and the remainder "within
one year after the passage of any. act of the Legislature
requiring such payment, or before, if desired by the purchaser."
The unpaid purchase money was to bear interest at the
rate of ten per cent. per annum, payable in advance.
The purchaser .paid interest to January 1, 1873, and
nothing further for thirty-eight years, when, on October 26,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

191, a' state official, without authority to waive the default, accepted the amount of the unpaid purchase money
and interest from the plaintiff in error, as transferee of the
certificate, who thereupon demanded a patent for' the'
land, which was refused for the reason-that on December 29, 1886, a certificate of purchase for the same land
had:been issued by the State 'to Michael Phillips, on
which-the principal and interest was paid in full on August,28, 1911. -,
Upon this refusal by tb i State, the plaintiff in efror filed
the petition in this case "for a writ of mandate" to compel
the defendant in error, as Register of the Land -Office of
the State, to preparea patent for the land in controversy
. nd to send the same to the Governor of the State, together with a certificate that the ]aws had been-complied"
with; and that-he as transferee of Charles A. B. Brackett
•was. ntitled thereto. .Such h suit is said by the Supreme
'Court of'Cafifornia to be "in effect an action to require
.,specific performance on the part of the'State '" of -thecontract evidenced by.the certificate of purchase.
A judgment .ofthe Superior Court-granting-the prayer
of the petition was affirmed by the District Court of Appeals, and this in turn was reversed by the decision of the
Supreme Court of the State which is now before' us for
review.
In 1889 the legislature of California passed an act providing that in all cases 'nwhich a certificate of purchase
of pliblic land had-,been issued prior to March 27, 1872,
- on which artars' of principal or interest had remained
'due and--unpaid for five years, and in which, prior to the
passage of 'the act; the State had issued to a subsequent
purchaser angther certificate for the same land, the owner
of the first issued certificate should be deemed'to -have
lost the right: to the land or to complete the contract for
.the' purchase of it, unless he should pay all unpaid interest within six months from the passage of the act.

AIKINS r. KINGSBURY.
484.

Opinion of the Court.

If this act is a valid law it is obvious that it cut off the
plaintiff in error's transferor from all interest in,the
land in controversy, for the Brackett certificate was issued prior to March 27, 1872, interest on it-had been due
and unpaid for sixteen years, and another certificate had
been issued to Phillips, when the act was passed, and
nothing further was paid until 1911.
But the plaintiff in eiror claims that this act of 1889 is
invalid because it impairs the obligation of his contract of
1869 and deprives him of his property without due process
of law.
These are large claims, made in impressive terms, but
in reality the only obligations of this simple contract were,
that the State, on the one hand, should furnish a patent
to the land when it should be paid for at the times and
in the manner stipulated, and that the purchaser, on the
other hand, should make payment as he had agreed to
make it.
For the enforcement of the contract the law gave to the
State a remedy by foreclosure, in a court proceeding,- for
default of the purchaser, and to the purchaser or his assigns was given the privilege to redeem at any time before
the expiration of twenty days from entry of judgment of
foreclosure against him.
And now, after having neglected, if not repudiated,
his obligation under the contract, by failing to pay the
interest due upon it for 16 years before the act was passed
and for 22 years thereafter, the plaintiff in error. comes
complaining that the State by the Act of 1889 impaired his
right under it by taking away the twenty-day period of
redemption, which the prior law, allowed, even though a
six months' period of redemption, from the passage of the
act, was substituted for it.
It is sufficient answer to this contention to say that:
The right of the State to-foreclose such a contract for
default in payment, and the right of the purchaser t

488

0CT9BER TERM, 1917.

Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S

redeem after a default decree, relate to the remedy as
distinguished from the obligation of the contract, and both
of these rights axe constitutionally-subject to modification
by the State, within limits which were not exceeded in the
act bhsore us, as is cdecided'in Wilson v. Standefer, 184 U. S.
399, and in Waggoner'v. Flack,-188 U. S. 595, which are
strikingly similar in their facts and in their applicable law.
to the case we axe considering. - The right of the purchaser
to redeem -under the prior law was limited to paying
before the expiration of I wenty.-days from entry of default
"the amount due the State and the costs of suit" and this
right was modified, by the Act of 1889 so as to permit
redemption by paying "the interest- remaining unpaid
for such, purchase within six months from and after the
passage of this act." - The notice to defendants in a suit for
default under the prior law was of such a summary character that we cannot doubt that the privilege of the
purchaser to redeem under the Act of 1889 is as liberal
as it was before the -act was passed and the change, therefore, -did-not deprive him- of any substantial right or
benefit.
Itis,
however, pressed upon our attention as an important difference between the Texas act involved in these
cited cases and the California act before us, that the
former; ix terms, gives'to the purchaser of public land the
privilege for six months after a decree of forfeiture has
been- entered against him, by a designated state officer, of
resorting to a court proceeding to get aside such default
* .on the ground that it was-not atithorized, while no such
provision is contained in the latter. It is asserted that
this distinguishes the two acts, and that the absence
of authority for such a-court proceeding renders the
* California act invalid, by depriving the plaintiff in error
of his property without due process of law.
It would be sufficient reply to this to say that the right
to redeem after default decreed, which the purchaser had

AIKINS v. KINGSBURY.
484.

Opinion of the Court.

under the California statute when his contract was made,.
was limited to payment of "the amount due the State
and the costs of suit," and that, therefore, the Act of 1889
did not deprive him of such a privilege as the Texas act
gave, of setting aside the decree in a court proceeding
on the ground that it was not authorized.
But it is not important for us to consider such a question,
for it is not presented in the record before us. The plaintiff in error comes admitting that for thirty-eight years
he and the persons through whom he claims were in default, and, since he does not offer any excuse for such
abandonment of the contract, even if the California act
had contained the provision of the Texas act allowing a
court review of the default def ied in it, such remedy
could not have been of any avail to the plaintiff in error
for he makes no case upon which he could possibly have
made use of it, and he is, therefore, not in any position
to attack the constitutionality of the act involved for an
omission which does not injure him, and which, if supplied,
would not benefit him. He who would successfully assail
a law as unconstitutional must come showing that the
feature of the act complained of operates to deprive him
of some constitutional right. Tyler v. Judges, 179 U. S.
405; Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania,232 U. S. 531, 544;
Lehon v. City of Atlanta, 242 U. S. 53, 56.
We quite agree with the Supreme Court of California
that this case is ruled in all essentials by the Waggoner
Case, supra,and this renders unnecessary the consideration
of the applicability of the doctrine of laches.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California must
be
Affirmed.

