PECK & CO. v. LOWE.
142.

Syllabus.

Believing, as I do, that upon the discussion in this
opinion and upon the authorities cited, the insolvent
corporation involved was one within the exception of
the Minnesota constitution and that, therefore, no
double liability attached to the defendant in error; that
under the Minnesota decisions cited this defense could
have been successfully made against the order if it had
been sued on in a Minnesota court; that the implied
finding that the corporatiop, was not within the exception
is necessarily jurisdictional, and that therefore it was open
to the stockholders to assail it when sued in North Dakota,
as it would have been in Minnesota; and that facts
sufficient appeared on the face of the complaint to show
that in this case the defense was a valid one, I think the
judgment of the Dakota courts should be affirmed and
therefore dissent from the decision of the court.
MR. JUSTICE

PiTNEY and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS con-

cur in this dissent

WILLIAM E. PECK & COMPANY, INCORPORATED,
v. LOWE, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
SECOND DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 234.

Argued December 10, 11, 1917.-Decided May 20, 1918.

The Sixteenth Amendment does not extend the power of taxation to
new or excepted subjects, but merely removes occasion for apportioning taxes on income among the States.
Net income of a corporation derived from exporting goods from the
States and selling them abroad is subject to be taxed under ยง fI
of the Income Tax Law of October 3, 1913, c. 16, 38 Stat. 166, 172,

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

247 U. S.

as part of the "entire net income arising or accruing from all
sources."
Such a tax, general and in no way discriminating against exports and
affecting the export business at most only indirectly, is not.contrary
to the constitutional provision that "no tnx or duty shall be laid
on articles 6xported from any State." Art. 1, ยง 9, cl. 5.
234 Fed. Rep. 125, affirmed.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles P. Spooner and Mr. Richard V. Lindabury,
with whom Mr. John C. Spooner and Mr. Ralph T. Keyser
were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error:
A tax upon income derived from exports, by whatever
name it is called, is a tax upon exports, and is therefore unconstitutional. Congress may no more burden exports
and exportation by indirection than by a tax directly
upon the article exported; the substance and effect and
not the form of a tax controls. The principle here involved has found repeated examples in cases of state taxes,
in various forms, burdening interstate and foreign commerce. Brown'v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 445; Cook v.
Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566; Weltonv. Missouri, 91 U. S.
275; Philadelphia & Southern S. S. Co. v.. Pennsylvania,
122 U. S. 326, 336; Leloup v. Port of Mobile, 127 U. S.
640, 645. .In.Fairbankv. United States, 181 U. S.283, 295,
the court, citing Brown v. Maryland, held ,hat "the freedom of exportation being guaranteed by the Constitution
it cannot be disturbed by any form of legislation which
burdens that exportation. The form in which the burden
is imposed cannot vary the substance." To the same
effect: United States v. New York & Cuba Mail S. S. Co.,
200 U. S. 488; United States v. Hvoslef, 237 U. S. 1; Thames
& Mersey Ins. Co. v. United States, 237 U. S. 18; State v.
Allgeyer; 110 Louisiana, 839. See further (as to state
taxes): Welton v. Missouri, supra, 278; Low v. Austin,
13 Wal..29, 34; Cook v. Pennsylvania,.supra, 570; Webber
v. Virginia, 103 U. S. 344, 350.

PECK & CO. v. LOWE.
165.

Mwgment for Plaintiff in Error.

It is well settled by the decisions that a tax on income
is a tax on the source from which the. income is derived,
and that if the source be not subject to tax the income
cannot be. This principle is clearly stated in the final
decision of the Pollock Case, 158 U. S. 630.,
On the first hearing of that case the Attorney General
sought to justify the assessment of the tax on the income
from state and municipal securities "as part of the total
income of the respective owners under a law assessing incomes generally "and not discriminating between those
securities and others of like character." But this court,
in its first as well as in its final decision, unanimously overthrew this contention. In the decision upon the first
hearing (157 U. S. 429), the majority and the dissenting
opinions agreed on this point. In the same opinion the
court held that an -annual tax upon the income from,real
estate is the same in substance as an annual tax on the
real estate; also that a tax on income from personal property is a tax on that property. 158 U. S. 618.
The Pollock Case shows clearly that there is no possible
distinction between taxing an income and taxing the
source from which it is derived. In the case at 'bar, the
plaintiff is in just the same positionj as to federal income
taxation, as a state official receiving a salary from his
State or a recipient of income from state or municipal
bonds. See Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113; Dobbins v.
Erie County Commrs., 16 Pet. 435.
Upon the foregoing principles and decisions, this tax is
unconstitutional. The income consists almost wholly of
commissions or profits on sales of goods exported. The
income from a group of such sales is a collection of the incomes from single sales. In considering either single export sales or transactionis, or groups of them, and the
profit or income therefrom, it is clear that no distinction
can be established between the taxation of such sale or
transaction and the taxation of the income or profit there-

OC-TOBER TERNI, 1917.
Argument for Plaintiff rl,Error.

247 U. S.

from. - The profit is the net yield or proceeds of the transaction; nd the most essential and necessary factor in it,
in fact, its very object and purpose, for the sake of which
the transaction is made and except for which in sufficient
amount the transaction wouldnot be made.
No distinction ha been drawn, in the courts or incommercial life, between the taxation of a transaction and the
taxation of the proceeds of it. There is no difference in
substance .and effect between a tax on the goods-in course
of eyportation, or on. the bill of lading, or on the bill of
exchatge (Fairbank v. Tnited States, supra), or on the
commission or'profit of the sale. All are alike burdens on
t~e export transution, and 'this is the essential matter.
Differences in ate or method of application axe of no significance.
If it were held that a tax on income-from exports is not
a tax on exports, the result would be to open the way to
serious injury or destruction of export trade by taxation,
which would in effect. overthrow the constitutional prohibition against taxing exports. For if it be. not taxing
exports to tax the income at the rate of one per cent., any
higher rate would be equally.permissible. Congress has
power to arid does discriminate in the income tax between
different kinds of occupations and conditions, exemnpting
some and varying the taxes imposed on others. The reauirement of uniformity is held by the court to be sufficiently met when. all the members of any designated
class are treated alike throughout the United States.
Likewise, Congress has power to and does. discriminate
between commodities. And so, if A tax on income from
exports were not a tax on exports, Congress- could at any
.time impose higher than.the normal or ordinary rates on
incomes of exporters, or certain classes of exporters, as in
the Fairbank Case. Thus, by resorting to discriminatory
and excessive taxes, Congress could suppress given classes

of export business and lines of exportation to suit its views

PECK & CQ. v. LOWE,
165.

i69

Argument for PlaiWtiff in Error.

of economic policy. And the principle thus accredited
would logically lead to the taxation of the.income of state
securities by the United States and of United States securities by the States; the virtual siate taxation of interstate and foreign commerce, and of the salaries of federal
judges and other officers, to which Congress might reciprocate by like taxes on state officials. The results
would be evil in the extreme.
It is not. denied that income from exportation after .
it has been received and become comminjgled with the
general property of the taxpayer is liable to the imposition of a general property tax, either federal or state,
or both. So also -isthe income from state and federal
bonds, the salary of state and federal officials aid the re-'
ceipts from interstate commece.
It is one thing,- however, to tax property which, although derived as-income from a non-taxable source,- has
become an indistinguishable part of the taxpayer's- general funds, and quite a different thing to tax a person on'
account of his receipt of an income from such source.
The difference between the two classes of taxes ,was
pointed out by Mr. Justice Bradley in Philadephia &"
Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S.. 326, 341.
It will be observed that in Weston v. Charleston, 2-Pet..
449; Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113; and the Pollock Case,
supra, .he tax was imposed under general income tax
acts, two of which were similar in their provisions to the
act under which the present tax was imposed, and in all
of them the income had been received and had become as
much a part of the general property of the taxpayer as the
income taxed in the present case.
If the income from state and federal securities and from
state and federal offices cannot lbe.taxed, how can the income from exports be taxed? And, conversely, if the income from exports can be taxed, how can the income from.
state and federal securities and offices escape?

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

247 U. S.

In answer to the argument that the constitutional prohibition against the taxation of exports was designed to
give immunity, only to property in the actual course of
exportation, see United States v. Hvosef, 237 U. S. 1, 13;
Philadelphia & South rn S.' S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122
U. S. 326, 338; Leloup v. Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640,
648.
As to the cases of Cornell v. Coyne, 102 U. S. 418; Brown
v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; Turpin v. Burgess, 117 U. S.
504; and State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall.
284, cited by the Government, it is enough to say: (1)
That the last, named was unanimously overruled in Phiadelphia & Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra. (2)
That in the other three the tax was a general property
tax and was levied upon manufactured goods before they
became the subject of exiortation. Flint v. Stone Tracy
C6., 220 U. S. 107, decides nothing more than thai "when
the sovereign authority has exercised the right io tax a
legitimate subject of taxation, as an exercise of a franchise
or privilege, it is no objection that a measure of taxation
is found in the income produced in part from property
which itself considered is nontaxable." But here, the
franchise or privilege involved is clearly not a "legitimate
subject of taxation," as the authorities already cited,
establish.
. Neither can the tax be sustained as a tax on the person,
measured by income. Such a tax would be by. nature a
capitation rather than an excise, and, in any event, would
be a mere evasion for reaching exports indirectly. See
Brown v. Maryland, supra; Dobbins v. Erie County Con mrs., supra; Cook v. Pennsylvania, supra; Leloup v. Port
of Mobile, supra;State v. Allgeyer, supra.
The various opinions in the Pollock Case show that the
coirt divided'only on the question as to whether the tax
levied under the Incomb Tax Act of 1894 was direct o' indirect in so far as it was imposed upon income from real and

PECK & CO. v,. LOWE.
165.

Opinion of the Court.

personal property, and that the court was unanimous in
holding that the tax was unconstitutional in so far as it
rested upon income from municipal securities for the-reason
that Congress was- without power to impose any tax
whatever upon such securities and, therefore, the question
as to whether the tax, as applied to them, was direct or
indirect; was altogether negligible.
Mr.'Assistant Attorney General Fitts for defendant in
error:
A general tax laid upon all persons with respect to their
income does not become a tax upon "articles exported"
because the income is derived from an export business.
Citing and discussing: Brady v. Anderson, 240 Fed. Rep.
.665; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; Coe v. Errol, 116
U. S. 517; Cooley v: Port Wardens, 12 How. 299; Cornell v.
Coyne, 192 U. S. 418; Fairbankv. United States, 181 U. S.
283; Pace v. Burgess, 92 U. S. 372; Philadelphia& Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 I. S. 326- State Tax
on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 284; Thames & Mersey
Ins. Co. v. United States, 237 U. S. 19; Turpin v. Burgess,
117 U. S. 504; United States v. Hvoslef, 237 U. S. 1.
The case is completely governed by the decisions of this
court in the corporation tax and income ta* cases. Citing and discussing: Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. R. Co.,
24-O U. S. 1; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107; Galfeston, Harrisburg& San Antonio Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210
U. S. 217; Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 142 U. S. 217;
Stanton v. Baltic Mining Co., 240 U. S. 103; Stratton's
Independence v. Howbert, 231 U. S. 399.
MR. JusTinc

V.w DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
Thii was an action to recover a tax paid under protest
and alleged to have been imposed contrary to the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.-

247 U. .

stitutional provision (Art. 1, ยง 9, cl. 5) that "No tax or
duty shall be laid on articles exported from any State."
The judgment below was for the defendant. 234 Fed.
Rep. 125.The plaintiff is a domestic corporation chiefly engaged
in buying goods in the several States, shipping them to
foreign countries And there selling them. In 1914 its net
income from this business was $30,173.66, and from other
sources $12,436.24. An income tax for that year, computed on the aggregate of these sums, was assessed against
it and paid under compulsion. It- is conceded that
so much of the tax as was based on the income from other
sources was valid, and the controversy is over so much
of it as was attributable to the income from shipping
goods to foreign countries and there selling them.
The tax was levied under the Act of October 3, 1913,
c. 16, ยง 1, 38 Stat. 166, 172, which provided for annually
subjecting every domestic corporation to the payment of
a tax of a specified per centum of its "entire net income
arising or accruing from all sources during the preceding
calendar year." Certain fraternal and other corporations,
as also income from certain enumerated sources, were
specifically excepted, but none of the exceptions included
the plaintiff or any part of its income. So, tested merely
by the terms of the act, the tax collected from the plaintiff
was rightly computed on its total net income. But as the
act obviously could not impose a tax forbidden by the
Constitution, we proceed to consider whether the tax, or
rather the part in question, was forbidden by the constitutional provision on which the plaintiff relies.
The Sixteenth Amendment, although referred to in
argument, has no real bearing and may be put out of
view. As pointed out in recent decisions, it does not
extend the taxing power to new or excepted subjects,
but merely removes all occasion, which otherwise might
exist, for an apportionment among the States of taxes

PECK & CO. v. LOWE.
165.

Opinion of the Court.

laid on income, whether it be derived from one source
or another. Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 240
U. S. 1, 17-19; Stanton v. Baltic Mining Co., 240 U. S.
103, 112-113.
The Constitutioi broadly empowers Congress not only
"to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises,"
but. also "to regulate commerce with foreign nations.".
So, if the prohibitory clause invoked by the plaintiff be
not in the way, Congress undoubtedly has power to lay
and collect such a tax as h here in question. That clause
says "No tax or duty shall be laid on ,prticles exported
from any State." Of course it qualifies and restricts the
power to tax as broadly conferred. But to what extent?
The decisions of this court answer that it excepts from the
range of that power articles in course of exportation,
Turpin v. Burgess; 117 U. S. 504, 507; the act or occupation of exporting, Brown.v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419,
445; bills of lading for articles being exported, Fairbank
v. United States, 181 U. S. 283; charter parties for the
carriage of cargoes from state to foreign ports, United
States v. Hvoslef, 237 U. S. 1; and policies of marine insurance on articles being exported,-such insurance being
uniformly regarded as "an integral part of the exportation" and the policy as "one of the ordinary shipping
doc uments,"- Thames and Mersey Insuranci Co. v. United
States, 237 U. S. 19. In short, the court has interpreted
the clause as meaning that exportation must be free from
taxation, and therefore as requiring "not simply an omission of a tax upon the articles exported, but also a freedom
from any tax which directly burdens the exportation."
Fairbank v. United States, supra, pp. 292-293. And the
court has indicated that where the tax is not laid on the
articles themselves while in course of exportation the true
test of its validity is whether it "'odirectly and closely"
bears on the "process of exporting" as to be in substance
a tax on the exportatiQn. Thames and Mersey Insurance

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court..

247 U. S.

Co. v. United States, supra, p. 25. In ,this view it has
been held that the clause does not condemn or invalidate
"charges or taxes, not laid on property while being exported, merely because they affect exportation indirectly
or remotely. Thus a charge for stamps which each package of manufactured tobacco intended for export was
required to bear.before removal from the factory was upheld in Pace v. Burgess, 92 U. S. 372, and Turpin v.
Burgess, 117 U. S. 504; and the application of a manufacturing tax on all filled cheese to cheese manufactured
under contract for export, and actually (hported, was upheld in Cornell v. Coyne, 192 U. S. 418. In that case it was
said, p. 427: "The true construction of the constitutional
provision is that no burden by way of tax or duty can be
cast upon the exportation of articles, and does not mean
that articles exported are relieved from the prior ordinary
burdens of taxation which rest upon all property similarly
sitpaated. The exemption attaches to the exp6rt and not
.
to the article before its exportation.
While fully assenting and adhering to the interpretation
which has been put on the clause in giving effect to its
spirit as well as its letter, we are of opinion that to broaden
that interpretation would be to depart from both the
spirit and letter.
The tax in question is unlike any of those heretofore
condemned. It is not laid on articles in course of exportation or on anything which inherently or by the usages of commerce is embraced in exportatiQn or any of its
processes., On the contrary, it is an income tax laid generally on -net incomes. And while it cannot be applied to
any income which Congress has no power to tax (see
Stanton v. Baltic Mining Co., supra, p. 113), it is both
nominally and actually a general tax. If is not laid on
inc6me from exportation because of its source, or in a discriminative way, but just as it is laid on other income.
The words of the act are "net income arising or accruing

