COX v. WOOD.
Opinion of the Covzt.

1."

131 Kentucky, 445; Carother&wv Mosely, 99 Mississippi,
671; Hayes v. Manning, 263 Missouri, 1; Missouri Valley.
College- v. Guthr e, 263 Missouri, 52; First Presbyt n
Church v. "CtmberlandPresbyterianChurch, 34 Oklahoma,
503; Brown v. Clark, 102 Texas, 323.
Afflrred.

COX v. WOOD, COMMANDANT OF CAMP FUN9TON, IN THE, STATE OF KANSAS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 833.

Argued April 17, 18, 1918-Decided May 6,1918.

Congress may conscript for military duty in a foreign country; the
militia clause is nbfo a limitation upon the war power. "Selective
Draft Law Cases, 245 U. S. 366, followed:
Passages in appellant's brief are found scandalous and impertinent,

but it is deemed unnecessary to strike them from the files.
Affirmed.
*THE

case is'stated in the opini on.

Mr. Hannis Taylor, with whom Mr. Joseph E .Black
was on the briefs, for appellant.
The SQticitor General for appellee.
MR. CQiEF JUSTICE, WHITE

delivered the 6pinion of

the court.
The appellant, conformably to the Seldctive Draft Law
of May 18, 1917, c. 15, 40 Stat. 76, was called to compulsory military, duty and in December,' 1917, was en-

.OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

'gaged in performing it at Camp Funston,'Kansas. On
the third of that month he petitioned for a writ of habeas
corpus to be directed to the general commanding the camp
to discharge him from further service. The ground of
the'petition was that, although, Congress had the power
,to call the citizens of the United States, the national
militia, to compulsory service in virtue of the militia
clause of the Constitution (Article I, ยง 8), that power. was
limited to the character of services specified in the militia
clause, viz: "To execute the laws of the Union, suppress
insurrections and repel, invasions." Further alleging
that it had been officially declared that the call to service
for which the draft had been made under the act was
avowedly for the purpose of military duty in a foreign
country, it was charged that the call was illegal and the
right to the writ existed. Before the allowance of a rule
on the petition, through the United States district attorney, the general who was namedl as respondent in the
petition mored to dismiss because the facts alleged constituted no.ground forAhe relief which was prayed and
hence, as a return stating such facts would requre a
discharge of tl~e rule for habeas corpus if issued; none
should be ordered.* Qn the 20th of December the matter
was submitted by consent .of the United States- district
attorney, and the petitioner to the court for its action
upon the petition and tt.e motion to dismiss. On the 4th
of January, 1918, the court sustained the .motion of the
district attorney and dismissed ..the .petition. In the
opinion by which this. conclusion was 'sustained it was
pointed out, conformably to the statement which we have.
made .concerning the petition, that the "'petitioner, aftey
affi
g the validity of said C6ncription. Act of May 18,
1917; -pleads whathe calls his constitutional immunity
from military service beyond the territorial limits of the
Ulited States.u.Sch claini of 'constitutonal immunity
'ests upon' ithe contention that no conscription act can be'

COX t. WOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

passed except under that part of ยง 8, Art. I, of the Constitution, which provides that 'The Congress shall have
power .
.
to provide for calling forth the'militia
to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections
and repel invasions' ... ." Onthe day the juidg
ment was rendered, January 4th, an appeal to this court
was prayed and allowed, the assignments of error then
made for that purpose reasserting the want of power in
Congress to require a citizen to render compulsory military service beyond the territorial limits of the United
States.
When on December 3rd the petition was filed in the.
lower court, various cases calling in question the constitutionality of the Selective Draft Law of May 18, 1917,
were on the docket of this court anud approaching hearing;
and they were argued here on ,December 13th and 14th,
before the decision below was rendered, January 4tb,
sustaining the motion to dismiss. Before that argument,
however, at the request of counsel for the present appellant, permission was given to file a brief in those cases as
a friend of the court and such brief was filed and con-sidered in passing upon the cases which were decided. on
January 7th, 1918. Selective Draft Law Cases, 245 U. S.
366.
Coming to consider the elaborate contentions and
arguments supporting them made in the present case, it
is indisputable that they all rest upon the assumption as
to the exclusive character of the delegation made to
.Congress by the militia clause (Article I, ยง 8) and the
restriction, as to the use of the military force raised under
such delegation, resulting from the provisions in the clause
relied upon, that is, the prohibition of compulsory service
beyond the territorial limits of the United States. 'But
we are of opinion that we are not now called upon to consider these contentions as a matter of original inquiry,
because the fundamental mistake upon which all the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

arguments rest, and the error in the conclusion whichthey
are advanced to sustain, were pointed out and conclusively
established by the decision sustaining the Selective Draft
Law recently announced in the Selective Draft Law Cases,
245 U. S. 366.. This result is apparent since on the face
of -the.Qpinion delivered in those cases the constitutional
power of Congress to compel the military service which
the assailed law commanded was based on the following,
propositions: (a). That the power of Congress to compel .
military servibe and the duty of the citizen- to render it
when called for were derived from the authority given to
Congress by the Constitution to declare war and to raise
armies. (b) That those powers were not qualified or
restricted by the provisions of the militla clause, and,
hence the authority in the. exercise of the war power to"
raise armies and use them when raised was not subject
to limitations as to use of the militia, if any, deduced -from
the militia clause. - And (c) that from these principles it
also fbllows that.the power-to call for military duty-under
the -authority to declare war, and. raise, armies -and the
duty of the citizen to serv6 when called were coterminous
with .the constitutional grant from which the authority
-was derived and knew no limit deduced from-a separate,
and for the purpose of the war power, wholly incidental,
if fiot -irrelevant and subordinate, provision cqnce 'ng
the militia, found in the Constit.ution. Our duty to.affrm
is therefore made clear.
But before so* ordering, we must notice e; suggesiion
made by the-Government that, because of.impertinent
and scandalous passages contained in he bxief, of the
appellant, the brief should be stricken from the files.
Considering the passages referred to and making every
allowance for intensity of zeal and .an extreme of earnestness on the part- of counsel, we are nevertheless constrained to the "conclusion that the passages justify. the
'terms of censure bywhich they are characterized in the

