EXPLORATION CO. v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

EXPLORATION COMPAITY, LIMITED, ET AL. v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 277.

Argued May 1, 1918.-Decided June 10, 1918.

Statutes of limitation upon suits to set aside fraudulent transactions
do not begin to run until discovery of the fraud. Bailey v. Glover,
21 Wall. 342.
This rule applies to the provision of the Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat.
1093, that suits to vacate land patents shall only be brought within
six years after the dates of the issuance of the patents.
235 Fed. Rep. 110, affirmed.

Tins suit was brought in the United States District
Court for the District of Colorado to cancel nine coal land
patents embracing 1120 acres of land in Colorado which,
it was charged, had been procured from the United States
by fraud. A further purpose of the suit was to cancel
deeds of the same land from various persons to one Philip
L. Foster alleged to be in secret trust for the Exploration
Company, a foreign corporation, for whose 'benefit it is
alleged the frauds were committed. Six of the patents
were of date of October 16, 1902, and three of date of
September 6, 1902. The suit was brought March 3, 19il,
about eight and a half years after the dates of the patents,
the bill alleging that the fraud by which the patents were
obtained was self-concealing in its nature, was concealed
from the Government by the wrongdoers and was not
discovered until 1909. The defendants demurred on the
ground that the suit was barred by the statute of limitations, and the demurrer was sustained by the District
Court. 190 Fed. Rep. 405. The Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Eighth Circuit reversed this decision, and the

OCTOBER Trim, 19mT7
Statemeat of the Caae-

2T7 U. S

case was sent back to the District Court, 203 Fed. Rep.
387, After trial a decree. was rendered against the defendants, the present appellants. 225 Fed. Rep. 854.
This decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
235 Fed. Rep. 110, and the case comes here.
The District Court found the following facts:
The Exploration Company, defendant herein, is a
corporation of Great Britain, authorized to purchase,
own, and operate mines, and to purchase and own shares
of stock in mines in all parts of the world. It was the
owner of mines and mining lands in different parts of the
world, and also of shares of stock of corporations engaged
in mining in the United States and other countries. In.
1901, and for several years thereafter, its representative
in this country was Charles A. Molson, to whom it had
executed a general -power of attorney to represent it in all
matters in the United States. The Exploration Company
desired to acquire certain coal lands in the State of Colorado, which were a part of the public domain of the United
States, but was unable to do so because it was a foreign
corporation, and desired more of these coal lands than a
domestic corporation could obtain under the laws of the
United States. It therefore conceived and carried into
effect the f&llowing scheme for the purpose of acquiring
them: Mr. Molson employed one Henry Burrell to obtain
title to the lands. Burrell employed other agents, who
were sent to residents of Colorado, legally entitled to acquire public coal lands from the United States, and induced
them to make entry of such lands as were pointed out to
them by the Exploration Company's agents, and which
were suppdsed to contain valuable veins of coal. A large
number of such entries were made on lands situated in the
counties 'of Gunnison and Delta, the parties having filed
declaratory statements as required by law. Many of these
]ands were abandoned and no patents applied for, but the
filings on the lands herein involved were paid for and

EXPLORATION CO. c. UNITED STATES.
435.

Statement of the Case.

patents therefor secured. Henry Burrell was a witness in
most, if not all, of these entries. The parties who made the
entries were promised the sum of twenty-five dollars for
their services in so doing. Burrell was to pay all fees,
as well as the purchase money, with funds furnished by
the Exploration Company. The entrymen and women
executed deeds of conveyance for their respective tracts
of land and delivered them to Burrell as soon as the final
proofs were made and the money paid by the Exploration
Company's agent to the respective officers of the land
offices within whose jurisdiction the lands were situated.
Henry Burrell caused these deeds to be made to Alexander Burrell, his brother, and Alexander Burrell later conveyed the lands to Albert L. Smith, a resident of Montana,
the only consideration for the conveyance being that
Smith promised to hold them in trust for and to convey
them to any person designated by the agent of the Exploration Company. The agent Charles A. Molson having
died, the Exploration Company appointed Philip L.
Foster to succeed him as its duly authorized general agent
in the United States, and Smith conveyed these lands to
Foster, without any other consideration, who holds the
legal title in secret trust for the Exploration Company.
In 1902 patents to these lands were issued by the United
States, but the fact that they were secured by false affidavits, and not for the benefit of the entrymen and women,
but for the sole benefit of the Exploration Company, who
in reality paid the Government the purchase money, was
kept secret, and did not become known to any of the
officers of the Government, nor did any facts become
known to them which could arouse the suspicion of one
reasonably diligent that the patents had been obtained
by false affidavits for the sole benefit of the Exploration
Cdmpany until 1909, more than six years after issuance
of the patents, aid then it only became known to the
officers of the Government by reason of the fact that a

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Statement of the Case.

247 U. S.

Utah corporation had acquired a great many of the public
coal lands in the same manner that these lands were obtained, and this being discovered in 1909, the Secretary
of the Interior directed in that year an examination of all
coal-land entries made in the States of Utah and Colorado.
The facts were for the first time discovered in this investigation. There was nothing in the records, or on file in
the General Land Office of the United States or the Department of the Interior, which could possibly have
aroused a suspicion that these lands had been obtained
for the sole benefit of the Exploration Company until the
reports of the special agehlts of the General Land Office
were made in the latter part of 1909. As soon as the facts
were ascertained, the Secretary of the Interior transmitted them to the Department of Justice, with the request to institute suits to set aside the patents to the lands,
and this suit was accordingly instituted on March 3, 1911,
several months less than two years after the discovery of
the alleged fraudulent acts.
The District Court found that the defendants did not
actively conceal the facts which constitute fraud in this case
by enjoining silence on the entrymen and patentees, or by
directing them or the agents who acted for the Company to
refuse to give any information relating to the entries, if
asked by the officers of the Government, but were guilty
of-a passive concealment. When the investigation was
made by the agents of the General Land Office, in 1909, in
relation to these entries, the patentees, as well as the
Company's agents stated the facts truthfully, but until
that time the fact that the entries were all made for the
benefit of the Exploration Company, and that the legal
title held by the defendant Foster was for the benefit of
the Company, was concealed. There were no facts or
circumstances within the knowledge of any official of .the
Government prior to the investigation in 1909 which could
arouse even a bare suspicion that the entries were made in

EXPLORATION CO. r. UNITED STATES.
435.

439

Argument for Appellants.

the manner hereinbefore described and for the benefit of
the Exploration Company.
Mr. Henry McAllister, Jr., with whom Mr. George E.
Tralles was on the brief, for appellants:I
The history of this act (and the associated Act of 1896)
indicates that it was intended to include patents secured
through fraud, which might be actively concealed and
which naturally would be passively concealed; and the
failure of Congress to insert any excepting clause covering
cases of concealed or unknown fraud indicates that no
such exception was intended.
The statute means what it in plain terms says. Construing it this court has held that the laps of six years
from. "the date of the issuance" of the patent, without
suit, takes away the right as well as the remedy; even void
patents are thereby forever validated; a fortiori, patents
merely voidable because of fraud can never thereafter
be challenged. The only open question is whether the
land was public land of the.United'States subject to sale
and conveyance through the land department at the time
the patent issued. United States v. Winona R. R. Co., 165
U. S. 463, 476; United States v. Chandler-Dunbar Co.,
209 U. S. 477; Louisiana v. Garfield, 211 U. S. 70; Burke
v. Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 234 U. S. 669, 693; Linn &
Lane Timber Co. v. United States,.236 U. S. 574, 578; Hoglund v. Lane, 44 App. D.'C. 310, s. c., 244 U. S. 174, 177.
The principle of Bailey v. Glover, 21 Wall. 342, and
kindred cases, to the effect that, where the statute prescribes a limit after "the cause of action accrues" for the
institution of the suit, time does not begin to run until the
discovery of the fraud, particularly concealed fraud,
is based on the theory that until such discovery the
cause of action does not accrue. This court and the lower
Counseli on both sides, referred to the legislative history of the act
under construction and that of March 2, 1896, 29 Stat. 42.

OCTOBER TERM. 1917.

Argument for Appellants.

247 U. S.

federal courts have so held, and it is evidenced by statutory enactments. The principle does not apply to statutes
such as the one now in question. The .English cases are
predicated upon the fact that Statute 21 James I applied
solely to actions at law, and therefore the chancery courts
might ingraft exceptions in equity cases. Bond v. Hopkins, 1 Sch, & Lef. 413, 428, 431; Hovenden v. Lord Annes-.
ley, 2 Sch. & Lef. 607, 630; EcclesiasticalCommissioners v.
Northeastern Ry. Co., L. R.., Ch. Div., vol. 4, 845, 859;
Kane v. Bloodgood, 7 John. Ch. 88, 113. Of course, the
statute now before us, by its very terms, affects suits in
equity, because none other than an equity proceeding
could be invoked for the purpose of annulling a patent.
Furthermore, it is exclusively confined to "suits by the
United States." The "cause-of action does not accrue
until the discovery of the fraud," is the principle upon
which the federal courts predicate their construction of
the ordinary statute of limitations. Bailey v. Glover,
supra; Hovenden v. Lord Annesley, supra, 634; Sherwood
v. Sutton, 5 Mason, 143; Carr v. Hilton, 1 Curtis, 230;
Norris v. Haggin, 28 Fed. Rep. 275; Kirby v. Lake Shore
R. R. Co., 120 U. S. 130, 138; Goodridge v. Union Pacific
Ry. Co., 35 Fed. Rep. 35, 37; First Massachusetts Turnpike Corp. v. Field, 3 Massachusetts, 201, 207.
In the light of these decisions, there is no merit in the
contention that no distinction can be made between a
limitation dating from the accrual of the'cause of action
and one dating from the issuance of the patent. The view
so asserted seems to be that both limitations are identical,
as both starting points are the same. This assumption
of identity of the initial dates rejects the only ground
upon which Bailey v. G/over and other similar cases can
be logically sustained, and indicates that the courts
below must have taken those cases as authority for the
arbitrary suspension of the operation of an unambiguous
statute. While, in technical strictness, both starting

EXPLORATION CO. L'. UNITED STATES.
435.

441

Argument for Appellants.

points are probably the same, the fact remains that the
courts have not considered them to be the same but have
held the "date of the accrual of the cause of action" to
be dependent upon when that cause was discovered. This
is not illogical and does no violence to the language of the
statute involved in Bailey v. Glover. But it is not logical
or fairly possible to say in our case that the date of the
discovery of the fraud is the date of the 'passage of this
act" or the date of the "issuance of such patent."
This same principle is fortified by many statutes, which,
adopting it, have provided that in the case of fraud "the
cause of action shall not be deemed to have accrued until
the discovery thereof."
The preceding discussion demonstrates that the application of the "equitable principle" to statutes such as the
one involved in Bailey v. Glover is not the creation of a,
-judicial exception from the terms of the statute-it is
merely by way of judicial interpretation.
The principle does not apply to a statute such as the one
in question, where -the language is not only explicit but
inflexible. Pickett v. McGavick, Fed. Cas. No. 11126;
In re Brown, Fed. Cas. No. 1983; Matter of Herzig, 15 Abb.
New Cases, 179; Mall & Co. v. Ullrich, 37 Fed. Rep. 653;
Kinder v. Scharff, 231 U. S. 517, 521.
The provision in the statute relative t6'patents issued
before its passage makes it impossible, in such instances,
to apply the argument that a statute of limitations may
run in certain cases from the discovery of the fraud. The
same construction must le given to the entire statute.
Congress was presumptively aware of the rulings that
the "cause of action does not accrue until the discovery
of the fraud"; and in selecting another and inflexible
date from which to measure the period of limitation intended to depart from this principle.
The equitable principles announced in Bailey v. Glover
related solely to statutes affecting private litigants. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for the United States.

247 U. S.

Acts of 1891 and 1896 created self-imposed barriers
against :suits by the Government only, respecting which
the equitable rule now invoked had never been, and
cannot be, applied. The statutes neither continued nor
repealed any such rule because none had ever existed.
The cause of action was not concealed.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Kearful for the United
States:
When~the object of a suit is to obtain relief against a
fraud, concealment of the cause of action by the wrongdoer suspends the bar of the statute. This is an old and
familiar rule of law and equity, as binding on the courts
of the jurisdictions in which it. prevails as any statute
ever enacted by a legislative body.. It is applied in mitigation of the strict letter to the limitation statute as if it
were written there in the form of an exception to its general language. The reason of the rule is that statutes of
limitation are -designed to prevent the wrongful assertion
of rights after the evidence to repel them has been impaired
by lapse of time, and therefore it could never have been
intended by any general words of limitation to provide an
instrument for the encouragement and promotion of
wrong. Counsel assert that the rule has never been applied in courts of law unless the statute under consideration cntained an express exception of concealed fraud,
and that it has only been applied in courts of equity in the
absence of such exception where the statute related solely
to actions at,law. Hence, it is argued, where the statute
contains no such exception, and expressly bars suits in
equity, the rule is inadmissible. The correctness of their
premise is the vital point of this case. The exact point
was carefully examined and determined by this court in
Bailey v.G/over, 21 Wall. 342, which has been cited often
since and never questioned. Gifford v. Helms, 98 U. S..
248, 252; Upton v. McLaghlin, 105 U. S.640, 642; Rosen-

EXPLORATION CO. r. UNITED STATES.
435.

443

Argument for the United States.

thal v. Walker, 111 U. S. 185, 190; Traer v. Clews, 115
U. S. 528, 537; Kirby v. Lake Shore, etc., Railroad, 120
U. S.130, 136; Avery v. Cleary, 132 U. S. 604, 609; Pearsall
v. Smith, 149 U. S. 231, 236; Kinder v. Scharff, 231 U. S.
517, 521.
The rule of Bailey v. Glover has been applied to -the
statute now under consideration, upon facts similar, to
those of the case at bar, in Linn & Lane Timber Co. v.
United States, 196 Fed. Rep. 593; 203 Fed. Rep. -394, affirmed on another point, 236 U. S. 574; United States v.
Puget Sound Co., 215 Fed. Rep. 436; United States v.
Southern Pacifi Co., 225 Fed. Rep. 197; United States v.
Booth-Kelly Lumber Co., 246 Fed. Rep. 970. See also
State v. Stone Cattle Cd., 66 Texas, 363, where the rule of
Bailey v. Glover, was applied to a similar statute upon a
state of facts like the present.
The English cases were examined in Bailey v. Glover.
Previously, in 1828 Mr. Justice Story in the law action
of Sherwood v. Sutton, 5 Mason, 143, had reviewed them
exhaustively and demonstrated that in England the exception was allowed in equit.- both in cases where the
limitation act was applicable by analogy merely and in
those of concurrent juris'diction, where the statute bound
courts of law and equity alike; and not only in equity but
also by the courts of law, without dissent. For a full discussion of the early English and -American decisions,
leading to the same result, see Angell on Limitations, 6th
ed., §§ 183-186, which was written prior to Bailey v.
Glover. See also Bank v. Fairbank, 49 N. H. 131, 141;
Way v. Cutting, 20 N. H. 187, 190-194; Bowman v. Sanborn, 18 N. H. 205,208. The statement of Vice.Chancellor
Malins in Ecclesiastical Commissioners v. Northeastern
Ry. Co., L. R., 4 Ch.Div. 845, 859, is true, if at all, only
with respect to such equitable claims and titles as were
not also cognizable in courts of law. It was not pertinent
to the case before him, and was later, disapproved by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Argument for the United States.

247 U. S.

Privy Council. Bulli Coal Mining Co. v. Osborne [1899],
A. C. 351, 362.
There is nothing in Bailey v. Glover to indicate that a
period running from the time the cause of action accrued
was considered any less definite or more susceptible of
interpretation than one running from the date of a designated transaction. On the contrary, the court very plainly
regarded the statute as precisely like those dealt with in
.the cases which it cited. The EnglF-h statute of 21 James
I, c. 16, in the application of which the rule originated,
concededly did not employ such language, and "it is to
be remembered," as Mr. Justice Story said in Sherwood
v. Sutton, 5 Mason, 143, 153, "that most if not all the
statutes of limitations existing [in 1828] in. the several
States of this Union have borrowed the language of the
statute of 21 of James." It was upon the authorities
applying the rule to those statutes that the court relied in
Bailey v. Glover. See also Kirby v. Lake Shore Railroad,
120 U. S. 130; Greenwald v. Appell, 17 Fed. Rep. 140,
141; Linn & Lane Timber Co. v. United States, 196 Fed.
Rep. 593, 599;' United States v. Southern Pacific Co., 225
Fed. Rep. 197, 202; State v. Stone Cattle Co., 66 Texas,
363; State v. Wichita Land & Cattle Co., 73 Texas, 450;
Wichita Land & Cattle Co. v. State, 80 Texas, 684; Johnston v. Roe, 1 Fed. Rep. 692, 694; Eddy v. Eddy, 168 Fed.
Rep. 590; Bank v. Fairbank, 49 N. H. 131; Newberry v.
Wilkinson, 199 Fed. Rep. 673, 682-686.
The fact that the rule of Bailey v. Glover has been very
generally adopted by statute in the States, proves only
the solid sense and natural justice of the rule. The effect
of those statutes is practically to overrule the decisions
which were disapproved in Bailey v. Glover and to make
the rule of that case universal in its application. State v.
Stone Cattle Co., 66 Texas, 363, 367; Bank v. Fairbank,
49 N. H. 131, 141.
The Act of 1896 concerned only patents "erroneously

EXPLORATION CO. v. UNITED STATES.

435.

Opinion of the Court.

issued" under railroad and wagon road grants, and the
committee report which accompanied that act shows that
the Act of 1891 grew out of the confusion resulting from the
administration of railroad grants. But even if it appeared
that Congress intended to deal specifically with cases of
fraud in the acquisition of coal lands by the use of dumnmy
entrymen, yet, as said in State v. Stone Cattle Co., 66 Texas,
363, 367: " It could scarcely have been intended that the
fraudulent purchaser should reap a benefit from an aggravation of his offense by the fraudulent conceaiment."
The greater liability of the Government to fraudulent
imposition is all the more reason why it should have the
benefit of this "universally implied" qualification of the
broad language of the statute.
The Government may receive the notice through its
proper officer, like a corporation. See People v. Blankenship, 52 California, 619; State v. Giles, 52 Indiana, 356;
Stat v. Furlong, 60 Mississippi, 839; State v. Warner
Valley Stock Co., 56 Oregon, 283, 304; State v. Wichita
Laid & Cattle Co., 73 Texas, 450.
There were affirmative acts of concealment; but it is
enough that the fraud was such as to conceal itself.
MR. JusTicE DAY, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals found that the evidence
fully supported the findings of the trial court. We find no
occasion to disturb the findings of fact by two courts.
The question presented for our consideration is whether'
the suit was barred by the statute of limitations under.
the Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1093, which provides:
" That suits by the United States to vacate and annul any
patent heretofore issued shall only be brought within five
years from the passage of this act, and suits to vacate and
annul patents hereafter issued shall only be brought within
six years after the date of the issuance of such patents."

OCTOBER. TERtM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

As averred in 'the bill, and found by the courts, the
frauds were concealed-until after six years had elapsed
from the issuance of the patents-" After it was supposed

the statute of limitations had barred any action, the
participants in the fraud talked very freely, telling the
truth when it was thought it would do no harm." It is
the contention of the appellants that the statute was intended to bar all actions after six years from the date of
the issuance of the patent, that if fo- six years the Government has failed to discover the fraud, no matter what
its diligence in that respect may be, its action against
the guilty parties is forever barred and theymay hold in
security the lands thus obtained by grant from the United
States by means of fraud perpetrated in defiance of its
laws enacted, for the disposition of the public domain.
We are unable to agree with this contention. We think
the true rule is established in federal jurisprudence by
the decision of this court in Bailey v. Glover, 21 Wall. 342.
In that case a question was presented under the Bankruptcy Act of 1867, which provided that no suit at law or
in equity should be maintained by or against an assignee
in bankruptcy, or by or against anyr person claiming an
adverse interest, touching the property or rights of
property of the bankrupt, in any court whatever, unless
the same should be brought within two years from the
time the cause of action accrued for' or against- the assignee. The action was brought to set aside a conveyance
,on the ground of fraud. Among other things it was
charied.that the bankrupt, his wife, son and father-in-law
being defendants in the case, kept secret their fraudulent
acts, and endeavored'to conceal them from the knowledge
both bf the assignee and of:Winston & Company,-a creditor
proving a debt, whereby both were prevented from obtaining any sufficient knowledge or information thereof until
within the previous two years, and that even up to the
time suit was instituted they had not been able to obtain

EXPLORATION CO. v. UNITED STATES.
43.

QTinion of the Court.

full and particular information as to the fraudulent
disposition made by the bankrupt of -a large part of his
property. A general demurrer was filed to the bill on the
ground that the suit was mot brought within two years as
required by the statute. It is thus apparent that no
attempt was made to prosecute the action within two
years from the time the same accrued. It was contended
that the statute was imperative, that it made no exceptions, and that the action was consequently barred by
limitation. This court, after a full "review of decisions
English and American, decided that, notwithstanding
the positive terms of, the statute, it did not begin
to run until after the discovery of the fraud. In the
course of the opinion Mr. Justice Miller said: "They
[statutes of limitation] were enacted to prevent frauds;
to prevent parties from asserting rights after the lapse
of time had destroyed or impaired the evidence which
would show that such rights never existed, or had been
satisfied, transferred, or extinguished, if they ever did
exist. To hold that by concealing a fraud, or by committing a fraud in a mauner that it concealed itself until
such time as the party committing the fraud could plead
the statute of limitations to protect it, is to make the
law which was designed to prevent fraud the means by
which it is made successful and secure."
. It will be observed in that statute, as in the one
now
under consideration,. there was no provision that the
cause of action should not be deemed to have accrued
until the discovery of the fraud. But it was held that
for the purpose of. such statutes the cause of action did
not accru6 until the,adicovery of the fraud; that such was
the undisputed doctrine of courts of equity, and-that the
weight of authority, English and American, applied the
same rule to actions at law.
Among other cases cited by Mr. Justice Miller, is the
decision of Mr. Justice Story at the Circuit in, Sherwood

448

OCTOBEI

TERM, 1917.

Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

v. Sutton, 5 Mason, 143, s. c., 21 Fed. Cas. No. 12,782, p.
.1303. That case involved a statute of the State of New
Hampshire which provided that actions for fraud and
deceit should be brought within six years. It contained
-no exception as to actions founded on fraud where the
same had been concealed during the period of limitation,
and the question was whether such exception was implied.
The cases were very fully reviewed by Mr. Justice Story,
and, in holding that the statute did not begin to run
until the discovery of the fraud, he said (p. 1307):
"What then, is the reason, upon which this exception
has been established? It is, that every statute is to be
expounded reasonably, so as to-suppress, and not to extend, the mischiefs, which it was designed to cure. The
statute of limitations was mainly intended to suppress
fraud, by preventing fraudulent and unjust claims from
starting up at great distances of time, when the evidence
might no longer be within the reach of the other party,
by which they could be repelled. It ought not, then, to
be so :construed, as to become an instrument to encourage fraud, if it admits of any other reasonable inter.pretation; and cases of fraud, therefore, form an implied
exception, to be acted upon by courts, of law and equity,
according to the nature of their respective jurisdictions.
Such, it seems to me, is the reason, on whIch the exception
is built, and not merely, that there is an equity binding
upon the. conscience of the party, which the statute does
.not reach or control."
Bailey v. Glover has never been overruled nor modified
'in this court and has been approved and followed. Rosen,
thal v. Walker, 111 U. S. 185; 190; Traer v. Clews, 115
U. S. 528, 537, 538; Kirby v. Lake Shore & Michigan South,ern Railroad, 120 U. S. 130, 136; Avery v. Cleary, 132 U. S.
604, 609. It was also applied in the Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit in the case of Linn & Lane Timber Co.
v. United States, 196 Fed. Rep. 593; 203 Fed. Rep. .394.

EXPLORATION CO. v. UNITED STATES.
435.

449

Opinion of the Court.

It is true that Mr. Justice Brewer, in delivering the
opinion of the court in United States v. Winona & St.
Peter R. R. Co., 165 U. S. 463, 476, said that no matter
what the mistake or error of the Land Department was,
or what the frauds of the patentee, the patent would become conclusive as a transfer of title after the lapse of
six years. But the learned Justice said in the same opinion
that this limitation could not be availed of because the
suit was commenced before the expiration of the time
prescribed, and that it was referred to as showing the
purpose of Congress to uphold titles arising under certification or patent after the lapse of a certain time. It
therefore appears that the question was not involved in
that case: Nor does it contain any discussion of the
doctrine previously laid down in Bailey v.*Glover, supra.
In United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 209 U. S. 447,
cited by appellants, no question was made as to the effect
of concealment of fraud until after the running of the
statute. The same is true of Louisiana v. Garfield, 211
U. S. 70, also relied upon by appellants.
When Congress passed the act in question the rule of
Bailey v. Glover was the established doctrine of this court.
It was presumably enacted with the ruling of that case in
mind. We cannot believe that Congress intended to
give immunity to those who for the period named in the
statute might be able to conceal their fraudulent action
from the knowledge of the agents of the Government. We
are aware of no good reason why the rule, now almost universal, that statutes of limitations upon suits to set aside
fraudulent transactions shall not 'begin to run until the
discovery of the fraud, should not apply in favor of*the
Government as well as a private individual. It is not
our belief that Congress intended that the Government
should be deprived of title topublic lands by those who
added to the fraud by which they were obtained, artifices
which enabled them to conceal the fraudulent manner

