OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
-Syllabus.

TOLEDO

NEWSPAPER COMPANY
UNITED STATES.

247 U. S.

ET AL. v.

ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.-

No. 371.

Argued March 7, 8, 1918.-Decided June 10, 1918.

A summary conviction for, criminal contempt is not within the jurisdiction of this court by writ of error but reviewable by certiorari.
Judicial Code, § 268 (Act of March 2, 1831), is merely declaratory
of the inherent power-of the federal courts to punish summarily for
contempt, and, in providing that the power "shall not be construed
to extend-to any cases except the misbehavior of any personin their
presence, or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration' of
justice," does no more than express a limitation imposed by the Constitution. The power, as in the case of the legislature (Marshall v.
Gordon, 243 U. S. 521), is essentially one ofrself-preservation.
The test of the power is in the character of the acts in question: when
their direct tendency is to prevent or obstruct the free and unprejudiced exercise of the judicial power, they are subject to be restrained
through summary contempt proceedings.
Newspaper publications, concerning injunction proceedings pending in
the District Court, and tending in the circumstances to create the
impression that a particular decision would evoke public suspicion
of the judge's integrity or fairness and bring him into public odium
and would be met by public resistance, and tending in the circumstances to provoke such resistance in fact, held, contemptuous,
rendering the company owning the paper and its editor subject to
summary conviction and punishment.
Such wrongful publications are not within the "freedom of the press;"
nor does the Act of 1831, supra, Jud. Code, § 268, intend to sanction
them.
As it is the reasonable tendency of such publications that determines
their contemptuous character, it is not material that they were not
circulated in the court room or seen by the judge or that they did
not influence his mind.
In determining whether there was any evidence to justify attributing
such a tendency to the publications in question, this court considers
the evidentiary facts found by the District Court only so far as to

TOLEDO NEWSPAPER CO. .. UNITED STATES.
402.

403

Argument for Petitioners.

determine whether they have any reasonable tendency to sustain
the general conclusions of fact based upon them by that court and
the Circuit Court of Appeals.
In a summary proceeding for criminal contempt, serble, that a single
penalty based upon a conviction under all of several distinct charges
in the information 'cannot be upheld unless all of the charges are
-

sustained by thq!facts.

But where the Circuit Court of Appeals, upon concluding that the
cpnvictioA was justified under one count and the facts relative
thereto, Laffirmed the District Court without considering other counts
ubn which the punishment was also based, this court examined the
findings as to all the counts, and, holding them sufficient, affirmed
the judgment.
237 Fed. Rep. 986, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, with whom Mr. Charles S.
Northup, Mr. Jay W. Curs and Mr. Joseph S. Graydon.
were on the brief, for petitioners:
The power of the District Courts to punish summarily
for contempt has been limited by Congress (Const., Art.
III, § 1, Art. I, § 8), byothe Act of March 2, 1831, Rev.
Stats., § 725, Jud. Code, § 268, so that it cannot apply
to newspaper comments and criticisms concerning pending
cases which do not amount to misbehavior of any person
in the presence of such courts or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice. In this case it was
neither alleged, proved nor found that any of the publications complained of was brought into the court room or
court building or read by the District Judge.
Prior to the impeachment of Judge Peck, whose acquittal was followed by this act, the question of the power
of the courts in this regard does not appear to have been
agitated except in the State of -Pennsylvania. Two reported cases (Respublica v. Oswald, 1 Dall. 318, in the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania ,[1788], and Hollingsworth v. Duane, Fed Cas., No. 6616, in the United States
Circuit Court for Pennsylvania [1801], promulgated the
doctrine that courts in the Urfited States had a common-

OCTC BER TERM, 1917.
'Argument for Petitioners.

247 U. S.

law power to punish in such cases, and held that the constitutional guarantee of trial by jury had no application.
The judges erroneously supposed that, by the common
law, courts of record in England possessed this power,
whereas in truth it had never been so held except as to the
courts constituting the aula regis, and in respect to them
on the theory that the sovereign personally dispensed
justice. Reg. v. Lefroy, L. R., 8 Q. B. 134; Oswald on
Contempt, 3d ed., p. 3; 3 Holdsworth, History English
Law, p. 312. The Oswald Case and Respulica v. Passmore, 3 Yeates, 441 (1804) gave rise eventually to an act
of the Pennsylvania legislature; passed in 1809, which
limited the power to cases of official misconduct of court
officers, disobedience by officers, parties, jurors or witnesses
of lawful process, and "misbehavior of any person in the"
presence of the court, thereby obstructing the administration of justice," besides providing specifically that
publications out of, court should not be made the basis
of summary attachment and punishment. The history
of this Controversy is found in the note to the Oswald Case,
in the report of the Passmore Case, supra, and in "Constructive Contempt" by Judge John L. Thomas.
The immediate occasion of the Act of 1831 was the
impeachment and acquittal in Congress of Judge Peck,
who had assumed to punish summarily for a publication
referring to a case that had terminated. ,But it does not
follow that Congress intended to confine the limitations
of the statute to such cases. It is rather to be presumed
that Congress had in mind the controversy in Pennsylvania, the more so because Mr. Buchanan who was one
of the prosecutors of Peck, and who also reported the bill
for this act, was from that State and undoubtedly was
familiar with the occasion of the Pennsylvania statute
and held strong views on 'the subject. Gales and Seatons
Register of the Debates, 1831, p. 42.
That this meaning of the statute, which seems upon its

TOLEDO NEWSPAPER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
402.

405

Argument for Petitioners.

face to present no ambiguity, was clearly understood at
the time of its enactment is shown by the first decision
under it. Ex parte Poulson, Fed. Cas., No. 11350. See
also the following: United States v. Holmes, Fed. Cas., No.
15853; Ex pare Bradley, 7 Wall. 364; Curtis, Jurisdiction
of the United States Courts, 2d ed., p. 176; Ex parte
Robinson, 19 Wall. 505, 510; McCaully's Case, 25 App.
D. C. 404; In re May, 1 Fed. Rep. 737; Fnited States v.
Anonymous, 21 Fed. Rep. 761, 768; Ex pcrte Schulenburg,
25 Fed. Rep. 211; Savin, Petitioner,131 U. S.267; Cuddy,
Petitioner, 131 U. S. 280; Morse v. Montana Ore Purchasing Co., 105 Fed. Rep. 337; Boyd v. Glucklich, 116
Fed. Rep. 131; Ex parte McLeod, 120 Fed. Rep. 130;
Cuyler v. Atlantic & N. C. R. Co., 131 Fed. Rep. 95;
Myers v. State, 46 Ohio St. 473 (first official syllabus, and
opinion p. 474).
In United States v. Huff, 206 Fed. Rep. 700, the letters
were sent to the judge while the case was pending. In
In re Independent Publishing Co., 228 Fed. Rep. 787;
240 Fed. Rep. 849, the publication was read by the jurors.
United States v. Providence Tribune Co., 241 Fed. Rep.
524, involved an article concerning grand jury proceedings.
Patterson v. Colorado, 205 U. S. 454, merely decided
that the case did not involve a federal question. The Act
of 1831 was not involved or mentioned. And see the dissenting opinions. Eilenbecker v. District Court of Plymouth
County, 134 U. S.31, was also a writ of error to a state
court, involving a proceeding in contempt for wilful
disobedience of an injunction. This court held that the
Fourteenth Amendment did not guarantee a trial by jury
in such a case.
Where the question is, whether a newspaper article
published outside the court constitutes misbehavior so
near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice,
the necessary nearness cannot be imputed in the absence

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Petitioners.

247 U. S.

of such knowledge of the publication by the court or jury
as did or might have obstructed the administration of
justice, as in the Huff and Myers Cases, supra. It may be
conceded that in such cases the "physical or topographical
nearness" of the place where the article is written or
printed becomes immaterial, and it may be that an act
which is in intention and effect contumacious, committed
in the presence of the court, is punishable without regard
to whether it actually obstructs justice. But you cannot
bring a publication outside of court within the terms of
the statute on the theory that its communication to the
court or jury does away with any other physical or topographical nearness required by the statute, and at the
same time dispense -with the essential requirement that
it should actually be brought to the attention of the court
or jury in such manner as to interfere with or obstruct
their deliberations. _ The contempt proceeding was not instituted, nor were
the sentences imposed, for any purpose authorized by § 1
'of the Act of 1831, but for the punishment of past offenses
punishable only by indictment under § 2. Marshall v.
Gordon, 243 U. S. 521, 540, 542.
On the strict view of this power in England and its
common-law limitations: McLeod v. St. Aubyn, [1899]'
A. C. 549; 2 Bac. Abr., 7th ed., p..399; 3 Encyc. of Laws
of England, p. 500, "Contempt of Coinrt;" In re Clements,
[1876] 46 L. J. Ch. 375, 385; Hunt v., Clarke, [1899], 37
W. R. 724, 725.
The alleged incitement to disregard the court's order
stands on the same ground as if it were made orally in a
speech away from the presence of the court. Such incitement is not the misbehavior in court or near thereto that
the statute deals with. The word "misbehavior" generally, and especially as used in the Act of 1831, connotes
action or deportment in respect to the presence of another,
and implies such presence. The actual resistance or-ob-

TOLEDO NEWSPAPER CO. r. UNITED STATES.
402.

407

Argument for the United States.

struction to the execution of any writ or order of the
court, committed out of the presence of the court, is
punishable by indictment under § 2 of the Act of 1831.
Hillmon v. Mutual Life Jnsurance Co., 79 Fed. Rep. 749;
UnitedStates v. Carroll,147 Fed. Rep. 947.
The Court of Appeals erred in holding that it was immaterial whether the record showed error as to the second
and third counts. Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co.,
221 U. S. 440; Claassenv. United States, 142 U. S. 140, distinguished.
Mr. William L. Day and Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Fitts for the United States:
Error will not lie to review a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals in a contempt proceeding.
Parties have a constitutional right to have their causes
tried fairly by an impartial court uninfluenced by newspaper dictation or popular clamor. The courts below
applied the law of contempt as it is administered in substantially all the state jurisdictions, as it always was and
is now at common law, (Pattersonv. Colorado, 205 U. S.
454, 462; Bishop's New Criminal Law, §§ 259, 260, 261;
Bailey, Habeas Corpus, c. 7; Oswald, Contempt, pp. 91,
92, 97; Rapalje on Contempt, § 56; 9 Cyc. 20), and as it
is now in England, and as it was in the federal jurisdiction prior to 1831 (Hollingsworthv. Duane, Fed. Cas., No.
6616; United States v. Hudson, 7 Cranch, 32). See Lord
Chancellor Hardwicke in 2 Atkyns, 471. Likewise, 2
Vesey, 520; 1 P. Wins. 675; 4 Blackstone Com. 282; 2
Hawkins, Pleas of the Crown, 230; 29 Am. Law Reg. 82.
The language employed need not have brought the
court into disfavor or endangered proper respect, or actually embarrassed or impeded the progress of the proceedings or the administration of justice therein, if it was of a
character calculated to produce such effects, in a case
pending.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for the United States.

247 U. S.

The Act o'1831 was adopted by Virginia and by Ohio
soon after its passage, and in both States received the
same construction as was given it by the courts below.
Carter v. Commonwealth, 96 Virginia, 791; Myers v. State,
46 Ohio St. 473; Sieube v. State, 3 Ohio Cr. Ct. -383; 2
0. C. D. 216.
The statute, as its title indicates, is declaratory of the
common law. It did not change the procedure, nor did it
change the class of things punishable -as contempts at
common law. Cuyler v. Atlantic & N. C. R. Co., 131 Fed.
Rep. 95, 97.
A statute should not be held to limit powers inherently
possessed .by courts and necessary to their protection,
unless such an intention is clearly and explicitly stated.
The tendency of the publication or act to interfere
with the administration of the law is enough. Patterson
v. Colorado, 205 U. S.454, 463; In re Independent Publishing Co., 240 Fed. Rep. 849; United States v. Protidence
Tribune Co., 241 Fed. Rep. 524; Gorham Mfg. Co. v.
Emery-Bird-Thayer Dry Goods Co., 92 Fed. Rep. 774.
It has never been held, except for the language of Justice
Baldwin in In re Poulson, Fed. Cas., No. 11350, that the
statute was intended as a limitation upon the inherent
power of a federal court to punish as contemptuous the
publication of offensive news articles during the pendency of the litigation. Cuyler v. Atlantic & N. C. R. Co.,
supra, merely follows that case, and what was said on this
subject in In re May, 1 Fed. Rep. 737, 742, and Morse v
Montana Ore PurchasingCo., 105 Fed. Rep. 337, is dictum.
The statute is too -plain to permit resort to its legislative history. But, if this were otherwise, a careful examination, as shown by the opinion of the District Court
in the present case, serves rather to prove a purpose not
to exempt any class of persons than a purpose to establish the immunity claimed. See Carterv. Commonwealth,
supra. The act followed proceedings taken in Congress

TOLEDO NEWSPAPER CO. r. UNITED STATES. 409
402.

Argument for the United. States.

against Judge Peck because he had inflicted punishment
for a publication made after the case to which it referred
had terminated. The views expressed in the Poulson Case
are based on a misunderstandiig of the controversy
thus engendered, and are wholly unsound-as to which
see: 1 Kent Com., 301, note; State v. Galloway, .5 Cold.
(Tenn.) 326, 330; Myers v. State, supra.
Comparison of this act with the earlier one of Pennsylvania demonstrates that Congress, while in part it adopted
the substance and phraseology of the state law, took pains
to eliminate the express provision granting immunity to
publications out of court and added the new provision for
punishing misbehavior beyond the presence of the court,
yet "so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of
justice," thus evincing a clear intent not to give immunity
to newspapers.
The tendency of the act complained of to affect a pending cause is the test under this statute. Aside -from the
Poulson Case, and dicta in the Morse and May Cases,
supra, Ex pare Schulenburg, 25 Fed. Rep. 211, and Ex
parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505, this proposition is sustained
in principle by all the decisions.' Savin, Petitioner, 131
U. S. 267; Sharon v. Hill, 24 Fed. Rep. 726; Cuddy, Petitioner, 131 U. S. 280; McCaully's Case, 25 App. D. C.
404; 198 U. S. 582, 586; United States v. Anonymous, 21
'Fed. Rep. 761; In re Brule, 71 Fed. Rep. 943; Ex parte
McLeod, 120 Fed. Rep. 130; United States v. Carroll,
147 Fed. Rep. 947; United States v. Zavelo, 177 Fed. Rep.
536; Kirk. v. United States, 192 Fed. Rep. 273; In re
Steiner, 195 Fed. Rep. 299, 303; United States v. Huff,
206 Fed. Rep. 700; ONeal v. United-States, 190 U. S. 36.
The question as to press c6mments is answered by the
state courts in Myers v. State, supra; Tate v. State, 132
Tennessee, 131; People v. Wilson, 64 Illinois, 195," 211;
Telegram Newspaper Co. -v. Commonwealth, 172 .Massackusetts,. 294; and State v. Howell, 80 Connecticut, 668.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

The essence of the offense is conduct reasonably calculated to produce an atmosphere of prejudice where the
pending case is being tried. State v. Hazeltine, 82 Washington, 81. The liberty of the press does not permit publications respecting pending causes which are reasonably
calculated to interfere with the due administration of
justice. State v. Morrill, 16 Airkansas 384; People v. NewsTimes Publishing Co., 35 Colorado, 253; 205 U. S. 454;
McDougall v. Sheridan, 23 Idaho, 191; State v. Shepherd,
177 Missouri, 205; State v. Rosewater, 60 Nebraska, 438;
Burdett v. Commonwealth, 103 Virginia, 838; -State v.
Hazeltine, supra.
United States v. Huff, and United States v. Anonymous,
supra, discuss the relation to this question of the federal
act. There is no reason why federal courts should not
apply this statute -as state courts apply local statutes of
similar import.
MR. CHmF JusTicE WhiTE delivered the opinion of
the court.
This case is before us on error to review the action of
the court below affirming a judgment of the trial court
holding the, defendants guilty of a summary contempt
and imposing a fine upon them both. There is also pending an application for certiorari made upon the assumption that if jurisdiction on error was wanting the case
involved questions of such importance as to justify our

interposition.
We are of opinion that a motion to dismiss the writ
of error must prevail since it is settled that a' conviction
for a criminal, although summary, contempt is. for the
purposes of our reviewing power a matter of criminal law
not within our jurisdiction on error. Cary Manufacturing
Co. v. Acme Flexible Clasp Co., 187 U. S. 427, 428; O'Neal
v. United States, 190-U. S. 36, 38; Bessette v. W. B. Conkey"

TOLEDO NEWSPAPER CO. r. UNITED STATES. 411
402.

Opinion of the Court.

Co., 194 U. S. 324, 335; In re Merchants' Stock & C-rainCo.,
223 U. S. 639; Gompers v. United States, 233 U. S. 604, 606.
But this does not relieve us from the duty of exerting
jurisdiction, as we are of opinion that the case calls for
the exertion of the 'discretionary power with which we
are vested. The writ of certiorari is therefore granted,
and we proceed to exanine and dispose of the case to the
extent rendered necessary by that conclusion.
The case is this. The Toledo Railways and Light Company in 1913 controlled and operated practically all the
street railways in Toledo. The franchises under which it
did so, however, it* was generally considered, expired on
the 27th of March, 1914. In anticipation of this fact,
negotiations as to the terms upon which they should be
renewed were broached between the city and the company,
and pronounced differences were manifested. This gave
rise to public agitation and discussion over the question
which had become acute in November, 1913.. In that
month, evidently in order to enable the city to secure
from the company such terms of agreement as it might
impose, an ordinance was passed, without giving any
new franchise or in terms making any new contract
with the company, providing that after the 27th of
March, 1914, the assumed day of the expiration of
the franchises, three-cent fares should be charged from
day to day. Complaint, alleging the injustice of this
provision and the wrong which the railroad asserted
would be produced by giving it effect, increased the
agitation.
In January, 1914, creditors of the company filed in the
District Court of the United States their bill against the
company to enjoin it from obeying the ordinance on the
ground that to do so would confiscate the property which
they held in the company and would destroy the franchises
which the. company enjoyed and which, it was asserted,
only expired in the following October. On March 24th

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

the creditors filed a supplemental bill making the city a
party to the suit and asking preliminary and permanent
injunctions against the city. On the same day, the company also filed its bill against the city seeking to restrain
the enforcement of the ordinance both by preliminary
and final injunctions.
At this juncture and before action had been taken
by the court, The Toledo News-Bee, a daily paper, published in Toledo by The Toledo Newspaper Company, began publications adverse to the rights asserted against
the city by the creditors and the railway company and in
no uncertain terms avouched the right of the city to have
enacted the ordinance which the suits assailed and
challenged the right of the court to grant the relief
prayed. On March 30th the court, after hearing on the
applications for preliminary injunctions, denied them on
the ground that the assailed ordinance was not self-enforcing, that it required an application of judicial power
to put .it into effect and that it would be time enough
when the city invoked such relief by such power to assert
by way of defense the matters which were made the basis
of the prayer for affirmative relief in the pending controversies.
In September following, under a new prayer, the court
reconsidered its action and awarded the preliminary
injunction prayed on the ground that as the city had in
the meanwhile treated the ordinance as enforcible without
resort to judicial process and was acting against the
company and the creditors and their alleged rights on
that assumption, the duty was cast upon the court of
protecting such rights pending the decision of the causes.
In the meanwhile, however, the agitation over the questions which the suits involved had unremittingly continued and was beyond doubt fanned by .continuous publications on the subject in the stated newspaper into a
more exaggerated-not to use a stronger word--and.

TOLEDO NEWSPAPER CO. r. UNITED STATES.
402.

413

Opinion of the Court.

vociferous expression which embraced the whole field;'
that is, not only the relative rights of the city and the
corporation, but also, at least by indirection, the duty
and power of the court and. its right to afford any relief
in the matters before it.
Immediately preceding the action of the court taken
on September 12th granting the preliminary injunction,
and while that subject was before it for consideration,
an attachment for contempt was issued against one
Quinivan for words spoken by him at a meeting of a
labor union concerning the court and the matter which
it was then engaged in considering. And a few days
following, on September 15th, a similar process was
issued against the managing editor of the Toledo NewsBee for publications written by him in the paper
concerning the action of the court in the q(uinlivan
case.

On September 29th following, the court directed the
district attorney to present an information for contempt
against the newspaper company and its editor for the
publications which had been made concerning the controversy, and on October 28tb, giving effect to this order,
an information was filed charging the newspaper company and the editor with contempt. The charges were
stated in three counts. The first embraced matters
published during the p'endency of the suit from the time,
March 24th, when the action was taken to make the city
a party and the respective preliminary injunctions were
prayed, up to and including the time when the ultimate
action of the court on the subject in September was taken.
The two other counts related, the one to publications
made atthe time of and concerning the attachment for
contempt against Quinlivan, and the other to publications
concerning the attachmigent 9gainst the managing editor.
The defendants demu'red on -the ground that the information stated no act within the power of the court to

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

punish for contempt, and, on the overruling of the demurrer, they answered, not disputing the publications
charged,' but challenging the innuendoesVb which in the
information they were interpreted and reiterating the
denial of all power in the court to punish. CoMThg to dispose of the information, the court found
both of the defendants guilty under all the counts and
imposed upon both a 'punishment by way of fine. The
court sustained its authority to--so act by an elaborate
opinion which, after stating the evidentiary facts-the
publications and their environment-,: drew from them
ultimate conclusions of fact and held that from such conclusions it clearly resulted that the publications complained of constituted a contempt within the-power of
the court to punish, because, by their terms, they manifestly-tended to interfere with and obstruct the court in
the discharge of its duty in a matter pending before it.
Condensing for the sake of brevity and looking at the
substance of things, these conclusions of the court embraced four grounds: (a) Because, leaving aside the attempted ridicule, not to say vituperation, concerning the
court which was expressly or impliedly contained in the
publications, their manifest purpose was to create the
impression on the mind of the court that it could not
decide in the matter'before it in any but the one way without giving rise to such a state of suspicion as to the integrity or fairness of its purpose and motives as might "engender a shrinking from so doing. (b) Because the publications directly tended to incite to such a condition of
the public mind 'as Would leave no room for doubt that if
the: court , acting according- to its convictions, awarded
relief, it would be subject to, such odium and hatred as to
restrain it from doing so. (c) Because the publications
also obviously were intended to produce the impression
that any order which might be rendered by the court in
the discharge of its duty, if not in accord with the con-

TOLEDO NEWSPAPER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
402.

415

Opinion of the Court.

ceptions which the publications were sustaining, would
be disregarded and cause a shrinking from performing
duty to avoid the turmoil and violence which the publications, it may be only by covert insinuation, but none
the less assuredly, invited. And (d) because the publications were of a character, not merely because of their
intemperance but because of their general tendency, to
produce in the popular mind a condition which would
give rise to a purpose in practice to refuse to respect any
order which the court might render if it conflicted with
the supposed rights of the city espoused by the publications. 220 Fed. Rep. 458.
The affirmance by the court below of the action of the
trial court thus stated, is the matter now before us for
review. That court, not asserting the right or attempting
to exert the power to review the merely -evidentiary facts
found by the trial court, but accepting them, in express
terms sanctioned the inferences of ultimate fact drawn
from them by the trial court. The court said: "The
publications had reference to pending judicial action, and
there is a finding of fact ('as alleged in the information')
that they tended and were intended to provoke public
resistance to an injunctional order, if one should be made,
and there is a finding that they constituted an attempt to
intimidate,-at least unduly to influence,-the district
judge with reference to his decision in the matter pending
before him. That each of these findings is supported by
competent evidence and for that reason binding upon
this court is too clear for dispute; but we may rightly go
further and say that it is difficult to See how any other
findings could have been made." This view, however, was
restricted to the matters embraced by the first count,
since it was decided that it was irrelevant to donsider
whether the same view would 'obtain as to the subjectmatteu of the second and third counts because it -was
held ttit in any event the finding of guilt under the first

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

count was adequate to justify the penalty imposed, thus
-rendering a consideration of the other two counts unnecessary. 237 Fed. Rep.' 986.
Under the case and the action of the courts below
concerning it, nothing further would seem to be required
to establish the correctness of that action, since no other
course, under the statement, is possible compatibly with
the sacred obligation of courts to preserve their right to
discharge their duties free from unlawful and unworthy
influences and, in doing so, if nieed be, to clear from the
pathway leading to the performance of this great duty all
unwarranted attempts to pervert, obstruct or distort
judgment. Nevertheless, in view of the gravity of the
subj'ect, we proceed to consider and dispose of the elaborate arguments pressed to the contrary. They are all
embraced by the three following propositions: first, that
there was a total want of power in the court to treat the
matters charged in the information as a contempt and
punish it accordingly,-as a result of the provisions of §268
of the Judicial Code (embodying the text of the Act of
March 2, 1831, 4 Stat. 487); second, that, irrespective of
the prohibitions of that act, there was a want of power to
abridge the freedom of the press by punishing as for a
summary contempt comments made by a newspaper upon
matters of public concern; and third, that, whatever be
the view of the two former propositions, as there was an
entire absence of proof sustaining the ultimate inferences
of -fact upon which the court based its conclusion, such
conclusion was wholly erroneous as a matter of law.
We dispose of these propositions under separate headings.
1.. Sectio'n 268 of the Judicial Code and its forerunner,
the Act of 1831.
-It is essential to. recall the situation existing at the
time of the adoption of the Act of 1831 in order to elucidate its provisions. In Marshallv. Gordon, 243 U. S. 521,
the power of Congress to summarily punish for contempt

TOLEDO NEWSPAPER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
402.

417

Opifijon of the Court.

came .under consideration and it was there pointed out
that the enlarged legislative power on that subject which
prevailed in England prior to the separation, whether
based upon the commingling of legislative and judicial
authority or upon any other cause, was necessarily in
this country greatly restricted and changed by the effect
of the adoption of the Constitution and the operation of
the division of powers and the guarantees and limitations
which that instrument embodied:
Considering this
condition in the light of the colonial legislation on the
subject and the previous state constitutions, it was
pointed out that it had come to be established, either by
express constitutional or legislative _provisions or by
inevitable implications resting upon the very existence
of government, that, while the limitations as to mode of
accusation of crime and methods of. trial had faundamentally changed the situation which had previously existed,
such change had not deprived the legislative power of
the right, irrespective of its authority by legislation to
provide for the trial and punishment of criminal acts, in
addition to summarily deal by way of contempt proceedings with wrongful acts obstructing the legislative power
in the performance of its duty. This authority, it was
held, was but an incident of the powers conferred, and,
indeed, that its exertion in ultimate analysis was a means
of securing the effective operation of- the constitutional
limitations as to mode of accusation and methods of trial.
It was pointed out that the authority thus recognized
automatically inhered in the government created by the
Constitution, was sanctioned by a long line of judicial
decisions and by state and federal practice, although
the legislative power, doubtless as a mere consequence of
a reminiscence of what had gone before, and momentarily
forgetful of the limitations resulting from the Constitution,
had sometimes exerted authority in excess of that which
it was decided was really possessed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

While the Marshall Case concerned the exercise of
legislative power to deal with contempt, the fundamental
principles which its solution involved are here applicable,
to the extent that .they may not be inapposite because
of the distinction between legislative and judicial power.
Indeed the identity of the constitutional principles
applicable to the two cases, subject to the differences
referred to was pointed out on pages 542 and 543, where
it was said: "So also when the difference between the
judicial and legislative powers are considered. and the
divergent elements which in the nature of things enter
into the determination of what is self-preservation in
the two cases, the same result is established by the statutory -provisions dealing with the judicial authority to
summarily punish for contempt, that is, without resorting to the modes of trial required by .constitutional limitations or otherwise for substantive offenses
under the criminal law. Act of March 2, 1831, 4 Stat.
487.1
The pertinent provision of § 268 of the Judicial Code
is as follows: "The. said courts [United States courts]
shall have power . . .
to punish, by fine or imprisonment; at the discretion of the court, contempts of
their authority: Provided, That such power to punish
for contempts shall not be construed to extend to any
cases except the misbehavior of any person in their presence, or so near thereto as to obstruct the administratiQn
of justice .
Clarified by the matters expounded and the ruling
made in the Marshall Case, there can be no doubt that
the provision conferred no power not already granted
and imposed no limitations not already existing. In other
words, it seived but to plainly mark the boundaries of
the existing authority resulting from and qontrolled by
the grants which the Constitution made and the limitations .which it imposed. And this is not at all modified

TOLEDO NEWSPAPER CO. v.. UNITED STATES. 419
402.

Opinion of the Court.

by conceding that the provision was intended to prevent
the danger, by reminiscence of what had gone before, of
attempts to exercise a power not possessed which, as
pointed out in the Marshall Case, had been sometimes
done in the exercise of legislative power. The provision
therefore, conformably to the whole history of the country, not minimizing the constitutional limitations nor
restricting or qualifying the powers granted, by necessary
implication recognized and sanctioned the existence of
the right of self-preservation, that is, the power to restrain acts tending to obstruct and prevent the untrammeled and unprejudiced exercise of the judicial power
given by summarily treating such acts as a contempt and
punishing accordingly. The test, therefore, is the character of the act done and its direct tendency to prevent
and obstruct the discharge of judicial duty,-a conclusion
which necessarily sustains the view of the statute taken
by the courts below and brings us to the second question,
which is:
2. The asserted inapplicability of the statute.under the
assumption that the- publications complained of related to a
matter of public concern and were safeguarded from being
made the basis of contempt proceedings by the -assuredly
securedfreedom of the press.
We might well pass the proposition by because to state
it is to answer it, since it involves in its very statement
the contention that the freedom of the press is the freedom
to do wrong with impunity and implies the right to frustrate and defeat the discharge of those governmental
duties upon the performance of which the freedom of all,
including that of the press, depends. The safeguarding
and fructification of free and constitutional institutions is
the very basis and mainstay upon which the freedom of
the press rests, and that freedo mi,therefore, does not and
cannot be held to include the right virtually to destroy
such institutions. It suffices to say that, however corn-

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

plete is the right of the press to state public things and
discuss them, that right, as every other right enjoyed in
human society; is subject to the restraints which separate
right, from wrong-doing.
The contention go earnestly pressed, that the express
provision, found in a statute enacted in Pennsylvania in
1809, following impeachment proceedings against certin
judges of that State and dealing with the extent of the
power lo base a contempt proceeding. upon a newspaper
publication, should be by implication read into the Act
of 1831 and-by filtration implied in §-268, Judicial Code,
we think is answered by its mere statement, since, if it
be conceded for argument's sake only that the provision in
the Pennsylvania statute relied upon had the significance
now attributed to it and that the Pennsylvania statute
was the-model of the Act of 1831, the omission from that
act of the provision referred to as it existed in the Pennsylvania 'law is the strongest possible evidence of the
purpose not to enact such'provision. And thus we come
to the third and final-subject, which is:
3. The contention that there was-no evidence whatever to
'justify attributing to the publications the consequence of
obstruction and therefore no legal basis for the conclusion of
guilt and resulting right to impose penalties.
It is to be observed that our power in disposing of this
objection is not to test divergent contentions as to the
weight of the evidence but simply to consider the legal
question whether the evidentiary facts found had any
reasonable tendency to sustain the general conclusions of
fact based upon them by the courts below. Considering
the subject in thisaspect, again we are constrained to
say that the contention on the face of the record is too
plainly devoid of -merit to require any detailed review.
Indeed; we are of opinion that the court below was right
in saying concerning the ultimate conclusions of fact
upon which its actipn was based that it was "difficult

TOLEDO NAWSPAPER CO. v. UNITED STATES. 421
402.

Opinion of the Court.

to see how any other findings could have, been made."
True, it is urged that, although the matters which were
made the basis of the findings were published at the place
where the proceedings were pending and under the circumstances which we have stated in a daily paper having
large circulation, as it was not sbown that they bad been
seen by the presiding judge or had been circulated in the
court room, they did and could form no basis for an inference of guilt. But the situation is controlled by the
reasonable tendencies of the acts done and not by extreme
and substantially impossible assumptions on the subject.
Again, it is said there is no proof that the mind- of the
judge was influenced or his purpose to do his duty obstructed or restrained by the publications and, therefore,
there was no proof tending to showthe wrong complained
of. But here again not the influence upon the mind of
the particular judge is the criterion but the reasonable
tendency of the acts done to influence or bring about the
baleful result is the test. In other words, -having regard
to the powers conferred, to the protection of society, to
the honest and fair administration of justice and to the
evil to come from its obstruction, the wrong depends upon
the tendency of the acts to accomplish this result without reference to the consideration of how far they may
have been without influence in a particular case. The
wrongdoer may not be heard to try the power of the
judge to resist acts of obstruction and wrongdoing by
him committed as a prelude to trial and punishment
for his wrongful acts.
This disposes of the case, for although the court below,
we think mistakenly, considered that it was not under
the duty to determine how far the facts sustained the
chaiges under counts 2 and 3 because the conviction
might be referred wholly to the first count (Gompers v.
Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418, 440), we
are of opinion, after examining the facts as to both of

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
HoLxs, J., dissenting.

247 U. S.

those counts, that they also sustain the conviction-within
the principles which we have just previously stated.
Affirined.
MR. JusTIcE DAY and MR.'JusiicE CLARKE took no
part in the decision of this cause.
MR.JUSTICE HoTEs, dissenting.

-

One of the usual controversies between a street railroad
and the city that it served had been- going on for'years.
and, had culminated in an ordinance, establishing ithree
centVfares that was to go into effect on March 28th, 1914.
In January of that year the people who were operating
the road began a suit for an injunction on the ground that
the ordinance was- confiscatory. The plaintiffs in -error,
a newspaper and its editor, had long been on the popular
side and had-furnished news and comment to sustain it;
and when,-on March 24, a motion was made for a temporary injunction in the-suit, they published a cartoon representing the road as a moribund man in bed with its
friends at the bedside and one of' them- saying- "Guess
we'd better call in Doc'Killits." Thereafter pending the
controversy they published news, "comment and cartoons
as before. The injunction was issued on-September 12.
The- Judge- (Killits) who was referred to took- no steps
until September 29, when he -directed an information to
be filed covering publications from -March 24 through
September 17. This was done on October 28. In December the case was tried summarily without a jury by
the judge who thought- his- authority contemned, and
in the following year he imposed a considerable fine.
The question is whether he acted within his powers under
the statutes of, the United States.
The statute in force at the time of the alleged contempts
confined the power of Courts in cases.-of this sort to where

TOLEDO NEWSPAPER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
402.

423

HoLms,J., dissenting.

there had been "misbehavior of any person in their
presence, or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice." § 268, Jud. Code, Act of March 3,
1911, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1163. Before-the trial took place an
act was passed giving a trial by jury upon demand of the
accused in all but the above mentioned instances. October 15, 1914, c. 323, §§ 22, 24; 38 Stat. 738, 739. In
England, I believe, the usual course is to proceed in the
regular way by indictment. I mention -this fact and the
later statute only for their bearing upon the meaning of
the exception in our law. When it is considered how contrary it is to our practice and ways of thinking for the same
person to be accuser and sole judge in a matter which,
if he be sensitive, may involve strong personal feeling,
I should expect the power to be limited by the necessities
of the case "to insure order and decorum in their presence"
as is stated in Ex parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505. See
Prynne, Plea for the Lords, 309, cited in McIlwain, The
High Court of Parliament and its Supremacy, 191. And
when the words of the statute are read.it seems to me that
the limit is too plain" to be construed away. To my mind
they point and point only to the present protection of the
Court from actual interference, and not to postponed
retribution .for lack of respect for its dignity-not to
moving to vindicate its independence after enduring the
newspaper's attacks for nearly six months as the Court
did in this case. Without invoking the rule of strict
construction I think that "so near as to obstruct" means so
near as actually to obstruct-and not merely near enough
to threaten a possible obstruction. '"So near as to" refers
to an accomplished fact, and the word "misbehavior"
strengthens the construction I adopt, Misbehavior means
something more than adverse comment or disrespect.
But suppose that an imminent possibility of obstruction
is sufficient. Still I think that only immediate and necessary action is contemplated, and-that no case for sum-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
HoLmns, J., dissenting.

247 U. S:

mary proceedings is made out if after the event. publications are called to the attention of the judge that might
have led to an obstruction although they did not. So far
,as appears that is the present case. But I will go a step
farther. The order for the information recites that from
time to time sundry numbers of the paper have come to
the attention of the judge as a daily reader of it, and I
wil assume, from that and the opinion, that he read them'
as they came out, and I will assume further that he was
entitled to rely upon his private knowledge without a
statement in open court. But a judge of the United
States is expected to-be a man of ordinary~firmness of character, and I fid it impossible to believethat such a judge
coul have found in anything that was printed even a
tendency to -prevent his performing his sworn duty.
I am not considering whether there was a technical
contempt at common law but whether what was done
falls within the wods of an act intended and admitted
'to-limit the power of the Courts.
The chief thing done was to print statements of a
widespread public intent to board the cars and refuse to
pay more than thee cents even if the judge condemned
the ordinance, statements favoring the course, if you
like, and mention of the city officials who intended to
back it up. This popular movement was met on the part
of the railroad by directing its conductors not to accept
three cent fares but to carry passengers free who refused
to pay more; so that all danger of violence on that score
was-avoided, even if it was a danger that in any way concerned the -Court., The newspaper further gave lone or
two pr6mature but ultimately correct intimations of what
the judge was going to do, made one mistaken statement
of a. ruling which it criticised indirectly, uttered a few
expressions that implied that the judge did not have the
last word and that no doubt contained innuendoes not
flattering to his personaiity. Later there was an account

TOLEDO NEWSPAPER CO. i. UNITED STATES
S402.

425

HoLmEs, J., dissenting.

of a local socialist meeting at which a member, one Quinlivan, spoke in such a way that the judge attached him
for contempt and thereupon, on the same day that the
decree was entered in the principal case, the paper reported
as the grdunds of the attachment that Quinlivan had
pronounced Judge Killits to have shown from the first
that he was favorable to the railroad, had criticised somewhat ignorantly a ruling said to put the burden of proof
on the city, and had said that Killits and his press were
unfair to the people, winding up "impeach Killits." I.
confess that I cannot find in all this or in the evidence
in the case anything that would have affected a mind of
reasonable fortitude, and still less can I find there anything that obstructed the administration of, justice in
any sense that I possibly can give, to those words.
In the elaborate opinion that was delivered by Judge
Killits to justify the judgment it is said "In this matter
the record shows that the court endured the News-Bee's
attacks upon suitors before it and upon the court itself, and
carried' all the embarrassment inevitable from these
publications, for nearly six months before moving to
vindicate its independence." It appears to me that this
statement is enough to show that there was no emergency,
that there was nothing that warranted a finding that the
administration of justice was obstructed, or a resort to
this summary proceeding, but that on the contrary when
the matter was over, the judge thought that the "consistently unfriendly attitude against the court,". and the
fact that the publications tended "to arouse distrust and
dislike of the court," were sufficient to justify this information and a heavy fine. They may have been, but not,
I think, in this form of trial. I would go as far as any man
in favor of the sharpest and most summary enforcement
of order in Court and obedience to decrees, but when there
is no need for immediate action contempts are like any
other breach of law and should be dealt with as the law

