OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

247 U. S.

MARIN, AS RECEIVER OF THE AMERICAN BISCUIT COMPANY OF CROOKSTON, v. AUGEDAHL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF CASS COUNTY, STATE OF
NORTH DAKOTA.
No. 227.

Submitted March 18, 1918.-Decided May 20, 1918.

Refusal of a state court to respect a sister state judgment upon the

ground that the court rendering it exceeded its jurisdiction under its
own constitution and laws, presents a federal question based on
the full faith and edit clause and the supplementary legislation of
Congress.

The Minnesota, constitution, Art. 10, § 3, in providing for stockhdlders' liability, excepts corporations organized for carrying on
manufacturing business. Held:
(1) That the exception goes not to the jurisdiction but only to
the merits in proceedings to sequester the assets of a local corporation and assess stockholders to pay its debts, under Rev. Laws, 1905,
§§ 3173, 3184-3187; and that an order of assessment, made in such
proceedings by the proper Minnesota court, of general jurisdiction,
which in other respects has acquired jurisdiction over the corporation, and hrough it over the shareholders, necessarily involves a
determination that the corporation is not of the excepted class, and
in that respect is in Minnesota conclusive against collateral attack
by a shareholder, whether or not he was personally a party to the
proceedings.
(2) That like force must be given such order in an action brought by
the receiver, appointed in such proceedings,to enforce the assessment
against a shareholder in the courts of another State, and that a refusal of those courts to be bound by it, upon the ground- that the
corporation was of the class excepted by the Minnesota constitution, and erroneously treating this exception as jurisdictional, fails to
accord the due faith and credit to which the order is entitled under
the Federal Constitution and laws.
32 N. Dak. 536, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

MARIN t,. AUGEDAHL.
-ff2.

143

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. Edward Engerud and Mr. A. A. Miller for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. Emerson H. Smith, Mr. A. W. Fowler and Mr. L. L.
Twichell for defendant in error:
The decision of the court below, based purely on the
construction of the constitution and statutes of Minnesota, in the absence of any settled construction by the
courts of that State duly pleaded, raises no federal question. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Melton, 218
U. S. 36.
In holding that the company was in the manufacturing
business, in the sense of the Minnesota constitution, the
court below but decided a question of local law, not reviewable here (Stone v. Southern Illinois Bridge Co., 206
U. S. 267; New Orleans Debenture Redemption Co. v.
Louisiana, 180 U. S. 320; Great Western Telegraph Co. v.
Purdy, 162 U. S. 329), and decided it correctly. [Citing
Minnesota cases..]
The full faith and credit clause and supplementary
act of Congress do not bar inquiry into the jurisdiction
behind the Minnesota judgment. Thompson v. Whitman,
18 Wall. 457; Andrews v. Andrews, 188 U. S. 14; National
Exchange Bank v. Wiley, 195 U. S. 257; Ward v. Joslin,
186 U. S. 142.
By the express terms of the Minnesota law the district
court can only proceed when the corporat)on is one whose
stockholders have a liability. And this would be true
even in the absence of the express provision, for the reason
that the object is to enforce stockholders' liability. Concededly in the case at bar the only liability sought to be
enforced is the alleged superadded liability of defendant.
Since the Biscuit Company's is a manufacturing business,
no superadded liability existed; the defendant and other
stockholders were not liable to assessment because there
was no liability to assess; there was no subject-matter in

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

existence upon which the jurisdiction of the Minnesota
court could operate; and therefore the order of assessment was rendered wholly without jurisdiction of any
subject-matter and is null and void.
We concede that, given a corporation in which there is
superadded liability, the jurisdiction of the corporation
gives jurisdiction df the stockholders to the extent of making the order of assessment conclusive as to the necessity
for and the amount of the assessment, even though no
service of any kind was made on nonresident stockholders.
But there must first exist a superadded liability upon which
to base the assessment. The order of assessment has the
conclusive effect provided by the act only when the court
has jurisdiction to order an assessment. In all of the
cases cited by plaintiff in error, the corporation in question-was one in which there was a superadded liability
and hence the court clearly had jurisdiction to enter the
order of assessment.
MR. JUSTICE VAN

DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action at law in North -Dakota by a receiver of an insolvent Minnesota corporation to enforce
against one of its stockholders an order of a Minnesota
court laying an assessment on the stockholders generally.
The defendant prevailed because the North Dakota court
was of opinion that the order laying the assessment was
made in the absence of such jurisdiction as was essential
to bind him, 32 N. Dak. 536; and the question for decision
here is whether that court gave to the laws and proceedings in Minnesota the full faith and credit to which
they are entitled under the Constitution and laws of the
United States. See Great Western Telegraph Co. v. Purdy,
162 U. S. 329; Tilt v. Kelsey, 207 U. S. 43, 51.
Under the law of Minnesota, where an execution on a

MARIN v. AUGEDAHL.
142.

Opinion of the Court.

judgment against a corporation of that State is returned
unsatisfied, the court, in a suit by the judgment creditor,
may sequestrate the property of the corporation, appoint
a receiver of the same, cause the property to be sold and
apply the proceeds to the payment of the receivership
expenses and the corporate debts. And where in such a
suit the receiver presents a petition asserting that "any
constitutional, statutory or other liability of stockholders'
exists, and that resort thereto is necessary, the court must
appoint a time for a hearing on the petition and cause
such notice thereof as it deems proper to be given by publication or otherwise. If from the evidence presented at
the hearing, including such as may be produced by any
creditor or stockholder appearing in person or by attorney,
it appears that there is a liability of stockholders and that
the available assets are not sufficient to pay the expenses
and debts, the court is required to make an order ratably
assessing the stockholders on account of such liability
and to direct that the assessment be paid to the receiver.
If payment be not made, the-duty is laid on the receiver
of enforcing the same by actions against the defaulting
stockholders, "whether resident or non-resident, and
wherever found." The court's order is expressly made
"conclusive as to all matters relating to the amount,
propriety, and necessity of the assessment." Rev. Laws,
1905, §§ 3173, 3184-3187.
According to a settled line of local decisions the proceeding on the receiver's petition for an assessment on the
stockholders is not an independent suit, but simply a
step in the original sequestration suit, Ueland v.-Haugan,
70 Minnesota, 349; and the conclusive effect of the court's
order is not dependent on the personal presence of the
stockholders, because they are so far in privity with the
corporation as to be represented by it, and a judgment
against it is in effect a judgment against them. Hanson
v. Davison, 73 Minnesota, 454, 462; Town of Hinckley v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

Kettle River R. R. Co., 80 Minnesota, 32, 39. But while
the order is conclusive "as to all matters relating to the
amount, propriety, and necessity of the assessment"matters which concern all stockholders alike-, it leaves open
the questions whether a particular person is a stockholder or holds the number of shares attributed to him,
whether he has discharged his liability or has a claim which
may be set off against the assessment, and whether he
has any other defense which is "personal to himself."
Straw & 'Ellsworth Co. v. Kilbourne, Co., 80 Minnesota,
125, 136.
As so applied, the Minnesota law has been sustained by
this court against various claims that as to stockholders
it infringes the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment; and we have also recognized and enforced
the duty of courts of other States, under the due faith and
credit clause of the Constitution and the legislation of
Congress on that subject, to give effect to orders of
Minnesota courts making assessments under that law, al-'
though the stockholders were not personally made parties to the suits wherein the orders were made. Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516; Converse v. Hamilton,
224 U. S. 243; Selig v. Hamilton, 234 U. S. 652. And see
Royal Arcanum v. Green, 237 U. S. 531, 543-545.
The order with which we here are concerned was made
by a Minnesota court in a sequestration suit against a
Minnesota corporation. Besides being a court of general
jurisdiction, both at law and in equity, the court making
the order had full jurisdiction of that suit. The suit was
'oegun by a judgment creditor after an execution on his
judgment was returned unsatisfied. The defendant
corporation had its principal place of business in the
county where the suit was begun, and was brought into
he suit by due service of process. Thus much is not
questioned. Nor is it questioned that a receiver was
appointed, or that by a petition in the suit he sought an

MARIN v. AUGEDAHL.
142.

Opinion of the Court.

assessment on the stockholders, or that public notice of
the hearing on the petition was given as the court directed, or that there was a hearing as contemplated. But
it is insisted that the court was without jurisdiction to
make the assessment and that in consequence the order
is open to collateral attack. In support of this contention
it is said that in making the assessment the court evidently proceeded on the mistaken assumption that the
corporation was one on whose stockholders a liability was
imposed by § 3 of article 10 of the state constitution,'
whereas in truth the corporation was one of a class whose
stockholders were excepted from the operation of that
provision. But is this anything other than saying that
the court erred in ruling on a matter of substantive law
regularly presented to it for decision in a pending suit.?
The constitutionalprovision does no more than to declare
a general rule of liability and to except therefrom stockholders of a certain class of corporations. It does not
purport to deal with the jurisdiction of courts-their
power to hear and determine-, but only to prescribe in
a general way the relative rights of stockholders and
creditors. It therefore must be taken as going to the
merits rather than to the jurisdiction. The Minnesota
courts evidently so regard it; and they also treat the
question whether a particular corporation belongs to one
class or another as a matter the decision of which in a
suit against the corporation is binding on the stockholders
in subsequent litigation with the latter. Merchants NationaZ Bank v. Minnesota Thresher Manufacturing Co.,
90 Minnesota, 144, 149.
Four Minnesota cases are cited as making against these
views, but we do not so understand them, In Dwinnell
v. Kramer, 87 Minnesota, 392, a policyholder in an in"Each stockholder, in any corporation, excepting those organized
for the purpose of carrying on any kind of manufacturing or mechanical
business, shall be liable to the amount of stock held or owined by him."
I

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

solvent mutual fire insurance company, against whom
a general assessment on the policyholders was sought to
be enforced, successfully defended on the ground that his
policy did not conform to the mutual plan, but was an
"ordinary contract of insurance" issued on receipt of a
cash premium. The defense plainly was personal to him.
Swing v. Humbird, 94 Minnesota, 1, arose under an Ohio
law and not the law of Minnesota. An assessment made
in Ohio on the policyholders of an insolvent fire insurance
company was sought to be enforced in Minnesota, and
the defendant prevailed because his policy had been fully
paid for and had' terminated prior to the assessment.
That also was a personal defense. In Swing v. Red River
Lumber Co., 105 Minnesota, 336, an attempt was made. to
enforce a similar Ohio assessment, but it failed for the
reason, among others, that when the defendant's policy
was issued the insurance company was doing business in
Minnesota in violation of the laws of that State,-a
matter which was personal to him and to other Minnesota
policyholders if there were such. In Finch, Van Slyck &
McConville v. Vanasek, 132 Minnesota, 9, there was a
direct appeal from an order levying an assessment on
stockholders in a sequestration suit. The character of the
corporation was not in controversy, and the "only controverted question before the [trial] court was the amount
to be levied.". There also was a question in the appellate
court as to whether the trial should have been to a jury.
With this in mind, it seems plain that what was said can
have no particular bearing here.
Had the Minnesota court in this instance held that the
corporation was in the excepted class and then denied the
receiver's petition, is it not certain that the order, if neither
vacated nor reversed, would have settled conclusively
the non-existence of the asserted liability? And if in a
subsequent suit the receiver or the creditors represented
-by him had again asserted such a liability on the part of

MARIN
142.

,.

AUGEDAHL.

Opinion of the Court.

the stockholders, is there any doubt that the latter could
have relied safely on the order as a prior adjudication in
their favor? The answers seem obvious. Charged with
the duty, as the court was, of ascertaining whether there
was any liability to be enforced, it was its province to consider and decide every question which was an'element in
that problem, including the one of whether the corporation was in the excepted class. That question required
solution and the power to soh e it was lodged in the court.
The court did solve it, for, as is said in Neff v. Lamm, 99
Minnesota, 115, 117, the order making the assessment is
"necessarily based upon a determination that the corporation is of the class whose stock is assessable, and not of
the excepted class." Whether the decision Was right or
wrong is not open to discussion here. If wrong it was subject to correction on proper application to the court which
made it, or on appeal, but it was not void or open to collateral attack. Deposit Bank v. Frankfort, 191 U. S. 499,
510, 512; Noble v. Union River Logging R. R. Co., 147
U. S. 165, 172-174; Dowell v. Applegate, 152 U. S. 327,
340; In re First National Bank, 152 Fed. Rep. 64, 68-70.
Of course, it was the duty of the court to have due regard
for the exception in the constitutional provision because
of its bearing on the merits; and if proper effect was not
given to it an error of law was committed, but nothing
more. The true view of the subject is indicated in the
following excerpts from our opinion in Fauntleroy v. Lum,
210 U. S. 230, 234, 237:
"No doubt it sometimes may be difficult to decide
whether certain words in a statute are directed to jurisdiction or to merits, but the distinctibn between the two
is plain. One goes to the power, the other only to the duty
of. the court. Under the common law it is the duty oi a
court of general jurisdiction not to enter a judgment upon
a parol promise made without consideration; but it has
power to do it, and, if it does, the judgment is unimpeacha-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

ble, unless reversed. Yet a statute could be framed that
would make the'power, that is, the jurisdiction of the court
dependent upon whether there was a consideration or not.
Whether a given statute is intended simply to establish a
rule of substantive law, and thus to define the duty of the
court, or is meant to.limit its power, is a question of construction and common sense. When it affects a court of
general jurisdiction and deals with a matter upon which
that court must pass, we naturally are slow to read ambiguous words, as meaning to leave the judgment open to
dispute, or as intended to do more than to fix the rule by
which the court should decide." '
"A judgment is conclusive as to all the media'concludendi, United States v. California & Oregon Land Co.,
192 U. S. 355; and it needs no authority to show that it
cannot be impeached either in or out of the State by
showing that it was based-upon a mistake of law."
Whether the stockholder against whom the order is
.here sought to be enforced was personally a party to the
suit in which it was made does not appear; nor is it material. Under the rule in Minnesota, as also the general
rule, he was sufficiently represented by the corporation to
be bound by the order in so far as it determined the character and insolvency of the corporation and other matters
affecting the propriety of a general assessment such as
was made. This court frequently has recognized and
applied that rule. In Hawkins v. Glenn, 131 U. S. 319,
an assessment ordered by a Virginia court having the
corporation before it was sustained as against stockholders residing in another State and not personally
brought into the suit, the ground of decision being that
"a stockholder is so far an integral part of the corporation
that, in the view of the law, he is privy to the proceedings
touching the body of which he is a member." Of similar
import are Sanger v. Upton, 91 U. S. 56; Glenn v. Liggett,
135 U. S. 533; Great Western Telegraph Co. v. Purdy, 162

MARIN r. AUGEDAHL.
142.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 329, 336; Hancock National Bank v. Farnum, 176
U. S. 640; Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516, 532;
Royal Arcanum v. Green, 237 U. S. 531, 544.
No doubt the order might be attacked collaterally by
showing an absence of jurisdiction of person or subjectmatter. The cases of Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall.
457, and NationalExchange Bank v. Wiley, 195 U. S. 257,
hold nothing more. Neither gives any warrant for saying
that the order may be attadced collaterally by showing
that error was committed in deciding the merits. One
dealt with a judgment by a court having no jurisdiction
whatever over the subject-matter, and the other dealt
with a personal judgment rendered without service of
process or personal appearance, but confessed under a
warrant of attorney which did not cover it-in other
words, a judgment rendered without jurisdiction of the
person through a representative or otherwise. Both are
inapposite here. By the law of its organization the Minnesota court was empowered to take cognizance of, hear
and determine, the suit to sequestrate and the receiver's
petition for an assessment. Thus it had jurisdiction of
the subject-matter. Cooper v. Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308,
316. The corporation was before it in virtue of process
duly served, and the stockholders, as has been said, were
represented by the corporation. "Thus there was jurisdiction of the person.
Under these circumstances, the order is entitled, under
the Constitution and laws of the United States, to the
same faith and credit in the courts of North Dakota as
by law or usage are given to such an order in the courts
of Minnesota. Hancock National Bank v. Farnum, 176
U. S. 640; Converse v. Hamilton, 224 U. S. 243. In Minnesota, as before said, it is conclusive of all matters relatiig to the propriety of the assessment, including the
questions of the character and insolvency of the corporation, and therefore it should have been held similarly

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
CLAK E,

J., dissenting.

247 U. S.

conclusive in North Dakota. The court of that State declined to regard it as determining the character of the
corporation, and so failed to give it the faith and credit
to which it is entitled.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE, dissenting.
The importance of the question involved in this case
leads me to state somewhat fully my reasons for dissenting from the decision of the court.
The plaintiff in error, as receiver of the American
Biscuit Company of Crookston, anvinsolvent corporation,
organized under the laws of the State of Minnesota, instituted suit in a district court of North Dakota against
the defendant in error, a stockholder in the company, to
recover upon an order, treated in the record as a judgment,
entered by an inferior, a district court of the State of
Minnesota, which is described in the amended complaint
as follows:
"The said court
made an order in said proceedings ordering and assessing against each and every
share of the capital stock of said American Biscuit Company of Crookston the sum of one hundred dollars ($100)
and against the persons and parties liable as such stockholders
and further ordering that each and
every party or person liable as such stockholder pay to
this plaintiff as Receiver of said insolvent corporation the
sum of one hundred dollars ($100) for each and every share
of stock on which he should be liable," etc.
It is further alleged that the defendant is the owner of
one share of stock of the said company of the par value of
$100 and that he has not paid to the court the assessment
made.
The complaint sets out in detail the statutes under
which the Minnesota court proceeded and alleges that the
Biscuit Company.

MARIN r. AUGEDAHL.
142.

CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

was em.
"By its Articles of Incorporation .
powered to manufacture and sell biscuits, crackers, candies, confections, cereals, and other kindred products, or
supplies (necessary) or component parts thereof, and ["to
purchase or own," probably omitted] the machinery,
fixtures, equipment and supplies necessary for the manufacturing and dealing in the same . . . and to
maintain and operate stores and depots for the sale and
disposal of its products and ;he purchase of its supplies,
and in general to do and perform all matters and things
necessary and proper in the successful conducting of its
said business."
The District Court of North Dakota sustained a demurrer to the complaint on the ground that it did not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, and its
judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State.
The constitution of Minn6sota in effect at the time of
the transactions involved in the case contains the following provision:
Article 10, § 3. "Each stockholder in any corporation,
excepting those organized for the purpose of carrying on
any kind of manufacturing or mechanical business, shall
be liable tp the amount of stock held or owned by him."
It is admitted that this is the only warrant for the
Minnesota order, which was for the amount of the personal or double liability of stockholders.
The theory on which the North Dakota courts proceeded was that the complaint showed that .the Biscuit
Company was a manufacturing corporation such that no
double liability could attach to its stockholders, and that
therefore the Minnesota court did not have jurisdiction,
under the constitution and laws of that State, to enter an
order which- precluded the defendant from showing that
he was not, and could not be, liable to a valid double
liability assessment.
The distinction between provisions of law which are

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

247 U. S.

jurisdictional and those which are not, has not been, perhaps cannot be, made the subject of hard and fast definition. A much quoted statement is that the distinction,
while difficult of application, is between "A rule of law for
the guidance of the court and a limit set to its power."
InterstateCommerce Commissionv. NorhrnPacificRy. Co.,
216 U. S. 538, 544; Fauntleroyv. Lum, 210 U. S. 230, 235.
In the opinion of the court it is said that the district
court which entered the order sued on is a court of general
jurisdiction. As a general statement this may be accepted,
but when that court entered the, order we are here considering it was not acting as a court of general jurisdiction,
but,--as we shall see, from the decisions of the Supreme
Court of Minnesota,--as a statutory court of narrowly
limited powers, authorized to enter orders "conclusive"
in specifically defined respects. As a court of general
jurisdiction, and independent of the statute under which
the court was acting, its receiver could not have maintained this action in North Dakota. Hale v. Allinson,
188 U. S. 56.
In the case at bar we are dealing with a constitutional
provision, obviously intended for the encouragement of
manufactures in the State of Minnesota, which places it.
beyond the power of the legislature to attach double
liability to holddrs of stock in any manufacturing corpoI
ration organized under the laws of that State.
Shall it be said that this, clearly a limitation on the
power of the legislature, is not also a limitation on the
power of the Minnesota courts? That it is a jurisdictional
limitation upon the legislature but was only a rule for the
guidance of the court, the jurisdiction of which, when entering the order, involved, was determined by the act of.
the legislature? It is not merely a rule to guide courts in
determining whether stockholders in manufacturing corportations are subject to double liability, for it prohibits
both the legislature and the courts from imposing such,

MARIN r. AUGEDAHL.
142.

CwRxaE, J., dissenting.

liability upon stockholders in such corporations under
any circumstances and is therefore a limitation upon the
power of courts as certainly as it is a limitation on legislative power.
The validity, in a proper case, of such an order as was
entered by the Minnesota court, and the right of such.a
receiver to maintain a suit upon it in a foreign State to
collect from stockholders resident therein, have both been
sustained by this court (Ben heimer v. Converse, 206 U. S.
516; Converse v. Hamilton, 224 U. S. 243). But in each
of these cases it was expressly found that the insolvent
company .was within the general terms of §3, Art. 10,
of the Minnesota constitution, and that therefore personal liability attached to its stockholders.
NotwAihstanding this fact, the defendant in error con'tends that the Minnesota court was without jurisdiction
to render the order sued upon, and argues in substance
as follows:
(1) That the Minnesota court had authority to render
such a "judgment" only as against stockholders in other
than corporations organized for manufacturing or mechanical business.
This is not contested by the plaintiff in error in argument, but the answer, to it, relied upon, is that the first
question confronting the Minnesota court hearing the
petition of creditfrs for the assessment was whether the
Biscuit Company was a corporation whose stockholders
were subject to double liability; that the order making
the assessment could have been rendered only upon a
holding that it was such a corporation; and that such an
order, not appealed from, is conclusive as to this question,
upon all stockholders.
(2) That the character of the corporation as pleaded
shows it to have been a manufacturing company, that
therefore no personal liability attached to its stockholders
and that thereby the Minnesota- court is shown to have

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
CLARKE,

J., dissentig.

247 IT. S.

been without jurisdiction to render the "judgment" sued
upon.
This contention also is not contested by the plaintiff in
error, who contents himself, again, with relying upon the
implication springing from the rendering of the Minnesota
order.
It seems clear enough that a corporation "empowered
to manufacture and sell biscuits, crackers, candies," etc.,
and to own and use "the machinery, fixtures, equipment
and supplies necessary for the manufacturing and dealing
in the same" must be classed as one "organized for the
purpose of carrying on" a "manufacturing business."
But the Supreme Court of Minnesota has placed this
conclusion beyond discussion.
In Senour Mfg. Co. v. Chureh Paint & Mfg. Co., 81
Minnesota, 294, it is held:
"In proceedings to enforce the individual -liability of
stockholders of a corporation [for the debts of the corporation], the Articles of Incorporation axe the sole criterion
as to the purposes for which the corporation was formed."
And corporations organized for purposes stated as follows
have been held by. that court to be manufacturing corporations such that they came within the constitutional
exception, so that personal liability did not attach to
holders of stock in them, viz., companies organized for:
"The manufacture of painters' materials and supplies,"
Senour Case, supra; "For the manufacturing or brewing
of lager beer, and'selling and disposing of same," Hastings
Malting Co. v. Iron Range -Brewing Co., 65 Minnesota,
28; "For the manufacture of cloth ol' every description
and the sale of cloth so manufactured," Nicollet National
Bank v. Frisk-Turner Co., 71 Minnesota, 413; "To produce and create water, steam and other motive power for
transmission and use as may be desirable for any legitmate
purpose," Cuyler v. City Power -Co., 74 Minnesota, 22;
"For the purpose of generating electricity for distribution'

AIARIN v. AUGEDAHL.
142.

COx.LRKE, J., dissenting.

to the public,"
Vencedor Investment Co. v. Highland
Canal & Power Co., 125 Minnesota, 20.
The test prescribed by the Supreme Court of Minnesota
is, Whether the entire business which the corporation is
authorized to engage in is manufacturing and disposing
of its products and such incidental business as may reasonably be necessary for the purposes of its organization.
Hastings Malting Co. v. Iron Range Brewing Co., 65 Minnesota, 28, 31. Again, and cbviously, in Nicollet National
Bank v. Frisk-Turner Co., 7 Minnesota, 413, it was held
that the buying of raw materials and the selling of manufactured products are within the scope of the incidental
powers of a manufacturing corporation, and do not constitute doing business other than the manufacturing
business authorized. Clearly the Biscuit Company meets
the constitutional requirement thus interpreted.
The difference between the case at bar and the Bernheimer and Converse Cases, supra, is manifest and fundamental. These two cases were concerned with the affairs
of the same corporation, and the Supreme Court of Minneso a held that on their face the articles of incorporation
of the company provided for the purchase of the capital
stock, evidences of 'indebtedness and assets of another
corporation and also for a manufacturing purpose; that
the former business was not incidental to the latter and
that, therefore, the .company not being organized exclu-"
sively for a manufacturing purpose, did n6t come within
the constitutional'exception and that the personal liability attached to the stockholders. With this conclusion this court expressed itself satisfied in both cases.
The question remains whether, in the proceeding in
which the order relied upon was entered, the Minnesota
court had jurisdiction to render and actually did render
an order such that a stockholder when sued upon it, either
in Minnesota or in another State, would not have open to
him the defense that the insolveilt corporation was of

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
CLARKE,

J., disseating.

247 U. S.

such character thatdouble liability did not attach to the
owners of its stock.
That the court did not have such jurisdiction and did
not enter such an order in this case seems to me clear for
the. reasons following, viz.:
In Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457, a decision obviously ".rendered on great consideration," prior decisions
dealing with the full faith and credit clause of the Coastitution were carefully reviewed, and it was there decided
that when tke question of jurisdiction is appropriately
presented the rjcord of a'judgment tendered may, constitutionally, be assailed in a collateral proceeding to enforce it in another State, even as to facts therein stated to
have beer passed upon by the court. This decision has
been repeatedly affirmed and followed, and in Nadtional
Exchange Bank v. Wiley, 195 U. S. 257, it was accepted
as authority sufficient for holding that a judgment by
confession under warrant of attorney could be collaterally
attacked in a foreign State by showing that the plaintiff
in whose favor it was rendered in an Ohio court of general
jurisdiction was not the owner of the note in suit at the
time, and that the court entering it was, therefore, without jurisdiction, although the rendering of the judgment
involved, or implied, the finding that the plaintiff was
then the oner of the note.
These authorities will suffice to illustrate' the scope of
the established rule that a judgment sued on-in a foreign
State may be shown in defense to have been entered by
the' court rendering it without jurisdiction, regardless of
the form which such judgxent may take on.
us examine the character and
With this rule in mind "'1
scope of the "order" sued-upon in this case.
.The order was entered in a special statutory proceeding
of a character such that the Supreme Court of Minnesota
has declared that it is intended to be "summary and without formal pleadings, and not controlled by all the forms

MARIN r. AUGEDAHL.
142.

CL&nxE, J., dissenting.

usually incident to judicial procedure." 132 Minnesota, 9,
12; the hearing in such cases is upon "such notice as it
[the court] deems proper, by publication or otherwise, to
be given;" upon the hearing the court "shal receive and
consider such evidence by affldavit or otherwise as may be
presented by the receiver, or by any creditor, officer, or
stockholder, appearing in person or by attorney," and the
statute expressly provides that:
"Such order shall be conclusive as to all matters relating to the 'amount, propriety, and necessity of the assessment, against all parties therein adjudged liable upon,
or on account of, any stock or shares of such corporation,
whether appearing or being represented at the hearing
or not, or having notice thereof or not." Rev. Laws, 1905,
§ 3186.
That the conclusive character of the order entered in
such a proceeding has been strictly confined by the Minnesota Supreme Court to the respects in which the statute
just quoted declares it shall be conclusive, leaving all
other defenses open to the stockholder, is shown by the
following decisions:
The act in force when the order now under discussion
was entered was passed in 1899 [Laws 1899, c. 272], and
in the following year the Supreme Court of Minnesota
sustained its constitutionality in Straw & Ellsworth Co.
v. Kilbourne Co., 80 Minnesota, 125, ' case cited with
approval by this court in both the Bernheimer and Converse Cases, supra. It was there held as follows.
"Although the court inquires into the amount 6f the
liabilities as well as to what will probably be realized out
of the assets, its sole determinationis that it is necessary
and proper that an assessment of a given amount shall
be levied against each share of stock. That, and that
only, is the ultimate issuable fact to be found by the
court.
"The plain purport of section.- .1snd 5 is that after an

OCTOBER TERIV, 1917.
CLgar,

J., dissenting.

247 U. S.

order of assessment has been duly made, and the receiver
has sued an alleged stockholder to recover upon the assessment, the order cannot be attacked in that action upon
the ground that the assessment was unnecessary or excessive, or upon the ground that the defendant was not actually a party to, or personally notified of, the heariig
upon which the assessment was made.
"But, as we have heretofore inthimated, the stockholders are not concluded in all.r espects by the determination of the court, nor is that the fair meaning of chapter
272, § 5. A person sued as a shareholder may show, if he
can, that he is not a shareholder at all, or that he is not' the
holder of so large an amount of stock as is alleged, or that
he has discharged his 'liability, or that he has a clahn
against the corporation which-he may, in law or equity,
set off against the claim or judgment in assessment, or he
may make any other defense which is personal to himself."
Again; in its latest construction of the act, in 1916, in
Finch, Van Slyck & McConville v. Vanasek, 132 Minnesota, 9, 12, the court uses this language:
"It was intended by the statute that the proceeding
should be summary and without formal pleadings, and
it is not controlled by all of the forms usually incident to
judicial procedure. The courtunder,the statute deals in
the main with probabilities, and is not authorized to determine any fact, other than that of insolvency and the amount
of the assessment to be made, which in any way precludes
the stockholders in a subsequent action brought to enforce the assessment. The assessment is but preliminary
to such an -action and therein the stockholders may present
all matters that may be available to them in defense. Straw
& Ellsworth Mnfg. Co. v. L. D. Kilbourne Boot & Shoe
Co.,' supra.
Thus is the*expression in the earlier case "He [the
stockholder] may make any other defense which is personal
to himself," interpreted in this later case as meaning

MARIN r. AUGEDAHL.
142.

CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

"All matters that may be available to them [the stockholders] in defense."
During the sixteen years between these two decisions
that court had under consideration the scope of several
such ".orders" [following the language of the act, the
court habitually refers to them as "orders" not "judgments"] and it has expressed its conclusions as follows:
In Dwinnefl v. Kramer, 87 MinnesQta, 392 (1902), in
a suit upon an assessment order, made under the act we
are considering, against the nolder of a policy in a mutual
insurance company, [There is no "difference; in principle,
in respect to the question now under consideration, between an action to recover on premium notes, when
insolvency of the company has made an Assessment on
members necessary, and ana action to enforce a stockholder's liability, constitutional or statutory," 80 Minnesota, 1341 the defense was made on demurrer that the
policy issued to the defendants "shows upon its face that
the defendants were not insured on the mutual plan, and
that the extent of their liability by the terms of the policy was the amount of the premium named therein, which
has been paid." This defense was entertained and held
valid by the court against precisely such a "judgment" as
this court now holds conclusive against a defense in principle precisely similar,-that under the contract relation
of the defendant to the corporation he was not liable for
any double liability assessment.
Again, in Swing v. Humbird, 94 Minnesota, 1 (1904),
in an action on an assessment made by the Supreme Court
of Ohio in a suit on a mutual'insurance company policy,
under a statute similar to that of Minnesota, the court
holds in the syllabus, paragraph 1:
"Such assessment is not conclusive upon'any policyholder as to the question whether his relation to the
company was such as to subject him to liability for an assessment. The judgment making the assessment is, how-

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
CL&R=,

dJ.i
ssenting.

247 U. S.

ever, conclusive as to -matters relating to the necessity
for, and the amount of, the assessment."
In the opinion the court says:
"T2e plaintiff contends, in, effect, that the ex parte decree in question is conclusive upon the defendants upon
the question-of their liability to assessment forthe losses
of the company, and that they are barred from urging the
defense pleaded in this case. The question of the conclusiveness of an assessment upon Stockholders and members of a
corporation for the payment of its liabilities made by a
court having jurisdiction to.wind up its affairs is too well
settled in this State to justifj any extended discussion of it.
Where the court has such jurisdiction of a corporation,
its- order or decree making an assessment upon its stockholders or members without personal notice to them is
conclusive as to all matters relating to the necessity for
making the assessment, and the amount thereof. But it
does not conclude any stockholder or member as to the question whether his relation to the corporation was such as to
subject him to liabilityfor an assessment, or as to any other
defense phrsonal to himself," citing cases. .
. "The
assessment in the case last cited (Dwinnell v. Kramer,
supra) was made by one of the courts of our own state,
yet effect was given-to the claim of the defendant that by
virtue of his policy contract he .was not liable to assess-.
ment."
Here again thie same character of defense urged in the
instant case was entertaied.and sustained, viz; That,
notwithstanding the order or judgment, the policies on
which the assessment -Was entered were "of a class which
imposed no liability upon the holders thereof beyond the
amount of the cash deposit required." In the case at bar
the character of the corporation is such that no double
liability can constitutionally be imposed on any of its
stockholders.
Again, in Swing v..RJ River Lumber Co.,-105 Minne-

MARIN v. AUGEDAHL.
142.

CiAna,

J., dissenting.

sota, 336 (1908), the court had under consideration an
assessment upoi the policyholders of a mutual insurance
company, entered by the Ohio Supreme Court, under a
statute similar to that of Minnesota, and the court said:
"The last contention of the plaintiff to be considered
is to the effect that the decree of the supreme court of Ohio
making the assessment is conclusive upon the defendant
upon the question of its liability to be assessed for the
losses of the company, and that the trial court in this case,
by refusing to give such conclusive effect to the decree,
'refused to give full faith and credit to the judicial proceedings of the state of Ohio, as required by section 1,
art. 4, of the federal constitution. The decree was ex
parte as respects the defendant, it having been made without notice to the defendant. The decree, then, the court
having jurisdiction of the corporation, was conclusive as
to all.matters relating to the necessity for and the amount
of the assessment; but it is not conclusive as to the question
whether the contract relations of an alleged member. to the
company were such as to subject him to liabilityfor the assessment. It did not, nor could it, deprive a member of
the company of any defense going to show that he was
not liable to be assessed for the losses of the company.
Great Western Tel. Co. v. Purdy, 162 U. S.329; Swing v.
Western Lumber Co., 205 U. S.275."
These cases, made complete by Finch, Van Slyck &
McConville V. Vanasek, supra, decided in 1916, give us a
line of decision, not only general in terms but specific in
application, consistently maintained for sixteen, years,
which, it seems to me, makes it very clear that if the suit
commenced in North Dakota, which we are considering,
had been instituted in a Minnesota court it would have
been open to the defendent stockholder to show, in defense,
that his relations to the company were such as not to subject him to liability (94 and 105 Minnesota, supra) and
that, therefore, the opinion of the court gives to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
CxL.&R,

J., dissenting.

247 U. S.

"order"

-

of An inferior court of Minnesota a faith and
credit in North Dakota which it would not have had in
the State of its origin, a result which I venture to think
is unsound in principle, anomalous in our judicial history
and likely to lead to most unfortunate results.
The opinion of the court concedes that, notwithstanding this 'fjudgment," it was open to the defendant stockholder, in the North Dakota case, to show, if such were
the fact, that he was not a stockholder at all; that he
owned but half as many shares as was alleged; that he had
paid the amount assessed against him in whole or in part,
or that he had aset-off to apply on the amount of the assessment. But, nevertheless, the court concludes that he
cannot be permitted to show, as was true, that he was not,
and could never have been, indebted to the receiyer on
the liability relied upon, -and this, notwithstanding that
the latest decision of the -Supreme Court of Minnesota,
construing the statute of its own State, holds, as quoted
above, that in such a suit .the stockholders "may present
all matters that may be available to them in defense,"
and notwithstanding the fact that the earlier cases also
held that such a4 order is not conclusive as to "whether
the .contract. "eladi6ns of. an alleged -hiember to the company were such as to subject him to liability for the assess-

mient," (94 and 1057AM~,esota, supra). When we add
that the "'holding
of 4,lus court in the.Bernheimer Case,
repeled in the Converse Case, supra, was that "It may be
reghrded-as settled that upon acquiring stock the stockholder [in a Minnesota corporation] incurred an obligation arising from ,the constitutional provision, contractual
in its nature," we are seemingly confronted with the conclusion that the decisions of a Supreme Court of a State,
construing its own statutes, of the character such as we
have here' -zashv. Con, 109 U. S. 371, 378) are no longer
of controlling influence on this court but may be ignored
in its discretion.

