U. S. GLUE CO. v. OAK CREEK.
310.

321

Syllabus.

lands lost or relinquished by the grantee no suit should
be maintained nor recovery had either for the lands or
their value, no matter through what fraud or mistake
they might be acquired, would be an entirely different
matter, and would offer a premium for future wrongdoing,
the extent of which could not easily be foreseen. We
cannot attribute such a purpose to Congress without
plainer language than is c6ntained in this act.
For the reasons stated, we hold that the proviso is not
a bar to the present suit, brought to annul a patent
applied for and issued long after its enactment; and the
decree under review is
Reversed, and the cause remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
MR-. JU ciCE McREYNoLDs took no part in fae consideration or decision of this case.

UNITED STATES GLUE COMPA2Y v. TOWN OF
OAK CREEK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF MILWAUKEE

COUNTY,

STATE OF WiSCONSIN.

No. 233. Argued March 21, 1918.-Decided June 3, 1918.
A State, in laying a general income tax upon the gains and profits
of a domestic corporation, may include in the computation the net
income derived from transactions in interstate commerce, without
contravening the commerce clause of the Constitution.
So held in respect of the Wisconsin income tax law (Laws 1911, c.
658), as applied to income from sales to customers outside the State
of goods delivered flom the company's factory within it, and from

322

-OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Plantiff in Error.

247 U. S.

sales to such customers and-shipment from the company's branches
in other States of goods previously made at its factory within the
State and sent to such branches.
161 Wisconsin, 211, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George Lines, with whom Mr. Willet M. Spooner
and Mr. Louis Quarles -were on the briefs, for plaintiff
in error, in support of the proposition that a tax on
income of property or, business is a tax upon the property or business itself, cited Dobbins v. Erie County
Commrs., 16 Pet. 435; Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113;
Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449; Pollock v. Farmers'
Loan' & Truo Co,;,157 U. S. 429; 158 U. S. 601; Crew
Lev;*6 Co, v, Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292; Postal Telegraph Cqabte Co. v; Adams, 155 U. S. 688, 695; Cook v.
Penn.ylvania, 97 U. S. 566; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196; Ratterman v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 127 U. S.411; Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Alabama, 132 U. S. 472; Oklahoma v. Wells, Fargo& Co.,
223 U. S.298; Philadelphia& Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326, 336; Western Union TelegraphCo.
v. Kansas,216 U. S. 1, 27. The fact that the law is general and lays a tax upon income within the State's power will not justify the attempt
by virtfie of it to tax income which is not taxable by the
State., Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvainia, supra; Galveston,
Harrisburg & San Antonio Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S.
21.7, 228; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Houston, East & West Texas Ry. Co. v. United States, 234
TI S. 342; America'n. Express Co. v. Caldwell, 244
U. S. 617; Souther-z Ry. Co. v. United States, 222
U. S. 20.
Mi. H. J.' Killilea and Mr. Walter Drew for aetendant
in error.

U. S. GLUE CO. v. OAK CREEK.
321.

Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTIcE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The judgment brought up by this writ of error was
entered by the Circuit Court of Milwaukee County upon
the mandate of the Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin issued on reversal of a previous judgment of the
circuit court in an action brought by plaintiff in error
to recover the sum of $2,835.38, paid under protest
as part of a tax assessed and levied by the taxing authorities of the State upon plaintiff's income for the year 1911,
under c. 658, Wisconsin Laws 1911. The Supreme Court
overruled plaintiff's contention that the portion of the tax
that was ii controversy, having 1feen' imposed upon
income derived by plaintiff from interstate. '-commerce,
amounted to a burden upon that commerce, contravening
the commerce clause of § 8 of Article 1 of the Constitution
of the United States. 161 Wisconsin, 211. -And this is
the sole question presented for our consideraiion.
The act, which was passed under the authority of an
amendment to the state constitution (Income Tax Cases,
148 Wisconsin, 456), imposes a tax upon incomes received
during the year ending December 31, 1911, and annually
thereafter; defines the term "income" as including (a)
rent of real estate; (b) interest derived from money loaned
or invested in notes, mortgages, bonds, or other evidences
of debt; (c) wages, salaries, and the like; (d) dividends or
profits derived from stock, or from the purchase and sale
of property acquired within three years previous, or from
any business whatever; (e) royalties derived from the
possession or use of franchises or legalized priyileges; and
(f) all other income derived from any source, except such
as is exempted. There is a provision, "That any person
engaged in business within and without the state shall,
with respect to income other than that derived from rentals, stocks, bonds, securities or evidences of indebtedness,
be taxed only upon that proportion of such ifieome as is.

OCTOBER TERMI 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

derived from business transacted and property located
within the state," which is to be determined in a particular
manner specified in § 1770b, as far as applicable.
Corporations are allowed to make certain deductions
from gross income, including amounts paid for personal
services of officers and employees and other ordinary
expenses paid out of income in the maintenance and operation -of business, and- property, including a reasonable
allowance for deprediation; losses not -compensated for by
insurance or otherwise, taxes, etc. These need not be
further mentioned, beyond saying that the intent and
necessary effect of the act is-to tax not gross receipts but
net income; that from the stipulated facts it appears that
the tax in question was imposed upon plaintiff's net income;
and that this is in accord with the construction of the act
adopted by the supreme couyt of the State in this and other
cases. State ex rel. Manitovoc Gas Co, v. Wisconsin Tax
Commission., 161 Wisconsin, 111, 116; United States Glue
Co,v. Oak Creek (the present case), 161 Wisconsin, 211,221;
State ex rel. Bundy v. Nygaard, 163 Wisconsin, 307, 310.
In order to determine.what part of the income of a
corporation engaged In business within and- without the
State (other than that derived from rentals, stocks, bonds,securities, etc.) is to be taxed as derived from business
transacted and property located within the State, reference is had to. a formula prescribed by another statute
[§ 1770b, subsec. 7, par. (e) of Wisconsin Stats.] for apportioning the capital stock',of foreign corporations, under
which the gross business in dollars of the corporation in
the State, added to the -value in dollars of its property
in the State, is made the numerator of a fraction of
which the denominator consists of the total gross business- in dollars of the corporation both within and
without the State, added to the value in dollars of its
property within and without the State. The resulting
fraction is taken by the income tax law as representing the

U. S. GLUE CO. i'. OAK CREEK.
321.

Opinion of the Court.

proportion of the income which is deemed to be derived
from business transacted and property located within the
State. This formula was applied in apportioning plaintiff's net "business income" for the year 1911, and upon
the portion thus attributed to the State, plus the income
from rentals, stocks, bonds. etc., the tax in question was
levied.
Plaintiff was and is a corporation organized under the
laws of the State of Wisconsin, having its principal office
and place of business in the Towm of Oak Creek, where it
conducted an extensive manufacturing plant, selling its
products throughout the State and in other States and
foreign countries. Its net "business income" in the year
1911, exclusive of that derived from rentals, stocks, bonds,
etc., and after making the deductions allowed by-the act,
amounted to about $124,000, derived from the, following
sources: (a) about 816,000 from goods sold toj'customers
within the State and delivered from its factory; (b) about
865,000 from goods sold to customers outside of the State
and delivered from its factory; (c) about $31,000 fmm
goods sold to customers outside of the State, the sales having been made and goods shipped from plaintiff's branches
iii other States, and the goods having been manufactured at
plaintiff's factory and shipped before sale to aid branches;
(d) about $7,000 from goods sold to customers outside
of the State, the sales having been made and goods
shipped from plaintiff's branches without the State, these
goods having been purchased by plaintiff outside of the
State and shipped to plaintiff's factory in the State, and
thence shipped beforesale from the factoryto the branches;
(e) about $5,000 from goods sold outside of the State, the
sales having been made and goods shipped from said
branches, and the. goods having been purchased by plaintiff outside of the State and shipped from the points of
purchase to the branches without coming into the State
of Wisconsin.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

No contentioii was made aa -o the taxability of the
income designated in item (a). Plaintiff's contention
)that items (d) and (e) were not taxable because not de,rived from property located or business transacted within
'the State was upheld by the state courts. Thus the controversy is narrowed to the (pntention, overruled by the
supreme court, that items (h)and (c) were not taxable
because derived from interstate commerce.
Stated concisely, the question is whether a State, in
levying a general income tax u2pon the gains and profits
of a domestic corporation, may include in the computation
the net income derived from transactions in interstate
commerce without contravening the commerce clause
of the Constitution of the United States.
It is settled that a State way not directly burden interstate commerce, either by Laxation or otherwise. But
a tax that only indirectly affects the profits or returns
from such commerce is not within the-rule. Thus, it was
declared in Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S.
688, 695-696: "It is settled that where by way of duties
laid on the transportation of the subjects of interstate
commerce, or on the receipts derived therefrom, or on
the occupation or business of carrying it on, a tax is levied
by a State on interstate commerce, such taxation amounts
to 'a regulation of such commerce and cannot be sustained.
But property in a State belonging to a corporation,
whether foreign or domestic, engaged in foreign or interstate commerce, may be taxed, or a tax may be imposed on the corporation on account of its property within
a State, and may take the form of a tax for the privilege
of exercising its franchises within the State, if the ascertainment of the amount is made dependent in fact on the
value of its property situated within the 'State, (the exaction, therefore, not being susceptible of exceeding the
.sum which might be leviable directly thereon,) and if
payment be not made a conditionprecedent to the right

U. S. GLUE CO. v. OAK CREEK.
321.

Opinion of the Court.

to carry on the business, but its enforcement left to the
ordinary means devised for the collection of taxes."
Again, in Atlantic & Pacific Telegraph Co. v. Philadelphia, 190 U. S. 160, 163, the court upon a review of numerous previous cases laid down certain propositions as
established, among them these: (a) that -the immunity
of an individual or corporation engaged in interstate commerce from state regulation does not prevent a State
from imposing ordinary property taxes upon property
having a situs within its territory and employed in interstate commerce; and (b) that the franchise of a corporation, although that franchise be the business of
interstate commerce, is, as a part of its property, subject to state taxation, provided at least the franchise
be not derived from the United States. See, also, St.
Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350,
365.
Yet it is obvious that taxes imposed upon property or
franchises employed in interstate commerce must be
paid from the net returns of such commerce, and diminish
them in the same sense that they are diminished by a tax
imposed upon the net returns themselves.
The distinction between direct and indirect burdens,
with particular reference to a comparison between a tax
upon the gross returns *f carriers in interstate commerce
and a general income tax imposed upon all inhabitants
incidentally affecting carriers engaged in such commerce, was t'ne subject of consideration in Philadelphia
.& Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326,
345, where the court, by Mr. Justice Bradley, said:
"The corporate franchises, the property, the business,
the income of corporations created by i- State may 'undoubtedly be taxed by the State; but in imposing such
taxes care should be taken not to interfere with.or hamper,
directly-or by indirection, interstate or foreign commerce,
or any other matter exclusively within the jurisdiction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

the Federal government." Many previous cases were
referred to.
The correct line -of distinction is so well illustrated in
two cases decided at the present term that we hardly need
go further. In Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania,245 U. S.
292, we held that a state tax upon the business of selling
goods in foreign commerce, measured -by a certain percentage of the gross transactions in such commerce, was
by its necessary effect a tax upon the commerce, and at
the same time a duty upon exports, contrary to §§ 8 and
,10 of Article I of the Constitution, since it operated to lay
a direct burden upon every transaction by withholding for
the use of the State a part of every dollar received. On the
other hand, in Peck & Co. v. Lowe, ante, 165, we held that
the Income Tax Act of October 3, 1913, c. 16, § 2, 38 Stat.
166, 172, when carried into effect by imposing an assessment upon the entire net income of a corporation, approximately three-fourths of which was derived from the export
of goods to foreign countries, did not amount to laying a
tax or duty on articles exported -within the meaning of
Art. 1, § 9, cl. 5 of the Constitution. The distinction between a direct and an indirect burden by way of tax or
duty was developed, afid it was shown that an income
tax laid generally on net incomes, not on income from exportation because of its source or in the way of discrimination, but just as it was laid on other income, and affecting only the net receipts from exportation' after all
expenses were paid and losses adjusted and the recipient
of the income was free to use it as he chose, was only an
indirect burden.
The difference in effect between a tax measured by
gross receipts and one measured by net income, recognized
by our decisions, is manifest and substantial, and it
affords a convenient and workable basis of distinction
between a direct and immediate burden upon the business affected and a charge that is only indirect and inci-

U. S. GLUE CO.
321.

'.

OAK CREEK.

329

Opinion of the Court.

dental. A tax upon gross receipts affects each transaction in proportion to its magnitude and irrespective of
whether it is profitable or otherwise. Conceivably it may
be sufficient to make the difference between profit and
loss, or to so diminish the'profit as to impede or discourage
the conduct of the commerce. A tax upon the net profits
has not the same deterrent effect, since it does not arise
at all unless a gaih is shown over and above expenses and
losses, and the tax cannbt be heavy unless the profits are
large. Such a tax, when imposed upon net incomes from
whatever source arising, is but a method of distributing
the cost of government, like a tax upon property, or upon
'franchises treated. as property; and if there be no discrimination against interstate commerce, either in the
admeasurement- of the tax or in the means adopted for
. enforcing it, it constitutes one of the ordinary and general
burdens of government, from which persons and corporations otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of the States
are not exempted by the Federal Constitution because
they happen to be engaged in eommerce among the States.
And so we hold that the Wisconsin income tax law, as
applied to the plaintiff in the case before us, can not be
deemed to be so direct a burden upon plaintiff's interstate
business as to amount to an unconstitutional interference
with or regulation of commerce among the States. It.
was measured not by the gross receipts, but by the net
proceeds from this part of plaintiff's business, along with
a like imposition upon its income, derived from other
sources, and in the same way that other coiporations
doing business within the State are taxed upon that proportion of their income derived from business transacted
and property located within the State, whatever the
nature of their business.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE WHITE concurs

in the result.

